I look forward to the day when every man will have servants. But it can't come overnight, they'll have to lift themselves up. But a day when all the Chosen will be served -- and all servants as well cared for as I know they are in my Family. That's my ideal. In the meantime I do the best I can. I look after their welfare from birth until they're called Home by Uncle. They have nothing to fear, utter security -- which they wouldn't have out in those mountains as I'm sure you know better than I. They are happy, they are never overworked -- which I am -- and they have plenty of fun, which is more than I can say! This bridge game today -- the first real fun I've had in a mo h. And they are never punished, only just enough to remind them when they. err. Have to do that, you've seen how stupid most of them ar.e. Not that I am inferring that you are. No, I tell you honestly that I think you are smart enough to take care of servants yourself, despite your skin. I'm speaking of the ordinary run of them. Honestly, Hugh, do you think they could possibly take care of them as well as I look out for them?" ( # probably not." Hugh was thinkX ing that he had heard all this before, only a few nights ago, and in almost the same words -- from Memtok. With the slight difference that Ponse did seem to be honestly fond of his servants and earnest about their welfare -- whereas the Chief Domestic had been openly contemptuous of them, even more strongly so than his barely veiled contempt for the Chosen. "No, they couldn't, most of them." "Ah! You agree with me." "No." Ponse looked pained. "Hugh, how can we have a rational discussion if you say one thing and contradict it in the next breath?" "I didn't contradict myself. I agreed that you took fine care of the welfare of your servants. But I did not agree that I prefer it to freedom. I don't." "But tell me why, Hugh? Give me a concrete reason, not a philosophical abstraction. If you're not happy, I want to know why. So that I can correct it." "I can give you one good reason. I'm not allowed to live with my wife and children." "Eh?" "Barbara. And the twins." "Oh. But is that really important to you? You have a bedwarmer. I know you have; Memtok told me, and I congratulated him on having used initiative in an odd situation. Not much gets past that sly old fox. You have one and she is sure to be more expert at her specialty than the ordinary run of breeding slut. As for the brats, no reason why you can't see them all you wish -- just order them fetched to you whenever you like. But who wants to live with brats? Or with a wife? I don't live with my wife and children, you can bet on that. I see them on appropriate occasions. But who would want to live with them?" "I would." "Well -- Uncle! I want you to be happy. It can be arranged." "# can?" "Certainly. If you hadn't put up such a fuss over being tempered, you could have had them with you all along -- though I confess I don't see why. Do you want to see the vet?" "Uh... no." "Well, there's always the other choice. I'll have the slut spayed." 'WO." Ponse sighed. "You're a hard one to please. Be practical, Hugh; I can't change a scientific breeding system developed over centuries to pamper one servant. Do you know how many servants are in this family? Here and at the Palace? Somewhere around eighteen hundred, I believe. Do you know what would happen if I allowed unrestricted breeding? In ten years there would be twice that number. Do you know what would happen next? They'd starve, that's what would happen. I can't support them in unlimited breeding. Would if I could, but it's wishing for the Moon. Worse, for we can go to the Moon any time it's worth while but nobody yet has been able to cope with the way servants will breed if left to their own devices. So which is better? To control the breeding? Or let them starve?" T heir Charity sighed and went on, "I wish you were a head shorter, we could work something out. You've been in studs' quarters?" "I visited it once, with Memtok," said Hugh. "You noticed the door? You had to stoop; Memtok walked straight in. He used to be a stud. The doors are that height in every studs' barracks in the world -- and no servant is chosen if he can't walk in without stooping. And the slut in this case is too tall, too. A wise law, Hugh, but I didn't make it; it was handed down by Their Mercy of that time, a long time ago. If they are allowed to breed too tall they start needing to be tingled too often and that's not good, ehher for master or servant. No, Hugh. Anything within reason. But don't ask for the impossible." He moved from the diIF van where he had been sitting tete-atete with Hugh, and sat down at the card table, picked up one deck. "So we'll say no more about it. Do you know how to play double solitaire?" "Yes." "Then come see if you can beat me a game and let's be cheerful. A man gets upset when his efforts aren't appreciated." Hugh shut up and s it down with him. He was thinking glumly that Ponse was not a villain, not at all. He was exactly like the members of every other ruling class in history: honestly convinced of his own benevolence and hurt if it was challenged. They played a game. Hugh lost, his mind was not on it. They started to lay out another. Their Charity remarked, "I must have more cards painted. These are getting worn and sticky." Hugh said, "Couldn't it be done more quickly, using a printer such as we use for scrolls?" "Eh? I suppose so. Hadn't thought about it." The big man rubbed one of the XXth century cards. "This doesn't seem much like printing. Are they printed? Were they, I mean?" "Oh, yes. Many thousands at a figuring the enormous numbers that used to be sold." "Really? I wouldn't have thought that bridge, with its demand on the intellect, would have attracted many people." Hugh suddenly put down his cards. "Ponse? You wanted a way to make money." "Certainly." # #XToure holding it in your I hand. Brand new. In this age. Joe! Come here and let's talk about this. How many decks of playing cards were sold each year in the United States?" "Gosh, Hugh, I don't know. Millions, maybe." "So I would say. And .at a grosf profit of about # on each deck, too. Mmm. Ponse, bridge and solitaire aren't the only games that can be played with these cards. The possibilities are unlimited. There are simple games, simple as solitaire but played by two or three or more players. There are games a dozen people can play at once. There are hard games and easy games, there is even a form of bridge -- 'duplicate,' it's called -- which is harder than contract, for people who like to work hard when they play Ponse, every family -- little family, I mean -- in the United States kept one or two or even dozens of decks of these cards on hand; it was a rare home that didn't own a single deck. I couldn't guess how many were sold. decks in use in the United States alone. And you've got a virgin market. All it needs is to get people interested in playing with cards." "Ponse, Hugh is right," Joe said solemnly. "The possibilities are unlimited." Ponse pursed up his lips. "If we sold them for a bullock a deck, let us say... mmm -- " "Too much," Joe objected. "You would kill your market before you got started." Hugh said, "Joe, what's this formula for setting a price to maximize profits rather than sales?" "Works only if you have a monopoly." "Well? How is that done here? Patents and copyrights and such? I haven't read anything about it." Joe looked troubled. "Hugh, the Chosen don't use such a system. You see, they don't need to. Everything is pretty well worked out, things don't change much." Hugh said, "That's bad. Two weeks after we start the market will be flooded with cheap imitations." Ponse said, "What are you two jabbering about? Speak Language." Hugh's first question had necessarily been in English; he knew no other words for what he wanted to ask. Joe had answered in English. Joe said, "Sorry, Ponse," and explained the ideas behind patent rights, copyright, and monopoly. Ponse relaxed. "Oh, that's simple. When a man gets an inspiration from Heaven, the Lord Proprietor recognizes it and forbids anyone else to use it without his let. Doesn't happen often, I recall only two cases in my lifetime. But Mighty Uncle has been known to smile." Hugh was not surprised to learn how scarce invention was. It was a static culture at best, with most of what they called "science" in the hands of tempered slaves. And if patenting a new idea was that difficult, there would be little incentive to invent. "Would you say that this idea is an inspiration from Heaven?" Ponse thought about it. "A true inspiration is whatever. Their Mercy, in Their wisdom, recognizes as an inspirations." Suddenly he grinned. "In my opinion, anything that will stack bullocks in the Family coffers is certainly an inspiration. The problem is to make the Proprietor see it. But there are ways, there are ways. That's my problem, not yours. Keep talking." J oe said, "Hugh, the protection should extend not only over playing cards but over the games themselves." "Of course. If they don't buy Their Charity's cards, they must not play his games. Hard to stop, since anybody can fake up a deck of cards, paint them on blank cards. But the monopoly should make it illegal." "And not just cards like these, but any sort of playing cards. Shucks, you could play bridge with cards just with numbers on them." "Yes." Hugh pondered. "Joe, there was a Scrabble set in the shelter." "It's still around. Ponse's scientists saved everything. Hugh, I see what you're driving at, but nobody here could learn Scrabble. You have to know English." "Yes, yes! But what's to keep us from inventing Scrabble all over again -- in Language? Let me set one of my staff to making a frequency count of the alphabet as it appears in Language and I'll have a set of Scrabble, board and tiles and rules, suited to Language, the following day." "What in the name of Unde is Scrabble?" IF "It's a game, Ponse. Quite a good one, too. But the point is that it's a game that we can charge more for than we can for a deck of cards." "And that's not all," said Hugh. "Parcheesi, Monopoly, backgammon, Old Maid for kids -- call it something else -- dominoes, anagrams, poker chips and racks, jigsaw puzzles -- have you seen any?" "No." "Good for young and old, and all degrees of difficulty. Tinker Toy. The idea is to think big, this isn't just playing cards. Dice. Lots of games with dice. Joe, are there casinos here?" "Of sorts. There are places to gamble and lots of private gambling." "Roulette wheels?" "I don't believe so." "Tt gets too big to think about. Ponse, you are going to have to sit up all night every night, just counting your money." "Servants for such chores. I wish I knew what you two are talking about. May one ask?" "Sorry, sir. Joe and I were talking about ancient games... and not just games but all sorts of recreations that we used to have and have now been lost. At least T think they have been. Joe?" "The only one I've seen that still looks familiar is chess. It's practically the same." "Chess would hold up if anything would. Ponces the point is that every one of these things has money in it. Surely, you have games now. But these will be novelties. So old they are new again. Ping Pong... bowling alleys! Joe, have you seen -- " "No." we've got a backlog for a century. Ponse, the first problem is to get a protection from Their Mercy to cover it all -- and I see a theory that makes it all an inspiration from on high. It was a miracle." "What? Garbage. I don't believe in miracles." "You don't have to believe in it Look, we were found on the Proprietor's own personal land -- and you found us. Doesn't that look as if Uncle intended for the Proprietor to know about this? And for you as Lord Protector to protect it?" Ponse grinned. "An argument could be made for such a theory. Might be expensive. But you can't boil water without feeding the fire, as my aunt used to say." He stood up. "I'm an old man, I'm tired. Hugh, let's see that Scrabble game. Soon. Joe, we'll find time for you to explain to me these other things. We excuse you both. All." Iitten was long since asleep  when Hugh returned to his quarters but she was clutching a note : Oh, darling, it was so wonderful to see you! ! ! I can't wait until Their Charity asks us to make up a four for bridge again! Isn't he an old dear? Even if he was thoughtless at one point. He corrected his mistake and that's always the mark of a true gentleman. I'm still so excited at seeing you that I can hardly write, and Kitten is waiting to take this to you. The twins send you kisses, slobbery ones. Love, love, love! Your Own B. Hugh read Barbara's note with mixed feelings. He shared Barbara's joy in their reunion, limited and temporary as it had been, and eagerly looked forward to the next time Ponse's pleasure would permit them to be together again. As for the rest -- Better get her out of here before she acquired a slave mentality! Surely, Ponse was a gentleman within the accepted meaning of the term. He was conscientious about his responsibilities, generous, and tolerant with his inferior. A gentleman. But he was a revolving son of a bitch, too! And Barbara ought not to be so ready to overlook the fact. Ignore it, yes. One had to. But not forget it. He must get her free. But how? He went to bed. But not to sleep. An aching hour later he got up, went into his living room, moving softly so as not to disturb Kitten, stood at his own window. He could barely make out against the black sky the blacker blackness of the Rocky Mountains, punching jagged holes in the sky. Somewhere out there, there were free men. He could break his window, walk toward the mountains, be lost in them before daylight. Find free companions. He need not even break the window -- just slip past a nodding watchman, or use the authority symbolized by his whip and go out at night despite the watch. No real effort was made to keep house servants locked up. A watch was set at nightfall more to keep intruders out. Most house servants would no more think of running away than a dog would. Dogs -- One of the studmaster's duties was keeper of the hounds. If necessary, he could kill a dog with his bare hands. But how do you run when burdened down with two small babies? He went to a cupboard, poured himself a stiff drink of Happiness, gulped it down and went back to bed. Soon he slept. To Be Concluded farthest stars --  -- on sale now! IF (effective with July issue) brings you the finest in science fiction Don't delay -- send in your subscription order today of IF delivered to your door, bringing you stories by all your favorites in science fiction! His great new novel, Farnham's Freehold, takes you into a time where humanity has done its best to destroy itself -- and the survivors have built themselves a strange new life! The Silkie -- the story of a man whose heritage and training transcend humanity T a creature whose one mission is to protect the human race, though he is no longer a part of it! And coming soon -- Fourth and greatest of the immortal "Skylark" stories, his memorable serials! Send in your order today and we will send you the next newsstand price. But act now! Ise this order lank or order y letter -- but don't delay!  IF -- Subscription Department  #I Hudson Street, New York, N. Y. #  Yes, send me the next # issues of IF! I enclose #. I  New  Renewal  Name I Address J (Outside of N. and S. America add # for postage) its vividly real telepathic society, detailed so ingeniously and dramatically that, finishing the book, you'll find it hard to believe that society doesn't exist -- yet ! regular price, plus # for postage and handling. Supplies are limited ! Send your order in immediately! (Use Coupon or Separate Sheet) Please #I Hudson St. ' rush me New York  copies of #, N Addrest ROBERT A. HEINLEIN KEITH LAUMER And Many More  October I # #c The fastest, funniest Retief story yet!  !V-World of you the finest in science fiction C)bn't delay -- send in your subscription order today of # to your door, bringing you stories by all your favorites in science fiction! His great new novel, Farnham's Freehold, takes you into a time where humanity has done its best to destroy itself -- and the survivors have built themselves a strange new life! The Silkie -- the story of a man whose heritage and training transcend humanity -- a creature whose one mission is to protect the human race, though he is no longer a part of it! And coming soon -- Fourth and greatest of the immortal "Skylark" stories, his memorable serials! Send in your order today and we will send you the next newsstand price. But act now! IF -- Subscription Department #I Hudson Street, New York, N. Y. # Yes, send me the next # issues of IF! I enclose #.  New  Renewal Use this order blank or order by letter -- but don't delay! Name ,... Address City State Zip No (Outside of N. and S. America add # for postage) Frederik Poi, Editor Sol Cohen, Publisher Diane Sullivan, Associate Editor David Perton, Production Manager IF published monthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, Robert M. Guinn, President, Vol. #, No. #, Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York #, New York. #c per copy. Subscriptions # issues # in the United States, Canada, Mexico, South America and Central America and U.S. possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All rights including translations reserved. All material submitted must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelope. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories are fiction, and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in the U. S. A. by the Guinn Company, New York #, N. Y. be generally told -- things you ought to know. Great truths are dangerous to some -- but factors for personal power and accomplishment in the hands of those who understand them. Behind the tales of the miracles and mysteries of the ancients, lie centuries of their secret probing into nature's laws -- their amazing discoveries of the hidden processes of mans mind, and the mastery of lifers problems. Once shrouded in mystery to avoid their destruction by mass fear and ignorance, these facts remain a useful heritage for the thousands of men and women who privately use them in their homes today. The Rosicrucians (not a religious organization) an age-old brotherhood of learning, have preserved this secret wisdom in their archives for centuries. They now invite you to share the practical helpfulness of their teachings. Write today for a free copv of the book, "The Mastery of Life.' Within its pages may lie a new life of opportunity for you. Address: Scribe    H.C.n... Scribe H.C.H. I San Jose, California i I Please send me the free book, The Mastery  I of Ufe, which explains how I may learn to  I use my faculties and powers of mind. i I I j Name i  Address ' I City  I IF  Novelette The Retief knew the Groaci were frying to steal this world -- trouble was, the world didn't seem to mind a bit! I R etief scaled his pale burgundy afternoon informal beret across the office, narrowly missing the clothes tree, and dumped the heavy carton he was carrying on his desk. A shapely brunette with a turned-up nose appeared at the connecting door to the next office. "Miss Braswell," he said before she could speak. "I have here two handsome half-Hter wine glasses which Fm about to field-test. Will you join me?" She made a shushing motion, rolling her eyes toward the inner office. A narrow, agitated face appeared over her shoulder. "Retief!" Consul-General Magnan burst out. "I've been at wit's end! How does it happen that every time catastrophe strikes you're out of the office?" "It's merely a matter of timing," Retief said soothingly, stripping paper from the package. He pulled out a tulip-shaped goblet which seemed to be made of coils of jewelcolored glass welded together in an intricate pattern. He held it up to the light. "Pretty, eh? And barely cool from the glass-blower." "While you idled about the bazaar," Magnan snapped, his face an angry pink above a wide, stiff collar of yellow plastiweave, "I've been coping single-handed with disaster! I suggest you put aside your baubles; I'm calling a formal Emergency Staff Meeting in two minutes!" "That means you, me and Miss Braswell, I take it, since the rest of the staff is off crater-viewing -- " "Just you and I." Magnan mopped at his face with a vast floral-patterned tissue. "This is a highly classified emergency." "Oh, goody. I'll take the rest of the afternoon off and watch the festivities." Miss Braswell winked at Retief, extended the tip of her tongue in salute to the Consul-General's back, and was gone. Retief plucked a bottle from his desk drawer and followed Magnan into the inner office. The senior officer yanked at his stiff collar, now wilting with perspiration. "Why this couldn't have waited until Minister Barnshingle's return, I don't know," he said. "He's already a day overdue. I've tried to contact him, to no avail. This primitive lineof-sight local telescreen system -- " He broke off. "Retief, kindly defer your tippling until after the crisis!" "Oh, this isn't tippling, Mr. Magnan. I'm doing a commodity analysis for my next report. You fobbed the detail of Commercial Attache off on me, if you recall." "As Charge d'affaire in the absence of the Minister, I forbid drinking on duty!" Magnan roared. "Surely you jest, Mr. Magnan! It would mean the end of diplomacy as we know it." "Well, not until after lunch, at least. And I hereby authorize you to postpone market research until further notice; we're facing a possible holocaust in a matter of hours!" "What's it all about?" M agnan plucked a sheet of yellow paper from his desk and handed it to Retief. "This came in over the autotyper forty minutes ago." "Uhlans," Retief said. "Those are thousand-man transports. And ohnine-hundred on the thirty-third is just about two hours from now." "This could be an invasion, Retief! A major breach of the peace! Can you imagine how it would look in my record if the planet were invaded under my very nose!" "Tough on the natives, too," Retief commented. "What action have you taken so far?" IP "Action? Why, I've canceled this afternoon's social engagements, checked out-going passenger schedules... and sharpened a number of pencils." "Have you tried contacting this Ensign Pomfroy for a little more detail?" "There's no one on duty in the Message Center but a local Code Clerk. He's trying to raise him now." Magnan depressed a button on his desk. "Oo-Gilitit, have you met with any success?" "Pomfroy-Tic all same have organ cluster up ventral orifice -- " "Gilitit, I've warned you to watch your language!" Magnan roared. "It's no habit for a communications man to get into!" He clicked off. "Confounded locals! It's hopeless, of course. Our equipment was never designed for pinpointing moving patrol boats at four A-U's." "How do the Yalcan's feel about the situation?" asked Retief, playing with the goblet still in his hand. Magnan blinked. "Why, as to that, I -- ah -- was just going to call OoRilikuk." Magnan punched keys, tuned in a bland yellow and blue face with eyes like gold pinheads, and vertically-hinged jaws busy with an oily drumstick. "Ah, there, Magnan," a voice like an uncoiled wheel said. "Just finishing Up my lunch. Roast haunch of giant locust. Delicious." A tongue like a length of green silken rope flicked a tidbit from a corner of the lipless mouth. "Oo-Rilikuk, do you know anything of a large convoy due here today?" R ilikuk dabbed at his chin with a gossamer napkin. "I seem to recall issuing a number of visas to Groaci nationals in recent weeks." "Groaci? Fifty shiploads of them?" "Something like that," the Yalcan said carelessly. "By the way, if you haven't already made arrangements, perhaps you'd care to join my Bachelor's Group for the upcoming festivities -- " "You're not concerned? Perhaps you're not aware of the insidious reputation the Groaci enjoy!" "I don't mind saying I've exercised a trifle of influence to procure a choice mud pocket. The rich, oleaginous kind, you know. And there'll be no shortage of nubile females along -- though you're not organized to appreciate the latter, it's true -- " "May I ask the state of the planetary defenses, Rilikuk? I'm warning you, Groaci can't be trusted!" "Planetary defenses?" Rilikuk issued a chirrup of amusement. "As confirmed pacifists, we've never felt the need for such an extravagance. Now, I'll be leaving the office in a few minutes. Suppose I drop by for you. We'll go on to my place for dinner, then off to the bog -- " "You're leaving the Foreign Office at a moment like this?" Magnan yelped. "They'll be landing in a matter of minutes!" "I fear I'll have no time to devote to tourism this week, Magnan," Rilikuk said. "They'll just have to manage alone. After all, Voom Festival comes but once in ninety-four standard years." IF Magnan rang off with a snort. "We'll receive scant help from that quarter." He swiveled to gaze out the unglazed window across the gay tiles of the plaza, lined with squat, one-story shops of embossed and colored ceramic brick, to the glittering minarets of the mile-distant temple complex. "If these idlers invested less energy in shard-sorting and more in foreign affairs, I wouldn't be faced with this contretemps." into selling them a few thousand tons of sand, they wouldn't have to sort shards." bottoms than hauling sand, Retief... though I notice the local scrap pile is about depleted. Possibly now they'll turn to more profitable pursuits than lavishing the artistry of generations on tenantless shrines." He indicated the cluster of glass towers sparkling in the sun. "They might even consent to export a reasonable volume of glassware in place of the present token amounts." "Rarity keeps the price up; and they say they can't afford to let much glass off-world. It all goes back in the scrap piles when it's broken, for reuse." Magnan stared across the plain, where the white plumes of small geysers puffed into brief life, while the pale smoke rising from the fumaroles rose straight up in the still air. Far above, a point of blue light twinkled. "Odd," Magnan said, frowning. "I've never seen one of the moons in broad daylight before." Retief came to the window. "You still haven't. Apparently our Groaci friends are ahead of schedule. That's an ion drive, and it's not over twenty miles out." U M agnan bounded to his feet. "Get your hat, .Retief! We'll confront these interlopers the moment they set foot on Yalcan soil! The Corps isn't letting this sort of thing pass without comment!" "The Corps is always a fast group with a comment." Retief said. "I'll give it that." Outside, the plaza was a-bustle with shopkeepers glittering in holiday glass jewelry, busily closing up their stalls, erecting intricate decorations resembling inverted chandeliers before the shuttered shops, and exchanging shouted greetings. A longbodied pink-and-red-faced Yalcan in a white apron leaning in the open door of a shop waved a jointed forearm. "Retief-Tic! Do me honor of to drop in for last Voom cup before I lock up. Your friend, too!" "Sorry, Oo-Plif; duty calls." "I see you've established your usual contacts among the undesirable element," Magnan muttered, signalling a boat-shaped taxi edging through the press on fat pneumatic wheels. "Look at these lackwitsi Completely engrossed in their frivolity, while disaster descends scarcely a mile away." Retief eyed the descending ship as it settled in behind the glittering spires of the temple-city. "I wonder why they're landing ttiere, instead of at the port," Relief wondered. 'They've probably mistaken the shrine for the town," Magnan snapped. "One must admit that it makes a far more impressive display than this collection of mud huts!" "Not the Groaci. They do their homework carefully before they start anything." The cab pulled up and Magnan barked directions at the driver, who waved his forearms in the Yalcan equivalent of a shrug. "Speak to this fellow, Retief!" Magnan snapped. "Obscure dialects are a hobby of yours, I believe." Retief gave the driver instructions in the local patois and leaned back against the floppy cushions. Magnan perched on the edge of the seat and nipped at a hangnail. The car cleared the square, racketed down a side street streaming with locals headed for the bog, gunned out across the hard-baked mud-flat, swerving violently around the bubbling devil's cauldrons of hot mud that dotted the way. A small geyser erupted with a whoosh! and spattered the open vehicle with hot droplets. A whiff of rotten-egg smoke blew past. Off to the left, the sunlight glinted from the wide surface of the swaipp, thickly scattered with exotic lily-like flowers. Here and there, tree-ferns grew in graceful clumps from the shallow water. Along the shore, bright-colored tents had been erected, and local celebrants clustered in groups among them, weaving to and fro and waving their multiple arms. iiTt's disgraceful," Magnan sniff-l-ed. "They're already staggering and their infernal festival's hardly begun!" "It's a native dance," Retief said. "Very cultural." "What's the occasion for this idiotic celebration? It seems to have completely paralyzed whatever elementary sense of responsibility these flibertigibbets possess." "It's related in some way to the conjunction of the four moons," Retief said. "But there's more to it than that. It seems to have an important religious significance. The dances are symbolic of death and rebirth, or something of the sort." "Hmmph! I see the dancers are now falling flat on their faces! Religious ecstasy, no doubt!" As they swept past the reeling locals, the driver made cabalistic signs in the air and grabbed the steering bar just in time to swerve past a steam-jet that snored from a cleft boulder. Ahead, a cloud of dust was rolling out from the landing spot where the Groaci ship had settled in, a scant hundred yards from an outlying shrine, a sparkling fiftyfoot tower of red, yellow and green glass. "They're coming perilously close to violating the native holy place," Magnan observed as the taxi pulled up beside the ship. "There may be mob violence at any moment." A pair of locals, emerging from one of the many fanciful glass arches adorning the entrances to the shrine complex, cast no more than a casual glance at the vessel as a port opened in its side and a spindleIF legged Groaci in golfing knickers and loud socks appeared. Magnan climbed hurriedly from the cab. "I want you to note my handling of this, Retief," he said behind his hand. "A firm word now may avert an incident." "I'd better say a firm word to the driver, or we'll be walking back." "Look, Mac-Tic, I got a reserved slot in a hot pocket of mud waiting for me," the driver called as he wheeled the car around. "Five minutes, okay?" Retief handed the cabbie a ten credit token and followed Magnan across the scorched ground to the landing ladder. The Groaci descended, all five eye-stalks canted in different directions -- One on Magnan. "Minister Barnshingle," he said in his faint Groac voice before Magnan could speak. "I am Fiss, Tour Director for Groac Planetary Tours, Incorporated. I assume you've come to assist in clearing my little flock through the Customs and Immigration formalities. Now -- " "Tour Director, did you say, Mr. Fiss?" Magnan cut in. "Fifty shiploads of tourists?" "Quite correct. I can assure you that passports and visas are all in order, and immunization records are up-to-date. Since we Groaci have no diplomatic mission to Yale, it is good office." "Just a minute, Mr. Fiss! How long are your tourists planning to stay on Yale? Just during the Voom Festival, I assume?" "I believe our visas read... ah... indefinite, Mr. Minister." "I'm Magnan, Charge in the absence of the Minister," Magnan said. F iss waved his eyes. "The Minister is not here?" "No, he's off mountain climbing. Very keen on sports. Now, ah, may I ask where your other forty-nine vessels might be?" "Just where is the Minister to be found?" Fiss enquired. "I really can't say," Magnan sniffed. "We've had no word for two days. Now, about your other ships," Magnan persisted. "There are, I believe, forty-nine cities here on this charming little world," Fiss said smoothly. "One transport is calling at each." "Curious way to conduct a tour." Magnan broke off as a cargo port rumbled open and a heavy six-wheeled vehicle churned out. Rows of multi-eyed Groaci heads peered over open sides, on which the words second vehicle followed the first, and a third and fourth. Magnan gaped as the emerging carriers took up positions in an orderly double file. "Here, what's this, Fiss?" he blurted. "These are tourists?" "Of course? What else? Please not the presence of ladies and also a number of lovable Groaci grubs. Yes, innocent, fun-loving tourists all." "Why are they in armored cars?" Magnan watched as the vehicles moved off in the direction of the towering glass temples. "Here, where are they going?" Ill "Since the entire populace is fully occupied with Voom festival activities," Fiss hissed blandly, "Groac Tours has thoughtfully arranged to occupy available unused housing." "Why, that's the local Holy of Holies," Magnan expostulated. "You can't go in there!" "The structures are not in use," Fiss whispered. "And I see no objection on the part of the aborigines." He indicated the cab driver who was watching indifferently as the first tractor moved under a graceful crystalline arch into the sparkling glass-bricked avenue. "Hey, Mac-Tic," the driver called to Retief in Yale. "Time's up. I wanna get there before the mud cools!" "Are you out of your mind, Mr. Fiss?" Magnan demanded. "You're deliberately precipitating an incident! I'm warning you, I'll refer this to Sector HQ and call for a squadron of Peace Enforcers!" "What need for Peace Enforcers, my dear fellow?" Fiss murmured. "Peace reigns! We are unarmed. No act of violence is contemplated." "We'll see about this!" Magnan fumed. He turned and stamped toward the waiting taxi. "So thoughtful of you to welcome us," Fiss's faint voice followed him. "I shall be calling at the Legation later to arrange a number of formalities. All quite legal, I assure you." "It's worse than I thought," Magnan groaned to Retief as he climbed into the cab. "When a Groaci starts citing statutes, you can be sure there's mischief afoot!" CC'This is incredible!" MagnanI barked at the screen where Oo-Rilikuk's multi-colored visage nodded blandly against a background of sinously moving Yalcan dancing-wenches. "You calmly admit that these foreigners are occupying every pagoda on the planet, strewing dope-stick butts and -- " "This is Voom season, Mr. Magnan," Rilikuk said reasonably. "What could be more fitting?" "Your concept of propriety confounds me. There are fifty thousand of these fellows -- and I have the distinct impression they're planning an extended stay!" "Very likely," Rilikuk agreed, twitching in time to the music in the background. "And now, if you'll excuse me..." The screen blanked. Magnan threw up his hands. "I don't like it, Retief. There's an aspect of this we're missing." A chime sounded. The door opened and the Groaci Fiss bustled in, breathing noisily under the weight of a heavy briefcase. "Ah, Mr. Magnan! So good of you to await me. I have the papers here." He hoisted the case onto the desk and undid stout straps. "Pm sure you'll find all in order: Territorial claims, governmental charter, application for League membship -- " "What's this?" Magnan scanned the heavy documents. "What are you saying sir? That Yale -- that the Groaci -- that you -- " "Quite right," Fiss nodded. "This world is now Groaci property." There was a loud crash from the direction of the now deserted street. Magnan swiveled, stared out at a band of businesslike Groaci, hard at work on a shuttered shop with pry-bars. "What are they doing?" he yelped. "Mr. Fiss, order those vandals away at once! The situation is getting out of hand!" "Not at all. Those chaps are merely following my instructions. And now if you have any belongings you wish to take along -- " "Eh? Belongings? Tm not going anywhere." "Permit me to contradict you," Fiss hissed softly, prodding a paper with a damp-looking finger. "This is the eviction order. I find that this humble structure will adequately fulfill my requirement for a field-office here in the village." "F-field office?" "I expect we shall be busy here for a few days," Fiss said. "Transferring useful items to our quarters," He waved airily toward the sparkling towers beyond the swamp. "You're violating the Legation?" Magnan's eyes bulged. "There has been a change of status quo since my arrival," Fiss pointed out. "No formal relations exist between my government and an office, and you are unregistered aliens." "This is an outrage!" Magnan sputtered. "I'm not leaving!" "So?" Fiss murmured. He stepped to the door, opened it, waved in a quartet of bigger-than-average Groaci. #rx intimidate the soft ones," A he hissed in Groaci. "To make threatening gestures." Two of the newcomers stepped to Retief. He took them casually by their thin necks, escorted them to the window and tumbled them out. The second pair jumped at him in time to meet a stiff-arrri which slammed both of them onto their backs. Fiss emitted a' weak but impassioned bleat. "Unhand them, brute! These are lawfully appointed bailiffs!" Retief helped the stunned Groaci after their fellows and took a step toward Fiss. The Tour Director squeaked and darted through the door. "Retief!" Magnan yelped. "Stop! After all, these papers -- " Retief gathered in the parchments, tossed them after the intruders. The outraged face of Tour Director Fiss appeared at the opening. "Ruffians! Bandits! Our legal and just claim -- " " -- isn't worth the plastic it's printed on," Retief stated. "And if any more tourists wander into the Legation I won't be so polite with them." Fiss turned and made frantic gestures to the foraging crew. "To enter and evict the madmen!" he hissed. "To cast them forth bodily!" The several dozen Groaci who had gathered moved in a body toward the Legation door. "Fm disappointed in you, Fiss," Retief said, shaking his head sadly. "I thought you were going to pretend that this was all perfectly legal. and here you are about to violate a diplomatic mission in broad daylight." Fiss hesitated, then hissed an order to his men. They halted. "Very well, Soft One," he whispered. "What need of force? Unlike the higher races, you require water at frequent intervals, I believe. Since, alas, I cannot authorize further deliveries through the village mains, you will soon emerge to seek it. We 'will be waiting." M agnan tottered to Retief's side. "Mr. Fiss," he croaked. "This is madness! You can't possibly hope to justify this outrageous seizure." "On the contrary, Mr. Magnan," Fiss waved a fistful of paper. "If you will re-read you Colonial Code, Title Three, Section XI, paragraph #b, you will find that, and I quote, 'any planetary body lacking an indigenous culture may be considered as available for homesteading by any Power covenant to these articles.' " "Surely, Fiss, you don't imply that Yale is uninhabited! Great Heavens, the world is known throughout the Sector for the beauty of its glass and ceramic work." "I refer further to paragraph #d, ibidem Fiss bored on, "which provides the following criteria for determination of cultural level within the meaning of the Code (a) an active, organized government competent to represent native interests; (b) a degree of social organization characterized by cities of at least one thousand inhabitants; and (c) individual or group I.Q., (as applicable) averaging .# "standard" as "Have you lost your wits?" Magnan cut in. "You're standing in the midst of a Yalcan City! I deal daily with representatives of the Yalcan government! As for intelligence -- " Inhahited city, Mr. Magnan, permit me to remind you. Minimum population, one thousand individuals." Fiss waved a hand at the empty street. "I see no individuals here." "But they're all away participating in a festival!" "As for government," Fiss continued blandly, "I have been totally unsuccessful in discovering any active organization. I confess I have been unable to secure a specimen of the local fauna for I.Q. Testing, but I feel sure any such effort would be unrewarding." "You deliberately timed this coup to take advantage of local customs!" Magnan said in a shocked tone. "The code will be amended, Fiss!" The Groaci vibrated his throat sac, a contemptuous gesture. Ex post facto legal manipulations can hardly be expected to affect the present situation retroactively, my dear Magnan." Magnan clutched at the edge of the window. "Retief," he gasped weakly. "This is insane, but I have a sudden, awful conviction that he's legally on firm ground." "Of course," Fiss went on, "article # of the Code expressly prohibits occupation by force of any world, cultured or otherwise. However, since our arrival was carried out in complete tranquility, this is hardly germane." IF "The festival will be over tomorrow," Magnan burst out. "What then?" legal possession of this planet," Fiss whispered, "it will, of course, be necessary to enforce the just laws which are even now being enacted. To this end, certain arms are of course necessary." He spat rapid Groacian at a trio of newcomers in black hipcloaks, who silently produced heavy particle-guns from sequinned holsters strapped to their thighs. "You aren't planning -- violence?" Magnan gasped. "Not against ms.'" "As to that," Fiss whispered, "I was about to point out that naturally, a formal request for diplomatic status addressed to the present regime would, of course, receive consideration." "Tour Director Fiss -- " Magnan gulped. "Planetary Coordinator Pro-Tern Fiss, if you please," the Groaci hissed. "It is unfortunate that the large Soft One acted in such haste, but I am prepared to overlook the incident." "Why, ah, very good of you. I'm sure, Pla -- " "You're out of luck, Fiss," Retief cut in. "You'll have to conduct your Magnan tugged at Retief's sleeve. "Here, Retief! This is hardly a time for truculence!" "It's as good a time as any, Mr. Magnan. And Minister Barnshingle might be irritated if he came back and discovered that these squatters had been recognized as a legal government." Magnan groaned. "I... I suppose you're right." "So? But, no matter, Soft One," Fiss whispered. "Why treat with underlings, eh? My scouts report a party of terrestrials in difficulty oil an awkward slope some leagues from here. Doubtless the person Barnshingle of whom you speak will be grateful for relief. A timely rescue by selfless Groaci homesteaders wiU establish a correct mood for initiation of formal relations." "The Minister's in trouble?" Magnan squeaked. "He is at present dangling over a crevasse of awesome depth by a single strand of rope. Diplomat muscles appear unequal to the task of drawing him up." There was a rending crunch from a shop across the plaza as a barred door collapsed under the impact (rf a power ram. Swarms of Groaci were systematically looting the stalls already opened, loading foodstuffs, glassware and other merchandise into wheeled vehicles. "This is wholesale hijackery!" Magnan yelped. "Open pillage! Highway robbery! You can't do this without a license!" "Curb your tongue, sir!" Fiss hissed. "I shall for a while indulge your arrogant preemption of Groaci property out of sentimental respect for the niceties of diplomatic usage, but I shall tolerate no insults!" "Threats, Mr. Fiss?" Magnan choked. "Call it what you will. Soft One," Fiss said. "When you are ready to If acquiesce, send your word to me. Meantime, leave this building at your peril!" IV D usk had fallen. The sounds of shattering locks and maneuvering vehicles continued in the streets outside. Beyond the window, booted Groaci peace-keepers paced monotonously, heavy blast guns at the ready. Now and then, in a momentary lull, the sound of Yalcan voices raised in song could be heard from the bog, where torches flared, reflecting from the mirror-dark waters. The two lesser moons were high in the sky in their slow orbits; the third had risen above the horizon and cast purple shadows across the floor of the silent Legation office. "It's nearly dark," Magnan muttered. "Retief, perhaps I'd better accompany you. Fiss may change his mind and batter the door down." "He could come in through the window any time he decided to," Retief said. "He's nicely bluffed for the present, Mr. Magnan. And someone has to stay here to maintain occupancy of Ae Legation." "On second thought, I'm changing my instructions," Magnan said decisively. "You'd better not go. After all, if Minister Barnshingle wishes to recognize the coup, I see no reason -- " "I don't think the Minister will be reasoning at his most lucidT level while dangling over a precipice. And there's also Miss Braswell to consider. She's out there somewhere." "Retief, you can't hope to find her without being apprehended! The city is swarming with armed Groaci!" "I think I know the back streets better than they do. I'll stay out of sight. If I can reach Barnshingle before he signs anything, it may save a lot of embarrassment all around." "Retief, as Charge -- " "Don't give me any instructions I can't follow, Mr. Magnan," Retief took a hand-light from a desk drawer, clipped it to his belt. "Just lie low and ignore whatever Fiss says to you. I'll be back in a few hours." R etief stepped from a doorless opening into the shadows of a narrow alley running behind the Legation. He waited until a knobkneed Groaci in an elaborate helmet had strolled past the lighted intersection fifty feet distant, then jumped, pulled himself up onto the low, tiled roof of the adjacent building. In the light of the rising fourth moon, he moved quietly to the far side, lay flat looking down on a side street littered with items discarded by the looters. One or two windows showed lights. A single armed Groaci stood under a corner street-lamp. Silently Retief worked his way along the roofs, jumping gaps between buildings, until he reached a narrow space leading back into darkness a few yards from the corner. He groped, found a chip of broken tile, tossed it down into the alley. The Groaci cocked his eyes alertly, swung his gun around and came over to investigate, Retief tossed IF down' another pebble; as the sentry entered the dark way, Retief dropped behind him, yanked him backward off his feet and caught the falling gun. He put the muzzle against the Grocai's pulsating throat sac. 'Tell me where the Terry female is being held," he growled, "and maybe I won't tie knots in your eyestalks." unhand me, demonic one!" "Of course, you may not know," Retief said. "In that case I'd have to regretfully kill you and strike up a new acquaintance, which would be a nuisance for both of us." "The impropriety of assaulting an innocent tourist! To lodge a complaint with the Travellers Aid Society!" "No, that was this morning," Retief corrected his prisoner. "This afternoon you're a peaceful homesteader. You can think of me as an unpacified aborigine, if it will help any." He jabbed with the gun. "Make up your mind. I'm on a tight schedule." "The ghastliness of your fate," the Groaci hissed. "Well, I have to hurry along," Retief said. "Pardon my thumbs; shooting is such a messy business, and noisy, too." "To restrain yourself, prowler in the night! To show you the way to the Soft She -- and to savor the moment when you writhe on the hooks!" "That's right," Retief said agreeably. "Think about something cheerful." He prodded the captive guard to his feet. "In the meantime -- " he switched to Groaci -- "to play your cards right and maybe to live to see the dawn." I n a shadowy arcade running beside a rare two-story structure, Relief studied the dark windows in the wall opposite. Faint light gleamed behind two of the glassless openings. "Fll have to leave you here, I'm afraid, Tish," Relief said softly. "I'll just pop you into one of these convenient garbage storage units. They have nicely fitted airtight doors, but you'll be all right for an hour or so. If your information is accurate, with luck ril be back in plenty of time to let you out before you suffocate. Of course, if anything happens to delay me -- well, that's just the little risk we have to run, eh?" "To... to try the rear window first," Tish whispered. "Whatever you say." Relief opened the door to the refuse bin and urged the Groaci inside. The alien clinched his olfactory sphincters tight and perched disconsolately on a heap of fruit rinds, locust carapaces and pottery shards, his head ducked under the low ceiling. "To remember this trusting one," he said shakily. "To carefully avoid being killed before returning to release me."' "With a motivation like that. I'm sure to survive." Retief clamped the door shut, looked both ways, and darted across the street. The wall tiles were deeply incised with decorative floral motifs. He found finger and todiolds, climbed quickly to the level of the windows, eased through into a dark room. He paused to listen; there were faint Groaci voices mewhere. In the dim-lit hall, they were more distinct. He moved silently along to the nearest room. The door opened at a touch. Miss Braswell jumped up from a long, low Yalcan couch, her mouth open for a scream, cut off as she recognized Retief in the gloom. Why -- Mr. Retief I" "Shhh." He crossed to her. A length of rope was tied firmly to her ankle and looped around a massive clay sculpture. She was barefooted, and her brown hair was in a state of mild disarray; there was a streak of dirt along one cheek. "What in the world is it all about?" she whispered. "I was just about to buy the darlingest handdecorated chamber pot when all of a sudden a whole bunch of these nasty little creatures popped out of nowhere waving their eyes at me." "How many are in the buildiig now?" Retief attacked the heavy knots in the rope. "Heavens, I have no idea. It's been pretty quiet for the last hour." She giggled. "That tickles. I tried to untie it, but I only broke a fingernail." The knot yielded and Retief tossed the rope aside. "Do you feel equal to a short climb?" Miss Braswell came close to Retief. "Whatever you say, Mr. Retief," she murmured. "Where are your shoes?" "I kept kicking them when they IF were tying me up, so they took them. UghI Those creepy, damp hands!" "If we should get separated, head for the Legation. Mr. Magnan is holding the fort." "You mean -- these awful little Groaci are there, too?" "Haven't you heard? They're colonizing the place." "Why, the nerve!" 'Tere was a sudden hiss of nearA by voices. Relief flattened himself against the wall just inside the door. Miss Braswell whirled and sat on the chaise-longue. There was the soft clap of Groaci feet. A small figure stepped into the room. "Ah, young woman," a soft Groaci voice hissed. "Time to be going along." "Where?" the girl demanded loudly "To more comfortable quarters in more attractive surroundings." "If it wasn't so ridiculous, I'd think you were on the make, you sticky little monster. Keep away from me!" "You mammals are all alike," the Groaci whispered. "But it's pointless to flaunt those ugly objects at me, my girl." Two more Groaci had followed the first, who signalled. "To make fast its arms," he snapped. "To mind its talons -- " Miss Braswell jumped up and swung an open-'handed slap that sent the flimsy alien reeling back; Relief stepped quickly behind the other two, cracked their heads together sharply, thrust them aside and chopped a hand across the leader's neck. "Time to go," he breathed. At the window, he glanced out, then swung a leg over the sill. "It's easy; just hang on with your toes." Miss Braswell giggled again. "It's so sort of sexy, being barefooted, isn't it?" "That depends on what's attached to the feet," Relief said. "Hurry up, now. We're in enemy territory." "Mr. Relief," she said from above, "Do you think I flaunt my ah..." "Certainly not. Miss Braswell. They flaunt themselves." There was a sudden drumming from the shadows of the arcade across the way. "It just occurred to my friend Tish to use a little initiative," Retief called softly. He dropped to the street a few feet below. "Jump -- I'll catch you." The thumping continued. Miss Braswell squealed and let go, slammed agaihst Relief's chest. He set her on her feet. "The Groaci have good ears. Come on!" They dashed for the nearest dark alley as a squad of armed Groaci Peace-keepers rounded a corner. There was a weak shout, a clatter of accoutrements as the four aliens broke into a run. Gripping Miss Braswell's hand, Retief dashed along the narrow way. Ahead, a wall loomed, blocking the passage. They skidded to a halt, turned to face the oncoming pursuers. "Get to the roof," Retief snapped. "I'll slow them down!" Between Retief and the Groaci, a six foot long grating set in the pavement suddenly dropped open with a dank of metal. The leading Groaci, coming on at a smart clip, plunged over the edge, followed an instant later by the second. Relief brought his light up, shone it in the eyes of the other two as the third runner reached the pitfall, dropped from sight. As the last of the four faltered, sensing something amiss, the long, sinuous form of a Yalcan native glided from a door set in the wall, gave the Groaci a hearty push, dusted both sets of hands, and inclined its head in a gracious nod. # # A h, Retief-Tic -- and BraswellTiccim! What jolly surprise! Please do honor to enter humble abode for refreshing snort before continuing!" "Nice timing, Oo-Plif," Retief said. "I thought you'd be off to the festival by now." The Yalcan reached inside the door, fumbled. The grating swung back in place. "I was busy with brisk trade when Five-eyes arrive," he explained. "Decide stick around to keep eye on store. Plenty time make scene at bog yet." Miss Braswell shuddered as she crossed the grate. "What's down there?" "Only good honest sewage, nice change for Five-eyes. After brisk swim, fetch up in bog, join in merrymaking." "I thought you Yalcans were pacifists," Retief commented, stepping inside a roughly finished passage running parallel with the outer wall of the building. "All Yalcan love peace. More peaceful now noisy Five-eyes enjoying swim. Besides, only open drain cover; Visitors dive in of own free will." "I had the impression you helped that last fellow along." "Always try to be helpful when possible. Listen, you want to talk, or want snort?" They followed Oo-Plif along interior passages to emerge behind the bar of the darkened dram-shop, took seats at a low bench and accepted elaborate glasses of aromatic liquor... "Oo-Plif, I'd appreciate it if you'd see Miss Braswell back to the Legation," Retief said. "I have to leave town on an urgent errand." "Better stay close, Retief-Tic. Come along to bog in time for high point of Voom festiyal. Only couple hours now." "I have an errand to run first, Oo-Plif. I've been delegated to find Minister Barnshingle and notify him that the Legation's under siege and that he shouldn't sign anything without reading the fine print." "Barnshingle-Tic-Tic? Skinny Terran with receding lower mandible and abdomen like queen ripe with eggs?" "Graphically put, Oo-Plif. He's supposed to be hanging around a mountain somewhere, if the Groaci haven't yet swooped down to the rescue." Oo-Plif was wobbling his head, now enameled in orange and green holiday colors, in the Yalcan gesture of affirmation. "Barnshingle-Tic-Tic here in city at present moment. Arrive halfhour ago amid heavy escort of Fivees." IF "Hmmm. That simplifies matters, perhaps. I was expecting to have to steal a Groaci heli and hunt him down in the wilds. Did he seem to be a prisoner, Oo-Plif? "Hard to say, not get too good look. Busy helping Five-eyes find way to bog." "Via the sewer, I take it?" "Sure; plenty gratings round town. Must be fifty Five-eyes in swim now; plenty company." "Are you sure they can swim?" "Details, details," Oo-Plif said soothingly. "You want to go now, pay visit to Barnshingle-Tic-Tic?" "As soon as Miss Braswell's taken care of." "I'm going with you," the girl said quickly. "I wouldn't dream of missing the excitement." V ii'This system of hidden pasA sages is certainly handy," Relief said. "How much farther?" "Close now. Not really hidden passages; just space in double walls. Yalcan like build plenty strong." They emerged into another of the innumerable alleys that characterized the town, crossed it, entered another door. Oo-Plif cautioned silence. "Place swarm with Five-eyes. We sneak up and get lie of land, find way of rescue Barnshingle-TicTic from rescuers." Five minutes later, crowded into a narrow, dusty passage in the heart of the sprawling building. Relief heard the booming tones of Barnshingle's voice nearby, and the breathy reply of a Groaci. "Opening in back of closet just ahead," Oo-Plif whispered. "Get earful of proceedings there." Relief edged forward. Through the half-open closet door he caught a glimpse of Minister Barnshingle seated awkwardly in a low Yalcan easy chair, dressed in dusty hikin' clothes. Half a dozen Groaci in varicolored mufti surrounded him. " -- an exceedingly hairy experience, to be sure," Barnshingle was saying. "Most gratifying to see your heli appear. Drone-master Fiss. But I don't quite grasp the import of the present situation. Not that I'm suggesting that I'm being held against my will, you understand, but I really must hurry back to my office." "No need for haste, Mr. Minister," Fiss reassured him. "Everything has been conducted with scrupulous regard for legality, I assure you." "But there seemed to be hundreds of your... , ah... esteemed compatriots about in the streets," Barnshingle pressed on. "And I had the distinct impression that there were a number of highly irregular activities in progress." "You refer perhaps to the efforts of some of our people to remove certain obstacles?" "Breaking down doors, to be precise," Barnshingle said a trifle snappishly. "As well as hauling away wagon-loads of merchandise from shops the owners of which appeared to be absent." "Ah, yes, impulse buying. Hardly consonant with domestic thrift. But enough of this delightful gossip, Mr. Minister. The matter I wished to discuss with you... Fiss gave the Minister a glowing account of his peaceful takeover, citing chapter and verse each time the astounded diplomat attempted to rumble a protest. "And, of course," he finished, "I wished to acquaint your Excellency with the facts before permitting you to be subjected to ill-advised counsel by hot-heads." "B-but, great heavens. Dronemaster -- " "Planetary Coordinator Pro Tern Fiss interjected smoothly. "Now, I shall, of course, be happy to inspect your credentials at once in order to regularize relations between the Corps and my government." # #TVyTy credentials? But I've preJ"Asented my credentials to "This is hardly the time to reminisce over vanished regimes, Mr. Minister. Now -- " Fiss leaned forward confidentially -- "you and I are, if I may employ the term, men of the world. Not for us the fruitless expense of emotional energy over the fait accompli, eh? As for myself, I am most eager to show you around my offices in the finest of the towers of my capital." "Towers? Capital?" "The attractive edifices just beyond the swampy area where the local wildlife are now disporting themselves," Fiss explained. "I have assigned -- " "You've violated the native Sanctum Sanctorum?" Barnshingle gasped. "An unfortunate choice of words," Fiss hissed. "Would you have me establish my ministries here in this warren of huts?" "The Yalcans -- " Barnshingle said weakly. "The name of the planet is now Grudlu," Fiss stated. "In honor of Grud, the patron Muse of practicality." "Look here, Fiss! Are you asking me to turn my back on the Yalcans and recognize you as the de jure government here? Simply on the basis of this absurd legalistic rationalization of yours?" "With the exception of a number of slanted adjectives, very succinctly put," Fiss whispered. "Why in the world would I do a dastardly thing like that?" Barnshingle demanded. "Why, good for him," Miss Braswell breathed behind Retief. "Ah, yes, terms," Fiss said comfortably. "First, your mission would, of course, be raised at once to Embassy level, at Grudlun insistence, with yourself requested by name as Ambassador, naturally. Secondly, I have in mind certain local commercial properties which might make a valuable addition to your portfolio. I can let you in at investor's prices. The entire transaction to be conducted with the utmost discretion, of course, so as not to arouse comment among the coarse-minded. Then, of course, you'll wish to select a handsome penthouse for yourself in one of my more exclusive towers..." "Penthouse? Ambassador? Portfolio?" Barnshingle babbled. "I marvel at the patience your Excellency has displayed in tolerating the thinly veiled insult implied IF in your assignment to grubby quarters in this kennel," Fiss commented. "Why a person could disappear in this maze of old crockery and never be heard from again." "Disappear?" Barnshingle croaked. "And vvha -- what if I refuse?" # # TJ efuse? Please, Mr. Minister -- or more properly, Mr. Ambassador -- why release the fowl of fancy to flutter among such morbid trees of speculation?" "What about my staff? Will -- " "Suitable bribes will be offered," Fiss whispered crisply. "Pray don't give it another thought. All surviving members of the Mission will present a united front -- with the exception of the two criminals now sulking in the former Legation, of course," he added. "Magnan? Why, he's one of my most reliable men!" "Perhaps something could be managed in the case of Mr. Magnan, since you express an interest. As for the other -- he will return to Groac to stand trial for assorted crimes against the peace and dignity of the Groacian state." "I really must protest -- " Barnshingle said weakly. "Your Excellency's loyalty is most touching. And now, if you'd just care to sign here." An underling handed Fiss a document which he passed to Barnshingle. "Why, the old phoney!" Miss Braswell gasped. "He's going to do it!" "It's time to break this up," Relief whispered to Oo-Plif. "I'll take care of Fiss;. you hit the others." "On contrary, Retief-Tic," tho Yalcan replied. "Most improper to interfere with natural course of events." "Maybe you don't understand; Barnshingle's about to sign away your rights to Yale. By the time you drag it through the courts and recover, you may all be dead. The Groaci are zealous in the. field of wildlife control." "No matter. We Yalcans pacifistic folk. Not like butt in," Oo-Plif said quietly. "In that case. I'll have to do it alone. You'll take care of Miss Braswell -- " "No, not even alone, dear RetiefTic. Not in spirit of Yalcan Pacifism." Something hard prodded Relief's chest; he looked down at the power gun in Oo-PIifs lower right hand. "Why, you old stinker," Miss Braswell said. "And I thought you were sweet!" "Hope soon to recoup good opinion, Braswell-Ticcim," Oo-Plif said. "Now silence, please." In the room, Barnshingle and Fiss were making congratulatory noises at each other. "Matter of fact," Barnshingle said, "I never felt these Yalcans were ready for self-government. I'm sure your wardship will be just what they need." "Please -- no meddling in internal affairs," Fiss said. "And now let us away to more appropriate surroundings. Just wait until you see the view from your new suite, Mr. Ambassador..." They departed, chattering. you've had your way, VV Oo-Plif," Relief said. "Your pacifism has a curiously spotty quality. Just why do you object to preventing our unfortunate Minister from making an idiot of himself?" "Forgive use of weapon, RetiefTic. Foolishness of Barnshingle Tic-Tic-Tic not important." "He's a three-tic man now?" "Promotion just received at hands of Five-eyes. Now away to bog, all buddies together, eh?" "Where's the rest of Barnshingle's staff? They were together on the crater-viewing expedition?" "All tucked away in house few alleys from here. Better get wiggle on now. Climax of festival arrive soon." "Good night, does your silly old carnival mean more to you than your own planet?" Miss Braswell demanded. "Voom festival of great national importance," Oo-Plif stated, opening and closing his bony mandibles like the two halves of a clam -- a mannerism indicating polite amusement. Following the Yalcan's instructions, Relief squeezed through narrow passages, found his way out into the inevitable dark alley. Miss Braswell's hand holding tightly to his. The sounds of looters and their vehicles had diminished to nearsilence now. A turbine growled along a nearby street, going away. They came out into a side street, surveyed the deserted pavement, the scattered discards of the Groaci homesteaders. Above the low roof-lines, the miledistant towers of the shrine were a blaze of gorgeous light. "It looks so pretty, all lit up," Miss Braswell said. "I'm just amazed that you'd let those nasty little Groaci walk in and take it all away from you." Oo-Plif laughed, a sound like sand in a bearing. "Towers tributes to deities. Fate of towers in deities' hands now." "Hmmmph. They could have used a little help from you," Miss Braswell sniffed. "Looks like the new owners have cleared out for now," Relief said. "All over at the towers, throwing a party in honor of Independence Day." "Time go to dandy hot bog," Oo-Plif said. "Big event soon now." Moving briskly along the empty street under the light of the fourth moon, now high in the sky, they reached the corner. Down the wider cross-avenue, the flaring torches of the revelers at the bog sparkled cheerfully. The faint sound of Yalcan voices raised in song were audible in the stillness. "Just what is this big event we're hurrying to make?" Retlief enquired. Oo-Plif indicated the large satellite overhead. "When number four moon reach position ten degrees west of zenith -- Voom!" "Oh, astrological symbolism." "Not know big word. Only one time every ninety-four years standard all four moon line up. When this happen -- Voom!" "Voom," Relief said. "Just what does the word signify?" "Fine old Yalcan word," Oo-Pliff said. "Terry equivalent... ummm ff IF "Probably untraaslatable." Oo-Plif snapped the fingers of his upper left hand. "I remember,' he said. "Mean 'earthquake'!" Relief stopped dead. "You did say -- 'earthquake'?" "Correct, Retief-Tic." Relief's left fist slammed out in a jack-hammer punch to the Yalcan's midriff plates. The tall creature ooffed, coiled into a ball, all four legs scrabbling, the four arms groping wildly. "Sorry, pal," Retief muttered, catching up the power gun. "No time to argue." He grabbed Miss Braswell's hand and started off at a dead run down the deserted street toward the towering castle of light. VI T hey skidded to a halt at a gleam from an opening door ahead. A pipe stem-legged Groaci hurried from a building, a bulging sack over one knobby shoulder. A second helmeted looter trotted behind, lugging a handsome ten-gallon spittoon. "They've got a heli," Retief said softly. "We need it. Wait here." Miss Braswell clutched his hand even tighter. "I'm scared!" The two scavengers were clambering into their dark machine now. Running lights sprang into diamond disengaged his hand, ran across the thirty feet of open pavement and jumped, just as the heli lifted. There were faint, confused cries from the startled Groaci. One fumbled out a power rifle in time for Retief to jerk it from his grasp, toss it over the side. The heli canted wildly, narrowly missing a decorated cornice. Retief got a grip on a bony neck, propelled the owner over the side, heard a faint yelp as he hit. An instant later, the second followed. Retief caught the controls, brought the heli around in a tight turn, dropped it in beside Miss Braswell. "Oh! I was afraid it was you that fell overboard, Mr. Retief!" She scrambled up beside him, lent a hand to tumble the gaboon out to smash thunderously on the tiles. On a nearby roof, the two dispossessed Groaci keened softly, like lost kittens. The heli jumped off, lifted swiftly past them and headed for the glass towers. T he city of glass spread over forty acres, a crystalline fantasy of towers, minarets, fragile balconies suspended over space, diaphanous fretwork, airy walkways spun like spiderwebs between slim spires ablaze with jewel-colored light. Retief brought the heli in high, settled in a stomach-lifting swoop toward the tallest of the towers. "Miss Braswell, you can operate this thing, can't you?" "Sure, I'm a good driver, but -- Retief threw the drive into autohover three feet above a tiny terrace clinging to the spire. "Wait here. I'll be back as soon as I can. If anybody else shows up, get out of here fast and head for the bog!" "The... the bog?" "It's the safest place around when the quake hits!" He was over the side, across the five-foot wide shelf dark shadows moved on the pebbleof water-clear glass, and through an glass ceiling. Retief went up, caught opening arched with intertwined a brief glimpse of five richly draped glass vines hung with sparkling scarGroaci under an ornate chandelier, let and purple berries. A narrow stair fingering elaborate Yalcan wine wound down, debouching into a glasses and clustering about the round chamber walled with transstooping, chinless figure of Minister parent murals depicting gardens in Barnshingle. the sun. Through the glass, lighted " -- pleasure to deal with realists windows in the next tower were like yourselves," the diplomat was visible, and beyond, the silhouettes saying. "Pity about the natives, of of half a dozen Groaci and a tall, course, but as you pointed out, a paunchy Terrestrial. little discipline -- " Retief foCind more stairs, leaped Retief knocked two Groaci spindown them, whirled through an ning, caught Barnshingle by the arm, archway of trellised glass flowers, slopping his drink over the crimson A narrow crystal ribbon arched cuff of his mess jacket, across the void to the lighted entry "We've got to go -- fast, Mr. Minopposite. He pulled off his shoes, ister! Explanations later!" crossed the bridge in five quick Fiss hissed orders; two Groaci steps. darted away and another rushed in Voices were audible above, and to be stiff-armed. Barnshingle chokIF ed, spluttered, jerked free. His face had turned an unflattering shade of purple. "What's the meaning of this outburst?" "Sorry, Mr. Minister." Relief slammed a clean right cross to Barnshingle's jaw, caught the diplomat as he folded, stooped to hoist the weight to his shoulders, and ran for the door. Suddenly Groaci were everywhere. Two bounced aside from Relief's rush; another ducked, swung a power gun up, fired just as Fiss leaped in and knocked his hand aside. "To endanger the bloated one," he hissed -- and went over backwards as Relief slammed him aside. A helmeted Groaci Peace-keeper tackled Relief from behind; he paused to kick him across the room, bowling over others. A blaster bolt bubbled glass above his head. The air hissed with weak Groaci shouts as Relief plunged down stairs. Behind him, there was a terrific crash; over his shoulder he caught a glimpse of glass chips showering from a fallen chandelier. He was at the bridge now; Barnshingle groaned and flapped his arms feebly. Relief stepped onto the narrow span, felt it sway under his weight. He took two steps, put a foot over the edge, teetered -- There was a crystalline tinkle, and a ten-foot spear of canary-yellow glass fell past him. He caught his balance, took another step, wobbled as the bridge quivered, leaped clear as the glass shattered into ten thousand glittering shards that sparkled as they fell. H e went up stairs three at a time. A sudden lurch threw him against the wall, where mosaic glass figures depicted glass blowers at work. A huge chunk of the scene fell backwards, letting in a gust of cool night air. Relief scrambled for footing, went up, felt a glass slab drop from underfoot as he gained the terrace. Wind beat down from the heli, hovering a few yards distant. The sparkling tower that had loomed nearby was gone. A sustained crashing, as of nearby surf, drowned the heli's turbos. Relief lowered Barnshingle, now pawing weakly and blinking vague eyes, half lifted, half shoved him into the rear seat. "Hurry, Mr. Relief! It's going!" The noise was deafening now. Relief grasped a strut to pull himself up, and suddenly he was hanging by one hand, his feet treading air. The heli surged, lifting. He looked down. The tower was dropping away below, a cloud of vari-colored glass splinters puffing out as the upper stories thundered down into the depths. A slender sapphire spire, thrusting up almost alone now, rippled like a dancer, then broke into three major fragments and dropped gracefully from view. Relief hauled himself up, got a foot inside the heli, pulled himself into the seat. "Mr. Relief, you're bleeding." He put a hand up, felt slickness across his cheek. "A lot of splinters flying around. It was a little too close -- " "Mr. Relief!" Miss Braswell worked frantically at the controls. "We're losing altitude!" There was a harsh droning noise. Retief looked back. A heavy armored heli with Groaci markings was dropping toward theni. "Make for the bog!" Retief called over the racket. There was a buzz, and garish light glared across the struts above Relief's head, bubbling paint. "Hang on!" Miss Braswell shouted. "Evasive action!" The heli tilted, whipped up in the opposite direction, spun, dropped like a stone, darted ahead. The futile buzzing of the Groaci's blaster rattled around the faltering vehicle. "Can't do much more of that," Miss Braswell gasped. "Losing altitude too fast." A vast, dark shadow flitted overhead. "We're sunk," Miss Braswell squeaked. "Another one -- " There was a flare of actinic blue from above and behind, followed by a muffled clatter. Retief caught a glimpse of the Groaci heli, its rotors vibrating wildly, falling away behind them. Something huge and shadowy swept toward them from the rear in a rising whistle of air. "Get set," Retief called. He brought up the blaster he had taken from Oo-Plif, steadied his hand against the heli -- The shadow dropped close; the running lights' of the heli gleamed on thirty-foot canopies of translucent tracery spread wide above a sevenfoot body. Oo-Plif's gaily painted face beamed down at them. He floated on spread wings, arms and legs folded close. "Ah. Retief-Tic! Punch in thorax hasten metamorphis. Got clear of chrysalis just in time!" "Oo-Plif!" Retief yelled. "What are you doing here?" "Follow to warn you, dear buddy! Not want you to meet gods in lousy company like crowd of Fiveeyes! Now on to bog for festivities!" Below, the torch-lit surface of the swamp rushed up. Miss Braswell braked, threw herself into Retief's arms as the battered heli struck with a massive splatter at the edge of the mud. Painted Yalcan faces bobbed all around. "Welcome, strangers!" voices called. "Just in time for fun!" B arnshingle was groaning, holding his head. "What am I doing here, hip-deep in mud?" he demanded. "Where's Magnan? What happened to that fellow Fiss?" "Mr. Magnan is coming now," Miss Braswell said. "You bumped your head." "Bumped my head? I seem to recall -- " Someone floundered up, gasping and waving skinny, mud-caked arms. "Mr. Minister! These primitives dragged me bodily from the street!" "I thought you were going to stay inside the Legation," Retief said. "I was merely conducting a negotiation," Magnan huffed. "What are you doing here, Retief -- and Miss Braswell!" "What were you negotiating for? A private apartment just below the Ambassadorial penthouse?" IF "Wha -- whatever's happened?" Barnshingle burst out. "Where's the shrine gone?" He stared across at the glowing heap that marked the site of the fallen towers. "It seems to have -- ah -- been offered to the local deities," Magnan said. "It seems to be the custom." "And all those nasty little bugeyes with it," Miss Braswell put in. "Really, Miss Braswell! I must ask you to avoid the use of racial epithets!" "It's really too bad about the towers; they were awfully pretty." Oo-Plif, perched like a vast moth on a nearby tree-fern spoke up. "Is okay. Re-use glass. Make plenty bowl and pot from fragments." "But -- what about all those Groaci mixed in with the pieces?" "Impurities make dandy colors," Oo-Plif assured her. "My jaw," Barnshingle grated. "How did I fall and hit my jaw?" "Retief-Tic arrive in nick of time to snatch you from sacrificial pile. Probably bump chin in process." "What in the world were you doing there, Mr. Minister?" Magnan gasped. "You might have been killed." "Why, ah, I was trepanned there by the Groaci. Quite against my will, of course. They... ah... had some fantastic proposal to make. I was just on the point of daring them to do their worst when you appeared, Retief. After that, my recollection grows a bit hazy." #'"These head-blows often have A retroactive effects," Retief said. "I'll wager you don't recall a thing that was said from the time they picked you off that perilous mountain." "Don't remember? Why, I have perfect recall -- " "It's even possible that Oo-Plif has forgotten some of the things he overheard -- about penthouses and gilt-edge stocks." Retief went on. "Maybe it was the excitement generated by your announcement that Yale will be getting some large shipments of fine gray silica sand from Groac suitable for glass-making, "Announcement?" Barnshingle gulped. "The one you're going to make tomorrow," Retief suggested very gently. "Oh... that one," the Minister said weakly. "Time to go along now to next phase of celebration," Oo-Plif called from his perch. "How jolly," Magnan said. "Come along, Mr. Minister." "Not you, Magnan-Tic, and Barnshingle Tic-Tic," Oo-Plif said. Mating rites no place for elderly drones. You scheduled for cosy roost in thorn-tree as ceremonial penitence for follies of youth." "What about us?" Miss Braswell asked breathlessly. "Oh, time for you to get busy on youthful follies, so have something to repent later!" "You said... mating rite. Does that mean...?" "Vomm festival merely provide time, place and member of opposite gender," Oo-Pliff said. "Rest up to IF  Short Storf , He was the maddest man you ever saw. tn fact, that was his career! T he too-happy puppy came bounding up to him -- a bundle of hysterical yipes and a waggling tail that would bring joy to the soul of anyone. The pathetic expectation and sheer love in the shining eyes and woolly rump was something to see. The whole world loves a puppy like that. And George Gnevni kicked the thing end over end and high into the air with a remarkably powerful boot. The sound that came from the broken creature as it crash-landed against a wall was a heart-rending wail that would have melted the heart of a stone toad. Gnevni was disgusted with himself. "Less than ten meters. Should have booted him twelve. Til kill the blood-sucking cod-headed little cur the next time. Nothing goes rigjit today." I t was not a real puppy; it was better than a real one. There is something artificial in the joy and carrying on of a real puppy as well as in its hurt screaming. But the antics of this one rang true. The thing was made by a competent artist, and it was well made. It could be set to go through the same routine again at a moment's notice. A Crippled Old Lady came up shaking with palsy. There was real beauty in her face yet, and a serenity that pain could never take away from her. "A glorious morning to you, my good man," she said to Gnevni. And he kicked her crutches out from under her. "I am sure that was an accident, sir," she gasped as she teetered and nearly fell. "Would you be so kind as to hand them to me again? I'm quite unable to stand without them." Gnevni knocked her down with a smacking blow. He then stomped up and down on her body from stem to stern. And with a heavy two-footed jump on her stomach he left her writhing on the pavement. Gnevni was again disgusted with himself. "It doesn't seem to do a thing for me today," he said, "not a thing. I don't know what's the matter with me this morning." It was a real lady. We are afraid of dog-lovers, but we are not afraid of people-lovers. There are so few of them. So the lady was not an artificial one. She was real flesh and blood, and the best of both. However, she was neither crippled nor old. She was a remarkably athletic woman and had been a stunt girl before she found her true vocation. She was also a fine young actress and played the Crippled Old Lady role well. Gnevni went to his job in the Cortin Institute Building that was popularly known as the Milk Shed. "Bring my things, crow-bait," he grumbled at a nice young lady assistant. "I see the rats have been in your hair again. Are you naturally deformed or do you stand that way on purpose? There's a point, you know beyond which ugliness is no Icxnger a virtue." The nice young lady began to cry, but not very convincingly. She went off to get Gnevni's things. But she would bring only a part of them, and, not all of them the right ones. "Old George isn't himself this morning," said the under-doctor Cotrel of Gnevni. "I know," said under-doctor Devon. "We'll have to devise something to get him mad today. We can't have him getting pleasant on us," T he required paranexus could not be synthesized. Many substances had been tried and all of them had been found insufficient. But the thing was needed for the finest operation of the Programmeds. It had to be the real thing, and there was only one way to get a steady supply of it. At one time they had simplified it by emphasizing the cortin and adrenalin components of it. Later they had emphasized a dozen other components, and then a hundred. And finally they accepted it for what it was -- too complex for duplication, too necessary an accessory for the Programmeds to be neglected, too valuable at its most effective to be taken from random specimens. It could be had only from humans, and it could be had in fine quality only from a special sort of humans. The thing was very complex, but at the Institute they called it Oil of Dog. Peredacha was a pleasant little contrivance -- a "Shadier Movement" or "female" of the species that had once been called homo cori' ventus or robot and was now referred to as "Programmed Person". She had a sound consciousness, hint of developing originality, a capacity for growth and a neatness of mechanism and person. She might be capable of fine work of the speculative sort. She was one of those on whom the added spark might not be wasted. Always they had worked to combine the best elements of both sorts. The Programmed Persons were in many respects superior to the Old Recension Persons or Humans. They were of better emotional balance, of greater diligence, of wider adaptability, of much vaster memory or accumufation and of readier judgment based on that memory. But there was one thing lacking in the most adept of the Programmed that was often to be found in the meanest of the Humans. This was a thing very hard to name. It was the little bit extra; but the Programmed already had the very much extra. It had something of the creative in it, though the Programmed were surely more creative than the humans. It was the rising to the occasion; the Programmed could do this more gracefully, but sometimes less effectively, than could the humans. It was the breaking out of a framework, the utter lack of complacency, the sudden surge of power or intellect, the bewildering rriastery of the moment, the thing that made the difference. It was the Programmed themselves who sought out the thing, for they were the more conscious of the difference. It was the Programmed technicians who set up the system. It cost the humans nothing, and it profited the Programmed very much in their persons and personalities. On many of them, of course, it had little effect; but on a select few it had the effect of raising them to a genius grade. And many of them who could never become geniuses did become specialists to a degree unheard of before -- and all because of the peculiar human additive. It was something like the crossing of the two races, though there could never be a true cross of species so different -- one of them not being of the reproductive sort. The adrenal complex sometimes worked great changes on a Programmed. There were but a few consistent prime sources of it -- and each of them somehow had his distinguishing mark. Often a Programmed felt an immediate kinship, seldom reciprocated, with the Human donor. And Peredacha, a very responsive Programmed, felt the kinship keenly when the additive was given to her. "I claim for paternity," she cried. It was a standard joke of the Programmed. 'T claim as daughter to my donor! I never believed it before. I thought it only one of those things that everybody says. The donors are such a surly bunch that it drives them really violent if one of us seeks their acquaintence on thi pretext. But Fm curious. Which one was it?" She was told. "Oh no! Not him of the whole clutch! How droll can you get? He is my new kindred? But never beIP fore did I feel so glorious. Never have I been able to work so well." T he assigned job of George Gnevni was a mechanical one. In the ordinary course of things this would be all wrong, for George had less mechanical aptitude than any man ever born. George had very little aptitude for anything at all in the world -- until his one peculiar talent was discovered. He was an unhandsome and graceless man, and he lived in poverty. Much has been said about the compensations of physical ugliness -- mostly the same things that have been said about poverty. It is often maintained that they may be melded behind the dross front, that the sterling character may develop and shine through the adversity. It is lies, it is lies! It happens only rarely that these things are enobling. With persons of the commoner sort it happens not at all. To be ugly and clumsy and poor at the same time will finally drive a man to raving anger against the whole world. And that was the idea. Gnevni was assigned a mean lodging, and his meal tickets were peculiar ones. He could not obtain what he wanted to eat. He could have only what was on the list for him to eat, and this was evilly contrived to cover everything that disagreed with him. As a result he was usually in gastric pain and in seething anger at his own entrails. He had an ugly nature to begin with, but the form of life forced upoo him deepened and nurtured it. Gnevni's voice was harsh and jangling, though there was real mastery of resonance in his powerful howling when his anger reached high form. He was denied wifing privileges, and no woman would have had him in any case. He was allowed just enough of bad whoajohnny whisky to keep him edgy and mean, but not enought to bring him solace. He was an oaf -- an obscene distasteful clod of humanity. He Knew it and he boiled and seethed with the shoddy knowledge. He was no better than a badger in a cage, but those things are terrific snappers. For his poor livelihood he was given a quota of mechanical tasks to complete every day, and he had no mechanical aptitude at all. They were simple assembly jobs. A competent Programmed Person could do in minutes what it took Gnevni all day to do. Most children of the human species could do the same things easily and quickly -- though some might not be able to do them at all, for the Humans are less uniform in their abilities than the Programmed. The things that Gnevni was to assemble were never all there, some of them were the wrong things, and some of them were defective. A Programmed would have spotted the off stuff at once and sent it back, but ugly George had no way of telling whether things were right or not. He sweated and swore his days away at the grotesque labor and became the angriest man alive. Joker tools were sometimes substituted on him for the true tools -- screwdrivers with shafts as flexible as spaghetti, key-drifts with noses as soft as wax, box-end wrench sets that were sized to fit nothing, soldering guns that froze ice on their tips, mis-marked calipers with automatic slippage, false templates, unworkable crimpers, continuity testers that shocked a man to near madness. It is a legend that humans have an affinity for mechanical things. But normal humans have an innate hatred for machinery, and the accomodation that has grown up between them is a nervous one. The damned stuff just doesn't work right. You hate it, and it hates you. That's the old basic of it. Swift, a wise old mad man, once wrote a piece on the "Perversity of Inanimate Objects". And they are perverse, particularly to a sick, ugly ignorant, incompetent, poor man who fights them in a frenzy -- and they fight back. All day long George Gnevni and a few of his unfortunate fellows attacked their tasks explosively -- the air blue with multi-syllabled profanity, and anger dancing about like summer lightning. Now and then, people came and inserted tubes into these unfortunates, and performed some other indignities upon them. The paranexus, the complex substance, the "Oil of Dog" that was needed for stimulation of the Programmed, while it could be taken from any humans, could only be had in its prime form from a depraved, insane sort of Very Angry Men, B ut today George Gnevni was not himself. There was only a sullenness in him, not the required flaming purple anger. "We have to prod him," said under-doctor Cotrel. "We can't waste a whole day on him. He's sick enough. He tests at a high enough pitch of excitement. Why won't he put out? Why won't he get mad?" "I have an idea," said under-doctor Devon. "We have an inner-office memo that one of the Programmed has recognized kinship with him. You remember when Wut was in a slump? We got a Programmed up here who threw an arm around him and called him Uncle Wilbur. The way Wut exploded, seismographs must have recorded the shock at a considerable distance. We had to move fast to prevent him from damaging the Programmed. And then Wut was so mad that we were able to use him around the clock for seventy-two hours. How our Very Angry Men do hate the Programmed! They call them the things." "Good. Anything that worked on Wut ought to work double on Gnevni. Get the Programmed Person up here. We'll have him at ugly George." "Her. She's a Shadier Movement Programmed and so technically a female." "Better yet. I can hardly wait, Gnevni is the most spectacular of them all when he really goes wild. We should get a good production from him." Peredacha, the talented little Shadier Movement Programmed, IF came to the Cortin Institute Building -- the Milk Shed. She understood the situation and enjoyed it. Tlie Programmed have their humor -- more urbane than that of Humans, and yet as genuine -- and they appreciate the hilarity of an incongruous . confrontation. Peredacha was something of an actress, for all the Programmed have a talent for mimicry. She considered the role for a moment, and she put all her talent into it. And she did it! She made herself into the most pathetic urchin since the Little Match Girl. Yet she was a Programmed and not a Human; it was as though a gear box should put on a waifs shawl and turn tearjerker. They brought her in. 'Tapa!" Peredacha cried and rushed towards Gnevni. The attendants had closed between them to prevent damage when the anger of the low man should rise like a jagged wave. The show should have been greater than the one that Wut had once put on for less reason. Gnevni was a bigger man with more power of anger, and the situation was even more ridiculous. It should have set records on the decibel-recorder, filled the room with brimstone, and enriched the vocabulary of scatologyBut it didn't. The face of George Gnevni was slack, and he shook his heavy head sadly. "Take the child away," he said dully. "I will not be responsible for my feelings today." I t was a new morning and George Gnevni must return to his brutal livelihood. A too-happy puppy came bounding up to him -- a bundle of hysterically gay yipes with a waggling rump and tail hitched on to them. "Hello, little fellow," Gnevni said and bent down to pet it. But the puppy was not programmed for such treatment. It was made to be kicked by angry men. It threw itself into a series of reverse somersaults and heart-rending wails as though it had been kicked indeed. "Oh, the poor little toy!" said Gnevni. "It has never known kindness." "Look, Gnevni," said an inferior sort of man who came up, "the dog was made for one thing only -- so that twelve or thirteen of you hotfires could kick it every morning and get into your mood. Now kick to." "I won't do it." "ni report you." "I don't care. How could anyone harm that poor little tyke?" The Crippled Old Lady came up -- shaking as with palsy. "A glorious good morning to you, my good man," she said to Gnevni. "And a fine morning to you, my lady," he said. "What? You're not supposed to say that! You're supposed to kick my crutches out from under me and then knock me down and trample on me. It helps get you in your mood. Crippled Old Ladies are infuriating sights to the Very Angry Men; they make them even angrier. Everybody knows that." 'I just don't believe that I will do it today, ah -- Margaret, is that not your name? A fine day to you, my dear." "Knock off that fine day stuff! I have my job to do. I'm a mood piece. You blow-tops are supposed to kick out my crutches and tromp me down to get in your mood. Now start kicking or I'll report you." "Do so if you must, my dear." G nevni went to his job in the Cortin Institute Building, and there he was good for nothing. Mad? He wasn't even sullen He was puzzled and pleasant, and when you have one of the old stand-bys go pleasant on you you're in trouble. He was civil to everybody and gave them all the jitters. He completed his mechanical tasks in an hour -- finding them much easier when he attacked them calmly. But he wasn't supposed to find them easier. So there was consternation in the Department. Gnevni had been the best producer of them all. They couldn't let him go by like that. "Damn you, get mad!" under-doctor Cotrel shouted and shook him. "We won't have any malingering on the job. Get mad and start putting out." "I just don't seem able to get mad today," said Gnevni honestly. "You double-damned will get mad, you crud-head!" pursued under-doctor Cotrel. Cotrel seemed rather upset himself. "Under-doctor Devon! Over-doctor Ratracer! Director Duggle! Come help me with this pig-headed fellow. He won't get mad." "He's got to get mad," said underdoctor Devon. "We'll make the filtheating fink get mad." "It looks bad," said Director Duggle. "He was at only half efficiency yesterday, and today he's good for nothing at all. Well, put him through the routine. We can't have him going sour at us." They put him through the routine. It was brutal. It would have made a roaring devil out of the sweetest saint. Even spectators commonly became white with fury when such a thing was put on, and there was no limit to the effect on the victim. Gnevni endured it with composed sorrow but without anger. And when even the routine didn't work what more could you do to him? Under doctor Cotrel began to cuff and kick him: "Get mad, you slimy sulphurous son of a she shink! Get mad, you mud-headed old monkey! Get mad, you dirt-eating mutthead! You slobber-mouthed donkey, get mad!" They brought in others. They even brought in Peredacha -- hoping she would have a more positive effect on him than she had had the day before. But Gnevni brightened up to see her. "Ah, it is my little daughter! I sent you notes at intervals through the evening and night, but I guess you did not receive them. It is so wonderful just to see you again." "Why you bat-whiskered old bum, was it you who sent those notes? 'Sweet papa'. You? By the shop where I was made, I never heard of anything like it before!" "Do not be cruel, Peredacha. You IF are all that I care for in the world. With you I could become a new man." "Well, not being human I guess I can be humane. I'll look after you, ugly papa. But they don't want you to become a new man; as the old one you were the best they had. Come now, get mad for the people. It's your job." "I know, but I'm unable to do it. I have been thinking, Peredacha, that since you are my daughter in a way -- cortin of my cortin and adrenalin of my adrenalin -- perhaps the two of us might go off somewhere and -- " "Holy howling hog!" Under-doctor Cotrel took off in a screech too high for the human ear to follow, so perhaps only Peredacha heard and flushed. And then Cotrel broke up completely. He kicked and beat on Gnevni. He shrilled and sobbed and gobbled. And when his sounds once more became intelligible it was a screaming, "Get mad, damn you, get mad!" Cotrel was a lean man, but powerfully corded and muscled, and now every cord of muscle and nerve stood glaringly out on him black and purple. That plan was plain frantic in his displeasure at Gnevni. The flying foam from his lips flecked the room -- something you would not have expected from under-doctor Cotrel. #Tt is all right," said Director X Duggle. "Gnevni was about finished in any case. The best of them are only good for a year or two -- the pace is a terrific one. And we are lucky to have his replacement ready at hand." "Replacement?" pared the livid Cotrel. "He's got to get mad! There isn't any replacement." And he continued to strike Gnevni. "I believe that the director has you in mind, Cotrel," said over-doctor Ratracer. "Yes. I am sure of ii." "Me? I am under-doctor Cotrel! I make five hundred Guzman d'or a month!" "And now you will make five," said Director Duggle. "Grinding poverty is a concomitant of your new job. I had suspected you had a talent for it. Now I am sure. You begin immediately. You become the latest, and soon I hope the best, of the Very Angry Men." Cotrel became so, and immediately. Gnevni had been good. Wut before him had been one of the best. But for carrying-onnoise and stink generally, there was never such an exhibition as Mad Man Cotrel now put on -- getting into the spirit of his new job. He was the maddest man you IF  Novelette The surf was perfect, the reef was ideal -- whof difference did it make if it wasn't of Earth? I D angeiously overbalanced by his long fire-engine-red surfboard, the boy tried to climb down the cliff. White gujls ballooned in the updraft of wind against the dusty white cliff... He slipped. His skinny feet scurried for footholds down the crumbling chalk. The high wind of the Pacific Ocean knifed his wide eyes, and the hissing updraft lifted his red surfboard like a wing in his arms. Staggering high above the high-tide surf, he fell downward. "The same to you!" The fallen boy spat chalk and sand and the taste of blood. With stinging knees, he knelt on the narrow beach beside his red surfboard, fingering the chalk-streaked dents. "You dinged my board, too!" The seawind ruffled his thick brown thatch of hair. On top of his bent head, his fluttering hair glowed yellow from his mother's pero.xide bottle, junior high school style. Surfer style. In the dazzling beach sunlight he wore a halo. But his stubborn lower lip was bleeding as he scowled down at the damage to his surfboard. Behind his back, the surface of the ocean writhed. A gleaming area as large as a football field bulged the surface, quivering, and sank down a few feet, forming rows of swells in deep water where no swells should be. The tide was going down, and low tide would expose it. It looked almost like the flank of a huge animal. And if any animal -- any Earthly animal -- were that bright purple color. 'Trning, the boy glared at theI shore-break, the steep waves breaking unridably close upon the sand, and looked no further out. His more alert brother would have noticed the disturbed water out there where the gulls were wheeling and crying. But the boy was scowling at his damaged surfboard again. "Crumby board! If I try to ride these waves, probably break in half." The surfboard already was a patchwork of fiberglass-cloth repairs disguised with red paint. It was his brother's old board, scarred from heroic wipe-outs onto the rodcs at Hammond's Reef, spectacular clobberings at Rincon Point, collisions at Huntington Beach concrete pier and other really great surfing spots where his brother wouldn't take him. His famous brother would raise his eyebrows in mock amazement that he, Ted, would even ask to tag along. "Decision negative." His head-shaking brother was a mighty suntan-lotion bronze with ooh-ah muscles from years of paddling surfboards, and a modest grin. To make it worse, his brother was an eager-beaver brain who got all "A's" last semester, a member of the -- bugles, please -- California Scholastic Federation. Worse still, his brother had poked thermometers into sea anenomes and won First Prize in the Science Fair. He got his picture in the newspaper. Now, instead of watching television like a normal guy, his brother studied right through Midnite Movie. His brother was praying for a scholarship to Stanford to study marine biology. His brother was sweating out the National Merit Scholarship Tests. His brother had developed a temper like a hand grenade. Groaning, his brother would now permit himself only two hours of surfing per week. During those two hours -- "Go home!" his brother would yell when Ted followed his brother's surfing club to the beach. "Go home. You can't surf. These waves are too big. You'll get clobbered. And don't break any bottles on the beach, you gremmie!" His brother surfing buddies would laugh like crazy. "I am not a gremmie." Alone beneath the chalk cliff, now the boy glared seaward at the unridable five-foot high shorebreak. These waves crashed straight down with popping noises. Their white soup jumbled straight in over the high-tide sand. He knew that the straight shape of the beach and the deep water directly offshore made this place impossible for surfing. Surfers never came here, so he could practice stupidly riding the soup all day without anybody laughing at him. He waxed his board. He dragged it into the knee-deep soup. He still did not notice what had happened out in deep water. W hirling, he vaulted on to his board. As he tried to stand erect, his board shot out from under him like a cake of soap. He fell backward, plopping awkwardly in the shallows. He sprang up, glancing guiltily at the cliff-top. There was no one to witness his embarrassment. Dripping, he chased after his board. The wind turned icy. The next try, his board twisted beneath his feet like a treacherous snake, and he fell sideways, flailing the air with one arm, ending up with an earful of sand. The tide was going down, and he kept falling off his board and trying to stand up on it, and falling off and trying to stand up with endless determination. His scoutmaster had described him: "Most single-minded kid I ever saw. Spends all day trying to tie one knot. Also most unobservant. Lucky we don't live in Africa. Fd tell him to pitch his tent between four tree trunks, and he'd pitch it underneath an elephant. That kid's narrow eyes would never notice." Lower lip thrust out, when Ted tried the soup again he stood up all the way to the beach -- almost. Toppling forward, he leaped, landing deftly on his feet, and his board whacked him across the shins agonizingly. "Fll show him! I can too surf! Some day -- great big eight-foot walls breaking on Hammond's Reef -- when my crumby brother chickens, Fll ride one. I will! Or a tube, a really big tube breaking along the Santa Barbara sandspit -- ten feet high," he lapsed into pure fantasy, " -- twenty feet high at -- at the Banzai Pipeline in Hawaii." All this time the tide was going down. Staring out at the vast Pacific, Ted blinked. Way out there, shimmering semicircular bulges rose in the water as if swells were passing over a submerged reef. "There's no reef out there!" As he watched, one of the swells creamed over, at least two hundred yards from shore, an easy downpouring like Waikiki. "Like wow!" He could hardly believe it. His brother had taken him spearfishing out there, sloshing around with fins and masks, and there hadn't been any reef. The water had been twenty feet deep with dark beds of pebbles and weeds and light patches of sand -- nothing to make these perfect surfing waves build up. Why now? "Don't ask no questions," he whispered his junior high school motto, "just have fun, man!" P addling out with hurried strokes, as if his reef would swim away or something, Ted discovered it was a heck of a long way out there. IF Those waves were big, with white teeth. "Worst can do -- is clobber me," he gasped, paddling harder. Ahead of him a glassy swell stood up, with flashing schools of anchovies silhouetted above his head. And up. His board flopped safely over its unbroken crest.' He paddled beyond the break and came about. This reef seemed to cover as much space as a football field with an upward bulge near the fifty yard line. Vaguely, briefly, he imagined it was some sort of sandpile down there. But imagination was something he didn't fuss with. That was his brother's department. His sunburned nose wrinkling, Ted grinned with excitement. Never had he tried to catch a wave as big as the monster swell that was building up over the reef and gliding toward him. "No questions," he thought, paddling like mad to stay ahead, to catch the curl or be cleaned-up. "Just got to surf, man." He glanced back blurry-eyed as the swell loomed, then heaved under him. Like an elevator it lifted his board, and the nose of his surfboard lunged out over nothingness. In that instant of truth, he didn't chicken, didn't backwater, didn't ask questions. "Yeeoww!" His mischievously grinning junior high school science teacher had written on the blackboard: In the Universe of men and oceans, planets and space, there are galaxies of answers so amazing that we don't even know their questions. "Give us -- a new and astounding question -- uh -- Ted." "Huh?" Ted had blushed, hotfaced, the schoolroom dim to his eyes because he had been staring out the window. He scratched his Tshirt with embarrassment. He didn't know what to answer. A questioner he didn't want be. All he wanted was to be a surfer -- the greatest surfer who ever lived! "Yee-oww-eeeee!" Triumphantly shouting, he stood erect upon his surfboard. His surfboard seemed to grow eyes and a brain, a built-in guidance system, as it slid down across the face of the wave, a perfect right-slide away from the bulging center of the reef. "I am an eagle!" In his self-imposed ignorance, Ted didn't even know this surfer-shout had originated from the excited word-signals of an early Russian cosmonaut, circling the Earth. The ocean spray whirled past his triumphant face. Away from the influence of the reef the wave smoothed out and his board slowed. Ted shuffled backward, stalling his surfboard and swinging its nose seaward over the declining hump of the swell without falling off. He dropped to his knees, paddling back toward the wonderful new reef, grinning and wheezing with exertion. "Man, if my big-wheel brother -- saw that great ride -- me -- his eyeballs would drop out!" H is brother's eyeballs would have become somewhat distended if he had taken a close look at the reef. But even Ted's brother would not have been able to ask the inspired question, the astounding question IF which could lead to an answer, an explanation of the reef. The key question was too wild: Question: What is the connection between the appearance of this reef and the sudden disappearance back in # of our Mariner IX space probe? If asked, Ted would have guessed a Mariner was a -- uh -- not a sailor -- a satellite, maybe? His brother would have described it as a deep space probe physically resembling a miniature oil derrick and programmed to orbit a neighboring planet. At least. Mariner IX was. It also could react to command signals from Earth, radioing back information its sensors -- its primitive electrical nervous system -- had collected. Its behavior patterns were far less complicated and less flexible than a rat's. In this respect, Ted's brother would have compared it to an amoeba -- A glittering mass of water curled high above the reef, a hollowed wave that made Ted shout with joy: "A tube, a real tube!" There couldn't be much water over the center of the reef to make such a beautiful tube. The tide was going down, he thought. Hurriedly, he positioned his surfboard across the center of the reef when the wave came. He wanted to try to go right through the next tube the way big guys did in surfing movies in Hawaii. His eyes widened. Big swell coming; should he or shouldn't he? Ted took a little chicken-hearted forward stroke. Before he could backwater, his board took off across the face of the wave as if it had a mind of its own, right-sliding down and down until the crest teetered high above him and his board was shooting along the foot of the liquid cliff. His right hand extended as if to hold back the overhanging wavetube. The crest toppled above his head as he ran toward the nose of his board, trying to increase speed before the tunnel-like wave ate him. Even his imaginative brother would not have considered that an answering space probe would enter Earth's gravitational field. This was five months after Mariner IX unexpectedly went silent, only five months after Mariner IX emitted a last squeak more characteristic of a rat than an amoeba. The embarrassing silence that followed the newspapers had blamed on another of the long history of short-circuits, electrical malfunctions and battery failures which had plagued the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Privately, certain ulcerous administrators cursed the day that electricity was -- uh -- invented. In their tortured imaginations they even an organic space probe, if it promised to be free of short-circuits, electrical malfunctions, battery failures and congressional investigating committees. Ted's brother would have laughed: "Impossible! Living protoplasm unshielded can't survive the vacuum and hard radiation of outer space." The microscopic spore had entered Earth's gravitional field, drifted safely through the Van Allen radiation belt, spiraled inward tlu-ough the crowding atoms of Earth's upper atmosphere and settled in the Pacific Ocean. Its chromosomes had been artificially arranged, programmed so that it would grow in a predetermined pattern. When it was huge be able to generate jolts of electricity an electric eel would envy, and no short-circuits as it radioed back information its blind sensors had collected. It was the answering spaceprobe, growing huge as a roof along the ocean floor. T he nose of Ted's surfboard, pearl-diving, rammed into the reef. His arms spread like wings as he flipped over the nose of his board. The liquid roof caved in. His knees hit bottom. The blinding wave-surge dragged him along the reef and left him sitting there, exposed. Between swells the reef now had only six inches of water on it. To his surprise, his knees didn't feel scraped or skinned. Beneath his feet the reef felt rubbery. As he peered down, he almost imagined he could see the bottom deep beneath him instead of right under his toes as he waded. Characteristically, his eyes narrowed with suspicion, as if he was afraid some big guys, like his brother, were playing a joke on him. But he still thought he could make out blurry beds of pebbles and weeds and light patches of sand, all as dim as if they were twenty feet below his bare feet. The next wave knocked him rumble-seat over the tea-kettle. In the deeped water inside the reef, wheezing and snorting, Ted dog-paddled toward shore, pursuing his surfboard. "Clobbered me -- but I can really surf!" Ted sloshed excitedly through the shallows after his surfboard, which was cruising upsidedown with its skeg-keel in the air like a little sail gleaming purple. Purple? "My crumby brother! What'd he do -- making my board's skeg turn purple?" The nose of his red surfboard, where it stuck the reef, was stained purple, too. "Doesn't rub off. But I'll twitch him. I'll show him I can really surf, man!" Dragging his board to the base of the chalk cliff, leaving it there unguarded, a stupid move in any man's language, Ted scrambled up the cliff and hot-footed over the burning concrete sidewalks for five blocks. iCTavid, David!" he yelled his way through the living room into his brother's bedroom. "I can surf. I can really surf! You got to see me. Big tubes, I been riding 'em. Really big like Hawa -- Leggo me. Ow!" "Then shut up, you gremmie, when I'm trying to study!" David seemed slightly irritated, like an awakened grizzly bear with his foot caught in a trap and attacked by hornets. "Everybody bothering me!" "Please, David, you got to see! Really big surfing waves." "Shut up. ril never win a National Merit Scholarship Award with you always bothering me!" David roared dramatically. "I got to study." IF "Beautiful surfing waves, David, on a reef like -- " "I'm never going surfing again," David groaned as if he was trying to win an Academy Award. 'Fantastico tubes like you never  "Get outa here! Get your dirty feet off my rug!" "Please, David! Just watch me ride one wave, just one wave." "You stupid crock, even your knees are purple. I said get your dirty purple feet off my rug." David bayoneted him backward off the rug with his hard-poking Karate finger. "You been wading in athlete's foot medicine. No, you little fiend, you been trampling sea hares. Purple sea slugs to you, you half-pint monster." "I have not! This purple won't hurt your crumby rug. See, this purple doesn't rub off," Ted yelled angrily. "All I wanted you to do was watch me ride one wave." "Shuddup!" The trigger word: wave, seemed to redouble David's fury. Breathing hard, he pinned Ted against the enormous metal short-wave radio transmitter cabinet. Its remaining knobs and switches felt uncomfortably bumpy against Ted's bare back. The transmitter had been partially dismantled because David had lost his ham radio license. The F. C. C. had taken it away after Federal Communications Commission investigators had discovered it was David who was experimenting on unauthorized wave lengths. "Just one wave, David," Ted squeaked. "No! No! No! I'm supposed to be studying. I'll never win a scholarship to Stanford now." David's room already was decorated with red and white Stanford pennants covering his butterfly collections, neatly pinned row on row. His Karate finger jabbed deeper into Ted's stomach. "Go away, you little gremmie." Ted tried to -- lunging sideways. His arm sloshed into David's twentygallon aquarium, tearing the black paper screening. D avid yelped with horror. "You've disturbed 'em." Two eyeless pink things emerged from the muddy tunnels at the bottom of the aquarium, darted about and vanished again. "How'll I win another Science Fair Award with you always bothering my blind gobies!" David was feeding them bait doped with fluorescent dye so that he could watch them in the dark. "Get away from my black light. You're dripping water on it, you crock!" David had caught the gobies, tiny blind fish, by digging up the mud-tunnels of ghost shrimps in a tidepool. In the aquarium he had laid a sheet of glass on the mud, a roof for their tunnels. In darkness, when David had turned on the ultra-violet fluorescent light, the gobies glowed purple as if they had been dyed. David had color-tagged them so he could watch their movements while the blind gobies thought they were in darkness, invisible. Glowing purple, they wriggled out of the tunnels of their host, the ghost shrimp, to search for more glowing purple food -- provided by David, the hardeyed experimenter. "Please, DavidI Just watch me ride one wave across the reef. You won't even have to climb down the cliff -- ." "What cliff? There's no cliff at Hammond's Reef." "This is. another reef, David. A better reef." "I got to study. What reef are you talking about?" Without thinking, Ted blurted the truth: "At the Chalk Cliff." "The Chalk Cliff?" David roared. "No surfing waves, no reef at the Chalk Cliff. Whatta you mean bothering me? Whatta you mean telling lies? No surfing at the Chalk Cliff. Not even you gremmies go there. The Chalk Cliff! Have a knuckleburger!" "Ow, David! A reef, a new reef. Don't cork me again, David." "Then say that you're a dirty lying bothering little gremmie. Go on, say it! -- There is no reef at the Chalk Cliff. "But there is a reef. Please, David! A surfers reef." "Now you got me so nervous I'll never study again. Everybody bothering me. I got to get out of here," David groaned. "I'm going to Hammond's Reef." But when David's # Ford "woodie" station wagon burped to a halt, it was at the Chalk Cliff. # #Qee, David! Look, David, real tubes! Look at 'em building out there on the reef!" David's adam's apple jiggled. Speechless,, he stood up through the hole in the roof of his "woodie." Finally, his voice squeaked with awe and joy. "I'm stoked! "A new reef, an anomaly, a phenomenon," David's voice faded as he whipped his surfboard over the tailgate of his "woodie." "Cow-a-bunga!" David yelled like a cornball and galloped down the slanting cliff as if he'd turned off the Law of Gravity. Like mad, as if he saw his Perfect Wave coming, David paddled toward the cresting reef. "Hey, wait, David, wait for me. It was me you came to watch ride one -- " By the time Ted finished falling down the cliff, his brother already was maneuvering his surfboard to take off into a tube. Erect, with perfect surfing form, David angled across the face of the wave toward the shallows of the hidden reef. His wave shimmered skyward above his head, rising and hollowing into a translucently green flowing tube. It was beautiful. David's board hit the invisible reef so hard he ran right off the nose and seemed to be running through the air when he vanished into a wave. He emerged, crawling eighteen inches above the water, when the wave passed. On all fours, David began thumping the air beneath him, his fists bouncing back as if he was hitting rubber. The next wave buried him. David reappeared standing on nothing. His raised hands glinted purple as he waded toward shore. Abruptly, he sank as he stepped off IF the edge of the reef. Splattering, he swam toward Ted's board. "Stay away or you'll (something) it," David gasped. "Delicate scientific exper -- I'll be famous. Careful scientific investigation." He wallowed hurriedly toward the beach. "Wait, David! Watch me ride one, just one wave." But David was retreating rapidly up the cliff. "Now watch me, David, watch me!" Taking off, sliding away from the center of the reef, Ted rose unsteadily on his board. "Look, David! Look at me ride!" But David had vanished behind his "woodie." Without falling off, Ted stalled his board and paddled out again. "Hey David, watch me this time!" David ploughed down the slanting cliff from his station wagon through rising chalk dust with something clutched in either hand. He splashed through the shallows after his capsized board. "Look at me, David, look at me ride." Ted fell off. David paddled past him muttering: "Be quiet, delicate scientific tests -- " A heavy ballpeen hammer dangling from one fist, David clambered on to the invisible reef. With the scientific delicacy of a blacksmith, David pounded a huge screwdriver into the reef. There was an electrical crackling. David rose. Ted glimpsed him rising ten feet above the ocean as the waves rolled back. Then David fell. The water spread bright purple. With more anger than surprise, Ted witnessed his reef and the protruding handle of David's screwdriver streaking out to sea like a periscope trailing purple foam. "You ruined my reef! You never even watched me ride one wave!" To Ted's disappointed yells, David made no reply. David's contorted face seemed purple. Even when David became the first National Merit Award Scholarship, he had very little to say. David spent his time scowling at His mirror. Purple? Now he could never go to Stanford. Their colors were red and white. Skin specialists insisted the purple dye would wear off, but it didn't. Not even sandpaper. Amazingly, David was as popular as ever. "Put on a gold-colored shirt to go with your cute purple face," David's buxom girl friend giggled, "and enroll at U. S. C. with me." The tragedy was Ted. "Everybody staring at me." Ted wouldn't go out of the house. "Everybody laughing at me. I'm not a cow. Everybody making jokes about a purple cow. Nobody liked me to begin with and now they say I'm a freak. At least you're purple all over, David. I'm all blotchy. I wish I was dead." In deep water the gigantic space probe had stopped contracting. It had dissolved the intruding screwdriver. Gradually it expanded along the bottom toward shore, huger than ever. As it bulged reef-like toward the surface, gulls whirled above the disturbed water. With a shriek, a gull veered away as if it had bounced off a plate glass window, and crashed into the sea. The gull's sodden breast feathers turned purple. It was dead. A cross the continent in New York's Yankee Stadium the pitcher loosed the first ball of the World Series. In the boys' bedroom Ted laughed at the portable TV, frantically twisting the horizontal control knob. There was nothing but a jumble of upward rolling lines and roaring static on every channel. "Wherever I go!" Ted shrieked. "Static's in here, too, so it isn't just the living room TV. It's everywhere I go. Being purple isn't enough. Now I can't even watch TV!" In the living room, that TV set shouted clearly: "Strike one!" Its perfect picture showed the batter turning to stare in amazement at the umpire's upraised arm. David had gone out into the hall. Now as he came back into the living room, the pitcher's intent face freckled with static snow. The picture rolled and David stepped closer to adjust the horizontal control. The pitcher's contorted faces peering to get the sign from the multiple vibrating catchers dissolved into a howling snowstorm. "Terrible static!" David backed away, eyeing the rabbit-ears antenna on top of the TV set, and the pitcher reappeared ghost-like through the snow and disappeared again as David reached toward the antenna. "Have I been electrified? Like that glass rod experiment -- rubbed with silk? Is it me, or -- ?" David ran out of the living room to look for his portable radio. The umpire shouted: "Strike two!" Scowling, the batter bent for a handful of dirt, but no one was watching him in the living room. David was out on the lawn, twisting the little portable radio from side to side. He ran back into the bedroom. "Listen, listen, Ted, the static's louder when I turn my portable this way. The aerial's wrapped around a little card inside my portable radio so that it's directional -- ." "I don't care about your lousy radio. I don't care about the World Series. All I care about is me. I'm a spotted freak. At least you're purple all over. It's all your fault Vm purple spotted." "What can I say?" David stared out the window, slowly turning the portable radio toward the sea, and the static blared. David peered at his brother's swollen purple eyes. "Somebody is shooting at us. We're not giving off static. I think we're reflecting k. Somebody is following each of us with a narrow radio beam -- aimed like a firehose -- no, like a laser. We're a couple of targets. That's what I think." "I don't care about goofy scientific stuff," Ted bleated. "So shut up with all that stuff. It's your fault, you and that lousy reef. I wish I was dead!" "Don't talk like that. Get my big IF speargun over there." David carried the portable radio. "Yes, outside. I want you to come outside. All right, put on your hat if you don't want anybody to see your stupid purple head." D avid led the way toward the Chalk Cliff. Ted tagged after him, lugging the heavy speargun. A home-made arbelete powered by four thick strands of rubber surgical tubing, the speargun had driven its steel harpoon shaft clear through a small leopard shark. Above the surface, freed from the resistance of the water, the speargun was more powerful and deadly. "Pm going to shoot that thing." Ted's purple eyelids slitted, and he glanced about. But there were no amused faces or pitying faces of neighbors to see his purple-blotched face. He stopped. Fitting the three-foot long steel shaft into the steel cup, hissing with effort, he stretched the rubber tubing, cocking the speargun like a hair-trigger crossbow. He ran after his brother. Ahead, gulls on the updraft whiteflagged the edge of the cliff. David was peering down. His back was bent. He wasn't saying anything. Ted stumbled. "Look, David, down there! Something shining on top of the water -- like a ghost." "That's what Pm looking at. Sunlight reflecting off the spray, the dried salt, the organs of its -- body. Hard to see what shape -- Hey you little idiot, don't shoot it!" "Keep away from me, David. You told me to bring the speargun." "Don't point it at me! Give it here." "Pm going to shoot. Keep away." "Listen, Ted, I told you wrong. Shooting it with the speargun isn't going to help us. We'll still be purple, Ted. Give me the speargun. I was a stupid crock to tell you to bring it. Shooting this thing when we don't know what will happ -- David lunged. Ted scuttled backward along the edge of the cliff. "Don't you aim it at me, Ted. I told you I was wrong to bring it. Shooting won't solve anything. Look what happened when I stuck a screwdriver in it. Pm just a crock, always poking things with pins or thermometers to see what they will do. Don't shoot it with the speargun!" "You keep away from me!" "Don't shoot it." David's voice softened. "Behind me, you hear the portable radio, hear the static. That thing down there's no worm. Only stupid crocks and gremmies -- " David's voice rose edgily -- "go around sticking and poking and pestering things they don't know anything about! "You hear the radio static!" David's voice brightened with promise. "That thing down there in the surf is broadcasting static, on unauthorized wavelengths. Yes, listen! I know how to make people believe us about this thing -- make people take us seriously -- so hand me the speargun." But Ted backed off, his narrow eyes slitted. IF "Hand me the speargun." David followed, "The F. C. C., the Federal Communications Commission men, remember how they caught me when I broadcast on unauthorized wavelengths. All we have to do is report this thing, and their tracer equipment will -- " Whirling at the brink of the cliff, Ted fired the speargun. The long steel harpoon shafted flashed downward like an arrow. Ted scrambled down the cliff toward the lashing sea. He wallowed in the purple staining shallows, even ducking his head into the spreading purple dye. "You stupid little gremmief' David violently dragged his brother out on to the purple sand. "What did you do that for? Now we don't know what it'll do. You idiot, after all I said, why -- why did you have to go and shoot it?" "At least," Ted gasped, purple dye streaming down his face, "at least now I'm purple all over like you. Leggo!" But David arm-locked his brother, rushing him toward the cliff. "Butt out of here! That thing is spoutii purple like a geyser." "Hope it dies," Ted wheezed as he climbed the cliff. "Look at my hands, like your hands now. But I don't want purple hands!" he cried out, clawing the purple chalk. He was sobbing as David shoved him up to the top of the purplesprayed cliff. Above him, purple gulls and purple fog rose in the updraft and swept inland on the sea wind. As the two boys ran toward home there was a purple mist before their eyes. P urple faces yelled in horror at each other and scattered into purple houses. A purple policeman stared helplessly at the purple sky. Purple defense officials shouted into purple telephones. A purple military mind instinctively pushed a purple button. The locks clicked in the deep missile silos. The clocks ticked while an A. S. W.plane, with a long magnetic-anomaly detector protruding from its tail like a stinger, droned low along the cliffs and over the purple surf. Its bomb-bay door opened. A fat gleam of metal tumbled downward through the air and splashed as the plane veered away in frantic evasive action. The purple explosion mushroomed toward the stratosphere. The organic probe of the third planet had blossomed, seeded. Catalytic molecules spread with the winds, triggering film of moispture which coated plants, planarian worms, plagiarists and platypuses, and everything was turning purple. Purple people ran randomly through the streets of Salt Lake City, Kansas City, Jersey City, their eyeballs purple with outrage. Purple cows chomped contentedly on the purple grass of Western Europe -- and Eastern Europe. Purple presidents and dictators shouted angrily back and forth via purple-moistured microphones. Louder and louder the static engulfed them. Static on all wavelengths was echoing from everyone all over the purple planet. E ven from outer space the Earth appeared purple. In perigee beSI yond the Moon, the translucently organic ship tipped as six eyes peered out, four ears wiggled. Three eyelids fluttered. boTH of US canT follOW the "O. K. K. K.! O. K. K. K., but trudER." "REally, I SHould HAve suc"INsufficient bralNS! MY sec"REally, DonT yoU think thE samE COlor, Will DEflect "NO!" gery?" SO!" The mouth-slit smiled. "BuT Due to mechanical difficulties this issue of IF was shipped late. Because of this delay, we have changed the dating from September to October. No issue will be dated September. The next issue will be dated November. This does not affect the contents. IF IP  Short Stor She was a maiden in distress, seeking aid against the brutes who refused to take her life! H e was reading in the living room of his late uncle's house when a piece of the dust ruffle detached itself from the couch and started moving. He watched distractedly, not paying any particular attention at first, then, curious, finally annoyed, because the thing would keep moving, and when it reached a point midway between the couch and his chair he got up and removed the dust ruffle with the tip of his shoe, revealing a bug as big as his hand. That night, in bed, he was reading again when he began plumping up the pillows for sleep. He thought it only an annoyance when the pillow on the left plumped back. He gave it another couple of pats, found as he turned over that it had disarranged itself and thumped it, really hard this time, with his fist. It seemed agitated, and as he gave it another thump something muscular and black slithered out of the pillowcase faster than he could apprehend it and began circling, rushing like a mad monorail around and around the baseboards of the room, going faster and faster until it dissipated itself finally and fell in a limp heap in the corner. His first thought was to get someone to help him remove it, but he was alone in the house, and he had not lived in the neighborhood long enough to get to know any of the neighbors. He picked it up on a broom (as he had the bug) and then, satisfied that he was alone in the room, he turned on his side and went to sleep. The next morning the wolfskin rug by his late uncle's bed seemed to come alive. It skittered around the floor like an outsized doormat, going along on four rubbery pink legs, and he bundled up the creature (whatever it was) in the wolfskin and dumped it out the window without even having a closer look. He had the strangest feeling, as he let it go and it plummeted down the hill, that it had been trying to tell him something. He was not a nervous man (he was, after all, a jMofessor of mathematics) but when his toaster belched twice and disgorged a covey of centipedes which massed and marched on him, coming rank on rank across the breakfast table, he said to himself, "This must stop," and he went over the house with a series of insecticides and heavy sticks, not turning up so much as a stray spider, or a single ant. He thought briefly of getting someone in to live with him, someone who was good with wild life. But he was a confirmed bachelor of independent leanings and he could not imaging himself accommodating another person, especially now, on his sabbatical. He was a small muscular man with a determined jaw and the head of a battle-scarred cat. The more he thought of asking someone else to help him cope, the less he liked it. "Hell with it," he said, giving the house a final once-over. Then he put crawling things out of his mind and went on up to bed. B ecause the insecticides lingered, he spent that night on the porch outside his uncle's secondstory room. It seemed high enough, and safe enough. He rather liked the way the hillside swept down and away from him, and the fact that the porch was no more than a platform with a low railing and a telescope, so that it was rather like sleeping at the edge of a cliff. He kept an eye peeled for wild life until nine or ten at least. Then, exhausted by the day's activities with insecticides, he curled up in his sleeping bag and went to sleep. He waked at three, not knowing why. The air was as sharp and chill as white wine. Each leaf on each of the black trees that overhung the porch seemed magnified in the early morning chill. He was aware of the leaves -- every one of them -- and could not keep himself from thinking of the thousands of leaves on thousands of twigs, all gathered to hang over him, each motionless and distinct. He sat up, wondering why in all this stillness he was trembling. Then, because he knew he would not sleep for a while, he got up and paced the porch, smoking, finally coming to a stop at his uncle's telescope. He turned it to the skies first, trying to sight the moon through a break in the trees. Then, realizing that it was set for closer ranges, he gave up and trained it on the valley below, looking over fields and sleepIF ing houses, fixing finally on a house on the hill which rose at the other side. The telescope was excellent at such distances. He could see figures framed in the picture window and then faces and finally expressions, warped and highlighted by a blue sharp relief and seemed to dominate the room. The house itself was a low, brick rambler, bourgeois and unremarkable except for the fact that there were three glossy, black cars pulled up around it, like cattle at a feeding station. The whole was lit by a powerful, unearthly blue glow that seemed important to the young man only in retrospect; at the time he was so taken up with the quarrel, or fight, going on behind the picture window that he hardly marked or noticed it. , There seemed to be four men in the room, three advancing on a fourth, arguing, finally coming to blows. They were shadows moving mechanical blue light which would strike him, as he looked back on it, as a conflagration of diamonds, cold and at the same time unquenchable. Behind the window the activity grew more atid more frantic. The men were furious now, mouths distended in shouts which the young man, watching through the telescope, could see but could not hear. They moved faster and faster, in growing violence. One had raised a stick, or an instrument, to strike another when all four stopped suddenly and faced what must have been the front door. The young man, watching, picked out the front door of the house and focussed on it, not ready to believe that there was indeed a woman in night clothes beating on the door with bare hands, or that her whole body shook with agitation, or that a plethora of hair billowed out and down her back. Before he could refocus his telescope to make sure, the front door opened and closed in a fraction of a second and the young woman disappeared. She had rushed in through a crack in the door -- or had been dragged -- and now she was inside. Growing stiff from the cold, he left his telescope just long enough to wrap himself in a blanket. By the time he refocussed the icy telescope, the blue glow was gone. The cars were still there, like beetles around the carcass of a larger beetle, and he imagined he could still see a crack of blue light between hastily-drawn drapes. But there was no sign of movement. Enthralled, suddenly, by the quick remembered image of the woman, he kept the telescope trained on the house across the valley, keeping his vigil until the sun came up and he went to sleep. Vhen he woke the half-remembered details came back like the hazy elements of a dream. But there was the telescope. When he trained it on the hill opposite there was the house, there were the signs of a quick departure, to verify what he had seen. He went down to breakfast, thinking on it. Later he took his morning paper to the living room, determined to put the whole thing out of his mind. When the dust ruffle began moving just as he reached for the sports section his first impulse was to trample it. But something made him lift it first, to see what he would be trampling, and he saw that this time it was a spider, and the spider had a note in its mouth. Once he had distracted the spider with a piece of salami and snatched the note from it, he found that it was in a clear, legible hand. It said, He did not have to guess who had sent it. He had known from the look of the woman's back as she had pounded on the door across the valley that she was beautiful, and that she needed help. "Strange," he said to himself, wanting to do something about it. Then he settled down to preparing his courses for the term which would follow his sabbatical, reminding himself that there was little he could do until he knew her whereabouts, or her problem, or at least her name. blacksnake dropped in his lap before it took off around the bedroom, Feeling a certain responsibility, he wrote a return note and popped it in the blacksnake's mouth . , . before he picked it up on a broom and tossed it out the window. and in a burst of loyalty kept the telescope trained on the house across the valley until he fell asleep. When he woke it was at that same still, dead time of night, and the house across the valley was alight. He watched the four men running around in growing excitement, saw them rise to a murderous pitch and then stop suddenly, and saw the woman fling at the door again and again, hammering with bare fists until it opened and someone jerked her inside; he imagined that she tipped him a wave just before the door closed on her. He knew from experience that he might as well go on back to bed. He shook the blacksnake out of his pillowslip without even looking at it, dumped the toads from his bedroom slippers and pushed the preying mantis off the nighttable, saying, all right, all right, with a touch of impatience, as he turned off the light. T he girl herself was standing in front of the fireplace as he brought his breakfast coffee into the living room. He had taken the note from the giant cockroach in the pantry without reading it and now he beheld the woman, who was lithe in black, and held two salamanders and a spider straining at a red patent leather leash. She whispered to the spider, which detached itself and made a little rush for his ankles. "Don't do that," he said, aiming a kick at it. The spider slunk away. "Oh, I'm sorry," the girl said in a voice like midnight. "I thought everyone liked pets." "Not everyone." He eyed the salaIF manders. "What's on your mind?" "Help. I'm from another planet and I need your help." "So I understand." He tugged at his tweed jacket, wishing he'd had the elbows patched. "Won't you have some tea?" She shook her head. "It's too urgent. The planets will only be in conjunction for the rest of the week, so we have to act fast." "We?" "You and I." "Why me?" "Because last time your uncle didn't," she said, curling up beside him. As he stiffened, she shooed the salamanders to the other side of the room. "I had him all lined up during the last conjunction. Then at the last minute he deserted me." "Died." Marcus corrected her. "Deserted me." She made a little mouth. "Sometimes I think he died on purpose. So he wouldn't have to go through with it." He hated arguments. "If you say so. Now what's going on over there?" "Ah," she said. "You found the telescope." "Well, yes. Now what's all this about Uncle Harry?" She shook her head sadly. "We were -- very close -- and he had it all figured out so I could go." "I don't understand." "It's perfectly simple," she said. "Those fools are in love with me." "What fools?" He gave the spider a nervous kick. "My countrymen. Garth ToglRammy and Seth. Well, all but Seth. He knows what his instructions are, and he's ready to go through with them." She looked at him brightly, "Thats what all the fighting's about." He looked at her blankly. "It's perfectly simple," she said, crossing her legs with a rustle of silk. "We were sent here ten years ago on a mission. I was in my early teens." She looked at him as if this explained everything. "I was an ugly teenager, when you get right down to it. That made the whole plan seem perfectly simple. We were to collect minerals -- and a certain amount of information -- for three years, and then report back to the sending station. The house across the valley. All we had to do was wait for a conjunction. Then the people at home would set things in motion and transport the boys." "The boys?" "Garth," she said patiently. "Togl. Rammy and Seth. But by the time the Conjunction came. I'd gotten -- well -- I'd grown. I was more or less as you see me, and three of the boys were in love with me. They wouldn't let Seth..." Marcus leaned forward suspiciously. "Wouldn't let him what?" "Set things in motion. The being." She looked at him for a minute, saw that he wasn't comprehending, and tried to simplify. "The machine. It's not really a machine, but it's not really a being, either. I don't know what it is, but when the planets are in conjunction, it's strong enough to disintegrate three people and recreate them somewhere else. "Three people," he said, disturbed. "Well, for, coming," she said. "It could take four going back, too, if we had the fuel..." That -- blue light I saw in the telescope?" "That's It. Seth takes care of It." "And the -- fuel?" # #y Te," she said with a lumin-LVl ous smile. "Pm a Catalyst. That's a very big deal, back home. You go out beautifully. You simply advance into It -- the being -- the machine -- and generate enough power to send any number of people anywhere in the uni,verse." She lifted her head proudly. "Pm told I'll be one of the best. That's why I was chosen for this mission." He was straining, trying hard to understand. "Then you..." "I'm all set, all ready. I've been waiting all my life for this, and now those stupid fools are in love with me and they won't let me get on with it." Marcus said with a sinking feeling, "It?" "My final assignment. Sending them home. It's the simplest thing in the world." She lowered thick, furry lashes on her cheeks and then looked up at him with eyes that clear. "All they have to do is feed me into it. Zip. Mission accompished, and they're on their way back home." "And you..." "Atomized." She seemed to glow. "Think of me in the breeze, in the air all around. IPs beautiful." Stroking the spider meditatively, she went on. "But they won't do it, because Garth and Rammy and Togl have all fallen in love with me -- and they're all bigger than Seth." She leaned forward. "That's why I need your help." "Help?" "Complete my mission. Go into the -- machine. Listen, say yes, and I'll tell you the plan." Appalled, Marcus came to his feet. "I don't want to hear your plan. Listen, when the conjunction is over, I want you to come back. I'd like you to come live with me." He waved his hands desperately. "PH marry you." "Then you won't help?" "How could I help, when it means your destruction and you're so..." She cut him off. "That's my trouble," she said with a sigh. "Everyone falls in love with me. Well, good-by." "Don't say good-by," he said because he coudn't help himself. "Say I'll be seeing you." "I won't be seeing you if I can help it," she said with a sniff. "This is the last night of the conjunction, and I'm going to find a way into that machine." He reached out, wanting to stop her. But she had gathered the spider and the salamanders and a hoptoad he hadn't even noticed until that moment. With a lovely, doomed wave she disappeared. N ot even the sports page could hold his interest after that. He went listlessly through the routine of the day, bored by calculus, dreaming over topology, seeing only her face, tenuous and changing, in all the convolutions of the problem in front of him. He found himself watching the IF dust-ruffle hopefully. He almost wished he would bump into a giant cockroach in the pantry and was frankly disappointed when he shook out his pillow-case at bedtime and the blacksnake was not there. He watched the house across the valley for what seemed like hours, until his eye was almost frozen to the eyepiece of the telescope. This time he was awake when the blue glow showed itself in the window, faint at first and then brighter, finally blinding, dizzying. He saw wSeth hurrying back and forth, serving it. As he watched the cars pulled up -- one for Garth, one for Togl, one for Rammy. He saw Seth go to the door to let them in. The three hulking aliens pushed wide the door, which Marcus noticed did not seem to have a handle, and swaggered in. As he watched they advanced on the fourth figure -- Seth -- in rising excitement and wrath. Then he saw the woman, Mavra, rushing out of nowhere. At the sight of the sweep of her hair and the curve of her back he could no longer contain himself. He rushed out of the house and into the tar, still in his pajamas, and hurled the car along the country roads, finding the house across the valley as surely as if he had been rehearsing that wild drive all his adult life. Blazing, terrified by the idea that she might succeed this time, and exist no more, he flung himself at the front door of the house. It opened easily. "Mr. Justice," she said, more beautiful even than he had remembered her. "Fm so glad you came." In the background, the three men were wrangling with Seth. "I had to come -- I had -- " "You had to help me." Her eyes were shimmering with gratitude. "Now if you'll just keep the others out of my way, Seth will -- " He was almost choked by urgency. "Help you, hell! I came to stop you. Which one is Seth?" "You've come to help us, then." A tall, craggy, rock-pile of a man advanced. "That's Garth," the girl whispered giving Marcus a little push. "And Togl and Rammy behind. The determined one -- that's Seth." "You think as we do." Almost tearful with gratitude, Rammy joined Garth. "We've got to make Seth see that he just can't do it." In the background Seth glowered, recalcitrant. And at his back was the source of the blue glow, an impower, a devourer, crouched and waiting in the space where the dining alcove had once been. "It comes alive during the conjunctions," Garth said in a whisper. "Once the Catalyst goes in, somebody back home throws a switch." The being flickered at first, getting brighter and brighter as Marcus watched. He saw that it could not move of itself, that it was just waiting, and he resolved to do everything in his power to keep Seth from letting the girl to it. Rammy and Togl arrayed themselves on either side of Marcus, reenforcing him. "You can't do it, Seth," they said as one. "You can't do it, Seth," said Garth, in the lead. 'This man from outside, he says you can't do it." "Of course he does!" Seth hissed at him. "He knows we're here on reconnaissance. Do you think he wants us to go home and give our report?"' "I come as a friend," Marcus said a little sententiously. "And as a friend I must beg... Seth snorted unpleasantly. "Friend, hell. Alien. He thinks we're spies." "Never mind what he thinks," Rammy said nervously. "Listen to what he says. "The conjunction is almost over. We have to hurry home!" "What is home, if Mavra dies?" Garth was almost in tears. Rammy said, "Mavra, the beautiful." Togl added, "Mavra, our love." "Love, hell," Seth said. "She knows her job." "Look man," Marcus said, wishing he were a little better at persuasion. "Our decency, our common humanity..." and then he broke off, wailing, "You just can't. I'm in love with her." "You fool!" Seth spat. And then he turned and the others turned with him, to see that Mavra, taking advantage of their confusion, had slipped into the dining alcove, tipping Seth a little wink as she went. Now, with a gallant little wave, she was disappearing into the bowels of the blue glow, the being, the center of the machine. A s she connected there was a flash like a shower of flaming needles. Marcus reeled, without sight, without blood or breath for an excruciating second. When he recovered, gasping, he saw that the others were changing; Garth, Togl and Rammy facing him in a luminly, facing the spot where the being or machine had been, all three already on their way home. Caught in the agony of passage, they incandesced. "We've been had," Garth said mournfully, just as he and the others flickered and went out. And Marcus, in his pajamas, was alone, in the cold and deserted room. by Gordon R. Dickson A complete short novel in the worlds of the Dorsai and the Friendly Soldiers This and many other complete stories IF IF  Short Stor#, Never trust an Alien! When they are most defenseless they're most totally deadlyl T he Alien Alert sounded while Rohan was sitting down with his Uncle Spadler to his first meal of venison. Uncle Spadler had just cut himself a bite-size chunk of rare steak. The fork, with the meat spitted upon it, wavered before the granite chin and the dark red, extremely bushy mustache. Three times the eerie sound tormented the chilly mountain air. Sixty seconds passed -- the silence weighing like heavy heartbeats -- three times again, the wail. All was quiet inside and outside the isolated cabin. Rohan's boyish lips trembled. 'T -- I thought I heard something outside, Uncle." "You what? "I thought I heard a noise outside, Uncle." Uncle Spadler's eyes gleamed. He rose from the table and crossed the cabin to the gun rack. He plucked one of the two sporting rifles from its magnetic holder. He yanked back the rifle bolt, three, four, six times. Expelled deer slugs made clicking sounds as they hit the floor. Uncle Spadler took some high explosive killer shells from a greea box. Snip, snip, snip went the shellf into the rifle's magazine. Rohan gripped the edge of the table hard as he watched his uncle cross the floor with the gun in his hands. His breath sucked in as, gua resting with the stock steady against his hip. Uncle Spadler threw the door open. Wind rushed in, cold and snowfilled. Flakes fell to the floor, melting like human consciences. Uncle Spadler moved through the doorway. His broad back disappeared from view, and for a moment there was an open square of dusk-filled daylight. Then he had backed inside again. "What is it, Uncle?" Rohan gasped, Spadler did not answer. He closed the door silently. Then he whirled, heavy, huge and bear-like. He faced Rohan at close-quarters, and he said, in a voice like thunder, "Tracks outside." "Alien?" "Alien." "Big ones?" "Big ones." R ohan shuddered. He stirred not a leg nor an arm while his uncle moved about the cabin. From behind him he heard. "Hurry up! Get ready now! We've got a job to do." "But I -- " His uncle's face was before him, glowering red with rage. "A job, I say! You too, as well as I." "But -- " "Here!" And Uncle Spadler thrust into his hands a wadded bundle of outdoor clothing. He took the rifle and the extra flashlight his uncle handed him. He moved to the door. He put on the snowshoes.  "The tracks are over there," said Uncle Spadler, pointing through the snowstorm. "Big flat ones, like nothing I ever saw before." Rohan stared. He moved the way his uncle had directed him. The track was shaped roughly like a human's. Twelve feet ahead of the track there was another one, and twelve feet further on, another. Each track was positioned one directly ahead and behind another, in a way that no animal -- human or otherwise -- should normally walk. "There's many different kinds of Aliens." Rohan's voice was hoarse. "Aren't there. Uncle?" "Many, many kinds," said Uncle Spadler. "And you've never seen this kind of track before?" "I told you I hadn't!" "And you never heard of an Alien that makes this kind?" "Never!" "It must want to live very badly to escape prison camp and attempt to cross a hunting area." Rohan raised a hand encased in a shooting glove to his forehead. Through the skin-tight plastic, his fingers could just detect the hairlike line upon his forehead. "So long," he said wonderingly. "So very long! All that dark and the wetness. Half dead, half knowing. Angel voices. The rustle of a nurse's gown. Soft hiss of a nutrient supply tube." "Are you re-living that again?" said his uncle. "Yes," said Rohan. "Stop it!" his uncle said brutally. "But -- " "It's ten years since your broken body was put in the re-growth tank. You've been out of the hospital two years. Long enough. I'd think." "But, Uncle Spadler, when I was little..." "What?" IF "Before all the trouble... "Out with it!" "I -- I thought everyone liked Aliens." Spadler's face moved close to his. Snow flecked the bushy eyebrows. "You stupid, boy?" "N-no, I don't think so." "After those souvenirs from 'friendly' -- " contempt reversed meaning -- "Aliens started explod'tourists' produced weapons and house-pets began blinding and poisoning people... after all that, you still think there's good in Aliens?" "S-some Aliens, perhaps." "Bah!" said Uncle Spadler. Rohan looked down at his right snowshoe, then at the giant track in front of it. He swallowed. He did not contradict his uncle. "You have a rifle there," Uncle Spadler said, "Yes," Rohan said. "That gun will stop any Alien that you have to stop with it." "I'm glad it will," Rohan said. "C'mon, then!" Rohan looked up to see his uncle moving off into the snowstorm. His lips twisted. He drew cold air into his lungs, then expelled a cloud of white vapor. Taking a firm grim on the gun, he followed his uncle. H is legs were a dull ache as morning approached. By then it had long since quit snowing. The stars were beginning to fade, and still they had not seen the Alien. Uncle Spadler pointed at the nearest track with his now turned off flashlight. "See, it stood here for a while. Resting, maybe thinking up some devilment. It knows part of it advantage is gone in the daylight. "The tracks head for the woodsy Uncle," Rohan said. Uncle Spadler moved that way. "Be alert now," he said. "It could be preparing an ambush." "Do they do that ofteil Uncle? "Some do," said Uncle Spadler. Rohan frowned. His eyes watered. His fingernails tried to dig through his gloves and into his rifle stock. At the edge of the forest, Uncle Spadler dropped his flashlight. He did not bother to pick it up. "Uncle?" Spadler pointed. Ahead, one track mark stood out plainly beneath a low-hanging tree limb. "It's a low place for it to have stood, isn't it, Uncle?" "The thing hops," Uncle Spadler said. "Perhaps it's not so big as it looks." "Perhaps not. That doesn't mean it's any less dangerous." Rohan swallowed as he peered into the woods. "So many bushes --  it could hide anywhere, couldn't it?" "It's too rough to wear snowshoes. We'll have to wait until the sun is all the way up before we go in." "And that will give it still more of a chance, won't it. Uncle?" "Shut up!" said Uncle Spadler. A bent branch sprang back and wrapped itself around the calf of Uncle Spadler's right leg. Uncle Spadler screamed. Then he stopped screaming and swore lividly. Hurrying to his uncle's side, Rohan saw a row of needle-like thorns protruding from the top half of his uncle's combat boot. "Didn't penetrate through the boot leather," Uncle Spadler said at last. "You can bet I'd be dead if they had." "Poison?" Uncle Spadler pointed at a yellowish, all but invisible mucus on one of the thorns. He was careful not to touch it. "That's poison of some kind. The Alien we're tracking is probably venomous." "We'd better get those thorns out," Rohan said concernedly. He searched in a pocket and found a pair of pliers. Carefully, so as to avoid touching the mucus, he began pulling the thorns. When he had pulled three thorns, he stopped in astonishment. "Uncle, some of these thorns -- they've got barbs on them!" "Hold one up where I can sec," said Uncle Spadler. Rohan held up the pliers. "Small," said Uncle Spadler. "That means a delicate touch, doesn't it? Probably real small manipulating appendages?" "Hurry up with those thorns." "Uncle, could there be a big Alien carrying a small Alien?" "Hurry up, I said." Rohan pulled the last of the thorns. He straightened up and saw his uncle's eyes were directed at a bush in back of him. "I'm going over there," said his uncle. "You stay here and watch for me." "All right. Uncle." Rohan stood in the snow and watched his uncle advance on the bush. His head swiveled right and left; his eyes tried to see everywhere. Uncle Spadler reached the bushes. He maneuvered around the edges. He waved for Rohan to keep back. Then he disappeared from sight behind some tree trunks. Seconds lengthened into minutes. Minutes dragged interminably. Suddenly Rohan's hands tightened convulsively on his rifle. His eyelids stretched. He opened his mouth wide, but no sound came. From a different direction then the one his uncle had taken, there had come a thing -- a bunny rabbit thing, with fur that was softly glowing. A thing without visible legs, that hopped twelve feet at a time in a staight line toward him. T he rifle flew to Rohan's shoulder, drawn there by hours of drill and practice. "H-halt, Alien!" he said. The Alien halted. It raised babyish pink hands before its wrinkled face. Violet eyes stared liquidly upwards. It spoke: "Oh, Being of Many Thunders," it said in a surprisingly strong, scarcely accented voice. "Oh, Master of Space, Son of Conqueror of Worlds -- " Rohan yelled loudly for his Uncle Spadler. Only the stillness of the forest answered him. IF Times my Superior. Oh, Man, this Worthless Nonentity is Vastly Pleased that you have come for me." "W-what do you mean?" Violet eyes rolled. The creature gave off a scent like springtime flowers. A sound came from its body which was both lulling and stirring at the same time and might well have been the opening chord in some grand Alien symphony. "On Far World of My Origin, I Live, Work, and One Day Honored. Entertainers I, Most Honored of Profession. Conquerors Come, but not you Conquerors. Conquerors want Entertainers. I am Honored." "You mean," Rohan swallowed, "you were a non-combatant? One of a race conquered by other Aliens?" "Non-Combatant I," talked-sang the Alien. "I not Escape From Camp. I ordered From. I told Test Man's Tracking ability. I do... Not Want." "Who ordered you?" "Mans at Camp. Guards say Hop Fast. Say where go. Say Man Rewarded Find me." "Uncle Spadler!" Rohan called. Stillness. "I can't believe what you say! It can't be the way Ihings happen. You tried to kill my uncle." "No, No, Not Do! I try Catch Food. You come. I Fear. Not Want Times my Superior." Suddenly, the music Alien played took on a dirge-like quality. The pinkish face bent over its cupped hands. Tears ran rather than leaked from the violet eyes, falling like tiny beads of amber Inio tlie cup that awaited them. Rohan stared. His face softened. He lowered his rifle. Impulsively he dropped to his knees in front of the Alien. He tossed the gun aside and reached for a handkerchief. The tears were now brimming the hollow formed by the hands. From each pink finger there clicked a long curved claw. The claws pointed upwards, curved back from the fingertips. Rohan found his handkerchief with his right hand. And Alien's claws snapped outwards, and amber droplets filled the air. I nstinctively Rohan's eyes squeezed shut. His left forearm raised, his head dropped. From the bushes, a rifle cracked. A killer shell exploded. Stuff hit Rohan's raised forearm. Rohan was hurled backwards. Rohan's eyes opened. "It tried to get me too," someone said. "It thought it led me into a deadfall, but I avoided it." Rohan turned to see his Uncle Spadler. His mouth worked. "B-but, Uncle, it was so h-helpless," he said. "Take a look at your coat!" Rohan looked at his left coat sleeve. Wisps of smoke were coming from tiny brown holes where the Alien's tears had landed. "Helpless as a spitting cobra." Rohan's two perfectly good eyes widened. In a voice hardly recognizable as his own he added: "And every bit as trustworthy." IF  Serid Conclusion He had five lives In his care -- and he could save them only by giving up everything that mattered in his own!, F or the next many days Hugh was busy redesigning the game of Scrabble to fit Language, translating Hoyle s Complete Book of Games, dictating rules and descriptions (to the best of his memory) of games and recreations not in Hoyle (such as Ping Pong, golf, water skiing). attending conferences with Ponse and Joe, and others with Joe alone -- and playing bridge. The last was by far the best. With Joe's help he taught several of the Chosen the game, but most of the sessions were play, with Joe, Ponse, and always Barbara. Ponse had the enthusiasm of a new convert. When he was in residence he played bridge What Has Gone Before...  family, is caught in the destruction of a sudden and devastating nuclear war. With his wife and children they take refuge in his bomb shelter, bringing with them Farnham finds himself unexpectedly and peremptorily in love. But there is little time for them to dwell on their relationship, for when the bombs stop failing and they leave the shelter they find themselves in a world where no sign of man appears. There is no destruction -- there is no city! They establish a primitive way of life, in which Farnham's chief lieutenant is the other member of their party, houseboy and is now more of a son to him than his own son, Duke. Farnham's daughter, Karen dies in childbirth. As they are recovering from the tragedy they are visited by a fleet of strange ships commanded by oner and brings them to the castle which is his home. He treats them with a sort of disinterested good humor, except for Joseph, who he makes an honored guest. It is Joseph's skin color that has earned him special privilege. They learn that they have fallen through a flaw in time and are in the world of thousands of years from now, where the European and American nations have all but destroyed themselves in nuclear war; now all power belongs to the unharmed Africans who have taken over and rebuilt on the ruins. Except for Joseph, Farnham's family group is taken into the community as domestic slaves. Farnham himself is turned over to huge slave estate. They are separated and put to work. They are well fed and reasonably housed, but they are slaves nonetheless. In captivity, Barbara bears Farnham's twin children -- which he can never see. He determines to escape. But where is there to go? IF every minute that he could spare, and always wanted the same four, the best players available. It seemed to Hugh that Their Charity was fond of Barbara, as fond as he was of the cat he called "Dok'livstnipsoom" -- never "Doc." Ponse extended to cats the courtesy due equals, and Doc, or any of the cats, was free to jump up into his lap even when he was bidding a difficult hand. He extended the same courtesy and affection to Barbara as he knew her better, always called her "Barba," or "Child," and never again referred to her as "it." Barbara called him "Ponse," or "Uncle," and clearly felt unafraid and happy in his company. Sometimes Ponse left Barbara and Hugh alone in his lounging room, once for more than twenty minutes. These were jewels beyond price; they did not risk losing such a privilege by doing more than hold hands. If it was time to nurse the boys, Barbara said so and Ponse always ordered them fetched up. Once he ordered them fetched to his lounge when it wasn't necessary, said that he had not seen them for a week and wanted to see how much they had grown. So the game waited while their' "Uncle" Ponse got down on the rug and made foolish noises at them. Then he had them taken away. Five minutes of babies was enough. But he said to Barbara, "Child, they're growing like sugar cane. I hope I live to see them grow up." "You'll live a long time. Uncle." "Maybe. I've outlived a dozen food tasters, but that salts no fish. Those brats of ours will make magnificent matched footmen. I can see them now, serving in the banquet hall of the Palace -- the Residence, I mean, not this summer cottage. Whose deal is it?" H ugh saw Grace a few times during this period, but never for more than seconds. If he showed up and she was there, she left at once, displeasure large on her face. If Barbara arrived for bridge before Hugh did, Grace was always out of sight. It was clear that she was an habituee of the lord's informal apartments; it was equally clear that she resented Barbara as much as ever, with bile left over for Hugh. But she never said anything and it seemed likely that she had learned not to cross wills with Their Charity. It was now official that Grace was bedwarmer to Their Charity. Hugh learned this from Kitten, who would happily gossip about anything if encouraged. It appeared that the sluts knew when the lord was in residence (Hugh often did not) by whether Grace was downstairs or up. She was assigned no other duties and even the slutmaster did not dare put her to work on her days of idleness. She was immune to all whips, even Memtok's. She was also, the few times Hugh glimpsed her, lavishly dressed and bejeweled. She was also very fat, so fat that Hugh felt relieved that he no longer had even a nominal obligation to share a bed with her. True, all bedwarmers were fat by Hugh's standards. Even kitten was plump enough that had she been a XXth century American girl, she would have been at least pretending to diet, and talking about it. Kitten did talk about it. She fretted that she was unable to put on weight. Kitten was so young that her plumpness was somewhat pleasing, as with a baby. But Hugh found Grace's fatness another matter. Somewhere in that jiggling mass was buried the beautiful girl he had married. He tried not to think about it and could not see why Ponse would like it -- if he did. But in truth, Hugh admitted, he did not know that Grace was anything more than nominally Ponse's bedwarmer, just as Kitten was to him. After all, Ponse was alleged to be more than a century old. Would Ponse have any more use for one than Memtok had? Hugh did not know -- nor really care. Ponse looked to be perhaps sixty-five and still strong and virile. But Hugh held a private opinion that Grace's role was odalisque, not houri. While the question did not really matter to him, it did to Duke. Hugh's first son came storming into Hugh's office one day and demanded a private interview; Hugh led him to his apartment. He had not seen Duke in nearly a month. Satisfactory translations had been coming in from him; there had been no need to see him. H ugh tried to make the meeting pleasant. "Sit down, Duke. May I offer you a drink of Happiness?" "No, thanks! What's this I hear about Mother?" "What do you hear, Duke?" (Oh, Lord! Here we go again.) "You know damned well what I mean!" "I'm afraid I don't." Hugh made him spell it out, offering no help. Duke had his facts correct and, to Hugh's surprise, had learned them just that day. Since every one of more than four hundred servants had known all along that one of the slut savages -- the other one, not the tall skinny one -- lived upstairs with Their Charity more than she lived in the sluts' quarters, it seemed incredible that Duke had taken so long to find out. However, Duke had very little to do with the other servants and was not popular with them -- "a troublemaker," Memtok had called him. Hugh neither confirmed nor denied Duke's story. "Well?" Duke demanded. "What are you going to do about it?" "About what, Duke? Are you suggesting that I put a stop to servants' hall gossip? I doubt if I could. My usual practice is to ignore it." "I don't mean that at all! Are you going to sit there while your wife is being raped?" "Probably. You come in here with some story you've picked up from a second assistant dishwasher, or some equally reliable source, and expect me to do something. Now, I would like to know, first, why do you think this gossip is true? Second, what has what you have told me got to do with rape? Third, if all or any of it were true, what would you expect me to do about it? Fourth, what, if anything, do you IF think I can do about it? Take them in order and please be specific. Then we may talk about what I will do.' "Quit twisting things around." "Tm not twisting anything. You are. Duke, you had an expensive education as a lawyer -- I know, I picked up the tab. You used to lecture me about 'rules of evidence. Now use some of that education. Take those questions in order. Why do you think this gossip is true? "Uh... I heard it and I checked around. Everybody knows it.' "So? Everybody knew the Earth was flat, at one time. They were wrong. But what is the allegation? Be specific." "Why, I told you. Mother is assigned as that bastard's bedwarmer. "Who says so?" "Why, everybody!' "Did you ask the slutmaster?" "Do you think Fm crazy?" "Fll take that as rhetorical. But to shorten this, what 'everybody knows' as you put it, is that Grace is assigned duties of some sort, upstairs. This seems possible and no doubt could be verified, one way or the other. Possibly in attendance on Their Charity, possibly waiting on the ladies of the household, or perhaps other duties. Do you want me to arrange an appointment for you with the slutmaster, so that you can ask him what duties your mother has? I tell you truthfully that I do not know her duties." "Uh, you ask him." "I shan't. I feel sure that, if I did ask, Grace would regard it as snooping on my part. Let's assume for the moment that you have asked him and that he has told you, as you now suspect only from gossip, that her assignment is as bedwarmer. To Their Charity. On this assumption, made for the sake of argument only, since you certainly haven't proved it -- on this assumption, where does rape come in?" D uke looked astonished. "I would not have believed it, even of you. Do you mean to sit there and say baldly ttiat you think Mother would do such a thing voluntarily? "I long ago gave up trying to guess what your mother would or would not do. But  haven't said she is doing anything. You have. I don't know that her assignment is bedwarmer other than through gossip, gossip which you have repeated without proof. If true, I still would not know if she had ever carried out the assignment by actually getting into his bed, voluntarily or otherwise -- I've never seen his bed nor even heard gossip on this point... just your evil thoughts. But if those thoughts are correct, I still would have no opinion as to whether or not anything other than sleep had taken place. I myself, over the course of years, have shared beds with more than one female and did nothing but sleep; I know it can happen. But in any event I doubt very strongly that Their Charity has ever raped any female in all his long life. I doubt it especially now. Never mind. I see only one way to get at the facts, if any, underlying these foul suspicions in your mind. Ask the Lord Protector." "Go nghi ahead! First sensible thing vou've said." "Oh, not me. Duke. You see, I don't even faintly suspect him of rape. But you can ask him. Simply see the Chief Domestic. You don't have to go through me to see Memtok; you know his policy. He'll see any Palace servant who wants to see him. At the servant's risk, of course, but I doubt if he'll tingle anyone in my department without good cause; I do have some fat cat privileges. Tell him you want an audience with the Lord Protector. I think that is all it will take, although you may have to wait a week or two. If Memtok turns you down, tell me. I fancy I can get him to arrange it Then, when you see the Lord Protector, simply ask him, point blank." "And be lied to. If I ever get that close to that black ape. I'm going to kill him!" Mr. Farnham sighed. "Duke, I don't see how can man can be so wrong-headed so many different ways. If you are granted an audience, Memtok will be right at your side. With his whip. The Lord Protector will probably be about fifty feet away. And the whip he carries doesn't just tingle; it's a deadly weapon. Very. The old man has lived a long time, he's not easy to kill." "I can try!" "So you can. If a grasshopper tries to fight a lawnmower, one may admire his courage but not respect his judgment. But you are equally sDly in thinking that Their Charity would lie about it. If he has done what you think he has -- raped your mother, forced her to submit unslightest shame, not in any way reluctant to answer you plainly and honestly. Duke, he would no more bother to lie to you than it would occur to him to step aside if you were in his way. However -- would you believe your mother?" "Of course I would." ('Then tell him also that you A would like to see her. I am almost certain that he would grant the request. For a few minutes and in his presence. The strict harem rules he can break if he chooses. If you have the guts to tell him to his face that you want to hear her confirm whatever he tells you, I think he would be astonished. But I think he would then laugh and grant the petition. If you want to see your mother, assure yourself personally of her welfare and safety, that's all I can suggest. You certainly can't see her otherwise. It's so irregular that your only chance is to spring it on him, face to face." Hugh stood up. "We've wasted enough time in futile talk. Either get back to work, or go see Memtok." "I'm not through." "Oh, yes, you are. That was an order, not a suggestion. Do one or the other, and do it now." "If you think I'm scared of that whip -- " "Oh, heavens, Duke, I wouldn't tingle you myself. You're my son, it might restrain me. If you ever force me to it, I'll ask Memtok to chastise you. He's reputed to be quite exIF pert. Now get out. You've wasted half my morning." Duke left. Hugh stayed a while, trying to compose himself. A row with Duke always left him shaking inside; it had been so when the lad was only twelve. But something else troubled him, too. He had used every sophistry he could think of to divert Duke from a hopeless course. That did not worry him, nor did he share Duke's basic worry. Whatever had happened to Grace, he felt sure that rape was not a factor. But he was sourly aware of something that Duke, in his delusions, apparently did not realize -- the oldest Law of the Conquered, that their ly. Whether his ex-wife had or had not was a matter almost academic. He suspected that she had never been offered the opportunity -- but, either way, she was obviously contented with her lot -- smug about it. That troubled him little; he had tried to do his duty by her, she had long since withdrawn herself from him. But he did not want Barbara ever to feel the deadening load of hopelessness that could -- and had, all through history -- turned chaste Much as he loved her, he had no illusions that Barbara was either angel or saint. The Sabine women had stood no chance and in the long run, neither would she. "Death before dishonor!" was a fine slogan, but it did not wear well. In time, enough time, it changed to happy cooperation. He got out his bottle of Happiness, looked at it... put it back. He would never solve his problems that way. H ugh made no effort to find out whether or not Duke had gone to see Memtok. Hugh got back to work, that day and following days, at his endless task of buttering up Their Charity in every way available to him, whether by good bridge, moneymaking ideas, or simply translating. He no longer had any real hope that the boss would eventually permit him to move Barbara and the twins into his comfortable apartment; old Ponse seemed adamant on that point. But favor at court could be useful, even indispensable, no matter what happened -- and in the meantime it let him see Barbara occasionally. He never gave up his end purpose of escape. As the summer wore on he realized that the chances were very slim indeed of escaping -- all four of them escaping, twins in arms -- that year. Soon the household would move to the city, and so far as he knew the only possible time to escape was when they were near mountains. No matter. A year, two years, even longer, perhaps even wait until the boys could walk. Hard enough even then, but very nearly impossible with babies in arms. He must tell Barbara, with whispered urgency, the very next time they were left alone even for a minute, what he had in mind -- urge her to keep her chin up, and wait. He didn't dare write it in his nightly notes to her. Ponse could get them translated -- other scholars somewhere understood English, even though Joe would never give him away. Would Grace? He hoped not, but couldn't guess. Probably Ponse knew all about these notes, had them translated every day, chuckled over them, and did not care. Perhaps he could work out a code with Barbara -- something as simple as first word, first line, then second word, second line, and so on. Might risk it. He had figured out one thing in their favor, an advantage that might overcome their sad luck of sophistication in this society. It was evident that runaways rarely succeeded because of their appearance. A white skin might be disguised -- but servants average many inches shorter and many pounds lighters than the Chosen. Both Barbara and Hugh were above average height for their own time; they were big enough to pass in that respect for Chosen. Features? The Chosen were not uniform in feature; Hindu influence mixed with Negroid and with other things. His permanent baldness was a problem, he would have to steal a wig. Or make one. But with stolen clothes, squirreled food, weapons of some sort (his two hands!), and makeup -- they might be able to pass for "poor black trash" and safely take to the road. If it wasn't too far. If the hounds did not get them. If they did not make some ridiculous bumble through not knowing the customs. But servants, marked by their complexion, were not allowed to go one step outside the household, farm. ranch, or whatever was their lawful cage -- without a pass from their patron. Perhaps he could learn what a pass looked like, forge one. No, that was useless. Barbara and he could not travel as servants on a forged pass for the very reasons that made it dimly possible for them to disguise as Chosen: Their size was too distinctive, a pickup call for them would be carried out on sight. T he more Hugh thought about it the more it seemed to him that he would have to wait at least until the next summer and then make a quick run for the mountains. If they were among the servants picked for the Summer Palace next year -- if they both were -- if all four were -- He had not thought of that angle. Christ! Their little family might never be all under this one roof again. Perhaps they would have to run for it, right here, right now, in the short time left before the move -- run and take a chance on hounds, on bears, on those nasty little leopards... with two nursing babies to protect. God! Was ever a man faced with poorer chances for saving his family? Yes. He himself had been -- when he built that shelter. Prepare every way he could... and pray for a miracle. He started saving food from meals served in his rooms, such sorts as would keep a while. He kept his eyes open to steal a knife -- or anything that could be made into a knife. He carefully kept what he was doing from Kitten's eyes. IF Not once did he consider starting out some night alone. Much sooner than he had hoped he got a chance to acquire makeup. A feast day always meant an orgy of Happiness in servants' hall; one came along that featured amateur theatricals. Hugh was urged to clown the part of Lord Protector in a comic skit. He did not hesitate to do so. Memtok himself had pointed out that his size made him perfect for the part. Hugh roared through it, brandishing a quirt three times as big as Their Charity ever carried. He was a dramatic success. He saw Ponse watching the fun from the balcony from which Hugh had first seen Happiness issued, watching and laughing."So Hugh ad-libbed, calling out, "Hey, less noise up theiol Memtok! Tingle that critter!" Their Charity laughed harder than ever, the servants were almost hysterical and, at bridge the following day, Ponse patted him and told him that he was the best Lord of Nonsense that the pageant had ever had. Result: one stolen package of pigment which needed only to be mixed with the plentiful deodorant cream to be makeup as good as Max Factor ever sold to make him the exact shade of the Lord Protector; one wig which covered his baldness with black wavy hair. It was not the wig he had worn in the skit; he had turned that one back to the chief housekeeper, picking a time under Memtok's eyes and urging Memtok to try it on to see how it would look. No, it was a wig he had tried on out of several saved from year to year -- and which had fitted him just as well. He tried it on, dropped it, kicked it into a corner, recovered it in private -- and kept it hidden under his robe for several days until it seemed certain that it hadn't been missed. Then it wound up under a heavy file case in his outer office one night when he chose to work later than his clerks. He was still looking for something he could grind into a knife. H e did not see Duke during the three weeks following their row. Sometimes Duke's translations came in, sometimes he skipped a day or two; Hugh let him get away with it. But when Hugh could not recall having seen any scrolls come through of the sort Duke was concerned with for a full week, Hugh decided that he ought to check up. Eventually Ponse might notice; Duke might get into trouble. Or get Hugh into trouble. Hugh walked around to the combined study and bedroom that was Duke's privilege for being a "researcher in history." He scratched on the door -- no answer. He scratched again, decided that Duke was sleeping, or not in; he slid the door up and looked in. Duke was not asleep but he was out of this world. He was sprawled naked on his bunk in the most allout Happiness jag Hugh had ever seen. Duke looked up when the door opened, giggled foolishly, made a wide gesture, and said, "Hiyah, y'ole bas'ard! How's tricks?" Hugh stepped closer for a better look at what he thought he saw and felt sick at his stomach. "Son, son!" "Still crepe-hanging, Hughie? Old hooey Hugh!" Gulping, Hugh started to back out, and backed almost into the Chief Veterinarian. The surgeon smiled and said, "Visiting my patient? He hardly needs it." He moved past Hugh with a muttered apology, leaned over Duke, peeled an eyelid back, examined him in other ways, said to him jovially, "You're doing fine, cousin. Let's give you another treatment, then I'll send you in another big meal. How does that sound?" "Jus' fine. Doc. Jus' dandy! You're my frien'. Best frien' never had!" The vet set a dial on a little instrument, pressed it against Duke's thigh, waited a moment, and came out. He smiled at Hugh. "Practically recovered. He'll dream a few hours now, wake up very hungry, and not know any time has passed. Then we'll feed him and give him another dose. A fine patient, he's rallied beautifully. Doesn't know what's happened. And by the time we're ready to taper him off, he won't be interested." 'Who ordered this? The surgeon looked surprised. "The Chief Domestic, of course. Why?" "Why wasn't I told?" "I really don't know, better ask him. I got it as a routine order, we carried it out in the routine fashion. Sleeping powder in his evening meal, I mean, then surgery that night. Followed by post-surgical care and the usual massive dosage to keep him IF tranquil. It tends to make some of them a little nervous at first, we vary it to suitthe patient. But, as you can see, this patient has taken it as easily as pulling a tooth. By the way, that bridge I installed in your mouth. Satisfactory?" "What? Yes. Never mind that! I want to know -- " "May it please you, the Chief Domestic is the one to see. Now, if this one may be excused, Fm overdue to hold sick call. I merely stopped by to make sure my patient was happy." Hugh let him go, then went to his apartment and threw up. Then he went looking for Memtok. M emtok seemed pleased to see him, received him into his office at once, invited him to sit down. Hugh had begun to value the Chief Domestic as a friend, or as the nearest thing he had to a friend below stairs. Memtok had formed a habit of dropping in on Hugh in the evenings occasionally and, despite the boss servant's vinegary approach to life and the vast difference in their backgrounds and values, Hugh found him shrewd and always stimulating and extremely well informed within his limits. Besides Memtok seemed to have the loneliness that a ship's captain must endure; he seemed pleased to relax and enjoy friendship. Since the other upper servants were correctly polite with the Chief Researcher rather than warm, Hugh, lonesome himself, had enjoyed Memtok's unbending and had thought of him as his friend. Until this -- Hugh told Memtok bluntly, without protocol, what was on his mind. "Why did you do this?" Memtok looked surprised. "Such a question! Such a very improper question, in fact. Because the Lord Protector ordered it." "He did? "My dear cousin! Tempering is always by the lord's order. Oh, I recommend, to be sure; that's routine. But orders for alterations must come from above. However, if it is any business of yours, in this case I made no recommendation. I was simply given the order, I had it carried out. All." "Certainly it was my business! He works for me." "Oh! But he had already been transferred before this was done. Else I would have made a point of telling you, believe me. Propriety, cousin, propriety in all things. I hold subordinates strictly accountable, as you know. So I never undercut them. Can't run a taut household if one does. Fair is fair." " wasn't told he was transferred. Don't you count that as undercutting?" "Oh, but you were." The Chief Domestic glanced at the enormous rack of pigeon holes backing his desk, searched briefly, pulled out a slip. "There it is." Hugh looked at it. "Duty Assignment. Change In. One servant, male (savage, rescued  adopted), known as Duke, description -- " Hugh skipped on down. " -- relieved of all duties in the Department of Ancient History and assigned to the personal service of Their Charity, effective immediately. Billeting  Messing assignments: Unchanged until further -- " "I never saw this!" "No, it's my file copy. You got the original." Memtok pointed at the lower left corner. "Your deputy clerk's sign. It always pleases me when my executive can read and write, it makes things so much more orderly. With an ignoramus like the Chief Groundskeeper, one can tell him until one's throat is raw and later the stupid lout will claim that wasn't the way he heard it -- yet a good tingling improves his memory only for that one day. Disheartening. One can't be forever tingling an upper servant, it simply doesn't work." Memtok sighed. "I'd recommend a change, if his assistant wasn't even stupider." "Memtok, I still never saw this." "As may be. It was delivered, your deputy receipted for it. Look around your office. One bullock gets you three you'll find it. Perhaps you'd like me to tingle your deputy? Glad to." #tXTo, no." Memtok was almostL  certainly right, the order was probably on his own desk, unread. Hugh's department had grown to two or three dozen people, he did not .know how many; there seemed to be more every day. Most of them seemed to be button sorters or some such, all of them wanted to take up his time. Hugh had long since told the earnest, fairly literate clerk who was his deputy that he was not to be bothered with anything short of an emergency. Otherwise Hugh would have accomplished no translating after the first week; Parkinson's Law had taken over. The clerk had obeyed, after some reprimands, and routine matters stacked up. Every week or so Hugh would go through the stack rapidly, shove it all back at his deputy for file or burning or whatever it was they did with useless papers. Probably the order transferring Duke was in the current accumulation. If he had seen it in time -- Too late, too late! He put his elbows on his knees and covered his face. Too late! Oh, my son! Memtok touched his shoulder almost gently. "Cousin, take hold of yourself. Your prerogatives were not abridged. You see that, do you not?" "Yes. Yes, I see it," Hugh mumbled through his hands. "Then why are you so overwrought?" "He was -- He is -- my son." "He is? Then why are you behaving as if he were your nephew?" Memtok used the specific form, meaning "your eldest sister's oldest son" and he was honestly puzzled by the savage's odd reaction. He could understand a mother being interested in her son -- or her oldest son, at least. But a father? Uncle! Memtok had sons, he was statistically certain, throughout the household -- "One-Shot Memtok" the former slutmaster used to call him. But he didn't know who they were and could not imagine wanting to know. Or caring. "Because -- " Hugh started. "Oh, forget it, forget it. You did your duty. Conceded." IF "Well -- You still seem upset. I'll send out for a bottle of Hapiness. ril join you, this once." "No. No, thank you." "Oh, come, come! You need it. A tonic is excellent, it is excess that one must avoid." "Thanks, Memtok, but I really don't want it. Right now I must be sharp, especially so. I want to see Their Charity. Right away if possible. Will you arrange it for me?" "I can't do that." "Damn it, I know that you can. And I know he will see me if you ask him." "Cousin, I didn't say that I would not; I said T cant. Their Charity is not in residence." "Oh." Then he asked to have word sent to Joe -- Joe would surely know what had happened, and why. But the Chief Domestic told him that the young Chosen had left with the Lord Protector. He promised to let Hugh know when either or both of them returned -- yes, at once, cousin. H ugh skipped dinner, went to his rooms and brooded. He could not avoid tormenting himself with the thought that it was, in part at least, his own fault -- no, no, not for failing to read every useless paper that came into his office the instant it arrived; no, that was sheer bad luck. Even if he checked his "junk mail" each morning, it probably would have been too late. The two orders had probably gone out at the same time. What did anguish his soul was fear that he had pushed the first domino, in that quarrel with Duke the last time he had seen him. He could have lied to the boy, told him flatly that his mother was, to Hugh's certain knowledge, a maid-in-waiting or some such, to the Lord Protector's sister, safe inside the royal harem and never seen by a man. Pampered, living the life of Riley, and happy in it -- and that other tale was just the gossip servants talk to fill their idle minds. Duke would have believed it because Duke would have wanted to believe it, and would have had no way to disprove it. As it was -- Perhaps Duke had gone to see Their Charity. Perhaps Memtok had arranged it, or perhaps Duke had simply tried to hull his way in and the row had reached Ponse's ears. In any case it was more than possible, he saw now, that his advice to Duke to see the head man might well have resulted in a scene that would have caused Potise to order the tempering as casually as he would order his air coach. All too likely -- He tried to tell himself that no one is ever responsible for another person's actions. He believed it, he tried to live by it. But he found that cold intellectual wisdom no comfort. At last he quit brooding, got writing materials, and got to work on a letter to Barbara. He had had not even a moment's chance to tell her his plans for them to escape, no chance to work up a code. But from here on she must be ready at no notice. He must tell her immediately, somehow. Barbara knew German, he himself had a smattering left over from one high school year of it. He could not speak, read, nor understand it --  but he recalled some words. He knew enough Russian to stumble through a simple conversation. Barbara had picked up a few words from him during their time in the wilderness -- a game that they could share without giving Grace cause for jealousy -- they often annoyed Grace unintentionally. H e wrote a draft of what he wanted to say, then painfully translated the letter into a mishmash of German, Russian, colloquial English, beatnik jive, literary allusions pig Latin, and special idioms. In the end he had a message that he was sure Barbara could puzzle out, but he was certain that no students of ancient languages could translate it into Language even in the unlikely event that the scholar knew English, German, and Russian. He was not afraid that it might be translated by anyone else. If Grace saw it, she pronounce it gibberish; she knew no Russian, no German. Duke was off in a drugridden dreamworld. Joe might guess at the meaning -- Joe was sharp -- but he trusted Joe not to give him away. Nevertheless he tried to conceal the meaning even from Joe, intentionally hashing the syntax and using deliberate and obvious misspellings. The draft read: My darling, I have been planning our escape for tome time. I do not know how I will manage it but I want you to be ready, day or night, to grab the twins and simply follow me. Steal food if you can, steal some stout shoes, steal a knife. We'll head for the mountains. I had intended to wait until next summer, let the boys grow some first. But something has happened to change my mind: Duke has been tempered. I don't know why and Tm too heartbroken to talk about it. But it could happen to me next. Worse than that. You remember Ponse's saying that he wanted to seo our twins as matched footmen? Darling, studs do not serve in the Banquet Hall. Nor is there any other fate in store for them; they are both going to be tall. It must not happen! And we can't wait. The caital city of the Protectorate is somewhere near where St. Louis used to be. We can't run all the way to the Rocky Mountains carrying our two boys -- and we have no way of knowing (and no reason to expect) that all four of us will be sent here to the Summer Palace next year. Be brave. Don't touch any Happiness drug in any form from here on; our chance is likely to be a split-second one, with no warning. I love you, Hugh Kitten came in; he told her to watch the show, not bother him. Tho child obeyed. The final draft read: Luba, Ya bin smoking komplott seit Hector was weaned. The Count of Monte Cristo bit, dig? Kinder too klein machs nix -- ya hawchool Goldilocks' troubles machs nix -- as the fellow said, it's the only game in town. Good Girl Scouts always follow the Boy Scout motto. Speise, schuhen, messer -- what Fagin taught Oliver, nicht? Dal Schnell is die her von duh aparat; Berlin is too far from the Big Rock Candy and Eliza would never make the final curtain. Ein ander jahr, nyet. It takes twa to tango and four to play bridge, all in ein kammer, or the trek is dreck. A house divided is for the voqelen, like doom. Mehr, ya haben schrecken. Mein Kronprinz now rules only the Duchy of Abelard. Page Christine Jorgenson, he answers -- I kid you not Spilt milk but ters no parsnips after the barn is burned so weep no more, my lady -- but falsetto is not the pitch for detski whose horoscope reads Gemini. Borjemoi! Old King Coal is a Merry Old Soul thee. Better a bonny bairn beards baren Karen -- is ratification unanimous? Igday eemay? Verb. Sap: I don't drink, smoke, nor chew, nor run around with twists who do. Cloud nine is endsville for this bit. Write soon, even if it's only five dollars utbay swing the jive; the dump is bugged and the Gay Pay Oo is eager. Forever -- H. Kitten was long asleep before Hugh finished composing this jargon. He then tore the draft into bits and dropped it down the whirlpool toilet, went to bed. After a long time haunted by Duke's giggling, foolish, happy, drug-blurred face he got up and broke his own injunction to Barbara, dosed his sorrows and his fears with bottled "Happiness." Barbara's answer came the next day. It read: Darling, When you bid three no-trump, my answer is seven no-trump, without hesitation. Then it's a grand slam -- or we go sot and don't cry. Any time you can get four together we'll be ready to play. Love alwaysB. Nothing else happened that day. Nor the next -- or the next. Hugh doggedly dictated translations, his mind not on his work. He was very careful what he ate or drank, since he now knew the surgeon's humane way of sneaking up on a victim; he ate only from dishes Memtok had eaten from, tried to be crafty by never accepting a fruit or a roll that was closest to him when a servant offered him such, avoided drinking anything at the table -- he drank only water which he himself had taken from the tap. He continued to have breakfast in his room, but he started passing up many foods that he liked in favor of unpeeled fruits and boiled eggs in the shell. He knew these precautions were futile. No determined Borgia would have found them difficult to outwit, and in any case, if orders came to temper him, they need only grab him after subduing him with a whip if it proved difficult to drug him. But at least he might have time to protest, to demand that he be taken before the Lord Protector. As for whips -- He resumed his karate practice, alone in his rooms. A karate blow delivered fast enough would cause even a whip wi elder to lose interest. There was no real hope behind any of it. He simply intended not to go peacefully. Duke had been right; it would have been better to have fought and died at once. He made no attempt to see Duke. He continued to hide food from his breakfast tray, sugar mostly, salt, and some hard bread. He assumed diat such food must be undrugged even though he ate none of it at the time, because it did not affect Kitten. He had been going barefoot most of the time but wearing felt slippers for his daily exercise walks in the servants' garden. Now he complained to Memtok that the gravel hurt his feet through these silly slippers -- didn't the household afford anything better? He was given heavy leather sandals, wore them thereafter in the garden. He cultivated the household's chief engineer, telling him that, in his youth, he had been in charge of construction for his former lord. The engineer was flattered, being not only one of the junior executive servants but also in the habit of hearing mostly complaints rather than friendly interest. Hugh sat with him after dinner and managed to appear knowledgeable largely by listening. Hugh was invited to look around the plant, and spent a tiring morning the next day crawling over pipes and looking at plans -- the engineer could not write but could read a little and understood drawings. It would have been an interesting day in itself if Hugh had been free from worries; Hugh's background made construction and engineering interesting to him. But he concentrated on trying to memorize every drawing he saw, match it in his mind with the passageways and rooms he was taken through. He had a deadly serious purpose; Despite having lived most of a summer in this big IF building, he knew only small pieces of it inside and only a walled garden outside. He needed to know every possible exit from servants' quarters, what lay behind the guarded door to sluts' quarters, it layout, and most particularly, where in that area Barbara and the twins lived. H e got as far as the meander door that led into the distaff side. The engineer hesitated when the guard suddenly became alert. He said, "Cousin Hugh, I'm sure it's all right for you to go in here, with me -- but maybe we had better go up to the Chief Domestic's office and have him write you out a pass." "Whatever you say, cousin." "Well, there really isn't anything of interest in here. Just the usual appointments of a barracks -- water, lights, air service, plumbing, baths, such things. All the interesting stuff, power plant, incinerator, air control, and so forth, is elsewhere. And you know how the boss is -- likely to fret over any variation from routine. If it's all the same to you. I'll make my morning inspection in there this afternoon." "However you want to arrange things," Hugh answered with a suggestion of affronted dignity. "Well... everybody knows you're not one of those disgusting young studs." The engineer looked embarrassed. "Tell you what. You just tell me flatly that you want to see everytbing... in my department that is... and I'll trot up to Memtok and tell him you said so. He knows -- Uncle! We all know -- that you enjoy the favor of Their Charity. You understand me? I don't mean to presume. Memtok will write out a pass right quick and I'll be in the clear and so will the guard and the head guard. You wait here and be comfortable. I'll hurry." "Don't bother. There's nothing, in there I want to see," Hugh lied. "You've seen one bath, you've seen 'em all, I always say." The engineer smiled in relief. "That's a good one, I'll remember that. 'You've seen one bath, you've seen 'em all!' Ha ha! Well, we've stiU got the carpentry shop and the metal shop." Hugh went on with him, arm in arm and jovial, while fuming inside. So close! Yet letting Memtok suspect that he had any special interest in sluts' quarters was the last thing he wanted. But the morning was well spent. Not only did Hugh acquire a burglar's insight as to strong and weak points of the building (that delivery door to the unloading dock; if it was merely locked at night, it should be possible to break out. "Gve me a lever long enough and a fulcrum to rest it on -- ") but also he picked up two prizes. The first was a broken piece of spring steel, about eight inches long. Hugh palmed it from some scrap in the metal shop; it wound up taped to his arm, after an unneeded plumbing call, for he had gone prepared to steal. The second was even more of a prize: a printed drawing of the lowest level, with engineering installatipns shown boldly -- but with every door and passage marked -- including sluts' quarters. Hugh had admired it. "Uncle, but that's a beautiful drawing! Your own work?" The engineer shyly admitted that it was. Based on architect's plans, you understand -- but changes keep having to be added. "Beautiful!" Hugh repeated. "It's a shame there's only one copy." "Oh, plenty of copies, they wear out. Would you like one?" "I would treasure it. Especially if the artist would inscribe it to me." When the man hesitated, Hugh moved in fast and said, "May I suggest a wording? Here, I'll write it out and you copy it." Hugh walked away with the print, inscribed: "To my dear cousin Hugh, a fellow craftsman who appreciates beautiful work." T hat night he showed it to Kitten. The child was awestruck. She had no concept of maps and was fascinated bv the idea that it was possible to put down, just on a piece of paper, the long passages and twisty turns of her world. Hugh showed her how one went from his quarters to the ramp leading up to the executive servants' dining room, where the servants' main dining hall was, how the passage outside led, by two turns, to the garden. She confirmed the routes slowlv, frowning in unaccustomed mental effort. "You must live somewhere over here. Kitten. This area is sluts' quarters." "It is?" she asked, incredulous. "Yes. See if you can find where you live. I won't show you, you know how now. I'll just sit back." "Oh. Uncle help me! Let me see. First, I have to come down this ramp -- " She paused to think while Hugh kept his face impassive. She had just confirmed what he had almost stopped suspecting; the child was a planted spy. " -- then... this is the door?" "That's right." "Then I walk straight ahead past the slutmaster's office, clear to the end. and I turn, and... I must live right therer She clapped her hands and giggled. "Your billet is across from your mess hall?" "Yes." "Then you got it right, first time! That's wonderful! Now let's see what else you can figure out." For the next quarter hour she took him on a tour of sluts' quarters -- junior and senior common rooms, messes, virgins' dormitory, bed warmers' sleep room, nursery, lying-in, children's hall, service stalls, baths, playground door, garden door, offices, senior matron's apartment, everything -- and Hugh learned that Barbara was no longer billeted in lying-in. He didn't ask. Kitten volunteered it. "Barbara -- you know, the savage slut you write to -- she used to be there at first, and now she's right there. "How can you tell? Those rooms all look alike." " can tell. It's the second one of IF the four-molher rooms on this side, when you walk away from the baths." Hugh noted with deep interest that a maintenance tunnel ran under the baths, with an access manhole in the very passage Barbara's room was on -- and with even deeper interest that this seemed to connect with another one that ran clear across the building. Could it be that here was a wide-open unguarded route between all three main areas of servants' land? Surely not, as the lines seemed to show that any stud with initiative need only crawl a hundred yards in the dark to let himself into sluts' quarters. Yet it might be true -- for how would any stud know where those tunnels led? And why would a stud risk it if he guessed? With the ratio of intact males to breeding sluts about that of bulls to cows on a cattle ranch. And could thumbless hands handle the fastenings? For that matter, could those trap doors be opened from below? It might very well be impossible, probably was. "You're a fast learner. Kitten. Now try a prt you don't know as well. Figure out, on the drawing, how to get from our rooms here to my offices. And if you solve that one, here's a harder one. What turns you would take and what ramp you would use if I told you to take a message to the Chief Domestic?" She solved the first one after puzzling, the second she traced without hesitation. A t lunch next day, with Memtok at his elbow, Hugh called down the table to the engineer. "Pipes old cousin! That beautiful drawing you gave me yesterday -- do you suppose one of your woodworkers could frame it for me? I'd like to hang it over my desk where people can. admire it." The engineer flushed and grinned widely. "Certainly, Cousin Hugh! How about a nice, clear-grained piece of mahogany?" "Perfect." Hugh turned to his left. "Cousin Memtok, our cousin is wasted on pipes and plumbing. He's an artist. As soon as I have it hung, you must stop by and see what I mean." "Glad to. Cousin. When I find time. If I find time." More than a week passed with no word about Their Charity, nor about Joe -- a week of no bridge, and no Barbara. At last, one day at lunch, Memtok said, "By the way, I had been meaning to tell you, the young Chosen Joseph has returned. Do you still want to see him?" "Certainly. Is Their Charity also in residence?" "No. Their Gracious sister believes that he may not return until after we go home. Ah, you must see that. Cousin! Not a cottage like this. Great doings night and day -- and this humble servant will be lucky to get three meals in peace all winter. Run, run, run, worry, worry, worry, problems popping right and left," he said with unctuous satisfaction. "Be glad you're a scholar." Word came a couple of hours later that Joe expected Hugh. Ho knew his way, having been to Joe's guestrooms to help teach bridge to Chosen, so he went up alone, passed the check points and was escorted from the last one to Joe's door. Joe greeted him enthusiastically. "Come in, Hugh! Find a seat. No protocol, nobody here but us chickens. Wait till you hear all I've accomplished. Boy, have I been busy! One shop all ready to go as a pilot plant before Their Charity finished wangling the protection, all on the Q.T. But so organized that we were in production the same day protection was granted. Not bad terms, either. Their Mercy takes half. Their Charity hangs onto half and floats the financing, and out of Their Charity's half I'm cut in for ten per cent and manage the company. Of course as we branch out and into other lines -- the whole thing is called 'Inspired Games' and the charter is written to cover almost any fun you can have outside of bed -- as we branch out. I'll need help in management. And that's a sticky problem; I'm scared silly that old Ponse is going to want me to put some of his dull-witted relatives in. Hope not, there's no place for nepotism when you're trying to hold coats and turn an honest bullock. Probably best to train servants for it -- cheaper in the long run, with the right sort. How about you, Hugh? Do you think you could swing the management of a factory? It's a big job. I've got a hundred and seven people working there already." #j don't see why not. I've bossed #three times that many risking my own money, and never missed a payroll -- and I once bossed over two thousand skilled trades of all sorts when I was in the Seabees. But, Joe, I came up here with something on my mind." "Uh, all right, all right, spill it. Then I want to show you the layout. And the plans." "Joe, you know about Duke?" "What about Duke?" "Tempered. Didn't you know?" "Oh. Yes, I knew. That happened just about as I left. He's not hurt, is he? Complications?" " 'Hurt?' Joe, he was tempered. You act as if he had merely had a tooth pulled. You knew? Didn't you try to stop it?" "No." "In the name of God, why not?' "Let me finish, can't you? I don't recall that you tried to stop it, either." "I never had the chance. I never knew." "Neither did I. That's what I've been trying to tell you, but you keep jumping down my throat. I learned about it the morning after it happened." "Oh. Sorry. I thought you meant you just stood by and let it happen." "Well, I didn't. Don't know what I could have done if I had known. Maybe asked Ponse to call you in and tell you, first, I suppose. Wouldn't have done any good, so I guess we were both better off not having to fret about it. Maybe all for the best. Now about our plans. If IF you have a look at this schematic layout, you'll see -- " "Joe!" "Huh?" "Can't you see I'm in no shape to talk about playing-card factories?" Joe folded up his plans. "I'm sorry, Hugh. Let's sit down together and you talk, if it will make you feel better. I guess I'm pretty preoccupied with this venture. It's exciting. But get it off your chest. I suppose you do feel bad about it. Looking at it from one angle." Joe listened, Hugh talked. Presently Joe shook his head. "Hugh, I can set your mind at rest on one point. Duke never did see the Lord Protector. Never asked to, so far as I know. So your advice to Duke -- good enough advice, I think -- could not have had anything to do with his being tempered." "I hope you're right. I'd feel like cutting my throat if I knew it was my fault." "It's not, so quit fretting about it." "I'll try. Joe, whatever possessed Ponse to do it. He knew how we felt about it, from that time it almost happened through a misunderstanding. So why would he? I thought he was my friend." Joe looked embarrassed. "You really want to know?" "I've got to know." "Well... you're bound to find out. Grace did it." That? Joe. you must be mis  taken. Sure, sure, Grace has her faults. But she wouldn't have that done to her own son." "Well, no, not exactly. I doubt if she knew what it was until after it was done. But, just the same, she' set it off. She's been wheedling Ponse and whining at him almost from the day we got here that she wanted her Dukie with her. She was lonesome. Tonsie, I'm lonesome. Ponsie, you're being mean to Gracie. Ponsie, I'm going to tickle you until you say Yes. Ponsie, why won't you?' -- all in that baby whine she uses sometimes. Always uses now, I should say. Hugh, I guess you didn't see much of it." "None of it." "I would have wrung her neck. But Ponse just ignored her, except when she tickled him. Then he would laugh and they would roll on the floor and he would tell her to shut up, and make her sit quiet for a while. Treated her just like one of the cats. Honest, I don't think he ever -- I mean, it doesn't seem likely, from what I saw that he was interested in her as a -- " "And I'm not interested. Didn't anybody tell Grace what it would entail, for her to have her son with her?" "Hugh. I don't think so. It would never occur to Ponse that any explanation was required... and certainly I never discussed it with her. Not that she ever talked to me much. She doesn't like me any more, I take up too much of her Ponsie's time." Joe wrinkled his nose. "I doubt if she knew. Of course she should have figured it out on her own. Anybody else would have. But, excuse me, since she's your wife. but I'm not sure she's bright enough." "And hopped up on Happiness, too -- every time I caught sight of her. No, she's not bright. But she's not my wife, either. Barbara is my wife." "Well... legally speaking, a servant can't have a wife." "I wasn't speaking legally, I was speaking the truth. But even though Grace is no longer my wife, I'm somewhat comforted to know that she probably didn't push it knowing what it would cost Duke." Joe looked thoughful. "Hugh, I don't think she did... but I don't think she really cares, either... and I'm not sure that you can properly say that it cost Duke anything." "You might explain those statements. Perhaps I'm dense." "Well, if Grace minds that Duke has been tempered, she certainly doesn't show it. She's pleased as punch. And he doesn't seem to mind." "You've seen them? Since?" "Oh, yes. I had breakfast with Their Charity yesterday morning. They were both there." "I thought Ponse was still away?" iCT Te was back and now he's A I gone out to the west coast. Business. We're really tearing into it. He was only here a couple of days. But he had this birthday present for Grace. Duke, I mean. Yes, I know it wasn't her birthday, hers k in December, as I recall, and anyhow birthdays aren't anything nowadays; it's namedays that counts. But she told Ponse she was about to have a birthday and kept wheedling him -- and you know Ponse, indulgent with animals and kids. And with Grace. So he set it up as a surprise for her. The minute he was back, he made a present of Duke to her. Shucks, they've even got a room somewhere off Ponse's private quarters. Neither one of them has to sleep below stairs any longer, they live up here. In the private-private quarters I mean. Where you've been, where we play bridge." "Okay, I don't care where they sleep. You were telling me how Grace felt about it. And Duke." "Oh, yes. Can't say just when she found out what had been done to Duke to make it possible for him to be with her, all I can say is that she is so happy about it that she was even cordial with me -- telling me what a dear Ponsie was to arrange it and doesn't Dukie look just grand? In his new clothes? Stuff like that. She's got him dressed in the fancy livery the servants wear up here, not a robe like that you're wearing. She's even put jewelry on him. Ponse doesn't mind. He's an outright gift, a servant's servant, Grace's. Actually I don't think he does a lick of work, he's just her pet. And she loves it that way." "But how about Duke?" Hugh persisted. "That's what I've been telling you, Hugh. Duke hasn't lost by it. He's snug as a bug in a rug and he knows it. He was almost patronizing to me. You might have thought I IF was the one wearing livery instead of the other way around. With Grace in solid with the big boss and with her wound around his little finger, Duke thinks he's got it made. Well, he has, Hugh. And I didn't mind his manner; I could see he was hopped on this tranquilizer you servants use." "You call it 'got it made' when a man is grabbed and drugged and tempered and then kept drugged so that he doesn't care what happens to him? Joe, I'm surprised. I'm shocked." "Certainly I call it that. Hugh, put your prejudices aside and look at it rationally. Duke is happy. If you don't believe it, let me take you in there and you talk to him. Talk to both of them. I'm free to go in there even when Their Charity is not in residence and I'll take the liberty of taking you with me, though I shouldn't. See for yourself." "No, I'll take your word for it, I don't think I could stomach it. I'll concede that Duke is happy. I'm well aware that, if you feed a man enough of that 'Happiness' drug, he'll be happy as a lark even if you cut off his arms and legs and then start on his head. But you can be that sort of 'happy' on morphine. Or heroin. Or opium. That doesn't make it a good thing. It's a tragedy." "Oh, don't be melodramatic, Hugh. These things are all relative. Consider it in its frame. Duke was certain to be tempered eventually. It's not lawful for a servant as big as he is to be kept for stud. I'm sure you know that. So what difference does it make whether it's done last week, or next year, or when Ponse dies. The only difference is that he is happy in a life of luxury, instead of hard manual labor in a mine, or a rice swamp, or such. He doesn't know anything useful, he could never hope to rise very high. High for a servant, I mean." "Joe, do you know .what you sound like? Like some white-supremacy apologist telling how well off the darkies used to be, a-sittin' outside their cabins, a-strummin' their banjoes, and singin' spirituals." Joe blinked. "I could resent that." H ugh Farnham was angry and feeling reckless. "Go ahead and resent it! I can't stop you. You're a Chosen, I'm a servant. Can I fetch your white sheet for you, Massah? What time does the Klan meet?" "Shut up!" Hugh Farnham shut up. Joe went on quietly, "I won't bandy words with you. I suppose it does look that way, to you. If so, do you expect me to weep? The shoe is on the other foot, that's all -- and high time. I used to be a servant. Now I'm a respected businessman -- with a good chance of becoming a nephew by marriage of some noble family. Do you think I would swap back, even if I could? For Duke? Not for anybody, I'm no hypocrite. I was a servant, now you are one. What are you beefing about?" "Joe, you were a decently treated employee. You were not a slave." The younger man's eyes suddenly became opaque and his features took on an ebony hardness Hugh had never seen in him before. "Hugh," he said softly, "have you ever made a bus trip through Alabama? As a 'nigger'?" "No." "Then shut up. You don't know what you are talking about." He went on, "The subject is closed and now we'll talk business. I do want you to see what I've done and am planning to do. This games notion is the best idea I ever had." Hugh did not argue whose idea it had been; he listened while the young man went on with eager enthusiasm. At last Joe put down his pen and sat back. "What do you think of it? Any suggestions? You made some useful suggestions when I proposed it to Ponse -- keep on being useful and there will be a good place in it for you." H ugh hesitated. It seemed to him that Joe's plans were too ambitious in the early stages in view of the fact that the market was only a potential and a demand had yet to be created. He did not say so. All he said was, "It might be worth while to package with each deck, no extra charge, a rule book." "Oh, no, we'll sell those separately. Make money on them. " "I didn't mean a complete Hoyle. Just a pamphlet with some of the simpler games. Cribbage. A couple of solitaire games. One or two others. Do that and the customers start enjoying them at once. It should lead to more sales." "Hmm. Pll think about it." Joe folded up his papers, set them aside. "Hugh, you got so shirty a while ago that I didn't tell you one thing I have in mind." "Yes?" "Ponse is a grand old man, but he isn't going to live forever. I plan to have my own affairs separate from his by then so that I'll be financially independent. Trade around interests somehow, untangle it. I guess I don't need to tell you that I'm not anxious to have Mrika as my boss -- and I didn't tell you, so don't repeat it. But I'll manage it. I'm looking out for number one." He grinned. "And when Mrika is Lord Protector I won't be living here. I'll have a household of my own, a modest one -- and I'll need servants. Guess whom I plan to adopt when I staff it." "I couldn't." "Not you -- although you may very well be a business servant to me, if it turns out you really can manage a job. No, I had in mind adopting Grace and Duke." "Huh?" "Surprised? Mrika won't want them, that's certain. He despises Grace because of her influence over his uncle, and it's a sure thing he's not going to like Duke any better. Neither of them is trained and it shouldn't be expensive to adopt them from him if I don't appear to eager. But they would be useful to me. For one thing, since they speak English, I'd be able to talk to them in a language nobody else knows. And that could be an advantage, especiIF ally when other servants are around. But best of all -- well, the food here is good but sometimes I get a longing for some plain old American cooking. And Grace is a very good cook, when she wants to be. So ##I make her a cook. Duke can't cook but he can learn to wait on table and answer the door and such. Houseboy, in other words." Hugh said slowly, "Joe, you don't want them because Grace can cook." Joe grinned unashamedly. "No, not entirely. I think Duke would look real good as my houseboy. And Grace as my cook. Tit for tat. Oh, ril treat them decently, Hugh, don't you worry. They work hard and behave themselves and they won't get tingled. However, I don't doubt but what it will take a few tingles before they get the idea." He twitched his quirt. "And I won't say I won't enjoy teaching them. I owe them both a little. Three years, Hugh. Three years of Grace's endless demands, never satisfied with anything -- and three years of being treated with patronizing contempt by Duke whenever he was around." Hugh said nothing. Joe said, "Well? What do you think of my plan?" "I thought you were a gentleman, Joe. It seems I was wrong." "So?" Joe barely twitched his quirt. "Boy, we excuse you. All." H ugh came away from Joe's rooms feeling uttedy discoiwaged. He knew that he had been foolish -- no, criminally careless! -- in lotting Joe get his goat. He needed Joe. Until he had Barbara and the twins safely hidden in the high mountains, he needed every possible source of favor and privilege. Joe, Memtok, Ponse, anyone he could find -- and probably Joe most of all. Joe was a Chosen. Joe could go anywhere, tell him things he didn't know, give him things he could not possibly steal. He had even considered, as a last resort, asking Joe to plot with him, help them to escape. Not now! It would take long and careful buttering before he could risk that. Idiot! Utter fool! To risk Barbara and the boys just because you can't hold your bloody temper! It seemed to him that things were as bad as they could get -- and part of it his own folly. But he soon learned that things could be much worse. He did not stand around moping; he looked up Memtok. It had become more urgent than ever to set up some way to communicate with Barbara. Secretly. And that meant that he had to talk to her -- and that mean at least one bridge game in the Lord Protector's lounge and a snatch of talk even if he had to talk English in front of Ponse. He had to force matters. Hugh found the Chief Domestic leaving his office. "Cousin Memtok, could you spare me a word?" Memtok's habitual frown barely relaxed. "Certainly, cousin. But walk along with me, will you? Trouble, fI trouble, trouble. You would think that a department head could run his department without someone to wipe his nose, wouldn't you? You'd be wrong. The freezer flunky complains to the leading butcher and he complains to the chef, and it's a maintenance matter, and you would think that Gnou would take it up directly with engineering and between them they would settle it. Oh, no! They both come to me with their troubles. You know something about construction, don't you?' "Yes," Hugh admitted, "but I'm not up to date in the subject. It has been some years." (About two thousand, my friend! But we won't speak of that.) "Construction is construction. Come along, give me the benefit of your advice." (And find out that I'm faking. Chum, ril double-talk you to death.) "Certainly. If this humble one's opinion is worth anything." "Damned chill room. It's been a headache every summer. I'm glad we'll be back in the Palace soon," "Has the date been set? May one ask?" "One may. A week from tomorrow. So it's time to think about packing up your department and being ready to move." I t was a body blow. Hugh almost stumbled but he tried to keep his face calm and his voice steady. "So soon?" "Why are you looking worried? A few files, some office equipment. Have you any idea how many thousands of items I have on inventory? And how much gets stolen, or lost, or damaged simply because you can't trust any of these fools? Uncle!" "It must be terribly wearing," agreed Hugh. "But that brings to mind something. I petitioned you to let me know when Their Charity was next in residence. I learned from the young Chosen, Joseph, that Their Charity returned a day or two ago and is now gone again." "Are you criticizing?" "Uncle forbid! I was just asking." "It is true that Their Charity was physically present for a short time. But he was not officially in residence. Not in the best of health, it seemed to be -- Uncle protect him." "Uncle protect him well!" Hugh answered sincerely. "Under the circumstances naturally you did not ask him to grant me an audience. But could I ask of you the small favor, next time -- " "We'll talk later. Let's see what these two helpless ones have to offer." Head Chef Gnou and the Chief Engineer met them at the entrance to Gnou's domain, they went on through the kichen, through the butcher shop, and into the cold room. But they lingered in the butcher shop, Memtok impatient, while parka-like garments were fetched, the Chief Domestic having refused the ones offered on the legitimate grounds that they were soiled. The butcher shop was very crowded with live helpers and dead carcasses -- birds, beeves, fish, anything. Hugh reflected that thirtyIF eight Chosen and four hundred and fifty servants ate a lot of meat. He found the place mildly depressing even though he himself had cleaned and cut and trimmed many an animal. But only his habitual tight control in the presence of Memtok and his "cousins" in service kept him from showing shock at something he saw on the floor, trimmed from a carcass almost cut up on one block. It was a dainty, plump, very feminine hand. Hugh felt dizzy, there was a roaring in his ears. He blinked. It was still there. A hand much like Kitten's -- He breathed carefully, controlled the retching within him, kept his back turned until he had command over himself. There had suddenly flooded over him the truth behind certain incongruities, certain idioms, some pointless jokes. He now understood what they had meant. G nou was making nervous conversation while his boss waited. He moved to the chopping block, unintentionally kicking the dainty little hand underneath into a pile of scraps and said, "Here's one you won't have to bother to taste. Chief Domestic. Unless the old one returns unexpectedly." "I always bother to taste," Memtok said coldly. "Their Charity expects his table to be perfect whether he is in residence or not." "Oh, yes, surely," Gnou agreed. "That's what I always tell my cooks. But -- Well, this very roast illustrates one of my problems. Too fat. You'll feel that it's greasy -- and so it will be. But that's what comes of using sluts. Now, in my opinion, you can't find a nicer piece of meat, marbled but firm, than a buck tempered not older than six, then hung at twice that age." "No one asked your opinion," Memtok answered. "Their Charity's opinion is the only one that counts. They thinks that sluts are more tender." "Oh, I agree, I agree! No offense intended." "And none taken. In fact I agree with your opinion. I was simply making clear that your opinion -- and mine in this matter -- is irrelevant. I see they've fetched them. Did they stop to make them?" The party put on heavy garments, went on inside. The engineer had said nothing up to then, effacing himself other than a nod and a friendly grin to Hugh. Now he explained the problem, a cranky one of refrigeration. Hugh tried to keep his eyes on it, rather than on the contents of the meat storage room. Most of the meat was beef and fowl. But one long row of hooks down the center held what he knew he would find -- human carcasses, gutted and cleaned and frozen, hanging head down, save that the heads were missing. Young sluts and bucks, he could see, but whether the bucks were tempered or not was no longer evident. He gulped and thanked his unlucky stars that that pathetic little hand had given him some warning, at least saved him from fainting. "Well, Cousin Hugh, what do you think?" "Why, I agree with Pipes." "That the problem can't be solved?" "No, no." Hugh had not really listened. "His reasoning is correct and he implied the answer. As he says, the problem can't be solved -- now. The thing to do is not to try to patch it up. now. Wait a week. Tear it out. Put in new equipment." Memtok looked sour. "Expensive." "But cheaper in the long run. Good engineering isn't accomplished by grudging a few bullocks. Isn't that right. Pipes?" The engineer nodded vigorously. "Just what I always say, Cousin Hugh! You're absolutely right." Memtok still frowned. "Well --  prepare an estimate. Show it to Cousin Hugh before you bring it to me. Memtok paused on the way out and patted the loin of a stripling buck carcass. "That's what I would call a nice piece of meat. Eh, Hugh?" "Beautiful," Hugh agreed with a straight face. "Your nephew, perhaps? Or just a son?" T here was a frozen silence. Nobody moved except that Memtok seemed to grow taller. He raised his whip of authority most slightly, no more than tightening his thumbless grip. Then suddenly he grimaced and gave a dry chuckle. "Cousin Hugh, your well-known wit will be the death of me yet. That's a good one. Gnou, remind me to tell that this evening." The chef agreed and chuckled, the engineer roared. Memtok gave his cold little laugh again. "I'm afraid I can't claim the honor, Hugh. All these critters are ranch bred, not one of them is a cousin of ours. Yes, I know how it is in some households, but Their Charity considers it unspeakably vulgar to serve a house servant, even in cases of accidental death. And besides, it makes the servants restless." "Commendable." "Yes. It is gratifying to serve one who is a stickler for propriety. Enough, enough, lime is wasting. Walk back with me, Hugh." IF Once they were clear of the rest Memtok said, "You were saying?" "Excuse me?" "Come, come, you're being absent-minded today. Something about Their Charity not being in residence." "Oh, yes. Memtok, could you possibly, as a special favor to me, let me know the minute Their Charity returns? Whether officially in residence or not? Not petition anything for me. Just let me know." Damn it, with time pouring away like life through a severed artery his only course might be a belly-scraping apology to Joe. then get Joe to intercede. "No." said Memtok. "No. I don't think I can." "T beg your pardon? Has this one offended you?" "You mean that witticism? Heaven, no! Some might find it vulgar and one bullock gets you three that if you had told it in sluts' quarters some of them would have fainted. But if there is one thing I pride myself on, Hugh, it's my sense of humor -- and any day I can't see a joke simply because I am the butt of it, T'll petition to turn in my whip. No, it was simply my turn to have a little joke at your expense. I said, T don't think I can.' That is a statement of two meanings -- a double-meaning joke, follow me? I don't think I can tell you when Their Charity returns because he has sent word to me that he is not returning. So you'll see him next at the Palace... and I promise I'll let you know when he's in residence." The Chief Domestic dug him in the ribs. "I wish you had seen your own face. My little joke wasn't nearly as sharp as yours. But your jaw dropped. Very comical." H ugh excused hmself, went to his rooms, took an extra bath, a most thorough one, then simply thought until dinner time. He braced himself for the ordeal of dinner with a carefully measured dose of Happiness -- not enough to affect him later, strong enough to carry him through dinner, now that he knew why "pork" appeared so often on the menu of the Chosen. He suspected that the pork served to the servants was really pork. But he intended to eat no more bacon nevertheless. Nor ham, nor ponk chops, nor sausage. In fact he might turn vegetarian. He was very busy that evening, writing long after Kitten was asleep. It had become utterly necessary to reach Barbara secretly, yet his only means was the insecure route through Kitten. The problem was to write to Barbara in a code that only she could read, and which she would see as a code without having been warned and without the code being explained to her -- and yet one which was safe from others. But the double-talk mixture he had last sent her would not do; he was now going to have to give her detailed instructions, ones where it really mattered if she missed a word or failed to guess a concealed meaning. His last draft was a miracle of double-talk. 'f Sjp toeve vr. T wooU bv ,#eT.Y t gcd Vo Rbo voV,c I TbC.n, X'tv Sore. Ur's ors.J,r GS.r aUen CXft.wc Co,n you ret-Xl Vv X c.mcjl 'tAa:!: U#.t t#ve kr#cVo rereci myircry woni-eri tf'fbre VCve.'t S#t# #. t.roe beto-oje Ke eer could be milt'e dry oo en re-ivn" nsu)r r o-oSur# iie # doiy orii #slx Irle #" TotAeC# n ftlorue  or Vc Co-g e j Mc orooe#i Let-ror- tne r'JlO-''Uet  HcmtN coVv VbQ CovxSder slo.n' S So rco-cVveS  S sevTnces #U oc V-tJTr io,l u # o'h'H Stvdi Let's hcve or  UVera.ry ' S y Vfew .VouT WctVC Tuuin TireA Since Hugh had never discussed Edgar Allan Poe with Barbara at any time, he was certain that she would study the note for a hidden message. The only question was whether or not she would find it. He wanted her to read it as: If you can read this answer the same way period Having done his best he put it aside, first disposing of all trial work, then prepared to do something else much more risky. At that point he would have given his chances of immortal bliss, plus # for a cheap flashlight -- and then have settled for a candle. or softly as he wished, by glowing, translucent spheres set in the upper corners. Hugh did not know what they were save that they were not any sort of electric light he had ever known. They gave off no heat, seemed not to require wiring, and were controlled by little cranks. A similar light, the size of a golf ball, was mounted on his scroll reader. It was controlled by twisting it; he had decided tentatively that twisting these spheres polarized them in some way. He tried to dismount the scroll reader light. He finally got it loose by breaking IF the upper frame. It was now a feanothing he could do would dim it -- which was almost as embarrassing as no light at all. He found that he could conceal it in an armpit under his robe. There was still a glow but not much. H e made sure that Kitten was asleep, turned out all lights, raised his corridor door, looked out. The passageway was dim, lighted only by a standing light at an intersection fifty yards away. Regrettably he had to go that way. He had expected no light at this hour. He felt his "knife" taped to his left arm -- not much of a knife, but patient whetting with a rock picked up from a garden path had put and edge on it, and tape had made a firm grip. It still needed hours more work and he could work on it only after Kitten was asleep or in time stolen from working hours. But it felt good to have it there and it was the only knife, chisel, screwdriver, or burglar's jimmy that he had. The manhole to the engineering service tunnels which he wanted lay in the passage to the right after he had to pass' the lighted intersection. Any manhole would do, hut that one was on the logical route to the veterinary's quarters. If caught outside his rooms but otherwise without cream on his lip. he planned to plead a sudden stomach ache. The manhole cover swung back easily on a hinge, it was fastened by a clasp that needed only turning to free it. The floor of the tunnel, glimpsed with his tiny sphere, lay four feet below the corridor floor. He started to let himself down and ran into his first trouble. These manholes, and the tunnels they led to, had been intended for men a foot shorter and fifty pounds lighter than Hugh Farnham, and proportionately smaller in shoulders, hips, hand-and-knees, height, and so forth. But he could make it. He had to. He wondered how he would make it when it counted, crawling and carrying at least one baby. But that he had to do, too. So he would. He almost trapped himself. Barely in time he found that the under side of the steel door was smooth, no handle and that it latched automatically by a spring catch. That settled why no one worried that the studs might gain unplanned access to sluts. But it also settled something else. Hugh had seriously considered snatching this very chance, if he found things quiet at the other end: Wake Barbara, bring all four of them back via the tunnel -- then outside and away, by any of half a dozen weak points, away and off to the mountains on foot, reach them before light, find some stream and ford it endwise long enough to throw off hounds. Go, go, go.' With almost no food, with nothing but a makeshift knife, with no equipment, a "night shirt" for clothing, and no hope of anvthing better. Go? And save his family, of die with them. But die free! Perhaps, perhaps some day his ff twin sons, wiser in the new ways than himself and toughened by a life fighting nature, could lead an uprising against this foul thing. But all he planned to do, all he could hope for, was get them free, keep them free, alive and free and ungelded until they were grown and strong. Or die. Such was still his plan. He wasted not a moment sorrowing over that spring catch. It merely meant that he must communicate with Barbara, and set a time with her, because she would have to open the hatch at the far end. Tonight he could only reconnoiter. He found that tape from his knife handle would hold the spring catch back. He tested it from above, and found that the lid could now be swung back without turning the clasp. But his wild instincts warned him that this would not do. The tape might not Hold until he was back. He might be trapped inside. H e spent a sweating half hour working on that spring catch, using knife and fingers and holding the light ball in his teeth. At last he managed to get at and break the spring. He removed the catch entirely. The manhole, closed, now looked normal, but it could be opened from underneath with just a push. Only then did he let himself down inside and close it over him. He started oiit on knees and elbows with the light in his mouth, and stopped almost at once. The damned skirt of his robe kept him from crawling! He tried bunching it around his waist. It slid down. At last he inched back to the manhole shaft, took the pesky garment off entirely, left it under the manhole and crawled away without it, naked save for knife strapped to his arm and the light in his teeth. He found that he could then make fair progress, although never able to get fully on hands and knees. His elbows had to be bent, his thighs he could not bring erect, and there were places where valves and fittings of the pipes he crawled past forced him almost to his belly. Nor could he tell how far he was going. However, there were joints in the tunnel about (it seemed to him) every thirty feet; he counted them and tried to match them in his IF mind with the engineering drawing. Pass under two manholes... harp left turn into another tunnel at next manhole... crawl about a hundred and fifty feet and under one manhole -- Something more than an hour later he was under a manhole which had to be the one closest to Barbara. If he had not lost himself in the bowels of the palace -- If he had correctly remembered that complex drawing -- If the drawing was up to date -- (Had two thousand years made any difference in the wellknown lag between engineering changes and revisions of the prints to match?) If Kitten knew what she was talking about in locating Barbara's billet by a method so novel to her -- If it was still Barbara's billet -- He crouched in the awkward space and tried to press his ear against the shaft's cover. He heard a baby cry. About ten minutes later he heard hushed female voices. They approached, passed over him, and someone stepped on the lid. Hugh unkinked himself, prepared to return. The space was so tight that the ob'Wous way was to back up the way he had come, so he found himself trying to crawl backward through the tunnel. That worked so poorly that he came back to the shaft and, with some contortions and loss of skin, he sot turned around. What seemed hours later he was convinced that he was lost. He began to wonder which was the more likely: Would he starve or die of thirst down here? Or would some repairman get the shock of his simple life by finding him first? But he kept on crawling. His hands found his robe before his eyes saw it. Five minutes later he was in it; seven minutes later (he stopped to listen) he was up and out and had the lid closed. He forced himself not to run back to his rooms. Kitten was awake. He wasn't aware of it until she followed him into the bath. Then she was saying with wide-eyed horror, "Oh, dear! Your poor knees! And your elbows, too." "I stumbled and fell down." She didn't argue it, she simply insisted on bathing him and salving and taping the raw places. But when she started to pick up his dirty robe, he told her sharply to go to bed. He did not mind her touching his robe. But his knife had been on top of it and only by clumsy maneuvering had he managed to keep himself between her and it long enough for him to flip a fold of cloth over the weapon. Kitten went silently to bed. Hugh hid the knife in its usual place (much too high for Kitten), then went into his living room and found the child crying in her pillow. He petted her, soothed her, said he had not meant to sound harsh, and fed with her while she drank it, watched her go happily to sleep. Then he did not even try to get along without it himself. Kitten had her a bonus dose of Happiness -- sat gone to sleep with one hand outside her cover. It looked to Hugh exactly like a forlorn little hand he had seen twelve hours earlier on the floor of a butcher shop. He was exhausted and the drink let him go to sleep. But not to rest. He found himself at a dinner party, black tie and dressy. But he did not like the menu. Hungarians goulash... French fries... Chinese noodles... po' boy sandwich... breast of peasant... baked Alaskans -- but it was all pork. His host insisted that he taste every dish. "Come, come!" he chided with a witnry smile. "How do you know you don't like it if you don't taste it? One bullock gets you three you'll learn to love it." Hugh moaned and could not wake up. itten did not chatter at breakfast, which suited him. Two hours of nightmare-ridden sleep was not enough, yet it was necessary to go to his office and pretend to work. Mostly he stared at the print framed over his desk while his scroll reader clicked unnoticed. After lunch he sneaked away and tried to catch a nap. But the engineer scratched at his door and apologetically asked him to look over his estimates on refitting the meat cooler. Hugh poured his guest a dollop of Happiness, then pretended to study figures that meant nothing to him. After a decent time he complimented the man, then scrawled a note to Memtok, recommending the idea that the contract be let. Barbara's note that night applauded the idea of a literary discussion club by mail and discussed Mark Twain. Hugh was interested only in how it read diagonally: Did I read it correctly darlingi iquestiom mark Darling must escape nex days ready night after letter has phrase freedom lonel thing -- F or the next three days Hugh's letters to Barbara were very long and chatty and discussed everything from Mark Twain's use of colloquial idiom to the influence of progressive education on the relaxation of grammar. Her answers were lengthy, equally "literary," and reported that she would be ready to IF the hatch, confirmed that she understood, that sihe had a little stock of food, had no knife, no shoes -- but that her feet were very calloused -- and that her only worry was that the twins might cry or that her roommates might wake up, especially as two of them were still giving night feedings to their babies. But for Hugh not to worry, she would manage. Hugh drew a fresh bottle of Happiness, taped it near the top of the shaft, instructed her to tell her roommates that she had stolen it, then use it to get them so hopped on the drug that they would either sleep or be so slaphappy that if they did wake, they would do nothing but giggle -- and, if possible, get enough of the drug into the twins that the Infants would pass out and not cry no matter how they were handled. Making an extra trip through the tunnels to plant the bottle was a risk Hugh hated to take. But he made it pay. He not only timed himself by the clocks in his room and learned beyond any possibility of mistake the rat maze he must follow but also he carried a practice load, a package of scrolls taped together to form a mass bigger and heavier, he felt sure, than one of his infant sons would be. This he tied to his chest with a sling made of stolen cloth; it had been a dust cover for the scroll printer in his offices. He made two such slings, one for Barbara, and tore and tied them such that they could be shifted to the back later to permit the babies to bo carried papoose style. He found that it was difficult but not impossible to carry a baby in this fashion through the low tunnels, and he spotted the places where it was necessary to inch forward with extreme care not to place any pressure on his dummy "precious burden" and still not let the ties on his back catch on engineering fittings above him. But it could be done and he got back to his rooms without waking Kitten -- he had increased her evening bonus of Happiness. He replaced the scrolls hid his knife and spherical lamp, washed his knees and elbows and anointed them, then sat down and wrote a long P.S. to the letter he had written earlier to tell Barbara how to find the bottle. This postscript added some afterthoughts about the philosophy of Hemingway and remarked that it seemed odd that a writer would in one story say that "freedom is a lonely thing" and in another story state that -- and so on. That night he gave Kitten her usual amplified nightcap, then said, "Not much left in this bottle. Finish it off and I'll get a fresh one tomorrow." "Oh, I'd get terribly silly. You wouldn't like me." "Go ahead, drink it. Have a good time, live it up. What else is life for?" Half an hour later Kitten was bed. Hugh stayed with her until she was snoring heavily. He covered her hands, stood looking down at her, knelt and kissed her good-bye. A few minutes later he was down the first manhole with the lid closed over him. H e took off his robe, piled on it a bundle of what he had collected for survival -- food, sandals, his stolen wig, two pots of servants' deodorant cream into which he had blended brown pigment. He did not expect to use disguise and had little faith in it, but if they were overtaken by daylight before they were in the mountains, he intended to darken all four of them, tear their robes into something resembling the breechclout and wrap-around which he had learned were the working clothes of free peasant farmers among the Chosen -- "poor black trash" as Joe called them -- and try to brazen it out, keeping away from people if possible, until it was dark again. He tied one baby sling to him with the other inside it and started. He hurried, as time was everything. Even if Barbara managed to pass out her roommates promptly, even if he had no trouble breaking out at his preferred exit, even if the crawl back through the tunnels could be made in less than an hour -- doubtful, with the kids -- they could not be outdoors earlier than midnight, which allowed them five hours of darkness to reach wild country. Could he hope for three miles an hour? Tt seemed unlikely, Barbara barefooted and both carrying kids, the country unknown and dark -- and those moutains seen from his window seemed to be at least fifteen miles away. It would be a narrow squeak even if everything broke his way. He made fast time to sluts' quarters, punishing his knees and elbows. The bottle was missing, he could feel the tacky places where he had fastened it. He settled himself as comfortably as possible and concentrated on quieting his pounding heart, slowing his breathing, and relaxing. He tried to make his mind blank. He actually dozed off. But he was instantly alert when the lid over him was raised. Barbara made no sound. She handed him one of their sons, he stuffed the limp little body as far down the tunnel as he could reach. She handed him the other, he placed it beside the first, then added a pitiful little bundle she had. But he did not kiss her until they were both down inside -- only seconds after he had wakened -- and the lid had clicked into place over them. She clung to him, sobbing; he whispered fiercely not to make a sound, then added last-minute instructions into her ear. She quieted instantly, nodded acknowledgement; they got busy. It was agonizingly difficult to get ready for the crawl in a space too small for either of them and nearly impossible for them both. They did it because they had to. First he helped her get out of the shorter garment sluts wore, then he had her lie down with her legs back in the other reach of the tunnel while he IF Hcd a baby sling to her, then a baby was stuffed into each sling and the knots tightened to keep each child ng as firmly in its little hammock as possible. Barbara's baggage was a problem Hugh soived by knotting Ac skirt of her garment together, stuffing her hoarded food into the sack thus formed, tying the sleeves around his left leg and letting it drag behind. He had planned to tie ft around his waist, but the sleeves were too short. That done (it seemed to take hours), he had Barbara back up into the far reach of the tunnel, Aen managed most painfully to turn himself around and get headed the right way without banging little Hughies skull. Or was it Karl Joseph? He had forgotten to ask. Either one, the baby's warm body against his, its lightly sensed breathing, gave him fresh courage. By God, they would make it! Whatever got in his way would die. H e set out, with the light in his teeth, moving very fast whenever clearance let him do so without danger to the child. He did not slow down for Barbara and had warned her that he would not unless she called out. She did not, ever. Once her baggage worked loose from his leg. They stopped and he had her tie it to his ankle; that was their only rest. They made good time but it seemed forever before he reached Ae little pile of plunder. They unslung the babies and caught their breaths. Then he helped Barbara back into her shift, rearranged her sling to carry her one baby papoose fashion, and made up their luggage into one bundle. All that he held out was his knife, still taped to his arm, his robe, and the light. He showed her how to hold the light in her mouth, then spread her lips and let the tiniest trickle leak out between her teeth. She tried it. "You look ghastly," he whispered. "Like a jack o' lantern. But it's better than a flashlight. No hands. Now listen carefully. Fm going up. You be ready to hand me my robe instantly. I may reconnoiter." "I could help you get it on, right here." "No, because if Fm caught coming out, there will be a fight and it would slow me down. But I won't want it, probably, until we reach a storeroom that is our next fairly safe place. If it's all clear above, Fll want you to hand out everything fast, including the baby who's not on your back. But you will have to carry him as well as the bundle and my robe; Fve got to have both hands free. Darling, I don't want to kill anybody but if anyone is unlucky enough to get in our way, I will. You understand that, don't you?" She nodded. "So I carry everything. Can do, my husband." "You follow me, fast. It's about two city blocks to that storeroom and we probably won't see or hear anyone. I jiggered the lock on it late Ais afternoon, stuffed a wad of Kitten's chewing gum into it. Once insidi rearrange things and see if you can wear my sandals." "My feet are all right. Feel." "Maybe we'll take turns wearing them. Never mind. I then have to break a lock on a delivery door but I spotted some steel bars a week ago which ought still to be there. Anyhow, I'll break out. Then away we go, as fast as we can trot. It should be breakfast time before we are missed, sometime after that before they are sure we are gone, still longer before a chase is organized. We'll make it." "Sure we will." "Just one thing. If I reach for my robe and then close the lid on you, stay here. Don't make a sound, don't try to peek out." "I won't." lips. I'm going to sneak a peek." He raise the lid a quarter of an inch, then lowered it. "In luck," he whispered. "Even the standing light is out. Here I go. Be ready to hand things up fast. Joey first. And don't show a light." He pushed the lid up and flat down without a sound, raised himself, got his feet to the corridor floor, A light him. "That's far enough," a dry voice said. "Doti't move." He kicked the whip hand so fast that the whip flew aside as he closed Then this -- and that -- and sure enough! The man's neck was broken, just as the book said it would be. Instantly he knelt down. "Everything out! Fast!" Barbara did not answer; she shov"I might be gone an hour. I might ed baby and baggage up to him, was fake a belly ache and have to see the vet, then come back." "All right," "Barbara, it might even be twentyfour hours, if anything goes wrong. Can you stay here and keep quiet and keep the twins quiet that long? If you must?" "Whatever it takes, Hugh." He kissed her. "Now put the light back in your mouth and close your out fast as he took her hand. "Some light," he whispered. "His went out and I've got to dispose of him." She gave him light. Memtok -- Hugh quelled his surprise, stuffed the body down the hole, closed the lid. Barbara was ready, baby on back, baby in left arm, bundle in right. "We go on! Stay close on my heels!" He set out for the intersection, holding his course in the dark by finger tips on the wall. He never saw the whip that got him. All he knew was the pain. XX F or a long time Mr. Hugh Famham was aware of nothing but pain. When it eased off, he found that he was in a confinement cell like the one in which he had lived his first days under the Protectorate -- possibly the same one. He was there three days. He thought it was three days, as he was fed six times. He always knew when they were about to feed him -- and to empty his slop jar, for he was not taken outside for any purpose. He would find himself restrained by that invisible spider web, then someone would come inside, leave food, replace the slop jar, and go. He soon learned that it was impossible to get the servant who did this to answer him. After what might have been three days he found himself unexpectedly caught up by that prisoning field (he had just been fed) and his old colleague and "cousin" the Chief Veterinary ' came in. Hugh had more Aan a suspicion as to why; his feeling amounted to a conviction, so he pleaded, demanded to be taken to the Lord Protector and finally shouted. The surgeon ignored it. He did something to Hugh's thigh, then left. To Hugh's limited relief he did not become unconscious, but he found, when the tanglefoot field let up, that he could not move anyhow and that he felt lethargic. Shortly two servants came in, picked him up, placed him in a box all too much like a coffin. Hugh found that he was being shipped somewhere. His shipping case was given casual but not rough handling; once he felt a lift surge to a stop; his boX was placed in something; and some minutes, hours, or days later it was moved again; and presently he was dumped into another confinement room. He knew it was a different one; the walls were light green instead of white. By the time they fed him he had recovered and was again "tangled" while food was placed inside. This went on for one hundred and twenty-two meals. Hugh kept track by biting a chunk out of his toolong finger nails and scratching the inside of his left arm. This took him less than five minutes each day; he spent the rest of his time worrying and sometimes sleeping. Sleeping was worse than worrying because he always re-enacted his escape attempt in his sleep and it always ended in disaster -- although not necessarily at the same point. He did not always kill his friend the Chief Domestic and at least twice they got all the way to the mountains before they were caught. But, long or short, it ended the same way and he would wake up sobbing and calling for Barbara. He worried most about Barbara -- and the twins, although the boys were not as real to him. He had never heard of a slut being severely punished for anything. However, he had never heard of a slut being involved in an attempted escape and know. But he did know that the Lord Protector preferred slut meat for his table. He tried to tell himself that old Ponse, whatever he did, would do nothing to a slut while she was still nursing babies -- and that would be a long time yet; among servants, according to Kitten, mothers nursed babies for at least two years. He worried about Kitten, too. Would the child be punished for something she had nothing to do with? A completely innocent bystander. Again he did not know. There was "justice" here; it was a major branch of religious writings. But he also knew that it resembled so little the concept "justice" of his own culture that he had found the stuff almost unreadable. H e spent most of his time on what he thought of as "constructive" worry, i.e., what he should have done rather than what he had done. He saw now that his plans had been laughably inadequate. He should never let himself be panicked into moving .too soon. It would have been far better to have built up his connection with Joe, never disagreed with him, tickled his vanity, gone to work for him and, in time, prevailed on him to adopt Barbara and the kids. Joe was an accommodating person and old Ponse was so open-handed that he might simply have made Joe a present of these three useless servants instead of demanding cash. The boys would have been in no danger for years (and perhaps never in danger if Joe owned them), and, in time, Hugh could have expected to become a trusted business servant, with a broad pass allowing him to go anywhere on his master's business -- and Hugh would have acquired sophisticated knowledge of how this world worked that a house servant could never acquire. Once he learned exactly how it ticked, he could have planned an escape that would work. Any society man has ever devised, he reminded himself, could be bribed -- and a servant who handles money can find ways to steal some. Probably there was an "underground railroad" that ran to the mountains. Yes, he had been far too hasty. He considered, too, the wider aspects -- a slave uprising. He visualized those tunnel being used not for escape but as a secret meeting place. Classes in reading and writing, taught in whispers; oaths as mighty as a Mau Mau initiation binding the conspirators as blood brothers, with each Chosen having marked against his name a series of dedicated assassins, servants patiently and slowly grinding scraps of metal into deadly knives. This "constructive" dream he enjoyed most -- and believed in least. Would these docile sheep ever rebel? It seemed unlikely. He had been classed with them by accident of complexion but they were not of his breed even though he did not IP doubt that they were of his ancestry. Centuries of selective breeding had made them something else, as little like himself as a lap dog is like a timber wolf. And yet, and yet, how did he know? He knew only the tempered males, and the few studs he had seen had all been dulled by a liberal ration of "Happiness" -- to say nothing of what it might do to a man's fighting spirit to lose his thumbs at an early age and be driven around with whips-that-were-morethan-whips. This matter of racial differences -- or the equally nonsense notion of "racial equality" -- had never been examined scientifically; there was too much emotion on both sides. Nobody wanted honest data. Hugh recalled an area in Pernambuco he had seen while in the Navy, a place where the rich plantation owners, dignified, polished, educated in France, were all black, while their servants and field hands -- giggling, shuffling, shiftless knuckleheads "obviously" incapable of better things -- were mostly white men. He had stopped telling this anecdote in the States. It was never really believed and it was almost always resented -- even by Whites who made a big thing of how anxious they were to "help the American Negro improve himself." Hugh had formed the opinion that almost all of these bleeding hearts wanted the Negro's lot improved until it was almost as high as their own -- and no longer on their consciences. But the idea that the tables could ever be fully turned was one they rejected emotionally. Hugh knew that the tables could indeed be turned. He had seen it that once, now he was experiencing it. But Hugh knew that the situation was still more confused. Many Roman citizens had been "black as the ace of spades" and many slaves of Romans had been as blond as Hitler wanted to be -- so any "white man" of European ancestry was certain to have a dash of Negro blood. Sometimes more than a dash. That southern Senator, what was his name? -- the one who had built his career on "white supremacy." Hugh had come across two sardonic facts: This old boy had died from cancer of the jaw and had had many blood tranfusions -- and his blood type was such that the chances were two hundred to one that its owner had not just a touch of the tar brush but practically the whole tar barrel. A Navy surgeon had gleefully pointed this out to Hugh and had proved both points in medical literature. Nevertheless, this confused matter of races would never be straightened out -- because almost nobody wanted the truth. Take this matter of singing. It had seemed self-evident to Hugh that Negroes of his time averaged better singers than had whites; most people seemed to think so and Hugh felt such a preference. Yet the very persons, white or black, who insisted most loudly that "all races were equal" always seemed happy to agree that Negroes were superior. on the average, in this one way. It reminded Hugh of Orwell's Animal Farm, in which "All Animals Are Equal But Some Are More Equal Than Others." Well, he knew who wasn't equal here -- despite his statistically certain drop or more of black blood. Hugh Farnham, namely. He found that he agreed with Joe; When things were unequal, it was much nicer to be on top! O n the sixty-first day in this new place, if it was the sixty-first, they came for him, bathed him, cut his finger and toe nails, rubbed him all over with deodorant cream, and paraded him before the Lord Protector. Hugh learned that he still could be humiliated by not being given even a night shirt as clothing, but he conceded that it was a reasonable precaution in handling a prisoner who killed with his bare hands. His escort were two young Chosen, in uniforms which Hugh assumed to be military, and the whips they carried were definitely not "lesser whips." The route they followed was very long; it was clearly a huge building. The room where he was finally delivered was very like in spirit (although different in detail) to the informal lounge where Hugh had once played bridge. The big view window looked out over a wide tropical river. Hugh hardly glanced at it; the Lord Protector was there. And so were Barbara and the twins! The babies were crawling on the floor. But Barbara was breast deep in that invisible quicksand, a trap that claimed Hugh as soon as he was halted. She smiled at him but did not speak. He looked her over carefully. She seemed unhurt and healthy, but she was thin and had deep circles under her eyes. He started to speak; she gestured warningly with eyes and head. Hugh then looked at the Lord Protector -- and noticed only then that Joe was lounging near him and that Grace and Duke were playing some card game over in a corner, both of them chewing gum and both ostentatiously not seeing that Hugh was there. He looked back at Their Charity. Hugh decided that Ponse had been ill. Despite the fact that Hugh felt comfortably warm in skin Ponse was wearing a full robe with a shawl over his lap and he looked, for once, almost his reputed age. But when he spoke, his voice was still resonant. "You may go. Captain. We excuse you." The escort withdrew. Their Charity looked Hugh over soberly. At last he said, "Well, boy, you certainly made a mess of things, didn't you?" He looked down and played with something in his lap, caught it and pulled it back to the middle of the shawl. Hugh saw that it was a white mouse. He felt sudden sympathy for the mouse. It didn't seem to like where it was, but if it did manage to escape, the cats would quickly get it. Maggie was watching with deep interest. IF Hugh did not answer, the renark seemed rhetorical. But it had tartled him very much. Ponse covered the mouse with his hand, looked up. "Well? Say something!" "You speak English!" #CTon't look so silly. Of course I do. I'm a scholar, Hugh. Do you think I would let myself be surrounded by people who speak a language I don't understand? I speak it, and I read it, silly as the spelling is. I've been tutored daily by skilled scholars -- plus conversation practice with a living dictionary." He jerked his head toward Grace. "Couldn't you guess that I would want to read those books of mine? Not be dependent on your hit-or-miss translations? I've read the 'Just So Stories' twice. Charming!" He shifted back to Language. "But we are not here to discuss literature." Their Charity barely gestured. Four slut servants came running in with a table, placed it in front of the big man, placed things on it. Hugh recognized them all -- a homemade knife, a wig, two pots for deodorant cream, a bundle that would be food, an empty Happiness bottle, a' little white sphere now dull, a pair of sandals, two robes, one long, one short, and both mussed and rather dirty, and a surprisingly high stack of paper, creased and much written on. Ponse put the white mouse on the table, stirred the display of exhibits, said broodingly, "I'm no fool, Hugh. Fve owned servants all my life. I had you figured out before you had yourself figured out. Doesn't do to let a man like you mingle with loyal servants, he corrupts them. Gives them ideas they are better off without. I had planned to let you escape as soon as I was through with you. You could have afforded to wait." "Do you expect me to believe that?" Doesn't matter whether you do or don't. It's the truth. I could not afford to have you very long -- one bad apple rots the rest, as my uncle was fond of saying. Nor could I put you up for adoption and let some unwitting buyer pay good money for a servant who would then corrupt others elsewhere in my realm. No, you had to escape." "Even if that is so, I would never have escaped without Barbara and my boys." "I said I am not a fool. Kindly remember it. Of course you would not. I was going to use Barba -- and these darling brats -- to force you to escape. At my selected time. Now you've ruined it. I must make an example of you. For the benefit of the other servants." He frowned and picked up the crude knife. "Poor balance. Hugh, did you really expect to make it with this pitiful tackle? Not even shoes for that child by you. If only you had waited a decent time, you would have been given opportunity to steal what you really needed." "Ponse, you are playing with me the way you've been playing with that mouse. You weren't planning to let us escape. Not really escape at least. I would have wound up on your table." 'Tlease!" The old man made a grimace of distaste. "Hugh, Pm not well, someone has again been trying to poison me -- my nephew, I suppose -- and this time almost succeeded. So don't talk nasty, it upsets my stomach." He looked Hugh up and down. 'Tough. Inedible. An old stud savage is merely garbage. Much too gamy. Besides that, a gentleman doesn't eat members of his own family, no matter what. The thought is repugnant to me. So let's not talk in bad taste. There's no cause for you to bristle so. I'm not angry with you, just very, very provoked." He glanced at the twins, said, "Hughie, stop pulling Maggie's tail." His voice was neither loud nor sharp; the baby stopped at once. "Admittedly those two would make tasty appetizers were they not of my household. But even had they not been, I would have planned better things for them; they are so cute and so much alike. Did plan better things at first. Until it became clear that they were necessary to forcing you to run." P onse sighed. "I can see that you still do not believe a word I'm saying. Hugh, you don't understand the system. Well, servants never do. Did you ever grow apples?" "No." "A good eating apple, firm and sweetly tart, is never a product of nature. It is the result of long development under careful control from something small and sour and hard and hardly fit for animal fodder. Then it has to be scientifically propagated and protected. On the other hand, too highly developed plants -- or animals -- can go bad, lose their firmness, their flavor, get mushy and soft and worthless. It's a nice two-horned problem. We have it constantly with servants. On the one hand you must weed out the rebels, the troublemakers, not let them breed. On the other hand these very troublemakers, the worst of them, are invaluable breeding stock that must not be lost. So we do both. The run-of-the-crop bad ones we temper and keep. The very worst ones -- such as you -- we encourage to run. If you live -- and some of you do -- we can rescue you, or your strong get, at a later time and add you in, judiciously, to a breeding line that has become so soft and docile and stupid that it is no longer worth its keep. Our poor friend Memtok was a result of such pepping up of the breed. One quarter savage he was. He never knew it of course -- and a good stud that added strength to a line. But far too dangerous and ambitious to be kept too long at stud; he had to be made to see the advantages of being tempered. Most of my upper servants have a recent strain of savage in them. Some of them are Memtok's sons. My engineer, for example. No, Hugh, you would not have wound up on anybody's table. Nor tempered. I would like to have kept you as a pet, you're diverting -- and a fair bridge hand in the bargain. But I could not let you stay in contact with my loyal servants. Presently you would have been put in touch with the underground." IF Hugh opened his mouth and closed it. "Surprised, eh? But there is always an underground, throughout history, wherever there is a ruling class and a serving class. Which is to say, always. If there were not an underground, it would be necessary to invent one. However, since there is one, we keep track of it, subsidize it -- and use it. In the upper servants' mess its contact is the veterinary -- trusted by everyone and quite shamelessly free of sentiment. I don't like him. But if you had confided in him, you would have been guided, advised, and helped. I would have used you to cover about a hundred sluts, then sent you on your way. Don't look started. Even Their Mercy uses studs who have to stoop a bit to get through the studs' door when a freshening of the line is indicated -- and there was always the danger that you might get you yourself, and those dear boys, killed, and thereby have wasted your fine potential." T heir Charity picked up the pile of Kitten-delivered mail. "These things -- All my Chief Domestic was expected to do was to thwart you frofn doing something silly; he never knew the veterinary's second function. Why, I even had to crack down on Memtok a bit to turn his copies of these things over to me -- when anyone could have guessed that a stud like you would find a way to get in touch with his slut. I deduced that it would happen that time that you stood up to me about her, our first bridge game. Remember? Perhaps you don't. But I sent for Memtok, and sure enough, you had already started. Although he was reluctant to admit it, since he had not reported it." Hugh was hardly listening. He was turning over in his mind the glaring fact that he was hearing things told only to dead men. None of the four of them was going to leave this room alive. No, perhaps the twins would. Yes, Ponse wanted the breeding line. But he -- and Barbara, too -- would never have a chance to talk. But Ponse was saying. "You still have a chance to correct your mistakes. And you made lots of them. One note you wrote my scholars assured me was gibberish, not English at all. So I knew it was a secret message whether we could read it or not. So thereafter all your notes were subjected to careful analysis, not just reading. So of course we found the key -- rather naive to be considered a code, rather clever considering the handicaps. And very useful to me. But confound it, Hugh, it cost me! Memtok was naive about savages, he did not realize that they fight when cornered." Ponse scowled. "Damn you, Hugh, your recklessness cost me a valuable property. I wouldn't have taken ten thousand bullocks for Memtok's adoption -- no, not twenty. And now your life is forfeit. The purely technical charge of attempting to run we could overlook, a tingling in front of the other servants would cover that. Destroying your master's property we could even cover up if it had been done secretly. Did you know that that bedwarmer I lent you knew most of what you were up to? Saw much of it? Sluts gossip." "She told you?" "No, damn it, it didn't tell the half; we had to tingle it out of it. Then it turned out it knew so much that we could not afford to have it talking and the other servants putting one and one together. So it had to go." "You had her killed." Hugh felt a surge of disgust and said it, knowing that nothing he said could matter now. "What's it to you? Its life was forfeit, treason to its master. However, I'm not a spiteful man, the little critter has no moral sense and didn't know what it was doing -- you must have hypnotized it, Hugh -- and I am a frugal man; I don't uselessly waste property. It's adopted so far away now that it'll have trouble understanding the accent, much less have its stories believed." Hugh sighed. "I'm relieved." "Choice about the slut, eh? Was it that good?" "She was innocent. I didn't want her hurt." "As may be. Now, Hugh, you can repair all this costly mess. Pay me back the damage and do yourself a good turn at the same time." "How?""Quite simple. You've cost me my key executive servant, I've no one of his caliber to replace him. So you take his place, that's all. No scandal, no fuss, no upset below stairs -- every servant who saw any piece of it is already adopted away. And you can tell any story you like about what happened to Memtok. Or even claim you don't know. Barba, can you refrain from gossip?" "I certainly can where Hugh's welfare is concerned." "That's a good child. I would hate to have you muted, it would hamper our bridge game. Although Hugh will be rather busy for bridge. Hugh, here's the honey that trapped the bear. You take over as Chief Domestic, do the kind of job I know you can do once you learn the details -- and Barba and the twins live with you. What you always wanted. Well, that's the choice. Be my boss servant and have them with you. Or your lives are forfeit. What do you say?" H ugh Farnham was so dazed that he was gulping, trying to accept, when Their Charity added, "Just one thing. I won't be able to let you have them with you right away." "No?" "No. I still want to breed a few from you, before you are tempered. Needn't be long, if you are as spry as you look." Barbara said, "No!" But Hugh Farnham was making a terrible decision. "Wait, Barbara. Ponse. What about the boys? Will they be tempered, too?" "Oh.' Ponse thought about it. "You drive a hard bargain, Hugh. Suppose we say that they will not be. Let's say that I might use them at stud a bit -- but not take their thumbs; it would be a dead giveaway for so private a purpose with IF studs as tall as they are going to be. Then at fourteen or fifteen I let them escape. Does that suit you?" The old man stopped to cough; a painful spasm racked him. "Damn it, you're tiring me." Hugh pondered it. "Ponse, you may not be alive fourteen or fifteen years from now." "True. But it is very impolite for you to say so." "Can you bind this bargain for your heir? Mrika?" Ponse rubbed his hair and grinned. "You're a sharp one, Hugh. What a Chief Domestic you will make! Of course I can't -- which is why I want some get from you, without waiting for the boys to mature. But there is always a choice, just as you have a choice now. I can see to it that you are in my heavenly escort. All of you, the boys, too. Or I can have you all kept alive and you can work out a new bargain, if any. 'Le Roi est mort, vive le Roi' -- which was the ancients' way of saying that when the protector leaves there is always a new protector. Just tell me. I'll do it either way." Hugh was thinking over the grim choices when Barbara again spoke up. "Their Charity -- " "Yes, child?" "You had better have my tongue cut out. Right now, before you let me leave this room. Because I will have nothing to do with this wicked scheme. And I will not keep quiet. No!" "Barba, Barba, that's not being a good girl." "I am not a girl. I am a woman and a wife and a mother! I will never call you 'uncle' aain -- you are vile! I will not play bridge with you ever again, with or without my tongue. We are helpless... but I will give you nothing. What is this you offer? You want my husband to agree to this evil thing in exchange for a few scant years of life for me and our sons -- for as long as God lets that evilness you call your body continue to breathe. Then what? You cheat him even then. We die. Or we are left to the mercy of your nephew who is even worse than you are. Oh, I know! The bedwarmers all hate him, they weep when they are called to serve him -- and weep even harder when they come back. But I would not let Hugh make this choice even if you could promise us all a lifetime of luxury. No! I won't, I won't! You try to do it. I'll kill my babies! Then myself. Then Hugh will kill himself I know! No matter what you have done to him!" She stopped, spat as far as she could in the old man's direction, then burst into tears. Their Charity said, "Hughie, I told you to stop teasing that cat. It will scratch you." Slowly he stood up, said, "Reason with them, Joe," and left the room. J oe sighed and came over close to them. "Barbara," he said gently, "take hold of yourself. You aren't acting in Hugh's interests even if you think you are. You should advise him to take it. After all, a man Hugh's age doesn't have much to lose by it." Barbara looked at him as if she had never seen him before in her life. Then she spat again. Joe was close, she got him in the face. He jumped and raised his hand. Hugh said sharply, "Joe, if you hit her and I ever get loose, I'll break your arm." "I wasn't going to hit her," Joe said slowly. "I was just going to wipe my face. I wouldn't hit Barbara, Hugh; I admire her. I just don't think she has good sense." He took a kerchief to the smear of saliva. "I guess there is no arguing." "None, Joe. I'm sorry I spit on you." "That's all right, Barbara. You're upset... and you never treated me as a nigger, ever. Well, Hugh?" "Barbara has decided it. And she always means what she says. I can't say that I'm sorry. Staying alive here just isn't worth it, for any of us. Even if I was not to be tempered." "I hate to hear you say that, Hugh. All in all, you and I always got along pretty well. Well, if that's your last word, I might as well go tell Their Charity. Is it?" "Yes " "Yes, Joe." "Well -- Good-bye, Barbara. Good-bye, Hugh." He left. The Lord Protector came back in alone, moving with the slow caution of a man old and sick. "So that's what you've decided," he said, sitting down and gathering the shawl around him. He reached out for the mouse, still crouching on the table top; servants came in and cleared off the table. He went on, "Can't say that I'm surprised -- I've played bridge with both of you. Well, now we take up the other choice. Your lives are forfeit and I can't let you stay here, other than on those terms. So now we send you back." "Back where, Ponse?" "Why, back to your own time, of course. If you make it. Perhaps you will." He stroked the mouse. "This little fellow made it. Two weeks at least. And it didn't hurt him. Though one can only guess what two thousand years would do." The servants were back in and were piling on the table a man's watch, a Canadian dime, a pair of much worn mountain boots, a hunting knife, some badly made moccasins, a pair of levis, some ragged denim shorts with a very large waistline, a .# automatic pistol with belt, two ragged and faded shirts, one somewhat altered, a part of a paper of matches and a small notebook and pencil. Ponse looked at the collection. "Was there anything else?" He slid the loaded clip from the pistol, held it in his hand. "If not, get dressed." The invisible field let them loose. iiT don't see what there is to beIsurprised about," Ponse told them. "Hugh, you will remember that I told my scientists that I wanted to know how you got here. No miracles. I told them rather firmly. They understood I would be most unhappy -- and vexed -- if the Protectorate's scientists could not solve it when they had so many hints, so much data. So they did. Probably. IF At least they were able to move this little fellow. He arrived today, which is why I sent for you today. Now we will find out if it works backward in time as well as forwards -- and if the big apparatus works as well as the bench model. I understand it is not so much the amount of power -- no atom-kernel bombs necessary -- as the precise application of power. But we'll soon know." Hugh asked, "How will you know? We will know -- if it works. But how will you know?" "Oh, that. My scientists are really quite clever, when they have incentive. One of them will explain it." The scientists were called in, two Chosen and five servants. There was of course no introduction; Hugh found himself treated as impersonally as the little white mouse who still tried to meet his death on the floor, but was restrained. Hugh was required to take off his shirt and two servant-scientists taped a small package to Hugh's right shoulder. 'What's that?" It seemed surprisingly heavy for its size. The servants did not answer; the leading Chosen said, "You will be told. Come here. See this." "This" turned out to be Hugh's former property, a U.S. Geodetic Survey map of James County.' "Do you understand this? Or must we explain it?" "I understand it." Hugh used the equal mode. The Chosen ignored it while continuing to speak in protocol mode, falling. "Then you know that here is where you arrived." Hugh agreed, as the man's finger covered the spot where Hugh's home had once stood. The Chosen nodded thoughtfully and added, "Do you understand the meaning of these marks?" He pointed to a tiny xmark and very small figures beside it. "Certainly. We call that a 'bench mark. Exact location and altitude. It"s a reference point for all the rest of the map." "Excellent." The Chosen now pointed to a similar mark at the summit of Mount James as shown by the map. "Now, tell us, if you know -- but don't lie about it; it will not advantage you -- how much error there would be, horizontally and vertically, between these two reference points." Hugh thought about it, held up bis thumb and forefinger about an inch apart. The Chosen blinked. "It would not have been that accurate in those primitive times. We assume that you are lying. Try again. Or admit that you don't know." "And I suggest that you don't know what you are talking about. It would be at least that accurate. Probably much closer." Hugh thought of telling him that he had bossed surveying parties in the Seabees and had done much of his own surveying when he was getting started as a contractor -- and that while he did not know how accurate a government geodetic survey was, he did know that enormously more accurate methods had been used in setting those bench marks than were ever used in the ordinary (quite accurate) survey. But he decided that explanation would be wasted. T he Chosen looked at him, then glanced at Their Charity. The old man had been listening but his face showed nothing. "Very well. We will assume that the marks are accurate, each to the other. Which is fortunate, as this one is missing -- " he pointed to the first one, near where Hugh's home had been -- "whereas this one -- " he indicated the summit of Mount James -- "is still in place, in solid rock. Now search your memory and do not lie again, as it will matter to you... and it will matter to Their Charity and to us, as a silly lie on your part could waste much effort and Their Charity would be much displeased, we are certain. Where, quite near this reference mark and the same height -- certainly no higher! -- is -- was, I mean, in those primitive times -- a flat, level place?" Hugh thought about it. He knew exactly where that bench mark had been : in the cornerstone of the Southport Savings Bank. It was, or had been, a small brass plate, let into the stone beside the larger dedication plate, about eighteen inches above the sidewalk at the northeast corner of the bank building. It had been placed there shortly after the Southport shopping center had been built. Hugh had often glanced at it in passing; it had always given him a warm feeling of stability to note a bench mark. The bank had sided on a parking lot shared by the bank, a Safeway Supermarket, and a couple of other shops. "It is level and flat off this way for a distance of -- "(Hugh estimated the width of that ancient parking lot in feet, placed the figure in modern units.) "Or a little farther. That's just an estimate, not wholly accurate." "But it is flat and level? And no higher than this point?" "A little lower and sloping away. For drainage." "Very well. Now place your attention on this configuration." Again it was Hugh's property, a Conoco map of the state. "That object fastened to your back you may think of as a clock. We will not explain it, you could not understand. Suffice it to say that radiation decay of a metal inside it measures time. That is why it is heavy; it is cased in lead to protect it. You will take it to here," The Chosen pointed to a town on the map; Hugh noted that it was the home of the state university. At a gesture the Chosen was handed a slip of paper. To Hugh he said, "Can you read this? Do you know what it means? Or must it be explained?" "It says 'University State Bank,' " Hugh told him. "I seem to recall that there was an institution of that name in that town. I'm not sure, I don't recall doing any business with it." "There was," the Chosen assured him, "and its ruins were recently uncovered. You will go to it. There was, and still is, a strong room, a vault, in its lowest part. You will place this clock in that vault. Do you understand?" IF "I understand," Hugh said. "By Their Charity's wish, that vault has not yet been opened. After you have gone, it will be opened. The clock will be found and we will read it. Do you understand why this is crucial to the experiment? It will not only tell us that you made the time jump safely but also exactly how long the span was -- and from this our instruments will be calibrated." The Chosen looked very fierce. "Do this exactly. Or you will be severely punished." P onse caught Hugh's eye at this point. The old man was not laughing but his eyes twinkled. "Do it, Hugh," he said quietly "That's a good fellow." Hugh said to the Chosen scientist. "I will do it. I understand." The Chosen said, "May it please Their Charity, this one is ready to weight them now, and then leave for the site." "We've changed our mind," Ponse announced. "We will see this." He added, "Nerve in good shape, Hugh?" "Quite." "All of you who made the first jump were given this opportunity, did I tell you? Joe turned it down flatly." The old man glanced over his shoulder. "Grace! Changed your mind, little one?" Grace looked up "Ponsie!" she said reproachfully. "You know I would never leave you." "Duke?" The tempered servant did not even look up. He simply shook his head. Ponse said to the scientist, "Let's hurry and get them weighed. Wc intend to sleep at home tonight." The weighing was done elsewhere in the Palace. Just before the four were placed on the weighing area the Lord Protector held up the cartridge clip he had removed from the pistol Hugh now wore. "Hugh? Will you undertake not to be foplish with this? Or should I have the pellets separated from the explosives?" "Uh, I'll behave." "Ah, but how will you behave? If you were impetuous, you might well what would happen to Barba and our little brats." (I had thought of that, you old scoundrel. I'll still do exactly what seems best to me.) "Ponse, why don't you let Barbara carry the clip in a pocket? That would keep me from loading and firing very fast even if I did get ideas." "A good plan. Here, Barba." The boss scientist seemed unhappy at the total weight of his experimental package. "May it please Their Charity, this one finds that the body weights of both adults must have lessened markedly since the time of the figures on which the calculations were made." "And what do you expect of us?" "Oh, nothing, nothing, may it please Their Charity. Just a slight delay. The mass must be exact." Hurriedly the Chosen started piling small metal discs on the platform. I t gave Hugh an idea. "Ponse, you really expect this to work?" "If I knew the answer to that, it would not be necessary to try it. I hope it will work." "If it does work, we'll need money right away. Especially if I'm to travel half across the state to bury this clock devise." "Reasonable. You used gold, did you not? Or was it silver? I see your idea." The old man gestured "Stop that weighing." "We used both, sometimes, but it had to have our own protectorate's stamp. Ponse, there were quite a number of American silver dollars in my house when you took it away from me. Are they available?" They were available and in the Palace and the old man had no objection to using them to make up the missing weight. The boss scientist was fretted over the delay -- he explained to his lord that the adjustments were set for an exact time span as well as exact mass in order to place these specimens at a time before the East-West War had started, plus a margin for error -- but that any delay was reducing the margin and might require recalculation and long and painful recalibration. Hugh did not follow the technicalities. Nor did Ponse. He cut the scientist off abruptly. "Then recalculate if necessary. All." It took more than an hour to locate the man who knew where these particular items of the savage artifacts were filed, then dig them out and fetch them. Ponse sat brooding and playing with his mouse. Barbara nursed the twins, then changed them with the help of slut servants; Hugh petitioned plumbing calls for each of them -- granted, under guard -- and all this changed all the body weights and everything was started over again. The silver dollars were still in, or had been replaced in, the # rolls in which Hugh had hoarded them. They made quite a stack, and (on the happy assumption that the time jump would work) Hugh was pleased that he had lost while imprisoned the considerable paunch he had regrown during his easy days as "Chief Researcher." However, less than three hundred silver dollars were used in bringing them up to calculated weight -- plus a metal slug and some snips of foil. "If it suits the Lord Protector, this one believes that the specimens should now be placed in the container without delay." IF "Then do it! Don't waste our time." The container was floated in. It was a box, metallic, plain, empty, and with no furnishings of any sort, barely high enough for Hugh to stand upright in, barely large enough for all of them. Hugh got into it, helped Barbara in, the babies were handed to them and Hughie started to squawl and set off his brother. Ponse looked annoyed. "My sluts have been spoiling those brats. Hugh, I've decided not to watch it. I'm weary. Good-bye to both of you -- and good riddance; neither of you would ever have made a loyal servant. But I'll miss our bridge games. Barba, you must bring those brats back into line. But don't break their spunk doing it; They're fine boys." He turned and left abruptly. T he hatch was closed down on them and fastened; they were alone. Hugh at once took advantage of it to kiss his wife, somewhat hampered by each of them holding a baby. "I don't care what happens now," Barbara said as soon as her mouth was free. "That's what I've been longing for. Oh, dear, Joey is wet again. How about Hughie?" "It's unanimous. Hughie also. But I thought you said you didn't care what happens now?" "Well, I don't, really. But try explaining that to a baby. I would gladly swap one of these rolls of dollars for ten new diapers." "My dear, do you realize that the years with no diapers at all? Whereas we may not last another hour. So let's not spend it talking about diapers." I simply meant -- Wups! They're moving us." "Sit flat on the floor and brace your feet against the wall. Before we have scrambled babies. You were saying?" "I simply meant, my darling, that I do not care about diapers, I don't care about anything -- now that I have you back with me again. But if we aren't going to die -- if this thing works -- I'm going to have to be practical. And do you know of anything more practical than diapers?" "Yes. Kissing. Making love." "Well, yes. But they lead to diapers. Darling, could you hold Hughie in your other arm and put this one around me? Uh, they're moving us again. Hugh, is this going to work? Or are we going to be very suddenly dead? Somehow I can imagine time travel frontwards -- and anyhow we did it. But I can't imagine it backwards. I mean, the past has already happened. That's it. Isn't it?" "Well, yes. But you haven't stated it correctly. The way J see it, there are no paradoxes in time travel, there can't be. If we are going to make this time jump, then we already did; that's what happened. And if it doesn't work, then it's because it didn't happen." "But it hasn't happened yet. Therefore, you are saying that it didn't happen, so it can't happen. That's what I said." "No, no! We don't know whether i has already happened or not. If ii did, it will. If it didn't, it won't." "Darling, you're confusing me." "Don't worry about it. The moving finger writes, and having writ, moves on' -- and only then do you ind out if it goosed you in passing. I think we've straightened out on a fourse; we're steady now, just the Saintest vibration. And if they are taking us where I think they are, lames County I mean, then we've got at least an hour before we need worry about anything." He tightenid his arm around ler. "So let's be Sappy that hour." She snuggled in. "That's what I was saying. Beloved, we've come through so many narrow squeaks together that I'm not ever going to worry again. If it's an hour. I'll be Sappy every second of it. If it's forty years. I'll be happy every second of that, too. If it's together. And if it's not together, I don't want k. But either way, we go on. To the fnd of our day." "Yes. To the end of our day."' S he sighed happily, rearranged a wet and sleeping infant, snuggled into his shoulder and murmured, "This feels like our very first day. In the tank room of the shelter I mean. We were just as crowded and even warmer -- and I was never so happy. And we didn't know whether we were going to live through that day, either. That night." "We didn't expect to. Else we wouldn't have twin boys now." "So I"m glad we thought we were going to die. Hugh? It actually isn't any more crowded than it was that night in the tank room." "Woman, you are an insatiabl# lecher. You'll shock the boys." "I don't think once in more than a year is being insatiable. And the boys are too young to be shocked. Aw, come on! You said yourself wo might be dead in an hour." "Yes, we might and you have a point and I'm theoretically in favor of the idea. But the boys do inhibit me and there actually isn't quite as much room even it we weren't cluttered up with eight or nine wet babies and I don't see how it's mechanically possible. The act would be a tesseract, at least." "Well -- I guess you're right. But it does seem a shame, if we're going to die." "I refuse to assume that we're going to die. I won't ever make that assumption again. All my figuring is based on the assumption that wc are going to live. We go on. No matter what happens -- we go on." "All right. Seven no trump." "That's better." "Doubled and redoubled. Hugh? Just as soon as the boys are big enough to hold thirteen cards in their pudgy little hands, we're going to start teaching them contract Then we'll have a family four of our own." "Suits. And if they can't learn to play, we'll temper them and try again." "I don't want ever to hear that word again!" "Sorry." "And I don't want to hear that IF language again, either, dear. The boys should grow up hearing Engfish." "Sorry again. You're right. But I may slip; I've gotten in the habit of thinking in it -- all that translating. So allow me a few slips." "I'll always allow you a few slips. Speaking of slips -- Did you? With Kitten?" "No." "Why not? I wouldn't have minded. Well, not much anyhow. She was sweet. She would baby-sit for me any time I would let her. She loved our boys." "Barbara, I don't want to think about Kitten. It makes me sad. I just hope whoever has her now is good to her. She didn't have any defenses at all -- like a kitten before it has its eyes open. Helpless. Kitten means to me everything that is utterly damnable about slavery." She squeezed his hand. "I hope they're good to her, too. But, dear, don't hurt yourself inside about it; there is nothing we can do for her." "I know it and that's why I don't want to talk about her. But I do miss her. As a daughter. She was a daughter to me. 'Bedwarmer' never entered into it. "Hey, I think we're there." The box was moved several times, then remained stationary a few minutes, then surged straight up with sickening suddenness, stopped with another stomach twister, seemed to hunt a little, and then was perfectly steady. "You in the experimental chamber," a voice said out of nowhere. You are wai;ned to expect a short fall. You are advised to stand up, each of you hold one brat, and be ready to fall. Do you understand?" "Yes," Hugh an:wered while helping Barbara to her feet. "How much of a fall?" There was no answer. Hugh said, "Hon, I don't know what they mean. A 'short fair could be one foot, or fifty. Protect Joey with your arms and better bend your knees a little. If it's quite a fall, then go ahead and go down; don't try to take it stiff legged. These jokers don't give a hoot what happens to us." "Bent knees. Protect Joey. All right." They fell. xxn H ugh never did know how far they fell but he decided later that it could not have been more than four feet. One instant they were standing in a well-lighted, cramped box; the next instant they were outdoors, in the dark of night, and falling. His boots hit, he went down, landing on the rit side of his rump and on two very hard rolls of silver dollars in his hip pocket -- rolled with the fall and protected the baby in his arms. Then he rolled to a sitting position. Barbara was near him, on her side. She was not moving. "Barbara! Are you hurt?" "No," she said breathlessly. "I don't think so. Just knocked the breath out of me." "Is Joey all right? Hughie is, but  think he's more than wet now." "Joey is all right." Joey confirmed this by starting to yell; his brother joined him. "He had the breath knocked out him, too, I think. Shut up, Joey; Mother is busy. Hugh, where are we?" He looked around. "We are," he announced, "in a parking lot in a shopping center about four blocks from where I live. And apparently somewhere close to our own proper time. At least that's a 'sixty-one Ford we almost landed on." The parking lot was empty save for this one car. It occurred to him that their arrival might have been something else than a bump -- an explosion, perhaps? -- if they had been six feet to the right. But he dropped the thought. Enough narrow squeaks and one more didn't matter. He stood up and helped Barbara up. She winced and in the dim light that came from inside the bank he noticed it. "Trouble?" "I turned my ankle when I hit." "Can you walk?" "I can walk." "I'll carry both kids. It's not far." "Hugh, where are we going?" "Why, home, of course." He looked in the window of the bank, tried to spot a calendar. He saw one but the standing light was not shining on it; he couldn't read it. "I wish I knew the date. Honey, I hate to admit it but it does look as if time travel has some paradoxes -- and I think we are about to give somebody a terrible shock." "Who?" Barbara asked. "Me, maybe. In my earlier incarnation. Maybe I ought to phone him first, not shock him. No, he -- I, I mean -- wouldn't believe it. Sure you can walk?" "Certainly." "All right. Hold our monstew for a moment and let me set my watch." He glanced back into the bank where a clock was visible even though the calendar was shadowed. "Okay. Gimme. And holler if you need to stop." They set off, Barbara limping but keeping up. He discouraged talk because he did not have his thoughts in order. To see a town that he had thought of as destroyed so quiet and peaceful on a warm summery night shook him more than he dared admit. He carefully avoided any speculation as to what he might find at his home -- except one fleeting thought that if it turned out that his shelter was not yet built, then it never would be and he would try his hand at changing history. He adjourned that thought, too, and concentrated on being glad that Barbara was a woman who never chattered when her man wanted her to be quiet. P resently they turned into his driveway, Barbara still limping and Hugh beginning to develop cramps in both arms from being unable to shift his double load. There were two cars parked tandem and facing out in the drive; he stopped at the first one, opened the door and said, "Slide in, sit down, and take the load off that ankle. I'll IF leave the boys with you and reconnoiter." The house was brightly lighted. "Hugh! Don't do it!" "Why not?" "This is my car. This is the night r He stared at her for a long moment. Then he said quietly, "Tm still going to reconnoiter. You sit here." He was back in less than two minutes, jerked open the car door, collapsed onto the seat, let out a sob. Barbara said, "Darling! Darling!" "Oh, my God!" He choked and caught his breath. 'Site's in there! Grace. And so am ." He gasped again. "'All of us are there. I heard Karen laugh!" He dropped his face to the steering wheel and sobbed. "Hugh." "What? Oh, my Godr "Stop it, Hugh. I started the engine while you were gone. The keys were in the ignition, I had left them there so that Duke could move it and get out. So let's go. Can you drive?" He sobered down. "I can drive." He took ten seconds to check the instrument board, adjusted the seat backward, put it in gear, turned right out of the drive. Four minutes later he turned west on the highway into the mountains being careful to observe the stop sign; it had occurred to him that this was no night to get stopped and pulled off the road for driving without a license. As he made the turn a clock in the distance banged the half hour. He glanced at his wrist watch, noted a one-minute difference. "Switch on the radio, hon." "Hugh, I'm sorry. The durn thing quit and I couldn't afford to have it repaired." "Oh. No matter. The news doesn't matter, I mean; time is all that matters. I'm trying to estimate how far we can go in an hour. An hour and some minutes. Do you recall what time the first missile hit us?" "I think you told me it was elevenforty-seven." "Thats my recollection, too. I'm certain of it, I just wanted it confirmed. But it all checks. You made crepes Suzettes, you and Karen fetched them in just in time to catch the end of the ten o'clock news. I ate pretty quickly -- they were wonderful -- and this looney old character rang the doorbell. Me, I mean. And I answered it. Call it ten-twenty or a little after. So we just heard half-past chime and my watch agrees. We've got about seventyfive minutes to get as far from ground zero as possible. Barbara made no comment. Moments later they passed the city limits; Hugh put the speed up from a careful forty-five to an exact sixtyfive. A bout ten minutes later she said "Dear? I'm sorry. About Karen I mean. Not about anything else." "I'm not sorry about anything. No, not about Karen. Hearing her merry laugh again shook me up, yes. But now I treasure it. Barbara, for the first time in my life I have a conviction of immortality. Karen is alive right now, back there behind us -- and yet we saw her die. So somehow, in some timeless sense. Karen is alive forever, somewhere. Don't ask me to explain it, but that's how it is." "I've always known it, Hugh. But I didn't dare say so." "Dare say anything, damn it! I told you that long ago. So I no longer feel sorrow over Karen. I can't feel any honest sorrow over Grace. Some people make a career of trying to get their own way, and succeeding; she's one of them. As for Duke, I hate to think about him. I had great hopes for my son. My first son. But I never had control over his rearing and I certainly had no control over what became of him. And, as Joe pointed out to me, Duke's not too badly off -- if welfare and security and happiness are sufficient criteria." Hugh shrugged without taking his hands from the wheel. "So I shall forget him. As of this instant I shall endeavor never to think about Duke again." Presently he spoke again. "Hon, can you, in spite of being smothered in babies, get at that clock thing on my shoulder and get it off?" "I'm sure I can.' "Then do it and chuck it into the ditch. I'd rather throw it away inside the circle of total destruction if we're still in it." He scowled. "I don't want those people ever to have time travel. Especially Ponse." She worked silently for some moments, awkwardly with one hand. She got the radiation clock loose and threw it out into the darkness before she spoke. "Hugh, I don't think Ponse intended us to accept that offer. I think he made the terms such that he knew that I would refuse, even if you were inclined to sacrifice yourself." "Of course! He picked us as guinea pigs and chivvied us into 'volunteering.' Barbara, I can stand -- and somewhat understand but not forgive -- a straight-out skunk. But Ponse was much worse, for my money. He had good intentions. He could always prove why the hotfoot he was giving you was for your own good. I despise him." Barbara said stubbornly, "Hugh, how many white men of today could be trusted with the power Ponse had and use it with as much gentleness as he did use it?" "Huh? None. Not even yours truly. And that was a low blow about 'white men.' Color doesn't enter into it." "I withdraw the word 'white. And I'm sure that you are one who could be trusted with it. But I don't know any others." #XJot even me. Nobody can be trusted with it. The one time I had it I handled it as badly as Ponse. I mean that time I caused a gun to be raised at Duke. I should simply have used karate if he really got in my way, and knocked him out, not humiliated him. Nobody, Barbara. But Ponse was especially bad. Take Memtok. I'm really sorry that I happened to kill Memtok. He was a man who behaved better than his nature, not worse. Memtok had a streak of meanness, sadism, wide as his back. But he held it closely in check so that he could do his job better. But Ponse -- Barbie hon, this is probably a subject on which you IF and I will never agree. You feel a bit soft toward him because he was sweet to you part of the time and always sweet to our boys. But I despised him because of that -- because he was always showing 'king's mercy -- being less cruel than he could of been, but always reminding his victim of how cruel he could be if he were not such a sweet old guy and such a prince of a fellow. I despised him for it. I despised him long before I found out about his having young girls butchered and served for his dinner." "What?" "Didn't you know? Oh, surely, you must have known. Ponse and I discussed it in our very last talk. Weren't you listening?" "I thought that was just heavy sarcasm, on the part of each of you." "Nope, Ponse is a cannibal. Maybe not a cannibal, since he doesn't consider us human. But he does eat us -- they all do. Ponse always ate girls. About one a day for his family table, I gathered. Girls about the age and plumpness of Kitten." "But -- But -- Hugh.  ate the same thing he did, lots of times. I must have -- I must have -- " "Sure you did. So did I. But not after I knew. Nor did you," "Honey... you better stop the car. I'm going to be sick." "Throw up on the twins if you must. This car doesn't stop for anything." She managed to get the window open, got her head outside. Presently he said gently. "Feeling better?" "Some." "Sweetheart, don't hold what he ate too much against Ponse. He honestly did not know it was wrong -- and no doubt cows would feel the same way about us, if they knew. But these other things he knew were wrong. Because he tried to justify them. He rationalized slavery, he rationalized tyranny, he rationalized cruelty, and always wanted the victim to agree and thank him. The headsman expected to be tipped." "I don't want to talk about him, dear. I feel all mixed up inside." "Sorry. I'm half drunk without a drop and babbling. I'll shut up. Watch the traffic behind. I'm going to make a left turn shortly." She did so and after they had turned off on a state road, narrower, and not as well graded, he said, "I've figured out where we're going. At first I was just putting distance behind us. Now we've got a destination. Maybe a safe one." "Where, Hugh?" "A shutdown mine. I had a piece of it, lost some money in it. Now maybe it pays off. The Havely Lode. Nice big tunnels and we can reach the access road from this road. If I can find it in the dark. If we can get there before the trouble starts." He concentrated on herding the car, changing down on the grades both climbing and on the occasional downhill piece, braking hard before going into a curve, then cornering hard with plenty of throttle in the curves. A fter a particularly vicious turn with Barbara on the hair-raising outside, she said, "Look, dear. #i I know you're doing it to save us. But we can be just as dead from a car crash as from an H-bomb." He grinned without slowing. "I used to drive jeeps in the dark with no headlights. Barbie, I won't kill us. Few people realize how much a car will do and I'm delighted that this has a manual gear shift. You need it in the mountains. I would not dare this way with an automatic shift." She shut up and prayed, silently. The road dropped into a high alp where it met another road; at the intersection there was a light. When he saw it Hugh said, "Read my watch." "Eleven twenty-five." "Good. We are slightly over fifty miles from ground zero. From my house, I mean. And the Havely Lode is only five minutes beyond here, I know how to find it now. I see Schmidt's Corner is open and we are low on gas. We'll grab some and groceries, too -- yes, I recall you told me you had both in this car; we'll get more -- and still make it before the curtain." He braked and scattered gravel, stopped by a pump, jumped out. "Run inside and start grabbing stuff. Put the twins on the floor of the car and close the door. Won't hurt 'em." He stuck the hose into the car's tank, started cranking. She was out in a moment. "There's nobody here." "Honk the horn. The Dutchman is probably back at his house." Barbara honked and honked and the babies cried. Hugh hung up the hose. "Fourteen gallons we owe him for. Let's go in. Should roll in just ten minutes, to be safe." Schmidt's Corner was a gasoline station, a small lunch counter and a one-story grocery store, all of the sort that cater to local people, fishermen, hunters and the tourist who likes to get off the pavement. Hugh wasted no time trying to rouse out the owner. The place told its own story: All lights were on, the screen door stood open, coffee was simmering on a hot plate, a chair had been knocked over, and the radio was tuned to Conelrad. It suddenly spoke up as he came in: Bomb warning. Third bomb warning. This is not a drill. Take shelter at once. Any shelter , God damn it, you're going to be atombombed in the next few minutes. Vm damn well going to leave this goddamn microphone and dive for the basement myself when impact is five minutes away! So get the lead out, you stupid fools, and quit listening "Grab those empty cartons and dump stuff in. I'll trot them out. We'll fill the back seat and floor." Hugh started following his own orders, had one carton filled before Barbara did. He rushed it out, rushed back! Barbafa had another waiting, and a third almost filled. "Hugh. Stop one second. Look.' The end carton was not exactly empty. Mama cat, quite used to strangers, stared solemnly out at him while four assorted fuzzy ones nursed. Hugh returned her stare. He suddenly closed the top of the carton over her. "All right," he said. "Load something light into another carton so it weighs this one down while I drive. Hurry." He rushed out to the car with the little family while the mother cat set up an agonized complaint. Barbara followed quickly with a half-loaded carton, put it on top of the cat box. They both rushed back inside. "Take all the canned milk he's got." Hugh stopped long enough to put a roll of dollars on top of the cash register. "And grab all the toilet paper or Kleenex you see, too. Three minutes till we leave." T hey left in five minutes but with more cartons; the back seat of the car was well leveled off. "I got a dozen tea towels," Barbara said gleefully, "and six big packs of Chux." "Huh?" "Diapers, dear, diapers. Might last us past the fallout. I hope. And I grabbed two packs of playing cards, too. Maybe I shouldn't have." "Don't be hypocritical, my love. Hang onto the kids and be sure that door is locked. Now it gets rough." He drove for several hundred yards, with his head hanging out. "Herel" The going got very rough. Hugh drove in low gear and very carefully. A black hole in the side of the mountain loomed up suddenly as he turned. "Good, we've made it! And we drive straight inside." He started in and tromped on the brake. "Good Lord! A cow." "And a calf," Barbara added, leaning out her side. "I'll have to back out." "Hugh. A cow. With a calf." "Uh... how the hell would we feed her?" "Hugh, it may not burn here at all. And that's a real live cow." "Uh... all right, all right. We'll eat them if we have to." There was a wooden wall and a stout door about thirty feet inside the mouth of the mine tunnel. Hugh eased the car forward, forcing the reluctant cow ahead of him, and at last crunched his side of the car against the rock wall to allow the other door to open. The cow immediately made a break for freedom; Barbara opened her door and thereby stopped her. The calf bawled, the twins echoed him. Hugh squeezed out past Barbara and the babies, got past the cow and unfastened the door, which was secured by a padlock passed through a hasp but not closed. He shoved the cow's rump aside and braced the door open. "Kick on the 'up' lights. Let it shine in." Barbara did, then insisted that cow and calf be brought inside. Hugh muttered something about, "Noah's bloody ark!" but agreed, largely because the cow was so very much in the way. The door, though wide, was about one inch narrower than bossie; she did not want to go through it. But Hugh got her headed that way, then kicked her emphatically. She went through. The calf followed his mother. At which point Hugh discovered why the cow was in the tunnel. Someone -- presumably someone nearby -- bad converted mine into use as a cow barn; there were a dozen or so bales of hay inside. The cow showed no wish to leave once she was at this treasure. Cartons were carried in, two cartons were dumped and a twin placed in each, with a carton of cat and kittens just beyond and all three weighed down to insure temporary captivity. While they were unloading Barbara's survival gear from the trunk, everything became noonday bright. Barbara said, "Oh, heavens! We aren't through' "We go on unloading. Maybe ten minutes till the sound wave. I don't know about the shock wave. Here, take the rifle." They had the car empty with jeep cans of water and gasoline out but not yet inside when the ground began to tremble and noise of giant subways started. Hugh put the cans inside, yelled, "Move these!" "Hugh! Come in!" "Soon." There was loose hay he had driven over just back of the car. He gathered it up, stuffed it through the door, went back and scavenged, not to save the hay but to reduce fire hazard to gasoline in the cars tank. He considered backing the car out and letting it plunge down the hill. He decided not to risk it. If it got hot enough to set fire to the car's gas tank -- well, there were side tunnels, deep inside. "Barbara! Do you have a light yet?" "Yes! Please come inside. Please!" He went in, barred the door. "Now we move these bales of hay, far back. You carry the light, I carry the hay. And mind your feet. IF It is wet a bit farther back. That's why we shut down." T ey moved groceries, livestock (human, bovine, and feline) and gear into a side tunnel a hundred yards inside the mountain. They had to wade through several inches of water on the way but the side tunnel was slightly higher and dry. Once Barbara lost a moccasin. "Sorry," said Hugh. "This mountain is a sponge. Almost every bore struck water." "I," said Barbara, "am a woman who appreciates water. Hugh did not answer as the flash "What did you mean?" "Hugh, I didn't tell you at the time. I was too upset by it and didn't want you to get upset. But I don't own a manual gear shift car." "Huh? Then whose car is that?" "Mine. I mean my keys were in it -- and it certainly had my stuff in the trunk. But mine's automatic." "Honey," he said slowly, "I think you've flipped your lid a little." "I thought you would . think so and that's why I didn't say anything until we were safe. But Hugh -- listen to me, dear! -- I have never owned a manual shift car. I didn't learn to drive that far back. I don't of the second bomb suddenly brightened everything even that deep inside -- just through the cracks of a wooden wall. He looked at his watch. "Right on time, I think. We're sitting through a second show of the same movie, Barb. But this time I hope it will be cooler." "I wonder." "If it will be cooler? Sure it will. Even if it burns outside. I think I know a place where we can go down, and save us, and maybe the cats but not the cow and calf, even if smoke gets pulled in." "Hugh, I didn't mean that." know how to drive manual shift." He stared thoughtfully. "I don't understand it." "Neither do I. Darling, when you came away from your house, you said, Shes in there. Grace.' Did you mean you saw her?" "Why, yes. She was nodding over the television, half passed out." "But, dearest, Grace had been nodding over the television. But you put her to bed while I was making crepes Suzettes. Don't you remember? When the alert came, you went and got her and carried her down -- in her nightgown." H ugh Farnham stood quite still for several moments. "So I did," he agreed. "So I had. Well, let's get the rest of this gear moved. The big one will be along in about an hour and a half." "But will it be?" "What do you mean?" "Hugh, I don't know what has happened. Maybe this is a different worid. Or maybe it's the same one but just a tiny bit changed by -- well, by us coming back, perhaps." The big one came on time. It shook them up, did not hurt them. When the air wave hit, it blew in the wall and shook them up again. Hugh noted the time, then said thoughtfully. 'Tf it is a different world, it is not very. Yet -- " "Yet what, dear?" "Well, it is some different. You wouldn't forget that about your own car. And I do remember putting Grace to bed early; Duke and I had a talk afterwards. So, it's different." Suddenly he grinned. "It could be importantly different. If the future can change the past, or whatever, maybe the past can change the future, too. Maybe the United States won't be wholly destroyed. Maybe neither side will be so suicidal as to use plague bombs. Maybe -- Hell, maybe Ponse will never get a chance to have teen-age girls for dinner!" He added, "I'm damn' well going to make a try to see that he doesn't #" T hey lived through the missiles, they lived through the bombs, they lived through the fires, they Kved through the epidemics -- which were not extreme and may not have been weapons; both sides disclaimed them -- and they lived through the long period of disorders while civil government writhed like a snake with a broken back. They lived. They went on. Their sign reads -- American Vodka Corn Liquor Applejack Pure Spring Water Grade "A' Milk Corned Beef  Potatoes Steak  Fried Potatoes Butter  some days Bread Smoked Bear Meat Jerked Quisling (by the neck) Crepes Suzettes to Order Blaoksmithing, Machine Shop, Sheet Metal Work -- You Supply the Metal Lessons by Arrangement Social Evening Every Wednesday Ring Bell, Wait. Advance with your Hands Up. Stay on path, avoid mines. We lost three customers last week. We Hugh and Barbara Farnham  Family Freeholders H igh above their sign their homemade starry flag is flying -- and they are still going on. IF the button -- you can't make mistakes! Nothing to focus! Nothing to set or adjust! No double exposures! You get crisp, sharp black, . , , and-whites, amazingly life-like color shots -- even slides -- with no Imagine! Here s what you get... effort at all! Commander Camera Retail Value: # I Roll Kodacolor Film Retail Value: # I Roll Kodak Black-and-White Film Retail Value: .# Pre paid Processing Certificate Retail Value; # (Good for # Jumbo Color Prints and I new fresh roll of Kodacolor Film!) #l# limited! Clip coupon and mail today! P.O. Box #, N.Y., N.Y. # extra charge). Total retail value: #. I pay only # plus # handling. (please print)  Send C.O.D. I am enclosins # deposit and will pay postman #, plus ZSc handling, plus postal charges.  I want to save postal charges. I am enclosing #, plus # for handling. not completely pleased! Forgotten road to success in writing By J. D. Ratcliff I can't imagine why more beginners don't take the short road to publication -- by writing magazine and newspaper articles. I've made a good living for # years writing articles, and I've enjoyed every minute of it. I've interviewed Nobel Prize winners and heads of state. I've covered stories from Basel to Bangkok to Buffalo. It's a great life. No commuter trains to catch, no office routine. Whether I'm at home or abroad on assignment, I write from eight to noon every day -- no more, no less. My afternoons are my own. The market for articles is vast and hungry. Over # were sold last year to magazines alone. Editors want pieces on almost any subject that comes natural to you -- but they demand that your writing be sound and professional. To teach professional writing techniques to serious beginners, I joined with Rod Serling, Faith Baldwin, Bennett Cerf, and eight other leading authors to start the Famous Writers School. We poured everything we know about successful writing into a new kind of course which trains you at horne, in spare time. You begin with the fundamentals of all good writing. Then, you specialize in articles and other non-fiction. (Or in Fiction, Advertising of Business Writing.) You learn to write by writing. Our instructors, themselves all published authors, work with you by mail much as editors do with established writers. Our School is young. Yet students, many still in training, have broken into print in more than # publications. Several sold pieces they wrote as School assignments. Writing Aptitude Test offered To find out if you too can be a published writer, send for the School's revealing Aptitude Test. If you test well -- or offer other evidence of writing ability -- you may enroll. However, there is no obligation to do so. "Jack" Ratcliff is one of America's highest paid free-lance writers. Although he works only four hours a day, he has had hundreds of articles published in top magazines, including over # in Reader's Digest alone. Famous Writers School Dept. #, Westport, Connecticut I want to know if I have writing aptitivde. Please mail me, without obligation, your Aptitude Test and #-page brochure. Mr. Mrs Age, Miss (please print) Street City Zone..., County State... , The School is accredited by the Accrediting Commission of the National Home Study Council, Washington, D.C. FATHER OF THE STARS  Interstellar Novelette by FREDERIK POHL  I I J fiction Beginning This IssueCreatures Who Lived on Men! November I # #c All Issue Jl World of brings you the finest in science fiction Don't delay -- send in your subscription order today of IF delivered to your door, bringing you stories by all your favorites in science fiction! His great new novel, Farnham's Freehold, takes you into a time where humanity has done its best to destroy itself -- and the survivors have built themselves a strange new life! The Siikie -- the story of a man whose heritage and training transcend humanity -- a creature whose one mission is to protect the human race, though he is no longer a part of it! And coming soon -- Fourth and greatest of the immortal "Skylark" stories, his memorable serials! Send in your order today and we will send you the next newsstand price. But act now! Use this order blank or order by letter -- but don't delay! r i i i i IF -- Subscription Department #I Hudson Street, NewYork, N. Y. # Yes, send me the next # issues of !F! I enclose #.  New  Renewal Name  Address  City State Zip No  (Outside of N. and S. America add # for postage) science novembeb, m L. #, NO, # Frederik Pohl, Editor Sol Cohen, Publisher Diane Sullivan, Associate Editor David Perfon, Production Manager Nvsmws... #...# ?F published monthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, Robert M. Guinn, President, Vo!. #, No. #, Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York #, New York. #c per copy. Subscriptions # issues # in the United States, Canada, Mexico, South America and Central America and U.S. possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All rights including translations reserved. Ali material submitted must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelope. The any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in the U. S. A. by the Guinn Comsany, New York #, N #  JF  Editorial Seconds on Firsts C ' I ary Wright's The Ultimate J Racer, which starts on page # ol this issue, is the first case of a "first" turning up with a second story in print in our magazines... Put mostly because of the accidents of timing. We have a notion you'll be hearing a lot from a good many of them. As most regular readers know, in each issue we bring you a story by someone who has never appeared in a professional science-fiction magazine before (usually they haven't appeared anywhere at all, professional or otherwise). This issue's, for example, is Simon Tully's The Perfect People -- and we think you will agree that the author, an Australian anthropologist now resident in London, is the right person to tell us what "perfection" may mean. Gary Wright gave us a fine, adventurous novelette called Captain oj the Kali in January #. Readers liked it and asked for more -- and, at last, we've been able to deliver. Jonathan Brand, whose Long Day in Court was one of the most popular of our firsts, has a story called Vanishing Point in our inventory and coming up soon. Bruce McAllister, who was fourteen years old when he sold us his "first" and thus became the youngest of our contributors, has just produced another which we expect to bring you in short order. Larry Niven, whose first hasn't even appeared yet -- it's called The Coldest Place, and will turn up next month -- has already sold us a second which will be appearing shortly in Galaxy, called Wrong-Way Street. And another "first" who will shortly be coming up in Galaxy is Joseph Green, our first "first" of all, who inaugurated the idea three years ago and has since carved out an audience for himself with a number of short stories and a forthcoming Ballantine book. T he whole "first" idea started at the Seattle Science Fiction Convention of #, when the convention committee auctioned off the time of a number of guests, including your editor. (The price we fetched for # minutes was fifteen dollars. Shows what inflation will do.) The high bidder was Joe Green, who used the time to find out all he could about what it took to sell science-fiction stories... and, as you see, got his money's worth at that. To our way of thinking, the "first" series has been about the most satisfactory venture we've engaged in with If. There are others in which we take pride -- bringing back writers like Van Vogt and Doc Smith, developing the Relief series, etc. -- but this is the one that we think is going to have the greatest longrange effect. These new writers -- they're the Doc Smiths and Van Vogts of tomorrow. We're proud to say that they've got their start in If -- Frederik Pohl be generally told -- things you ought to know. Great truths are dangerous to some -- but factors for personal power and accomplishment in the hands of those who understand them. Behind the tales of the miracles and mysteries of the ancients, lie centuries of their secret probing into nature's laws -- their amazing discoveries of the hidden processes of man's mind, and the mastery of life's problems. Once shrouded in mystery to avoid their destruction by mass fear and ignorance, these facts remain a useful heritage for the thousands of men and women who privately use them in their homes today. The Rosicrucians (not a religious organization) an age-old brotherhood of learning, have preserved this secret wisdom in their archives for centuries. They now invite you to share the practical helpfulness of their teachings. Write today for a free copy of the book, "The Mastery of Life." Within its pages may lie a new life of opportunity for you. Address: Scribe K.W.B ! Scribe K.W.B. i San Jose, California i J Please send me the free book. The Mastery J i of Life, which explains how I may learn to J i use my faculties and powers of mind. , I i J Name i i J Address ' ! City ! They came not to destroy the human race but to preserve it, protect it -- and then crop it! I t was ten minutes past high noon when I paid off my helicab, ducked under the air blast from the caged high-speed rotors as they whined back to speed, and looked around at the sun-scalded, dustwhite, mob-noisy bazaar of the fractal camp-city of Tamboula, Republic of Free Algeria. Merchants' stalls were a clash of garish fabrics, the pastels of heaped fruit, the glitter of oriental gold thread and beadwork, the glint of polished Japanese lenses and finely machined Swedish chromalloy, the subtle gham of hand rubbed wood, the brittle complexity of Hong Kong plastic -- islands in the tide of humanity that elbowed, sauntered, bargained with shrill voices and waving haDds or stood idly in patches of black shadow under rigged awnings all across the wide square. I made my way through the press, shouted at by hucksters, solicited by whiniDg beggars and tattooed drabs, jostled by UN Security Police escorting officials of a dozen nations, emerged on a badly paved street of starved royal palms across from a row of fast-decaying buildings as cosmopolitan in style as the costumes around me. Above the cacophony of the mob, keening Arab music shrilled from cavelike openings redolent of goat and curry, vying with the PAborne blare of Jump and Jitter, reflecting hectic lunch-hours behind the sweat-dewed glass fronts of the Cafe Parisien, Die Valkyrie, the Samovar and the Chicago Snackery. I crossed the street, dodging the iron-shod wheels of ox-carts, the scorching exhaust of jet-peds, the stinging dust-barrage of cushion cars, snorting one almost palpable stench from my nostrils just in time to catch a new and even riper one. Under a ten-foot glare sign lettered Arabic script, a revolving door thumped monotonously. I caught it, went through into a sudden gloom and silence. I crossed an unswept mosaic floor, went down three steps into an even darker room with a scatter of gaudy cushions and a away a yard-square red and gold menu proffered by a nicely rounded harem slave in a brief vest and transparent trousers and took a stool at the long bar. A bare-chested three hundred pound eunuch in a sash, cutlass and turban took my order, slid a frosty glass across the polished black marble. Behind a screen of gilded palm fronds, a small combo made reedy music. I took a long, thirsty draught, From the corner of my eye I saw a man slide onto the next stool. Casually I angled the ring on my left forefinger. Its specular surface reflected a narrow, tanned face with a bald forehead, peaked white eyebrows, a Kaiser Wilhelm mustache, and a Satanic Van Dyck. A pair of frosty blue eyes met mine for an instant in the tiny mirror. "What's the get-up for, Felix?" I said softly. "You traveling in hair goods now?" H is eyelids flickered. For Felix Severance, that was equivalent to a yelp of astonishment. Then he gave me the trick wink that was service code for 'The Enemy May Be Listening'. "Well, well, John Bravais, as I live and breathe," he said in his high-pitched voice. "Fancy meeting you here!" We went through a ritual of hand pumping and when-did-I-see-youlast's, ordered second drinks, then moved over to a low table. He IF slipped a small gadget from a pocket, glanced around to see who was watching, ran it over the light fixture, the salt and pepper shakers, the ashtray, babbling on: "Martha's fine. Little Herbie had a touch of Chinese Virus, and Charlotte broke a clavicle... He went on point like a hunting dog, picked up a small tabukuk in the form of a frog-goddess, dropped it inconspicuously into his heavy briefcase. "I heard you were going into mink farming," I carried on the charade. "Decided against it, Johnny," he said, checking the spice tray. "Too damned vicious. Lousy example for little Lennie and Bertha and the others." He finished the check, switched off the patter in midsentence, pocketed the spy-eye detector. "Okay, Johnny," he said softly. "My little gem-dandy patented nosecounter says we're clean now." He was looking me over with that quick glance of his that could count the pearls on a dowager's neck while he was bowing over her wrist. "Thanks for coming." "I haven't run to fat yet, if that's what's bothering you," I said. "Now stop sizing me up and tell me what the false beard is all about. I heard you were here under an open cover as a UN medic." "I'm afraid Medecine-Major de Salle attracted some unwelcome attention." He grinned. "It seems I broached Security. I was advised to consider myself under house arrest; a six-footer with a side-arm was assigned to make the point clear. I ditched him in the first dark alley we passed and faded from the scene. A school teacher named Brown rented the de Salle villa after the disappearance -- but as Brown, I'm not free to move. That's where you enter the picture." "Come to the point, Felix. What was so important that I had to come nine thousand miles in thirteen hours to hear? Do you know where I was -- " He held up a hand. "I know; Barnett told me you'd spent seven months in Bolivia building a cover as a disgruntled veteran of Colonna's Irregulars. Sorry and all that." "Another week and I'd have landed an assignment running a shipment of bootleg surgical spares." "The frozen kidneys will have to wait for another time." He showed me a Mephistophelean smile. "What I have is far more fun." "The suspense is unnerving me. Go ahead and spill it." "All right. Let's begin with the world situation." "I'd prefer a more cheerful subject -- like cancer." "We may get to that, too, before this one's over." He hitched himself forward, getting down to business now. "For most of the last century, John, the world has been at war. We haven't called it that, of course -- nobody's actually used nuclear warheads. These are nothing but 'police action', or 'internal power realignments', like the current rumble here in Algeria: maneuvers with live ammunition. But while the powers are whetting their claws on these tupp'y-ap'ny shooting matches, they're looking hard for a weapon that would give one state a decisive advantage. In the meantime -- stalemate." "Well," I said, pushing back my chair, "that was mighty interesting, Felix. Thanks for letting me know." He leaned across the table. There was a merry glint in his eye -- like a devil planning a barbecue. "We've found that weapon, John." I settled back into my chair. "All right, I'm listening." "Very well: Super Hellbombs are out. The answer lies in the other direction, of course. A crowd of war. It's good, healthy sport -- just the ticket for working off those perfectly natural aggressions that might otherwise cause trouble. But what if a division or two of foot soldiers suddenly became irresistible? Impervious to attack, deadly on the offensive? Your cosy little brushfire war would turn into a rout for the unlucky side. And there would go your power-balance, shot all to Hell." "How much better can handweapons get? The Norge Combat Imperial weighs six pounds and fires a hundred armor-piercing rounds per second. It's radar-aimed and deadaccurate -- " "I'm talking about something new, sisted Personal Armament. What it means is -- the Invulnerable Man." I watched Felix swallow half his drink, put the glass down, and sit back with his fingertips together, waiting for my reaction. I nodded casually. to "That's an old idea," I said carelessly. "I used to follow Batman and Robin myself." "This isn't a Tri-D drama. It's a coordinated development in bioprosthetics, neurosurgery, and myoelectronics. Picture it, John! Micro tronics engineered sense boosters, wide-spectrum vision, artificially accelerated reflexes, nerve-energy lasertype weapons, all surgically implanted -- plus woven-chromalloy bodymail, aligned-crystal metal caps for fingerbones, shins, ribs, and skull, servo-boosted helical titanium fibre reinforced musculature -- " "You left out the fast-change longjobns with the big red S on them. You know, I always wondered why Clark Kent never got himself arrested in an alley for indecent exposure." "I had a hand in its development myself," Felix went on imperturbably. "And I can tell you it's big. You have no idea." "But I'd like to have," I cut in. "Especially an idea of what it is I blew a year's work to hear." He nodded. "I'm just coming to that. For the past six months I've been here in Tamboula, carrying out a study of battle wounds -- data we require in the further development disquieting fact." He poked a finger at me for emphasis. "The number of men reported 'missing in action' amounts to nearly twenty per cent of the total casualties." "There are always a few reluc tant warriors who go over the hill," I started. "Not in the desert, John. I went IF on then to take a look at civilian missing persons figures. The world mark annually; naturally, this doesn't include data from China and Red India, where one less mouth to feed is noted with relief, if at all. And the Society of American Morticians and Embalmers reports that not enough people are being buried." ttT can tell you where part of J. them are going," I said. "The black market in human organs -- " "Yes," Felix nodded. "Doubtless that nefarious trade accounts for some of the discrepancy, particularly in burial figures. But suppose, John, that someone were building up a secret force -- and outfitting it with "Yon can't hide men in those numbers," I said. "The logistical problems alone -- " "I know; but the men are going somewhere. I need to know where." "Pm afraid I'm beginning to get the picture; you want me to find them." "You still hold your reserve Army commission, I take it?" I nodded. "Good. I have your recall orders in my briefcase. They're perfectly legal; I made them myself. You're a Defense Department observer. I've arranged for you to occupy one of our rooms at the King Feisal." on a voluntary basis." Felix raised the white eyebrows. "You are volunteering, aren't you?" "I suppose the fact that I'm here answers that one." "Of course. Now, there's a battle scheduled soon. I haven't been able to find out just when, but I did procure copies of the Utter Top Secret Battle Plans for both the Free Algerians and the Imperial Moroccans. Death penalty for possession, of course." He took a newspaper from an inner pocket -- a muchfolded copy of the Belfast Messenger -- and dropped it on the table. "What am I supposed to do? Stand around on a hilltop with a pair of binoculars and watch where the men disappear to?" Felix smiled -- an expression halfway between a fox and a wolf. "I have a few gadgets for you to field-test. Find out when that battle's scheduled, and I think you'll be able to take a look at just about whatever you want to." I took the newspaper. "So I'm back in uniform. I suppose I'd better check in with the UN Monitor General." "Send a card over. Perhaps it'll pass unnoticed in the daily mail. I want you to hold your official contacts to the minimum. Stay clear of the Embassy, the police, and the press corps. Your other instructions are with your orders. You'll find a tight-band communicator with fhe rest of the equipment. Keep in touch with me, John -- but don't try to contact me at the villa unless it's absolutely necessary." "You've made some pretty elaborate arrangements. This sort of thing costs money. Who's footing the bill?" "Let's just say it comes from a special fund." He finished his drink. "Go on over to the Feisal, get settled, and take a look around. I'll expect a preliminary report in a day or two." He stood, replaced the tabukuk on the table, gave me a quick handshake and was gone. I picked up the newspaper, leafed through. There were sheets of flimsy paper folded between the pages. I caught a glimpse of tiny print, terrain diagrams, the words Utter Top Secret. I folded it and took the last swallow of my gin. It seemed as mild as spring water suddenly. I dropped a five cee note on the table, tucked the paper under my arm and tried to look casual as I went outside to hail a cab. II T he King Feisal Hotel was a twohundred story specimen of government-financed construction out of Hollywood by the Arabian Nights, scarred by five years of North African sun and no maintenance. I paid off my helicab in the shade of thirty yards of cracked glass marquee, managed my own bags through a mixed crowd of shiny-suited officials, Algerian and Moroccan officers mingling quite peaceably outside business hours, beggars in colorful costumes featuring wrist-watches and tennis shoes, Arab guides in traditional white lapel-suits, hotlooking tourists, journalists with coffee hangovers, and stolid-faced UN police in short pants with hardI went up the wide steps and past potted yuccas and a uniformed Berber doorman with a bad eye that bored into me like a hot poker. I crossed the lobby to the registration console, slapped the counter and announced my arrival in tones calculated to dispel any appearance of shyness on my part. A splayfooted Congolese bellhop sidled up to listen as I produced the teleprinted confirmation of my reservation Felix had supplied, asked for and received verbal assurances that the water was potable and was directed to a suite on the forty-fifth level. It was a pleasant enough apartment: a spacious sitting room with old-fashioned aluminum and teakveneer furniture, a polished composition floor and framed post-neosurrealist paintings, adjoining a carpeted bedroom with a four-foot triD screen, a wide closet and a window opening onto a view of irregular brickwork across a twelvefoot alley. Behind the flowered wallpaper, there were other facilities, unknown to the present management, installed during construction at the insistence of one of the more secret agencies of the now defunct South African Federation. According to the long, chatty briefing paper Felix had tucked in herited the installation from a former tenant in return for a set of unregistered fingerprints and a getaway stake. I looked the room over, spotted a spy-eye in a drawer knob, a microphone among the artificial flowers -- standard equipment at the Feisal, no doubt. I would have to make a thorough examination of everything IF my first order of business -- as soon as I had a cold shower. I turned to the bedroom -- and stopped dead. My right hand made a tentative move toward my gun and from the shadows a soft voice said. "Uh-uh." H e came through the sitting room door with a gun in his hand, a middle-sized, neatly dressed man with wispy hair receding from a freckled forehead, quick eyes, an inch of clean, white cuff showing at his wrist. "I was supposed to be gone when you got here," he said in a quiet voice. "The boys downstairs slipped up." "Sure," I said. "They slipped up -- and I'm dancing tonight with the Ballet Russe." I looked at the gun. "What was I supposed to do, fall down and cry when I saw that?" He pinkened a little around the ears. "It was merely a precaution in the event you panicked." He pocketed the gun, flipped back a lapel to flash some sort of badge. "UN Police," he stated, as though I had asked. "Regulations require all military observers to report to UN Headquarters on arrival -- as I'm sure you're aware. You're to come along with me, Mr. Bravais. General Julius wants to interview you personally." "When did the UN start hiring gun-punks?" He looked angry. "You can't make me mad, Mr. Bravais." "I could try," I told him. I took a step toward him. "I could take that iron away for a start." He stepped back. "Don't do anything foolish! The gun fires real bullets." "Not today it doesn't. You don't shoot anybody without orders from the boss, do you?" I advanced on him, giving him the kind of grin tri-D villains practice in front of a mirror. "I could make an exception." His nostrils were white; I'd pushed him about as far as he'd go. "Oh, to Hell with it," I said in a careless tone, relaxing. "How about a drink?" He hesitated. "All right, Mr. Bravais. You understand there's nothing personal in this..." "I guess you've got a job to do like the rest of us. You're pretty good with that holding-the-breath bit." I grinned happily, demonstrating that I was the clever guy now, satisfied that I'd shown the opposition I was nobody's dummy. "I planned to see the general this afternoon anyway." I said. We had a short one and left together. B rigadier General Julius was a vigorous-looking, square-jawed, blond, crew-cut type, with an almost unbelievable smooth complexion which might have earned him the nickname Baby-face, if two fierce, coal-black eyes hadn't dominated the composition. The gray UN uniform he wore had been tailored by an artist. The three rows of service ribbons on his chest indicated that, in spite of his youthful appearance, he had been at the scene of most of the shooting wars of the past twenty years. He was wearing the IS old-fashioned Sam Browne belt and engineers' boots that the UN High Command liked to affect, but the hand gun protruding from the holster at his hip wasn't a pearl-handled six-shooter. It was the latest thing in pulse-energy weapons, stark and ugly, meant for murder, not show. "American Defense Department, eh?" He glanced at the copy of the perfectly legal orders Felix had managed for me, laid them to one side on the bare, highly polished desk top. He looked me over thoughtfully. It was very quiet in the office. Far away, a voice spoke singsong Arabic. A fly buzzed at a window "I just arrived this afternoon, General," I offered. "I took a room at the King Feisal -- " "Room #," Julius said sharply. I'm aware of your movements, Mr. Bravais. As UN Monitor General, I make it my business to keep informed of everything that occurs within my command." He had a flat, unpleasant voice, at variance with the wholesome, nationally-advertised look of him. I nodded, looking impressed. I thought about the death penalty attached to the papers in my pocket, and was worried how much more he knew... "By golly, that's remarkable. General," I said cheerfully. He narrowed his eyes at me. I had to be careful not to overdo the act, I reminded myself. "Makes a man wonder how you can find time for your other duties," I added, letting a small gleam of insolence temper the bland smile I was showing him. His eyes narrowed even further. I had the feeling that if he squeezed a little harder, they would pop out like watermelon seeds. "I manage, Mr. Bravais," he said, holding his voice smooth. "Just how long can we expect your visit to last?" "Oh, I wouldn't call it a visit, General," I said breezily. "I'm here "In that case, I hope you find Tamboula to your liking." His tone suggested that he thought it unlikely. "You've come at a fortunate time of the year. The racing is starting next week, and of course our grouse season is in full swing." "I've heard a great deal about the ecological projects here," I said. "Quite remarkable to see woodlands springing from the desert. But I'm afraid I'll have very little time to devote to sports. My particular interest is close-support infantry tactics." JV. I hand. "The feeling seems to have gained wide currency in some quarters that conflicts such as the present one are spectacles carried out for the diversion of the curious. Such is far from the case. A political question is being resolved on the battle-field. UN control will, we trust, limit the scope of the hostilities. Undue attention by representatives of major powers is not likely to assist in that effort. I suggest you consult the official history -- " "I believe the principle of the right of observation has been too IF well established to require any assertion by me -- " I started. "That is a matter quite outside my cognizance," the general broke in. "My responsibility is to insure that the provisions of the Manhattan Convention are adhered to. Vou'll understand that the presence of outsiders in the theatre unduly complicates that task." He spoke with a curious, flat intensity, watching me with an unwinking gaze like a gunfighter waiting for the signal to go for his hip. "General, I'm an accredited offi cial observer; I hope you don't in tend to deny me access to my subject?" "Just what is it you wish to observe?" he snapped. "Action at close range." Julius shook his head. "That will not be possible tonight -- " he caught himself. I permitted myself the liberty of a grin. "Tonight, eh?" Julius leaned across his desk toward me. He was holding his temper pretty well, but a glint of red fire showed in his eyes now. "You will not approach closer than five miles to the line of action," he said distinctly. "You will report to my adjutant daily at oheight-hundred hours and submit a schedule of your proposed movements. You will observe a nine o'clock curfew." I got to my feet. "You've made a point of calling me 'mister'; if your intelligence apparatus is as good as you say, you're aware that I handle the rank of Brigadier. I haven't asked for any courtesies, and I damned sure haven't gotten any, but don't bother planning my day for me -- and don't send out any more gun-handlers. I'll be on my way now, General. Just consider this a courtesy call; I'll operate on my own from now on." He came around the desk, strode to the door, wrenched it open, turned to face me. "General Bravais, I cannot be responsible for your safety if you disregard my orders." His voice had the grate of torn steel now. I had the impression General Julius was used to having his way. I wondered what he'd do if he got just a little madder... "You're not responsible for me in any event, Julius," I snapped. "I suggest you get back to your desk and cook up another chapter of that warmed-over, predigested, saltfree History of yours!" He was standing rigidly, holding the glass doorknob in a firm clutch. He stiffened as I spoke, then jerked his hand away from the doorknob; his lip was raised, showing a row of even white teeth. We stood, eyes locked. "I'm not accustomed to insolence in my own headquarters," he grated, letting himself sound mad now. I glanced down at the doorknob. The clear glass was shot through with a pattern of fractured planes. "I guess you squeezed it too hard. General," I said. He didn't answer. I went on out along the narrow, gray-painted corridor and out into the hard, white, North African sunshine. IF Ill I walked half a block at a pace just a trifle faster than the main flow, re-crossed the street, slowed and gave half a dozen grimy windews filled with moth-riddled mats and hammered brass atrocities more attention than they deserved. By the time I reached the end of the long block, I was sure: the little man with the formerly white suit and the pendulous lower lip was following me. I moved along, doing enough dodging around vegetable carts and portable Jimii shrines to make him earn his salary. He was a clumsy technician, and working alone. That meant that it was a routine shadowing job. Julius didn't consider me to be of any special interest. At an intersection ahead a sidewalk juggler had collected a cluster of spectators. I put on a burst, slid through the fringe of the crowd and around the corner. I stopped, counted to ten slowly, then plunged back the way I had come just in time to collide with my pursuer, coming up fast. We both yelped, staggered, groped for support, disengaged muttering excuses, and separated. I crossed the street, did an elementary double-back through an arcade and watched him hurry past. Then I hailed a noisy cruising helicab that had probably been condemned and sold by the City of New York Transit Authority a dozen years earlier. I caught a glimpse of him standing on the corner looking around worriedly as we lifted off over the rooftops. I didn't waste any sympathy on him. He had been carrying a heavy solid-slug pistol under one arm. a light energy gun under the other, and at least three hypo-spray syringes under his left lapel, probably containing assorted poisons to suit any personality he might take dislike to. I took out his wallet and riffled through it. There were a couple of hundred Algerian Francs, a new two cee American bill, a folded paper containing a white powder, a soiled card imprinted with the name of a firm specializing in unusual photographs, one of the photographs, a week-old horoscope and a scrap of paper with my name scrawled on it. I didn't know whether it was Julius's handwriting or not, but there was enough of a UN watermark showing to make the question academic. The cab dropped me in the wide plaza in front of the down-at-heels aluminum and glass Army-Navy-Air Club. I gave the driver the little man's two hundred francs. He accepted it without comment: maybe New York had thrown him in on the deal with the heli. I had an hour or two to kill now. It would be necessary to stay away from my room long enough to give Julius -- or anyone else with an in terest in my movements adequate time to look over the evidence planted there and satisfy himself as to my mission in Tamboula. Mean while, food was in order. I dodged the outstretched palm of a legless fellow mounted on an electric wheel board and pushed into the cool, pastel-tinted interior of the Club, where chattered conversations competed with the background throb of canned music. In the split-level dining room, I found a pleasant table by a sunny window. I had a surprisingly good lunch, lingered over a demi-bouteille of Chateau Lascombe '#, and watched the officers of the opposing armies scheduled to lock themselves in mortal combat an hour after sundown. They shared tables, chatting and laughing over the brandy and cigars, the bright green of the Free Algerian uniform making a handsome contrast with the scarlet of the Imperial Moroccans. It was either a civilized way to wage war, or a hell of an idiotic way for grown men to behave, I wasn't sure which. I turned my attention from them and devoted the next hour to a careful study of Felix's instructions. S unset was beginning to color the sky when I left the club and walked the four blocks to the King Feisal. Just opposite the marquee, a uniformed chauffeur seemed to be having turbine trouble. He stood, peering under the raised hood with a worried expression. I went past him and a pair of shady businessmen types who started a vigorous conversation as I came up, and fell silent as I went through the door. Inside, a slight, colorless European in a tan suit leaning against the end of the lobby news kiosk gave me a once-over that was as subtle as a left hook. At the desk, the small, round, Frenchified Arab day manager rolled his eyes toward the far end of the counter. I eased along, made a show of looking through the free tour maps. He sidled over, perspiring heavily. "M'sieu -- I have to tell you -- a man was interrupted searching your room this afternoon." His voice was a damp whisper, like something bubbling up through mud. His breath did nothing to lessen the similarity. "Sure," I said, angling myself so that the nearest operative could catch it without straining. "But how about the Casbah?" The manager blinked, then got into the spirit of the thing. "I would have held him for the police, but he made a break for it." "Say, that's fine. I've always wanted to see those dancing girls. Is it true about the raisin in their bellybutton?" "That fellow -- " the manager's eyes rolled toward a tall, thin man who was standing nearby leafing through a pictonews that looked as though his lunch had been wrapped in it -- "he has been here all the afternoon." His voice dropped to an even more confidential level. "I don't like his looks." I nodded. "You're right," I said loudly. "And he's not even reading: his lips aren't moving." The newspaper jerked as though he'd just found his name in the obituary column. I went past him to the elevator, waited until the man in the tan suit had followed me in and gotten settled: then I stepped back off. He hesitated for a moment, then showed me an expression like a man who has just remembered something, hurriedly got off. I promptly got IF back oa, turned and gave him a nice smile which he failed to return as the doors closed. Riding up, I did a little rapid thinking. The clowns in the lobby were a trifle too good to be true. The manager's little contribution was part of the performance, just in case I failed to spot them. Julius wanted to be sure I knew his eye was on me. I punched a button, got off a floor below my own, went along to the fire-stairs. I pushed through the glass door, went up past a landing littered with used ampoules and the violet-tinted butts of dope-sticks, came out in the shadows at the end of a poorly lighted corridor. My room was halfway along on the left. I went to it, put the microphone I wore disguised as a fingerring against the door, placed my ear against the ring. I heard the clack of water dripping in the bathroom, the hollow hum of the ventilator, sounds from beyond the windows, nothing else. I keyed the door quietly and went in: the room was empty, silent, sad in the early evening light. The key to my briefcase lay where I had left it. I shone my U-V penlight on it and examined the words: the fluorescent film with which I had coated the web was scored. That meant that by now Julius was scanning copies of a number of carefully prepared letters and notes establishing my anti-UN, anti-Julius sentiment. It was a risky secondary cover to use with a man as sensitive of personal status as the general, but Felix had decided on it after a close study of his dossier. Give a man what he expects to find, and he's satisfied. At least that was the theory. F or half an hour I puttered, putting away shirts, arranging papers, mixing another drink. At the end of that time I had completed my inspection and was satisfied nothing new had been installed in the suite since I had seen it a few hours earlier. The IR eye still peered at me from the center knob on the chest of drawers, and the pin head microphone in the plastic flower arrangement was still in place. I hung a soiled undershirt over the former. The audio pick-up didn't bother me. I'd just make it a point to move quietly. It was almost dark now -- time to be going. I made a few final noises in the bathroom with running water and clattering toilet articles; then I flipped off the lights, made the bed creak as I stretched out on it, then rose carefully, went to the closet, slid inside, and soundlessly shut the door. Following Felix's written instructions, I unscrewed the old-fashioned fluorescent tube from the ceiling fixture, pressed the switch concealed in the socket; the hatch in the end wall rolled smoothly back. I stepped through, closed it behind me, went along a narrow passage that ended in an iron ladder leading up. At the top I cracked my head in the dark, felt for the latch, lifted the panel and pulled myself up into the stifling heat of the dark, cramped room Severance had fitted out as my forward command post. It wasn't much to look at -- a seven by twelve foot space, low-ceilinged, blank walled, with a grimy double hung window at one end giving a view of irregular black roof tops and, far away, tall palms like giant dandelions against a sky of luminous deep blue that was growing deeper. I closed the shutter's and switched on the ceiling light, the sudden brightness hurting my eyes. A steel locker against the wall opened to the combination Severance had given me. If I had made an error, a magnesium flare would have reduced the contents to white-hot ash. I pulled the door wide, took out a limp, fish-scale textured coverall with heavy fittings moulded into the fabric at the small of the back and at the ankles. I pulled off my jacket, struggled into the garment: it was called an optical-effect suit, and it rets. It had the unusual property of absorbing some wavelengths of light and re-emitting them in the infrared, reflecting others in controlled patterns. It was auto-tuned over the entire visible spectrum, and was capable of duplicating any background pattern short of a clan Ginsberg tartan. I couldn't walk down a crowded avenue in it without causing a few puzzled stares, but in any less crowded setting, it was as close an approximation of a cloak of invisibility as science had come up with. It was the cover Lab's newest toy, and was worth a hundred thousand cees in small, unmarked bills in any of the secret market-places of the world. Felix had gone all the way in stealing it for me. T he second item I would need for the evening's adventure was a compact apparatus the size and shape of an old-style cavalry canteen, fitted with high-velocity gas jets and heavy clips which locked to matching fittings on the suit. I lifted it -- it was surprisingly heavy -- and clamped it in place against my chest. Broad woven wire straps stitched into the suit took up the weight. I tried the control -- a two-inch knob at the center of the unit. Immediately I felt the slightly nauseous sensation of free-fall. The surface of the suit cracked softly as static charges built and neutralized themselves against the field-interface. Then my toes were reaching for the floor. My focussed-phase field gravity settled over me again like a lead cape. I checked the deep thigh pockets of the suit; there was a pair of three-ounce, hundred-power binocular-goggles, a spring-steel sheath knife, a command-monitor communicator tuneable to the frequencies of both combatants as well as to the special band available only to Felix. I pressed the send-button, got no reply. Felix was out. In a buttoned-down pocket, I found a # mm needier, smaller and lighter than the standard Navy model I normally carried. Its darts were charged with a newly developed, wide-spectrum venom guaranteed to kill a charging elephant within a microsecond of contact. I tucked it back in its fitted holster with the same respect a snake-handler gives a krait. I was hot in the suit. Sweat was already beginning to trickle down my back. I switched off the lights, openIF ed the shutters and the window, crawled through and found a precarious foothold on a ledge. The air was cooler here. I took a couple of deep breaths to steady my nerves, carefully not looking down the sheer five-hundred-foot face of the building. I groped the communicator from my pocket, made another try to raise Felix: still nothing. I would have to move without the reassurance of knowing that someone was available to record my last words. I twisted the lift control. At once the close, airless pressure of the field shut away the faint breeze. Tiny blue sparks arced to the wall at my back. I was lifting now, feeling the secure pressure against my feet drifting away. I pushed clear, twisting myself to a semi-horizontal chest-down position, and waved my arms, striving for equilibrium, fighting against the feeling that in another instant I would plummet to the pavement. It was a long way down, and although my intellect told me my flying carpet would support up to a half ton of dead weight, my emotions told me I was a foolish and extremely fragile man, a long way from his native element. I touched the jet control lever, and at the forward surge, my vertigo left me. Suddenly I was a swift, soundless bird, sweeping through the wide night sky on mighty pinions -- A dark shape loomed in front of me. I gave the fieldstrength knob a convulsive twist, cleared an unlighted roof antenna by a foot. From now on. I fold myself, it would be a good idea to do my pinion-sweeping with a little more caution. I slowed my forward motion and angled steeply up. The lights were dwindling away below now, the glitter of ' Avenue desN at ions the hard shine from the windows of hotels and office buildings. The sounds that floated up to me were dull, muted by the field. At an estimated five hundred feet altitude, I took a bearing on the blue beacon atop the control tower at Hammarskold Field, a mile east of the town, opened my jets to full bore and headed for the battlefield. IV I hung three hundred feet above the sparsely wooded hill top where the blue-clad Moroccans had set up their forward field HQ, jiggling my position controls to counter brisk breeze and mentally calculating the odds against my being bagged by a wild shot. With my goggles tuned to low mag and IR filter, I was able to make out a cluster of officers around a chart table, three recon cars, parked behind the crest of the hill with their drivers beside them, and a line of dug-in riflemen on the forward slope. Five miles to the north, the pale blue flashes of the Algerians' opening bombardment winked against the horizon. The battle's objective was a bombed-out oasis occupying the center of the shallow valley ringed by the low hills over one of which I now hovered. According to Felix's Utter Top Secret battle plan, the Algerians would thrust their right forward in a feint to the Moroccan left, while quickly bringing up the bulk of their light armor behind the screen of the hills on the enemy right. The Moroccan strategy was to sit tight in defensive entrenchments until the enemy intention became clear. Then they would launch a drive straight down the valley, with a second column poised to take the Algerians in the flank as soon as they struck from cover at the Moroccan flank. It seemed like a nice, conventional exercise, and I felt sure the boys would enjoy it a lot. The Algerian ballistic shells were making vivid puffs high above the thumps of sound as the Moroccan anti-ballistic artillery made their interceptions. At each flash the details of the battlefield below blinked into momentary clarity. It was an almost steady flickering, like heat lightning on a summer evening. I turned up my binocular magnification, scanned the distant Algerian massing area for signs of their main column moving out. They were a minute or two ahead of schedule. The churn of dust was just beginning to rise above the lead element: then antidust equipment went into operation and the cloud dissipated. Now I could pick out the tiny pinpricks of running lights, coming swiftly around in the shelter of the distant hills to form the arrowhead of the Algerian attack. I lifted myself another hundred feet, jetted toward their route of advance. They were coming up fast, risking accidents in the dark to beat the best time the Moroccans would have estimated was possible. I arrived over the cut through which they would turn to make their dash for the oasis just as the lead tank rounded into it, a massive Bolo Mark II, running without lights. The Moroccans, caught in the trap of overconfidence in their intelligence analysis, still showed no signs of recognizing the danger. The first squad of four Algerian combat units was through the pass now, gunning out into the open. The bombardment went on, building to a climax, lulling the Moroccans into keeping their heads down, secure in the assumption that the enemy would hold his armor well back from the rain of devastation showering down from above. Belatedly now, a volley of flares went up from the Moroccan side: the tanks had been spotted. Abruptly the valley burned dead white under a glare like six small suns. Each racing tank was the base of a cluster of long, bounding shadows of absolute black. I dropped lower, watched the second and third elements follow the lead units through the pass. The fourth unit of the last squad, lagging far behind, slowed and came to a stop. A minute passed. Then he started up and moved slowly ahead by passing the designated route of march. Out on the plain, Moroccan tanks were roaring out from their positions two miles to my left, guns stabbing across the plain, both columns together in a hammer-blow at the Algerian surprise thrust. Below me, the tank trundled heavily away from the IF scene of action, veering to the left now, moving into broken ground. The approved Battle Plan had included no detachment operating independently on the Algerian left. If the wandering Bolo were detected by the monitors  -- as it must inevitably be within minutes -- the battle was forfeit, the fury and destruction all for nothing. Something was up... I ignored the battle shaping up on the plain, dropped to a hundred feet, followed the tank as it lumbered down a shale-littered slope into deep shadow. I moved carefully between towering walls of shattered rock, fifty feet above the floor of the dry wadi along which the Bolo moved in a sluggish crawl, a finger of light from its turret probing uncertainly ahead as though exploring new and dangerous territory. It negotiated an awkward turn, halted. I saw a faint gleam as its hatch cycled: then a silhouetted man clambered out, dropped to the ground: the tank sat with turbines idling, its searchlight fixed aimlessly on a patch of bare rock, like the gaze of a dead man. I turned up the sensitivity of my goggles, tried to penetrate the darkness. I couldn't see the driver. I moved closer. Something massive and dark was coming up the ravine toward me, hovering about two yards above the ground. It was a flattish shape, roughly oval, dull-colored, casting a faint blue-green glow against the rocky walls as it maneuvered gently around a projecting buttress, settled in close to the Bolo. For a moment nothing happened. The idling engine of the tank was a soft growl against utter stillness, punctuated by the sounds of distant battle. Then there was a heavy thud. The sound reminded me of a steer I had seen poleaxed once in a marketplace in Havana. I worked my binocular controls, tuning well over into the IR. The scene before me took on a faint, eerie glow. I maneuvered to the right, made out an oblong patch of lesser blackness against the dark ground. Abruptly shadows were sliding up the rock wall. The angry snarl of an engine sounded from behind me. I lifted myself quickly, moved back against the ravine face. The armored shape of a late model command car careened into view, an opaque caterpillar of dust boiling up behind it, the blue-white lance of its canyon floor, picking up the dusty flank of the squatting giant, reflecting from the polished rim of its open hatch. The car slowed and stopped directly below me, hovering on its air-cushion, the blue-black muzzles of its twin infinite repeaters poking through the armorglass canopy, centered on the tank. A minute passed. Faint, flickering light stuttered against the sky in the direction of the battle. The car below sank and came to rest slightly canted on the boulder-strewn ground. Its engines died. Metal clanked as its door slid open. A man in the dull green of the Algerian field uniform stepped out, a pistol in his hand. He shouted in Arabic. There was no reply. He walked forward into the settling dust in the alley of light from the car's headlamp, his shadow stalking ahead. I saw the glint of the palmleaf insignia on his shoulder. A major, probably the squadron commander. He stopped, seemed to totter for a moment, then fell stiffly forward, hit hard on his face, lay without moving. I hung where I was, absolutely still, waiting. From the darkness between the stalled tanks, a creature came into view, padding silently on broad, dead white paws like ghastly caricatures of human hands. Stiff, coarse hair bristled on the lean, six-foot body, growing low on the forehead of a naked face like a fanged and snouted skull. A pattern of straps crisscrossed the razor back. Light winked from metal fittings on the harness. It came up to the man who lay face down with his feet toward me, fifty feet below, settled itself on its haunches, fumbled with its obscenely human hands in a pouch at its side. I caught a glint of light from polished instruments: then it crouched over the man, set to work. I heard a grating sound, realized that I had been grinding my teeth together in a rictus to shock. Cold sweat trickled down the side of my neck under the suit. Down below, the creature worked busily, its gaunt, narrow-shouldered body screening its task. It shifted position, presenting its back now, the long curve of its horselike neck. I had to force my hand to move. I slipped the dart gun from its fitted pocket, flipped off the safety. The beast labored on, absorbed in its victim: quick motions of its elbows reflected its deft manipulations. A feeling of nightmarish unreality seemed to hang over the scene: the wink and rumble of artillery beyond the hills, the knifelike sharpness of the shadows thrown by the light of the command car, the patient whine of the idling engine, the intent, demonic figure. I took careful aim just below a triangular clasp securing two straps that crossed the arched back, and fired. T he creature twitched a patch of hide impatiently, went on with its work. I aimed again, then lowered the gun without firing a second time. If one jolt of Felix's wide-spectrum venom had no effect, two wouldn't help. I flattened myself in the pocket of shadow against the cliffface, watched as the alien rose to a grotesque two-legged stance, pranced away on its rear hands toward the body of a driver, lying crumpled by the nearest Bolo. The major lay on his back now: his cap nearby, his gun a yard beyond it. There was blood on his face and on the dusty stone under him. I estimated the distance to the command car, gauging the possibility of reaching it and training the forward battery on the monstrosity was now leaning over the second man. There was a sudden, sharp yelp. The alien darted a few steps, collided glancingly with the massive skirt of the Bolo, veered toward me. IF I caught a glimpse of a gaping mouth, a ragged, black tongue, teeth like needles of yellow bone. The stricken demon bit at its rear quarters, running a tight circle like a dog chasing its tail, yelping sharply: then it was down, kicking, scrabbling with its pale, flat hands, raising a roil of dust. Then it stiffened and lay still. I dropped quickly to the ground and switched off the lift-field. I caught the reek of exhaust fumes, the hot-stone odor of the desert, a sharp, sour smell that I knew emanated from the dead creature. Sounds were louder now: the distant firing took on a sharp and immediate quality. The keening turbine was like a wail of abandoned hope. I went to the body of the major, bent over it. The face was slack, the eyelids unnaturally sunken. There was a clean wound across the forehead at the hairline: the hair was matted with glistening blood. I turned him on his face and felt the blood drain from my own. The top of his skull had been cut free. It hung in place on a hinge of scalp. Inside the glistening red-black cavity was nothing. I leaned closer. A deep incision gaped from the base of the skull down under the collar. Very little blood had leaked from it: the heart had stopped before the wound was made. The alien lay fifteen feet away. I looked across at it, my breathing coming fast and shallow now, hissing between teeth that were bared in a snarl. Every instinct I owned was telling me to put space between myself and the demonic creature that had walked like a beast but had used its hands like a man. I heard of hackles rising: now I felt them. I gripped the gun tighter as I crossed the last few feet, stood lookng down at the sparse, rumpled coat through which dull gray-pink skin showed. I prodded the body with a boot: it was stiff, inert, abnormally heavy. I pushed harder, rolled it over. At close range, the face was yellowish white, dry, porous-textured. The hands were outflung, palms up, bloody from the trepanning of the major: near one lay a bulging, gallon-sized sack, opaque with dust. I stepped around to it, knelt and wiped a finger across the bulge on the surface. It was yielding and warm to the touch. Pinkish fluid wobbled under the taut membrane. I brushed away more dust. Now I could see a pink, jellylike mass suspended in the liquid. It had a furrowed surface, like sunbaked mud, and from its underside a thick, curled stem hung down, neatly snipped off at the three-inch mark. I prodded the bag: the mass stirred: a snow-white sphere just smaller than a golf ball wavered into view, turning to show me a ring of amber brown with a black center dot. The beast had been a skilled surgeon. In just under five minutes it had removed the major's brain, complete with eyeballs. V T he battle sounds were slackening now. It wouldn't be long before another vehicle came along the IF ravine in search of the missing Bolo and the officer who had followed it. I stood, feeling my heart pound as though I had run a mile, fighting down the sickish feeling that knotted my stomach. I didn't have much time and there were things to be done -- now. I could have a nervous collapse later -- after I had played this nightmare scene out to its end. The tankman, lying awkwardly beside his machine, was dead, already cooling to the touch. I went back to the fallen demon, went through the pouches attached to the creature's harness, found a case fitted with scalpels, forceps, a tiny saber saw. There was a supply of plastic containers and a miniature apparatus with attached tubing -- probably a pump-and-filter combination for drawing off plasma. There was another container, packed with ampoules of a design I had seen recently -- on the landing in my hotel. The thought was like a cold finger on my spine. The last pouch yielded a scrap of smooth, tough paper, imprinted with lines of pot-hooks of a sort I had never seen before. I tucked it away in my knee-pocket, got to my feet. The paper was better than nothing as evidence that I hadn't been the dreamer of a particularly horrible nightmare. But I needed something that would communicate some of the shock that had turned my heart to ice. Felix need to see that skullwhite face... The ravine was still quiet: maybe I had time. I ran to the car, started it up, brought it forward, halted it beside the dead man. I jumped down lifted the limp, still warm body into the cockpit. I remounted, maneuvered up beside the dead alien. I opened the cargo compartment at the rear of the car, then gritted my teeth and grasped the creature's hind wrists. Through the gloved hands of the suit, the bristles were as stiff as scrub-brushes. I dragged the corpse to the car, used the power of the suit to lift the three-hundred-pound weight, tumbled it inside. I went back for the sack containing the brain, put it on the seat beside the dead major, then climbed in and headed back up the ravine. As I reached the first turn, a glare of light projected the car's moving shadow on the rock wall fountain from the open hatch of the Bolo. I gunned the car, felt a tremor run through the rock an instant before I heard the blast. Small stones rained down, bounded off the canopy and hood. Either the tank had been mined for automatic destruction if abandoned, or the creature I had killed had set a time-charge to eliminate the traces of his clandestine visit. I tramped on the throt tie, holding my thoughts rigidly on my driving. I wasn't ready yet to think about the implications of what I had seen. I could feel the full shock of it, lurking in the wings, waiting to jump out and send me screaming for a policeman -- but that would have to wait. Now, like a thief fleeing a broached vault with an unexpectedly rich haul, I was concerned only with # ? getting clear with my prize while there was still time. Because there was no doubt that in a little while -- when whoever, or whatever was awaiting the return of the brain-thief realized that something was awry -- a variety of hell would break loose that would make ordinary death and destruction seem by comparison as mild and wholesome as a Spring formal. I skirted the hills where flood' lights were glaring now in the Moroccan camp: the cease-fire had apparently been sounded: UN monitors would be moving out on the field, tallying casualties, looking for evidence of illegal weapons, checking out complaints by both sides of Battle Plan violations. I hoped that in the general excitement the absence of the command car would go unnoticed for now. The road into Tamboula was a wide, well-patrolled highway: I avoided it, took a route across a wasteland of stunted mesquite, skirted a trenched and irrigated field, orderly in the light of the new-risen moon, stopped by a clump of trees fifty yards from Felix's villa, a former farmhouse, converted by capable of withstanding a siege that would have leveled Stalingrad. The windows were dark. I took out my communicator, pressed the red button which turned it to Felix's special equipment. "Wolfhound here, Talisman. Anybody home?" There was no reply. I tried again: nothing. It was too early to start worrying, but I started anyway. There were sounds on the road behind me now. The troops -- those who had survived -- tired and happy after their evening's fun, were starting back to their billets in town. Even if my borrowed car hadn't been missed yet, the sight of it would inspire laggard memories. I couldn't stay here. General Julius had been less than enthusiastic about my presence in Tamboula: my arrival at his headquarters in a stolen Algerian command car would hardly be calculated to soothe his irritation. But even a stuffed shirt of a political appointee would have a difficult time shrugging off what I had to show him. And I had to share the knowledge of my cargo with someone -- now. I gunned the car around the side of the house, out across a field of cabbages, mounted the raised highway and barreled for the city at flank speed. I parked the car beside a gleaming Monojag in the well-lighted but deserted ten-car garage under UN headquarters, pulled off the suit and harness, took the lift to the third floor, walked through deserted offices to General Julius' door, went in without knocking. He was there, sitting at his desk, square-shouldered and grim-jawed, like a cornered police chief promising the press an arrest at any moment. He didn't move as I came up to his desk. "I'm glad I caught you. General," I said. "Something's happened that you should know about." He was a long time reacting to my presence -- as though he were wool-gathering a long way off. His IF eyes seemed to focus on me slowly. His mouth opened, then closed hard. "Yes?" he snapped. "What do you want?" "Have you had a report of a missing Bolo and a command car?" His dead-black eyes narrowed. I had his attention now. The room seemed very still: there was tension in the air, as though many ears were listening for what I might say next. "Missing combat units?" Julius said expressionlessly. "Go on." "An Algerian Mark II wandered off the beaten path. It wound up in a ravine about three miles south of the action." Julius stared at me. "You observed this?" His fingers squeaked on the desk top. "That's right. The car followed the Bolo in. A major was driving it." "You imply that this vehicle maneuvered in violation of the Battle Plan?" His tone was smooth now -- like the edge of an axe. "They left the field of action and went south. Let's not play footsie about the Battle Plan. Sure I had a copy. Grow up, General. I'm not a reporter for a family magazine. I'm here on business. Part of my business is to know what's going on." "My order to you -- " "Don't ride a busted bluff down in flames, General. How about that Bolo?" Julius leaned forward. "A ravine, south of the battle ground?" "That's right. There's not much left of it. It blew." "How close were you?" "Close enough." "And the car?" "It's downstairs, in your garage." I let that one ride. Julius cocked his head, as though listening to advice from unhear voices. "Where did you find the vehicle?" "Where the driver left it." "And you took it?" "Look, General, I didn't come here to talk about traffic violations. I saw something out there -- " "You dared to defy me?" Julius' classically chiseled upper lip was writhing back in a snarl: behind his eyes red fires burned. It seemed to be taking all his will power not to bite me. "You entered the battle zone -- " "Forget that!" I cut him off. "There's some kind of vehicle sitting out there near what's left of the Bolo. The blast probably caught it, but there should be enough left to work on. I saw what got out of it. It wasn't human. It killed the driver and the major." I stopped then, belatedly. What I was saying sounded wild, even to me. "Come with me, General," I said. "I'll show you." Abruptly, he laughed -- a harsh, tinny sound. "I see. It's a joke," he stated. He got to his feet. "Just one moment. I have an important call to make." I stared after him as he strode across the room, disappeared into an inner room. There was a call-screen beside his desk. I went to it, cautiously eased the conference switch to the 'on' position. There was a soft hum, nothing more. A pad lay on top of the cabinet, marks scribbled on it. I half turned away -- I stood looking down at the paper. my heart starting to thump again under my ribs like a caged bird. The lines on the paper were not mere random jottings. They were letters, words: words in an alien script. I had seen similar pot hooks less than an hour before -- on the paper I had taken from the pocket of the demon. A t that moment Julius strode back into the room, his face fixed in a smile as authentic as the gold medals on a bottle of vermouth. "Now, General Bravais," he said in a tone of forced geniality, "why don't you and I sit down and have a quiet drink together?" I shook my head. It was time for me to stop talking and start thinking -- something I hadn't done much of since the four-handed horror had stalked out of the shadows and into my world-picture. I had come here, babbling out my story, wanting someone to share the shattering thing I had seen. But my choice of confidants had been as poor as the judgment I had been showing ever since I had left the ravine. I had channeled my panic into the outward semblance of sober, reasonable action -- but it had been panic nonetheless. Julius had his office booze cabinet open now. Shelves with icebuckets, tongs, bottles, glasses deployed themselves at the touch of a button. "What about a Scotch, General?" He suggested. "Bourbon? Soy?" "I'd better be on my way, General," I said. I moved toward the door, "Perhaps I got a little too excited. Maybe I was seeing things." My hand was feeling for the dart gun -- until I realized, with a pang of unpleasant excitement, that I had left it in the car with the lift-suit. "Of course! You're probably famished. I'll just order up a bite. I haven't eaten myself." "No, thanks, General. I'm pretty tired. I'll check in at my hotel and..." My voice trailed off foolishly. I -- and Felix -- had gone to considerable trouble to leave the public with the impression that I was tucked safely away in my room. Now I was here, putting Julius on notice that while his watchdogs curled happily on my doorstep, I had been out on the town -- and the super-secret equipment Felix had lent me was lying unattended in the car. "I have quarters right here in the building, General Bravais," Julius bored on. "No need to go back to your rooms. Just make yourself comfortable here." I held up a hand and fixed a silly smile in place. It came naturally. I felt as phony as a man who reaches for his wallet after a big dinner and feels nothing but his hipbone. "I have a couple of appointments this evening," I gushed, "and some papers I want to go over. And I need to get my notes in shape." I had the door open now. "What about first thing in the morning?" Julius was coming toward me, with an expression on his face that human features had never been shaped for. A good soldier knows when he's up against something too big to handle -- when it's time to run. IF I slammed the door on the square tight-lipped face, sprinted for the lift, then bypassed it, plunged for the stairs. Behind me there was a heavy crash and the pound of feet. I skidded through the scattered butts on the landing, leaped down five steps at a time. I could hear Julius above, not getting any closer, but not losing any ground either. As I ran, I tried to picture the layout of the garage. The lift door had been in the center of the wall, with another door to its left. The car was parked fifteen feet from it. It would be to my left as I emerged. I needed more time. There was a trick for getting down stairs quickly -- if my ankles could take it. I whirled around the second landing, half-turned to the left, braced my feet, the left higher than the right, and jumped. My feet struck at an angle, skidded: I shot down as though I were on a ski slope, slammed the next landing, took a quick step, leaped again. The door to the garage was in front of me now. I wrenched it open, skidded through, slammed it. There was a heavy thumb latch. I flipped it, heard the solid snick as it seated. I dashed for the car, leaped the side. A thunderous blow struck the heavy metal-clad fire door behind me. I scrambled into the seat, kicked the starter, saw dust whirl from beneath the car. There was a second clangorous shock against the armored door. I twisted, saw it jump -- then, unbelievingly, bulge -- The metal tore with a screech. A hand groped through the jagged opening, found the latch, plucked it from the door as though it were made of wet paper. The car was up on its air cushion now; I backed it as the door swung wide. Julius came through, ran straight for me. I wrenched the wheel over, gunned the twin turbines; the car leaped forward, caught Julius square across the chest with a shock as though I had hit a hundred-year oak, carried him backward. I saw furrows appear in the chromalloy hood as his fingers clawed -- Then the car thundered against the masonry wall and rebounded in a rain of falling bricks. Through the dust, I saw Julius's arm come up, strike down at the crumpled metal before him with a shock that I felt through the frame. There was a howl of metal in agony -- then a deafening rattle as the turbines chattered to a halt. The car dropped with a bone-bending jar. I stumbled out, half-dazed, stood staring at General Julius' dustcovered head and shoulders pinned between the ruined car and the wall, one arm outflung, the other plunged through metal into the heart of the engine. I became aware of voices. I turned and saw a huddle of locals, one or two pale, wide-eyed European faces at the open garage doors. Like a man in a daze I walked around the rear of the wrecked car, pulled open the door of the Monojag parked beside it, transferred the suit and life-harness to the other car. I took the sheath knife from the suit pocket, went to the cargo compartment of the Turbocad, threw open the lid. A wave of an unbelievable stench come from the body of the dead thing inside. I gritted my teeth, sawed at the skin of the long, lean neck. It was like hacking at an oak root. I saw a pointed ear, almost grasped it, worked at it with the keen blade. Brownish fluid seeped out as I worried through it. Behind me, the curious spectators were shouting questions back and forth now. With a savage slash, I freed the ear, jammed it in a pocket, then whirled to the Monojag, jumped in, started up. I backed, wheeled out, and away down the street. In the mirror, I saw the crowd start cautiously forward. Driving aimlessly along dark streets, I tried again and failed again to raise Felix on my communicator. I switched on the radio, caught a throaty male contralto muttering a song of strange perversions. On another channel, wild brass instruments squealed a hybrid syncopated alhaza. On a third a voice gushing with synthetic excitement reported the latest evidence of an imminent coldwar thaw in the form of a remark made at a reception by the wife of an Albanian diplomat in the hearing of the Chinese Charge to the effect that only French wine would be served at a coming dinner in honor of the birthday of the Cuban President. The next item was about a madman who had murdered an Algerian officer. The victim's headless body had been found in a stolen military vehicle which had been wrecked and abandoned near UN headquarters. I looked at my watch, lulius's heirs were fast workers. It had been exactly sixteen minutes since I had left his body pinned under the wreckage of the command car. VI I parked the Turbocad three blocks from the King Feisal, took five minutes to don the OE suit, complete with lift-harness, then drove slowly along toward the hotel. The news bulletin had said nothing about the car I was now in; it had also failed to mention the dead general, the body of the alien or the bagged brain. It wasn't mere sloppy reporting. The version of the story that was being released had been concocted hurriedly, but carefully. I could expect that other measures would have been taken, with equal care. It was not time for me to allow myself the luxury of errors in strategy -- but there were things I needed in my secret hideaway. The hotel was just ahead now. I slowly edged toward the curb. To an observer, the car would appear to be empty, a remoted pickup objected to sharing transportation with anything as unreliable as a human driver. A doorman in an ornate Zouave uniform came forward, glanced in the car as it came to a stop; he looked around sharply, turned and took three steps to a IF call-screen, talked tersely into it. Moments later, two hard-eyed men in unornamented dark coveralls strode from the hotel entry, fanned out to approach the car from two sides. I had seen enough to get the general idea. i nudged the car into motion, steering between the two wide-shouldered, lean-hipped trouble boys. One whipped out a three-inch black disk -- a police control-override. A red light blinked on the dash. The car faltered as the external command came to brake. I gunned it hard, felt the accelerator jam. The nearer man was swinging alongside now, reaching for the door. An unfamiliar lever caught my eye, mounted to the left of the cruise control knob; I hit it, felt the accelerator go to the floor. There was a sharp tug, a rending of metal, and the car leaped ahead. In the mirror I saw one of the two men down, skidding to the curb. The other stood, feet apart, bringing a hand gun to bear -- I cut the wheel and howled into a cross street as solid slugs sang off the armored bubble next to my ear. Ahead, a startled man in a white turban leaped from my path. Late drinkers at a lone lighted sidewalk cafe stared as I shot past. I got the needier out, put it on the seat beside me. I half-expected to see a roadblock pop up ahead. If it did, I would hit it wide-open. I had no intention of stopping until I had put a healthy distance between myself and the man I had seen in the mirror, scrambling to his feet, still holding in his hand the door handle he had torn from the car. I parked the all-too-identifiable car a block farther along, oh a dark side street; I palmed the gun, slid out, stood in the darkness under a royal palm with a trunk like gray cement, giving my instincts a chance to softly whisper warnings in my ears. It was very still here. Far away, I heard a worn turbine coming closer, then going away. The moon was up now, an icy blue-white disk glaring in a pale night sky, casting shadows like the memory of a noonday, long ago. My instincts were as silent as everything else. Maybe the beating I'd been giving them all evening had given them the impression I didn't need them any more. Maybe they were right. I hadn't slowed down yet long enough to let what I had seen filter through the fine sieve of my intellect: I had been playing it by ear from moment to moment. Maybe that was the best technique, when half of what you saw was unbelievable and the other half was impossible. I tried to raise Felix again; no answer. He had warned me to stay clear of police stations. After my reception at UN HQ it was easy advice to take. He had also told me to stay clear of his villa -- except in emergencies. That meant now. I activated the left belt, rose quickly and headed west. N o light showed in the villa as I came in on it from the east. I used my nearly depleted jets to brake to a stop against the flow of the river of dark night air and hovered, looking down on the moonlit rooftop of Algerian tile, the neat garden, the silvery fields stretching away to the desert. I took the communicator from the suit pocket, tried again to raise Felix. A sharp vibration answered my signal. I brought the device up close to my face. "Felix!" I almost shouted, my words loud in my ears inside the muffling field. "Where the hell have you been? -- " I broke off, suddenly wary. "John, old boy. Where are you? There's been the devil to pay!" It was Felix's familiar voice -- but I had had a number of expensive lessons in caution since sundown. "Where are you, Felix?" "I'm at the house: just got in. I tried to check with you at the hotel, but little men with beady eyes seemed to be peering at me from every keyhole. I gave it up and came here. "Where've you been these last hours? Something's going on in the town. Nothing to do with you, I hope!" "I tried to call you," I countered. "Where were you?" "Yes -- I felt the damned thing buzzing in my pocket. As it happened, it wasn't practical for me to speak just then. When I tried you, I got no reply." "I've been busy. I guess I missed your buzz." There was a moment's silence. "So you were mixed up in whatever it is that's got them running about like ants in a stirred hill?" "Maybe. I want to see you. Meet me in town -- at the Club." "Is that safe, John?" "Never mind. Get started; half an hour." I broke off. Down below, the house was a silent block of moonwhite masonry. A low-slung sports car squatted by the front door. Foreshortened trees cast ink-black shadows on the gravel drive. The front door opened, closed quickly. Felix's tall, lean figure came down the steps, reached the car in three strides. He slid into the seat, started up, backed quickly, headed off along the curving way. His lights came on, dimmed. "All right, that's far enough," I transmitted. "I just wanted to be sure you were there, and alone." Below, the car slowed, pulled to the side of the road. I saw Felix craning his neck, his face a white blob in the pale light. "It's that serious, eh, John? Right. Shall I go back to the house?" "Put the car in the drive and get out." I dropped lower, watching him comply. I gained fifty feet upwind, curved in so that the wind would bring me across the drive. Felix stopped the car by the front door, stepped out, stood hands in pockets, looking around as though deciding whether it was a nice enough night for a stroll. I corrected my course and dropped lower. I was ten feet above the dry IF lawn now, sweeping toward him silently at fifteen miles per hour. His back was toward me. At the last instant, he started to turn just as my toe caught him behind the ear in a neatly placed kick. He leaped forward, fell headlong, by face down, arms outflung. I Topped to the drive, shut down the field, stood with the gun ready in mv hand, watching him. The impact had been about right -- not the massive shock of slamming against whatever it was that had masqueraded as General Julius, or the metal-shearing wrench that had torn the door handle from the car. I walked toward him, knelt cautiously, rolled him over. His mouth was half open, his eyes shut. I took the sheath knife from my knee pouch, jabbed him lightly in the side. The flesh seemed reassuringly tender. I took his limp hand, pricked it. The skin broke: a bead of blood appeared, black in the dim light. I sheathed the knife with a hand that shook. "Sorry, Felix," I muttered. "I had to be sure you weren't machined out of spring steel like a couple of other people I've met this evening." I nside, I laid Felix on a low divan in the dark room, put a cold damp cloth on his forehead and waved a glass of plum brandy under his nose. There was a bluish swelling behind his ear, but his pulse and respiration were all right. Within a minute he was stirring, making vague swimming motions and then, suddenly, sitting up, eyes open, his hand groping toward his underarm holster. "It's all right, Felix," I said. "You had a bump on the head, but you're among friends." "Some friends." He put a hand up. touched the bruise, pronounced a couple of Arabic curses in a soft voice. "What the devil's up, John? I let you out of my sight for an hour or two, and the whole damned official apparatus goes into a Condition Red flap." "I used the gear, Felix. I tracked a Bolo down a side trail, about three miles off the battle map. I saw things -- things I'm going to have trouble telling you about." Felix was looking at me keenly. "Take it easy, old man. You look as though you'd had a bit of a shaking." He got to his feet, wavered for a moment, went across to the bar. "No lights," I said. "Who're we hiding out from?" He got out glasses and a bottle, poured, came back and sat down. He raised his glass. "Confusion to the enemy," he said. I took a sip, then a gulp. The Scotch felt as smooth as cup grease. "I'll try to take it in order," I said. "I watched the tank stop. The driver got out -- and fell on his face." "No shot, signs of gas, anything of that sort?" "Nothing. I was fifty feet away, and felt nothing, smelled nothing, saw nothing. Of course the field "Wouldn't stop a gas, or a vibratory effect. Was there any fluorescing of the field interface?" IF I shook my head, went on with my story. Felix listened quietly until I mentioned the poisoned dart I had fired. His face fell like a bride's cake. "You must have missed!" "After about two minutes, it got the message: yelped a few times, chased its tail, had a modest fit and died." "My God! The thing must have the metabolism of a rock crusher. Two minutes, you say?" "Yep." I went on. When I finished, he frowned thoughtfully. "John, are you sure?" "Hell, I'm not sure of anything! The easiest hypothesis is that I'm out of my mind. In a way, I'd prefer that." I fumbled, brought out the severed ear I had cut from the dead alien. "Here, take a look at this and then tell me I sawed it off poor old Bowser, who just wanted me to play with his rubber rat." Felix took the two-inch triangle of course-haired gristle, peered at it in the near-dark. "This is from the thing in the canyon?" "That's right." I tried another pocket, found the printed hieroglyphics I had taken from the creature's pouch. "And this. Maybe it's a simple Chinese laundry list -- or a Turkish recipe for goulash. Maybe I'm having delusions on a grand scale." Felix stood. "John... He eyed me sharply. "What you've turned up calls for special measures. We can't take chances now -- not until we know what it is we're up against. I'm going to let you in on a secret I've sworn to protect with my life." He led me to a back room, moved a picture, pressed unmarked spots on the wall. A panel slid back in the floor. "This is the Hole," he said. "Even be sure of avoiding interruption there." "Felix -- who do you work for?" He held up the severed ear. "Suffice it to say -- I'm against the owner of this." I nodded. "I'll settle for that." T hree hours later, Felix switched off the lights in the laboratory and led me into a comfortable lounge room with teak paneling, deep chairs, a business-like bar, and wide pseudo-windows with a view of a moonlit garden with fountains, which helped to dispel the oppressive feeling of being two hundred feet underground. I sat in one of the chairs and looked around. "Felix, who built this place? Somehow, this doesn't look like a government-furnished installation to me. You've got equipment in that lab that's ahead of anything I'Ve seen. And you're not as surprised at what I've told you as you ought to be." He leaned over and slapped me cm the knee, grinning his Mephistophelean grin. "Buck up, Johnny. I sent you out to find an explanation of something. You've found it -- with bells on. If it takes a few devil-dogs from Mars to tie it all together, that's not your fault." "What the hell did I stumble into last night?" He finished mixing drinks, sat down across from me, rubbing the side of his jaw. The air conditioners made a faint hum in the background. "It's the damnedest tissue I've ever examined," he said. "Almost a crystalline structure. And the hairs! There are metallic fibers in them. Incredibly tough. The fluid was a regular witches' brew; plenty of cyanoglobin present." He shook his head. "Something out of this world, to coin a phrase." "In other words, we've been invaded?" "That's one way to put it -- unless someone's invited them." He put his glass on the table at his elbow, leaned forward. "We know now that whatever it was that was attached to the ear is responsible for the disappearance of men from battlefields and other places. From the number of such incidents, we can surmise that there are hundreds -- perhaps thousands of these creatures among us." "Why hasn't someone seen them?" #i"T"hat's something we have to ifind out. Obviously they employ some method of camouflage as they go about their work. "Secondly, they've been busy among us for some time. Missingpersons figures were anomalously high as far back as World War One. That data for earlier conflicts are unreliable, but such as they are, they don't rule out the possibility." "Apparently these creatures have a use for human brain tissue. From the description you gave me, I surmise that the organ was in a nutrient solution of some sort -- alive." "My God." "Yes. Now, we're faced with not one, but two varieties of adversary. It's plain that our former associate, General lulius, was something other than human. The same may be said of the individual who attempted to stop your car." "They looked as human as I do. Maybe more so." "Perhaps they are. Modified, of course, to serve alien purposes. Some such arrangement would be necessary in order to carry on the dayto-day business." "What business -- other than brain-stealing?" "Consider for a moment. They've infiltrated the UN. From the speed with which they worked, it's obvious that they have a large and wellintegrated operation -- and methods of communication far more subtle than the clumsy apparatus we employ. As for your 'accidentally' meeting agents of the invader at every official contact, I'd say it's likely that they control every official agency in Tambo'ula. In effect, the city is in their hands. here, Felix! Fifty governments are represented. I've only seen a couple of these Supermen." "True. But they say for every rat you see in the barnyard, there are probably a hundred hiding somewhere." He looked almost pleased. "We're on our own, John. We can't shout for a policeman." IF "What can we do? We're holed up under a hundred feet of shielded concrete, with plenty of food, liquor, and taped tri-D shows -- but we might as well be locked in a cell -- " Felix held up a hand. "We're not without resources, John. This hideaway was designed to provide the most complete and modern facilities for certain lines of research and iesting. We know a few things about our aliens now -- things they don't know we know. And I'm sure they're puzzling over your dramatic appearances and disappearances much as we're pondering their capabilities. They're not super-beings. My little stinger killed one. You eluded others. Now that we know something of the nature of the enemy, we can begin to design counter-measures." "Just two of us?" "I didn't mean to imply that the enemy controls everything , John. It wouldn't be necessary. One or two cowboys can control quite a large herd of cattle." "Why herd us at all? Why not just round us up, chop out our brains and let it go at that?" "Oh, many reasons. Conservation of natural resources. Ease of harvesting. And then, perhaps, we might not be quite safe, if we were once alerted to what was going on. Cattle have been known to stampede... "So -- what do we do?" tt'IT Te leave Tamboula. Back in  r America, we make contact with a few individuals known to us personally. I'd steer clear of Barnett, for example, but there are a number of reliable men. Then we construct a counter-alien organization, armed and equipped. And then -- well, we'll see." "And how do we go about leaving Tamboula? I have an idea the whole scheme breaks down right there." Felix looked sober. "I'm afraid our old friend Bravais will never be seen departing from these shores." I waited. A small grin was tugging at the corners of his mouth. "I think he'll have to disappear in much the same manner that Major deSalle of the UN Medical Staff dropped from sight -- and as one H. D. Brown, who leased the same house, will vanish one day soon." "Behind a false beard and a set of brown contact lenses?" "Nothing so crude, my dear fellow." Felix was positively rubbing his hands together in anticipation now. "I'm going to give you the full treatment -- use some of those ideas guinea pigs for up till now. You'll have a new hair color. Self-regenerating, too. New eye color and retinal patterns, an inch or two difference in height, new finger and dental prints -- " "None of that will do me much good if some curious customs man digs under the dirty socks and finds that piece of ear. That's all the evidence we've got." "Never fear, John. You won't be unprotected." There was a merry glint in his eye now. "You won't merely have a new identity. I'm gear. If a General Julius jumps out at you then, just break him in two and keep going." viii I was sitting od the edge of a wooden chair, listening to a thin bumming in my head. "Tell me when the sound stops," Felix said. His voice seemed to be coming from a remote distance, even though I could see him, standing a few feet away, looking hazy, like a picture shot through cheese cloth and faded. I pressed the switch in my hand. Felix's blurred features nodded. "Good enough, John. Now come around and let's check those ligament attachment." I relaxed the muscles that had once been used to prick up the ears, thus switching my hearing range back to the normal. I made a move to rise and bounded three feet in the air. "Easy, John!" Felix had emerged from inch-thick arrear plastic walls. "We can't have you springing about the room like a dervish. Remember your lessons." I balanced carefully, like a man with springs tied to his shoes. "I remember my lessons," J said. "Pain has a way of sticking in my mind." "It's the best method when you're in a hurry, John." "How did the test go?" "Not badly at all. You held it to .# microbel at # cycles. How was the vision?" "About like shaving with a steamed mirror. I still get only blacks and whites." "You'll develop a color discretion after a while. Your optic center has been accustomed to just the usual six hues for thirty-odd years It can't learn to differentiate in the ultra violet range overnight." "And I can't adjust to the feeling that I weigh half an ounce, either, dammit! I dance around on my toes like a barefooted hair-dresser on a hot pavement." Felix grinned as though I'd paid him a compliment. "In point of fact, I you now weight three hundred and twenty-eight pounds. I've plated another five mills of chromalloy onto the skeletal grid. Your system's shown a nice tolerance for it. I'm pulling one more net of the number nine web over the trapezius, deltoids and latissimi dorsi -- " "The tolerances of my metabolism are not to be taken as those of the management," I cut in. "These past six weeks have been a vivisectionist's nightmare. I've got more scars than a Shendy Tribesman, and my netves are standing on end and waving around like charmed snakes. I'm ready to call it a day and try it as is." Felix nodded soberly. "We're about finished with you, John. I know it's been difficult, but there's no point in taking anything less than our best to the fray, is there?" "I don't know why I don't ache all over," I grumbled. "I've been sliced, chiseled and sawed at like a side of beef in a butcher's college. I suppose you've got me doped to the eyebrows. Along with all the other strange sensations, a little thing like a neocaine jag would pass unnoj ticed." "No -- no dope. Hypnotics, old boy." "Swell. Every day in every way I'm hurting less and less, eh?" I took a breath, more from habit than need. The oxygen storage units installed under the lower edge of my rib cage were more than half charged; I could go for another two hours if I had to. "I know we're in a hell of a spot -- and it's better to sail in with grins in place and all flags flying than sit around telling each other the crisis has arrived. But I'm ready for action." Felix was looking at papers, paying no attention at all. "Surely, old man. Gripe all you like," he said absently. "Just don't get friendly and slap me on the back. I'm still made of old-fashioned flesh and blood. Now, I'd like another check on the strain gauges." I closed my mouth and went across to the Iron Man -- a collection of cables and bars that looked like an explosion in a bicycle factory. "The grip, first." I took the padded handle, settled my hand comfortably, squeezed lightly to get the feel of it, then put on the pressure. I heard a creak among the levers; then the metal collapsed" like a cardboard under my hand. I let go. "Sorry, Felix. But what Ihe hell, thin-guage aluminum... "That's a special steel tubing, coldextruded, two tenths of an inch thick," Felix said, fingering the wreckage. "Try a lift now." I went over to a rig with a heavy horizontal beam, bent my knees, settled my shoulders under it with a metal-to-wood clatter. I set myself, slowly straightened my legs. Tho pressure on my shoulders seemed modest -- about like hefting a heavy suitcase. I came fully erect, then went up on my toes, pushing now against an almost immovable resistance. "Slack off, John," Felix called. "I believe I'll consider you've passed your brute-strength test. Over twenty-nine hundred pounds. About what a Chevette runabout weighs -- and I don't think you were flat out at that." "I could have edged a few ounces more." I flexed my shoulders. "The padding helped, but it wasn't quite thick enough." "The padding was two inches of oak." He looked at me, pulling at his lower lip. "Damned pity I can't take you along to the next Myoelectronics Congress. I could make a couple of blighters eat two-hour speeches saying it wasn't possible." I took a turn up and down the room, trying not to bounce at each step. "Felix, you said another week to let the incisions heal. Let's skip that. I'm ready to go now. You've been in town every day, and haven't seen any signs of abnormal activity. The alarm's died down." "Died down too damned quickly to suit me," he cut in. "It's too quiet. At the least, I'd have expected someone out to check over the house. You'll recall that the former tenant, my alter-ego, turned in a report on missing men and head wounds; but they haven't been near the place. There's been nothing n the papers since the first day or two -- and I daresay that it wouldn't have been mentioned then, except that a crowd of idlers saw you kill Julius." "Look, Felix. I've got so damned much microtronics gear buried in my teeth I'm afraid to eat anything tougher than spaghetti. I've got a laser wired into my left ring-finger, and enough servo-motors bolted to my insides to power an automatic kitchen. Let's skip the rest of the program and get going. I may nave new stainless-steel knuckles, but it's the same old me inside. I'm getting those hell-hounds are doing up there." "What time is it, John?" Felix asked suddenly. I glanced at the black-and-chromium wallclock. "Twenty-four minutes after nine," I said. Felix raised his hand and snapped his fingers -- I felt a slight twitch -- as though everything in the room had jumped half an inch. Felix was looking at me with a quizzical smile. "What time did you say it was?" "Nine twenty-four." "Look at the clock." I glanced at it again. "Why, is it -- " I stopped. The hands stood at ten o'clock sharp. "Clock manipulation at a distance," I said. "How do you do it -- and why?" Felix shook his head, smiling. "You've just had another half-hour session in deep hypnosis, John. I want another couple of days to reinforce that primary personality fraction I've split off before I tie it in with a mnemonic cross-connection. We want your alter-ego to be sure to swing into action at the first hint of outside mental influence." "Speaking of psychodynamics, how are you coming along with your own conditioning?" "Pretty well, I think. I've been attempting to split off a personality fraction for myself. I'm not sure how effective my efforts have been. Frankly, autohypnotics were never ; my strong suit. Still, there are a few  facts that I can't afford to expunge j from my mind completely -- but on the other hand, I can't afford to let the enemy have them. I've buried them in the alternate ego, and keyed them to a trigger word. The same i word is tied to my heart action." j "In other words -- if anyone cues  this information, it's suicide for you." I (i Correct," Felix said cheerfully. "I need the basic power of the survival instinct to cover this information. I've given you the key word under hypnosis. Your subconscious will know when to use it." "Pretty drastic, isn't it?" "It's tricky business, trying to outguess a virtually unknown enemy. But from their interest in brains, it's a fair guess that they know a bit about the mechanics of the huI man mind. We can't rule out the possibility that they possess a tech nique for controlling human mental processes. I can't let them control mine. I've too many secrets." I chewed that one over. "You IF may be right. That tank driver didn't behave like a man who was running his own affairs. And whatever it was that hit him and the major -- " "It could have been an amplified telepathic command -- to stop breathing, perhaps -- or shutting off the flow of blood through the carotid arteries. From the fact that it didn't affect you, we can assume that their technique is selective. It probably requires at least a visual fix on the object, for a start." "We're assuming a hell of a lot, Felix. We'd better do some more field work before we reason ourselves right out onto the end of a long limb." Felix was looking thoughtful. "It shouldn't be too difficult to arrange shielding around the personality center area. A platinum-gauge micro-grid with a filament spacing of about -- " "Oh-oh. This sounds like another expedition into the seat of what I once thought of as my intelligence." Felix clucked. "I can handle it with a number # probe, like building a ship in a bottle. It could make a great difference -- if it works." "There's too much guesswork here, Felix." "I know," he nodded. "But we've got to extract every possible ounce of intelligence on the enemy from the few fragments of data we have. I don't think we're going to have much in the way of a second chance." "We'll be doing well if we have a first one." "You are getting nervy." "You're damned right! If I don't get going soon, I may funk the whole act and retire to a small farm near Nairobi to write my memoirs." Felix cackled. "Let's dial ourselves a nice little entrecote avec champignon and a liter or two of good Burgundy and forget business for an hour or two. Give me three more days, John. Then we'll make our play -- ready or not!" IX T he night air was cold and clean. Gravel crunched under my feet with a crisp, live sound. Felix tossed our two small bags in the boot of the car, paused to sniff the breeze. "A fine night for trouble," he said briskly. I looked up at the spread of fat, multi-colored stars. "It's good to be out, after fifty days of stale air and scalpels," I said. "Trouble or no trouble." I slid into my seat, taking care not to bend any metal. "We'll have to register you as a lethal weapon when this caper is over," Felix said, watching me gingerly fasten my seat belt. "Meantime, watch what you grab if I take a corner a trifle too fast." He started up, pulled off down the drive turned into the highway. "It's not too late to change plans and take the Subsea Tube to Naples," I said. "I have a negative vibration when it comes to rocket flights. Why not go underground, the way the Lord intended us to travel?" "I won the deck-cut, old boy," Felix said. "For myself, I've had enough of the underground life for now. I want a fast transit to New York." "I feel a little exposed right now," I said. "Too damn bad we don't have two OE suits." "Wouldn't help if we did. You couldn't get aboard an aircraft, tube or anything else without showing up on a dozen different monkey-business detectors. But we'll be all right. They aren't looking for me -- and your own mistress wouldn't know you now. You're good-looking, boy!" "I know. I'm just talking to keep myself occupied." "You have our prize exhibit all cozy in your trick belt?" "Yep." We drove in silence for the next mile. The city lights glowed on our right as we swung off on the part road. We pulled into a mile-wide lot under banked polyarcs, rode a slipway to the rotunda, a glass-walled arena under a paper-thin airfoil cantilevered out in hundred yard wings from supporting columns of ferroconcrete twelve feet in diameter at the base. I concentrated on walking without hopping while Felix led the way across to an island of brighter lights and polished corners where showgirls in trim uniforms stamped tickets and gave discouraging answers to male passengers with threehour layovers to kill. I watched the crowd while he went through the formalities. There were the usual fat ladies in paint and finger rings, slim haughty women with strange-looking hats, bald businessmen with wilting linen and a mild glow expensively acquired at the airport bar, damplooking recruits in rumpled uniforms, thin official travelers with dark suits, narrow shoulders and faces as expressive as filing cabinets. Once I spotted a big black and tan German shepherd on a leash, and twitched: my foot hit a parked suitcase, sent it cannonballing against the counter. Felix stepped in quickly, soothed the fat man who owned the mishandled luggage, guided me toward a glass stairway that swept up to a gallery lined with live-looking palms. We headed for a pair of frosted glass doors under three-foot in flowing script. "We have nearly an hour before take off Time for a light snack and a stirrup cup." Felix seemed to be in the best of spirits now. The fresh air had revived me, too. The sight air of businesslike bustle, the bright lights made the memories of stealthy horrors seem remote. We took a table near the far side of the wide, mosaic-floored, softly lit room. A smiling waitress in leis and a grass skirt took orders for martinis. Across the room, a group of bow-legged men with flamboyant shirts strummed guitars. Felix glanced around contentedly. "I think perhaps we've overestimated the opposition, John." He lit up a dope-stick, blew violet smoke toward an ice bucket by the next table. "Another advantage of rocket travel is the champagne," he remarked. "We can be nicely oiled by the time we fire retros over Kennedy." IF "While we're overestimating the enemy, let's not forget that he has a number of clever tricks we haven't quite mastered yet," I put in. "Getting out of Tamboula is a start; but we still have the problem of contact when we reach the States. We won't accomplish much hiding out in back rooms over tamale joints, sneaking out at night for a pictonews to find out what's going on." Felix nodded. "I have some ideas on that score, John. We'll also need a quick and inconspicious method of identifying 'human' aliens. I think I know how that can be done. We can work with the radar albedo of the alien skin, for example: it must be a rather unusual material to withstand puncturing steel doors." He was smiling again, looking happy. He leaned toward me, talking against a strident voice from the next table. "I've been working for twenty years, preparing for what I've termed a 'surreptitious war', based on the premise that when the next conflict took place, it would be fought not on battlefields, or in space, but in the streets and offices of apparently peaceful cities: a war of brainwashing techniques, infiltration, subversion, betrayal. It's been in the air for a hundred years now: a vast insanity that's kept us flogging away, nation against nation, race against race -- with the planets at our fingertips, beckoning... S omething was happening. The music was changing to a sour whine in my ears. The chatter at the tables around me was like the petulant cries of trapped monkeys in vast, bleak cages. Felix was still talking, jabbing with a silver spoon to emphasize his points. My eyes went to the double doors fifty yards distant across the brittle-patterned floor. Beyond the obscure glass, dark shapes moved restlessly, like dim shadows of crawling men. I pushed my chair back. "Felix!" I croaked. " -- could have established a permanent colony of perhaps five thousand. Carefully picked personnel, of course -- " "The door!" My voice was choking off in my throat as though a hand were crushing it. The air in the room seemed to darken; tiny points of light danced before me. "Something wrong, old boy!" Felix was leaning toward me. a concerned expression on his face. He looked as unreal now as a paper cutout -- a cardboard man in a cardboard scene. Far across the room the door swung silently open. A staring corpse-pale face appeared at the level of a man's belt. It pushed into the room, the long, lean, bristled body pacing on legs like the arms of apes, the fingered feet slapping the floor in a deliberate rhythm. A second beast followed, smaller, with a blacker coat and a grayish ruff edging the long-toothed face. A third and fourth passed through the door, both rangy, heavy, their long bodies sagging between humped shoulders and lean flanks. The leader raised his head, seeming to sniff the air. "Felix!" I pointed. He turned casually, let his gaze linger a moment, then glanced at me with a slight smile. "Very attractive," he said. "You must be recovering, John, for a pretty face to excite you -- " "Good God, Felix! Can't you see them!" He frowned. "You're shouting, John. Yes, I saw them." I was aware of faces turning toward me at the surrounding tables, eyebrows raised, frowns settling into place. I reached out, caught Felix's arm. His face contorted in a spasm of agony. "Felix! They've come! Four of them!" He smoothed his features with an effort, tugged against my grip. His eyes were stricken. "Johnny -- the strain has been too much for you -- " he started. "Felix, you've got to listen. What do you see coming through that door!" "Four young women," he said in a choked voice, "Very gay, very sweet. Would that I had time..." His face was paling. "John, you're breaking my arm!" I jerked my hand back. "They're aliens, Felix! The dog things I saw in the ravine! Look again! Try to see them!" The leading demon had turned toward us now. The white face was fixed on me as it came on, steadily, relentlessly, stalking unnoticed along the aisle between the tables where diners laughed and talked, forking food into over-fed mouths. Felix turned, stared. "They're coming toward us," he said in a voice thin with strain. "The first young lady is dressed in yellow -- " "It's a thing like a tailless dog: a skull-face, stiff black hair. Remember the ear!" F elix tensed: an uncertain expression crept over his face. He turned toward me. "I -- " he started. His features went slack: his head lolled, eyes half open. The music died with a squawk. Conversation drained into silence. The first of the montrosities quickened its pace: its head came up as it headed straight for me. I leaned toward Felix, shouted his name. He muttered something, slumped back, stared vacantly past me. "Felix, for God's sake, use your gun!" I jumped up. My knee caught the table. It went flying against the next one: Felix tumbled back, slammed to the floor. I caught a momentary impression of dull-faced patrons. sitting slackly at tables all around. There was a quickening slap of beast-hands now as the leading thing broke into a clumsy gallop, closing now, red eyes glinting, the black tongue lolling from the side of the wide jaws as it clearing the last few yards, sprang -- With a roar of horror, I swung my right fist in a roundhouse blow that caught the monster squarely on the neck. It went crashing across a table in an explosion of silver, glasses and laden plates, to go down between tables in a tangle of snowy linen; then the second demonic thing was on me. I saw dagger-teeth flash, ducked aside, caught a thick foreIF arm, feeling the flesh tear under my hand as I hurled it aside. The beast whirled, squealing thinly, reared up seven feet tall -- I struck at it, saw its face collapse into pulped ruin. It fell past me, kicking frantically. The last two attackers split, rushed me from both sides. I ran toward the one on the left, missed a swing at its head, felt the clamp of teeth on my arm, the impact of its weight like a feather mattress, I staggered, caught myself, slammed blows at the bristled side. It was like pounding a saddle. I struck for the head then, saw skin and flesh shear under the impact, struck again, knocked an eye from its socket -- And still the thing clung, raking at me with its pale hands like minstrel's gloves. I reached for its throat with my free hand, whirled to interpose its body between me and the last of the four creatures as it sprang: the impact knocked me back a step, sent the attacker sprawling. It leaped up, slunk around to the left of a fallen table to take me from the side. A t that moment, to my horror, the music resumed. I heard a tinkle of laughter, an impatient call for a waiter. Beyond the crushed head at my arm, with its single hate-filled eye, I caught a glimpse of the animated faces of diners, busy forks, a raised wine-glass -- "Help me, for the love of God!" I roared. No one so much as glanced in my direction. I ripped at the locked jaws on my arm, feeling bone and leather shred and crumble. With a sound like nails tearing from wood, the fangs scraped clear, shredding my sleeve. The long body fell back, slack. I threw it aside, turned to face the last of the monsters. Baleful red eyes in a white mask of horror stared at me across a table ten feet away where a man with a red-veined nose sniffed a glass thoughtfully. On the floor at my feet, Felix lay half under the body of a dead demon. Now the last of the four creatures moved in. Beyond it, I saw a movement at the entrance: the door swung wide. Two demons came through it at a run, then another -- The thing nearest me crouched, wide mouth gaping. It had learned a measure of caution now: I took a step back, looked around for a route of escape -- "Now!" a silent voice seemed to shout in my mind. "Now!" I took my eyes from the death's head snarling three yards away, fixed my eyes on Felix's face. "Ashurbanipal!" I shouted. Felix's eyes opened -- dead eyes in a slack face. "The Franklin Street Postal Station in Coffeyville, Kansas," he said in a lifeless monotone. "Box #. Code." There was a rasp of horny finger on the floor, a blur of movement as the demon sprang. It landed full on Felix's chest, and I saw its boned snout go down. I threw myself at it, grappled the bristled torso to me, felt bones collapse as we smashed against a IF table, sent it crashng down. I kicked the dead thing aside, scrambled up to see a pack of its fellows leaping to the attack, more boiling through the open doors. I caught a glimpse of Felix, blood covering his chest -- then I leaped clear and ran. Far across the wide room, tall glass slabs reared up thirty feet to the arched ceiling. Tables bounded to left and right as I cut a swathe across the crowded flcar. Ten feet from the wall, I crossed my arms over my face, lowered my head and dived. There was a shattering crash as the glass exploded from its frame. I felt a passing sting as huge shards tumbled aside. There was a moment of whipping wind; then I slammed against the concrete terrace as lightly as a straw man, rolled, came to my feet, sprinted for the darkness which lay beyond the lighted plaza. Behind me glass smashed. I heard through the opening, the scrabble of feet. People whirled from my path with little screams; then I was past them, dashing across a spread of lawn, then crashing through underbrush like spiderwebs and into the clear. In the bright moonlight the stony desert stretched to the seacliffs a mile distant. Behind me, I heard the relentless gallop of demonic pursuers. In my mind was the image of the comrade I had left behind -- the incomparable Felix, dead, beneath a tidal wave of horrors. I ran -- and the Hounds of Hell bayed behind me. X I huddled in a sea-carved hollow at the base of a crumbling twenty-foot cliff of sandy clay, breathing in vast gulps of cold, damp air, hearing the slap and hiss of the surf which curled in phosphorescent sheets almost to my feet. Far out on the black, Mediterranean, gleaming points of light winked on the horizon: ships lying to anchor in the roadstead off Tamboula. I pulled my coat off. peeled my blood-stiffened shirt from my back. By the light of the moon I examined the gouges across my left forearm, made by the demon's teeth. Tiny gleaming filaments of metal showed in the cuts. The thing's fangs had been as hard as diamond. Cold night wind whipped at me. Felix hadn't thought to install any insulation in the course of the remodeling. I tore a sleeve from my shirt, bound up my arm. There were cuts on my face and shoulders from the glass. Not deep and, thanks to Felix's hypnotic commands, not painful -- but blood was flowing freely. I got to my feet and waded out ankle-deep, scooped cold salt water in my wounds, then pulled my shirt and coat back on. It was all I could do in the way of first aid. Now it was time to give my attention to survival. I didn't know how many miles I had run -- or how far behind the dog-things trailed me. Perhaps I had escaped them. I keened my hearing, not breathing, hoping there would be nothing but the deep sigh of the wind... From far across the plain, I heard the slap of galloping beast-hands, how many I couldn't tell. There was a chance that if I stayed where I was in the shelter of the cliff they might pass me by. But they had come unerringly to me as I sat in the bright-lit restaurant with Felix -- The thought of my dead companion was like a ghostly knife-wound in my chest. Felix, the urbane, the elegant! I remembered his jaunty smile, the irrepressible high spirits that had met every challenge with a counter-attack. And now, he was alone back there, dead, under a tidal wave of demons. I wouldn't wait here, to be cornered in the dark. Better to meet them in the open, kill as many as I possibly could before they bore me down. There was a narrow strip of wet, boulder-dotted beach running along the base of the sheer wall behind me. I went a few yards along it, splashing through shallow pools. An earth-fall had made a shelving slope to the level ground above. At the top, I lay flat and looked out across the pebbled plain. I saw that I was at the tip of a tongue of desert thrusting out into the sea, a narrow peninsula no more than a hundred yards wide at its base, narrowing to the point where I lay. Far away, the city was a pink glow against the sky. Near at hand, I saw dark shapes that could very well have been rocks -- or crouching enemies. I squinted down hard to trigger my visual boaster complex. The desert sprang into instant, vivid clarity. Every stone fragment, mesquite bush, darting ground rat, stood out as under a full moon. A hundred yards away, a long, dark-glistening creature bounded from the shelter of a rock slab, swinging its pale, snouted face from right to left, then back, as it ran. Over the roar of surf, the distant whirr and clatter of night-locusts, the pad of its feet was loud now. Its breathing was a vile intimacy in my ears. When the thing was fifty feet away, it stopped abruptly, one white hand raised. Its gleaming eyes turned toward my hiding place. Then it leaped straight toward me. I came to my feet, caught up a head-sized rock that seemed as light as cork, threw it; it slammed off the creature's flank with a sound like a brick hitting a board fence, knocked it off its feet -- but the thing was up in an instant, leaping across the last few yards -- I leaned aside, swung a kick that went home with a thud, then chopped a bone-smashing blow behind the shoulder ruff, felt the spine shatter. The thing struck heavily, rolled lay for a moment, stunned. Then the head came up. It moved feebly, scrabbling with its front legs -- toward me. I felt the skin prickle along the back of my neck. "What are you?" I called hoarsely. "Where do you come from? What do you want?" The ruby eyes held on my face; the broken body lunged forward another foot. IF "You understand me! Can't you speak?" Still it dragged itself on, its jaws smiling their skull-smile. The smell of its blood was a poison chemical reek. I looked back toward the city. Far away, I saw movement -- low shapes that galloped silently. From all across the barren plain they streamed toward the point of land where I stood, summoned by the dying creature at my feet. I stood at the edge of the cliff above the breaking surf, watching them come. It was useless for me to run any any farther. Even if I escaped the trap I had entered, there was no refuge along the coast. Algiers was sixty miles to the east. To the west there was nothing between me and Oran, over a hundred miles away. I could run for half an hour before oxygen exhaustion forced me to stop, cover perhaps twenty miles, but the aliens would follow with the patience of death. I was cornered, brought to bay. Out across the dark water, the nearest ship lay no more than two miles offshore. The dog-things were close now. I could see them silhouetted against the lesser skyglow, like some evil swarm of giant rats, piped from their lair by the music of Hell. A plague of demons. The leaders slowed, coming on cautiously, dozens of them, almost shoulder to shoulder -- I turned, leaped far out toward the black surf below; felt the icy waters closing over me. Swimming just above the muddy bottom, I struck out for deep water, heading out to sea. T he ocean floor by night was a magic land of broken terrain, darting schools of many-colored fishes, waving screens of green, translucent weed. A hundred feet from shore the bottom fell away and I swept out over a dark chasm, feeling the chill currents of deep water as I angled downward. The small fish disappeared now. A great, dark, lazy shape sailed toward me out of blackness, was swallowed up in gloom. There was noises, grunts, shrill whistles, the grind and thud of tidestirred rocks on the bottom, the distant, mechanical whirring of a propellor-driven boat. After twenty minutes, my vision began to blur. I was feeling the strain in my arms and the first stifling sensations of oxygen starvation. I angled upward, broke the surface, saw the low silhouette of a half-submerged vessel a quarter of a mile away across rippled ink-and-silver water, streaked with the winking reflections of her deck lights. I trod water, looking around. A bell-buoy clanged a hundred yards distant. Farther away, a small boat buzzed toward shore from a ship farther out. There was a smell of sea-things, salt, a metallic odor of ship's engines and a vagrant reek of oil. There was no indication of pursuit from the shore. I swam on toward the ship, came up on her from the starboard quarters across her stern. There was a deckhouse beyond a low guard rail, a retractable antenna array perched atop it with crimson and white lights sparkling at the peak. Farther forward, small deck cranes poised over an open hatch like ungainly herons waiting for a minnow. I caught a faint sound of raucous music, a momentarily raised voice. The odor of petroleum was strong here, and there was a glistening, filmy scum on the water. She was a tanker, loaded and ready to sail, to judge from the waterline, a foot above her anachronistic plimsoll. I pulled myself up on the corroding hull-plates, inched my way to the rail, crossed to the deckhouse. The door opened into warmth, light, the odors of beer, tobacco smoke, unlaundered humans. I took a great, grateful lungful. This was familiar, reassuring; the odor of my kind of animal. S teep stairs led down. I followed them, came into a narrow corridor with a three-inch glare-strip along the center line of the low ceiling. There were doors set at ten-foot intervals along the smooth, buff-colored walls. Voices muttered at the far end of the corridor. I stepped to the nearest door, listened with my hearing keened, then turned the handle and stepped inside. It was an eight-by-ten cell papered with photo-murals of Central Park, chipped and grease-stained at hand level. There was a table, a metal locker, a hooked rug on the floor, a tidy bunk, a single-tube lamp clamped to the wall above it beside a handpainted plaster plaque reprsenting a haloed saint with a dazed expression. Footsteps were coming along the corridor. I turned to the door as it opened and nearly collided with a vast, tall man in a solid undershirt bulging with biceps, blue trousers worn low to ease a paunch that looked slight against his massive bulk. He stared down at me, frowning. He had curly, uncut hair, large, dull-brown eyes, a loose mouth. There was a deeply depressed scar the size of an egg on the side of his forehead above his left eye. He raised a hand, pointed a thick finger at me. "Hey!" he said, in a startingly mellow tenor. He blinked past me at the room. "This here it my flop." "Sorry" I said. "I guess I kind of stumbled into the wrong place." I started past him. He moved, blocking the door. "How come you're in my flop?" he demanded. He didn't sound mad -- just mildly curious. "I was looking for the mate," I said. "He must be down the hall, eh?" "Heck no. The mate got a fancy place aft." He was looking me over now. "How come you're all wet?" "I fell in the water," I said. "Look, how are you fixed for crew aboard this ship?" The giant reached up, rasped at his scalp with a fingernail like a banjo pick. "You want to sign on?" IF "Right. Now -- " I started. "Who you want to see, you want to see Carboni. Oh, boy." The loose mouth curved in a vast grin. "He'll be surprised, all right. Nobody don't want to sign on aboard the Scabbier." "Well, I do. Where do I find him?" The grin dropped. "Huh!" "Where can I find Mr. Carboni -- so I can sign on, you know." The grin was back. He nodded vigorously. "He's prob'ly down in the ward room. He's prob'ly pretty drunk." "Maybe you could show me the way." He looked blank for a moment, then nodded. "Yeah. Hey." He was frowning again, looking at my shoulder. "You got a cut on ya. You got a couple of cuts. You been in a fight?" "Nothing serious. How about Mr. Carboni..." The finger was aimed at me like a revolver. "That's how come you want to sign on the Scabbier. I betcha. You croaked some guy, and the cops is after ya." "Not as for as I know, big boy. Now -- " "My name ain't Big Boy. It's Joel." "Okay, Joel. Let's go see the man, all right?" "Come on." He moved out of the doorway, started off along the corridor, watching to be sure I was following. "Carboni, he drinks a couple of bottles and he gets drunk. I tried that but with me it don't work. One time I drank two bottles of booze but all it done, it made me like burp." "When does the ship sail?" "Huh? I dunno." "What's your destination?" "What's that?" "Skip it Joel. Just take me to your leader." A fter a five-minute walk along criss-crossing passageways, we ducked our heads, stepped into a long, narrow room where three men sat at an oilcloth-covered table decorated with a capless ketchup bottle and a mustard pot with a wooden stick. There were four empty liquor bottles, on the table and another, nearly full one. The drinker on the opposite side of the table looked up as we came in. He was a thick-necked fellow with a bald head, heavy features, bushy eyebrows, a blotchy complexion. He sat slumped with both arms on the table encircling his glass. One of his eyes looked at the ceiling with a mild expression; the other fixed itself on me. A frown made a deep crease between the eyes. "Who the hell are you?" His voice was a husky whisper. Someone had hit him in the windpipe once. It hadn't improved his manners. I stepped up past Joel. "I want to sign on for the cruise." He swallowed a healthy slug of what was in the glass, glanced at his companions, who were hitching, around to get a look at me. "He says it's a cruise," he rasped. "He wants to sign on, he says." The eye went to Joel. "Where'd you pick this bird up?" Joel turning, said, "Huh?" "Where'd you come from, punk?" The eye was back on me again. "Mow'd you get aboard?" "The name's Jones," I said. "I swam. What about that job?" "A job. he says." The eye ran over me. "You're a seaman, eh?" "I can learn." "He can learn, he says." "Not many guys want to sign on this tub, do they, Carboni," Joel asked brightly. "Shut up," Carboni growled without looking at him. "You got blood on your face," he said to me. I put my hand up, felt a gash across my jaw. "I don't like this mug's looks," one of the drinking buddies said in a voice like fingernails on a blackboard. "A chain-climber. I got a good mind to throw him to hell off back into the drink where he came from. He looks like some kind of a cop to me." He was a long-faced, lanky, big-handed fellow in grimy whites. He had a large nose, coarse receding gums. "Do I get the job or not?" I said, looking at Carboni. "I'm talking to you, mug," the long man said. "I asked you if you are a cop." "Who runs this show?" I said, still watching Carboni. "You or this talking horse?" I jerked a thumb at the latter. He made an explosive noise, started getting up from the bench. "Sit down, Pogey," Carboni snarled. The lanky man sank back, talking to himself. itnpbat's a pretty good swim out from shore," Carboni said. "You musta been in a pretty big hurry to leave town." I didn't say anything. "Cops after you?" "Not that I know of." "Not that he knows of, he says." Carboni grinned. He had even white teeth; they looked .as though they had cost a lot of money. "Any papers?" I shook my head. "No papers, he says," Carboni relayed. "You want me I should pitch him over the side, Carboni?" the third man spoke up. He was a swarthy man with stubby arms and a crooked jay. like a dwarfed giant. "Cap'n wouldn't like that," Joel said. "Cap'n said we needed crew." "Up the captain," the horsey man with stubby arms and a crooked jaw, said. "We don't need no -- " "Pogey," Carboni cut in. He rolled the eye over to bear on him. "You talk too much. Shut up." He jolted his chair back, turned, lifted a phone off a wall bracket, thumbed a call button. The glass eye was rolled over my way now, as though watching for a false move. "Skipper, I got a bird here says he's a seaman," Carboni said into the instrument. "Claims he lost his papers." There was a pause. "Yeah," , Carboni said. "Yeah." He listened again, then hitched himself up in the chair, frowning. He glanced toward me. "Yeah?" he said. I let my gaze wander idly across the room -- and switched my hearing IF ' f into high gear. Background noises leaped into cracking presence. The hum of the phone was a sharp whine; I heard wood and metal creak, the thump of beating hearts, the glutinous wheeze of lungs expanding, the heavy, grate of feet shifting on the floor -- and faintly, in an excited voice: "...UN radio a gun bumped off somebody maybe a couple... try for a ship they said. Cripes, looks like." Felix had said that with a little concentration, I could develop selectivity. I needed it now. I strained to filter the static, catch the words: . handle him?" Carbone looked my way again. "Can a kid handle a lollipop?" "Okay. Look." The voice was clearer now... lousy local cops... we turn this guy in... reward peanuts... their problem. We need hands, we work this boy... get there... Stateside cops... a nice piece of change..." "I see what you mean, Skipper," Carboni said. He had a corner of his mouth lifted to show me a smile that I might have found reassuring if I'd been a female crocodile. "Get him down below. Anchors up in an hour and a half. Shake it up." "Leave it to me, Skipper." Carboni hung up, swung around to give me the full face smile. The bridgework wasn't so expensive after all, just old style removable plates. "Well, I decided to give you a chance, Jones," he croaked. "You're on. You'll sign papers in the morning." "Hey, okay if he helps me out in the hot-room and stuff?" Joel enquired. He sounded like a ten-yearold asking for a puppy. Carboni thrust out his lips, nodded. "All right, Jones; for now, you help the dummy. Take the flop next to his." "By the way, where's this tub headed?" I asked. "Jacksonville. Why? You choosy or something?" "If I was, would I be here?" C arboni snorted. "Anchors in in an hour." He leveled the eye on Joel. "Get moving," he barked. "What do you think this is, a rest home for morons?" "Come on." Joel tugged at my arm. I followed him out, along corridors to a door. He opened it, flipped on a light, showed me a room identical with his own except that it lacked the plaster saint and the hooked rug. He opened the locker, tossed sheets and a blanket on the bed. I pulled off my wet jacket. Joel puckered his mouth, looking at me. "Hey, Jones, you better get Doc to fix them cuts you got." I sat on the bunk. I felt weak suddenly, sucked as dry as a spider's dinner. There was a humming in the back of my head, and my face felt hot. I pulled the sodden makeshift bandage from the arm the dogthing had chewed. There were four deep gouges, half a dozen shallower ones -- all inflamed, swelling. The arm was hot and painful. "Can you get me some antiseptic and tape?" I asked. IF "Huh?" Joel grunted. "Is there a first-aid kit around?" Joel pondered, then went into the corridor, came back with a bluepainted metal box. In it I found a purple fluid which bubbled when I daubed it on my wounds. Joel watched, fascinated. At my request he applied some to l he cuts on my back, working with lotal concentration, his mouth hanging open. If he saw the glint of metal filaments in the torn skin he made no comment. I folded gauze; Joel helped me tape it in place. When we finished, he stood back, smiling. Then he frowned. Hey, Jones. How come you didn't get Doc to fix you up?" "I'll be okay," I said. Joel nodded as though I had clarified a difficult point. He looked at me, frowning. He was thinking again. "How's come Carboni's scared of you?" he asked. "He's not scared of me, Joel," I said. "He took a shine to me on sight." Joel thought that one over. "Yeah," he said. "But look; we got stuff we got to do. We got to get a move on." I stood up, acutely aware of fatigue, and wounds, and a sensation similar to a ticking bomb behind my eyes. Felix's post-hypnotic anesthetic had been a big help while it lasted, but the withdrawal symptoms evened the score. "I want to go up on deck a minute," I said. Joel blinked, followed me as I retraced the path along which I had come half an hour earlier. I stepped out onto the deck, shivered in the wet clothes as the freshening wind hit me. There were no lights on the shore opposite. Half a mile to the left, there was a faint gleam from the windows of beach shacks; farther along, the great arc of the dredged harbor was a line of jewels against the dark night. I tensed the eye squint mucsfes, saw the black water snap into gray misty clarity. On its surface, nothing stirred. I attuned my hearing to pick up the softest of night sounds. There were the thousand pings and thumps from the ship, the creak of the anchor cables, and the crump and hiss of the distant surf. If the demons were close, they were well hidden. For the moment, it seemed, I was safe. I was. I wasn't so sure about the world. On sale at all newsstands! IF  Short Story He searched the stars for a perfect race -- and found what perfection really is! T he largest of the symmetroids sat down. And, in an order that was just far enough off simultaneity for a very attentive observer to notice the sequence, the others followed him. To call it "sitting down" involved giving the phrase a much wider than usual meaning. But Streeve was by now quite used to employing the patterns of his native language in novel ways, in order to guide his thought along the behavior types of the symmetroids. "Sitting down" usually involves bending of certain limbs, jerky movements of the rest of the body and a sudden halt as the sitting down member hits the sitting down surface. But the symmetroids seemed to compress themselves, rather like a large balloon letting out half its air. Or else it was as if gravity had suddenly doubled, so that each part of their bodies -- twice as heavy as it had been before -- concertinaed against the part below it. The general impression, however, wasn't really one of air escaping, or of weight increasing. It was simply of their taking up a resting, non-mobile position: and that was why Streeve called it "sitting down". He checked the time and made an entry in his notebook. Then whilst the people were eating, he went over the day's route and compared it with the corresponding day of the last cycle. That was quite unnecessary, since he remembered the landmarks and resting places in great detail -- he had been past them so many times that it would be impossible not to. But Streeve was well trained. He had been taught that efficient observing is wasted without detailed recording. A note book and sharp pencil were always in his hand. For the first time in thirty years of field work, Streeve was restless. He had only ten notebooks left, out of an original five hundred. Yet he had nowhere near enough data to return home and write his thesis. It was painful to review the changing moods of his time on the symmetroids' planet, and he indulged in this pain too often for his own liking. When he and the nineteen other young anthropologists of his class had been given a final briefing they were warned that it was unusual to discover a suitable race in under three years. Even after finding one, seven years was thought a reasonable time for a complete survey of their habits and tastes, and a description of the language. But Streeve ran across the symmetroids in the first week on his assigned continent. As he began preparations for establishing communication his mood had been one of exultation. I t had been made plain to Streeve's class that the first suitable people they came across were to be their object of study. No one was allowed to search for a second group if, for example, the one first encountered presented difficulties of communication. So that it was particularly unfortunate, in view of Streeve's lack of results, that the symmetroids were plainly quite suitable for field study. They certainly had some sort of social organization. A different symmetroid was likely to sit down first each night. But several years of observation had established that this was by random choice out of probabilities strictly assigned to every member of the race. Streeve had arranged the symmetroids along a hierarchy of importance, according to the size of each one's probability rating. This correlated with the part different symmetroids played in varous ceremonies and rites. For instance, each symmetroid mated with a frequency that was determined by its importance. Or at least he assumed they were mating when two of the people juxtaposed their symmetrical bodies and began rotating them in opposite directions, always touching each other, so that the larger, of the pair moved around the smaller one. (There could be no strict division of the sexes since the smaller in one instance of mating was often the larger in another.) They moved faster and faster until eventually all Streeve could see was a rotating elliptical blur. Then, as they slowed down again, he would gradually be able to make out three revolving bodies: a larger going around a smaller as before, but now a third, infant symmetroid moving in figure-ofeight fashion around and between the two original bodies. And they seemed to have some means of communicating with each other. If .?. symmetroid in the rear suddenly stopped -- Streeve still had no idea what the reason for this could be -- the leaders would immediately return and, by grouping around the ailing member, presumably do what was needed to cure him. It had taken some time for Streeve to notice that they never "turned around" when they went back to help a colleague (it was the only time they ever did go back for anything). Or rather, they never "rotated" : Streeve decided that "turn round" was inapplicable to a people who had no front or back or sides, but whose bodies were made up of a number of circular rings, varying inches in diameter and piled to a height of up to ten feet. Streeve was still as far away as he had ever been from finding out how they communicated. But the more he thought about it the more he accepted this, and was surprised that no anthropologist had ever experienced difficulty of this kind before. They might use sounds that were outside his threshhold of hearing: or light signals in the ultraviolet or infra-red ranges: or else some form of telepathy. He inclined towards the last alternative, once his hypothesis about their direction of movement had been checked and verified. The symmetroids always moved along together, in a straggly line which would certainly have some definitive criterion determining each one's position in it -- but whatever this was, Streeve had yet to work out. The leading symmetroid seemed to move toward the direction in which there were the least number of trees; the direction in which movement would be easiest. There was only one kind of plant on the continent, and Streeve was aware that he was extending the usual meaning of the word "tree" by applying it in this context. But the term seemed less unsuitable than any other for the flat-topped, telegraph-pole-like growths, with rings that looked like long-play records of different sizes growing symmetrically out of their stems. The "trees" occurred in any sort of pattern: in round clumps, in straight lines, in six-pointed star designs, or just individually, with no obvious shape to their distribution. B y exercising what Streeve liked to think was a "radar sense," the symmetroids always moved towards the most open ground, the direction in which they would have most freedom of movement. Their course was continually changing, as the possibilities in front of them altered, so that they appeared at first sight to be moving in a random, drunken wind. If necessary, they would presumably be able to return the way they had come in the event of encountering an impenetrable cul-de-sac; so that they never need stop or bump into anything. But the trees were never very thick, and during Streeve's IF thirty years of study a complete turn-about with the interesting question of instantaneous change of leader -- had never occurred. When he first hit upon the "moving in ijiost open direction" hypothesis, after seven-and-a-ha!f years, Josei Streeve had made the first of a series of widely scattered and quite unscientific comments in his notebook: This race is surely more perfect than any other known to us. Their life is quite systematic, completely determined and yet, at a guess, entirely satisfying. Now they were eating. Or at least Streeve called it eating. The biggest circle of a symmetroid body was about halfway up and every evening, after they had been sitting for a few minutes, each would spurt a fountain of some liquid from the whole circumference of the largest ring into a gap which opened around the third-totopmost ring. It was easy to see that the same two rings were involved in each case -- although each symmetroid had a total of seventynine rings -- because of their coloring. The large feeder circle was a dirty yellow, the same color as the trees, and the fed ring was pure blue, in contrast to the mingled shades of red and brown that covered the rest of their bodies. Mainly, Streeve called it "eating" because of the other function of the yellow ring. Every morning the symmetroids would rise in a body, and each approach a different tree. Two of them would never choose the same tree: Streeve recognised the basis of allocation to be such that the total distances moved by the symmetroids to their individual trees should be minimum. Once each was under its tree (getting there was no difficulty, since the lowest branch on any tree was at about twelve feet) it rotated quickly around it, so that the symmetroid's widest ring always extended for about two inches under the tree's lowest branch. Between the sixth and nineteenth revolutions a liquid sprayed down from the tree into a cavity around the top edge of the yellow circle. T he time that elapsed between their sitting down and eating (which they did from a sitting-down position) varied from one minute to over two hours. Streeve had yet to find a formula to explain the interval although he felt sure he should be able to. Although they did not sit down quite simultaneously, he had never been able to detect the minutest difference in their feeding times. Similarly, although one of them would get up a fraction of a second before the others in the morning (and it was never the one that had sat down first the previous evening) they would gather their food at precisely the same moment. Sometimes they slept -- or at least remained motionless -- for three hours, sometimes for sixteen. The only sure feature was that they stopped before sundown and rose after dawn -- once only three seconds after, but the following day five hours later. At first Streeve tended to oversleep, and had once or twice spent days looking for them. But with practice he woke after three hours, and every half-hour after that, even though it was now unnecessary. He still could not predict to the slightest extent what time they would stand up and begin moving: but he knew exactly the course they would take. I n Streeve's fourteenth year he had the glimmering of another hypothesis. His excitement compelled another unscheduled entry: If I am right, the ultimate link is in place. This race must be considered the most perfect people known to man. It took five more years to be certain, and six more after that before he wrote : They are I am convinced, that the symmetroids moved along a closed path, so that they completed a circuit, and passed the same landmarks, every two hundred and seven days. As far as he could remember, and from the notes he had made, this had been the case since his ninth year. He was almost certain that before then they had not been on this circuit. He could remember a desert that took fifteen days to cross (he called it a "desert" for want of a better term, since there were only a quarter as many trees as usual), several clumps of plants shaped like swastikas, and a large hole in the ground which, fortuitously, had lain just off the symmetroids' course. He could not be quite sure of all this, for he had still been puzzled by their seemingly inexplicable wandering course for most of the initial nine years, and the written record sometimes made little sense now. But if he was right, if... If l am right, then these people have attained complete perfection only during my time here. For just twenty-one. years their lives have beer absolutely predestined the predestination being determined by their own past behavior! For although an open course can lead into a closed one, a closed one can only be followed -- forever. However, after thirty years, Streeve was restless. He had been totally unable to communicate with the symmetroids. If he approached them he seemed merely to be regarded as another plant, and their course altered accordingly. They could, if they wished, move faster than him, so that he had yet to touch one. By a carefully planned maneuver he had once forced them to change their leader and almost reverse direction for a few yards. But that was very little to show for half a lifetime of attempted contact. Should be return home? Certain failure in his Ph. D. would mean permanent drafting to the underwater army. Or was it better to stay on here, to fill the last ten notebooks as slowly as he could, and hope for an earthquake -- although he had been told they were non-existent on this planet -- or a forest fire -- although it rained every night and the trees never dried out -- to alter the status quo, and give him a new opportunity for communicating with the symmetroids. Streeve's speculations were interrupted. The people had risen, led by an eight-foot high symmetroid whose probability of standing up first was held by Streeve -- on the. basis of ten samples of a thousand days each -- to be only one in one-hundredand-thirty-nine. Their food gathered, Ihey set off along the usual path at a standard three miles per hour. Streeve followed, still half thinking about returning at once -- he had not seen his transit craft since landing but was confident he could get back to it in fifty days. He noticed a star-shaped clump of trees ahead that rather looked as if it had one arm a little shorter than the other, something he couldn't remember having seen around here before. But the trees were thick enough in this area for this not to be surprising. In fact, there was little to choose between several different directions at this stage of the circuit. And he thought he could feel -- or maybe he just imagined -- that the leader's pace slowed a little, perhaps as he took longer to select the most open course. I t wasn't until three hours later that Streeve became worried. The course seemed unfamiliar, and the pace had definitely slowed now, as the leader found each direction almost as completely wooded as every other. He cursed his slow thinking -- dimmed by his years on this planet -- for not having realized that a tree could fall down. The optimum need not necessarily remain constant from circuit to circuit. Now the circle was broken! But the symmetroids were as impassive as ever. Had they even realized that they were on a closed course? Streeve had intuitively guessed so, but his knowledge of their intelligence was slight, and he had no real reason for this belief. And even now, the hoped-for communcation. did not materialize. For the first time in years Streeve's mind was racing. If they were the perfect people, how could they have ceased to be perfect? For ceasing to be perfect is an imperfection, which perfect people could never possess. Yet they had been perfect, as he understood perfection, and had now paten tty ceased to be completely perfect. How could this be? As he pondered the paradox, Streeve followed the people through a crack in the wall of trees. If this proved a dead end they would for the first time have to turn around But the path continued, and Streeve plodded after. Until both trees and earth suddenly stopped before a type of terrain that Streeve had never seen on this planet. As he watched, still struggling with the paradox of perfection, the people moved on --  moved smoothly into the sea. Streeve hesitated for a moment. Then, before following them, he had time to scribble a final epigram on the last page of notebook number four-hundred-and-ninety. You may not believe it, but there are still some people who think it was wrong to award him a posthumous Ph.D. for a single sentence: The only perfect  people are IF  Novelette i : A man could defeat a soulless machine every time. But what if they were not -- soulless ? T hey found a spot in the paddock area to park the station wagon, and carefully rolled the scarred old racer off its trailer. Ross and Gray eased it to the track gate while Ken took the VW bus around behind the pits. The savage sounds of racing engines raked the day and a fever burned in the air -- engines, cars, competition. Speed. Two grinning marshals joked through their inspection as Ross and Gray stood statuelike. Like two old reprobates and a weathered dowager at a teenage brawl, Ross thought. They were finally passed onto the course and began pushing the crimPrm jn car down the long pit lane, jleekei and shinier cars lashed past, 'and, between the cries of their passing, came the sideline comments. What the hell is that? Maybe a replica of an old accident. A Ferrari! It's a damned old F err aril Great Ghost! Are they going to race it? It must be on loan from the Italian Museum of Antique Arts. They did not bother to glance aside. Two battered old men pushing a battered old coupe; they had heard it all before. Many times. Too many times. They stopped in their pit area and Gray leaned over the roof to catch his breath. Ken had backed the bus in close behind the barrier and already raised the antenna. He swung open the rear door and turned, frowning, rubbing his hands on his hips. "Can we go? I've got a greengo on all power circuits." Gray hunched into the engine compartment while Ross checked tires and fuel. Ken leaned over the barrier. "Okay?" Gray slammed the lid and buttoned it up. "Fire it," he grunted. "Nothing's wrong that hasn't always been. You say all your little tubes and trinkets are warm?" "There aren't any damn tubes and you know it." Ken slammed into the back of the bus. Gray chuckled. "Boy's spooky today." Ross reached into the cockpit and flicked the switch. "He's lost his practice time," he said. "Can't blame him. He still takes us seriously." A glance flickered between them and Ross turned toward the bus. Ken was barely visible through the open rear door. Ross nodded, and Ken flicked switches in the bus. The Ferrari skirred, grumped and fired. Ross made a stirring motion with one hand; the engine raised its pitch, warming and smoothing. Gray opened the bonnet again and leaned over the rumbling engine. Fie made the barest adjustment to three of the carbs and nodded to himself. Ross raised a fist and twisted it. Thunder rolled and heads turned to stare from the other pits. Gray looked up and grinned. Ross toned to Ken again and made a steering motion with both hands. In the cockpit, the blank staring manikin copied Ross's action. Ross jabbed a fist in front of him. The manikin dropped a stiff hand and jerked through the gears. They raked slightly. Ross frowned and glanced at Gray, who just shook his head and slammed the bonnet. Ross raised his fist and motioned as if cracking a whip. The car snarled forward and stopped abruptly. "At least it can stop," Gray frowned. A scowling marshal edged past the bus and scrambled over the barrier. He glared at them, at the car, and at his clipboard. "I'm Crandall, pit marshal. Want to see those brakes!" IF Ro;s looked at Ken and whipped Inhand again. hard. The coupe squealed down the strip and slammed to a stop. Tire smoke drifted away. Crandall I I owned again at his board. "You Ross Eliot?" Ross nodded. Crandall blinked at him for a moment and referred again to his board. "And your operator is Kennith Manning. His license?" "Inside the side door of the bus." "Urn. You're late, Eliot. Is Manning familiar with this course?" "He's raced it before. Anything else on your mind?" "Well, everything is in order, I suppose. You're cleared. I just can't understand why -- " Ross raised a hand and chopped il down and the Ferrari smothered them in an avalanche of sound. It roared down the pit lane and onto Ihe course like an unleashed banshee, leaving a wake of craning heads and muttering voices. Ross nnd Gray frowned after it. The gears had raked again. Crandall's mouth was still open. Ross left him with his clipboard and turned to Gray. "That same damn thing." Gray shrugged. "Well, it's not clutch dragging. I promise you that!" Ross eased over the barrier and in the side door of the bus. Ken was seated at the console. His hands flicked over the board and his eyes never left the wide TV screen. Ross watched the road reel out of the depths of the screen and blur under the smooth red nose and fender swells. No sound came from the console; only the cry of cars passing the pit area, and that sound did not fit the action on the screen. Ross thought again how much this was like a movie rattier than the real thing... and not a very good movie at that. A corner came unwinding under the Ferrari's nose. Ken shifted, and Ross frowned. "It's still raking." "I know," Ken nodded. "I'm getting a red light but it's just a flicker. Watch." His fingers danced on the board and the scene lurched slightly as the car shifted. A tiny light blinked red under transmission. "Can you match you rpm's better?" "I try." Ken shook his head. "But you know -- " "Yeah, I know. A surge of electricity is different from a hand." He slapped Ken on the shoulder and helped Gray unload tires and fuel cans. "Take a look at the clutch servo when it comes in." Gray threw him a searing look. "A man wouldn't even need a clutch!" "How much time we got?" Ken yelled. "About a half hour of practice. Maybe less." II H e walked, hands in pockets, behind the pits and thought of Ken and Gray. And of himself. They were quite a group. Two old # fire eaters and a young one. Ken could unleash his flame through the console, and with such a blaze of skill and devotion that the old Ferrari could still sing the high notes and earn her way; not winning -- it had been a long time since she'd led the way home -- but close enough to finance another race. Barely. And another. Always one more. And Gray and himself: they were too old for flames; they just seethed along. Two old bastards. No -- make that three. The growling old Ferrari qualified too. Three old zombies still in there cluttering up the course. The ancient Triumvirate, long fallen and lacking the sense to crawl away. But that was the way with Oid Bastardsc too cranky to quit, too mean to die, too angry to know better. That was the way when the fire outlasted its function. You just seethed. He passed slowly behind the pit areas, crews feverish in the last intense moments of practice: Lafitte, Apache, Lotus, Volga, Porsche, #BM-GM, Abarth, Honda, Coventry, GE-Ford. There were a few independents -- as themselves -- but with cars that showed no aging, in appearance or in name. And so many new names since the # "man ban." But few of the old racing companies had stayed. Some had faded quietly; some not. Enzo Ferrari had not. He had gathered all his cars he could and sent them and the factory into the sky over Modena. "No car of mine shall be subject to this shame," he said then. But one car was -- Ross's, because Rosi had been a Ferrari team driver, an had hidden his car that thunderin day. And now was beginning to fe the edge of regret. And shame. He shouldered through the crow to the fence beyond the pits. Honda shrieked past with rpm's t cower dogs for miles around. It shu off for Corner One, squealed its downshift and sang around an away. The crowd chattered in i echo. Like a gleaming green pro jectile, a Lotus arced into the cor ner. It was chased by two Fords an a Volga, servo-manikins jerkin their downshifts. Another Lotus slip streamed a Coventry past the pit The Coven went wide and the Lotu leaped smoothly inside the corne and came out first. Voices laugh and elbows nudged. Lotus was th Big Name now. Lotus was the ca to catch. He smiled to himself That hadn't always been true. Ther had been another name -- once. The crowd ruffled and heads turned, a silence came and eyes squinted up the long straight past the pits where the South Turn opened. Ah yes. The new challenger for the Lotus crown. They moaned down the straight in close V formation, less than an inch apart at # mph; three daz zling streaks of white that snapped crisp, simultaneous shifts, curved through Corner One and left tire smoke and six black scars on the pavement behind them. Grandstanding, Ross thought. They even have a showoff circuit. But there were cheers and cries of excitement around him, and, suddenly, he felt very old. Old and empty. No, not empty. Old and angry. Old because he was; angry because this sleek people's imagination and enthusiasm. with a puppet in it, more than a machine on the end of a transmitter. nothing but monitors. The car was in command of itself. Machinery and electricity combined to drive itself, GM. The ultimate racer, they called it; machinery beyond man's mistakes. Gray had another name for it. A familiar old wail rode up the sky, a commanding bellow that brought a smile to his craggy face and peering faces from the crowd. There! How many men and machines had paid tribute to that voice? It lanced past the pits in a touch of thunder and curved for the corner. Gears crashed in the downshift and it slithered for a second, then pulled through and away. Ross's smile faded. A bad shift and too much brakes. Ken was getting jarred by the gear rake. Voices hummed behind him. Holy Robe! Was that a Ferrari? Yeah. It's in the program. Ross Eliot! You're kidding. No! Look! Ross Eliot: owner. I'll be damned! Old Angry Man Eliot. I thought he was dead. Might as well be if that antique is the best he can do. Ross edged his way to the rear, one thought boring through him: go home, Eliot. Get out. They don't race your way any more. You've provided comedy relief long enough. You're dead. H e walked back slowly, listening to the snarling cars and his snarling mind. It was going to rain. Naturally. Who ever heard of a race without rain? But it would give them an edge. A slight edge. Their servo sat in a closed coupe and its lenses stayed dry and clean, while most of the modern cars were open and the servo lenses subject to everything the course had to offer. And in the rain it would cost them. Pit stops for wiping lenses! A slender figure stepped from the vehicles behind the Lotus pit and Ross put his head down, pretending not to notice. But the clipped, mocking voice halted him. "Hello there, Eliot." He looked up. Finely cut face, crinkled eyes, neat mustache, careless hair: "dashing" the press called him, and managed to overlook the arrogant curl in the corner of his mouth. "Hello, Stewart. How fly the Loti?" It was an old joke -- but then so was he. "Rather well, as usual. I see you're still coaxing mileage from the Rampant Black Horse. Not sounding awfully well in the gears, is it?" "We're cracking walnuts for lunch. Join us. I'll save you the shells." He shouldered past. God, what he would give for a Ferrari in his hands and a fast course and a field of Lotus to pass. What he wouldn't give for -- for anything right now. Ken sprinted from their pit area as he approached. Gray following as fast as he could. Ken saw him and wheeled. "I baled it. Ross. Missed third and Warren Corners." "Okay. Get back on the board to drive it in. Gray and I'll go out and have a look. It'll run, won't it?" The look on Ken's face was like a bullet in his chest. "It'll start -- but I've got a full red light on the transmission." "We'll take the trailer then." He paused, frowning at the gray sky. Today? The last broken leg for the Black Horse? He looked back to Ken. "Hell, boy! Quit looking like you just shot your father. We've been through the tules before." "Yeah, but not with a bunged box. Hadn't I better come in case we have to -- have to haul it in?" Like pronouncing a death in the family, Ross thought. He unleashed a long breath and nodded, and felt something shudder loose inside. God. it was a helpless feeling to be out of luck, out of time, out of place. Ill I t wasn't really hurt. Another scarred fender would hardly be noticed. Another dent in the air scoop made little difference. The wheels were still true. The front end was straight. The sump was sand polished but whole. It was still a fighting machine. But today was the day. No more "one more race." Rain rattled on the roof of the VW. Ross finished and sat staring at Ken. "So that's the last act, boy. E can't even pay what I owe you." Ken shook his head, gazing at , the rain-shiny racer on its trailer behind their pit. "Just one rotten, stupid, damned solenoid!" Gray snorted and juggled a screwdriver from hand to hand. "Just a solenoid they don't even make any more!" "If we could only replace -- " "Quit dreaming, boy," Gray said. "There isn't a twenty-four volt system left in the business." A slim figure plunged through the rain and grinned at them through the open side doors. "Well. Choke up on the walnuts, did it?" Ross glanced up. Yes, the smile was there. "Clutch solenoid." "Oh. Too bad. Not like the old days, is it? Are you dead?" "We're dead," Ross answered. we?" "A damn shame, that. There's nothing you can do? I mean, a clutch bugger is such a bloody little thing." "It's enough." They listened for a moment to the calling of the small classes. Eugines growled in the pits. Stewart  spoke again. "Well, that's the bitch of it, isn't j it? I don't suppose we could cobble I something together. We have servos j that -- " " "Rack it, Mr. Lotus." But Gray's IF voice had lost its edge. "That's a car out there, not one of your animated toys. We couldn't convert it in a month and you know it!" Stewart gave a brittle laugh. "You're right, of course, but that's the running of it, isn't it? I mean, you've had your day, haven't you?" Ross stared at Stewart for a long time before he spoke. "Stewart, I've often wondered why you talk in questions," he said quietly. "And I wonder if it isn't that you need the assurance of agreement. So I'll agree with you this time. Yes, we've had our day. And it was a day you know very little about. It took men to match the machines then, Stewart." Stewart flushed. "Times change, Angry Man. Racing is -- " "Racing is a little girl's business now. Playtime. An abortion born of electric trains and 'Father Knows Best.' And you're proud of it, aren't you, Stewart? You were a loud voice in the bringing of the ban. Loud and in a position to bray in the right ears. Why? What made you and the others push that through?" Stewart paused. "Well, it's obvious, isn't it? Men were dying! Needlessly! Mangled in the wreckage of their cars. Stupid deaths. What other reasons are necessary?" R oss gazed away at the drizzling rain and smiled. "I remember a young man with a new license and a new car. I remember how he managed to blunder every race he entered. Strange. I understand he was a real ace with little electric cars on a little road racing course." He glanced back at Stewart. "I wonder what was lacking in him that he couldn't race a real car. I wonder why he felt he had to protect the lives of his fellow men. Such consideration, Stewart. I am honored. If it hadn't been for you -- and the others too, of course -- I might be dead. I should thank you." Stewart stiffened. His voice became even more clipped. "Yes. I think we have saved some lives." "Saved, Stewart? Or taken away?" "I -- don't understand what you mean by that." "I know you don't." A harsh edge came into Ross's voice. "Run off now, Stewart. Go play with your toys. I'm tired of being protected." One side of Stewart's mouth lifted in a cold smile. "Too bad you couldn't have kept racing, Eliot. You could have died a hero instead of becoming the pathetic thing you are now." Ross nodded. "True. Perhaps I'll drive today." "Do that! Make a complete ass of yourself!" Stewart spun and strode into the rain, then stopped. "You were a great driver, Eliot. Too bad that people shan't remember you as one." He swung away and was gone and no one spoke in the bus. The gray rain drummed on the roof and Ross stared at his cold and lonely racer. What is it? he thought. What is it that links a man with the pulse and thunder of a car until his whole life is in that machine? That machine there. That low, mean missile with a rearing black horse as its emblem. A car he had lived with and in and around for too many years. A car that was almost legend now. Ferrari. And eleven years of laughter and ridicule had never seen it finish last, not fail to finish. Until today. And today it would not even start. It was over. The last Ferrari was through. And what now? The museum at Watkins Glen # The car. waxed and poised on hidden blocks, marked and scarred and beautiful? Himself and Gray, waxed and poised on hidden rods, marked and scarred and ugly. And the neat sign could read: Last Ferrari. Last driver and mechanic. V#. # bhp, # mph. Ross "Angry Man" Eliot ; World Champion, #, #. Gray " Even Angrier " Willard; mechanic and Old Bastard. And there could be more. Much more. Little awe-sparking notes to urge the grunts of wonder from the Sunday families. Broke course record at Schring five times in succession without brakes or clutch. Broke my little finger too in a bad shift. Won # LeMans after passing through an eight-car tangle without touching a thing. Touched the brake. Once. Got nickname at Nurburg Ring after hurling his broken clutch pedal at the pit crew and going on to win German GP of #. Missed them, though Oh yes, they could tell it. Tell the big and tell the little. Give them all the facts and features. Play the roar and make them shudder. Show the films and have them wonder. But they could never touch the truth of what is was to be this man and this machine coupled in an act of living, how it was to ride in thunder with the touch of lightning underfoot and the rim of life in both hands. They could never tell. And the people would never know. He gazed at the car crouching on its trailer like a great poised cat. His machine. His mistress. And the cold goggling manikin bolted in the cockpit like an alien violator. His anger flamed. He turned to Gray and nodded. Gray smiled for the first time in years. "About time, Angry Man." IV K en's voice was low and feverish in the closed bus. "You're crazy, Ross! You're crazy! You'll be blackflagged out of racing for life. You!" "It has happened to better men. Some of them thought it was the only honorable thing to do." "But you haven't driven in over ten years. No one can just jump into it after that -- not even you." IF "I remember where the gears are, boy. Yank on that other leg. It's caught on a cable." They were stripping the manikin of its coveralls. Ken exploded, "Kee-rist! You call prowling around a few courses in the dawn's early light driving? I mean racing, Ross. I mean boring out there and working it!" Ross looked up, his voice flat. "Kenny, don't tell me about racing." They stared a moment longer, and Ken glanced away. They both jumped like cats when the door banged open. Gray crowded in. shaking his head. "That Crandall," he snorted. "He came snooping by and asked if we were still running. I told him, 'Hell yes. We got a replacement part.' And he acted real disappointed. Watched me clear the pedals and then took off. The man's got eyes like a truck's got wings." Ken suddenly snapped his fingers. "The video! How can I fake it without video? What if he peeks in here and I'm diddling in front of a blank screen?" "Good thought, Ken-boy." Gray reached for the manikin's head with its two sparkling eyes. He pulled a screwdriver from a hip pocket and started taking the skull apart. "I guess we can bale together some kind of a lash-up." Ross slipped his legs into the coveralls, speaking quietly. "You don't have to play the game, Ken. You know that." "Yeah, I know." "It's a lifetime ban for all concerned. You'll never get so much as a pit pass for the rest of your life." "I know." Gray plucked an eye tube from the skull, untangled its leads and started on the other. "You're foolish, Ken-boy," he said. "It doesn't matter with us. Ross will probably slaughter himself, and I don't know any better. But you've got a good future in this business. You can play that damn TV and piano better than anyone I've seen. Ross could get you a seat in a second." Ken shook his head. "We might just pull it off." "Dream and scheme," Gray chuckled. "Nobody that's ever tried it has pulled it off. It's a last act, boy." He removed the other tube, rammed them both in a pocket and slipped out. The smaller classes had started and engines screamed through the rain. A Honda squalled by in the lead, followed, it seemed, by every fighting animal in the world. Ross lit a cigarette. His hands were shaking. The door yanked open again. They jumped. Crandall stood scowling from the shelter of a large umbrella. "Your mechanic says you're still running!" "You're damn right! And if you slam in here like that when my operator is on the board I'll ram your clipboard right down your bloody throat! This is a private vehicle." C xrandall sniffed, glared at the  sprawling servo-manikin and slammed the door. "Just put up with him the best you can, I guess," Ross said. Ken leaned forward. "Have we any chance at all?" "Chance of what? Pulling it off? Getting into the money?" "Either. Both." "Not much, no. Neither. You've seen how the marshals swarm the pits after a race for what they call 'inspection?' Have you ever won dered why a car should be inspected after a race? They're still looking for men drivers, boy. And they find them once in a while; old fools like me who think the old days were kind of fun, who don't appreciate being kept from hurting ourselves. As far as dodging that and getting into the money -- mouse guano! I always held that a man could beat a servo, but I don't know now. These new outfits are fast! Did you at Sebring this spring? It takes a big bale of machinery to do that, boy." "But the Ferrari did # -- " "At Bonneville, Ken. Not on a race circuit." He was silent for a moment, turning his old, battered helmet in his hands. "And pulling it off or placing isn't really the point." "What is, Ross? You're not doing it just for the hell of it." Cars snarled past, downshifting, lining for Corner One. Ross raised his head and listened. Two racers passed, one holding a second longer before shifting. He smiled. "Perhaps that's it. Just for the hell of it. Damned if I do..." He paused, squinting through a rainflecked window at the Ferrari, bright and shiny now from the wet. "And surely damned if I don't." The door banged open again and Gray leaned in. "May God damn Crandall to everlasting hell! Try your screen." Ken spun to the board and snapped a switch. The screen blinked on showing the blunt rear of the station wagon. "I put them in the air scoop. Told Crandall I was fixing a leak in the oil cooler." Rain followed the lines of a grin down his cheeks. "He wanted to know why the manij kin was out. I told him it had to go potty. I swear, the man has never I seen a real racer in his life! He asked, 'What's that lever sticking up from the floor?' Judas! I should have said it was the crank that wound the spring." Ross grinned as he pulled on his helmet. "You can go to hell for lying too." "I'll race you there. Let's go before Old Peek and Peck comes back. I want to see if you remember how to start it." Ross pulled on his gloves and adjusted his goggles. "Must cover my beady little eye tubes," he grinned. "Better cover your big mouth too." Gray grabbed his feet. "Grab its bead, Ken-boy. We'll plug it in and see if it works." "Jees!" Ken grunted. "It's gotten a lot heavier." "And limp too. For godsake, Ross, stiffen up! Who the hell ever heard of a limp servo?" IF "You think I'm limp now, you old bastard, wait'll you cut me out of that machine." H e sat stiff behind the wheel, and not simply from imitating a servo. He was like a painting, incredibly old and brittle and not very well done at that. The car was close around him. The water-smooth hood and fenders curved familiarly in front, the seat was firm and holding, the wheel hard in his hands. But he felt wrong. Alien. Not a part of anything here. And with the rain whispering softly on the top and the cold mist on his face from the open side window -- it came to him why. He was the only man in this long row of quietly waiting cars. The only touch of life among this machinery. And it was a cold lonely feeling. The chill loneness of an intruder in an enemy land. And that made him angry too. Why should he be a stranger here? This was his country, wasn't it? A car, a course, a competition! But the thought stood close behind him and would not leave. He glared at Gray poised across the track in his circle; a travesty of a Le Mans start in which the mechanics ran to start the cars. The old goat will catch pneumonia, he thought. No hat! No raincoat. Just grizzled old Gray frowning in the rain, coveralls soaked and plastered to his wiry frame. He swivelled his eyes down the course. Crowds jammed the fences under a mushroom forest of umbrellas and makeshift canopies. A strange breed, he thought, mobbed together in the rain to watch a pack of cars fight. And what would they think if they knew a man was sitting in one of those cars? Would they be on his side? Would they be cheering him? Yes, he thought so. And that was a warm feeling; to have a crowd on your side. He had a sudden impulse to move, to show he was human, but he didn't. The cold manikins down the line stared straight and statuelike, and he copied them. Mist curled on Corner One and the pavement gleamed like polished glass. He ran the course again in his mind. He had raced it before the ban, but that had been long ago. Too long. Back when he was -- His blood leaped and his hands tensed. The count had started. He watched Gray crouch -- then spring, running like a boy. The long line of figures dashed across the wet track. Gray slipped and nearly went down, arms waving, then skidded alongside and rammed an arm through the window. "Go break a leg," he breathed. Ross touched the starter. The big engine growled, roared, and he fired the Ferrari off the line, sliding slightly as he bent it down the track. And he smiled. Go break a leg! Go kill yourself. Into the tiger's mouth! Join the dead men! Dares from the days of TCs and Cad-Allards and big white Mercedes, the calls of a clan who ran for the joy of it. Old words. Foolish. But something old and foolish rides this course today V H e was first away and leaning into third going into Corner One, and his mirrors showed a raging flood of cars behind him. He caught fourth, skidded slightly on Corner Two, and dropped into fifth. His mirrors were crowded with headlights, airscoops, and flashing bodies. Well, let them come. If nothing more he'd lived the leap off the line again and been first into a race. nearly in its tailpipes. They seethed under the Pirelli Bridge, spray pluming behind them, and downshifted for the Dogleg. He snapped down to fourth, then raked third and swore. The Lotus went into the corner too fast. It slithered wide He made a try but the Lotus recovered and outpulled him going hadn't wavered a bit, and was already gone down the mile straight in a boiling steam of spray. He shifted up to fifth again, squinting into the Lotus's lashing past. Lord, they were fast! Like jets on a strafing run. He glanced working up with no more effort than a hot car in truck traffic. The Ferrari lurched and water roared underneath. There were pools on the pavement, invisible in the rain. A Ford sizzled past with a dark red Apache in its wake. Some old warning made him slow and pull far right without really knowing why, and there it was. Spray exploded under the Ford's nose and it disappeared for a second. The Apache dove into the wall of water then slashed across in front of him, spinning. The Ford plowed end for end into the infield. An old hack-chant chuckled in his ear: There are cool drivers and fool drivers, but not cool, fool drivers. Warren Corners were suddenly there and he was outside and out of position and out of luck. He noviced through the first hard left in a long chance for the right unless he backed through it. Damn. He dropped two gears and managed to leave the pavement in a straight line, barely clearing way for a Porsche and two big Hondas. The Ferrari bucked as it hit the dirt. He coaxed it around, carving long furrows in the grass and mud. He took out two bushes and a young tree, missed a rock and the fence, plowed through a shallow ditch and angled back to the course. Like trying to enter a freeway at five o'clock. He kept it rolling, edged into a clear spot and savagely worked his way up through the gears. Well, you old fool, he scathed himself, what are you doing out here? Forgot how to play Followthe-Leader? Apparently, but then he had always been the leader before. Then he smiled: I wonder how that looked on Ken's screen? A Lafitte passed, chased by a Coventry and a Lotus. And he was IF glad he was in a closed coupe. A game of "no touch tag" in a hurricane at # mph. How the devil could they see? He was having trouble enough, and their eye tubes were certainly no better than his eyes. The Lafitte pulled over in front of him and the Coventry passed it. Barely. In a crash of water, the Lafitte surged sideways and nudged the Lotus, and all he could see for a moment were headlights -- tailtwo cars like pinwheels on the road in front, spinning together and parts flying, and he was suddenly through between them. An Abarth behind him didn't make it. He followed the Coventry's line around the Little Hairpin, let a Volga by, then tailed it down the short straight and around the Big Hairpin. A Honda crowded close behind him going into the Esses. It stayed there, then pulled by on the straight. No fighting it. The old Ferrari was outclassed. Probably the smallest car here could fan him on the straights. T he Honda swerved ahead of him and he barely missed the Apache that was swung backwards on the pavement, then watched helplessly as the Honda rocketed headon into a Ford that was re-entering the course. He went under some of that. He tried to relax, remembering that no one was being killed and mangled. But old habits die hard. To him, cars meant men. South Turn curved underneath and opened into the pit straight. One lap down; ninety-nine to go. He relaxed a little. Let them traffic each other. He was out here in his car and that was all that mattered. It would be the last time in his life that anything mattered. Let the machines fight it out. Let the servos sweat... , Too bad they couldn't. The laps leafed away like pages of an old book. Long-forgotten things returned; the old reactions and techniques, once automatic, found themselves again. Like single instruments finding their place in an orchestral arrangement. He and his car were linking together again, slowly -- then stronger, as two people from old passion find themselves again: little by little, gradually responding. Reacting together. The rain had blown away, but the sky sulked gray and soggy. The course was still wet. It wasn't glassy; the Little Hairpin was the only dodgey spot where water pooled in the apex of the corner. Gray had propped a gas can up behind the barrier so that it could only be seen from the course. He had even found some chalk -- God only knew from where. Ross wondered if he hadn't been keeping it for just this moment. And the writing on the can read: #? Well, why not. Nineteenth was a comfortable position. Especially for two Old Bastards running more on anger than anything else. But he started edging up his lap times. Traffic had thinned and scattered. The opening bash, like something from an old, wildcat stock-car circus, had taken care of the rash operators. It was easy, he thought, to be rash at some quiet console. So you lost a car once in a while. So what? All you had to lose was your job -- not your life. There should be a feature of the consoles that when an operator bent a car -- two met ciless metal hands seized and broke the operator accordingly. Perhaps some flavor would return. But then the international committees would ponder this danger, judge it harmful and rule that servos must operate the boards. Mustn't let anyone be hurt. Naughty. Father knows best, you know. Mustn't do anything dangerous. Ross clamped his jaws and slashed through the Esses using every available inch of pavement. He was beginning to understand why the mountain climbers kept jumping their servos off the highest cliffs. Our Father, who knows best, you are a doddering old meddler! Modern racing or not, the old troubles were still there. The price of pushing machinery to its peak. There were nine cars in the pits with mechanics shouldered into engines. gearboxes, front ends, brakes; electricians into servos and consoles; some cars alone and lonely -- dead. On the course he had passed a Volga with crumpled nose and a bad problem with left corners. The course itself was sidelined with cars in various stages of disassembly. And he had the unique pleasure of seeing a servo psych out. A sleek Coventry had headed him into the Dogleg. Something had failed to dick, or had clicked too many times, or had clicked at the wrong time, or had been the wrong click altogether, and the machine had bolted from the course like a sudden coward, accelerating, spinning mud roostertails behind it. Fortunately for the spectators there was an old foundation there. Unfortunately for the Coventry. And he and the old warrior Ferrari had gone around and around, and growled and howled, and .remembered what it was to be alive. Ross Eliot is back, he grinned to himself. As much of him as will ever make it! A nother shower was ghosting in from the west. He noticed it as he moaned down the backstretch, taking Warren Corners in two linked arcs and nearly running over a Lafitte coming out. It tried hard to repass, but the Little Hairpin came up too soon. He sliced through the edge of the pool and pushed hard for the Big Hairpin. There was a glint of green ahead. He showed a cold smile and slammed through the Big Hairpin, the Esses and the .South Turn. The green Lotus was ahead on the pit straight, running behind a Porsche. And the Lafitte was no longer on his tail. He watched the shower barely touch the north end of the course as he came up the straight and into Corner One. He closed up on the Porsche and the Lotus coming under the Pirelli Bridge, and backed off for the Dogleg. The others didn't. n IF Too bad. he grinned. Tbe two cars fishtailed on the slick pavement. too fast and too far into the lenses see that shower? The Lotus left the corner sideways, blasted mud and destroyed itself around a tree. The Porsche held, but broadside and sliding. He passed it, torque up and a gear over. He smiled his way around. Not too bad for an old man. Perhaps not too old for a bad man. He drove harder, deeper into the corners, and felt the old elation of pushing into that dark land of limitations. Riding the edge, they used to call it. It was exploring. Crowding man and machine into that foggy unknown where only skill and judgment kept them alive, where there was no such thing as a small mistake. Racing . I But I'm slow, he thought, much too slow. In the old days the team manager would have yanked him off the course and given him hell for lugging the engine. Gray had the pit stop signal up as he came past the pits. He nodded automatically, then laughed at himself. Servos didn't nod! They may short out and smoke; they got jolted around in a fender bending contest; they sometimes whirled aloft in a sprawl of limbs and wires in an accident -- but nod? Never! Well -- hardly ever. He pulled over for the pit lane on the next lap. braked, geared down and stopped by Gray. And froze. Stewart and Crandall were stand,' ing by the bus just behind the bar-! rier. Stewart was smiling! Crandall was frowning. Ken slammed from the bus, jarred Stewart with a hard shoulder and vaulted the barrier. He started on a rear wheel while Gray dumped fuel into the five-inch filler. The car lurched on the jack. Ross stared straight ahead, hands clamped on the wheel. He heard Stewart laugh. "Well, why shouldn't it look like him? I have a servo that looks like me -- though I think mine is in better shape." Crandall said something that was covered by a passing car. Stewart laughed again. "Oh, some antiques are quite astonishing, aren't they? But it's pathetic when they're pressed into something beyond their usefulness." His voice seemed uncommonly loud, as if he were deliberately trying to reach Ross's ears. Gray blocked off the two men and fumbled inside the cockpit, checking Ross's "connections." "Looks like we sneaked out on the wife and got caught," he said in a low voice. "Crandall?" "Crandall doesn't know his behind from a brake disc. It's Stewart. He lounged in here with his catcurling grin and asked where you were. I told him you were suddenly taken ill. He said, 'He certainly has, hasn't he?' He must have spread it around. The other pits are watching you." "No black flag yet." "No one will tattle but Stewart, , IF I'm sure of that. But I think he's waiting for you to bash it." "Nice of him." "He said he always wondered what was the color of your blood." T he car jarred down from the jack and Ken was back over the barrier and into the bus. Gray stepped back, still blocking the two men. Ross fired the Ferrari into life and slammed it down the pit lane and onto the course. He hurled it through Corner One, down the short straight and through Comer Two. It squalled, held, and he screamed under Pirelli Bridge. So that was the game now! They had given him the stage for one last laugh, had they? He slashed through the Dogleg from outside to inside to outside on the bare brink of a wild slide and allowed himself a grim smile. That was a little better! The fire was back in the blaze again; Angry Man Eliot! That was what made him before: anger. A happy man couldn't be a racer. A happy man was a satisfied man, and a satisfied man had no business out here. He had been satisfied just to be in his car on the course -- and that was wrong for him. Out of character. All angry men managed a last, loud word. Perhaps his wouldn't be the last word, but it would damn well be loud. The old Ferrari voiced its battle cry down the back straight and through Warren Corners. The Little Hairpin with its pool of water, the Big Hairpin, the Esses unwound beneath him. He caught a Coventry in the South Turn, nipped inside and passed it coming out. It repassed on the pit straight and he had to do it all over again in Corner One. It stayed back, waiting, but he got around a Volga in Corner Two and stayed there, adding a little more distance in the Dogleg. The two of them came close on his tail down the long back straight but Warren Corners rushed up and he had a hundred yards lead coming out. Too bad, he told them. If you had been men I would have waved. The laps raged by. He was a zombilike thing, a reactor to commands that bypassed thought: one hand on the wheel, the other on the shift lever, watching a corner rush at him at # mph; then brakes, downshift, downshift, on the line from one edge of the pavement to the other to the outside again, full pedal, upshift, tach into the red line, upshift, wait for the next corner. I'm a servo, he thought. Little different from the others; just blood instead of electricity. Have you seen the color yet, Stewart? Faces flashed and followed from the pits. Take a good look, he told them. It's the last act and you may miss the whole damn point of the play. He caught a Porsche in the Esses, a Lotus on Corner Two, and an Apache in the Dogleg. A Lotus wouldn't let him by in Warren Corners nor in the Little Hairpin. In the Big Hairpin he planted the Ferrari's nose on its tail and pushed. It pulled over. Clear off the pavement. A Honda was next in the South Turn, then another Porsche on Corner Two. And that is your failing, fellows, he grinned. Corners. The bland servos didn't have that one critical sense: that delicate, subliminal thing that heard the whisper in the car and reacted before the mind gave it reason; that intimate thing that linked a man and machine. It was something that couldn't ride a wavelength. And races are run in the corners, he told them, not on the straights. Any child can fire a missile in a straight line, but a man learns to corner. And not just on a race course, either. C ars were passed and fell behind, and fatigue slipped into his arms and shoulders. Blood and muscles, he thought, aren't electricity and solenoids. Gray was alone again in the pit and his makeshift board showed position and remaining laps. But it made little difference. He had been lapped once by the leaders, the matter of winning now; it was a matter of doing what he could. Didn't they used to say that the true drivers were really racing themselves? Something like that. Stirling Moss once put it another way. One's a racer or one's not. And one's a man or one's not. He pushed. And finally glimpsed them flying the Esses like three white rockets: the ultimate racers and #. And that's the way they planned to finish, with the two green Lotus howling at their heels. He smiled. Stewart must be questioning himself to death. Not only was Old Angry Man running with the hounds but his trim green streaks were being shown the way home. Poor man. We may as well combine his problems. One's a racer or one's not. He chased, pushing to the ragged rim, and the flashes of white and green ahead of him came more frequently. He edged closer lap by lap and was finally last in the trainlike line that screamed out of the South Turn and past the blurred faces in the pits. White, green and red! Symbolic? he thought. Yes. White is Truth. Green is Jealousy. Red is -- what else? -- Blood. the next step; logical advancement. Yes, take a good lock, people. Ten years of racing in one tricolored flash. They hauled away from him on the straights; he caught them in the corners. They pulled away, and he caught them again. He studied them and frowned. Almost manlike. Their reactions in the corners were incredibly fast, faster than any man, but they still had a reservation and he was coran assurance, a confidence -- damn it -- almost a senseThey were corIF nering better than the two Lotus. And he gave himself a bitter grin. The operator -- human or not -- belongs in the machine. These two creations were almost racers. Almost. The test was -- were they capable of pushing beyond themselves? Did they know their own boundaries? The five cars lengthened their lead down the back straight, but Warren Corners came zigzagging and he pushed his red nose to within six inches of the last green tail. The Lotus pulled over for him to pass but he did not have the power. He dropped behind it again, then slammed deep into the Little Hairpin. They came out side by side. It outpulled him on the short straight. He did it again on the Big Hairpin, holding his foot down to the last possible instant. He came out in front of the Lotus and with enough speed over to pull alongside its twin. It matched him however and they went into the Esses side by side. Then came the South Turn, and this time down the pit it was white, red, green. Well, Stewart? Have you seen the color yet? T he two Lotus came after him like cats on a rabbit but he stayed ahead through the north end of the course; the fast half, but with enough corners to hold them back. He arced through the Dogleg on the crying edge of a slide, trying to carry enough speed through with him to hold down the long back straight. For a moment he held but had to watch them pull away, and frown helplessly at his mirrors as the two Lotus closed the distance behind him. One started by, but Warren Corners were almost always a wit surprising. They hid in ambush over a slight rise, and at # mph they sprang suddenly. Too suddenly for the console operator in the Lotus van. The green car slammed full panic brakes, slithering beside him, then swung broadside as it fell behind. The other Lotus had to leave the course to avoid a crash, but man , aged to stay on its wheels. Well, Stewart, that's the bitch of it, isn't it? A car is still only as good as its operator. He howled through the two Warrens and came up close behind the up beside two as if goosed. So, he nodded. You can go faster, can you? And you're just a bit spooky too. Well... They backed off for the Little Hairpin, three dropping back to find its line. But Ross held. The distance rushed shut until he knew something beyond his own brakes would have to save them from collision. Stampeding, they used to call it; for scaring green drivers. And three was green. It spurted up beside two again on the inside, and the corner was there and the pool of water and no place for it to go. Spray crashed white against the sky. The car recovered instantly, but in that slice of time it touched two. And two left the corner sideways into the mud, going over and ever and into the air and end for end until there was hardly enough of it left to stop. Number three stayed on the course, but greatly slowed, and he, passed it without losing speed. He tried to pick up the slipstream from one. but he was not close enough hard into the Big Hairpin, caught through the Esses. He rode close and felt them touch lightly in the South Turn. # the stands and pits, but bis slipstreaming held and they entered Corner One less than a foot anart. In the one flashing glance he had. it seemed that he had never seen so many faces bordering around the course And he hated them! Hated them with a savage, flaming hatred for their coddled, cowardly world; their progressively protective world that had made him an alien in his own land. For he was an alien and he knew it now. An anachronism. A smoldering old savage unable to adapt; unable to take it quietly. An Old Bastard. ing on him down the pit straight and through Corner One with the remaining Lotus snarling on its tail. They were closer coming out of Corner Two, snaking slightly in their screaming acceleration. He allowed himself a small smile. So that was the flavor now: full go and to hell with the cars! Okay. Men have a full go too. over him going under the bridge, finally coming alongside, the Lotus riding its slipstream. There was no passing room before the Dogleg; it was back off or get off. He knew what was coming. It was an old trick, and he felt disgust that they should think he couldn't handle it. He was on the outside, holding into the corner until they had no room to come over to make their line. Then he gave full brakes, dropped a gear, then another, then full power. The two cars drifted across his nose, forced too far into the corner. He cleared the tail of the Lotus by four inches, stayed on his line and went through. They left the ditch and bounced. The Lotus swerved to miss it and hit a parked Lafitte. Dirt and pieces cluttered up the sky. He had one last glimpse of grass, trying to recover, then it fell behind. He chased hard down the back straight, out of the slipstream now and losing distance. Damned stupid machines! But his mirrors showed three back on the course and coming fast, tire smoke streaming behind it. He caught one again out of Warren Corners. He held back a short distance, then made a bid in the Little Hairpin. They held side by side for a moment coming out, engines climbing to a siren cry. But power paid again and he had to tuck in behind the white car as it pulled away. Number three was pressing closer through the Big IF Hairpin. He could see why. It carved out behind him in a brawling, tire-mauling disregard for everything, only its brute power holding it on the course. Its engine couldn't take that for long, he knew that. But apparently that made no difference now. It was after him. By design or by mistake, by will or by short circuit, it was after him. Couldn't they turn it off? Or didn't they want to? If you were a man, he thought, if you were a being of choice and knowledge -- I would admire you. You would be a racer. T hey seethed through the Esses and lined up for the South Turn. Three was coming now like a mad beast. He held close inside in the fast left turn. Three started around him on the outside. Impossible! Nothing could hold at that speed. "Why you goddamned machine!" he said. "You're broken!" ed into the wall. Body panels shattered off behind it. A tire blew. It lurched, slammed the wall hard and curved across in front of him. He jabbed brakes and dropped a gear. The Ferrari screamed its protest, sending the tachometer far beyond the red line. "Sorry, old girl, but I think they've taken us." He could drop back until the tangle resolved itself. But one would be down the straight and out of sight. Or he could hold in and bore through and never quite know how he made it. The decision was made without him really aware of the question. One's a racer or one's not. The wild three barely cleared his nose -- and slashed into two. They both spun. He backed off, watching. That was it! The metal men had bashed themselves out. The apple was his now. The whole show! He could stroll home and take it. The two cars separated, ricocheting from the wall. He watched, safely, then rammed his foot down. There would be a hole! A tiny hole and the old Ferrari would lose some more paint. But that's the going of it. He had never strolled home! But something white blurred across in front of him, he met it full on. The shoulder strap snapped and his head smashed the wheel. Automatically he yanked himself back and pulled hard left, trying to broadslide down the straight. But the slide became a spin, and he was too dazed and too tired and too old to do anything about it. Go, Ferrari, he said. You've got eleven years of momentum in you. Work it off. You've got the last word. Another crash. And another. And one final thundering impact that blasted him to a halt. The engine roared into him through the firewall. Flames exploded in the cockpit that he did not feel and the only thing he heard from the world outside was one voice -- almost a scream. " Let it burn!" He agreed. The only thing to do. He groped until he found the wheel, then leaned back in the seat IF  Short Story Here's why the captain of the Delta Crucis couldn't lie -- and what he could do instead! I can't say that I enjoy dealing with Captain Hannah. It isn't that he charges too much for the use of that tramp spacer of his -- the Delta Crucis -- although he usually isn't above charging close to the limit of what he figures the traffic will bear. It's just that things seem to happen whenever I dead with him. And then there's the point that I don't trust him. Still, he sometimes gives me a better price than I can get anywhere else, and on occasion his is the only ship that's available. So I find myself contracting with him oftener than is good for my health. Captain Hannah usually isn't much given to talking, but on this occasion I was giving him a hard time. The prospective cargo was milna nuts. As you know, they are easy to ship, and can be stored for years. The only thing that bothers them is dampness. If I couldn't get my price, I could afford to wait. The warehouse they were stored in was mine, it was well built and it wasn't full. As for Captain Hannah, I think that an installment on the mortgage on Delta Crucis must have been due. He was acting hungryAt any rate, he had been telling me about the unusually excellent humidity control system he had in his ship. When I delicately implied that he was shading the truth, he didn't stare at me silently out of those pale spacer's eyes of his and then stalk away, as he usually would have done. Instead, when he had stared at me silently, he beckoned the waiter over and motioned for our glasses to be refilled. T hen the silent Captain Hannah started to talk. "Clever I may not be," said Captain Hannah. "Lucky I frequently am not. But dishonest -- this I will never be." He paused. "I have never told anyone this before, but would you like to hear about how I came to own Delta Crucis? It will prove my statement about my honesty, and that will give you a hold over me in future dealings that I'm not sure I can afford. Still, it will be worth it, if it helps me get this contract with you at this time." "I told him expansively that I was in no hurry, that my crop and I were very happy where they were, but that if he wanted to tell me a story, I was not adverse to drinking his liquor. "Well," said Captain Hannah, "not too many years ago I was First Officer of the Star of Glory. That's one of the biggest and most profitable combined passengerfreighters of the Glory Line. You've heard of them, I'm sure, even if their ships don't often call at backwater planets like this one. They are a huge outfit, but they aren't particularly famous for their honesty. The courts keep them from getting too far out of line very often, but they shave things as close as they think they can get away with. "At the time of my story, we were circling Gamma Ophiuchus Four, getting ready to set down and do a little trading. Captain Clark was a big, bold man, with the kind of moral sense, or lack of it, that the Glory Line admires. But when he gathered his crew together to give last minute instructions he looked scared. His big, blotchy face had turned mushroom pale and glistened with a sheen of sweat. His hands trembled as he held them up in his usually brusque signal for silence. " 'Listen to me, all of you,' he said hoarsely. 'Behave yourselves dirtside this trip. No tricks, no stealing, no lies. Not on the Diogenes Planet. For the sake of all of us, keep your noses entirely clean. If you make one step out of line they'll know it, God help us. And I'll know it. And you'll regret it the rest of your lives -- if you're allowed to live.' "He paused for a minute and ran a hand over his clammy face. When he continued, it seemed almost as if he talked to himself instead of his crew. 'After what the Empress of Glory pulled here last year it may be too late for all of us, whatever we do. But the Company says we go down, so we go down. They say it's worth the risk -- but what do they risk? Still, it may be all right... Just remember: don't lie or steal on this planet.' "Captain Clark visibly pulled himself back together, and then yelled out, 'That's all -- man your landing station' a couple of the officers in the old Empress. I knew that her entire crew -- including officers -- had been paid off and replaced after they had got back from their previous cruise. The rumor was that they had been blackballed from space, but no one from Empress would talk about it. I hadn't known that they had set down on Gamma Ophiuchus Four. Between the mystery of what happened to the crew Of the Empress and the mystery of a fearless skipper acting gutlessscared, I decided it wouldn't do me any harm to behave myself and tell the truth for a few days. In fact it might do a lot of good. At that time, however, it was certainly not my intention to make honesty a way of life. For a spacer like himself, it sounded too much like a way of life that didn't go along with eating regularly. And I'm fond of my three squares a day -- it's a habit I acquired a long time ago. "So the captain set the Star of Glory down into her berth as smoothly as if he hadn't had his teeth chattering. After the cooling sprays cut off, I rode the ladder down as head of the landing detail. As I told you, Glory was a big ship, but she wasn't that big; the skipper, not the first officer, was the usual head of the landing detail. The switch didn't make me feel any better. "Well, I 'howdied the senior native of the group that rode out to meet us, just as if everything was sweetness and light. He nodded back gravely. He, like the rest of his party, was about seven feet tall, with a bald head about two sizes too big for the rest of him. The boss, whose name I can't pronounce, had pepper and salt body fur, carefully curried wherever it showed on his arms and legs and under his casually slung toga. He strode around with a sort of stately awkwardness, like a stork, and like the others he had sleepy, heavy-lidded eyes. Frankly, they didn't look like much to be worried about. But I was worried about them. "The headman held out a long arm without saying anything. I laid our port authorization and our pratique and manifests and such in it. He perused them all in a languid and leisurely manner, and then asked, in excellent Trade English, if our ship didn't belong to the same Company as the Empress of Glory. "I told him yes. He sighed and studied the faces of all of the men in the landing detail with great care. Then he nodded slowly and asked to see the rest of the crew. As these men came down the ladder he gave each of them the same slow faceto-face stare, but he seemed satisfied until, last of all, the captain showed up. "The Ophiucan's bald head slowly turned a deep purple, and then faded gradually back to its normal light blue. He didn't speak until the reversible color change was complete. Then, regretfully I thought, he said, 'You, Captain Clark, have IF visited us before. At that time your behavior gave us concern. Now, since the visit of the Empress of Glory, your own return leaves us no choice. You, and all of your crew, must be given Stage Two Education. # TT without hesitation, as if he'd   been held down on springs and released by a trigger. Captain Clark dove for the ladder and swarmed up it, trying desperately to escape back into the interior of his ship. "The rest of us just stood with our jaws slightly dropped, watching the performance. The Ophiucans, though, for all of their awkwardness, moved as quickly as the Captain did. One of them caught him by the heels just before he disappeared entirely from view. They hauled him, still scrabbling, back down the ladder. " 'Don't let them take us!' he screamed. 'Help me! Help me! ' At that, a few of us tried a sally to free Captain Clark and break through into the ship, but the natives were ready for that, too. They rounded all of us up, and held us with a casual air of complete boredom that was infuriating. "Their boss took no notice of all of this. He just led the way slowly back to the column of Ophiucan vehicles, and jacknifed into the first one. We Earthmen were herded into the trucks behind, and wheeled to a windowless building at the edge of the landing area. There we were led into a long, featureless corridor lined on both sides with doors and were popped, one to a room, into the torture cubicles behind the doors. "They were entirely impersonal and dispassionate about the whole thing. They strapped me into a chair, the only one in the room, and got right to work. They hit me with needles that sent fire and ice through my body. They wheeled up a machine that blinked agonizing lights and howled agonizing sounds at me for days and months -- for and eternity of time. And through it all, and it was the most unendurable thing of all, a calm voice spoke to me continuously, pounding at my brain until it broke into little pieces. Actually, I've found out since, the whole thing didn't take more than a couple of hours. "I've only been given a dose of the rack or thumbscrews once, but I can bet that the best experts with those tools are amateurs in comparison with the Ophiucans when it comes to dishing out pain. Only what they had done didn't show when they were finished. Afterwards, when they let me go, I could walk without a limp. There wasn't so much as a red mark on me. "They turned all of us loose -- just like that. They even apologized for the discomfort that they felt they had caused us, and set up a trade meeting for the following day. None of us headed back for the ship, except the captain. The crew headed for a pub that was pointed out by an Ophiucan, and I turned into the Officer's Bar. "It was all very normal and customary for a spaceship's crew after planetfall, except for that interminable two hours of torture just behind me. I tell you, I resolved to behave myself on Gamma Ophiuchus Four." Captain Hannah paused to take a sip of his drink. t (Tt's a very sad story," I told JL Captain Hannah. "And maybe l even believe it. But I understand that people forget the lessons taught them by pain very quickly. And after all, this isn't Gamma Ophiuchus Four. Why should all of this that you've told me give me confidence in your present veracity?" Captain Hannah stared at me for several seconds, and then very slowly set down his glass. Didn't you hear me when I started?" he asked. "This is the story of how I got Delta Crucis. Wait until you hear the rest. "There was only one other Earthman in the bar," said Captain Hannah. "He waited until I had a drink in front of me, and then wandered over to my table. 'Do you mind?' he asked, motioning to a chair beside mine. "I shrugged, and he sat down. 'I'm Captain Jones,' he said. 'Maybe you saw my ship when you set down. Mine is Delta Crucis, over there on the other side of the field.' "I said nothing, and he looked at me for a very long time. 'So they gave you the Cure?' he asked softly, as last. "I nodded. 'The bastards.' "Jones shook his head. 'You've got them all wrong,' he said. 'In their own minds, they were doing you a favor. They weren't torturing you. They weren't trying to hurt you at all. What they were doing was treating your sick mind. Unfortunately, they don't know much about human metabolism and such, so the treatment hurts.' "I nodded in agreement. " 'They are the best mind-tinker ers that I've ever heard of in the Universe. And they are a very moral people. They can't stand liars. Also, and not very surprisingly, they hate to be cheated. You -- or your outfit at least -- must have tried to put something over on them at some time or other. They let that happen only once, if they're careless.' "I nodded. 'It's possible,' I agreed. With the Glory Line, it was so possible as to be a certainty. " 'What they did to you,' said Captain Jones, 'was to treat your mind so that it is now impossible for you to tell a lie. Also, they have fixed it so that if you have stolen anything of theirs, or of anybody else's on this world, you can't take it off-planet with you when you leave. Nor can you knowingly lift off with anything that anyone else has stolen on board your ship. That's what they refer to as Stage Two Education. They figure that treatment will put an end to lying and stealing on this planet. They never lie or steal themselves.' " 'It sounds mighty effective, too, if you're telling the truth,' I said. " 'Oh, I can prove that it's the truth, easily enough,' said Captain Jones. 'Just you try to tell me a lie -- any lie at all.' IF V V do it. I couldn't force myself to tell a lie, no matter how much I sweated and tried. Jt was hell. I was horrified. What good is a trader in the spaceways who has to tell the truth all the time, even when he dickers? "Captain Jones tried to console me. We had several drinks, which we paid for alternately, and he said that maybe it wouldn't be too bad for me after all -- that Earthmen are a mighty ingenious bunch of people, all in all, and that in an emergency, they might even be able to tell the truth and make out all right with a small profit at the end. "Well, when it came time for the Ophiucan bartender to shut up shop, my friend Captain Jones asked if I had any spare money. 'We can go over to my ship,' he said, 'and play a little poker. After all, it's perfectly safe. I know I can trust you to be honest with the cards.' "This sounded fine and fair to me at the time. In my condition it somehow never occurred to me that I had no equivalent assurance as to the honesty of Captain Jones. I've got three thousand, about,' I told him, patting my pocket. 'Got it right here. Don't mind too much losing in an honest game -- hate to be cheated. Like an Ophi -- Ophu -- ' I let that idea lie where it belonged, and let Captain Jones lead me around the edges of the sprawling spaceport, to where his ship stood in an isolated launching bay. The ship wasn't new and it wasn't big -- you know the Delta class almost as well as I do -- but it looked beautiful to me. You know, you've hired my ship often enough: one-man controls, and freedom of action, instead of the large crews and the steady schedules and the complicated regulations and the demanding passengers of a Glory Liner. "We climbed up into the control room. Captain Jones broke out a bottle, but the walk had sobered me enough that I turned him down. 'Look,' I asked. 'How can I play poker with you? I've got to tell the truth all the time.' " 'Of course,' he answered. 'You weren't intending to cheat, were you? When you pull a bluff and make a bet on a bad hand, you aren't lying. You are just saying that you are that hand; and with your cash in the pot, you are sure telling the truth. I just don't have to worry about cheating, that's all. Of course, you won't be able to look happy when you've got a bad hand, or pretend that you don't know the correct odds, or pull any shady plays like that. But then, you don't look to me like a man who would try to play that brand of poker, with or without the Ophiucan treatment.' I I Qo I accepted his drink, and we started playing. "Captain Jones wasn't a very good poker player. He knew the odds all right, but he bet a little too hard when he had a good hand, and there was a sort of unconscious twitch in his left eye when he was thinking of pulling a bluff. He ran out of money pretty soon, and started writing I.O.U.s. We kept the game going for several hours -- it must have been the middle of the night by the time we finished -- and when we counted up Captain Jones' I.O.U.'s we figured out that I had just acquired a spaceship, complete with mortgage. "I felt an impulse to tell Jones to take back his ship, that it wasn't fair for him to gamble it away in a single night, but I found that I couldn't say it. It wouldn't have been true. The game had been an honest one. I would have paid if I had lost. I did want a spaceship -- this spaceship. Delta Crucis was what I had been longing for during all of my years in space. "I wouldn't be being dishonest to Captain Clark or the Glory Line either, if I left the Star of Glory to skipper my own ship. I was already old to be a mere first officer. My contract had expired and not renewed -- they were just taking me back home through courtesy and a provision of my contract that required them to. The second officet was fully qualified to take my place. " 'What are you going to do with yourself, now that you haven't got a ship?' I asked Jones. 'Captain Clark might take you on as first officer, to keep the passengers impressed with the number of officers he's got, but I'm not a bit sure of that. He carries all the Blue Suits the law requires, even without me.' " 'It might be worth giving him a try,' said Jones. 'Or I may just have to stay here on the Diogenes Planet and see what develops.' "He shook his head, a little sadly, I thought. 'Do you know,' he said, 'one of the things I'll be sorry for about all this, if I stay here, is that I'll miss setting down on the planet most of your cargo is assigned to. Eden Number Five. I had planned to take a little vacation there -- hunting and fishing, and maybe a little bit more. They've got some mighty good-looking girls. " 'I'll tell you what,' I said, 'I'll take you there. There's no reason that you shouldn't stay on board. And you should be able to ship out of Eden Number Five without a bit of trouble. A lot of ship's officers are just looking for the chance to stay awhile. Let's consider that it's all settled, then.' 'No, thank you,' said Jones. 'That would be charity, and I'd never forgive myself if I took that kind of charity from you now. I lost fair and square, and I'm not whining. Let's just leave it at that.' t T T #"ell, I couldn't persuade him   to agree to come with me. He wanted to, it was clear enough, but he had that old spacer pride. I liked him a good deal better for showing it. It eased some of the contempt I had felt toward him for gambling away a fine ship like Delta Crucis. " 'At least you'll spend the night here, what's left of it,' I said at last. 'You can use your old cabin. I won't be moving in until tomorrow anyway. Not that there's anything on the Star that I really want to bring with me aboard my ship. Some uniforms with the wrong insignia, and some other clothes.' IF " 'I'll take you up on that," said Jones, 'and thanks. Thanks a lot. I'll take my own things dirtside tomorrow. " 'And don't forget to make your arrangements with the Port Authorities to lift. You have to start within about three days if you're going to make it to Eden Number Five in time, and there's a penalty clause in your contract if you're late, that you can't afford to pay. It only takes a few minutes to get clearance, provided you do it at night. You may not have had occasion to find out about it, but these stilt-legs are nocturnal. You were met by the offshift. By the way, your ship is all topped off and ready to go.' Jones ran his fingers slowly over the smooth enamel of the main computer, patted it a couple of times without any noticeable change of expression and then stumbled into my cabin. "I stayed in the control room for a while, thinking, and finally managed to reach a decision. Jones wanted to come with me. It was just his pride that was keeping him from riding along. He couldn't object if I took off while he was still on board; in fact, he'd be grateful. I tiptoed over and locked the door to the cabin. Then I called up my old ship, and told the O.D. of the Star of Glory that it was up to him, as Officer of the Deck, to wake up the skipper and tell him that I wouldn't be back. Morgon -- the O.D. -- told me he figured that could wait until morning, but that Captain Clark wasn't getting much sleep. "That chore accomplished. I buzzed the Spaceport Control Tower, and got clearance to lift. tt'T#'ithin a couple of hours from the time she had become mine with the help of a busted flush, Delta Crucis was growling up into parking orbit under my command. Jones woke up at that, of course, but I couldn't hear what he was shouting until I cut the jets. And even then I couldn't make out the words. All I could tell was that he was pounding and kicking at the door and yelling. Actually, I wasn't trying to listen to him very hard. I was lining up my ship for my first Jump in my own property, and I wanted it to be a good one. "When I finally pushed the button and we went into the Limbo that cut us entirely free from Ophiuchus and sent us hurtling, I hoped, to the vicinity of Eden, the banging and kicking and shouting stopped as if the button had cut them off too. "I went over to the door and unlocked it to let Jones out. I was beginning to worry that he might be unhappy about my having shanghaied him, even if I had meant it as a gift. "'Congratulations, my friend,' he said. 'You got me off that damn planet, in spite of all the Ophiucans could do! You came through in fine style. Somehow, do you know, I never really believed all this would work. It was a real long shot gamble, but I had to take it." " 'What the hell are you talking about?' I asked him politely. 'You're babbling. Have you gone off your rocker?' " 'Almost,' said Jones. 'It was a close thing. But I'm fine now. I knew that there had to be some way -- some honest way -- to get around those stilt legs with their holier-than-thou morality and their brain molding. I couldn't beat their conditioning, so I used it.' " 'Then you've been through that treatment of theirs too?' I asked. " 'I sure have,' Jones nodded proudly. 'And with reason, too, according to their lights. I picked up a handful of Ophiucan fire opals real cheap. The way I did it was honest enough to get me by most places, but it wasn't honest enough for these natives, so they gave me the works. They didn't try to take the stones back; they were mine, all right. The bastards just fixed it up so that they were sure I could never sell them or get them off the planet. "Remember, they have adjusted my mind so that I can't lie, and so I can't knowingly let the goods I stole be removed from the planet. So I had to arrange for you to do it without my knowledge, and that wasn't easy. That's what I was banging on the door for -- to tell you what I had done, so you wouldn't go through with it. If you had heard me, you would have had to set Delta Crucis back down on the Diogenes planet. When we shifted into Limbo, the compulsion ceased. " 'As you can understand, that's why I couldn't accept your charity. You wouldn't have locked me out of the control room, and I would have stopped you from lifting. Fortunately. I didn't really believe you'd lock me in and take off -- it was just a hope. If I'd been even half sure, I couldn't have carried it off.' " 'But why didn't you just give me the ship? Why the gambling bit? And did you try to lose?' ( t Tones laughed. 'Of course I didn't try to lose. That would have been dishonest. You had to earn the ship to take it without asking questions that would have wrecked everything. I'd have had to tell you the truth, you know. If you will think back, you'll realize that every word I told you was the absolute truth. But I've got my gems safely into space anyway, and it's well worth the loss of the Crucis to do it. My profits will be big enough to let me buy a dozen ships like this, free and clear.' " 'Aren't you afraid I'll just take the stones away from you?' I asked. "Jones shook his head. 'I'd raise a stink, and the authorities would ask you about it, and you'd have to tell them the truth. Remember, by Galactic Law I came by these gems legally, and Ophiucan rules don't apply in space. " 'That's why you can't just drop me out through the space lock, either, if you should have that in mind, which I doubt. You'd just talk a noose around your neck, sooner or later.' " 'I'm satisfied,' I said. And I was. I had my ship, and I still have it. And I manage to make a little profit with her, too, even though I have to keep absolutely honest in my dealings, even with crooks." Captain Hannah finished his drink. "And that, my friend, is why you can trust me," he said. "The treatment I was given on the Diogenes Planet is beyond the ability of anyone else in the Universe to undo, insofar as I've been able to find out up to this time. And I've tried. So, do I get the contract?" I wasn't sure. It sounded to me as if the captain of a space tramp, even being honest, was more dangerous than most men are, lying up a storm. "You can read the contract as well as I can," said Captain Hannah. "I'm insured against non-delivery, so you don't have to worry about that. You pay me based on the lowest price you can expect me to get for milna nuts in good condition -- you only lose if they spoil. And I promise to keep very careful check on the humidity controls -- very careful. Remember, if your profits go up, so do mine. The price I'm quoting you is barely enough to cover my fuel cost and the next payment on the mortgage on Delta Crucis, which is about due." S o I gave him my trade, and he made me a profit, too. Almost five times what I expected to make. He turned the humidity controls up high, so the milna nuts sprouted, and then sold them at premium prices as seedlings. It's honest enough, I suppose, but it's also very risky. Too damp or not quite damp enough, and the nuts just rot. And the risk was all mine. Hannah couldn't lose. Of course, it took very careful attention to the humidity controls through the whole trip to get the cargo through safely, and that is just what he'd promised. Maybe Captain Hannah is forced to tell the truth, after all. I wonder if Diogenes would recognize his It you've missed any copies of Galaxy, IF or Worlds of Tomorrow from # to date, our Back Number Department has a limited supply available at #c each, any three issues for #, regardless of original cover price. Copies sent postpaid anywhere in U.S. or Canada. Sorry, no copies before # at present available. Send dates and title of issues you wish with remittance to Galaxy Publishing Corp., #I Hudson Street, New York City #. IF  Novelette Assassin  Son His way of life was the dealing of death... and his victims were legionl T he intemperate sun of Sepharad had half risen, its golden circle still skewered on the western horizon by the spires of the capital city of Zamorah. To the East, the black, elliptical backside of the Parasol had likewise risen. It stood in opposition to the sun, like a disc of nighttime that the day could not dispel. Joseph Goldfrank tossed off a brocade coverlet and stumbled out onto his private balcony, where an antique bronze quadrant was mounted on the marble balustrade. After consulting Barron's Astral Tables, he adjusted the quadrant a fraction of a degree from its previous position. Then, kneeling, his palms lifted in the direction determined by the quadrant, he began to pray: "Terrafather, Gaea-mother, Earth, which I may never hope to tread -- though I am absent, do not forget that I am yours. Yours still: in the press of other Gravities; in the light of other Suns: in the midst of Aliens: still yours. Preserve me human and remember me so. Let my sons return to your land, your light, your air and your people." While he mumbled through the old ritual, his mind cleared itself of the unconscious clutter of sleep. He kissed the Tables and replaced it in its niche under the quadrant. Sepharad's sun had risen from the spires of Zamorah. It shone on Joseph's naked body, burnt to a dark bronze by eighteen years under its alien brightness. He began, as always after the morning prayer, to exercise. On his left shoulder was the stillpainful mark of the Sephradim, a circle crosshatched with lines of longitude and latitude, with which he had been tattooed on his eighteenth birthday. The Sephradim was a sign that his ancestors had come to Sepharad directly from Earth. Originally, the tattoo had been the mark of a criminal -- to be exact, of a murderer. But on Sepharad it was a distinction greatly envied by the rest of the human population. His righl shoulder bore no tattoo: Joseph was a younger son. "Joseph!" his father's Voice rang out from the terrace below. "Breakfast." With lightning obedience, Joseph threw on a robe woven from Earthgrown cotton and ornamented with Sephradian diamonds. Since it was quicker than the stairs, he jumped down to the terrace from his balcony. His father's hand was extended for a perfunctory kiss, which, perfunctorily, was accorded it. His brother, to whom this honor had only recently come due, made more of a ceremony of it. Joseph poured out two carafes of coffee for them and, as was the duty of a second son, recited the prayer-beforemeals. "I will have only one coffee this morning, Joseph. Therefore, you may have what is left -- with David's permission." Joseph glanced hopefully at his brother, who nodded his consent. "I thank you both." He emptied the dregs of. the electric percolator into his own carafe. Usually he had to content himself with a second brewing of the grounds. His father passed him a salver of fruit taken from their own orchards, and Joseph selected a mango and breadfruit. Native-grown products were seldom admitted to the Goldfrank table, but since on Earth the fruit of Sepharad was considered a great delicacy, and exception had been made. "Your brother and I will be gone throughout the day. I expect you to oversee Chilperic's work. The mosaic in the steam room needs to be repaired, and I shall want a roast to be ready for my evening meal. I shall be home by the next opposition." At sunset, the Parasol in the west and the sun in the east would again be in opposition, marking the end of a full day's work. "A roast. Then, you -- " His father's stern gaze silenced the unnecessary question. Roast meat meant only one thing: his father was going to perform an assassination. Joseph wondered who was to be his father's victim. But after all the name would probably mean nothing to him. He knew little of Sephradian politics. T he Goldfranks, father and sons, ate in silence, while the sun ruthlessly shortened the shadow of the eight-foot wall circling the terrace. When there was no shade left, the elder Goldfrank rose. David followed him to the heliport. Joseph watched as the copter rose silently from its couch at the side of the house, like a jewel pendant in the bright morning sky, then turned to the capital city of Zamorah, a brighter jewel at the horizon. The copter had risen slowly, powered by a ten-horse antigravitic generator. Now it sped out of sight to the west as its sidejets caught fire and scorched their path across the sky. Chilperic, unbidden, wheeled out of the house to gather the breakfast dishes. Chilperic was a "blob." as the natives of Sepharad were called by the Earth-born colonists -- who had pre-empted the natural title of Sephradim for themselves. It was a measure of Goldfrank's affluence that he could retain a blob as his servant. It was not so much a question of Chilperic's wages (which were exorbitant), but the expense of providing the aluminum, mobile armature in which Chilperic went about his chores in the Goldfrank household. "Good morning, Master Joseph," Chilperic's voice box piped. "How does the Earth lie!" "Happily and far," Joseph returned. "In what conjunction?" "Please, Chilperic! We don't have to go through the whole ritual. There's work to do." "Your father has given the most explcit orders that the only ritual -- " "Father is gone for the day, and you will take my orders. My first order is not to tell Father that I told you to be informal with me." Chilperic laughed: "Ha-ha-ha." Like the other phonetic elements of the voice box. the laughter was taped. It always sounded the same. Blobs, being telepathic among themselves, had no need of voices. Chilperic "spoke" with his fingers, using a phonetic typewriter inside the ovoid armature that enclosed his amorphous body like the eggshell about an egg. The smooth metal shell was dotted with sockets into which a variety of prosthetic limbs could be inserted. Chilperic thus gave all the appearances of being a robot; it was disquieting when he did not act like one. "I understand that I am to repair the mosaics in the steam room, just as I did last year." "Yes." "The steam room, if you will forgive my saying so, is a foolish place for a mosaic. But it is a foolish mosaic." Chilperic's judgement of the Miro reproduction coincided fairly well with Joseph's own. The fluctuations of taste had led the younger generation on Sepharad to despise abstractionism  -- as two generations before, when the Goldfrank villa had been constructed, they had been led to admire it. Nevertheless, as a servant, it was not Chilperic's place to make judgments. Joseph reminded him of this. "It is a beautiful work of art," Chilperic apologized, "and a striking IF example of the impossibility of two cultures understanding each other." With this, Chilperic, bland as aluminum, wheeled off to the kitchen with the breakfast table. Joseph sat down to memorize tion V of Will Durant's Story of Civilization. He was preparing for the priesthood. II Then the sun and the Parasol '  had each risen # from the horizon and one fourth of the day was spent. Joseph set aside his history text and went into the house to check on Chilperic's work. It was hardly a necessary task. Like the robot he so much resembled, Chilperic was incapable of loitering. By nature the blobs were industrious, but Joseph's father suspected that this invariable trait was no more than a clever deception, and he had communicated a good deal of this attitude to his sons. Like most Sephradim, the elder Goldfrank was convinced that the blobs were engaged in a subtle and relentless conspiracy against his person -- an understandable obsession in a man who, more than twenty years as a professional assassin, had killed so many of their race that mere quantity was somehow beside the point. Goldfrank tolerated Chilperic's presence in the house for four reasons: It was a mark of prestige: Chilperic had worked for the family as long as the elder Goldfrank could remember, and to discharge him now would be an act of cowardice; he did the work of three human servants (but then he was paid accordingly); and, lastly, Chilperic was sexually neuter, so that even Goldfrank could see that his most touchy suspicions had no basis in reason. "Master Joseph?" "Yes, Chilperic?" "If I finish repairing this exquisite mural by Eclipse, may I go into the village I am needed at a mating. It will take only a few minutes." "Surely. And while you're there stop by the Earth Quarter and pick up a roast for the evening meal. Father will return by opposition. It must be ready then." "As you say." Chilperic turned back to his work, but Joseph suspected that he was already signaling his six fellow-blobs in the village to expect him for the mating. The blobs were septsexual, a degree of sexual differentaton found only in free-form telepathic races. Joseph did not understand too precisely the entire Sephradian mating process. There were, he knew, two blobs that performed a masculine function and two others that could be called women; the "mother" was hermaphroditic, then there were two neutral sexes who served somehow as catalysts. The "neuters" were not motivated by strictly sexual desires: the function of one was largely vegetative and of the other (which Chilperic represented) digestive. Chilperic had once attempted to give Joseph a more detailed explanation. But to Joseph, as to most humans, the subject inspired disgust rather than scientific curiosity. With a mental shrug of his shoulders, Chilperic had abandoned the discussion. The effect of this septsexuality on the native Sephradian culture (and, indirectly, upon the human colonists) bad been enormous. The government of the planet, from the Councils of the Empress at Zamorah to the meanest village bureaucracy, was based on the dynastic principle. The intricacies of dynastic politics were complicated by five-way sexual intrigues (the two neutral sexes being neutral in this too). Murder -- for reasons of passion or ambition -- were not uncommon. Moreover, the result of murder among the telepathic blobs was a vampire-like heightening of the mental powers of the murderer at the moment that his victim died. A mass-murderer became, by the very commission of his crimes, almost too powerful to destroy. On Sepharad, therefore, there was every incitement to murder, and so it lay under the strictest taboo. But the taboo did not, of course, affect other races. The appearance upon Sepharad of Earthmen had brought about a large-scale cultural transformation. Earthmen, not being telepaths and not being subject to telepathic influence, could murder a Sephradian without inheriting his victim's store of mental powers -- and without being daunted by them. Earthmen, in fact, seemed to be indifferent to any consideration but the fee they received for their work. The professional assassin was born. The government of Earth, when it learned of these developments on Sepharad, accommodated its economic ally by using the alien planet as a prison colony. Murderers were given the choice between life imprisonment on Venus and transportation to Sepharad. They all chose Sepharad. Joseph was the great-great-grandson of Leonard Goldfrank, a professional murderer of some notoriety in Chicago in the year #. It was equivalent to a Mayflower pedigree. O utside, indistinctly, Joseph heard a knock on the gate. Even muted by the heavy walls of the houes, he recognized it as Leora's. He went across the terrace to the thick oak gate (not Earth-grown oak, but expensive just the same) set into the terrace's enclosing wall and admitted his brother's fiancee. Indiscreetly, Leora Hughes removed her veil. Joseph had seen her face before -- when David was present -- but even so he averted his eyes. "Silly!" Leora chided. "You can look at me. After all, in a few weeks, I'll be living here." It was, of course, equally true that in a few weeks Joseph would no longer be living in his father's house, but Leora did not draw such fine distinctions. Blushing, Joseph looked at her, avoiding the mocking intensity of her dark eyes, covertly admiring the carefully preserved pallor of her skin, the fullness of her lower lip made fuller by carmine. "My brother is gone for the day." "He's -- working!" she asked. The too IF mockery was suddenly absent from her eyes and her face went somewhat paler. "With Father, yes. But they'll be back this evening. I'll say you were here." "I am still here. Aren't you going to ask me into the house? If I leave now, I'll certainly be overcome by the heat." With the sun still an hour from Eclipse, the temperature was # Farenheit. "Besides," Leora went on, as Joseph led her to the atrium, where a marble dolphin's head (imported from Italy) gargled out a steady stream of chilled water -- "besides. I'd just as soon talk to you as David. David never has anything to talk about." "What would you like him to talk about! His work?" "Don't be bitter, Joseph. As a priest, you're going to be a fine assassin, I must say." He laughed. "I'll admit I used to be jealous of David -- " "Didn't you! I remember when we were seven, playing outside, the Quarterhouse. You told me -- " " -- But I am over that. If every one could be an assassin just by wanting it, no one would do anything else -- farmers, mechanics, store-keepers. Besides being a priest is the next best thing." "That's just what I meant. Next best." "I mean, with regard to money." Leora pursed her lips and nodded with ironic sympathy. "What I like about my future brother-in-law is his honesty. When other priests talk about 'keeping alive the sacred heritage of the human race' or 'the delights and comforts of a life of contemplation and learning,' you talk about money." "I like money. The other things are important, too. But when you're eighteen, sacred history -- " " -- is a bore." "What I like about my future sister-in-law is her immodesty." It was Leora's turn to blush. "What do you mean!" Joseph glanced reproachfully at her veil that she held loosely in her fingers, its silver sash brushing the terrazzo floor. "But that! I mean -- all the times when we were children, it's ridiculous." "But now we're not children. David wouldn't think it was ridiculous." She fixed the veil over her face, so that Joseph could see only her eyes glaring at him angrily. "I'd better start home. Tell David I missed him." "Good-by, Leora." But Leora did not glance back, or say good-by. I t seemed strange to think of Leora as his brother's fiancee: Leora, who, in the irresponsible years when they went to school with each other -- before, that is, she had adopted the veil of womanhood and stopped coming to the afternoon classes at the Quarterhouse -- had been his special friend. In fact, she had been rather more than that, although he had tried not to think how much more. How it must seem to Leora he did not ask himself. As a woman, it would make little difference how she felt. The marriage had been arranged between their fathers on the day that David had come of age, one year ago. It seemed strange that, a whole year later, it still seemed strange. The last sliver of the sun slipped behind the enormous man-made Parasol, and the artificial night of the Sephradian noonday descended over the land. Joseph knelt and faced the western sky. There, insignificant beside the greater brightness of near-by Vega, Earth's sun shone dimly and listened (or so he had been told at the Quarterhouse school) to his prayer. Joseph knew perfectly well that neither Earth, nor Earth's sun. actually listened to him. He sometimes doubted that anything or anyone listened at all -- except sometimes, his father. More than once Joseph had been beaten for neglecting the rituals, so that now they were almost second nature. The Eclipse lasted twenty minutes as long as it took the sun traveling eastward to pass behind the Parasol, travelling in the contrary direction at the same speed. The great Parasol, its longitudinal axis describing a # arc across the sky, shielded Zamorah and its environs from the fiercest heat of the sun, gave a brief respite to the parching earth while the spillgates of the new irrigating systems were opened, and allowed the dweller of the planet, human or otherwise a chance to walk abroad shaded from the merciless sun. The Parasol orbitted a mere hundred miles above the planet, the power for its antigravity plant being provided by the very sun whose rays its giant mirrors, visible as far away as the Lunar Observatory, deflected into space. Earth had built the Parasol and its two fascimiles orbitting beyond the horizon it had given them space. Earth had built the Parasol for Sepharad without cost, but not entirely from selfless motives. As a result of the lower mean temperature and the new pattern of pressure belts over once-arid plains, the agricultural output of Sepharad had more than doubled in the last fifty years. Of course, population had also boomed but not at all at the same rate. Septsexuality had certian advantages vis-a-vis the Malthusian dilemma. Export was now Sepharad's largest industry, and Earth and her colonies were Sepharad's chief markets. Joseph set off for his afternoon classes at the Quarterhouse as soon as he had rattled through the noonday prayer. If he hurried he could arrive at the Human Quarter in the village before the twenty-minute Eclipse was over. E clipse was not a total darkness. the northern and southern horizons glowed with a dim, refracted light. In the gloom, Joseph could still discern the gold-lettered sign above side of the villa was the family cemetery where ostentatious bronze crosses marked the graves of the men, and silver spheres -- the mark of the Sephradim -- stood above the women's plots. The bronze crosses were weathered to a dull green, and IF the silver spheres -- all but one -- were tarnished and gray. That one was his mother's, killed two years before, while shopping in the village during one of the recurrent outbursts against the colonists. Over a low hill, on Joseph's right hand, was the Hughes' villa, and farther on the flambuoyant fourstory mansion of Oscar Milne. Goldfrank, Hughes and Milne were all three professional assassins, which was three more than the nearby village had need of itself. Most of their work was carried on in Zamorah. Prudence, however, had led them to establish suburban residences at a comfortable distance from the scene of their business. A few crude structures of scrap plastic, the dwellings of lower-caste Sephradians, stood on the outskirts of the Human Quarter. No blobs were at large during Eclipse -- or, as the blobs referred to it, the Time of the Assassin. Although the Council of the Empress had sanctioned the construction of the Parasol, the average blob still regarded the daily blackout with superstitious terror. Custom had it that in the beginning the Eclipse had lasted mere seconds. Now the period of darkness was twenty minutes: and tomorrow? Rumors would spring up that the Time of the Assassin was growing longer. There would be local attacks on the colonists, who were thought to be responsible. Then the Empress' Army would dismiss the rioters and calm their fears -- which the next Eclipse would resurrect, keeping the vicious circle steadily 'a-spin. There was little hope of stopping it as long as the blobs worshipped the sun. The Human Quarter looked slightly shabbier than the Sephradian slums on its outskirts. While the professonal assassin enjoyed the luxury of his villa, the average colonisl paid the price of his legal criminality. They were rigidly segregated from the blobs, and building permits for their quarter were not easily obtained. Even jobs were scarce, short-lived and poorly paid. Since the colonists -- and their offspring -- were considered outlaws by the government of Earth, they were denied even the hope of someday departing their prison. But for all that they were probably happier on Sepharad than they would have been on Venus. Happiness is a relative state. Joseph did not like the Quarter. He hurried through it to his school, haunted by the thought that in only a few weeks this would be his home. Then, abruptly, he halted. Directly ahead of him a blob cased in the special fenestrated armature of the Imperial Civil Service wheeled down the street from the Quarterhouse, flanked on each side by guards in less ornamental shells. Joseph recognized the blob (or, more exactly, he recognized the armature) and bowed his head as it passed him: Sisebat, the most powerful Sephradian in the village and its mayor. He did not look like a murderer, Joseph thought. But then -- neither did his own father. Ill I "Shut up, Jamie," Joseph calmly commanded, but his eyes revealed well enough that he was afraid. A ring of boys had begun to form around them in the street outside the Quarterhouse. Jamie Hughes, his father's only son and a future assassin himself, was not to be shut up that easily. "Yeah -- he's the eighth man at a mating!" He made an obscene gesture. Joseph swung. Jamie had been ready, and Joseph found himself lying on the stony street, blood dripping from his nose. "Say he is!" Jamie taunted. "Say he's a blob-lover." Jamie fed Joseph's rage with professional expertise. Enraged, Joseph lunged to his feet, not flailing his fists as Jamie had expected, instead butting his head into the boy's stomach. They went down together. Jamie pounded at the base of Joseph's neck with the calloused side of his hand, Joseph bringing up his knee toward Jamie's midriff. Jamie twisted out of his grasp, ripping his clothing to avoid the well-aimed knee. Then Jamie began to kick his ribs. It was not an even match. Jamie, although he was two years younger and inches shorter than Joseph, was in training to be a killer. Joseph had not fought with anyone for the past year -- and he had never, except for some playful tussles with his brother, fought with an assassinto-be. Two of the older boys were trying to pull Jamie away. While his attention was diverted by the peacemakers, Joseph grabbed his leg and toppled him to the pavement, cracking his head against the stone ar.J stunning him sufficiently to allow Joseph to purchase hold on his throat unresisted. Thumbs pressed against the windpipe, quite blind now to anything but the pleasure of the violence -- the triumph -- strangling... "Joseph! Joseph!" It was unmistakably the voice of M agister Sontag, the Instructor of Earth History at the Quarterhouse and Master of the Rituals. Joseph loosened his grip on Jame's throat and looked to the Magister where he frowned down from a secondfloor dormer window. "Come up to my office this minute -- but first apologize to Master Hughes." "I apologize," Joseph mumbled. "Yeah -- blob-lover," Jamie said, sotto voice, accepting Joseph's hand. As he ascended the stairs to Sontag's office, tears of shame welled up in Joseph's eyes. "Sit down, Joseph. Here's a damp towel for your nose. Do you feel all in one piece?" "Yes. I'm very sorry; it was my fault. I -- " "Please, no false contrition. If I know Jamie at all, it was probably his fault. What did he do?" "He wanted me to kiss his ring. As though I were his younger brother! I don't have to do that -- it's not part of the Rituals." "Strictly speaking, of course not. But I have noticed that usually you are rather liberal in interpreting the Rituals. By refusing Jamie, you gave him the pretext he was looking for to fight with you." "He called my father -- " IF " -- enough names, doubtless, so that you struck the first blow. Jamie would see to that." The Magister sat down behind his desk and began to stroke the long beard signalizing his priesthood. "Humility is a lesson that is difficult for the young to learn. I don't want to scold you for today's little adventure -- you're not one to repeat mistakes. And I don't want to suggest that you're too high-spirited. A candidate for the priesthood should not be devoid of spirit, though that is using the word in a rather different sense. Yours seem to be animal spirits." Joseph looked up from the bloodstained towel, smiling. The Magister was smiling too. "I'm sure you'll learn to tame them at the seminary. Now -- " he pressed a button on the side of his desk -- "will you join me for a late lunch?" "With pleasure." A girl, obviously still in her teens despite the veil that hid her face and the loose robe that hid most of her other features, entered and stood before the Magister. "Bring wine and biscuits for two, Esther." Esther Sontag acknowledged her father's order with a slight bow. She glanced quickly at the towel Joseph still held to bis nose and then, less quickly, into Joseph's eyes where she found no reply nor recognition. Joseph always avoided meeting her anxious, darting eyes, for he knew that his father and the Magister were still bickering over the financial details of their betrothal. It was only a matter of time before their engagement was announced, and Joseph did not want Esther to read in his eyes the complete indifference he felt for her. Until their wedding, he could spare her that pain, at least. "Well, Joseph, are you eager to be off to the seminary? Eh? No one is ever eager to become a priest, so don't lie." "You'll like it. You're a good student, and there will be many history texts there you've never seen -- Toynebee, Gibbon. Or, if you prefer the classics, as I do, Plutarch, Herodotus. You do enjoy studying history, don't you?" "Next to making it. I can think of no finer pursuit." "I shall debate that point when you have had a chance to read Caesar's Commentaries. But, tell me, Joseph, if you could choose your way of life instead of inheriting it, would you have become a priest? No, don't answer that; it's not a fair question. We always imagine that, if we were free, we would be somewhere else, doing something better. Perhaps you know that I was the second son of an assassin myself. Sontag was once a famous name on Zamorah. I can remember the day my father packed me off for the seminary. I wasn't exactly eager "And you had wanted to be an assassin?" Indirectly, this was Joseph's answer to the Magister's question. Neither of them felt it necessary to be more explicit than that. "I did. Three months later my father was killed. By the time I was a priest, my older brother was also dead -- but not before he had avenged our father's death." "It's a dangerous profession." "But that is not my lesson. The assassin sows death, and death is his reaping." "The lex talionis ," Joseph observed as though reciting a lesson, and the Magister, as though satisfied with his recitation, changed the subject. "Do you wish to return to Earth someday, Joseph?" "It is the wish of every Sephradim." "We will never be allowed to leave this planet. Not until we can learn to live here without doing violence. or sanctioning it. On Earth, your father would be a criminal." "Yes -- and for his other murders." "The men he killed were assassins. He had no choice when he did it! The courts proved it was self-defense." "A murderer defending himself against other murderers. On Earth, a court that tolerate any murder is considered criminal itself. In short, we live in a criminal society." "Will a few priests and a dozen history books be able to change that? Excuse me, I didn't mean -- " "Of course you meant it. You're right. But it isn't the priests, or even the society that must be changed. It is each person, in his heart. You have read enough Earth history by now to have come to that conclusion yourself. Durant says -- " Esther entered without knocking. "Father!" she gasped. Her face was unveiled, but the features which Joseph saw revealed now for the first time communicated only one sensation -- fear. "Father, there are blobs downstairs! They -- " Sisebat stood in the open door behind Esther. Four guards wheeled into the room. "I have come for the prisoner, Joseph Goldfrank," Sisebat announced. There was the sting of the guard's needle at the base of his neck, and then nothing... darkness... eclipse. IV T erra-father, Gaea-mother, Earth! You may have what is left -- with David's permission... Under his body, bare, cold stone; hauds tied tight behind his back. Then Leora's voice:... a fine assassin, I must say. And his reply: the lex talionis... avenged... The image of Chilperic wheeling toward him, at the edge of consciousness now, was part of a dream. He was waking. The image seemed too real. There was a blob, but it was not Chilperic. He did not recognize the room in which he found himself. It was almost a cell. He remembered that he was a prisoner and rose to his knees on the floor, straining against the ropes that tightly bound him. "Father!" he cried. "My father, is he -- " "Your father is dead. And your brother as well. They attempted to assassinate the Empress. The village has confiscated their estate, but IF generously our mayor, Sisebat, has allowed you to live. I am to accompany you to the village where you may gather your personal possessions. My name is Egica." "Dead, you say? Both? Dead?" "Will you need to be guarded, or shall I untie you?" "I don't feel angry... or violent. That's strange." "Not strange at all: the sedation does not wear off immediately. But I advise you not to become violent. I am, as your language has it, armed." Joseph felt Egica's dextrous psuedopodia unravelling the knots in the rope. The wet plasma brushed his wrists. His skin had never felt the flesh of a blob till then. "This way." "It's night." "Yes, two hours, past the sunset." "And I am not a prisoner?" "No. The Magister spoke on your behalf -- and quite eloquently, too. He promised Sisebat that you were devoted to ideals of nonviolence, that you were to be a priest. Sisebat seemed to believe him. At least, he accepted his bribe, which was probably all that he wanted." "Then you didn't believe him?" "I advised our mayor to be merciful. Your death might have offended the human colonists unnecessarily. As for your idealism or lack of it, I profess no opinion." Joseph discovered that he had been crying, and it came over him now that his father and his brother were no longer alive, that the roast was either cold now or forgotten in the oven, turning to ash. "How were they killed?" "With laser-guns. They felt no pain, I'm sure. The bodies -- what was left -- were brought back to your villa. You will see." T hey walked the rest of the way in silence. Chilperic admitted them at the gate. The bodies lay on separate plastic mats on the terrace. It was impossible to tell which had been his father. The next thing Joseph was aware of was Chilperic's voice -- Joseph, get up. Can you stand up? Joseph, can I help? And then the wet pressure of Chilperic's psuedopodia against his bare shoulders. Joseph recoiled from that touch, not screaming yet, though perhaps he was -- Get away -- remembering the sensation, his horror, Chilperic's touch, wishing only to be outside his body. And then it seemed he was merely a spectator as his hands upended the blob's armature and rolled it over on the stone floor, a spectator of the fully-distended psuedopod that reached toward him until the heavy armature rolled over on it, and it broke then and lay on the stone floor, a streak of jelly. And Chilperic's cry -- Jo-seph -- that seemed though it issued from a mechanical voice box, to be choked with pain and grief. He did scream then -- stricken by a terror not of the forgotten touch but of his own irredeemable deed. He only noticed the laser projecting from Egica's metal shell after he had raised Chilperic upright. "He did not mean to do it," Chilperic's voice box enunciated, more for Joseph's benefit than Egica's whom he had already restrained from using the laser, telepathically. "When his father's father was killed, it was just the same. To them, we are all alike... all guilty. I am older now; that is the only difference. Slower to move -- and to mend." "Chilpcric -- " "Quite. I have no time to... Humans are a little insane, but it is over quickly... a terrible mosaic." "I know. I'll have it taken down." "Ha-ha-ha... Joseph -- be like -- " Chilperic spoke no more. There was a vague, liquid sound within the armature, as the blob's body relaxed into death. "What did he want to say?" Joseph asked, turning to Egica. "Be like your father." "An assassin?" "That was his meaning, but he would not have used that word." Egica paused. When he resumed, his words came more slowly. "It is also my meaning. As I understand your laws, your Ritual, you are entitled now, since your brother is dead, to become an assassin. It is hereditary. Am I right?" "Can you talk about that now?" "At no time else, I am afraid. You are responsible for Chilperic's death." "I know. I know." "My testimony could damn you. You can be tried, convicted, and sentenced to death. But an assassin would not be tried. He is licensed to do murder, and he lives outside the laws. Sisebat will never grant that license to you; he has to much to fear. But I will -- when I am mayor. I will also allow you to reclaim your father's estate. Therefore, you will assassinate Sisebat tonight." "And if I refuse?" "I cannot return to the village until Sisebat is dead. He will know that I have plotted his death, and he will kill me. Therefore, if you refuse I will kill you." "You give me little choice." "There is not much to give." "I will do it." "Chilperic was right. You will be the very image of your father." V R eturning to the village that night, his father's laser-gun hidden beneath a heavy woolen robe (made in England), Joseph allowed himself the luxury of idle speculation. In the future, it would be a luxury that he could ill afford. He speculated, for instance, on the problem of free will. He reflected that, being forced into a career that he had only that afternoon freely desired, he no longer desired that career. Necessity had a bitter taste. He thought of Leora, whom he would now surely marry, although a few hours ago he would not have allowed himself to admit that he was in love with her. Though she would be happier wed to him, though she might even have desired it, she was as much a slave of necessity as Joseph. She would wed him not for love's sake, but because he had inherited her from his brother and her father would not leave her any choice. IF Joseph wondered if necessity would have the same taste for Leora. He thought of Magister Sontag, gratefully and already with a sense of nostalgia. Later that night he would have the Magister tattoo on his right shoulder the mark of the Assassin: a shortsword crossed by a dagger, the same emblem that would be cast in bronze and set over his father's grave. Esther would probably be watching in secret. He was surprised that, for the first time, he thought of Esther with affection. And, when he stood before the mayor's dwelling in the center of the village, he thought of Sisebat. A servant answered the door. "I wish to see the mayor -- to thank him for sparing my life." The servant (who was a human) bowed to Joseph and ushered him into a large hall. "This way, please." The funniest, fastest saga of tomorrow's interstellar war that you ever read! Complete Short Novel by Harry Harrison Don't miss it! Marchand's life was In vain -- but his failure was his greatest possible success r orman Marchand sat in the I wings of the ballroom's small stage, on a leather hassock someone had found for him. There were fifteen hundred people outside in the ballroom, waiting to do him honor. Marchand remembered the ballroom very well. He had once owned it. Forty... no, it wasn't forty. Not even fifty. Sixty years ago it 'j had been, sixty and more years ago , that he and Joyce had danced in that j ballroom. Then the hotel was the j newest on Earth and he was the ;'j newly married son of the man who 'J had built it, and the party was the J reception for his wedding to Joyce.  Of course, none of these people J no would know about that. But Marchand remembered... Oh, Joyce, my very clear! But she had been dead a long time now. It was a noisy crowd. He peered out through the wings, and could was the Vice-President of the United States shaking hands with the Governor of Ontario as though, for the moment, they had forgotten they were of different parlies. There was Linfox, from the Institute, obligingly helping a chimpanzee into the chair next to what, judging by the microphones ranked before it, would probably be Marchand's own. Linfox seemed a little ill at ease with the chimp. The chimpanzee had no doubt been smithed, but the imposition of human intelligence did not lengthen its ape's legs. Then Dan Fleury appeared, up the steps from the floor of the ballroom where the rest of the fifteen hundred diners were taking their places. Fleury didn't look well at all, Marchand thought -- not without a small touch of satisfaction, since Fleury was fifteen years younger than himself. Still, Marchand wasn't jealous. Not even of the young bellman who had brought him the hassock, twenty years at the most and built like a fullback. One life was enough for a man to live. Especially when you had accomplished the dream you had set out to bring to fruition. Or almost. Of course, it cost him everything his father left. But what else was money for? "It's time to go in, sir. May I help you!" It was the young fullback nearly bursting his bellman's uniform with the huge hard muscles of youth. He was very solicitous. One of the nice things about having this testimonial dinner in a Marchand hotel was that the staff was as deferential to him as though he still owned the place. Probably that was why the committee had picked it, Marchand ruminated, quaint and old-fashioned as the hotel must seem now. Though at one time -- He recollected himself. "I'm sorry, young man. I was -- woolgathering. Thank you." He stood up, slowly but not very painfully, considering that it had been a long day. As the fullback walked him onto the stage the applause was enough to drive down the automatic volume control on his hearing aid. For that reason he missed the first words from Dan Fleury. No doubt they were complimentary. Very carefully he lowered himself into his chair, and as the clapping eased off he was able to begin to hear the words. D ; an Fleury was still a tall man, built like a barrel, with bushy eyebrows and a huge mane of hair. He had helped Marchand's mad project for thrusting man into space from its very beginnings. He said as much now. "Man's grandest dream!" he roared. "The conquering of the stars themselves! And here is the one man who taught us how to dream it, Norman Marchand!" Marchand bowed to the storm of applause. Til Again his hearing aid saved his ears and cost him the next few words: " -- and now that we are on the threshhold of success," Fleury was booming, "it is altogether fitting that we should gather here tonight... to join in fellowship and in the expression of that grand hope... to rededicate ourselves to its fulfillment... and to pay our respects, and give of our love, to the man who first showed us what dream to have!" power of Dan Fleury 's oratory Marchand smiled out on the foggy sea of faces. It was, he thought, almost cruel of Fleury to put it like that. The threshhold of success indeed! How many years now had they waited on it patiently? -- and the door still locked in their faces. Of course, he thought wryly, they must have calculated that the testimonial dinner would have to be held soon unless they wanted a cadaver for a guest. But still... He turned painfully and looked at Fleury, half perplexed. There was something in his tone. Was there -- Could there be -- There could not, he told himself firmly There was no news, no breakthrough, no report from one of the wandering ships, no dream come true at last. He would have been the first to know. Not for anything would they have kept a thing like that from him. And he did not know that thing. " -- and now," Fleury was saying, "I won't keep you from your dinners. There will be many a long, strong speech to help your digestions afterwards, I promise you! But now, let's eat!" Laughter. Applause. A buzz and clash of forks. The injunction to eat did not, of course, include Norman Marchand. He sat with his hands in his lap, watching them dig in, smiling and feeling just a touch deprived, with the wry regret of the very old. He didn't envy the young people anything really, he told himself. Not their health, their youth or their life expectancy. But he envied them the bowls of ice. He tried to pretend he enjoyed his wine and the huge pink shrimp in crackers and milk. According to Asa Czerny, who ought to know since he had kept Marchand alive this long, he had a clear choice. He could eat whatever he chose, or he could stay alive. For a while. And ever since Czerny had been good enough, or despairing enough, to give him a maximum date for his fife exectancy, Marchand had in idle moments tried to calculate just how much of those remaining months he good meal. He rather believed that when Czerny looked up at him after the weekly medical checkup and said that only days were left, that he would take those last days and trade them in for a sauerbraten with potato pancakes and sweet-sour red cabbage on the side. But that time was not yet. With any kind of luck he still had a month. Perhaps as much as two... "I beg your -- pardon," he said, half-turning to the chimpanzee. Even smithed, the animal spoke so poorly that Marchand had not at first known that he was being addressed. He should not have turned. His wrist had lost its suppleness; the spoon in his hand tilted : the soggy crackers fell. He made the mistake of trying to move his knee out of the way -- it was bad enough to be old, he did not want to be sloppy -- and he moved too quickly. The chair was at the very edge of the little platform. He felt himself going over. Ninety-six is too old to be falling on your head, he thought, if I was going to do this sort of thing I might just as well have eaten some of those shrimp... Blit he did not kill himself. He only knocked himself unconscious. And not for very long at that, because he began to wake up while they were still carrying him back to his dressing room behind the stage. O nce upon a time. Norman Marchand had given his life to a hope. Rich, intelligent, married to a girl of beauty and tenderness, he had taken everything he owned and given it to the Institute for Colonizing Extra-Solar Planets. He had, to bedollars. That was the whole of the personal fortune his father had left him, and it was nowhere near enough to do the job. It was only a catalyst. He had used it to hire publicity men, fund-raisers, investment counselors, foundation managers. He had spent it on documentary films and on TV commercials. With it he had financed cocktail parties for United States senators and prize contests for the nation's sixth grades, and he had done what he set out to do. He had raised money. A very great deal of money. He had taken all the money he had begged and teased out of the pockets of the world and used it to finance the building of twenty-six great ships, each the size of a dozen ocean liners, and he had cast them into space like a farmer sowing wheat upon the wind. I tried, he whispered to himself, returning from the darkest place he had ever seen. I wanted to see man reach out and touch a new home... and I wanted to be the one to guide him there... And someone was saying: " -- he know about it, did he? But we were trying to keep it quiet -- " Someone else told the first person to shut his mouth. Marchand opened his eyes. Czerny was there, unsmiling He saw that Marchand was conscious. "You're all right," he said and Marchand knew that it was true, since Czerny was scowling angrily at him. If the news had been bad he would have smiled -- "No you don't!" cried Czerney, catching him by the shoulder. "You stay right there. You're going home to bed." "But you said I was all right." "I meant you were still breathing. Don't push it, Norm." Marchand protested, "But the dinner -- I ought to be there -- " Asa Czerny had cared for Marchand for thirty years. They had gone fishing together, and once or IF twice they had gotten drunk. Czerny would not have refused for nothing. He only shook his head. Marchand slumped back. Behind Czerny the chimpanzee was squatting silently on the edge of a chair, watching. He's worried, Marchand though. Worried because he feels it's his fault, what happened to me. The thought gave him enough strength tosay: "Stupid of me to fall like that, Mr. -- I'm sorry." Czerny supplied the introduction. "This is Duane Ferguson, Norman. He was supernumary on the Copernicus. Smithed. He's attending the dinner in costume, as it were." The chimpanzee nodded but did not speak. He was watching that silvertongued orator, Dan Fleury, who seemed upset. "Where is that ambulance?" demanded Czerny, with a doctor's impatience with internes, and the fullback in bellman's uniform hurried silently away to find out. T he chimpanzee made a barking sound, clearing his throat. "Ghwadd," he said -- more or less: the German ich sound followed by word "what" -- "Ghwadd did jou mee-an aboud evdial, Midda Vleury?" Dan Fleury turned and looked at the chimp blankly. But not, Marchand thought suddenly, as though he didn't know what the chimp was talking about. Only as if he didn't intend to answer. Marchand rasped, "What's this 'evdial' Dan?" "Search me. Look, Mr Ferguson, perhaps we'd better go outside." "Ghwadd?" The harsh barking voice struggled against the simian body it occupied, and came closer to the sounds it meant to emit. "What did you bean -- did you mean?" He was a rude young man, Marchand thought irritably. The fellow was tiring him. Although there was something about that insistent question -- Marchand winced and felt for a moment as though he were going to throw up. It passed, leaving him wobbly. It wasn't possible he had broken anything, he told himself. Czerny would not lie about that. But he felt as if he had. He lost interest in the chimp-man, did not even turn his head as Fleury hurried him out of the room, whispering to him in an agitated and lowpitched chirrup like the scratching of a cricket's legs. If a man wanted to abandon his God-given human body and put his mind, thoughts and -- yes -- soul into the corpus of an anthropoid, there was nothing in that to entitle him to any special consideration from Norman Marchand. Of course not! Marchand rehearsed the familiar argument as he waited for the ambulance. Men who volunteered for the interstellar flights he had done so much to bring about knew what they were getting into. Until some frabjous super-Batman would always be so. At possible speeds -- less than light's # mps crawl -- it was a matter of decades to reach almost every worthwhile planet that was known. The Smith process allowed these men to use their minds to control chimpanzee bodies -- easily bred, utterly expendable -- while their own bodes rested in the deep-freeze for all the long years between the stars. It took brave men, naturally. They were entitled to courtesy and consideration. But so was he, and it was not courteous to blather about "evdial". whatever that was, while the man who had made their trip possible was seriously injured... Unless... Marchand opened his eyes again. "Evdiat." Unless "evdial" was the closest chimpanzee vocal chords and chimpanzee lips could come to -- to --  -- unless what they had been talking about, while he was unconscious, was that utterly impossible, hopeless and fantastic dream that he, Marchand, has had turned his back upon when he began organizing the colonization campaign. Unless someone had really found II A s soon as he was able the next day, Marchand got himself into a wheelchair -- all by himself, he didn't want any help in this -- and rolled it out into the chartroom of the home the Institute had given him rentfree for all of his life. (He had, of course, given it in the first place to the Institute.) The Institute had put three hundred thousand dollars into the chart room. Stayed and guy wired stars flecked the volume of a forty-'o.H ballroom, representing in scale all the space within fifty-five light-years of Sol. Every star was mapped and tagged. They had even moved a few of them slightly, a year ago, to correct for proper motion: it was that carefully done. The twenty-six great starships the Institute had financed were there, too, or such of them as were still in space. They were out of scale, of course, but Marchand understood what they represented. He rolled his chair down the marked path to the center of the room and sat there, looking around, just under yellow Sol. There was blue-white Sirius dominating them all, Procyon hanging just above. The two of them together were incomparably the brightest objects in the room, though red Altair was brighter in its own right than Procyon. In the center of the chamber Sol and Alpha Centauri A made a brillant pair. He gazed with rheuming eyes at that greatest disappointment of his life Alpha Centauri B. So close. So right. So sterile. It was an ironic blunder of creation that the nearest and best chance of another home had never formed planets... or had formed them and swept them into the Bode-area traps set by itself and its two companions. But there were other hopes... Marchand sought and found Tau Ceti, yellow and pale. Only eleven light-years away, the colony should be definitely established by now. In another decade or less they should have an answer... if, of course, it IF had planets Man could live on. That was the big question, to which they had already received so many "nos". But Tau Ceti was still a good bet, Marchand told himself stoutly. It was a dimmer, cooler sun than Sol. But it was type G, and according to spectropolarimetry, almost certainly planetiferous. And if it were another disappointment -- Marchand turned his eyes to # Eridani A, even dimmer, even farther away. The expedition to # Eridani A had been, he remembered, the fifth ship he had launched. It ought to be reaching its destination soon -- this year, or perhaps next. There was no sure way of estimating time when the top velocity was so close to light's own... But now of course the top velocity was more. The sudden wash of failure almost made him physically ill. Faster than light travel -- why, how dared they! But he didn't have time to waste on that particular emotion, or indeed on any emotion at all. He felt time draining away from him and sat up straight again, looking around. At ninety-six you dare not do anything slowly, not even daydream. H e glanced at, and dismissed, Procyon. They had tried Procyon lately -- the ship would not be even halfway. They had tried almost everything. Even Epsilon Eridani and Groombridge #; even, far down past the probable good bets among the spectroscopic classes, #I Cygni A and Epsilon Indi, a late and despairing try at Proxima Centauri (though they were very nearly sure it was wasted, the Alpha Centauri expedition had detected nothing like viable planets.) There had been twenty-six of them in all. Three ships lost, three returned, one still Earthbound. Nineteen were still out there. Marchand looked for comfort at the bright green arrow that marked where the Tycho Brahe rode its jets of ionized gas, the biggest of his ships, three thousand men and women. It seemed to him that someone had mentioned the Tycho Brahe recently. When? Why? He was not sure, but the name stuck in his mind. The door opened and Dan Fleury walked in, glancing at the arrayed stars and ships and not seeing them. The chart room had never meant anything to Fleury. He scolded, "Damn it, Norman, you scared us witless! Why you're not in the hospital now -- " "I was in the hospital, Dan. I wouldn't stay. And finally I got it through Asa Czerny's head that I meant it, so he said I could come home if I would stay quiet and let him look in. Well, as you see, I'm quiet. And I don't care if he looks in. I only care about finding out the "Oh, cripes, Norm! Honestly, you shouldn't worry yourself -- " "Dan, for thirty years you've never used the word 'honestly' except when you were lying to me. Now give. I sent for you this morning because you. know the answer. I want it." " For God's sake, Dan." Fleury glanced around the room, as though he were seeing the glowing points of light for the first time... perhaps he was, Marchand thought. He said at last, "Well, there is something." Marchand waited. He had had a great deal of practice at waiting. "There's a young fellow," said Fleury, starting over again. "He's named Eisele. A mathematician, would you believe it? He's got an idea." Fleury pulled over a chair and sat down. "It's far from perfect," he added. "In fact," he said, "a lot of people think it won't work at all. You know the theory, of course. Einstein, Lorentz-Fitzgerald, the whole roster -- they're all against it. It's called -- get this!  -- polynomiation." He waited for a laugh, hopelessly. Then he said, "Although I must say he appears to have something, since the tests -- " Marchand said gently and with enormous restraint: "Dan, will you please spit it out? Let's see what you said so far. There's this fellow named Eisele and he has something and it's crazy but it works." "Well -- yes." Marchand slowly leaned back and closed his eyes. "So that means that we were all wrong. Especially me. And all our work -- " "Look, Norman! Don't ever think like that. Your work has made it all the difference. If it weren't for you, people like Eisele never would have had the chance. Don't you know he was working under one of our grants?" "No. I didn't know that." Marchand's eyes went out to the Tycho Brahe for a moment. "But it doesn't help much. I wonder if fifty-odd thousand men and women who have given most of their lives to the deepfreeze because of -- my work -- will feel the way you do. But thanks. You've told me what I want to know." W hen Czerny entered the chart room an hour later Marchand said at once, "Am I in good enough shape to stand a smith?" The doctor put down his bag and took a chair before he answered. "We don't have anyone available, Norman. There hasn't been a volunteer for years." "No. I don't mean smithed into a human body. I don't want any would-be suicide volunteer donors, you said yourself the smithed bodies sometimes suicided anyway. I'll settle for a chimp. Why should I be any better than that young fellow -- what's his name?" "You mean Duane Ferguson." "Sure. Why should I be any better than he is?" "Oh, cut it out, Norman. You're too old. Your phospholipids -- " "I'm not too old to die, am I? And that's the worst that could happen." "It wouldn't be stable! Not at your age; you just don't understand the chemistry. I couldn't promise you more than a few weeks." Marchand said joyously, "Really! I didn't expect that much. That's more than you can promise me now." The doctor argued, but Marchand had held up his end of many a hardIF fought battle in ninety-six years, and besides he had an advantage over Czerny. The doctor knew even better than Marchand himself that getting into a passion would kill him. At the moment when Czerny gauged the risk of a smith translation less than the risk of going on arguing about it, he frowned, shook his head grudgingly and left. Slowly Marchand wheeled after him. He did not have to hurry to what might be the last act of his life. There was plenty of time. In the Institute they kept a supply of breeding chimpahzees, but it would take several hours to prepare one. One mind had to be sacrificed in the smith imposition. The man would ultimately be able to return to his own body, his risk less than one chance in fifty of failure. But the chimp would never be the same. Marchand submitted to the beginnings of the irradiation, the delicate titration of his body fluids, the endless strapping and patching and clamping. He had seen it done and there were no surprises in the procedure... He had not known, however, that it would hurt so much. Ill T rying not to walk on his knuckles (but it was hard; the ape body was meant to crouch, the arms were too long to hang comfortably along his sides), Marchand waddled out into the pad area and bent his rigid chimp's spine back in order to look up at the hated thing. Dan Fleury came toward him. "Norm?" he asked tentatively. Marchand attempted to nod: it was not a success, but Fleury understood. "Norman," he said, "this is Sigmund Marchard raised one long arm and extended a hand that resisted being opened: it was used to being clawed into a fist. "Gongradulazhuns," he said, as clearly as he could. Virtuously he did not squeeze the hand of the young dark-eyed man who was bebeing introduced to him. He had been warned that chimpanzee strength maimed human beings. He was not likely to forget, but it was tempting to allow himself to consider it for a moment. He dropped the hand and winced as pain flooded through him. Czerny had warned him to expect it. Unstable, dangerous, won't last had rumbled through his conversation; and don't forget, Norman, the sensory equipment is set high for you; you're not used to so much input : it will hurt. But Marchand had assured the doctor he would not mind that, and indeed he didn't. He looked at the ship again. "Zo tliads id," he grumbled, and again bent the backbone, the whole barrel chest of the brute he occupied, to stare at the ship on the pad. It was perhaps a hundred feet tall. "Nod, mudge," he said scornfully. "De Zirian, dad was our firzd, zdood nine hoonderd feed dall and garried a dousand beople to Alpha Zendauri." "And it brought a hundred and fifty back alive." said Eisele. He didn't emphasize the words in any way, but he said it quite clearly. "I want to tell you I've always admired you, Dr. Marchand. I hope you won't mind my company. I understand you want to go along with me out to the Tycho Brahe." "Why zhould I mind?" He did, of course. With the best will in the world, this young fellow had thrown seventy years of dedication, plus a dollars of his own, countless hunernment handouts. f rom the pennies of school children -- tossed them all into the chamber pot and flushed them Into history. They would say: A nonce figure of the early twentyfirst century, Norman Marchand, or Marquand, attempted stellar colonization with primitive rocket-propelled craft. He was of course unsuccessful, and the toll of life and wealth in his ill-conceived venture enormous. However, after Eisle's faster-than-light became practicable... They would say that he was a failure. And he was. W hen Tycho Brahe blasted off to the stars massed bands of five hundred pieces played it to its countdown and television audiences all over the world watched it through their orbiting satellites. A president, a governor and half the senate were on hand. When Eisele's little ship took off to catch it and tell its people their efforts had been all in vain, it was like the departure of the #:# ferry for Jersey City. To that extent, thought Marchand, had Eisele degraded the majesty of starflight. Yet he would not have missed it for anything. Not though it meant forcing himself as supercargo on Eisele, who had destroyed his life, and on the other smithed chimpanzee, Duane Ferguson, who was for some reason deemed to have special privileges in regard to the Brahe. Marchand heard one of the men call it a polyflecter, but he would not do it the honor of asking anyone what that meant -- for some reason. Because it was likely to break down, so spares were needed? Marchand dismissed the question, realizing that it had not been a fear but a hope. Whatever the reason he didn't care; he didn't want even to be here, he only regarded it as his inescapable duty. And he entered Eisele's ship. The interior of Eisele's damned ship was built to human scale, ninefoot ceilings and broad acceleration couches, but they had brought hammocks scaled to a chimpanzee torso for himself and Duane Ferguson. Doubtless they had looted the hammocks from the new ship. The one that would never fly -- or at least not on streams of ionized gas. And doubtless this was almost the last time that a man's mind would have to leave Earth in an ape's body. What Eisele's damned ship rode to the stars on in place of ionized gas Marchand did not understand. The whatcha-flecter, whatever the damned thing was named, was so tiny. The whole ship was a pigmy. There was no room for reaction '# IF mass, or at least only for enough to get it off-Earth. Then the little black box -- it was not really little, since it was the size of a grand piano; and it was not black but gray; but it was a box, all right -- would work its magic. They called that magic "polynomiation". What polynomiation was Marchand did not try to understand, beyond listening, or seeming to listen, to Eisele's brief, crude attempt to translate mathematics into English. He heard just enough to recognize a few words. Space was N dmensional. All right, that answered the whole question, as far as he was concerned and he did not hear Eisele's tortuous efforts to explain how one jacked oneself up, so, to speak, into a polynomial dimension -- or no, not that, but translated the existing polynomial extensions of a standard #-space mass into higher orders -- he didn't hear. He didn't hear any of it. What he was listening to was the deep liquid thump of the great ape's heart that now was sustaining his brain. Duane Ferguson appeared, in the ape's body that he would never leave now. That was one more count of Marchand's self-indictment; he had heard them say that the odds had worked against Ferguson, and his body had died in the imposition. As soon as he had heard what Eisele was up to, Marchand had seized on it as a chance for expiation. The project was very simple. A good test for Eisele's drive, and a mission of mercy, too. They intended to fleet after the plodding, long-gone Tycho Brahe and catch it in mid-space... for even now, thirty years after it had left Port Kennedy, it was still decelerating to begin its search orbit around Groombridge #. As Marchand strapped himself in, Eisele was explaining it all over again. He was making tests on his black box and talking at the same time: "You see, sir, we'll try to match course and velocity, but frankly that's the hard part. Catching them's nothing: we've got the speed. Then we'll transfer the extra polyflecter to the Tycho Brahe -- " "Yez, thanggs," said Marchand politely, but he still did not listen to the talk about the machine. As long as it existed he would use it, his conscience would not let him off that, but he didn't want details. Because the thing was, there were all those wasted lives. Every year in the Tycho Brahe's deep freeze means a month off the life of the body that lay there. Respiration was slowed, but it was not stopped. The heart did not beat but blood was perfused through a pump; tubes dripped sugar and minerals into the torpid blood, catheters carried wastes away. And Groombridge # was a flight of ninety years. The best a forty-year-old man could hope for on arriving was to be restored into a body whose biological age was nearly fifty -- while behind him on the Earth was nothing but a family long dead, friends turned into dust. It had been worth it. Or so the colonists had thought. Driven by the worm that wriggled in the spine of the explorer, the itch that drove him on; because of the wealth and the power and the freedom that a new world could give them, and because of the place they would have in the history books -- not Washington's place, or even Christ's. They would have the place of an Adam and an Eve. It had been worth it, all those thousands had thought when they volunteered and set out. But what would they think when they landed! If they landed without knowing the truth, if some ship like Eisele's did not reach and tell them in midspace, they would find the greatest disappointment any man had ever borne. The Groombridge # expedition aboard the Tycho Brahe still had forty years to go on its original trip plan. With Eisele's invention driving faster-than-light commerce, there would be a planet populated by hundreds of thousands of people, factories at work, roads built, the best land taken, the history books already into their fifth chapter... and what would the three thousand aging adventurers think then? Marchand moaned and shook, not entirely because the ship was taking off and the acceleration squeezed his rib cage down against his spine. W hen they were in the polyflecter's grip he floated across the pilot room to join the others. "I vas never in zpaze bevore," he said. Eisele said with great deference, "Your work was on the Earth." "Vas, yez." But Marchand left it at that. A man whose whole life was a failure owed something to humanity, and one of the things he owed was the privilege of allowing them to over look it. He watched carefully while Eisele and Ferguson read their instruments and made micrometric settings on the polyflecter. He did not understand anything about the faster-thanlight drive, but he understood that a chart was a chart. Here there was a doubly profiled representation of the course-line of the Groombridge # expedition. The Tycho Brahe was a point of light, some nine-tenths of the way from Sol to the Groombridge star in distance, which meant something under three-quarters of the way in time. "Mass detectors, Dr. Marchand," said Eisele cheerfully pointing to the charts. "Good thing they're not much closer, or they wouldn't have mass enough to show." Marchand understood: the same detectors that would show a sun or a planet would its speed were great enough to add sufficient mass. "And a good thing," added Eisele, looking worried, "that they're not much farther away. We're going to have trouble matching their velocity now, even though they've been decelerating for nine years... Let's get strapped in." From the hammock Marchand braced himself for another surge of acceleration. But it was not that, it was something different and far worse. It was a sausage-grinder, chewing his heart and sinews and spitting them out in strange crippled shapes. It was a wine-press, squeezing his throat, collapsing his heart. It was the giddy nausea of a roller-coaster or a small craft in a typhoon. Wherever it took them, the IF stars on the profile charts slipped and slid and flowed into new positions. Marchand, absorbed in the most crushing migraine of all but a century, hardly knew what was happening, but he knew that in the hours they found the Tycho Brahe, after giving it a thirty-year start. IV T he captain of the Tycho Brahe was a graying, yellow-fanged chimp named Lafcadio, his brown animal eyes hooded with shock, his long, stringy arms still quivering with the reaction of seeing a ship -- a ship -- and human beings. He could not take his eyes off Eisele, Marchand noted, and looked? It had been thirty years in an ape's body for the captain. The ape was old now. Lafcadio would be thinking himself more than half chimp already, the human frame only a memory that blurred against the everyday reminders of furry-backed hands and splayed prehensile feet. Marchand himself could feel the ape's mind stealing back, though he knew it was only imagination. Or was it imagination? Asa Czerny had said the imposition would not be stable -- something to do with the phospholipids -- he could not remember. He could not, in fact, remember anything with the clarity and certainly he could wish, and it was not merely because his mind was ninety-six years old. Without emotion Marchand realized that his measured months or weeks had dwindled to a few days. It could, of course, be the throbbing pain between his temples that was robbng him of reason. But Marchand only entertained that thought to dismiss it; if he had courage enough to realize that his life's work was wasted, he could face the fact that pain was only a secondorder derivative of the killer that stalked his ape's body. But it made it hard for him to concentrate. It was through a haze that he heard the talk of the captain and his crew -- the twenty-two smithed chimpanzees who superintended the running of the Tycho Brahe and watched over the three thousand frozen bodies in its hold. It was over a deep, confusing roar that he heard Eiesle instruct them in the transfer of the great, lumbering ark that his box could make fleet enough to span the stars in a day's journey. He was aware that they looked on him, from time to time, with pity. He did not mind their pity. He only asked that they allow him to live with them until he died, knowing as he knew that that would be no long time; and he passed, while they were still talking, into a painful, dizzying reverie that lasted until -- he did not know the measure of the time -- until he found himself strapped in a hammock in the control room of the ship, and felt the added crushing agony that told him they were once again slipping through the space of other dimensions. "Are you all right?" said a fami liar thick, slurred voice. It was the other, last victim of his blundering, the one called Ferguson. Marchand managed to say that he was. "Were almost there," said Ferguson "I thought you'd like to know. There's a planet. Inhabitable, they think." F rom Earth the star called Groombrige # was not even visible to the naked eye. Binoculars might make it a tiny flicker of light, lost among countless thousands of farther, but brighter, stars. From Groombridge # Sol was not much more. Marchand remembered struggling out of his hammock, overruling the worry on Ferguson's simian face, to look back at the view that showed Sol. Ferguson had picked it out for him, and Marchand looked at light that had been fifteen years journeying from his home. The photons that impinged on his eyes now had pauseed to drench the Earth in the colors of sunset when he was in his seventies and his wife only a few years mourned... He did not remember getting back to his haccock. He did not remember, either, at what moment of time someone told him about the planet they hoped to own. It hung low around the little orange disk of Groombridge # -- by solar standards, at least. The captain's first approximation made its orbit quite irregular, but at its nearest approach it would be less glowing fire-coal of its primary. Near enough. Warm enough. Telescopes showed it a planet with oceans and forests, removing the lingering doubts of the captain, for its orbit could not freeze it even at greatest remove from its star, or char it at closest -- or else the forest could not have grown. Spectroscopes, thermocouples, filarometers showed more, the instruments racing ahead of the ship, now in orbit and compelled to creep at rocket speeds the last little inch of its journey. The atmosphere could be breathed, for the ferny woods had flushed out the poisons and filled it with oxygen. The gravity was more than Earth's -- a drag on the first generation, to be sure, and an expense in foot troubles and lumbar aches for many more -- but nothing that could not be borne. The world was fair. Marchand remembered nothing of how he learned this, or of the landing, or of the hurried, joyful opening of the freezing crypts, the awakening of the colonists, the beginning of life on the planet... he only knew that there was a time when he found himself curled on a soft, warm hummock, and he looked up and saw sky.  T he protuberant hairy lip and sloping brows of a chimpanzee were hovering over him. Marchand recognized that young fellow Ferguson. "Hello," he said. "How long have I been unconscious?" The chimp said, with embarrassment, "Well -- you haven't been unconscious at all, exactly. You've been -- " His voice trailed off. "I see," said Marchand, and struggled up. He was grateful for the strength of the slope-shouldered. IF short-legged body he had borrowed, for this world he had come to had an uncomfortably powerful grip. The effort made him dizzy. A pale sky and thin clouds spiraled around him; he felt queer flashes of pain and pleasure, remembered tastes he had never experienced, felt joys he had never known... With an effort he repressed the vestigial ape and said, "You mean I've been -- what would you call it? Unstable? The smithing didn't quite take." But he didn't need confirmation from Feguson. He knew; and knew that the next time he slipped away would be the last. Czerny had warned him. The phospholipids, wasn't that it? It was almost time to go home... Off to one side he saw men and women, human men and women, on various errands and it made him ask: "You're still an ape?" "I will be for a while. Dr. Marchand. "My body's gone, you know." Marchand puzzled over that for a while. His attention wandering, he caught himself licking his forearm and grooming his round belly. "No!" he shouted, and tried to stand up. Ferguson helped him, and Marchand was grateful for the ape's strong arm. He remembered what had been bothering him. "Why?" he asked. "Why what, Dr. Marchand?" "Why did you come?" Ferguson said anxiously, "I wish you'd sit down till the doctor gets here. I came because there's someone on the Tycho Brahe I wanted to see." A girl? thought Marchand wonderingly, "And did you see her?" "Not her, them. Yes, I saw them. My parents. You see, I was two years old when the Tycho Brahe left. My parents were good breeding stock -- volunteers were hard to get then, they tell me -- oh, of course, you'd know better than I. Anyway they -- I was adopted by an aunt. They left me a letter to read when I was old enough... Dr. Marchand! What's the matter?" Marchand reeled and fell; he could not help it; he knew he was a spectacle, could feel the incongruous tears rheuming out of his beast eyes; but this last and unexpected blow was too harsh. He had faced the fact of fifty thousand damaged lives and accepted guilt for them, but one abandoned baby, left to an aunt and the apology of a letter, broke his heart. "I wonder why you don't kill me," he said. "Dr. Marchand! I don't know what you're talking about." "If only," said Marchand carefully, "I don't expect any favors, but if only there were some way I could pay. But I can't. I have nothing left, not even enough life to matter. But I'm sorry, Mr. Ferguson, and that will have to do." Ferguson said, "Dr. Marchand, if I'm not mistaken, you're saying that you apologize for the Institute." Marchand nodded. "But -- oh. I'm not the one to say this, but there's no one else. Look. Let me try to make it clear. The first thing the colonists did yesterday was choose a name for the planet. The vote was unanimous. Do you know what they called it?" Marchand only looked at him dully. "Please listen. Dr. Marchand. They named it after the man who inspired all their lives. Their greatest hero. They named it Marchand." Marchand stared at him, and stared longer, and then without changing expression closed his eyes. "Dr. Marchand!" said Ferguson tentatively, and then, seriously worried at last, turned and scuttled ape-like, legs and knuckles bearing him rapidly across the ground, to get the ship's doctor who had left him with strict orders to call him as soon as the patient showed any signs of life. When they got back the chimp was gone. They looked at the fronded forest and at each other. "Wandered off, I expect," said the doctor. "It may be just as well." "But the nights are cold! He'll get pneumonia. He'll die." "Not any more," said the doctor, as kindly as he could. "He's already dead in every way that matters." He bent and rubbed his aching thighs, worn already from the struggle against this new Eden's gravity, then straightened and looked at the stars in the darkening western sky. A bright green one was another planet of Groombridge #'s, farther out, all ice and copper salts. One of the very faintest ones, perhaps, was Sol. "He gave us these planets," said the doctor, and turned back toward the city. "Do you know what being a good man means, Ferguson? It means being better than you really are -- so that even your failures carry someone a little farther to success -- and that's what he did for us. I IF hope he heard what you were trying to tell him. I hope he remembers it when he dies," the doctor said. "If he doesn't," said Ferguson very clearly, "the rest of us always will." T he next day they found the curled-up body. It was the first funeral ever held on the planet, and the one that the history books describe. That is why, on the planet called Marchand, the statue at the spaceport has a small bas-relief carved over the legend: The bas-relief is the shape of a chimpanzee, curled on itself and looking out with blind, frightened eyes upon the world, for it was the chimpanzee's body that they found, and the chimpanzee's body that they buried under the monument. The bas-relief and the body, they are ape. But the statue that rises above The Place Where Readers And Editor Meet... Dear Editor: In my opinion If is at this moment the best science fiction magazine on the market. It contains everything that I could possibly want in an S.F. magazine, big name authors who continue to write some of the best stories available, plus a continuous supply of new authors who seem to be almost as good as the old reliable pros, also witty and informative editorials which seems to enhance the quality of the magazine. Put these all together, and they spell, in my opinion anyway, a great magazine. Just to make it plain that the purpose of this letter is not solely to butter you up, I have a complaint to make. It seems that through someone's fault I have not received the September issue of If. My first thought was that my subscription had run out, but on checking I found that I still had two issues of my sub still forthcoming. I hope that this mistake can be rectified soon, and my issue sent to me. I had especially wanted this issue since it contained the final installment of Robert A. Heinlein's Farnham's Freehold, but, aside from this slight mistake I have no other complaints to make, and in my opinion If is still the best S.F. magazines sold today. -- Charles J. Bing, #I Center Street, Jim Thorpe, Pennsylvania.  Hope you discovered the explanation by now. We had to omit the September issue because of printing difficulties. But hopefully we're straightened out now! -- Editor.    Dear Editor: I happened to see you on the Johnny Carson Tonight show, and I must say that you helped add to the more respectful attitude shown today towards science fiction. I feel that the trend is gradually swinging over to the romantic type of reading and that it will continue to do so as long as Galaxy, Worlds of Tomorrow, and If continue their remarkable output of entertaining and delightful science-fiction stories. The success of any magazine depends on the editor. There couldn't be any better editor than the one of the previously mentioned three magazines. As usual, the issue of If scored an excellent grade. Even though I am relatively new to reading science fiction, I haven't noticed one story published in If that did not measure up to its usually high standards. What I can't understand is why this certain magazine (I wonder which one) wins the Hugo every year. But I'm sure of one thing: Keep up the good work and the Hugo award for the best science fiction magazine for # will certainly go to IF. -- Calvin Cahan, # Lafayette, Omaha, Nebraska.    Dear Editor: With your knowledge of recent science fiction, you can perhaps answer a question: In what anthology or magazine can I find again a wonderful S.F. yarn about dogs? If you ever saw it, you will remember this plot. A space ship from a planet closely resembling Earth lands here. Its crew also closely resemble Earth people, so that they receive an enthusiastic welcome and when ready to return to their home, their ship is loaded with gifts from Earth. Among the gifts are a pair of fine dogs for breeding stock, as their planet has no dogs. While the ports of the space ship are open and the crew is taking a farewell look at their Earth friends, one of the crew (a co-pilot?) informs the captain that he understood the dogs' thoughts and warns the captain about burdening their planet with these parasitic pests whose only thought is to cajole and flatter human beings into sheltering and feeding and cherishing them for life, and giving nothing in return. The captain ridicules the warning. He cannot read the dogs' thoughts himself and already the dogs are licking his hand and showing all the signs of servile affection that all dogs use. The co-pilot sees that his warning is useless and plans to get rid of the dogs before the ship arrives home. But as he stands near an open port, one of the dogs suddenly shoves him out and he suffers a fatal fall to Earth, a few hundred feet below the open port. I have searched through a dozen anthologies and can't find it. I read it within the last three years, I'm sure. You may know of it. -- Dabney Horton, # Main Street, Northport, New York.    Dear Editor, You are correct; If has, for the last two issues, done all you claimed it was trying to do... adventure, excitement, color, drama, etc. You might just as well leave out "Hue and Cry", or at least cut i! down to never more than one and a half pages. Most of the letters are of more interest to you than to the readers (like this one). -- Irvin Koch, # Chattanooga Bank Building, Chattanooga, Tennessee #.    Dear Editor: You run a fine magazine but your geography ain't good. Potsdam is in East Germany and not very far from Berlin. If I am in Potsdam, engineering a communication system, I am in trouble. And if that's where you folks have been sending my mail, h is no wonder I have not heard from you. So please pass the word around that I am in Frankfurt am Main, in the German Federal Republic, a Part Of The Free World, and that I have never been, and am not now, affiliated with any organization, political party, or anything else Period. -- George O. Smith, Frankfurt am Main, West Germany.    Dear Editor: The March issue of If proved to be a quite a good one for two basic reasons. First, your all-Smith idea was good, and all the stories were of high quality. E.E. Smith's The Imperial Stars was different from the usual If material, but I think that it could have been improved with more work. The Store of Heart's Desires was the best story in the issue. It contained a plot that kept moving and only slowed up a few places. I like Cordwainer Smith's underpeople, and I am looking forward to more stories from him. Secondly, do you always drop such bombshells so casually? The announcement that If was going monthly bowled me over. I can't tell you how glad I am to hear it. If is really on the upswing. -- Paul Gilster, # Godwin Lane, St. Louis, Missouri.    Dear Editor: Because I am a younger generation reader of science fiction (I am fifteen years old) I don't know too much about the field as it was in its early days. I have read "Doc" Smith's yarns, The Skylark of Space, Skylark Three and Skylark of Valeron in recent paperback editions. They are pretty good stories, but I couldn't help but visualize a long string of Skylark stories, each beginning with a new revival of Dr. Marc DuQuesne and ending with Richard Seaton adding another, larger spaceship to his collection and a red feather to his cap to commemorate his mastery of another order of radiation. The other day I came upon an issue of If on the stands and was greatly surprised to read your announcement concerning Skylark DuQuesne. Good grief! How many Skylark stories have there been? -- Bill Beck, # Vassar Drive, Boulder, Colorado.    Dear Editor: If gets better by the issue. It couldn't be better except (and here I go with my two cents worth)...#) More Retief stories, please. #) More illustrations by Finlay and Gaughan (who has improved a lot in the last few issues). #) A book review column. #) A story or so by Theodore Sturgeon wouldn't be out of order. (And by the way, what happened to him? I didn't see his name on the content's page or any article by him.) #) I would like to see stories by Clifford Simak, Robert Sheckley and the light-hearted side of Isaac Asimov. -- Brian Baldwin, # Harding Road, Chattanooga, Tennessee. IF Imagine! Here's what you get... the button -- you can't make mistakes! Nothing to locus! Nothing to set or adjust! No double exposures! You get crisp, sharp blackand-whites. amazingly life-like color shots -- even slides -- with no effort at all! Commander Camera Retail Value: # I Roll Kodacolor Film Retail Value: #  Roll Kodak Black-and-White Film Retail Value: .# Pre paid Processing Certificate Retail Value: # (Good for # Jumbo Color Prints and I new fresh roll of Kodacolor Film!) # limited! Clip coupon and mail today! P.O. Box #. N.Y., N.Y. # extra charge). Total retail value: #. I pay only # plus # handling. (please print)  Send C.O.D. I am enclosing S# deposit and will pay postman #. plus # handling, plus postal charge.  I want #o save postal charges. I am enclosing #, plus # for handling. not completely pleased! Forgotten road to success in writing By J. D. Ratcliff I can't imagine why more beginners don't take the short road to publication -- by writing magazine and newspaper articles. I've made a good living for # years writing articles, and I've enjoyed every minute of it. I've interviewed Nobel Prize winners and heads of state. I've covered stories from Basel to Bangkok to Buffalo. It's a great life. No commuter trains to catch, no office routine. Whether I'm at home or abroad on assignment, I write from eight to noon every day -- no more, no less. My afternoons are my own. The market for articles is vast and hungry. Over # were sold last year to magazines alone. Editors want pieces on almost any subject that comes natural to you -- but they demand that your writing be sound and professional. To teach professional writing techniques to serious beginners, I joined with Rod Serling, Faith Baldwin, Bennett Cerf, and eight other leading authors to start the Famous Writers School. We poured everything we know about successful writing into a new kind of course which trains you at horne, in spare time. You begin with the fundamentals of all good writing. Then, you specialize in articles and other non-fiction. (Or in Fiction, Advertising or Business Writing.) You learn to write by writing. Our instructors, themselves all published authors, work with you by mail much as editors do with established writers. Our School is young. Yet students, many still in training, have broken into print' in more than # publications. Several sold pieces they wrote as School assignments. Writing Aptitude Test offered To find out if you too can be a published writer, send for the School's revealing Aptitude Test. If you test well -- or offer other evidence of writing ability -- you may enroll. However, there is no obligation to do so. "Jack" Ratcliff is one of America's highest paid free-lance writers. Although he works only four hours a day, he has had hundreds of articles published in top magazines, including over # in Reader's Digest alone. Famous Writers School Dept. #, Westport, Connecticut I want to know if I have writing aptitude. Please mail me, without obligation, your Aptitude Test and #-page brochure. Mr. Mrs Age Miss (please print) Street City Zone... , County State. The School is accredited by the Accrediting Commission of the National Home Study Council, Washington, D.C. AT THE TOP OF THE WORLD by J. T. MclNTOSH D Concluding -- He searched through time for a dreamand didn't know it when it came true! Imagine! Here's what you get... Commander Camera Retail Value: I Roll Kodacolor Film Retail Value: I Roil Kodak Black-and-White Film Retail Value: Pre-paid Processing Certificate Retail Value: (Good for # Jumbo Color Prints and I new fresh roll of Kodacolor Film!)  # # .# # # limited! Clip coupon and mail today! the button -- you can't make mistakes! Nothing to locus! Nothing to set or adjust! No double exposures! You get crisp, sharp blackand-whites, amazingly life-like color shots -- even slides -- with, no effort at all! P.O. Box #, N.Y... N.Y. # extra charge).' Total retail value: #. I pay only # plus # handling. (please print)  Send C.O.D. I am enclosing # deposit and will pay postman #, plus # handling, plus postal charges.  I want to save postal charges. I am enclosing #, plus # for handling. not completely pleased! Frederik Pohi, Editor Sol Cohen, Publisher Diane Sullivan, Associate Editor David Perton, Production Manager SmiAL -- Conclusion IF published monthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, Robert M. Guinn, President, Vol. #, No. #, Main Office; #I Hudson Street, New York #, New York. #c per copy. Subscriptions # issues # in the United States, Canada, Mexico, South America and Central America and U.S. possessions, elsewhere #. Second-clast postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All rights including translations reserved. AH material submitted must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelope. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories are fiction, and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in the U. S. A. by the Guinn Company, New York # N. Y. IF  Editorial H igh on the side of a hill outside San Francisco lives one of the finest science-fiction writers in the world. His name is Jack Vance and we had the pleasure of visiting his home a few weeks ago, during the course of the World Science Fiction Convention held in Berkeley. To reach the Vance estate you drive up a hill. Then you drive up a steeper hill. Then you drive up the steepest hill of all, shift into fourwheel drive, go a few yards further, then climb steps and ladders. His front lawn probably covers two or three acres -- stood on end. All in all it is a charming place, an unusual one, and just right for the author of such charming, unusual and by Masters y The Moon Moth and the one that starts in next isues's , The #t   The convention itself, by the way, was a first-rate affair, populated with such fine writers as Vance, Poul Anderson, Clifford D. Simak (who picked up a Hugo of his own for the story in last year's Galaxy, Here Gather the Stars), Frank Herbert, Anthony Boucher -- you name 'em. Awards were flowing like water, and, as a matter of fact, your editor acquired one too: The Invisible Little Men's Award, consisting of a mahogany base bearing the gold footprints of an invisible little man. Highlights of the affair were speeches by the joint guests of honor, Edmond Hamilton and Leigh Brackett, a talk on science fiction in movies and television by a man who is responsible for a lot of it, Harlan Ellison, a reminiscing talk by the fan guest of honor, Forrest J. Ackerman, and much more. If you haven't ever been to a science-fiction convention, you don't know what you're missing. Next year's will be in London... and what better reason could there be for a transAtlantic trip?   #  In every issue of If we run a "first" story by someone who has never before appeared in a professional magazine. This month's is L. D. Ogle's The Heat Racers, a fresh and pleasing tale. We're looking for more, you know. What about the rest of you out there? -- The Editor be generally tpld -- things you ought to know. Great truths are dangerous to some -- but factors for personal power and accomplishment in the hands of those who understand them. Behind the tales of the miracles and mysteries of the ancients, lie centuries of their secret probing into nature's laws -- their amazing discoveries of the hidden processes of mans mind, and the mastery of lifers problems. Once shrouded in mystery to avoid their destruction by mass fear and ignorance, these facts remain a useful heritage for the thousands of men and women who privately use them in their homes toaay, The Rosicrucians (not a religious organization) an age-old brotherhood of learning, have preserved this secret wisdom in their archives for centuries. They now invite you to share the practical helpfulness of their teachings. Write today for a free copy of the book, The Mastery of Life." Within its pages may lie a new life of opportunity for you. Address: Scribe p j p j Scribe  I I Sao Jose, California i j Please send me the free book. The Mastery j I of Ufe, which explains how I may learn to j I use my faculties and powers of mind.   I j Name :::  ! Address ' e Rosicrucians Oty. IF  Novelett When Time Was New Ife searched through time tor a dream -- and didn't know it when it came true! I to meet up with a stegosaurus sooner or later, but he hadn't expected to T he stegosaurus standing beneath meet up with a boy and a girl. What the ginkgo tree didn't surprise in the name of all that was MesoCarpenter, but the two kids sitting zoic were they doing in the upper in the branches did. He had expected Cretaceous Period! Maybe, he reflected, leaning forward in the driver's seat of his battery-powered triceratank, they were tied in in some way with the anachronistic fossil he had come back to the Age of Dinosaurs to investigate. Certainly the fact that Miss Sands, his chief assistant who had cased the place-time on the timescope, had said nothing about a couple of kids, meant nothing. Timescopes registered only the general lay of the land. They seldom showed anything smaller than a mediumsized mountain. The stego nudged the trunk of the gingko with a hip as high as a hill. The tree gave such a convulsive shudder that the two children nearly fell off the branch they were sitting on and came tumbling down upon the serrated ridge of the monster's back. Their faces were as white as the line of cliffs that showed distantly beyond the scatterings of dogwoods and magnolias and live oaks, and the stands of willows and laurels and fan palms, that patterned the prehistoric plain. Carpenter braced himself in the driver's seat. "Come on, Sam," he said, addressing the triceratank by nickname, "let's go get it!" S ince leaving the entry area several hours ago, he had been moving along in low gear in order not to miss any potential clues that might point the way to the anachronistic fossil's place of origin -- a locale which, as was usually the case with unidentifiable anachronisms, the paleontological society that employed him had been able to pinpoint much more accurately in time than in space. Now, he threw Sam into second and focused the three horn-howitzers jutting from the reptivehicle's facial regions on the sacral ganglion of the offending ornithischian. Plugg! Plugg! Plugg! went the three stun charges as they struck home, and down went the a posteriori section .of the stego. The anterior section apprised by the pea-sized brain that something had gone haywire, twisted far enough around for one of the little eyes in the pint-sized head to take in the approaching triceratank, whereupon the stubby forelegs immediately began the herculean task of dragging the tenton, humpbacked body out of the theater of operations. Carpenter grinned. "Take it easy, old mountainsides," he said. "You'll be on all four feet again in less time than it takes to say Tyrannosaurus rex'." After bringing Sam to a halt a dozen yards from the base of the ginkgo, he looked up at the two terrified children through the one-way transparency of the reptivehicle's skull-nacelle. If anything, their faces were even whiter than they had been before. Small wonder. Sam looked more like a triceratops than most real triceratops did. Raising the nacelle, Carpenter recoiled a little from the sudden contrast between the humid heat of the midsummer's day and Sam's airconditioned interior. He stood up in the driver's compartment and showed himself. "Come on down you two," he called. "Nobody's going to eat you.' f Two pairs of the widest and bluest eyes that he had ever seen came to rest upon his face. In neither pair, however, was there the faintest gleam of understanding. "I said come on down," he repeated. "There's nothing to be afraid of." The boy turned to the girl, and the two of them began jabbering back and forth in a sing-song tongue that resembled Chinese, but only as the mist resembles the rain. It had no more in common with modern American than its speakers had with their surroundings. Clearly they hadn't understood a word he had said. But, equally as clearly, they must have found reassurance in his plain and honest face, or perhaps in the gentle tone of his voice. After talking the matter over for a few moments, they left their aerie and shinned down the trunk, the boy going first and helping the girl over the rough spots. He was about nine; she was about eleven. Carpenter stepped out of the compartment, vaulted down from Sam's steel snout and went over to where they were standing. By this time, the stego had recovered the use of its hind legs and was high-tailing -- or rather, high-backing -- it over the plain. The boy was wearing a loose, apricot-colored blouse which was considerably stained and disheveled from his recent arboreal activities, a pair of apricot-colored slacks which were similarly stained and disheveled and which terminated at his thin calves and a pair of open-toe sandals. The girl's outfit was identical, save that it was azure in hue and somewhat less stained and disheveled. She was about an inch taller than the boy, but no less thin. Both of them had delicate features, and hair the color of buttercups, and both of them wore expressions so solemn as to be almost ludicrous. It was virtually a sure bet that they were brother and sister. G azing earnestly up into Carpenter's gray eyes, the girl gave voice a series of sing-song phrases, each of them, judging from the nuances of pronunciation, representative of a different language. When she finished. Carpenter shook his head. "I just don't dig you, pumpkin," he said. Then, just to make sure, he repeated the remark in Anglo-Saxon, Aeolic Greek, lovver Cro-magnonese, upper-Acheulian, middle English, Iroquoian and Hyannis-Portese smatterings of which tongues and dialects he had picked up during his various sojourns in the past. No dice. Every word he spoke was just plain Greek to the girl and the boy. Suddenly the girl's eyes sparkled with excitement, and, plunging her hand into a plastic reticule that hung from the belt that supported her slacks, she withdrew what appeared to be three pairs of earrings. She handed one pair to Carpenter, one to the boy, and kept one for herself; ' then she and the boy proceeded to affix the objects to their ear lobes, motioning to Carpenter to do the same. Complying, he discovered that the tiny disks which he had taken for pendants were in reality tiny diaphragms of some kind. Once the minute clamps were tightened into IF to place, they fitted just within the ear openings. The girl regarded his handiwork critically for a moment, then, standing on tiptoe, reached up and adiiisted each disk with deft fingers. Satisfied, she stepped back. "Now," she said, in perfect idiomatic English. 'we can get through to each other and find out what's what." C arpcnter stared at her. "Well I must say, you caught on to my langiia'c awful fast!" "Oh, we didn't learn it," the boy said. "Those are micro-translators -- hearrin:s. With them on, whatever we sav sounds to you the way you would say it, and whatever you say sounds to us the way we would say it." "I forgot I had them with me," said the girl. "They're standard travelers' equipment, but, not being a traveler in the strict sense of the word, I wouldn't have happened to have them. Only I'd just got back from foreign-activities class when the kidnapers grabbed me. Now," she went on, again gazing earnestly up into Carpenter's eyes, "I think it will be best if we take care of the amenities first, don't you? My name is Marcy, this is my brother Skip, and we are from Greater Mars. What is your name, and where are you from, kind sir?" I t wasn't easy, but Carpenter managed to keep his voice matter-of-fact. It was no more than fair that he should have. If anything, what he had to say was even more incredible than what he had just heard. "I'm Howard Carpenter, and Tm from Earth, # A. D. That's # years from now." He pointed to the triceratank. "Sam over there is my time machine -- among other things. When powered from an outside source, there's practically no limit to his field of operations." The girl blinked once, and so did the boy. But that was all. "Well," Marcy said presently, "that much is taken care of: you're from Earth Future and we're from Mars Present." She paused, looking at Carpenter curiously. "Is there something you don't understand, Mr. Carpenter?" Carpenter took a deep breath. He exhaled it. "In point of fact, yes. For one thing, there's the little matter of the difference in gravity between the two planets. Here on Earth you weigh more than twice as much as you weigh on Mars, and I can't quite figure out how you can move around so effortlessly, to say nothing of how you could have shinned up the trunk of that ginkgo tree." "Oh, I see what you mean, Mr. Carpenter," Marcy said. "And it's a very good point, too. But obviously you're using Mars Future as a criterion, and just as obviously Mars Future is no longer quite the same as Mars Present. I -- I guess a lot can happen in # years. Well, anyway, Mr. Carpenter," she continued, "the Mars of Skip's and my day has a gravity that approximates this planet's. Centuries ago, you see, our engineers artificially increased the existent gravity in order that no more of our atmosphere could escape into space, and sucIF cessive generations have adapted themselves to the stronger pull. Does that clarify matters for you, Mr. Carpenter?" He had to admit that it did. "Do you kids have a last name?" he asked. "No, we don't, Mr. Carpenter. At one time it was the custom for Martians to have last names, but when desentimentalization was introduced, the custom was abolished. Before we proceed any further, Mr. Carpenter, I would like to thank you for saving our lives. It -- it was very noble of you." "You're most welcome," Carpenter said, "but I'm afraid if we go on standing here in the open like this. I'm going to have to save them all over again, and my own to boot. So let's the three of us get inside Sam where it's safe. All right?" Leading the way over to the triceratank, he vaulted up on the snout and reached down for the girl's hand. After pulling her up beside him, he helped her into the driver's compartment. "There's a small doorway behind the driver's seat," he told her. "Crawl through it and make yourself at home in the cabin just beyond. You'll find a table and chairs arid a bunk, plus a cupboard filled with good things to eat. All the comforts of home." Before she could comply, a weird whistling sound came from above the plain. She glanced at the sky, and her face went dead-white. "It's them!" she gasped. "They've found us already!" Carpenter saw the dark wingedshapes of the pteranodons then. There were two of them, and they were homing in on the triceratank like a pair of prehistoric dive-bombers. Seizing Skip's hand, he pulled the boy up on the snout, set him in the compartment beside his sister, and told them to get into the cabin fast. Then he jumped into the driver's seat and slammed down the nacelle. Just in time: the first pteranodon came so close that its right aileron scraped against Sam's frilled headshield, and the second came so close that its ventral fuselage brushed Sam's back. Their twin tailjets left two double wakes of bluish smoke. n C arpenter sat up straight in the driver's seat. Ailerons? Fuselage? Tailjets? Pteranodons? He activated Sam's shield-field and extended it to a distance of two feet beyond the armor-plating, then he threw the reptivehicle into gear. The pteranodons were circling high overhead. "Marcy," he called, "come forward a minute, will you?" Her buttercup-colored hair tickled his cheek as she leaned over his shoulder. "Yes, Mr. Carpenter?" "When you saw the pteranodons, you said, 'They've found us already!' What did you mean by that?" "They're not pteranodons, Mr, Carpenter. Whatever pteranodons are. They're kidnapers, piloting military-surplus flyabouts that probably look like pteranodons. They abducted Skip and me from the preparatory school of the Greater Martian Technological Apotheosization Institute and are holding us for ransom. Earth is their hideout. There are three of them altogether -- Roul and Fritad and Holmer. One of them is probably back in the spaceship." Carpenter was silent for several moments. The Mars of # A.D. was a desolate place of rubble, sand and wind inhabited by a few thousand diehard colonists from Earth and a few hundred thousand diehard Martians, the former living beneath atmosphere-domes and the latter, save for the few who had intermarried with the colonists, living in deep caves where oxygen could still be obtained. But twenty-second century excavations by the Extraterrestrial Archaeological Society had unearthed unquestionable evidence to the effect that an ultra-technological civilization similar to that of Earth Present had existed on the planet over # years ago. Surely it was no more than reasonable to assume that such a civilization had had space travel. That being the case, Earth, during her uppermost Mesozoic Era, must have presented an ideal hideout for Martian criminals, kidnapers included. Certainly such a theory threw considerable light on the anachronisms that kept cropping up in Cretaceous strata. There was of course another way to explain Marcys and Skip's presence in the Age of DinosaOrs: they could be # A.D. Earth children, and they could have wOme back via time machine the same as he had. Or they could have been abducted by twenty-second century kidnapers for that matter, and have been brought back. But, that being so, why should they lie about it? "Tell me, Marcy," Carpenter said, "do you believe I came from the future?" "Oh, of course, Mr. Carpenter. And I'm sure Skip does, too. Its -- its kind of hard to believe, but I know that someone as nice as you wouldn't tell a fib -- especially such a big one." "Thank you," Carpenter said. "And I believe you came from Greater Mars, which, I imagine, is the planet's largest and most powerful country. Tell me something about your civilization." "It's a magnificent civilization, Mr. Carpenter. Every day we progress by leaps and bounds, and now that we've licked the instability factor, we'll progress even faster." " The instability factor'?" "Human emotion. It held us back for years, but it can't any more. Now, when a boy reaches his thirteenth birthday and a girl reaches her fifteenth, they are desentimentalizcd. And after that, they are able to make calm cool decisions strictly in keeping with pure logic. That way they can achieve maximum efficiency. At the Institute preparatory school. Skip and I are going through what is known as the 'pre-desentimentalization process.' After four more years we'll begin receiving dosages of the desentimentalization drug. Then -- " one of the pteranodons as it sideswiped the shield-field. IF Carpenter watched it as it wobbled wildly for a moment, and before it shot skyward he caught a glimpse of its occupant. All he saw was an expressionless face, but from its forward location he deduced that the man was lying in a prone position between the two twelve-foot wings. Marcy was trembling. "I -- I think they're out to kill us, Mr. Carpenter," she said. "They threatened to if we tried to escape. Now that they've got our voices on the ransom tape, they probably figure they don't need us any more." He reached back and patted her hand where it lay lightly on his shoulder. "It's all right, pumpkin. With old Sam here protecting you, you haven't got a thing to worry about." "Is -- is that really his name, "It sure is. Sam Triceratops, Esquire. Sam, this is Marcy. You take good care of her and her brother -- do you hear me?" He turned his head and looked into the girl's wide blue eyes. "He says he will. I'll bet you haven't got anybody like him on Mars, have you?" She shook her head -- as standard a Martian gesture, apparently, as it was a terrestrial -- and for a moment he thought that a tremulous smile was going to break up on her lips. It didn't, though -- not quite. "Indeed we haven't, Mr. Carpenter." He squinted up through the nacelle at the circling pteranodons (he still thought of them as pteranodons, even though he knew they were not). "Where's this spaceship of their's, Marcy? Is it far from here?" She pointed to the left. "Over there. You come to a river, and then a swamp. Skip and I escaped this morning when Fritad, who was guarding the lock, fell asleep. They're a bunch of sleepyheads, always falling asleep when it's their turn to stand guard. Eventually the Greater Martian Space Police will track the ship here; we thought we could hide out until they got here. We crept through the swamp and floated across the river on a log. It -- it was awful, with big snakes on legs chasing us, and -- and -- " His shoulder informed him that she was trembling again. "Look, I'll tell you what, pumpkin," he said. "You go back to the cabin and fix yourself and Skip something to eat. I don't know what kind of food you're accustomed to, but it can't be too different from what Sam's got in stock. You'll find some square, vacuum-containers in the cupboard -- they contain sandwiches. On the refrigerator-shelf just above, you'll find some tall bottles with circlets of little stars -- they contain pop. Open some of each, and dig in. Come to think of it. I'm hungry myself, so while you're at it, fix me something, too." Again, she almost smiled. "All right, Mr. Carpenter. I'll fix you something special." Alone in the driver's compartment, he surveyed the Cretaceous landscape through the front, lateral and rear viewscopes. A range of young mountains showed far to the left. To the right was the distant line of cliffs. The rear viewscope framed scattered stands of willows. fan palms and dwarf magnolias, beyond which the forested uplands, wherein lay his entry area, began. Far ahead, volcanos smoked with Mesozoic abandon. # yean from now, this territory would be part of the state of Montana. # years from now, a group of paleontologists digging somewhere in the vastly changed terrain would unearth the fossil of a modem man who had died # years before his disinterment. Would the fossil turn out to be his own! Carpenter grinned, and looked up at the sky to where the two pteranodons still circle. It could have been the fossil of a Martian. He turned the triceratank around and started off in the opposite direction. "Come on, Sam," he said. "Let's see if we can't find a good hiding place where we can lay over for the night. Maybe by morning I'll be able to figure out what to do. Who'd ever have thought we'd wind up playing rescue-team to a couple of kids?" Sam grunted deep in his gear box and made tracks for the forested uplands. T he trouble with going back in time to investigate anachronisms was that frequently you found yourself the author of the anachronism in question. Take the classic instance of Professor Archibald Quigley. Whether the story was true or not, no one could say for certain, but, true or not, it pointed up the irony of time travel as nothing else could. A stanch Coleridge admirer. Professor Quigley had been curious for years -- or so the story went -- as to the identity of the visitor who had called at the farmhouse in Nether Stowey in the county of Somersetshire, England in the year # and interrupted Coleridge while the poet was writing down a poem which he had just composed in his sleep. The visitor had hung around for an hour, and afterward Coleridge hadn't been able to remember the rest of the poem. As a result, Kubla Khan was never finished. Eventually, Professor Quigley's curiosity grew to such proportions that he could no longer endure it, and he applied at the Bureau of Time Travel for permission to return to the placetime in order that he might set his mind at ease. His request was granted, whereupon he handed over half his life-savings without a qualm in exchange for a trip back to the morning in question. Emerging near the farmhouse, he hid in a clump of bushes, watching the front door; then, growing impatient when no one showed up, ho went to the door himself, and knocked. Coleridge answered the knock personally, and even though he asked the professor in, the dark look that he gave his visitor was something which the professor never forgot to the end of his days. Recalling the story. Carpenter chuckled. It wasn't really anything for him to be chuckling about, though, because what had happened to the professor could very well happen to him. Whether he liked k or not, there was a good chance IF that the fossil which the North American Paleontological Society had sent him back to the Mesozoic Era to investigate might turn out to be his own. Nevertheless, he refused to let the possibility bother him. For one thing, the minute he found himself in a jam, all he had to do was to contact his two assistants, Miss Sands and Peter Detritus, and they would come flying to his aid in Edith the therapod or one of the other rephand. For ant .her, he had already learned that outside forces were at work in the Cretaceous Period. He wasn't the only candidate for fossildom. Anyway, worrying about such matters was a waste of time: what was going to happen had already happened, and that was all there was to it. S kip crawled out of the cabin and leaned over the back of the driver's seat. 'Marcy sent you up a sandwich and a bottle of pop, Mr. Carpenter," he said, handing over both items. And then, "Can I sit beside you, sir?" "Sure thing," Carpenter said, moving over. The boy climbed over the backrest and slid down into the seat. No sooner had he done so than another buttercup-colored head appeared. "Would -- would it be all right, Mr. Carpenter, if -- if -- " "Move over and make room for her in the middle. Skip." Sam's head was a good five feet wide, hence the driver's compartment was by no means a small one. But the seat itself was only three feet wide, and accommodating two half-grown kids and a man the size of Carpenter wasno small accomplishment, especially in view of the fact that all three of them were eating sandwiches and drinking pop. Carpenter felt like an indulgent parent taking his offspring on an excursion through a zoo. And such a zoo!, They were in the forest now, and around them Cretaceous oaks and laurels stood; there were willows, too, and screw pines and gingkos galore, and now and then they passed through incongruous stands of fan palms. Through the undergrowth they glimpsed a huge and lumbering creature that looked like a horse in front and a kangaroo in back. Carpenter identified it as an anatosaurus. In a clearing they came upon a struthiomimus and startled the ostrich-like creature half out of its wits. A spike-backed ankylosaurus glowered at them from behind a clump of sedges, but discreetly refrained from questioning Sam's right of way. Glancing into a treetop, Carpenter saw him first archaeopteryx. Rising his eyes still higher, he saw the circling pteranodons. He had hoped to lose them after entering the forest, and to this end he held Sam on an erratic course. Obviously, however, they were equipped with matter detectors. ' A more sophisticated subterfuge would be necessary. There was a chance that he might bring them down with a barrage of stun-charges, but it was a slim one and he decided not to try it in any event. The kidnapers undoubtedly deserved to die for what they had done, but he was not their judge. He would kill them if he had to, but he refused to do it as long as he had an ace up his sleeve. Turning toward the two children, he saw that they had lost interest in their sandwiches and were looking apprehensively upward. Catching their eye, he winked. "I think it's high time we gave them the slip, don't you?" "But how, Mr. Carpenter?" Skip asked. " They're locked right on us with their detector-beams. We're just lucky ordinary Martians like them can't buy super Martian weapons. They've got melters, which are a form of iridescers: but if they had real iridescers; we'd be goners." "We can shake them easy, merely by jumping a little ways back in lime. Come on, you two -- finish your sandwiches and stop worrying." Their apprehension vanished, and excitement took its place. Let's jump back six days," Marcy said. "They'll never find us then because we won't be here yet." "Can't do it, pumpkin -- it would take too much starch out of Sam. Time-jumping requires a tremendous amount of power. In order for a part-time time-machine like Sam to jump any great distance, its power has to be supplemented by the power of .a regular time station. The station propels the reptivehicle back to a pre-established entry area, and the time-traveler drives out of the area and goes about his business. The only way he can get back to the present is by driving back into the area, contacting the station and tapping its power-supply again, or by sending back a distress signal and having someone come to get him in another reptivehicle. At the most, Sam could make about a four-day round trip under his own power but it would burn him out. Once that happened, even the station couldn't pull him back. I think we'd better settle for an hour." I ronically, the smaller the temporal distance you had to deal with, the more figuring you had to do. After directing the triceratank via the liaison-ring on his right index finger to continue on its present erratic course. Carpenter got busy with pad and pencil, and presently he began punching out arithmetical brain-twisters on the compact computer that was built into the control panel. Marcy leaned forward, watching him intently. "If it will expedite matters, Mr. Carpenter," she said, "I can do simple sums, such as those you're writing down, in my head. For instance, # times #I equals #." "It may very well at that, pumpkin, but I think we'd better check and make sure, don't you?" He punched out the first two sets of numerals on the calculator, and depressed the multiplication button. # the answer panel said. He nearly dropped the pencil. "She's a mathematical genius," Skip said. "I'm a mechanical genius IF myself. That's how come we were kidnaped. Our government values geniuses highly. They'll pay a lot of money to get us back." "Your government? I thought kidnapers preyed on parents, not governments." "Oh, but out parents aren't responsible for us any more," Marcy explained. "In fact, they've probably forgotten all about us. After the age of six, children become the property of the state. Modern Martian parents are desentimentalized, you see, and don't in the least mind getting rid of -- giving up their children." Carpenter regarded the two solemn faces for some time. "Yes," he said, "I do see at that." With Marcy's help, he completed the rest of his calculations; then he fed the final set of figures into Sam's frontal ganglion. "Here we go, you two!" he said, and threw the jumpback switch. There was a brief shimmering effect and an almost imperceptible jar. So smoothly did the transition take place that Sam did not even pause in his lumbering walk. C arpenter turned his wristwatoh back from #:# P.M. to #:# P.M. "Take a look at the sky now, kids. See any more pteranodons?" They peered up through the foliage. "Not a one, Mr. Carpenter," Marcy said, her eyes warm with admiration. "Not a single one!" "Say, you've got our scientists beat forty different ways from Sunday!" Skip said. "They think they're pretty smart, but I'll bet they've never even thought of trying to travel in time... How far can you jump into the future Mr. Carpenter -- in a regular time-machine, I mean?" "Given sufficient power, to the end of time -- if time does have an end. But traveling beyond one's own present is forbidden by law. The powers-that-be in .# consider it bad for a race of people to find out what's going to happen to them before it actually happens, and for once I'm inclined to think that the powers-that-be are right." He discontinued liaison control, took over manually and set Sam on a course at right angles to their present direction. At length they broke free from the forest onto the plain. In the distance the line of cliffs that he had noticed earlier showed whitely against the blue and hazy sky. "How'd you kids like to camp out for the night?" he asked. Skip's eyes went round. "Camp out, Mr. Carpenter?" "Sure. We'll build a fire, cook our food over it, spread our blankets on the ground -- regular American Indian style. Maybe we can even find a cave in the cliffs. Think you'd like that?" Both pairs of eyes were round now. "What's 'American Indian style,' Mr. Carpenter?" Marcy asked. He told them about the Arapahoes and the Cheyennes and the Crows and the Apaches, and about the buffalo and the great plains and Custer's last stand, and the Conestogas and the frontiersmen (the old ones, not the "new"), and about Geronimo aud Sitting Bull and Cochise, and all the while he talked their eyes remained fastened on his face as though it were the sun and they had never before seen day. When he finished telling them about the settling of the west, he told them about the Civil War and Abraham Lincoln and Generals Grant and Lee and the Gettysburg Address and the Battle of Bull Run and the surrender at Appomattox. He had never talked so much in all his life. He wondered what had come over him, why he felt so carefree and gay all of a sudden and why nothing seemed to matter except the haze-ridden Cretaceous afternoon and the two round-eyed children sitting beside him. But he did not waste much time wondering. He went on to tell them about the signing of the Declaration of Independence and the American Revolution and George Washington and Thomas Jefferson and Benjamin Franklin and John Adams, and about what a wonderful dream the founding fathers had had and about how much better it would have turned out if opportunistic men had not used it to further their own selfish end and about how relatively wonderful it had turned out anyway, despite the many crimes that had been committed in its name. By the time .he finished, evening was on hand. The white cliffs rose up before them, shouldering the darkening sky. At the base of the cliffs they found a jim-dandy of an untenanted cave, large enough to accommodate both Sam and themselves and with enough room left over to build a campfire. Carpenter drove the reptivehicle inside and parked it in the rear; then he extended the shieldfield till it included the cave, the side of the cliff and a large semi-circular area at the base of the cliff. After checking the "front yard" and finding that it contained no reptiles except several small and harmless lizards, he put the two children to work gathering firewood. Meanwhile, he generated a one-way illusion-field just within the shield field so that the forthcoming campfire would not be visible from without. There was plenty of firewood available in the form of dead laurel and dogwod branches. Soon a respectable pile of fuel reposed just within the mouth of the cave. By this time Skip, at least, had shed his reserve. "Can I help build the fire, Mr. Carpenter?" he cried jumping up and down. "Can I -- can I -- can I?" "Skip!" Marcy said. "Its all right, pumpkin," Carpenter told her. "You can help, too, if you like." T he walls of the cave turned red, then rosy, as young flames grew into full-fledged ones. Carpenter opened three packages of frankfurters and three packages of rolls and showed his. charges how to spear the frankfurters on the end of pointed sticks and roast them over the fire. Afterward he demonstrated how to place a frankfurter in a roll and smother it with mustard, pickle relish, and chopped onions. It was i# IF as though he had flung wide magic casements opening on enchanted lands that the two children had not dreamed existed. The last vestiges of solemnity departed from their faces, and during the next half hour they created and consumed six hot dogs apiece. Skip got so excited that he nearly fell into the fire, and the smile that had been trying all afternoon to break upon Marcy's lips at last came through, teaching the flames to burn bright. Carpenter had made a pot of cocoa in Sam's kitchenette, and nothing more was needed to round out the cookout except marshmallows. Was it remotely possible, he wondered, that his efficient chief assistant had included such nostalgic delicacies among the various supplies in Sam's tail-compartment? It was doubtful at best, but he took a look anyway. To his delight, he found a whole box of them. Again, he performed a demonstration, while the two children looked on in open-mouthed awe. When the two marshmallows which he had speared on his stick turned golden brown he thought for a moment that Skip's eyes were going to fall out of his head. As for Marcy, she just stood, there and stared as though Carpenter had said, "Let there be light!" and the first day had come into being. Laughing, he removed the marshmallows and handed one to each of them. "Skip!" xMarcy said when the boy popped his into his mouth and dispatched it with a single gulp, "where are your manners?" She ate her's daintily. After the marshmallow roast, ht went outside and cut enough laurel and dogwood branches for three mattresses. He showed the children how to arrange the branches on the cavern floor and how to cover them with the blankets which he took out of Sam's tail-compartment. Skip needed no further invitation to turn in: exhausted from his enthusiastic activities and becalmed by his full stomach, he collapsed upon his blanket as soon as he had it in place. Carpenter got three more blankets, covered him with one of them and turned to Marcey, "You look tired, too, pumpkin." "Oh, but I'm not, Mr Carpenter. Not in the least bit. I'm two years older than Skip, you know. He's just a kid." H e folded the remaining two blankets into impromptu pillows and placed them a few feet from the fire. He sat down on one of them; she sat down on the other. All evening, grunts and growls and groans had been coming sporadically from beyond the shield-field; now they were supplanted by an awesome noise that brought to mind a gigantic road-repair machine breaking up old pavement. The cavern floor trembled, and the firelight flickered wildly on the wall. "Sounds like old tyrannosaurus," Carpenter said. "Probably out looking for a midnight snack in the form of a struthiomimus or two." " 'Tyrannosaurus,' Mr. Carpenter?" He described the ferocious theropod for her. S#ic nodded after he had finished, and a shudder shook her. "Yes," she said, "Skip and I saw one. It was a little while after we crossed the river. We -- we hid in a clump of bushes till he passed. What terrible creatures you have here on Earth, Mr. Carpenterl" "They no longer exist in my day and age," Carpenter said. "We have terrible 'creatures' of another order -- 'creatures' that would send old tyrannosaurus high-tailing it for the hills like a flushed rabbit. I shouldn't be complaining, though. Our technological debauchery left us with a cold-war hangover -- sure; but it. paid off in quite a number of things. Time travel, for one. Interplanetary travel, for another." At this point, the road-repair machine struck a bad stretch of pavement, and, judging from the ungodly series of sound that ensued, blew a rod to boot. The girl moved closer to him. "Take it easy pumpkin. There's nothing to worry about. An army of theropods couldn't break through that shield-field." "Why do you call me 'pumpkin', Mr. Carpenter? On Mars, a pumpkin is an unpleasant squashy vegetable that grows in swamps and midden-marshes." He laughed. The sounds from beyond the shield-field diminished, then faded away, as the theropod thundered off in another direction. "On Earth, a pumpkin is quite a nice vegetable -- or maybe it's a fruit. Whichever, it's quite respectable. But that's beside the point. 'Pumpkin' is what a man calls a girl when he likes her." There was a silence. Then, "Do you have a real girl, Mr. Carpenter?" "Not actually, Marcy. You might say that figuratively speaking I worship one from afar." "That doesn't sound like very much fun. Who is she?" "She's my chief assistant at the North American Paleontological Society where I work -- Miss Sands. Her first name is 'Elaine', but I never call her by it. She sees to it that I don't forget anything when I retro-travel, and she cases the placetimes over a time-scope before I start out. Then she and my other assistant, Peter Detritus,' stand by, ready to come to the rescue if I should send back a can of chicken soup. You see, a can of chicken soup is our distress signal. It's about as big an object as a paleontologivehicle can handle in most cases, and the word 'chicken' in our language cannotes fear." "But why do you worship her from afar, Mr. Carpenter?" "Well you see," Carpenter said, "Miss Sands isn't just an ordinary run-of-the-mill girl. She's the cool, aloof type -- a goddess, if you know what I mean. Although I don't see how you possibly could. Anyway, you simply don't treat goddesses the way you treat mere girls -- you keep your distance and worship them from afar and humbly wait for them to bestow favors upon you. I -- I worship her so much, in fact, that every time I'm near her I get so flustrated that I can hardly say anything. Maybe after I get to know her better it'll be different. So far. I've known her three months." IF H e fell silent. Marcys hearrings twinkled in the firelight as she turned and looked gently up into his face. "What's the matter, Mr, Carpenter -- cat got your tongue?" "I was just thinking," Carpenter said. "Three months is quite a long time at that -- long enough for a man to tell whether a girl is ever going to like him or not. And Miss Sands isn't ever going to like me -- I can see that now. Why, she doesn't even look at me unless she absolutely has to, and she won't say two words to me if she can possibly avoid it. So you see, even if I did stop worshipping her from afar and got up enough nerve to tell her that I love her, she would probably only be annoyed and tell me to get lost." Marcy was indignant. "She must be out of her mind, Mr. Carpenter -- just plain out of her mind. She should be ashamed of herself!" "No, Marcy -- you've got her all wrong. You can't expect a girl as beautiful as she is to go for a goodfor-nothing time-bum like me." "A good-for-nothing time-bum indeed! You know, Mr. Carpenter, I don't think you understand women very well. Why, I'll bet if you told her you love her, she'd throw herself into your arms!" "You're a romantic, Marcy. In real life, such things don't happen." He stood up "Well, young lady, I don't know about you, but I'm tired. Shall we call it a day?" "If you wish to, Mr Carpenter." She was asleep by the time he pulled her blanket up to her chin. As he stood there looking down at her, e turned on her side, and the firelight caught the buttercup-hue fuzz on the back of her neck, where her hair had been cut too short, and tinted it red-gold. All he could think of were buttercup-clad meadows in spring, and the warm clean sun rising and ushering in the dewjeweled day... After checking to see if Skip was all right, he went over and stood in the cave mouth and stared out into the darkness. With tyrannosaurus' departure, the lesser Cretaceous creatures had come out of their hiding places and were making their presence known again. He glimpsed the grotesque shapes of several ornithopods; he saw an ankylosaurus standing immobile by a coppice of fan palms; he heard lizards scurrying both inside and outside the shieldfield. A moon subtly different from the one he was most accustomed to was climbing into the prehistoric heavens. The difference lay in the number of meteorite craters. There were far fewer of them now than there would be # years in the future. He realized presently that although he was still looking at the moon he was no longer seeing it. He was seeing the campfire instead, and the girl and the boy enthusiastically roasting marshmallows. Why hadn't he gotten married and had children? he wondered suddenly. Why had he passed up all the pretty girls he had ever known, only to fall hopelessly in love at the age of thirty-two with a beautiful goddess who preferred not to know he was alive? What had given him the notion that the thrill derived from adventure was somehow superior to the contentment derived from loving and being loved? -- that getting the bugs out of historical and pre-historical times was more important than getting the bugs out of his own life? That a lonely room in a boarding house was a man's castle and that drinks drank in dim-lit bars with fun-girls he could no longer remember the next day spelled "freedom?" What treasure had he expected to find in the past that could equal the treasures he had passed up in the future? The night had grown chill. Before lying down to sleep he added more wood to the fire. He listened to the flames crackle and watched their pale flickerings on the cavern walls. A lizard regarded him with golden eyes out of prehistoric shadows. In the distance, an omithopod went Waroompfl Beside him in the Mesozoic night the two children breathed softly in their green-bough beds. Presently he slept. Ill T he next morning, Carpenter wasted no time in getting the show on the road Marcy and Skip were all for remaining in the cave indefinitely, but he explained to them that, were they to stay in one place, the kidnapers would find them that much sooner, and that therefore it would be better if they kept on the move. Thus far, everything he had told them had rung a bell in their language just as everything they had told him had rung a bell in his, but this time, for some reason, he had a hard time getting through to diem. Either t!iat, or they just plain didnt want to to leave the cave. Leave it they did however -- after ablutions performed in Sams compact lavatory and a breakfast of bacon and eggs cooked in Sam's kitchenette -- when he made it clear to them that he was still the boss. He hadn't as yet decided on a definite plan of action. While trying to make up his mind, he let the triceratank. pick its own course over the plain -- a feat for which its hypersensitive terrainometer more than qualified. Actually, he had only two choices: (#) -- continue to play big brother to the two children and elude the kidnapers until they gave up or until the cavalry, in the form of the Greater Martian Space Police, arrived on the scene, or (#) -- return to the entry-area and signal Miss Sands and Peter Detritus to bring the triceratank back to the present The second choice was by far the safer course of action. He would have settled for it without hesitation if it had not been for two things: (a) Marcy and Skip, while they undoubtedly would be able to adapt to a civilization as similar to their own as twenty-second century terrestrial civilization was, might never feel completely at home in it, and (b) sooner or later, they would come face to face with the demoralizing information that their own civilization of # years ago, had long since turned to dust and that the technological dreams which they had been taught to regard as gospel had come to nothing. A posIF sible third choice lay in taking them back to Earth Present, keeping them there until such time as the kidnapers gave up and left or until the Space Police showed up, and then returning them to Earth Past; but such a procedure would involve several round trips to the Cretaceous Period. Carpenter knew without having to ask that, owing to the fantastic expense involved, one such non-paleontological round trip, to say nothing of several. P ondering the problem, he became . aware that someone was tugging on his sleeve. It was Skip, who had come forward and climbed into the driver's seat. "Can I steer him, Mr. Carpenter? Can I?" Carpenter surveyed the plain through the front, lateral, and rear viewscopes; then he raised Sam's head and took a long look at the sky through the nacelle. A dark speck hovered high above the line of cliffs they had left less than an hour ago. As he watched, it was joined by two others. "Later on. Skip. Right now, I think we've got company." Skip's eyes had found the specks, too. "The pteranodons again, Mr. Carpenter?" "I'm afraid so." The specks grew rapidly larger, resolved into winged shapes with narrow, pointed heads. Marcy had come forward, and her gaze, too, was directed at the sky. This time, she didn't seem to be in the least bit frightened, and neither did Skip. "Are we going to jump back in time again, Mr. Carpenter?" she asked. "We'll see, pumpkin," he said. The pteranodons were clearly visible now. There was no question but what they were interested in Sam. Whether they would try attacking him again was another matter. In any event, Carpenter decided that, even though the triceratank's shield-field was in operation, his best bet would be to head for the nearest stand of trees. It was a stand of palmettos, and about half a mile distant. He threw Sam into high, and took over the controls again. "Come on, Sam," he said, to keep the kids' morale from faltering, "show Marcy and Skip what you can dol" Sam took off like a twentiethcentury locomotive, his flexible steel legs moving rhythmically, his alloyhoofs pounding the ground in a thunderous cadence. Nevertheless, he was no match for the pteranodons, and they overtook him easily. The foremost one swooped down a hundred yards ahead, released what looked like a big metal egg and soared skyward. The metal egg turned out to be a bomb. The crater that it created was so wide that it took all of Carpenter's skill to guide Sam around it without rolling the reptivehicle over. Instantly he revved up the engine and shifted into second. "They're not going to get us that way, are they, old timer?" he said. Carpenter glanced at the sky. All of the pteranodons were directly overhead now. Circling. One, two, three, he counted. Three... yesterday there had been only two. "Marcy," he said, suddenly excited, "how IF many kidnapers did you say there were?" "Three, Mr. Carpenter. Roul and Fritad and Holmer." "Then they're all up there. That means the ship is unguarded -- imless theres a crew." "No, Mr. Carpenter -- here's no crew. They did the piloting ttiemselves." He lowered his gaze from the circling pteranodons. "Do you kids think you could get inside?" "Easy," Skip said. "It's a militarysurplus flyabout-carrier with standard locks, and standard locks are simple for someone with a little mechanical ability to disengage. That's how come Marcy and I were able to escape in the first place. You just leave everything to me, Mr. Carpenter." "Good," Carpenter said. "We'll be diere waiting for them when they come back." W ith Marcy doing the figuring, retro co-ordinate calculus was a breeze. Sam was ready for jumpback in a matter of seconds. Carpenter waited till they were in the stand of palmettos, then he threw the switch. Again, there was a shimmering .effect and a slight jar, and daylight gave way to pre-dawn darkness. Behind them in a cave at the base of the cliffs, another triceratank stood, and another Carpenter and another Marcy and Skip still slept soundly in their green-bough beds. "How far did we jump back this time, Mr. Carpenter?" Skip asked. Carpenter turned on Sam's headlights and began guiding him out of the stand of palmettos. "Four hours. That should give us plenty of time to reach the ship and get set before our friends return. We may even reach it before they start out -- assuming of course that they haven't been searching for us round the clock." "But suppose they spot us in this time-phase?" Marcy objected. "Won't we be in the same pickle we just got out of?" "It's a possibility, pumpkin. But the odds have it overwhelmingly that they didn't spot us. Otherwise they wouldn't have gone on searching for us -- right?" She gazed at him admiringly. "You know something, Mr. Carpenter? You're pretty smart." Coming from someone who could multiply #I by # in her head, it was quite a compliment. However, Carpenter managed to take it in his stride. "I hope you kids can find the ship now, " ue said. "We're already on the right course," Skip said. "I know, because I've got a perfect sense of direction. It's camouflaged as a big tree." For the second time that morning, the sun came up. As had been the case yesterday, Sam's size and mien cowed the various Cretaceous creatures they met although whether tyrannosaurus would have been similarly cowed had they come upon him was a ' moot question at best. In any case, they didn't come upon him. By eight o'clock they were moving over the same terrain that Carpenter had come to not long after leaving the forested uplands the day before. "Look!" Marcy exclaimed presently. "There's the tree we climbed when the humpbacked monster chased us!" "It sure is," Skip said. "Boy, were we scared!" Carpenter grinned. "He probably thought you were some species of flora he hadn't tried yet. Good thing for his digestive system that I happened along when I did." They looked at him blankly for a moment, and at first he thought that the barriers of two different languages and two different thought worlds had been too high for his little joke to surmount. Such, however, did not prove to be the case. First Marcy burst out laughing, and then Skip. "Mr. Carpenter, if you aren't the darndest!" Marcy cried. T hey went on. The landscape grew more and more open, with coppices of palmettos and clusters of fan palms constituting most of the major plant-life. Far to the right, smoking volcanos added their discolored breath to the hazy atmosphere. In the distances ahead, mountains showed, their heads lost in the Mesozoic smog. The humidity was so high that large globules of moisture kept condensing on Sam's nacelle and rolling down like raindrops. Tortoises, lizards, and snakes abounded, and once a real pteranodon glided swiftly by overhead. At length they came to the river which Marcy had mentioned and which the increasing softness of the ground had been heralding for some time. Looking downstream, Carpenter saw his first brontosaurus. He pointed it out to the kids, and they stared at it bug-eyed. It was wallowing in the middle of the sluggish stream. Only its small head, its long neck, and the upper part of its back were visible. The neck brought to mind a lofty rubbery tower, but the illusion was marred by the frequency with which the head kept dipping down to the ferns and horse tails that lined the river bank. The poor creature was so enormous that it virtually had to keep eating day and night in order to stay alive. Carpenter found a shallows and guided Sam across the stream to the opposite bank. The ground was somewhat firmer here, but the firmness was deceiving, for the reptivehicle's terrainometer registered an even higher frequency of bogs. (Lord! Carpenter thought. Suppose the two kids had blundered into one!) Ferns grew in abundance, and there were thick carpets of sassafras and sedges. Palmettos and fan palms were still the rule, but there were occasional ginkgos scattered here and there. One of them was a veritable giant of a tree, towering to a height of over one hundred and fifty feet. Carpenter stared at it. Cretaceous Period ginkgos generally grew on highground, not low, but a ginkgo the size of this one had no business growing in the Cretaceous Period at all. Moreover, the huge tree was incongruous in other respects. Its trunk was far too thick, for one thing. For another, the lower part of it up to a height of about twenty IF feet consisted of three slender subtrunks, forming a sort of tripod on which the rest of the tree rested. At this point, Carpenter became aware that his two charges were pointing excitedly at the object of his curiosity "That's ur Skip exclaimed. "That's the ship!" "Well, no wonder it caught my eye," Carpenter said. "They didn't do a very good job of camouflaging it. I can even see one of the flyabout-bays." Marcy said. "They weren't particularly concerned about how it looks from the ground. It's how it looks from above that counts. Of course, if the Space Police get here in time they'll pick it up sooner or later on their detector-beams, but it will fool them for a while at least." "You talk as though you don't expect them to get here in time." "I don't. Oh, they'll get here eventually, Mr. Carpenter, but not for weeks, and maybe even months. It takes a long time for their radarintelligence department to track a ship, besides which it's a sure bet that they don't even know we've been kidnaped yet. In aJl previous cases where Institute children have been abducted, the government has paid the ransom' first and then notified the Space Police. Of course, even after the ransom has been paid and the children have been returned, the Space Police still launch a search for the kidnapers, and eventually they find their hideout; but naturally the kidnapers are long gone by then. "I think," Carpenter said, "that it's high time a precedent was established, don't you?"  A fter parking Sam out of sight in a nearly coppice of palmettos and deactivating the shield-field, he reached in under the driver's seat and pulled out the only hand weapon the triceratank contained -- a lightweight but powerful stun-rifle specially deof time-travel personnel. Slinging it on his shoulder, he threw open the nacelle, stepped out onto Sam's snout and helped the two children down to the ground. The trio approached the ship. Skip shinned up one of the landing jacks, climbed some distance up the trunk and had the locks open in a matter of seconds. He lowered an aluminum ladder. "Everything's all set, Mr. Carpenter." Marcy glanced over her shoulder at the palmetto coppice. "Will -- will Sam be all right do you think?" "Of course he will, pumpkin," Carpenter said. "Up with you now." The ship's air-conditioned interior had a temperature that paralleled Sam's, the lighting was cool, subdued. Beyond the inner lock, a brief corridor led to a spiral steel stairway that gave access to the decks above and to the engine rooms below. Glancing at his watch, which he had set four hours back, Carpenter saw that the time was #:#. In a few minutes, the pteranodons would be closing in on the Sam and Carpenter and Marcy and Skip of the "previous" time-phase. Even assuming that the three kidnapers headed straight for the ship afterward, there was still time to spare -- time enough, certainly, to send a certain message before laying the trap he had in mind. True, he could send the message after Roul and Fritad an Holmer were safely locked in their cabins, but in the event that something went wrong he might not be able to send it at all, so it was better to send it right now. "Okay, you kids," he said, "close the locks and then lead the way to the communications-room." They obeyed the first order with alacrity, but hedged on the second. Marcy lingered in the corridor. Skip just behind her. "Why do you want to go to the communications-room, Mr. Carpenter?" she asked. "So you kids can radio our position to the Space Police and tell them to get here in a hurry. You do know how, I hope." Skip looked at Marcy. Marcy looked at Skip. After a moment, both of them shook their heads. "Now see here," Carpenter said, annoyed, "you know perfectly well you know how. Why are you pretending you don't?" Skip looked at the deck. "We -- we don't want to go home. Mr. Carpenter." Carpenter regarded first one solemn face and then the other. "But you've got to be home! Where else can you go?" Neither of them answered. Neither of them look at him. "It boils down to this," he proceeded presently. "If we succeed in capturing Roul and Fritad and Holmer, fine and dandy. We'll sit tight, and when the Space Police get here we'll turn them over. But if something goes wrong and we don't capture them. we'll at least have an ace up our sleeve in the form of the message you're going to send. Now Fm familiar with the length of time it takes to get from Mars to Earth in the spaceships of my day, but I don't of course know how long your spaceships take. So maybe you two can give me some idea of the length of time that will elapse between the Space Police's receipt of our message and their arrival here on Earth," he asked. "With the two planets in their present positions, just over four days," Marcy said. "If you like, Mr. Carpenter, I can figure it out for you right down to a fraction of a -- " "That's close enough, pumpkin. Now, up the stairs with you, and you too. Skip. Time's a-wastingl" They complied glumly. The communications-room was on the second deck. Some of the equipment was vaguely familiar to Carpenter, but most of it was Greek. A wide, deckto-ceiling viewport looked out over the Cretaceous plain, and, glancing down through the ersatz foliage, he found that he could see the palmetto coppice in which Sam was hidden. He scanned the sky for signs of the returning pteranodons. The sky was empty. Turning away from the viewport, he noticed that a fourth party had entered the room. He unslung hds stun-rifle and managed to get it party's hand went, and the stun-rifle was no more. He looked incredulously down at his hand. IF IV T he fourth party was a tall, muscular man clad in clothing similar to Marcy's and Skip's, but of a much richer material. The expression on his narrow face contained about as much feeling as a dried fig, and the metal tube in his hand was now directed at the center of Carpenter's forehead. Carpenter didn't need to be told that if he moved so much as one iota he would suffer a fate similar to that suffered by his rifle, but the man vouchsafed the information anyway. "If you move, you melt," he said. "No Holmer!" Marcy cried. "Don't you dare harm him. He only helped us because he felt sorry for us." "I thought you said there were only three of them, pumpkin," Carpenter said, not taking his eyes from Holmer's face. "That is all there are, Mr. Carpenter. Honest! The third pteranodon must have been a drone. They tricked us!" Holmer should have grinned, but he didn't. There should have been triumph in his tone of voice when he addressed Carpenter, but there wasn't. "You had to be from the future, friend," he said. "Me and my buddies cased this place some time ago, and we knew you couldn't be from now. That being so, it wasn't hard for us to figure out that when that tank of your's disappeared yesterday you either jumped ahead in time or jumped back in it, and the odds were two to one that you jumped back. So we gambled on it, figured you'd try the same thing again if you were forced into it, and rigged up a little trap for you, which we figured you'd be smart enough to fall for. You were. The only reason I don't melt you right now is because Roul and Fritad aren't back yet. I want them to get a look at you first. I'll melt you then but good. And the brats, too. We don't need them any more." Carpenter recoiled. The dictates of pure logic had much in common with the dictates of pure vindictiveness. Probably the pteranodons had been trying to "melt" Marcy, Skip, Sam, and himself almost from the beginning, and if it hadn't been for Sam's shield-field, they undoubtedly would have succeeded. Oh well. Carpenter thought, logic was a twoedged blade, and two could wield it as well as one. "How soon will your buddies be back, Holmer?" The Martian regarded him blankly. Carpenter tumbled to the fact that the man wasn't wearing hearrings then. H e said to Marcy: "Tell me, pumpkin, if this ship were to fall on its side, would either the change in its position or its impact with the ground be liable to set off an explosion? Answer me with a 'yes' or a 'no' so that our friend here won't know what we're talking about." "No, Mr. Carpenter." "And is the structure of the ship sturdy enough to prevent the bulkheads from caving in on us?" "Yes, Mr. Carpenter." "How about the equipment in this room. Is it bolted down securely enough to prevent its being torn loose?" "Yes, Mr. Carpenter." "Good. Now, as surreptitiously as you can, you and Skip start sidling over to that steel supporting pillar in the center of the deck. When the ship starts to topple, you hold on for dear life." "What's he saying to you, kid?" Holmer demanded. Marcy stuck her tongue out at him. "Wouldn't you like to know!" she retorted. Obviously, the ability to make calm, cool decisions strictly in keeping 'with pure logic did not demand a concomitant ability to think fast, for it was not until that moment, that the desentimentalized Martian realized that he alone of the four persons present was not wearing hearrings. Reaching into the small pouch that hung at his side, he withdrew a pair. Then, keeping his melter directed at Carpenter's forehead with one hand, he began attaching them to his ears with the other. Meanwhile, Carpenter ran his right thumb over the tiny, graduated nodules of the liaison-ring on his right index finger, and when he found the ones he wanted, he pressed them in their proper sequence. On the plain below, Sam stuck his snout out of the palmetto coppice. Carpenter concentrated, his thoughts riding the tele-circuit that now connected his mind with Sam's sacral ganglion: Retract your hornhowitzers and raise your nacelleshield, Sam. Sam did so. Now, back off, get a good run, charge the landing-jack on your right, and knock it out. Then get the hell out of the way! Sam came out of the coppice, turned and trotted a hundred yards out on the plain. There he turned again, aligning himself for the forthcoming encounter. He started out slowly, geared himself into second. The sound of his hoofbeats climbed into a thunderous crescendo and penetrated the bulkhead of the com munications-room, and Holmer, who had finally gotten his hearrings into place, gave a start and stepped over to the viewport. By this time Sam was streaking toward the ship like an ornithischian battering-ram. No one with an IQ in excess of # could have failed to foresee what was shortly going to happen. Holmer had an IQ considerably in excess of #, but sometimes having a few brains is just as dangerous as having a little knowledge. It was so now. Forgetting Carpenter completely, the Martian threw a smafl lever to the right of the viewscope, causing the thick, unbreakable glass to retract into the bulkhead; then he leaned out through the resultant aperture and directed his melter toward the ground. Simultaneously, Sam made contact with the landing-jack, and Holmer went flying through the aperture like a jet-propelled Darius Green. The two kids were already clinging to the supporting pillar. With a leap, Carpenter joined them. "Hang on, you two!" he shouted, and proIF ceeded to practice what he preached. The downward journey was slow at first, but it rapidly picked up momentum. Somebody should have yelthat didn't dissuade the ginkgo from pered, tortoises scrabbled and sauropact tore both Carpenter and the children from the pillar, but he managed to' grab them and cushion their fall with his body. His back struck the bulkhead, and his breath blasted from his lungs. Somebody turned out the lights. A t length, somebody turned them back on again. He saw Marcy's face hovering like a small pale moon above his own. Her eyes were like autumn asters after the first frost. She has loosened his collar and she was patting his cheeks and she was crying. He grinned up at her, got gingerly to his feet and looked around. The communicationsroom hadn't changed any, but it looked different. That was because he was standing on the bulkhead instead oi on the deck. It was also because he was still dazed. Marcy, tears running down her cheeks, wailed, "I was afraid yo were dead, Mr Carpenter!" He rumpled her buttercup-colored hair. "Fooled you, didn't I?" At this point. Skip entered the room through the now horizontal doorway, a small container clutched in his hand. His face lit up when he saw Carpenter. "I went after some recuperative gas, but I guess yon don't need it after all. Gee, Fm glad you're all right, Mr. Carpenter!" "I take it you kids are, too," Carpenter said. He was relieved when both of them said they were. Still somewhat dazed, he clambered up the concave bulkhead to the viewport and looked out. Sam was nowhere to be seen. Remembering that he was still in telecircuit contact, he ordered the triceratank to home in, after which he climbed through the viewport, lowered himself to the ground and began looking for Holmer's body. When he failed to find it he thought at first that the man had survived the fall and had made off into the surrounding scenery. Then he came to one of the bogs with which the area was infested, and saw its roiled surface. He shuddered. Well, anyway, he knew who the fossil was. Or rather, who the fossil had been. Sam came trotting up, circumventing the bog in response to the terrainometer's stimuli. Carpenter patted the reptivehicle's head, which was not in the least damaged from its recent collision with the landing jack; then he broke off liaison and returned to the ship. Marcy and Skip were standing in the viewport, staring at the sky. Turning, Carpenter stared at the sky, too. There were three specks in it. His mind cleared completely then, and he lifted the two children down to the ground. "Run for Sam!" he said. "Hurry!" He set out after them. They easily outmatched his longer but far-slower strides, gaining the reptivehicle and clambering into the driver's compartment before he had covered half the distance. The pteranodons were close now, and he could see their shadows rushing toward him across the ground. Unfortunately, however, he failed to see the small tortoise that was trying frantically to get out of his way. He tripped over it and went sprawling on his face. Glancing up, he saw that Marcy and Skip had closed Sam's nacelle. A moment later, to his consternation the triceratank disappeared. Suddenly another shadow crept across the land, a shadow so vast that it swallowed those cast by the pteranodons. Turning on his side. Carpenter saw the ship. It was settling down on the plain like an extraterrestrial Empire State Building, and, as he watched, three rainbow-beams of light shot forth from its upper section and the three pteranodons went The Empire State Building came solidly to rest, opened its street doors and extended a gangplank the width of a Fifth Avenue sidewalk. Through the doors and down the sidewalk came the cavalry. Looking in the other direction. Carpenter saw that Sam had reappeared in exactly the same spot from which he had vanished. His nacelle had reopened, and Marcy and Skip were climbing out of die driver's compartment in the midst of a cloud of bluish smoke. Carpenter understood what had happened then, and he kissed the twenty-second century good-by. IF T he two kids came running up just as the commander of the cavalry stepped to the forefront of his troops. Actually, the troops were six tall Martians wearing deeppurple togas and stern expressions and carrying melters, while the commander was an even taller Martian wearing an even purpler toga and an even sterner expression and carrying what looked like a fairy godmother's wand. The dirty look which he accorded Carpenter was duplicated a moment later by the dirty look which he accorded the two children. They were helping Carpenter to his feet. Not that he needed help in a physical sense. It was just that he was so overwhelmed by the rapid turn of events that he couldn't quite get his bearings back. Marcy was sobbing. "We didn't want to burn Sam out, Mr. Carpenter," she said, all in a rush, "but jumping back four days, two hours, sixteen minutes and three and three-quarter seconds and sneaking on board the kidnaper's ship and sending a message to space Police Headquarters was the only way we could get them here in time to save your life. I told them what a pickle you'd be in, and to have their iridescers ready. Then, just as we were about to come back to the present Sam's time-travel unit broke down and Skip had to fix it, and then Sam went and burned out anyway, and oh, Mr. Carpenter, I'm so sorry! Now, you'll never be able to go back to the year # again and see Miss Sands, and -- " Carpenter patted her on the shoulder. "It's all right, pumpkin. Iti all right. You did the right thing, and I'm proud of you for it." shook his head in admiration."Yoo sure computed it to a T, didn't you?" A smile broke through the rain of tears, and the rain went away. "I'm -- I'm pretty good at computations, Mr. Carpenter." "But  threw the switch," Skip said. "And  fixed Sam's time-travel unit when it broke down." Carpenter grinned. "I know you did. Skip. I think the two of yon are just' wonderful." He faced the tall Martian with the fairy-godmother wand, noted that the man already had a pair of hearrings attached to his ears. "I guess I'm almost as beholden to you as I am to Marcy and Skip," Carpenter said, "and I'm duly grateful. And now I'm afraid Tdei going to impose on your good willstill further and ask you to take me to Mars with you. My reptivehicle'i burned out and can't possibly be repaired by anyone except a group of technological specialists working in an ultra-modern machine shop with all the trimmings, which means I have no way either of contacting the era from which I came, or of getting back to it." "My name is Hautor," the taB Martian said. He turned to Marcy. "Recount tome with the maximum degree of conciseness of which you are capable, the events beginning with your arrival on this planet and leading up to the present moment." Marcy did so. "So you see, sir," she concluded, "in helping Skip and me, Mr. Carpenter has got himself in quite a pickle. He can't return to his own era, and he can't survive in this one. We simply have to take him back to Mars with us, and that's all there is to it!" H autor made no comment. Almost casually, he raised his fairy godmother wand, pointed it toward the kidnapers' prostrate ship and did 'something to the handle that caused the wand proper to Presently a rainbow beam of light flashed forth from the Empire State Building, struck the kidnapers' ship and relegated it to the same fate as that suffered by the three pteranodons. Turning, Hautor faced two of his men. "Put the children on board the police cruiser and see to it that they are suitably cared for." Finally, he turned back to Carpenter. "The government of Greater Mars is grateful for the services you have rendered it in the preserving of the lives of two of its most valuable citizens-to-be. I thank you in its behalf. And now, Mr. Carpenter, good-by." Hautor started to turn away. Instantly Marcy and Skip ran to his side. "You can't leave him here!" Marcy cried. "He'll die!" Hautor signaled to the two Martians whom he had spoken to a moment ago. They leaped forward, seized the two children and began dragging them toward the Empire State Building. "Look," Carpenter said, somewhat staggered by the new turn of events, but still on his feet, "I'm not begging for my life, but I can do you people some good if you'll make room for me in your society. I can give you time travel, for one thing. For another -- " "Mr. Carpenter, if we had wanted time travel, we would have devised it long ago. Time travel is the pursuit of fools. The pattern of the past is set, and cannot be changed; and in it that has not already been done, why try? And as for the future, who but an imbecile would want to know what tomorrow will bring?" . "All right," Carpenter said. "I won't invent time travel then, I'll keep my mouth shut and settle down and be good solid citizen." "You wouldn't and you know it, Mr. Carpenter -- unless we desentiment alized you. And I can tell from the expression on your face that you would never voluntarily submit to such a solution. You would rather remain here in your prehistoric past and die." "Now that you mentioned it, I would at that," Carpenter said. "Compared to you people. Tyrannosaurus rex as a Salvation Army worker, and all the other dinosaurs, saurischians and ornithischians alike, have hearts of purest gold. But it seems to me that there is one simple thing which you could do in my behalf without severely affecting your desentimentalized equilibrium. You could give me a weapon to replace the one that Holmer disintegrated." Hautor shook his head. "That is one thing I cannot do, Mr. Carpenter, because a weapon could conceivably become a fossil, and thereby make me responsible for an anachronism. I am already potentially responsible for one in the form of Holmer's irretrievable body, and I IF refuse to risk being responsible for any more. Why do you think I iridesced the kidnapers' ship?" "Mr. Carpenter," Skip ciled from the gangplank, up which the two Martians were dragging him and his sister, "maybe Sam's not completely burned out. Maybe you can rev up enough juice to at least send back can of chicken soup," "Pm afraid no. Skip," Carpenter called back. "But it's all right, you kids," he went on, "Don't you worry about me -- Pll get along okay. Animals have always liked me, so why shouldn't reptiles! They're animals, too." "Oh, Mr. Carpenter!" Marcy cried. "Pm so sorry this happened! Why didn't you take us back to # witii you. We wanted you to all along, but we afraid to say so." "I wish I had, pumpkin -- I wish I had." Suddenly, he couldn't see very well, and he turned away. When he looked back, the two Martians were dragging Marcy and Skip through the locks. He waved. "Good-by, you kids," he called. "Pll never forget you." Marcy made a last desperate effort to free herself. She almost, but not quite, succeeded. The autumn asters of her eyes were twinkling with tears like morning dew. "I love you, Mr. Carpenter!" she cried, just before she and Skip were dragged out of sight. "Pll love you for the rest of my life!" With two deft movements, Hautor flicked the hearrings from Carpenter's ears; then he and the rest of e cavalry climbed the gangplank and entered the ship. Some cavalry! Carpenter thought. He watched the street doors close, saw the Empire State Building quiver. Presently it lifted and hovered majestically, stabbed into the sky just above the ground on a wash of blinding light. It rose, effortlessly, and became a star. It wasn't a falling star, but he wished in it anyway. "I wish both of you happiness, he said "and I wish that they never take your hearts away, because your hearts are one of the nicest things about you." The star faded then, and winked out. He stood all alone on the vast plain.  The ground trembled. Turning, he caught a great dark movement to the right ot a trio of fan palms. A moment later, he made out the huge head and the massive, upright body. He recoiled as two rows of saberlike teeth glittered in the sun. Tyrannosaurus! V A bumed-out reptivehicle was better than no reptivehicle at all. Carpenter made tracks for Sam. In the driver's compartment, with the nacelle tightly dosed, he watched the theropod's proach. There was no question but what it had seen him, and no question but what it was headed straight for Sam. Marcy and Skip had retracted the nacelle-shield, which left Carpenter pretty much of a sitting duck; however, he didn't retreat to Sam's cabin just yet, for they had also re-projected the horn-howitzers. #i Although the howitzers were no longer maneuverable, they were still operable. If the tyrannosaurus came within their fixed range it could be put temporarily out of action with a volley of stun-charges. Right now, it was approaching Sam at right angles to the direction in which the howitzers were pointing, but there was a chance that it might pass in front of them before closing in. Carpenter considered it a chance worth taking. He crouched low in the driver's seat, his right hand within easy reaching distance of the trio of triggers. With the air-conditioning unit no longer functioning, the interior ot the tricerafank was hot and stuffy. To add to his discomfort, the air was permeated with the acrid smell of burnt wiring. He shut his mind to both annoyances, and concentrated on the task at hand. The theropod was so close now that he could see its atrophied forelegs. They dangled down from the neckwidth shoulders like the wizened legs of a creature one tenth its size. Over them, a full twenty-five feet above the ground and attached to a neck the girth of a tree trunk, loomed the huge head; below them, the grotesque torso swelled out and down to the hind legs. The mighty tail dragged over the landscape, adding the cracking and splitting noises of crushed shrubbery to the thunder thrown forth each time the enormous bird-claw feet came into contact with the terrain. Carpenter should have been terrified. He was at a loss to understand why he wasn't. Several yards from the triceatank, the tyrannosaurus came to a hall and its partically opened jaws began opening wider. The foot-and-a-half-high teeth with which they were equipped could grind through Sam's nacelle as though it was made of tissue paper, and from all indications, that was just what they were going to do. Carpenter prepared himself for a hasty retreat int# Sam's cabin; then just when things looked blackest, the therodon, as though dissatisfied with its present angle of attack, moved around in front of the reptivehicle, providing him with the opportunity he had been hoping for. His fingers leaped to the first of tha trio of triggers, touched, but did-nol squeeze it. Why wasn't he afraid? Jle looked up through the nacelle at the horrendous head. The huge jaws had continued to part, and now the whole top of the skull was raising into a vertical position. As he stared, a pretty head of quite another nature appeared over the lower row of teeth and two bright blue eyes peered down at him. "Miss Sands!" he gasped, and nearly fell out of the drivers seat. R ecovering himself, he threw open the nacelle, stepped out on Sam's snout and gave the tyrrannosaurus an affectionate pat on the stomach. "Edith," he said. "Edith, you doll, you!" "Are you all right, Mr Carpenter?" Miss Sands called down. "Just fine," Carpenter said. "Am I glad to see youy Miss Sands!" Another head appeared beside IF Miss Sands. The familiar chestnut haired head of Peter Detritus. "Are you glad to see me too, Mr. Carpenter?" "Well, I guess, Pete old buddy!" Miss Sands lowered. Edith's lips ladder, and the two of them climbed down. Peter Detritus was carrying a low cable, and presently he proceed to affix it to Sam's snout and Edith tail respectively. Carpenter lent a hand. "How'd you know I was in a pickle?" he asked. T didn't send back any soup." "We had a hunch," Peter Eetritus said. He turned to Miss Sands. "There, she's all set, Sandy." "Well let's be on our way then," Miss Sands said. She looked at Carpenter, then looked quickly away, Tf, of course, your mission is completed, Mr. Cainter." Now that the excitement was over he was finding her presence just as disconcerting as he usually found h. "It's completed all right. Miss Sands," he said to the left pocket of her field blouse. "You'll never beBeve how it turned out, either." "Oh, I wouldn't say that. Sometimes the most unbelievable things of all turn out to be the most belie veable one. I'll fix you somediing to eat, Mr. Carpenter." She cliitibed agilely up the ladder. Carpenter followed, and Peter Detritus brought up the rear. "I'll take the controls, Mr. Carpenter," the latter said, pulling in the ladder. "You look bushed." "I am," Carpenter said. In Edith's cabin, he collapsed on the bunk. Miss Sands went over to the kitchenette and put water on to boil for coffee and took a boiled ham down from the refrigeratorshelf. Up in the driver's compartment, Peter Detritus closed the nacelle and threw Edith into gear. He was a good driver, Peter Detritus was, and he would rather drive than eat. Not only that, he could take a paleontologivehicle apart and put it back together again blindfolded. Funny, why he and Miss Sands had never gone for each other. They were both so attractive, you'd have thought they would have fallen in love long ago. Carpenter was glad that they hadn't of course -- not that it was ever going to do him any good. He wondered why they had made no mention of the Space Police ship. Surely, they must have seen it when it blasted off... Edith was moving over the plain in the direction of the uplands now, and through the cabin viewport he could see Sam shambling along behind on motion-provoked legs. In the kitchenette. Miss Sands was slicing ham. Carpenter concerntrated on her, trying to drive away the sadness he felt over his parting with Marcy and Skip. His eyes touched her slender shapely legs, her slender waist, rose to her cupreous head, lingering for a moment on the silken fuzz that grew charmingly on the back of her neck where her hair had been cut too short. Strange, how people's hair got darker when they grew older -- Carpenter lay motionlessly on the bunk. "Miss Sands," he said suddenly, "how much is #I times #?" "#I " Miss Sands answered. Abruptly she gave a start. Then she went on slicing ham. S lowly, Carpenter sat up. He lowered his feet to the floor. A tightness took over in his chest and he could barely breathe. Take a pair of lonely kids. One of them a mathematical genius, the other a mechanical genius. A pair of lonely kids who have never known what it is like to be loved in all their lonely lives. Now, transport them to another planet and put them in a reptivehicle that for all its practicability is still a huge and delightful toy, and treat them to an impromptu Cretaceous camping trip, and show them the first affection they have ever known. Finally, take these things away from them and simultaneously provide them with a supreme motivation for getting them back -- the need to have a human life -- and include in that motivation the inbuilt possibility that by saving that life they can -- in another but no less real sense -- save their own. But # years! # miles! It couldnt be! Why couldn't it?" They could have built the machine in secret at the preparatory school, all the while pretending to go along with the "pre-desentimentilization process"; then, just before they were scheduled to begin receiving doses of the desentimentalization drug, they could have entered the machine and time-jumped far into the future. Granted, such a timejump would have required a vast amount of power. And granted, the Martian landscape they would have emerged on would have given them the shock of their lives. But they were resourceful kids, easily resourceful enough to have tapped the nearest major power source, and certainly resourceful enough to have endured the climate and the atmosphere of Mars Present until they located one of the Martian oxygen caves. The Martians would have taken care of them and have taught them all they needed to know to pass themselves off as terrestrials in one of the domed colonies. As for the colonists, they wouldn't have asked too many questions because they would have been overjoyed to add two newcomers to their underpopulated community. After that, it would merely have been a matter of the two children's biding their time till they grew old enough to work and earn their passage to Earth. Once on earth, it would merely have been a matter of acquiring the necessary education to equip them for paleontological work. Sure, it would have taken them years to accomplish such a mission, but they would have anticipated that, and have time-jumped to a point in time far enough in advance of the year # A.D. to have enabled them to do what they had to do. They had played it pretty close at that, though. Miss Sands had only and as for Peter Detritus, he had been hired a month later. On Miss Sands' recommendation, of course. They had simply come the long IF way around -- that was all. Traveled # miles to Mars Past, # years to Mars Present, # miles to Earth Present, and # years to Earth Past. Carpenter sat there, stunned. Had they known they were going to turn out to be Miss Sands and Peter Detritus? he wondered. They must have -- or, if not, they must have gambled on it and taken the names when they joined the colonist. All of which created something of a paradox. But it was a minor one at best, not worth worrying about. In any event, the names certainly fitted them. But why had they passed themselves off as strangers? Well, they had been strangers, hadn't they? And if they had told him the truth, would he have believed them? Of course he wouldn't have. None of which explained why Miss Sands disliked him. But did she dislike him? Maybe her reaction to him resulted from the same cause that was responsible for his reaction to her. Maybe she worshipped him as much as he worshipped her, and became as tonguetied in his presence as he did in hers. Maybe the reason she had never looked at him any longer than was absolutely necessary was that she had been afraid of betraying the way she felt before he learned the truth about her. He found it suddenly hard to see. T he smooth purring of Ediths battery-powered motor filled the cabin. For quite sometime now there had been no other sound. "What's the matter?" Miss Sands said suddenly out of clear blue sky. "Cat got your tongue, Mr. Carpenter?" He stood up then. She had turned, and was facing him. Her eyes were misted, and she was looking at him gently, adoringly... the way she had looked at him last night, in one sense, and # years ago in another, by a Mesozoic campfire in an upper Cretaceous cave. Why Vll bet if you told her you loved her, she'd throw herself into your arms! "I love you, pumpkin," Carpenter said. Coming next month XF  Short Siorv #I ' c LIf the coldest place In the universe -- and the strangest! I n the coldest place in the solar system, I hesitated outside the ship for a moment. It was too dark out there. I fought an urge to stay close by the ship, by the comfortable ungainly bulk of warm metal which held the warm bright Earth inside it. "See anything?' asked Eric. "No, of course not. It's too hot here anyway, what with heat radiation from the ship. You remember the way they scattered away from the probe." "Yeah. Look, you want me to hold your hand or something? Go." I sighed and started off, with the heavy collector boimcing gently on my shoulder. I bounced too. The spikes on my boots kept me from sliding. I walked up the side of the wide, shallow crater the ship had created by vaporizing the layered air all the way down to the water ice level. Crags rose about me, masses of frozen gas with smooth, rounded edges. They gleamed soft white where the light from my headlamp touched them. Elsewhere all was as shone above the soft crags; but the light made no impression on the black land. The ship got smaller and darker and disappeared. There was supposed to be life IP # Short Storx ft ivcrs the coldest place In the universe -- and the strangest! I n the coldest place in the solar system, I hesitated outside the ship for a moment. It was too dark out there. I fought an urge to stay close by the ship, by the comfortable ungainly bulk of warm metal which held the warm bright Earth inside it. "See anything?" asked Eric. "No, of course not. It's too hot here anyway, what with heat radiation from the ship. You remember the way they scattered away from the probe." "Yeah. Look, you want me to hold your hand or something? Go." I sighed and started off, with the heavy collector bouncing gently on my shoulder. I bounced too. The spikes on my boots kept me from sliding. I walked up the side of the wide, shallow crater the ship had created by vaporizing the layered air all the way down to the water ice level. Crags rose about me, masses of frozen gas with smooth, rounded edges. They gleamed soft white where the light from my headlamp touched them. Elsewhere all was as shone above the soft crags; but the light made no impression on the black land. The ship got smaller and darker and disappeared. There was supposed to be life here. Nobody had even tried to guess what it might be like. I wo years ago the Messenger VI probe had moved into close orbit about the planet and then landed about here, partly to find out if the cap of frozen gasses might be inflammable. In the field of view of the camera during the landing, things like shadows had wriggled across the snow and out of the light thrown by the probe. The films had shown it beautifully. Naturally some wise ones had suggested that they were only shadows. I'd seen the films. I knew better. There was life. Something alive, that hated light. Something out there in the dark. Something huge... "Eric, you there?' "Where would I go?" he mocked me. "Well," said I, "If I watched every word I spoke I'd never get anything said." All the same, I had been tactless Eric had had a bad accident once, very bad. He wouldn't be going anywhere unless the ship went along. "Touche," said Eric "Are you getting much heat leakage from your suit?" "Very little." In fact, the frozen air didn't even melt under the pressure of my boots. "They might be avoiding even that little. Or they might be afraid of your light." He knew I hadn't seen anything; he was looking through a peeper in the top of my helmet. "Okay, I'll climb that mountain and turn it off for awhile." svim; my head so he could A see the mound I meant, then started up it. It was good exercise, and no strain in the low gravity. I could jump almost as high as on the Moon, without fear of a rock's edge tearing my suit. It was all packed snow, with vacuum between the flakes. My imagination started working again when I reached the top. There was black all around; the world was black with cold. I turned off the light and the world disappeared. I pushed a trigger on the side of my helmet and my helmet put the stem of a pipe in my mouth. The air renewer sucked air and smoke down past my chin. They make wonderful suits nowadays. I sat and smoked, waiting, shivering with the knowledge of the cold. Finally I realized I was sweating. The suit was almost too well insulated. Our ion-drive section came over very fast, and disappeared as it hit the planet's shadow. Time was passing. The charge in my pipe burned out and I dumped it. "Try the light," said Eric. I got up and turned the headlamp on high. The light spread for a mile around, white fairy landscape sprang to life, a winter wonderland doubled in spades. I did a slow pirouette, looking, looking... and saw it. Even this close it looked like a shadow. It also looked like a very flat, monstrously large amoeba, or like a pool of oil running across the ice. Uphill it ran, flowing slowly and painfully up the side of a nitrogen mountain, trying desperately to escape the searing light of my lamp. "The collector!" Eric demanded. I lifted the collector above my head and aimed it like a telescope at the fleeing enigma, so that Eric could find it in the collector's peeper. The collector spat fire at both ends and jumped up and away. Eric was controlling it now. After a moment I asked, "Should I come back?" "Certainly not. Stay there. I can't bring the collector back to the ship! You'll have to wait and carry if back with you." The pool-shadow slid over the edge of the hill. The flame of the collector's rocket went after it, flying high, growing smaller. It dipp below the ridge. A moment later I heard Eric mutter, "Got it." The bright flame reappeared, rising fast, then curved toward me. When the thing was hovering near me on two lateral rockets I picked it up by the tail and carried it home. no trouble," said Eric. "I  just used the scoop to nip a piece out of his flank, if so I may speak. I got about ten cubic centimeters of strange flesh." "Good," said I. Carrying the collector carefully in one hand, I went up the landing leg to the airlock. Eric let me in. I peeled off my frosting suit in the blessed artificial light of ship's day. "Okay," said Eric. "Take it up to the lab. And don't touch it." Eric can be a hell of an annoying character. "Eve got a brain," I snarled, "even if you can't see it." So can I. There was a ringing silence while we each tried to dream up an apology. Eric got there first. "Sorry," he said. "Me too." I hauled the collector off to the lab on a cart. He guided me when I got there. "Put the whole package in that opening. Jaws first. No, don't close it yet. Turn the thing until these lines match the lines on the collector. Okay. Push it in a little. Now close the door. Okay, Howie, I'll take it from there..." There were chugging sounds from behind the little door. "Have to wait 'til the lab's cool enough. Go get some coffee," said Eric. "I'd better check your maintenance." "Okay, good. Go oil my prosthetic aids." 'Prosthetic aids' -- that was a hot one. I'd thought it up myself. I pushed the coffee button so it would be ready when I was through, then opened the big door in the forward wall of the cabin. Eric looked much like an electrical network, except for the gray mass at the top which was his brain. In all directions from his spinal cord and brain, connected at the walls of the intricately shaped glass-and-soft-plastic vessel which housed him, Eric's nerves reached out to master the ship. The instruments which mastered Eric -- but he was sensitive about having it put that way -- were banked along boA IF sides of the closet. The blood pump pumped rhythmically, seventy beats a minute. "How do I look?" Eric asked. "Beautiful. Are you looking for flatteiy?" "Jackass! Am I still alive?" "The instruments think so. But I'd better lower your fluid temperature a fraction." I did. Ever since we'd landed I'd had a tendency to keep temperatures too high. "Everything else looks okay. Except your food tank is getting low." "Well, it'll last the trip." "Yeah. 'Scuse me, Eric, coffee's ready." I went and got it. The only thing I really worry about is his liver. It's too complicated. It could break down too easily. If it stopped making blood sugar Eric would be dead. If Eric dies I die, because Eric is the ship. If I die Eric dies, insane, because he can't sleep unless I set his prosthetic aids. I was finishing my coffee when Eric yelled. "Hey!" "What's wrong?" I was ready to run in any direction. "It's only helium!" He was astonished and indignant. I relaxed. "I get it now, Howie. Helium two. That's all our monsters are. Nuts." Helium two, the superfluid that flows uphill. "Nuts doubled. Hold everything, Eric. Don't throw away your samples. Check them for contaminants." "For what?" "Contaminants. My body is hydrogen oxide with contaminants. If the contaminants in the helium are complex enough it might be alive." "There are plenty of other substances," said Eric, "but I can't analyze them well enough. We'll have to rush this stuff back to Earth while our freezers can keep it cool." I got up. "Take off right now?" "Yes, I guess so. We could use another sample, blit we're just as likely to wait here while this one deteriorates." "Okay, I'm strapping down now. Eric?" "Yeah? Take off in fifteen minutes, we have to wait for the iondrive section. You can get up." "No, ril wait. Eric, I hope it isn't alive. I'd rather it was just helium two acting like its supposed to act." "Why? Don't you want to be famous, like me?" "Oh, sure, but I hate to think of life out there. It's just too alien. Too cold. Even on Pluto you could not make life out of helium two." "It could be migrant, moving to stay on the night side of the predawn crescent. Pluto's day is long enough for that. You're right, though; it doesn't get colder than this even between the stars. Luckily I don't have much imagination." Twenty minutes later we took off. Beneath us all was darkness and only Eric, hooked into the radar, could see the ice dome contracting until all of it was visible: the vast layered ice cap that covers the coldest spot in the solar system, where midnight crosses the equator on the IF  Novelette BY T . McIntosh Everyone knew no good would come of digging UP. Turned out that everyone was righti I F or the last month before Ascension Day there was only one topic in Gallery #. But there were # different opinions to be expressed. "The date is wrong," said old Modin uneasily. "I'm sure the date is wrong. It should be fifty yean from now, or a hundred years from now, or two hundred. If this is the first possible safe date in two hundred years, obviously three hundred would be safer. Or four hundred. Or five hundred." "Ascension Day!" said Loret skeptically, at a different time and in different company, for she was sixteen and interested in nothing that was not male, or fun, orjoth. "What's supposed to happen, for heaven's sake! What's special about digging upwards! When you dig up or down or sidewise, what do you ever find except rock and shale and stones and sometimes a spring? What's supposed to happen when we dig up from Tunnel # terminus, for heaven's sake? Why don't we just have a holiday and a festival on Ascension Day, and forget the whole crazy idea of digging upwards, for heaven's sake?" In the Council, Sim went further. "Surely," he said in his dry, rather pedantic voice, "the conception of digging upward is symbolic. Two centuries ago the Founders set a day for our thoughts, wishes and aspirations to turn upwards to higher, better things. The pasage of time, the distortion of ritual, has turned an abstract idea into a concrete one." Also at a Council meeting, old Zet said: "Doesn't the idea come from some two-hundred-year-old figure of speech which has struck? Like when cows fly' or 'once in a blue moon'? I think so. What's a 'blue moon' supposed to be? I guess the truth is that someone said once: 'We'll dig upwards in two hundred years,' intending to convey that nobody would ever dig upwards at all. Well, who but an idiot ever dug above his head? You're liable to bury yourself in stones, and what's the use of a vertical tunnel to nowhere anyway? Naturally when we want more space we dig horizontally. Multiple levels on top of one another merely raise scores of quite difficult and unnecessary engineering problems." Sinn, who talked a lot, naturally had more than one go at Ascension Day. "I am certain there is no more than religious significance in the tradition. The warning runs: Be ware the fire which sears the flesh. If it still burns, return to the Gal-lery at once and close the shaft for another hundred years. Now I can quote from old books to show that Ascension Day is mentioned by name in an ancient religion of a whatever that's supposed to mean. God who created heaven and earth, However, the meaning of our tradition is clear: Turn your thoughts upwards, and beware the fires of hell." Modin, too, had another crack at it. "Something terrible will happen if we ever dig up from Tunnel # ers knew about it. Perhaps there's a terminus," he warned. "The Foundvast sprint up there. Maybe once it's breached it can never be dartifned. What the legends mean is: Dig upwards at your peril. When you do, that will be the end of Galley #." But despite the fears of old Modin, the angry indifference of Loret (who wanted all the attention that was going and believed she had every right to get it), the pedantic skepticism of Sinn and the practical, down-to-earth objections of Zet, the general opinion was that of Sello, the Premier. Sello expressed the view simply: "There's a clear direction. At such and such a date, at a certain place, dig upwards for five thousand feet. That's exactly what we're going to do. Why not? The Founders believed it was to our advantage to do so. If we find it's not, we'll fill in the hole again." So matters stood until, just a week before Ascension Day, Sinn died. And the very next day, Modin died. Those who believed in signs had a field day. Modin was old, true, but Sinn was not. That the two principal opponents of Ascension Day should die just before it might have been taken as a sign that the Founders' instructions must be carried out literally. But the superstitious insisted on taking it the other way. To them, Sinn and Modin were prophets. Their deaths suddenly and dramatically increase the value and truth of their last statements. G allery #I was a warm, wellplanned hive housing # people in luxury. For twelve hours at a time the pale gray sky, fully twenty feet above the floor, was brightly lit. For the next twelve, only a faint gleam enabled those who had to be out by night to find their way about. The wide avenues, with their massive central pillars, were flanked by houses (houses, not cells) neatly inserted in the rock. Every fifty yards an air vent sighed softly. There was no transport system, although the question of providing one was considered every few years. It was sometimes necessary to walk several miles. But cattlemen were housed near the cattle, fishmongers near the stock pools, builders near the present construction site. "Some peopleware flabby enough as it is," Sello commented caustically when the question came up again. And once more the provision of a regular service of trains, trams, buses or cars was turned down. There were plenty of sports grounds and swimming pools. Centrally placed was a dog track. There was no great demand for further facilities, since no one in Gallery #I was overburdened with leisure. There was always plenty of work to be done. Every structure in the Gallery had to be regularly checked and overhauled -- occasional minor disasters were sufficient reminder of this. And the fact that neither property nor money could be willed to descendants ensured that nobody was ever relieved of the necessity ot having to work for a living. Gallery #I was not paradise. It was a moderately contented community, entirely self-supporting, peaceable, law-abiding. It had to be law-abiding, for in a closed community crime was a waste of time. You couldn't take the risk of seriously offending society when there was literally nowhere to go. And few crimes ever went unsolved. It would always be taken for granted that the criminal had not skipped town. However, as Ascension Day approached, the Gallery became slightly less law-abiding and considerably less peaceful. Ascension Day was such a big and obviously important thing that as the date came closer there was increasing unrest in the IF Gallery. People took sides and tempers were lost. The two sides were obvious. To dig or not to dig, that was the question. The issues were fairly obvious too. we're going to dig. What have we to lose? If we don't find anything or we don't like what we find, that's too bad. But suppose we do find something and do like what we find? we are. What more do we want! We've nothing to gain and everything to lose. Two hundred years ago, when Ascension Day was set, Gallery #I must have been a tiny, mp, overcrowded, uncomfortable cavern. Look at it now. What else do we need! Nothing. Nothing at all. n T Then Aleta came home on the   eve of Ascension Day to change out of her working clothes, she found her father looking unusually grave. Sello was a stocky man of fortyfive, a bmlder. As Premier he was the final arbiter in Gallery #, but he had a job like everybody else. The GoUty pay he received as Premier was an allowance to bring up his earnings .to what he would have received as a builder if his other duties, did not make demands on his time. "Aleta," he said, "you and Sep mean to go to the rally tonight, don't you?" She nodded and asked, "Why?" "It would be better if you didn't  go. She showed her surprise. "We're not taking sides. Pop, only going along to see what happens. What's the harm in that?" "No harm. But -- " He looked at her for several seconds. She was eighteen, and even in her dusty overall (she was a Sander) a very pretty girl. She had red hair and a neat, small-scale figure, exquisitely rounded. Sello knew he was lucky to have a child at all, in a community where population control was so rigidly enforced. He was ten times luckier to have such a child as Aleta -- beautiful, contented, intelligent, warmhearted. He could honestly say that if he had been granted the opportunity of drawing up the complete specifications for his daughter, she would have been exactly like Aleta. To add to all this, she had the sense to attract and be attracted by young Sep, a probable future Premier and exactly the son-in-law Sello would have chosen. "There's going to be trouble at the rally," Sello said at last. "It may get out of hand. People will be hurt." "Surely not. Pop?" said Aleta. "I know there have been fights already, but nothing very serious. What does fighting prove? If you're stronger than another man, does that prove what you believe is right and what he believes is wrong?" "I know that, Aleta. But do the people who will be at the rally know it?" IF She smiled. "Anyway, Sep can look after me." Sello still looked doubtful. "The old books talk of mobs and mob law. We've never had a mob before. We don't know what it's liable to do." Aleta laughed. "Pop, you're making it more and more impossible for me to stay away from the rally. But we'll be careful." She went to her bedroom to change. Having had her meals on the job, she merely had to wash and change before going out. Since there were no drones in the Gallery, since everyone spent most of every day except Sunday in working clothes, there had long been a tacit agreement that if you judged people by what they wore, you did so only in their leisure hours. Working clothes didn't even resemble leisure clothes. During the day you wore what your work demanded. In the evening you wore something as different from this as possible. Aleta chose a green and orange outfit provocative in its utter impracticality. Her orange blouse had double vertical ruffles at front and back; her wide green skirt swung from the hips over an orange sheath, ankle-length, which made walking' close to impossible. She wore white high-heeled shoes and white gloves. In a constant warmth which made semi-nudity comfortable, fashion ran to concealment. Semi-nudity in public was common but never fashionable. Girls wore a halter and shorts for games or for work; to be dressed, they went to the other extreme. Men labored stripped to the' waist, but when they went on the town they wore black dress suits. Sep called for Aleta as smartly dressed as she was. His black trousers were knife-creased, his gray jacket spotless. They ribbed one another easily. "I know it's only a rally, but shouldn't you have changed out of your working clothes!" Sep said. "I didn't want to show you up," Aleta retorted. A s they walked to the dog track, the noise came and hit them. The only time they had heard such shouting before was when a particularly exciting dog race was being run. But this was different -- the shouting was jagged, angry, irregular. Aleta remembered Sello's warning and hesitated momentarily. But Sep, curious to see what was going on, was hurrying. Even without stopping she had the greatest difficulty in keeping up with him. They didn't get near the track. They turned a corner and stopped, stunned by what they saw. Perhaps seventy people were engaged in the scuffle. At first it seemed no more than a scuffle -- but as Aleta looked round, her gaze swung back incredulously to a doorway in which three young men were battering two older men's heads viciously against the closed door. Sep saw this too, and started to Tun. But in a moment he stopped. It was suddenly obvious that what they had seen was not the worst thing going on in the melee. About a dozen people, men and women, had linked arms and were trampling a line of squirming bodies. Three youths with sticks were beating a couple of girls. A huge man sitting on the stomach of his helpless victim was clouting him on the head: left, right, left, right, left, right. There were shouts and screams and moans and entreaties. There was no sense in the scene; it was like a montage of the most violent, savage episodes from a dozen different horror films, all scrambled together. There was no sense in the conflict either. What had probably started as a disagreement over the clear issues of Ascension Day had become a riot, an orgy of sadism, a goulash of blood lust. Sep and Aleta had time for only a brief, incredulous glance at the mad violence in the street. Then a fat man cannoned into Aleta and she staggered back against a wall. The next moment a red-eyed rooter reached out and grabbed her bodice, together with a good deal of her flesh, and wrenched savagely. The flesh withstood the assault but the blouse did not. Most' of it came away in the man's hand. The next moment Sep had wheeled him round and hit him on the chin. He staggered back, but a friend of his jumped Sep from behind. Watching Sep, Aleta didn't know whether she was struck deliberately or accidentally, or by whom. Anyway, she sprawled full length on her side, and someone kicked her. Vaguely she was aware that she must have been recognized, that thii was happening to her simply because she was the daughter of the Premier. Suddenly Sep was with her again, dragging her to her feet. There was a cut on his cheek. "Run!" he gasped. She laughed hysterically. Run, in the sheath she was wearing? Sep bent and ripped it open. As he did so another rioter came up behind Aleta. Still bent double, Sep butted him in the stomach with his head. Aleta ran. They both ran, not looking back. They ran right back to Sello's house, and slammed the door behind them. E verybody assumed Ascension Day would be postponed while the riot was probed. There was no such episode in recorded history. The Gallery was frightened, ashamed, grief-stricken, defiant. But Sello got the digging started before he even began to deal with the rioters. Delay would only make more time available for further strife. Once the digging was under way. Ascension Day was officially inaugurated a fait accompli. gang began the long operation (it was expected to take a month). Fifty men stood by in case of further riots. There were none. The rally riot had shocked the whole Gallery out of further demonstration. It was assumed that Sello would call a full Council meeting to discuss what action should be taken. This IF was another assumption which prove false. Sello dealt with the rioters as ordinary criminals. He recognized nothing out of the ordinary in the circumstances. He dealt with the identified rioters as if each of their crimes had been committed in a vacuum. And in the small, closed community, most of them were identified. Seven men and two women had died. Eighty-four were injured. The seven murderers (two killed twice) were tried first, found guilty and executed. It was in this atmosphere of summary justice that the hundreds of other charges were examined. Although Sello was at first strongly criticized, his handling of the affair was eventually applauded. There had been a feeling that since the riot was a special case, special measures would have to be invented to deal with it. Most people not involved had felt that it was out of the question to try so many offenders in the usual way; many even felt that the riot should be passed over almost as if it had never happened. Sello's attitude from the very beginning was that a mob had no special privilege to assault life and limb. Strong conviction was no excuse for murder. In the trials, Asscension Day was not even mentioned. The only question was, who had done what? Ordinary houses had to be converted into jails. Sello, a politician in the final reckoning, knew that few of the sentences which he and other judges passed would be completed. However, the essential thing was that justice should be swift and decisive. Nothing like the Ascension Eve Riot must ever happen again. Most of the men and women on trial were dazed, incredulous. They could scarcely believe that they had done what they had done, and they were sure they would not be heavily punished. They trusted in the common, familiar human defense:  wasn't the only one. He was doing it too. This availed them nothing. The others who were doing it too came up in court later. And gradually even the men given the stiffest sentences accepted the justice of it all. Mad they might have been -- they were being punished for what they had done. Not for what they had thought nor what they intended: what they had done. All the time the trials were going on (# men and women on # charges), Seps digging party bored upwards, stowing the surplus rock in long-prepared shafts. After the seventh day the work suddenly became very easy. Instead of the hard rock which was encountered in almost all digging operations, Sep struck soft, dry soil which could be drilled ten times as fast as it could be carried away. It was useful, this soil. A great deal of it went to the gardeners, who had never had enough before. Now flower-beds were planted all over the Gallery. Few of the Ascension Eve Riot trials were long or complicated. Most of the rioters pleaded guilty; the knew what they had done, and they knew the evidence against them. The last riot trial was concluded on another eve -- the eve of attainment of five thousand feet. Ill A leta spent the evening at home with her father. Sep was usually too tired to do anything but sleep when he finished work. She watched Sello without speaking for a long time. Only she knew that Sello was not a cold, implacable judge, that the death penalties he had passed and the centuries of jail sentences had taken years off his own life. At last, since he clearly wasn't going to speak, she said: "What do you think Sep will find. Pop?" He looked up. "Perhaps another Gallery," he said. "This is Gallery #, remember." The idea came as a revelation to Aleta. Such a possibility had never been discussed, although now it was presented to her it seemed suddenly obvious. Gallery #I -- that was the name of the world. Its inhabitants did not consider the possibility of other Galleries partly because in two centuries of carefully planned expansion they had never found anything to suggest that other Galleries existed. Certainly #I was a number, yet it never crossed anyone's mind that there might be seventy other Galleries, or even more, all with people in them -- different, unknown people, in different, unknown Galleries. "Yes," she said slowly, thoughtfully. "Yes, I suppose that's possible. What made you think of it. Pop?" "The same thing that made mo enforce Ascension Day. The thing that showed me how distorted history can become.". Aleta was surprised. He never talked of history, or possible distortion in it. "When my father was alive, he often told me about the body," Sello said quietly. "What body?" "A party digging off Tunnel # struck a spring. In it they found the body of a man. A recent body, dead only a matter of days. Not the body of anyone from Gallery #." He paused. Aleta saw the significance at once. "Why, that means... But tell me, when was this? And why have I never heard about it?" Sello nodded, an unspoken ques tion answered. "You understand, Aleta. YouTe intelligent, and not afraid to face the truth, even if its different from what you expect. But not everybody is like you." H e looked beyond her into space. "This happened only seventy years ago -- in the lifetime of quite a few people still alive. The man was found, and the significance was undeniable. This was not the only Gallery... But time passed, and belief became strained. This is the world. There is nothing else, nothing but rock. When we dig, we never find anything but rock and stones and shale and sometimes soil. The spring off Tunnel # was sealed off. IF bypassed. The body was cremated. And ten years later, already hardly anyone believed that a body had been found. Or if it had been found, it came from this Gallery." "Is it possible?" Aleta said thoughtfully. "It's possible. The men who had actually found the body died, one after another, until only my father was left. The records in the library were questioned, disbelieved and finally destroyed. There could have been no strange body, because this is Gallery #, this is the Gallery. It must have been a trick, a joke, a hoax. You see?" Aleta wasn't sure that she did see. "I've always remembered," Sello went on, "that in the Gallery the truth is what people believe. At least, what people believe is all that can survive. I'm not a great reader, few of us are -- but when you go to the library, when you read the records, you find that before a certain time nothing exists, and that after that time all that remains is what we believe now." Aleta wasn't entirely convinced. "We have a great respect for tradition, Pop. Surely we pay too much attention to old legends, warnings and ritual, rather than too little?" "Attention, yes. Veneration, yes. Real respect, no. Rather than believe that what the Founders said was exactly what they meant, we've been changing it around to suit ourselves for two centuries. Like Sinn in the Council... I wish he'd had the consideration to live for another couple of weeks instead of becoming a martyr... The Founders' warning about Ascension Day comes down to us like this: Beware the fire which sears the flesh. If it still burns, return to the Gallery at once and close the shaft for another hundred years' He shook his head. "I wonder what they really said." "You don't believe they said that?" "I believe they said something much more definite and specific. But generations of librarians have turned it gradually into something vague and mystical. Another thing I don't believe is that the world began two hundred years ago with the Founders. I don't think they meant us to believe it, either. But maybe it doesn't matter." "Why not?" "Because the important thing did survive. The definite instruction to dig upwards for five thousand feet." "So you believe...?" "I believe that tomorrow, soon answers to questions we can't even ask now, because we don't know enough to ask them." n this Sello proved correct. It was still early morning when Sep sent for Sello. Aleta had not even left for work. Sep's message was so startling that she didn't go at all. "On a day of such significance," Sello declared, forgetting for a moment that he was talking to his daughter and not addressing a meeting of the Council, "What happens five thousand feet up is five thousand times more important than anything that may happen in the Gallery." So Aleta went with him. They had to walk to Tunnel # terminus. There they found a crude but efficient elevator which took them up the five thousand feet. They emerged on a landing stage and entered a second elevator. The last five thousand feet they had to climb. At the top they found Sep and his men crowded in a small tunnel off the vertical shaft. There was a strange silence among them. "What's happened!" Sello asked. "It's impossible to explain," Sep said quietly. "You'll have to look for yourself." 'Ts there danger?" "That's another thing you'll have to decide for yourself. I've fitted a valve just above this tunnel, anyway. It can be closed at any time." Sep climbed up the ladder first, then Sello, then Aleta. Even up here, Sello noted, the shaft was neatly, strongly lined with stonedust bricks. Sep could be relied on to do a good job, cutting no corners. ' They passed through the valve, closed it behind them and climbed up into a blaze of light. For the two men and the girl green valley under the early morning sun was a terrifying experience. Although  the light was not too bright for them, the illumination in the Gallery being strong, they could scarcely see. Their eyes could not accommodate themselves to the distances involved, to the strangely bright colors, to the fantastic, unknown shapes. Actually, had they known it, in this small valley none of the distances, even to the tops of the surrounding hills was long as surface distances went. But to people who knew nothing outside Gallery #, a mile of unrestricted vision represented vastness beyond belief. Nobody said anything. After a few minutes they began to lose their fear that they would fall upwards into the empty sky. This was a strange, irrational terror. Nobody had ever fallen upwards in the Gallery. Yet the roof over their heads, so close, so solid, had come to be a psychological necessity. Without it, they were afraid of a thousand unimaginable things. It was a protection, it was sanity. At last Sello spoke. "I don't like it I fought for this moment, for this vision, and now that it's been achieved I wonder if Sinn and Modin were right." "This is a wonderful place," Sep protested. "Yes... Hell, too, would be a wonderful place." "Now that we've found it we must try to find out -- " "Oh, yes," Sello interrupted with a sigh. "We must certainly try to find out. We have no choice, now. Aleta, are you afraid?" They were all afraid, yet somehow she knew exactly what ho meant. He meant, was she so awed by the revelation and its implications that she had to go straight back to the Gallery at once, or could she stay out here in this vast, terrifying Gallery and even explore it if necessary? IF "I'll stay," she said. "If you want me too." "Good." He didn't want her to stay, he wanted to take her back with him. But he had already made up his mind that a representative group must make some acquaintance with this world (a world of which, he had already begun to suspect, Gallery #I was only a tiny and insignificant part). As Premier, he could not permit himself to lead this group. His responsibility was to the Gallery. However, since in the event of anything going seriously wrong -- and it was obvious that many things could go wrong in such a strange, utterly unknown environment -- people would be liable to say that he had made others do what he would not do himself, he knew Aleta had to be a member of the party. There was scarcely a choice. Carefully he explained his plan. This great new Gallery could not be ignored. It existed. More must be found out about it. So a representative group of thirty volunteers would stay up here for a day or more, cautiously finding out... whatever there was to find out. "Will you take, charge, Sep?" Sello asked. "Of course." "YoU' must... Sello stopped himself. It was no good putting a man in charge of a party testing a new, utterly unknown environment and in the next breath weighing him down with orders, even with advice. In the end Sello confined himself to a platitude so vague that it could not be a burden: "Be careful, Sep. IV T hey climbed out of the hole in the ground and hesitated in awe, one after the other. Afterwards they confessed that each one of them experienced that strange fear of falling upwards into the infinite blue sky. Several of them hurt their eyes staring at the sun. But no serious damage was done -- nobody was stupid enough to go on doing anything so painful simply because he had never seen anything like the sun before.  They had no name for the sun. The word "sun" had survived in their language in such phrases as "a place in the sun," "sunny-tempered" and "nothing new under the sun," but no one guessed that this was the sun. They talked of it as a light or a lamp. Most of them were young, the young being the most curious, the most fearless and the readiest to volunteer. Loret was among them, with some of her gang of admirers. Although she had thought and said Ascension Day was nonsense, she was as ready as anyone to participate in any exciting developments there might be. She was not old enough to care on Wednesday about anything she might have said on Monday. Despite the initial awe, the early fears, in a few minutes everybody was laughing and chattering. Soon some of the youngsters began to show otf, demonstrating their bravery and their unconcern about the miracle before their eyes. "Wait," Sep called. "Listen, all ot you. First, nobody gets out of sight of the shaft, understood! We may have to go back at any moment. There may be dangers in this world weknow nothing about -- huge animals, poisonous vapor, fire, flood, a hundred other things we can't begin to imagine. We may even have to close the shaft behind us. Anybody who's wandered off may be left behind." The threat brought shocked silence, and involuntarily the group closed up.  "Another thing," Sep said. "This ground looks okay, but it may be treacherous. You find yourself slipping into holes. We're used to level ground, and this isn't level. So watch out, all of you." And for a few minutes they watched out. But as nothing untoward happened, the group spread out again, brave vnce more. It was now possible to make out things which had been obscure at first. When Sello, Aleta and Sep around them, they had discovered for the first time that the eye and brain had great trouble interpreting the unknown. The mountain behind them, a vast black, towering shape, had been difficult to see clearly. The brain behind the eye told the eye to look again, to send impressions that made more sense. Gradually they realized that Gallery #I had been deliberately placed under that mountain. That the terminus of Tunnel # was directly below almost the lowest part of the valley, so that the shaft to the surface was shortest there. Almost, not quite. For three hundred yards further on there was a tiny lake. Even to the inexperienced Galleryites, this was clearly the true bottom of the valley. They stared at the lake, all ol them, not quite understanding what it was. Water, certainly. At least it looked like water. But so much water? Was there so much water in the world? And the color was unexpected. It was black, blue, gray, green, blue, brown. They had never seen water in quantity except in a pool or tank. And it rippled as if it were alive. Loret laughed suddenly. "It's hot," she said. "Let's take off our clothes." At first only Loret threw off her clothes, and only a few outer garments at that. Presently, however, there began to seem something essentially right about taking off their clothes in this open world. It was not merely because it was hot and the sun was pleasant on their skin. It was also a feeling of freedom, of spaciousness, of newness. In the Gallery certain convviitixrtis were observed. But this was outside the Gallery. This was a new place, a wonderful, fantastic place where no rules applied until new rule were made. Why, there wasn't even anything to fall on them. There was nothing that could fall on them. This was only gradually realized -- what at first had seemed frightening began, only a short time later, to seem a IF marvellous new freedom. You could play games, shout, stamp on the ground, do anything you liked without fear that you'd start a roof fall. When most of the other took off their outer clothes, Loret stripped to a red bathing suit. Only she had thought to bring a bathing suit, possibly because, knowing how she looked in it, she never missed any opportunity to wear it. "I wish Pd brought mine," another girl said, looking at Loret jealously. "But it's too far to go all the way back for it." "You can have mine if you like," said Loret recklessly, jumping up an stripping it off. S tartled by her daring, the boys and girls with her looked at Sep. But he did and said nothing. The next moment half a dozen of them stripped naked, leaping and dancing on the grass like children. "I wonder if there's something different in the air up here?" Aleta murmured to Sep. "Don't you feel it?" He nodded. "Quite possibly. More oxygen, less carbon dioxide. That would account for it." "Harmful, do you think?" "No, I guess not. We may tire ourselves out more, that's all." "I feel like stripping and dancing too." "Go ahead." "No, I can't. Pm the Premier's daughter, remember? You could, you're nothing in particular." Sep grinned and threw small stone at her. Despite Sep's sober warnings, nothing untoward happened. They saw plenty of insects but no animals. The ground was firm and safe. Running on it was delightful, and falls proved laughably harmless compared with falls on rock or concrete. It took them an hour or two to get around to swimming in the lake. Several of them had thought about it much earlier, but didn't say anything in case they should be forced to prove their courage by diving in. It was Loret, of course, who eventually suggested it. Still nude, she sat on the edge first and dangled her toes in the water, shrieking at the cold. A few minutes later, nevertheless, she was in the water, shouting that it wasn't so cold once you were in. Cautiously a few of her entourage followed her. Sep had considered forbidding bathing or at least delivering warnings. There might be dangerous creatures in the lake, which looked very deep, and who could tell what other perils there might be? In the end he said nothing, for the whole experiment as he saw it was aimed at finding out as much as possible about this vast external world. Very little would be found out if he forbade everything. The bathers emerged, shivering. But the sun was now so hot, high overhead, that in a few minutes they were so warm that they were ready to swim again. Around midday they ate the food they had brought with them. Most of them were so hungry that they ate at one sitting all they had brought to last them all day. After lunch four of the men crossed the valley floor to the nearest hill. The lower slopes presented no difficulty, but presently they reached a rock face which, to inexperienced climbers, looked quite unscaleable. Skirting it for several hundred yards, they found no place where they could climb more than twenty feet higher. They were not surprised. The valley seemed so vast to all the people from the Gallery that it occurred to no one that it was merely a tiny part of an immense continent. It seemed quite natural that the hills which surrounded the valley should be unclimbable, enclosing it as decisively as the walls of Gallery #I bounded it. They descended and reported to Sep, who was as unsurprised as they were. He, too, had not tried to project his thoughts beyond the valley. In the middle of the afternoon, Aleta, who had sat quietly with others, finally succumbed to temptation and stripped to her briefs. She dived in the lake, swam right across and back, and climbed out, shaking the water from her hair. There was a murmur of slightly reluctant admiration. No one else had managed to swim right across. Loret stared at her in unconcealed dislike. In her view Aleta had deliberately and maliciously stolen her thunder -- as usual. I t was shortly after this that Sello climbed to the exit once more to see for himself what was going on. He stared in shocked disapproval at Loret and her friends, all nude by this time. IF Sep saw him and came to report to him. "You permitted this!" Sello said with a wave of his hand. Sep grinned. "I could hardly stop them. The air up here is intoxicating. We haven't a drop of alcohol with us, but you wouldn't guess it from the things that have been going on -- " "What sort of things?" Sello demanded quickly. "Oh, nothing much. Running, dancing, jumping, climbing, swimmin, wrestling -- a few scrapes and scratches, but nobody's hurt." "Swimming? That pond? You let them?" "Aleta's just swum across and back." Sello clearly didn't approve of the way Sep was handling things. His eyes widened as Aleta stood up and waved, scarcely more decent than Loret and her companions. However he had put Sep in charge. And the average age of the volunteers was less than twenty. He grunted and made a withdraw into the hole. "Wait," said Sep. "Could you send up some more food? This air makes us very hungry." "Are you sure it's safe to stay here?" "Safe? Fve been thinking. Premier. Isn't it pretty clear that we all came from here originally? Before we built the Gallery?" Evidently the same thought had already crossed Sello's mind, for it was no surprise to him and he didn't argue. "If so," he said, "the Founders must have had a very good reason to withdraw to the Gallery and ensure that we stayed there for two centuries." Sep nodded soberly. "I guess so." "Any idea what it might be?" Sello asked. "No, not in the present conditions. But they may change." "Change? How?" Sep pointed at the sun. "The lamp in the sky... it moves. Soon it will be night." "Like night in the Gallery? And at the same time?" Sep nodded "Not by coincidence either I guess our night and day are modelled on night and day here. I don't know what night will be like here -- except it's almost certain to be very cold." "Then come back to the Gallery when it's night." "You don't want us to stay for the whole cycle?" "I want you to come back -- and be examined." "For what?" For the first time it was Sello who smiled. "We won't know what we're looking for until we find it, will we?" After Sello had climbed down the shaft again, Sep remained for some time where he was, frowning thoughtfully. Age obviously made a great difference to people's reaction to this open Gallary. Sello, whom Sep had always considered wise and reasonably progressive, proved to be almost as reactionary as Sinn and Modin at sight of the valley. And Sello was not very old. Yet Sep and Aleta and Loret and the other volunteers, few of them beyond their teens, adapted easily and readily to these new conditions outside the Gallery. Perhaps it was a pity that the final decisions -- whatever they might be -- would be taken, as all important decisions were, by the elders of Gallery #. V T hey sunbathed all day. But when the sun (which they were still calling a lamp) disappeared behind one of the hill-tops, the temperature dropped sharply. Within half an hour they all wore all the clothes they had with them and wanted more. In another half-hour it was so cold that Sep had to order withdrawal to the Gallery. It was an order which was gladly obeyed. This new world was wonderful by day, but even before the last rays of the sun had disappeared it became terrifying again. Sep and Aleta stayed at the top of the shaft to see what happened when the lamp went out. The others hastened back to Gallery #, eagerly anticipating the delights of describing the wonders they had seen to the stay-at-homes. "There's another bird," Aleta said, pointing. They had seen plenty of birds without losing their wonder of them. Birds and flight were not entirely unknown to them -- they had hens in the Gallery. The swooping, soaring birds of the valley showed, however, that hens had aH but forgotten how to fly. This was a beautiful silvery bird which circled the valley lazily, still in sunshine although the whole valley was in deep shadow. Presently it darted away and in a few minutes night was complete. Aleta was shivering in Sep's arms. They climbed down and closed the valve behind them, missing the wonder of the moon and stars. Next day all thirty of the volunteers came out in a fiery rash. They lay in bed groaning, wincing at the touch of the lightest sheet. Some thought they were dying. Some feared they were not. Some had colds as well as the red rash: others had boils. There was no great mystery about the common ailment. The rash was clearly caused by burning. The burning was clearly caused by the great lamp whose warmth had been so pleasant the day before. Sep and Aleta, who had sunbathed moderately, were in better case than anyone else. Yet they were in such pain that they were not consulted when the emergency Council meeting called by the Premier made its decision. 'Beware the fire that sears the flesh,' Sello quoted grimly. "If it still burns, return to the Gallery at once and close the shaft for another hundred years. Our duty is clear, Councillors." "Yes," said Zet with satisfaction. "I'm glad you agree. Premier." And he couldn't resist adding: "At last." "We had to obey the Founders we have profited by it. We have greatly added to our knowledge of the world we live in. But we must IF now heed their warning. The fire that sears the flesh still burns. We must close the shaft. At once." When Sep heard the decision, he jumped up, put on his lightest shirt and shorts, and hurried out to find Sello. "We're making a mistake, Premier," he protested when he found him. "It's a wonderful world up there, and we've scarcely given it a chance. These I urns are nothing! They'll heal in a day or two," he insisted. "I hope so," said Sello, shuddering as he though of Aleta's burns. "I certainly hope so." "Look," Sep said, baring the flesh on his hips. "If you protect yourself from the lamp, no harm befalls you. We must go hack and -- " Sello interrupted him. "It's too late Sep," Sello said quietly. "The shaft has already been closed. Not merely closed but collapsed. There is no shaft there any more." Sep nearly said something extremely rude. But he stopped himself in time. This was Aleta's father, after all. And you couldn't argue with a Council decision. He made a secret resolution. In twenty years he would be on the Council. Perhaps he would be Premier. If he was, he would devote ah his energies to reopening the shaft to the wonderful world above. Yet even as he resolved this, he remembered how different the reaction of old and young people had been to the valley. In twenty years' time, when he had power, he would then be nearly as old as Sello was now. Perhaps, he though bleakly, it would always be the same. The young were adventurous, the old were cautions. And the old made all of the decisions. Perhaps all Ascension Days would have the same result. Perhaps the human race would never have any home but Gallery #, never recognizing anything else as home. And this is wrong. Sep thought with the certainty of youth. Sella is wrong. Hes not being wise, he's being over-cautions. We came from that world and we can never he more than half alive except in that world. Sello is wrongs wrong, wrong! B ut Sello, though mistaken, was not wrong. The silvery bird which Aleta had admired flew back to its home. And next day, although the evidence it had brought back was hazy and inconclusive, two larger birds arrived over the valley. They saw nothing significant. The caved-in shaft looked no different from a score of natural scars in the floor of the valley. However, just to be on the safe side, they dropped a radiation bomb. Poison slowly spread over the valley. Then they flew away. In the valley where thirty young men and girls had laughed and played and bathed less then twentyfour hours ago, nothing remained but the fire that sears the flesh. IF  Short The cheerful plgllke alien would never harm a human -- but it might not stop a human harming himself! I t happened on Hippodamia. The name isn't really important. There are ten thousand other asteroid-stations just as undistinguished. Netter settled back into the soft, live-moss chair and prepared to talk the Creature out of the impasse. Then, with a shudder, he saw it on the wall and he began to tremble. He had found, in part, what he bad come to find. It was the beefy, bearded head of Captain Kalbfleish, mounted like a trophy. 'Great God, Man!" -- and H wasn't a man to whom he spoke -- "that's a human head." Netter cracked. "Which Great God, yours or mine?" Porcellus grunted. "They aren't the same, or they've been badly described. Yes, a human head. I've always wanted one. You notice that I have given it the favored position in the center of the great wall. I now have at least one of the heads of every species that interest me. Some of the heads are much larger and more ornamented than your friend's. It's a pity that humans don't have sweeping horns; that would make them perfect. But even without them, I consider Kalbfleish's head the finest in my collection. It's truly magnificant. It was. "Kalbfleish has a fine head on him," his friends used to say, and laugh. The big captain, for all his remarkable courage and spirit, had not been long on brains. As a trophy, his head looked even wilder than it had when he was alive. It had a stark and staring expression -- as though his death had been one of terror and agony. "You killed him of course," said Netter dryly, as he braided a romal in his nervous hands. "So, one way or the other. I'll have to kill you -- or you me." "Not I," said Porcellus -- a moist and hog-fat Creature. "I wouldn't harm an insect. Your friend had a violent heart and it finally ruptured. He was uncommonly energetic -- especially so on the day of his death." "Where is his body, you fat pig?" "My translator has only a rough idea of pig, and I suppose you intend it for an insult: but I have a tough hide. I couldn't do a thing with his body, Netter, it was putrid in no time. When you humans know you are going to die you should begin giving yourself injections three or four basic days before. Then your bodies wouldn't turn foul after death. I had no idea he had neglected it, so I wasn't prepared. I was lucky to save the head." "We humans don't know when we're going to die," said Netter. "What is this you gave me to eat? "Yes, now' I remember Kalbfleisk saying he didn't know when he would die, but I thought that he spoke in humor. Since you also say it, it must be true of your species. "The name of the food would mean nothing to you, but yon have a close parallel to its method of preparation. I have read about geese in an Earth book of the ca tain's though I overlooked pigs. Yon sometimes put live geese to dance on hot griddles before they are killed. Because this excites and alarms them their livers become enlarged and are then eaten as great delicacies The creatures whose meat you are eating also died in excitement and alarm, and they are delicious through and through." Well, the meat was certainly delicious. That fat hog of a creature knew how to live well. Netter finished the meal and set it aside. Once more he braided the romal in his hands while he grasped for words. "I suppose all the creatures whose heads you have here died accidently, Porcellus?" he asked. "Well, all but one of them died," said Porcellus, "and I did not kill them. One of them died at a great distance from here: he willed mo his head and had it sent to me because I had admired it. And one of them, so far as I know is still alive. He was a being of multiplex heads. He hacked one of them off quite cured and mounted it himself. A queer chap. He is staring down at you now and it will amuse you to guess which one he is." P orcellus didn't actually speak like that. He spoke in a series of grunts, some verbal and some ventral. But Netter's Console Translator had a selector dial. He could dial translation in any language, pidgeon, diplomatic pleasantry, old Southern U.S. soft-talk or Yiddisih dialect, among others, if he wished. Whenever he encountered a creature who was repulsive to him -- as Porcellus was -- he dialed a courtly manner of speech. This was somehow easier on his ears and nerves. "We're wasting time," Netter told the creature. "I've come to pursue claim to this asteroid. We need it for a way station. As we both know it's never worked out well for two such different species to share a station. We had first claim here long ago: and we abandoned it. Then you set up your station here: but you also abandoned it." "Never," said Porcellus. "Would I abandon my cozy home and my trophies? Would my masters wish the removal of so fine a station master as myself? I was called Home on urgent business. I was gone but for a basic year and the odds were very high against any other claimer coming during that time." "The rules state that a live and competent agent must be in residence at all times or the asteroid can be declared abandoned," Netter said. "The asteroid was plainly abandoned when Kalbfleish arrived: you were gone. He reported it, and claimed the station for our company. The claim was approved and accepted. "True," said the Creature Porcellus. "What is that thing you play with in your hands? But Captain Kalbfleish -- following the awkward interval after I had returned -- also abandoned the station by dying. I so reported his death, and claimed the station for ourselves aoce more. The claim was approved and accepted. Now you are here as my guest only and, I tell you in all ldness, not a very welcome one." "But a proved murder will void your claim," said Netter. "So prove it, fine man," said Porcellus. "Yours is a smaller head than Kalbfleish's but k has a certain distinction. I could make room for it among my trophies. We have each of us sent various reports, and the matter is under litigation. " In the meanwhile, the accidental death of either of us would void his claim and settle the matter. We cannot kill directly. Investigators are already on the way and we would both be prime suspects, since we are the only ones here. What is that leather thing with which you play?" # A romal, Porcellus. A short quirt braided onto a rein. They made them in Old Mexico, California and Texas, but they were mostly ornamental." "Earth places, my translator say. Were they used with a creature?" "With a pony, a horse." "Haven't I stumbled onto the information that the horse is extinct? "Yes. The braiding of the little thing is only a hobby of mine." IF "A hobby, according to my comprehensive translator, is a sort of vicarious horse -- a mental surrogate which one rides. Is that correct?" "Correct, Porcellus. Haven't you a hobby?" "My hobby is heads." said the thing. Netter started to leave for his own camp. "To the early and accidental death of one of us," he toasted, finshing his drink. "Shoals!" toasted Porcellus. "I believe that is your word. And a warning: stay away from the low dome which you will see on the plain. It's dangerous." No -- Porcellus wanted him to go to the curious dome -- or he wouldn't have warned him away from it. Was it dangerous? Or did the thing merely want to divert him? Porcellus must have known that he would explore every feature of landscape on the small asteroid. Perhaps it was only to further worry him, as Porcellus himself had seemed to be worried. But what in hog heaven can worry a hog! Netter had it after a while. He knows when he's going to die. He's surprised that humans haven't that knowledge. But can I depend on it? It's only a guess -- and a poor one at tht. Netter left the dome until last. He circumnavigated the asteroid in a brisk six-mile walk and found nothing of interest. At last he came thoughtfully to the dome. Rising to no more than his height in the center, it was about sixty feet in diameter, symmetrical in general outline, with a slightly rough ened surface, and probably artificial. "I believe it is an old direction beacon of the Porcines," he said aloud to himself. "Yes, this is certainly the top of an obsolete beam sphere, and most of it is underground. They were no good. I think we had them at one time." Netter stepped gingerly onto the sphere. It was certainly firm enough. There was no danger of him crashing through. He climbed to the center. "Nice, he said, 'T)ut nothing." Then he felt it activated "So Porcellus still uses it," he said, "I didn't realize they were so backward." H e walked around on it, and it rotated gently under him, compensating for him. He strode down the side a little way, and it quickly brought him back to the top. "This could be fun," he said. He could take three, four quick steps away from the top, and he would still be on top. He could tense to jump sideways, and the sphere would compensate before he left the surface: he'd still land exactly on the center whichever way he jumped. The thing rolled easily and noiselessly, immedately anticipating and reacting to every movement. He walked, he ran, he laughed He trotted half a mile to end up standing where he stood before. "You know tricks and I know tricks, old sphere," he shouted "Let's see who's smarter." He feinted, he broke, he dodged, he ran crazy-legged as though he were brokenfield dribbling at Galactk rules Football. He evaded tacklers, he scored countless goals in his mind -- but he never left the dome. He lay down and rolled, trying to go down the steep far slopes as though they were grass banks. He stopped rolling and lay on his back. "I haven't had so much fun since I was a boy at the amusement park," he said. He hadn't? Then why did he suddenly begin to tremble? Why didhe begin to whistle off key. It was almost as though he was scared. 'Stone walls do not a pokey make nor locks a -- " It was the Cross-Bar Hotel Blues he was whistling and he had to stop it. He was locked tight in jail on a hillock in the middle of a plain, and there was no barrier in sight. There was no possible way he could get off the compensating dome. After an hour of cavorting and hopping about he wasn't even one full step from where he started -- and there was no possible way that he could do better. He thought about it for a full Hippodamia day and night -- fortyfive minutes basic time. He couldn't come up with anything constructive. "If I had a rope and you had a stump," he said talking to no one, "I'd rope the stump -- I'm good at that -- and pull myself off this thing. But he didn't have a rope and the plain sure didn't have a stump. It hardly had a pebble as big as his thumb. tCThis is where Kalbleish died," A said Netter "You said it right, pig man, my friend had a violent heart and it finally ruptured on him. You didn't have to murder him. You let him run himself to death. You said it, he was uncommonly energetic -- especially so on the day of his death. Now I understand. He could never stand to be confined. He must have gone crazy when he realized the paradoxical nature of his prison -- on the most open space on the asteroid. He must have run until he ruptured all his organs. It is no wonder that he died with that look of horror." This was a jail that nobody could break. Why try more tricks on the sphere? It knew what he was going to do even before he did. "Only a creature that could fly in zero atmosphere could get off of this," he mused. "Even a worm couldn't crawl off unless he were too small to affect the compensators. If I had two cant hooks I might be able to fool the thing, but it could no doubt compensate for the resolution of forces. If I had a weight on a line I might pule it a little -- but not much. Porky has it made. I'll die either of starvation, exertion or insanity -- but the investigation won't show that I was murdered. "Why have two humans died of heart attack here?" is the most they can ask him, and Porky will rub his hands and say "Bad climate." But what Porky Porcellus really said was: "Fine man, why do you play like a boy on top of that thing? Is that any way for a hopeful asteroid agent to conduct himself." "Porcellus, you think you've trapped me, do you?" flared Netter. "I trap you! My hands are clean. IF O ' k Permit No. # Sec. #, P.L.R. New York, N. Y. No postage stomp necessary if mailed in the United States Special Christmas Gift Rates # Issues #  # Issues # # # Issues # Add #: for each (# Issues) foreign subscriptions rrq science  # Issues # El # Issues # B # Issues # Add #d for each (# Issues) foreign subscriptions moRRoW Now #c  # Issues # # # Issues # HI # Issues # Add #C for each (# Issues) foreign subscriptions j # Issues of Each  # In All K # Issues of Each I #-# In All L # Issues of Each # In All Add # for each (# Issues) foreign subscriptions Enclosed please find  in payment for subscriptions lo be sent In accordance with the offers indicoted in eoch case belowt nVw henVwai a b c # e f # h I j ic i n P, CiRaE n#w renewal a b c d e f g h I j IC I  I enclose additional gifts, on separate sheet p, n ciRaE N?w ren#wai a B C # E F C H I j K I No Postage Stamp Necessary if Mailed in the U.#. Give the gift you would like to receive Is it my fault that two humans develop the strange mania of running themselves to death in a weird game! How far away was Porcellus from the edge of the dome? Too far. Two far by several yards. "Porcellus, what is this thing?' Netter cried out. "Once it was a beam sphere, as you have probably guessed Now its obsolete. I have altered it a bit. I use it as an intelligence test. To fail it is to die." "Did anyone ever get off it?" Netter called He had to get Porcellus interested. He had to get him to come several feet closer before he turned away. "Only one passed," said the creature, "and he had unusual natural advantages. He was a peculiar fellow of the species Larrik who visited me some basic years ago. He simply broke himself into two pieces and walked off in opposite directions. The globe couldn't compensate for both of them. One got clear, obtained a line and pulled his other half off. Both halves lauded at me, and then they rejoined themselves. But you haven't his advantage, Netter. Yqu have failed." #T'#I find a way," swore Netter. I "I'll find a trick." Just a little bit closer now would do it. "You lose. Netter," said Porcelhis. "There is no fixed thing on the plain you could use to pull yourself off -- even if you had a way of reaching it. The longest thing you have with you is what you call the romal, and it's not long enough." Porcellus was close enough. Right at the end of the dome, when he turned it would be perfect -- some where between thirty-two and thirtyfive feet. There was no fixed object on the plain, but there was something heavy enough that would serve as one. The romal was no longer than his arm, but it was a romal rey -- a king romal. Porcellus turned away in his triumph. The lightthin lariat flew and dropped over his body. The fat hulk was no match for Netter when he was on solid ground. He hog-tied the Hog-man with the thin leather line and rolled him onto the dome. And Porcellus was immediately on the center top of the dome to stay there until he died of hunger, uncommon exertion or porcine apoplexy... Netter was moving things about in the fine trophy room which he had recently inherited. He set a fine hardwood peg into the wall and hung on it the king romal for which he now had especial afiection. He moved many things in the trophy room. He wanted #ie setting to be just right. He knew just what space it should occupy cm Aat great wall. The investigation was over with and Netter's claim had been accepted. He was now asteroid stationmaster -- a good job. The head was ready. It had been cured out and tanned and treated, and the eye-tushers were polished until they gleamed. Porcellus had a magnificent head! IF  Serta He was the only man In the world who could hope to stand up against the enemyif he was still a mani XI F or the first eight hours at my new job, while the ancient tanker ploughed at fifty knots sixtyfive feet beneath the surface of the Mediterranean, I labored with Joel at routine drudgery that could have been performed with greater efficiency and less cost by a mediumpriced computer. I passed a bad hour when we surfaced to pass through the Gibraltar locks. A boat came alongside and I heard the clank of feet on the deck above; caught scraps -- voices asking What Has Gone Before e e  John Bravals, mtelligence operator and soldier of fortune, IS assigned to track down the report that strange creatures are interfering in the formal war games the world uses to settle its diplomatic problems. Fitted out with special equipment, he visits one battle and finds a creature that looks like a huge, savage dog that uses superscientific weapons to destroy a tank, kill its crew... and in a matter of seconds operate on their bodies to remove their brains. Bravais reports back to Ms superiors and is given a new body to help him match the superfast, super-strong hounds of hell. Fitted out with prosthetic muscles and skin of steel, with sensory equipment that matches the radar of a battleship and the long-distance sensitivity of Project Ozma, able to work for days without rest and to destroy any mortal adversary, Bravais sets out to find the creatures -- and succeeds too well. For they are everywhere. Masked as humans, relying on a psionk ability to camouflage themselves, they pass as military officers, diplomats -- Earth leaders of every variety. Bravais's superiors are killed. He himself is a fugitive and alone. Wounded, helpless, he stows away aboard a cargo submarine headed for the U.S.A. m ' questions, the captain blandly denying any knowledge of stowaways. I was waiting just inside the deckhouse door as he invited his official visitors to search the ship. They declined with curses. I heard them reboard their launch; then the sound of its engines growled away across the water. I leaned against the wall, feeling hot and dizzy. My arm throbbed like a giant toothache. Joel had been waiting with me. "Hey, Jones," he said. "How come we're hanging around here? You going out on deck?" I let a long breath out; it was a bad habit I was forming -- forgetting to breathe for minutes at a stretch. I straightened with an effort, feeling the deck move under me. "Sure," I said. "Let's go take a look at the Rock." The cold pre-dawn air cleared my head. I leaned on the rail beside Joel, watching the towering barrier walls slip down into the churning water as the lock filled. Then the tanker edged ahead, the mighty gates slid in behind us, churning water aside, met with a dull boom. Again we rode the flood, gaining another hundred feet. Forty-five minutes and five locks later we slid out into the choppy, blue-black waters of the South Atlantic, five hundred feet above the level of the Mediterranean. Dawn was coloring the sky now. Lights gleamed wanly from the fortress of Gibraltar, and from the flat, white city on the African side. A raucous buzzer sounded across the deck. ?# "Hey, we better get below before we get dunked," Joel advised. We stepped back into the stale interior. A moment later we heard the crash of the waters closing over us above, then the silence of the deep sea settled in again. "Well," Joel said cheerfully. "I guess we got to get back to work, Jones." I nodded. For a moment, blackness whirled before me as I turned. I caught myself, followed Joel back down into the ship. D uring the next forty-eight hours, Joel and I found time for several four-hour sleeps and a couple of short naps between bellowed orders from Carboni or the unseen captain. At odd intervals we went to the crew mess, demanded and got plates of oily cold-storage eggs and too-salty bacon. Now, having just completed a laborious two-hour visual inspection of reset switches, I again sat at the long table, listening to the feverish humming in my head, picking at a mixture of mummified beef and canned milk and taking medicinal sips from a clay mug of North African brandy. Across the table, the bearded elder known as Doc worked conscientiously to finish the bottle. Joel had put his head on the table and gone off to sleep. At the far end of the room, Fogey, the horse-faced man, monotonously and with much profanity called off items from an inventory list while a short, chinless sailor with a wool cap and warts ticked them off on a clipboard. What the rest of the nine-man crew IF did aboard the vessel, I hadn't yet learned. Four of them had just left the room, staggering drunk. "Three more trips, Jones," Doc stated. "Thirty-one years on the line -- nine on Excalibur. I'll miss the old tub." He looked around the room with sad, red-veined eyes. "No, Fm a damned liar," he corrected. "I hate this damned scow." He looked at me as though I had praised it. "I've hated every minute of those thirty-one years. Hated medical school before that. You ever been in a cadaver lab?" "Sure have," I said, forcing myself to follow the conversation. "There was a fellow I hadn't seen for years. Opened up the tin box, and there he was." I sipped the brandy, feeling it burn its way down. Doc worked his lips, blinked, took a puD at his drink. "I knew a fellow," he said, "sold his body to a medical school. Got five hundred cees for it, which he badly needed at the time. Later on he got in the chips and thought better of the bargain. Wanted to buy it back. Well, seems like the title had changed hands a couple of times. He traced it from Yak to Georgia, and on down to Miami. Finally caught up with it." He took a healthy draught from his cup, exhaled noisily. "Too late, though. End of the year, you know. Nothing left but a few ribs, the left arm, and the bottom half of the cranium." He sighed. "A sad case." H is image was wavering, obscured by whirling points of light; I blinked them away, raised my glass to him. "Doc, you're one' of the finest liars I ever met." He blushed, looking modest. "Shucks, seems like things just naturally happen to me. Why, I remember the time..." he rambled on. At the far end of the table, Fogey tossed his list aside, yawned, scratched at an unshaven jaw. "Get some coffee over here, Runt," he ordered. The warty sailor bustled, operating the coffee maker, filled a two-quart pot, rattled thick cups and sheet-metal spoons. He placed the pot iu front of the horsefaced man. "Watch out, Mr. Dobbin. She's plenty hot." He went back to his list, muttering to himself. Fogey grunted; He glanced at Joel, snoring across the table from him; he licked a finger, touched it to the polished metal; it hissed. An expression twitched at the corners of his mouth. He took the pot gingerly by the massive insulated handle, stood. "Hey, dummy!" he said sharply. Joel stirred. "Wake up, dummy!" Joel sat up, knuckling his eyes. He saw Fogey and smiled. "Gee, I guess I -- " he started. "Here!" Fogey thrust the pot at him. Joel reached out, took the rounded container in his two huge hands. His jaw dropped. His eyes widened. Fogey stepped back, his mouth arched m a grin like something carved at the top of Notre Dame. I was a little slow, but I reached Joel then, knocked the steaming pot from hk bandr, it smashed against the wall behind Pogey, spewed steam and liquid in a wide sheet that caught the horse-faced man full across the back. He howled, writhed away from the table, clutching at his shoulder. He screamed again, tore at his jacket. Doc came to his feet, grabbing at the bottle as it tottered, almost fell. The horse-faced man clawed his shirt open, ripped it from his shoulders. A vast red blister swelled visibly from his patchy hair-line almost to the soiled edge of the underwear showing above his belt. His eye fell on Doc. "Do something, damn your guts!" he shrilled. "Oh, Jesus..." Doc started around the table. I caught his arm. "To hell with that sadist," I said. "Take a look at Joel's hands." Joel still stood, staring at his hands. A tear formed, rolled down his cheek. "I'll kill him!" Pogey screeched. He plunged across the room, knocked the sailor aside, caught up a steak knife, whirled on Joel. I pushed in front of him. The odors of sweat and alcohol came from him in waves. I caught his wrist, remembering not to pulp the bone. "Joel," I said, my eyes holding on Pogey's. "If this man ever hurts you again, put your thumbs into his throat until he stops moving, understand?" I twitched the knife from Pogey's hand, shoved him from me. His face was as white now as the dead face of the thing I had killed in the ravine. The recollection must have shown in my expression. Pogey shivered, backed, turned to the sailor who was standing wide-eyed, all warts and Adam's apple, looking from one of us to the other like a spectator at a ping-pong tournament. "Get me to my room," Pogey gasped out. His knees went slack as the sailor caught him. Behind me, Joel moaned. "Let's get this boy down to my sick-bay," Doc was saying. "Second-degree, maybe worse. Callouset helped..." As I turned, his eyes found mine. "You better let me take a look at you, too," he said. "You're hotter'n a power pile, Jones." I put a hand on the desk to keep it from spinning. "How's Joel?" My voice seemed to belong to someone else. A wave of nausea rolled over me, left me shivering violently.  would have to wait... I forced my thoughts to hold to the subject. Wait until they came. There would be a band, dressed all in Red, and General Julius would be leading it . I fought the fantasy away. Delirium waited like a mire beside the nari;ow path of reason. Nothing to do with Julius. Julius was dead. I had strangled him, while he bit at me. The dog-things had chased me, and now I was on the beach. It was cold, cold... I shivered violently, huddling against the steel cliff. Joel was calling my name. He needed help, but I was trapped. "Please, Jones... don't hit the doc." I got my eyes open. Joel's face IF loomed above me. Blood ran from his nose. Doc's frightened face stared. I fell back, feeling my heart pound like a shoeing hammer. I lay back and let the dream take me... I awoke feeling weak, sick, beaten, thrown away. I stirred, heard cloth tear. I looked down; my left arm, as numb as something carved from marble, was strapped to my side. I felt the pull of tape at my neck, across my jaw. My mouth tasted as though mice had nested in it. I sat up as weak as a diplomatic protest. I got to my feet, blinked away a light-shot blackness, went across to the door, looked out through the bars. Joel lay in the corridor, asleep on a mat. I called his name. He sat up, rubbed his eyes, smiled. "Hey, Jones!" He got to his feet, touched his swollen nose. "Boy, Jones, you sure pack a wallop. You feeling better now?" "Lots better. How long was I out?" He looked down at me vaguely. "How long before we reach Jacksonville?" "Gosh, Jones, I dunno. Pretty soon, maybe." I tensed the muscles behind my cars, tuned through the sounds of the ship, picked up the mutter of voices; but they were indistinct, unreadable. "Listen to me, Joel," I said. "There'll be police waiting for me when we dock. I have to get off the ship before then. How long before we surface?" "Huh? Hey, hows come cops is after you, Jones?" "Never mind that, Joel. Try to think, now. Do we surface out at sea, before we get into the harbor?" Joel frowned." "Gosh, I don't know about that, Jones." I gripped the bars. "I want you to do something for me, Joel. Go to the crew mess. There's a clock there. Go check it, and come back and tell me what time it is." Joel nodded. "Okay, Jones. Sure. Hows come..." "I'll tell you later. Hurry!" I sat on the floor and waited. The deck seemed to surge under me. Either we were maneuvering, or I was having another relapse. There was a distant booming, the sudden vibration of turbulence transmitted through the hull. The ship heaved, settled. I got to my feet, holding to the wall for support. The question of when we would surface had become academic. We were on the top now. There were sounds along the corridor: the clump of feet, raised voices. I keened my hearing again, picked up the whine of the main drive turbines, the clatter of deploying deck gear, the creak of the hull -- and another sound: the rhythmic growl of a small-boat engine, far away but coming closer. The minutes crawled on like #tepped-on roaches. Joel appeared down the corridor, came up to the cell door. There was a worried look on his face. "The big hand was on... lessee... Hey, Jones." He looked at me like a lost kid. "I got a funny feeling." "Sure, Joel. I'm scared, too." But I got this like tickle-feeling in my head." I nodded, listening for the sounds from above. The boat was close now. I heard its engines cut back; then it was bumping alongside. The sound of the ship's turbines had faded to a growl. "Does a customs boat usually come out to meet the ship in the harbor?" Joel was rubbing his head with one bandaged hand. He looked up at the low ceiling and whimpered. "What is it, Joel?" Then I felt it: the eerie sense of unreality, the graying of the light in the dim corridor, the sense of doom impending. I grabbed the bars, strained at them. The metal gave, grudgingly, a fraction of an inch; my head pounded from the effort. "Joel!" I called. My voice had a ragged edge to it. "Who keeps the key to this door?" His eyes wavered down to meet mine. "Uh... Carboni keeps all the keys." "Can you get them?" Joel looked at the ceiling. I heard feet on the deck now -- and a soft padding that sent a chill through me like an iron spear. "I got such a tickle in my head," he moaned. "I'm scared, Jones. Sometimes -- " he brushed at his face, groping for words -- "when I seen the big dogs it was just like this, Jones. It tickled in my head." T swallowed hard. "Tell me about the big dogs. Joel." "T didn't like them dogs, Jones. They scared me. I run when I seen 'em. I hid." "When did you see them?" "In port. Lots of times. I seen 'em in the streets, and inside buildings. I seen 'em looking out of cars." He pointed to the ceiling. "They're up there now. I can tell." "Listen, Joel. Go to Carboni's office; get the keys; the one you want is a big electrokey. Bring it here, as fast as you can." "I'm scared, Jones." But he stepped back with a sob, turned and ran. I clung to the bars and waited, listening to the feet that prowled the deck above. T he ship was deathly still now except for the slap of water, the groan of structural members as the hull flexed under the motion of the waves. I heard stealthy feet moving, the rasp of unhuman hands at the deckhouse door. Joel appeared, half-running. T heard the other footsteps slow, come to a stop. I pictured the thing, standing with one pale hand upraised like a dog on point, its death-mask turning, searching for the source of the sounds. I motioned to Joel. "Keep it quiet!" I hissed. He came up to the door, holding up the key, a two-inch square of black plastic from which a short metal rod protruded. "Carboni was setting right there. He never even looked up." "Get the door open," I whispered urgently. He inserted the key, his tongue in the corner of his mouth. I could hear the thing around the comer, coming back now, hurrying. #B The lock snickered; I slid the door aside, stepped into the passage -- The creature bounded into view, brought up short, red eyes staring in a white mask. Beside me, Joel cried out. I pushed in front of him as the demon sprang, slammed a blow to its head that sent it sprawling past me. It was up instantly, whirling, rearing up on thin too-long legs. I chopped at its neck with the side of my hand, jumped back as its jaws snapped half an inch from my wrist, swung a kick that caught its hip, knocked it against . the wall. It yelped and came at me, dragging a hind leg. Behind it, Joel stood, mouth open, flat against the cell door. I shook my head to clear it. The scene before me wavered; a sound like roaring waters filled my head. A cannonball struck me, carried me back, down. The needle-filled mouth was a foot from my face, and I hit at it, caught a fist-full of stiff-bristled hide, held the snapping jaws from me. The great pale hands struck at me -- poorly aimed, feeble blows. The jaws were the demon's weapon. They ravened inches from my face -- and my arm was weakening. T he beast lunged backward, twisted free from my one-handed grip. I heard Joel's yell, instantly choked off. I came to my knees, saw the flurry of motion as the demon bore him backwards. I got my feet under me, took two steps, threw myself at the black-bristled back, locked my right arm around its throat in a crushing embrace. I lunged backward, rolled clear of Joel, saw him stumble to his feet, start toward me -- "Stay clearl" I shouted. The demon fought, flailing the deck and walls with wild blows of its four hands. I held on, choking it, feeling bone and cartilage collapse, grinding the shattered throat until the head fell slack. One leg drummed for a moment against the deck. Then the thing stiffened and was still. I pushed it aside, tottered to my feet. Joel stared at me, dazed. I listened, heard the slap of running beast-hands. "Into the cell, Joel!" I pushed him inside, slammed and locked the door. "You'll be safe there -- they won't bother with you," I called. "When you get ashore, go home, stay there. You understand?" He nodded dumbly. The feet were close now. I turned, ran along the passage, took a cross-corridor, nearly fell over someone sprawled on the deck. A patch of evening sky showed at the top of the companionway. I went up, leaped out on the open deck, almost awash in the still sea. I caught a glimpse of two demons standing with raised heads, as though listening, while beyond them a third crouched over a fallen crewman. Three steps took me to the rail; I leaped over it and dived into the dark water. Coffeyville, Kansas, Felix had said. Box #, the Franklin Street Postal Station. It was a long drive for an invalid, and what I would find at the end IF of it I didn't know -- but it was something that Felix had thought important enough to lock in the final strongbox of his subconscious. I headed north. A lifetime later, I steered a stolen pick-up to the curb on a snow-frosted side street of sagging, cavernous houses that had been the culminating achievements of rich farmers a century before. Now they looked as bleak and empty as abandoned funeral homes. I got out of the car, waited until the pavement settled down, then walked back two blocks to a structure in red-brick Gothic bearing the legend: Coffeyville, Kans. # Inside, a bored-looking youngish man with thinning hair and a pursed mouth watched me from behind the peeling veneer of a kidney-shaped the sea of gray Jello in which his face seemed to float, got a hand on the desk, . leaned more or less upright, and heard somebody say, 'T'd like a room for tonight." His mouth was moving. It was hot in the room. I pulled at my collar. The Jello had closed over the clerk now, but a voice with an edge like a meat saw went on:... drunks in the place. You'll have to clear out of here. This -- " Unfortunately, I'm not drunk," I heard myself pronouncing the words quite distinctly. 'T'm a bit off my feed. Touch of an old malaria, possibly." He was swimming back into focus. My feet seemed to be swinging in a slow arc over my heai. I kept both hands on the counter and tried to convince myself that I was standing solidly on the rubber mat that covered the worn place in the rug. I let go long enough to get out my wallet, put money on the counter. "Well..." His hand covered the bill. "You do look a little flushed. Chinese flu, maybe. Maybe you'd better see a doctor. And that's a nasty cut on your face." "Not used to these new-fangled safety razors," I said. "I'll be all right." The floor was sliding back to where it belonged now. The Jello had thinned out sufficiently to show me the registration book and a finger with a hang-nail indicating the line where I should sign. My stomach felt like a flush tank on the verge of starting its cycle. I grabbed the stylus, scrawled something, waded through knee-deep fog to the lift, rode up, walked past a few miles of wallpaper that was someone's revenge for life's disappointments, found my room, got the door open, took a step toward the bed and passed out cold. A crew of little red men was working at my arm with saws and hatchets, while another played a blow-torch over my face. I tried to yeU to scare them away, managed a weak croak. I got my eyes open, dis covered that my face was against a dusty rug with a pattern of faded fruits and flowers; I crawled as far as the wall-mounted lavatory, pulled myself up, got the cold water on, splashed it over my head. I could hear myself moaning, like a dog begging to be let in on a cold night; it didn't seem important. I let myself moan. There was yellow light outside the dirt-scaled window when I tottered across to the bed; the next time I looked it was deep twilight. Time seemed to be slipping by in large pieces, Hke an ice-floe breaking up. I got up on the third try, went back and used more cold water, then braced my feet and risked a look in the mirror. An hour later, with half a dozen assorted feverdepressants, cortical stimulants, metabolic catalyzers, and happy pills in my stomach, I took a hot shower, shaved, put a clean tape on my jaw and went downstairs. The clerk used his worried look at me. "Maybe you hadn't ought to go out, sir," he suggested. I said "I'll manage. Where's Franklin Street?" He gave me directions and I went out into the chill of the late autumn night. I considered calling a cab, but decided against it. My experiences had made me wary of sharing confined spaces with strangers. Using the pick-up was out, too; a hot car might attract just the attention I was most desirous of avoiding at the moment. I started off at a wobbling gait that steadied as the chemicals in my blood stream started to work, my breath freezing into ice-crystals. The Post Office was a low, yellowish armorplast front with a glass door flanked on one side by a codepunch panel, and on the other by colorful exhortations to Enlist Now in the Peace Brigade and Fight For the Way of Life of Your Choice. I strolled to the panel, punched keys one, seven, four, and two. Machinery whirred. A box popped into view. Through the quarter-inch armorplast, I could see a thick manilia envelope. The proper code would cause the transparent panel to slide up -- but unfortunately Felix hadn't had time to give k to me. I slammed my fist against the plastic. It made a hell of a loud noise; a faint mark appeared on the panel. I set myself, hit k again as hard as I could. The plastic shattered diis time. I poked the sharp fragments in, got my fingers on the envelope, pulled it out through the jagged opening. I could hear a bell starting up far back inside the building. Nearer at hand, a red light above the door blinked furiously. It was unfortunate -- but a risk I had had to take. I tucked the envelope away, turned, took two steps -- A loping dog-shape rounded the corner, galloped silently toward me. I spun; a second was angling across the street at a dead run. Far down the street, two pedestrians sauntered on their ways, oblivious of what was happening; there was no one else in sight. A third demon appeared at an alley mouth across the street, trotted directly toward me, sharp ears erect, skull-face smiling. IF There was a dark delivery-van at the curb. I leaped to it, tried the door -- locked. I doubled my fist, smashed the glass, got the door open. The nearest demon broke into an awkward gallop. I slid into the seat, twisted the key, accelerated from the curb as the thing leaped. It struck just behind the door, clung for a moment, fell off. I steered for the one in the street ahead, saw it dodge aside at the last instant -- just too late. There was a heavy shock; the car veered. I caught it, rounded a corner on two wheels, steering awkwardly with one hand. The gyros screeched their protest as I zigzagged, missing another dog-thing coming up fast, then straightened out and roared off toward the polyarcs of a major expressway intermix. I caught a glimpse of a road-side sign: I braked quickly, passed the blue glare-sign that indicated the pickup point for the state autodrive system, squealed to a stop fifty yards beyond it. I switched the drive lever back in to flick the van into gear. It started off, came quickly up to speed, jerkily corrected course as it crossed the system monitor line. I watched it as it swung off into the banked curve ahead, accelerating rapidly; then I climbed an ancient wire fence, stumbled across a snow-scattered plouged field and into the shelter of the trees. E xcitement, I was discovering, wasn't good for my ailment. I had another attack of nausea that left me pale, trembling, empty as a looted house, and easily strong enough to sort out a stamp collection, using power-assisted tongs. I swayed on all fours, smelling leafmould and frozen bark, hearing a distant croak of tree-frogs. The demons had laid a neat trap for me. They had watched, followed my movements -- probably from the time I left the ship -- waiting for the proper time to close in. My trick with the van had gained me a few minutes respite -- but nothing more. Alerted police would bring the empty vehicle to a halt within a mile or two; then a cordon would close in, beating every thicket, until they found me. Meanwhile, I had time enough to take a look at whatever it was that I had come five thousand miles to collect -- the thing Felix had guarded with the last fragment of his will. I took the envelope from the inner pocket, tore off one end. A twoinch-square wafer of translucent polyon slipped into my hand. In the faint starlight, I could see a pattern of fine wires and vari-colored beads imbedded in the material. I turned it over, smelled it, shook it, held it to my ear. Identify your self," a tiny voice said. I jumped, held the thing on my palm to stare at it, then cautiously put it to my ear again. You now have sixty seconds in which to identify yourself the voice Fifty-eight seconds and counting... I held the rectangle before my mouth. "Bravais," I said. "John Bravais, "... fifty-two; fiftyone... fifty  I talked to it some more, listened again: "... fortyfour; forty-three; forty two... Talking to it wasn't getting me anywhere. How the hell did you identify yourself to a piece of plastic the size of a book of matches? Fingerprints? A membership card in the National Geographic Society? to the plastic, then listened again:... thirty-one; thirty... There was a pause. the absence of proper identification within thirty seconds, this plaque will detonate. Unauthorized personnel are warned to withdraw to fifty yards. Twenty seconds and counting. Nineteen; eighteen... I had my arm back, ready to throw -- but I checked the motion. The blast would attract everything withih a mile, from flying saucer watchers to red-eyed beast-shapes that loped on hands, like a man -- and I wouldhave lost my one ace in a game where the stakes were more than life and death. I hesitated, looked at the ticking bomb in my hand. "Thinking caps, children," I whispered aloud. "Thinking caps, thinking caps..." Talking to it was no good; ID cards with built-in molecular patterns for special scanners meant nothing to it. It had to be something he hadn't had time to tell me. A signal had to be transmitted. I had nothing -- except an array of gimmicks built into my teeth by Felix... There was a spy-eye detector which would set up a sharp twinge in my left upper canine under any radiation on the spy band; the right gency band receiver; in my right lower third molar, there was miniature radar pulser -- A transmitter. Just possibly -- if there was still time. I jammed the plaque to my ear: "... ten seconds and counting. Nine -- " With my tongue, I pushed aside the protective cap on the tooth, bit down; there was a sour taste of galvanic action as the contacts closed, a tingle as an echo bounced back from metal somewhere out across the night. I pulsed again; if that hadn't done it, nothing would. "Tom are recognized the voice said crisply. "Tom are now seven hundred and thirty-two yards northnorth-east of the station..." I got to my feet, took a bearing on the North Star, and set off through the trees. Nearly an hour later I came out of the woods onto an unsurfaced track, went through a ditch choked with stiff, waist-high weeds, scraped myself getting over a rotting wire fence. There were headlights on the distant highway now, and other IF lights coming out from Coffeyvillc. I put the wafer to my ear... two hundred twenty-two yards, bearing two-oh-seven" the calm voice said. I picked my way past the rusted hulk of a tractor abandoned under the crabbed branches of a dead apple tree, came back into the open, broke into a rur across a grassed stretch that had probably been a pasture forty years earlier. Faint light fell across the ground ahead; my shadow bobbed in front of me, swung aside and disappeared. Cars were closing in on the wood lot behind me. "... hundred and fifty-four yards, bearing two one three... I corrected course to the right, plunged down a slight slope, crashed through a dense growth of brush, went knee-deep into half-frozen muck, sending skim-ice tinkling. Dry stalks broke under my hand as I clawed my Way up an embankment. I came to a gasping halt, checked my position: eighteen yards, bearing two seven five... I left the road, ran past a fallen barn. And there was nothing; not so much as a marker stone or a dry bush. Standing alone in the frozen field, shivering with the bitter cold, I could hear approaching feet -- more than one set of them. I turned to face them, taking deep breaths to charge my air banks, tried to blink the fog from my failing visipn. It would be over in another minute. I would try to kill at least one more of them before those bony snouts found my throat. I started to toss the useless plague aside, on Impulse put it to my ear. " -- rectly above the entry; please re-identify... You are now directly above the entry; please re-identify... You are now -- " I groped with my tongue, bit down on the tooth. Nothing happened. Through the darkness, I saw a movement among the scattered trees. Near at hand, there was a soft hum, a grating sound. Directly before me, dirt stirred; a polishedcylinder a yard across, dirt-topped, emerged from the earth, rose swiftly to a height of six feet. With a click! a panel slid back, exposing an unlighted and featureless interior. I didn't linger; I stepped inside, felt the shaft start down, and stumbled out into warmth and silence. I was in a small, softly-lit room with a polished floor, warm to the touch, and walls which were a jumble of ancient, varnished oak cabinet-work, gray-painted equipment housings, instrument panels, indicator lights, and controls resembling those of a Tri-D starship. Exposed wiring and conduit crisscrossed the panels. A vast clock with fanciful Roman numerals and elaborate hands said ten minutes past ten. It was like nothing I had ever seen -- except for a remote resemblance to Felix's underground laboratory in Tamboula. I felt an urge to hysterical laughter as I thought of the things up above, prowling the ground now, converging on the spot from which I had miraculously disappeared. How long IF would it be before they started to dig? The urge to laugh died. I closed my eyes, gathered my forces, such as they were, and keened my hearing... Rustling sounds in the earth aU about me; the slow grind of the earthworm, the frantic scrabble, pause, scrabble of the burrowing mole, the soft, tentative creak of the questing root... I tuned, reaching out... Wind moaned in the trees. Soft footfalls thump, thumped, crossing the field above me. There was the growl of a turbine, coming closer, the grate of tires in soft earth. A door slammed, feet clumped. '# did not come this way" a flat voice said. Something gibbered -- a sound that turned my spine to ice. "Zr is sick and weak" the first voice said. 'lt is only a man. It did not come this way. It is not here" More of the breathy gobbling; I could almost see the skull-face, the grinning mouth, the rag-tongue moving as it commanded the manshaped slave standing before it. "# is not here" the humanoid said. # will return to my post in the village." Now the gabble was angry, insistent. It commanded. It is not logical," the toneless voice said. It went another way. The other units will find it." Two beast-things gibbered. You let it escape you at the vih lage," a lifeless voice replied. Thai was not in accordance with logic." The argument went on, twenty feet above my hidden sanctuary. ... a factor which we cannot compute," a dead voice stated. "To remain here is unintelligent." Footsteps tramped away. The car door clattered open, slammed. A turbine growled into life; tires crunched the hard earth, going away. Soft feet paced above me. Two of the creatures, possibly three, crossed and re-crossed the area. I could hear them as they conferred,' a conversation of goblins. Then two stalked away, while the third settled down heavily to wait. y took out my talking plastic rectangle and put it to my ear. "... now in Survival Station Twelve," the precise voice was saying. "Place this token in the illuminated slot on the station monitor panel." There was a pause. "You are now in Survival Station Twelve  Across the room, there was a recessed scrollwork console dimly lit by a yellow glare strip. I wavered across to it, found the lighted slot, pressed the wafer into it, then leaned against a chair, waiting. Things clicked and hummed; a white light snapped on, giving the room a cheery, clinical look, like a preparatory buzz, matching the humming in my head; then: "This is your Station Monitor," a deep voice said in near-monotone. "The voice you hear is a 'speechconstruct, capable of verbalizing computer findings. The unit is also capable of receiving programming instructions verbally. Please speak distinctly and unambiguously. Do not employ slang or unusual constructions Avoid words having multiple denotations." The room seemed to fade and brighten, swaying like a cable-car in a high wind. I was beginning to learn the signs; I would black out in a few seconds. I looked, around for a soft place to fall, while the voice droned on. Abruptly, it broke off. Then: 'Emergency overidel" it said sharply. "Sensing instruments indicate you require immediate medical attention... There was a sound behind me; I turned. As in a dream, I saw a white-sheeted cot deploy from a wall recess, roll across the room hunting a little, then come straight on and stop beside me. "Place yourself on the cot, with your head at the equipment end." The voice echoed from far away. I made a vast effort, pushed myself clear of the chair, fell across the bed. I was struggling to get myself on it, when I felt a touch, twisted to see padded, jointed arms grasp me and gently but firmly hoist me up and lay me out, face-down. The sheet was smooth and cool under my face. "You will undergo emergency diagnosis and treatment," the voice said. "An anesthetic will be administered if required. Do not be alarmed." I caught just one whiff of neopolyform. Then I was relaxing, letting it all go, sliding down a long, smooth slope into a warm, dark sea. I came out of it with a sensation that took me a moment or two to analyze -- a cold-water, gray-skies. no-nonsense sort of feeling. For tho first time in days -- how many I didn't know -- the fine feverish threads of delirium were lacking in the ragged fabric of my thoughts. I took a breath, waited for the familiar throb of pain between my temples, the first swell of the seasickness in my stomach; nothing happened. I got my eyes open and glanced over at my left arm; it was strapped to a board, swathed in bandages to the wrist, bristling with metal clips and festooned with tubing. In sudden panic, I moved the fingers of the hand projecting from the bandages. They twitched, flexed awkwardly. With an effort, I reached across with my right hand, touched the smooth skin of the knuckles of the other. Under my fingers, the texture was cool, inhumanly glossy; the cold gloss of polyon. I raked at the bandages, tore them back -- An inch below the wrist, the pseudo-skin ended. A pair of gleaming metal rods replaced the familiar curve of my forearm. A sort of animal whimper came from my throat. I clenched my lost fist -- and the artificial hand complied. I fell back, feeling a numbness spread from the dead hand all through me. I was truncated, spoiled, less-than-whole. I made an effort to sit up, to tear free from the restraining straps, wild ideas of revenge boiling up inside me -- I was as weak as a drowned kitten. I lay, breathing hoarsely, getting used to the idea... The Station Monitor's level voice broke into the silence: IF Emergency override now conduded. Resuming normal briefing procedure." There was a pause; then the voice went on in its tone of imperturbable calm: "Indicate whether full status briefing is required; if other, state details of requirement." "How long have I been unconscious?" I croaked. My voice was weak, but understandable. "Question requires a value assessment of non-objective factors; authorization requested." "Never mind. How long have I been here?" "Eighteen hours, twenty-two minutes, six seconds, mark. Eight hours, twe -- " "Close enough," I cut in. "What's been happening?" "On the basis of the initial encephalogrammatic pattern, a preliminary diagnosis of massive anaphylactic shock coupled with acute stage four metabolic -- " "Cancel. I don't need the gruesomer details. You've hacked off my arm, replaced it with a hook, cleared out the infection, and gotten the fever down. I guess I'm grateful. But what are the dog-things doing up above?" There was a long silence, with just the hum of an out-of-kilter carrier. Then: "Question implies assumption at variance with previously acquired two-valued data." "Can't you give me a simple answer?" I barked weakly. "Have they started to dig?" "Question implies acceptance at objective physical level of existence and activities of phenomenon classified as subjective. Closed area. Question cannot be answered." "Wait a minute -- you're telling me that the four-handed monsters and the fake humans that work with them are imaginary?" "To avoid delays in responses, do not employ slang or unusual constructions. All data impinging on subject area both directly and indirectly, including instrument-acquired statistical material, photographic and transmitted images, audio direct pick-up, amplification, and replay, and other, have been, A, systematically rejected by Operators as incorrect, illusory, or non-objective; B, produced negative hallucinatory reactions resulting in inability of Operators to perceive read-outs; or, C, been followed by mental breakdown, unconsciousness or death of Operators." "In other words, whenever you've reported anything on the demons the listeners either didn't believe you, couldn't see or hear your report, or went insane or died." "Affirmative." "Has... ah... anything started to dig? Are there any evidences of excavation work xsp above?" "Negative." "Can the presence of diis station be detected using a mass-discont uity-type detector?" "Negative; the station is probeneutral." I let out a long breath. "What is this place?" I asked. "Who built it? And when?" "Station twelve was completed in #. It has been periodically added to since that time. It is one of a complex of fifty survival stations prepared by the Ultimax Group." "What's the Ultimax Group?" "An elite inner circle organization, international in scope, privately financed, comprising one hundred and fourteen individuals selected on the basis of superior intellectual endowment, advanced specialist training, emotional stability and other factors." "For what purpose?" "To monitor trends in the Basic Survival Factors, and to take such steps as may be required to maintain favorable societal survival ratio." "I never heard of them. How long have they been operating?" "Two hundred and seventy-one years." "My God! Who started it?" "The original Committee included Benjamin Franklin, George Loffitt, Danilo Moncredi and Cyril Ste. Claire." "And Felix Severance was a member?" "Affirmative." "And they don't know about -- the non-objective things up above?" "Question indeterminate, as it requires an assumption at variance with -- " ay -- cancel. You said there are other stations. Can I get in touch with them?" "State the number of the station with which you desire to communicate." "What's the nearest one to Jacksonville?" "Station nineteen, Talisman, Florida. Contact now open, on Number three screen." One of the previously blank panels opposite me glowed into life, showed me a view of a room similar in many particulars to Station twelve, except that its basic decor was a trifle more modern -- the stainless steel of the early Atomic Era. "Anybody home?" I called. There was no reply. I tried the other stations successively. None answered. "That's that," I said. "Tell me more about this Ultimax Group. What's it been doing these past couple of hundred years?" "It contributed materially to the success of the American War of Independence, the defeat of the Napoleonic Empire, the consolidation of the Italian and German nations, the emergence of Nippon, the defeat of the Central Powers in the First Engagement of the European War, and of the Fascist Powers in the Second Engagement, and the establishment of the State of Israel. It supported the Space effort..." I was beginning to, feel a little ragged now; the first fine glow was fading. I listened to the voice for another half-hour, while it told me all about the little-known facts of history; then I dismissed it and took another nap. y ate, slept and waited. After fourteen hours, the straps holding my arm released themselves; after that, I practiced tottering up and down my prison, testing my new IP jurm, and now and then tuning in on what went on overhead. For the most part, there was silence, broken only by the sounds of nature and the slap and thump of pacing feet. I heard a few gobbled conversations, and once an exchange between a humanoid and a demon: "# has means of escaping pursuit" the flat voice was saying as I picked it up. This is the same one that eluded our units at location totterpohl" Angry sounds from a demon... 'That is not my area of surveillance," the first voice said coldly. My work is among the men" Another alien tongue-lashing. reports are negative; the instruments indicate nothing -- " An excited interruption. When the star has set, then.  must call in more units..." The voice faded, going away. "Monitor, it's time for me to start making plans. They're getting restless up above. I'm going to need a few things: clothes, money, weapons, transportation. Can you help me?" "State your requirements in detail." "I need an inconspicuous civiliantype suit, perferably heated. I'll also need underwear, boots and a good hand-gun; one of those Borgia Specials Felix gave me would do nicely. About ten thousand cees in cash -- some small bills, the rest in hundreds. I want a useful ID -- and a good map. I don't suppose you could get me an OE suit and a lift belt, but a radar-negative heli would be verv useful. A high-speed, armored oh" Within half an hour the delivery bin had disgorged a complete wardrobe, including a warm, sturdy, and conservatively cut suit with a special underarm pocket In which the needier nested snugly. My wallet bulged with nicely aged bills. I had a latemodel compass-map strapped to my wrist, a card identifying me as a Treasury man, and a special key tucked in an inner pocket that would open the door to a concealed Ultimax motor depot near Independence, less than thirty miles away. At regular intervals, the Station Monitor gave instructions for treatment, keeping tabs on my condition by means of an array of remotesensing instruments buried in the walls. My strength was returning slowly. The arm was a marvel of bio-prosthetics. The sight of the stark, functional chromalloy radius and ulna gave me a strange, unpleasant sensation every time I saw h, but I was learning to use it; as die nerve-connections healed, I was even developing tactile sensivity in the fingertips. When the chronometer on the wall showed that I had been in the underground station for forty-nine hours that seemed like weeks I made another routine enquiry on conditions up above. "How about k, Monitor?" I called. "Any signs of excavation work going on up there?" There was a long pause -- as there was every time I asked questions around the edges of the Forbidden Topic. "Negative," the voice said at last. "Can you get a message out to somebody for me?" "Affirmative, assuming -- " "Skip the assumptions. He's somewhere in Jacksonville, Florida -- I hope -- assuming the demons didn't kill him just to keep in practice. His name's Joel -- last name unknown, even to him. Address unknown. As of a week ago, he was crewman aboard a sub-tanker called the Excalihur, out of New Hartford. Find him, and tell him to meet me at the where's the nearest diplomatic post?" "The British Consulate at Chicago." "All right; I want Joel to meet me in the lobby of the main Y in Chicago, as soon as he can get there. Do you think you can reach him with what I've given you?" "Indeterminate. Telephone connections can be made with -- " There was a loud, dulltoned thump: that shook. the station. The Monitor's voice wavered and went on: " -- all points on -- " Another thud. I was on my feet, watching microscopic dust particles shaken out of crevices by the impact, settling on the floor. There was another blow, more severe than the others. "What the Hell was that?" I asked -- yelled -- but it was rhetorical; I knew the answer. The demons were at my door. # # A #I right, . talk fast. Monitor," I barked. I pulled on my clothes as I talked, checked the gun. "Is there any other route out of here?" "The secondary exit route leads from the point now indicated by the amber light," the voice said imperturbably. Across the room, I saw an indicator blink on, off, on. "However," the Monitor went on, "departure from the Station at this time is not advised. You have not yet recovered full normal function. Optimum recovery rate will be obtained by continued bed rest, controlled diet, proper medication, and minimal exertion -- " I interrupted it. "You're developing a nagging tone," I told it. "Get that door open. Monitor, I assume you're mined for destruction?" I asked getting more anxious. "Affirmative." "Wait until the last minute -- until there's a nice crowd of curious zombies and other non-existent phonomena around; then blow. Understand?" "Affirmative," the voice said calmly. I went to the narrow exit panel, paused and looked around at the chamber. "So long," I called. There was no answer. I stepped through into the narrow corridor that led endlessly down, emerged into icy-cold, dusty-smelling darkness. Helis were parked there. I selected one, activated its circuit, saw a dome overhead slide open as it began to move. An arctic wind slashed at me. I had gone perhaps a mile, when a sudden glare erupted into the sky from over the brow of the low ridge. A column of red-lit smoke boiled upward. IF XV J ust after sunrise, a small all-dayfor-a-cee parking raft anchored two miles off Chicago accepted my heli with a reassuring sneer of indifference. I took the ski-way ashore, rode a walkaway half a mile to the block-square cube of unwashed glass which housed the fivethousand-bed dormitory of the Young Men's Nondenominational Association. I left word for Joel, asked for and received one of the six-by-eight-foot private cubicles, dropped a half-cee in the slot for a breakfast-table edition pictonews, and settled down to wait, with no more than a modest hope that my last instruction to the Station monitor would bear fruit in the form of the unfortunate Joel, a goodnatured giant with the intelligence of an alert five year old, but with the invaluable ability to detect the presence of prowling demons at a distance of a full half-mile. Hours slipped by while I slept -- a restless sleep, from which I awoke with a start, again and again, hearing the creak of the floor, the rattle of a latch along the corridor. I wasn't hungry; the thought of food made my stomach knot. There was a taste in my mouth like old gym shoes, and a full set of nausea-andheadache symptoms hovered in the wings, ready to come on at the first hint of encouragement. I shaved once, staring at a grim, hollowcheeked face in the mirror -- a face that belonged to a stranger who had done a long stretch in a tough prison on a false charge. The plastic surgery scars were pale lines now, but the shortened nose, lowered hairline, blue eyes and pale crew-cut still looked as unnatural to me as a halloween falseface. I tried to estimate how long it might be before Joel arrived -- if he arrived. It had been five hours since I had given the order to the Monitor. A message would have gone out to Station Nine, the Monitor there would have connections with a telefax or visiscreen switchboard. The order would have gone to a leg-man -- perhaps an ordinary messenger service, or a private detective agency. Someone would have followed the slim leads, checked out the habitual hangouts where Joel spent his time between voyages. It was safe to assume that he was a creature of fixed habit. Once the message -- with funds, I hoped -- was delivered, Joel would be steered to a tube or jet station. Allow two hours for the passage, another hour for him to discover the crosstown kwik-stop... The arithmetic always gave the same answer: he should have been here an hour or two after I arrived. I called the desk again. Nothing. I got off the bed, groaning; aches were beginning to creep through the armor of drugs that were keeping me going. It was time to move -- Joel or no Joel. I had a plan -- not much of one, but the best I could do, alone. I dressed, went down to the vast, echoing lobby -- as cheery as a gas chamber. A few hundred derelicts lounged in rump-spnmg chairs parked on patches of dusty rug like islands in a sea of plastic flooring the color of dried mud. I crossed to the mformation desk, opened my mouth -- and saw Joel stretched out in a chair like a battered boxer between rounds, eyes shut, mouth open, an electric blue scarf knotted around his thick neck like a hangman's noose. I felt my face cracking into a wide grin. I went over to him, shook him gently, then a little harder. His eyes opened. He looked at me blankly for a moment -- his eyes like the windows of an empty house; then he smiled, an expression as innocent as an infant offering sticky candy. "Hi, Jones," he said, sitting up. "Boy, you should've seen the train I rode in! It was all fancy, and there was this nice lady... "He told me all about it while we gripped hands, grinning. Suddenly, now, it was all right. Luck was still with me. The demons had tried -- tried hard -- but I was here, still alive, iron hand and all -- and I wasn't alone. I felt a hint of spring return to my muscles, the first twings of hunger in days. "Joel, there's a job I have to do," I said. "I want you to help me with it." He nodded, incurious but eager to please. Talking, we crossed the vast floor and went out into the winter street. T he British Consulate, perched on piles on the shore of Lake Michigan, was a weather-stained cube of stone filigree done in the sterilized Hindu style that had been a popular cliche back in the nineties. There were lights beyond the grillwork in the wide entry, and on the upper floors. We walked past once, then turned, came back, went up the wide, shallow steps, past a steaming fountain of recirculated heated water glimmering in a purple spotlight, rattled the tall grill. A Royal Marine three-striper in traditional dress blues got up from a desk, came across the wide marble floor to the gate, fingering the hilt of a ceremonial sabre. "The Consulate opens at ten I. M." he said, looking me over through the grille. "My name's Jones," I said. "Treasury. I've got to see the Duty Officer -- now. It can't wait until morning." "Let's see a little identification, sir," the Marine said. I showed him the blue Class One I. D. He nodded, handed the I. D. back through the grill, got out a key, opened up. "That's Mr. Phipps. I'll ring him. You'll 'ave to wait 'ere." I nodded, stood where I could see the approach to the building while the Sergeant went to a desk, dialed, talked briefly. A second Marine came along the corridor, took up a position opposite me. He was a solidly built red-head, not over eighteen. He looked at me with a face as expressionless as a courthouse clock. "E's coming down," the Sergeant said. There was sound of feet coming leisurely down the winding stair-case on my left; a sad-looking tweedsuited man with thinning gray hair and pale blue eyes in wrinkled pockIF cts came into view, slowed when he saw me. He glanced 'at the Marine. "What's this all about, Sergeant?" he said in a tired voice, like someone who has put up with a lot lately and expects more of the same. "Somebody to see you," the Sergeant said. "Sir," he added. The newcomer looked at me suspiciously. "I have some important information to report, Mr. Phipps," I said. "Just who are you, might I inquire?" Phipps asked. His expression indicated that whatever I said, he wouldn't be pleased. "U. S. Treasury." I showed him the I. D. He nodded, looked past me out through the heavy grillwork. "You may as well come along to the office." I followed him to the second floor, along a wide, still, corridor of dark offices, into a lighted room with sexless furnishings in the international official medium-plush style. Joel stood beside me, gaping at a picture of Queen Anne on the wall. #T won't bore you with details, X Mr. Phipps," I said. "I've observed some very odd goings-on. It sounds curious, I know, but... well, it involves a rather unusual dog." I watched his expression closely. He was eyeing me with a bored expression that suggested that this was about what he'd expect from cranks who rattled the grill at a late hour. He patted back a yawn. "Just how are British interests involved, Mr... ah... Jones?" "This dog was intelligent," I bored on. "Well!" His eyebrows went up. "I'm sure I don't..." His eyes went to the door. Footsteps were coming along the hall. I turned. A husky-looking, black-haired man with deepset dark eyes came into the room, looked at me, ignoring Phipps. I saw the Marine in the hall behind him. I didn't need a second glance to know I had found what I was looking for. I felt my pulse start to beat a little faster. "What is it you want here?" he snapped, not bothering with preliminaries. "Ah, Mr. Clomesby-House, Mr. Jones, of the American Treasury Department," Phipps said, sitting up in his chair. He ducked his head, adjusting a look of alert interest on his dried-out features. I surmised that Clomesby-House was his boss. "Mr. Jones was just lodging a complaint regarding a... um...  dog," Phipps started Clomesby-House narrowed his eyes at me. "What dog is this?" he rapped out. "Well," I laughed diffidently. "It sounds pretty silly, here in a nice clean office -- but some pretty odd things have been happening to me lately. They all seem to center around the dogs..." He waited. "It's a secret spy network -- I'm sure of it," I went on. "I have plenty of evidence. Now, I don't want you to just take my word for it. I have a friend who's been helping me -- " His dark eyes went to Joel. "This man knows of this, too?" IF "Oh, he's Qot the one I meant. He just gave me a lift over. These dogs II "You have seen them -- often?" "Well, every now and again." "And why did you come here -- to the British Consulate?" "I'm coming to that part. You see -- well, actually, it's a little hard to explain." I looked anxious -- like a nut who wants to reveal the location of a flying saucer, but is a little shy about butterfly nets. "If you could possibly spare the time -- I'd like you to meet my friend. It's not far I He was still squinting at me. His fingers squeaked as he tensed them against the desk-top. I remembered Julius exhibiting the same mannerism -- a nervous habit of the notmen when they had a decision to make. I could almost hear him thinking: it would be simplicity itself for him to summon the strait-jacket crew, let them listen to my remarks about intelligent dogs, and let nature take its course. But on the other hand, what I had to say just might alert someone, cause unwelcome inquiries, invite troublesome poking about... He gave a Prussian nod. "As you wish. Come along." F orty-five minutes later, with my nose against the glass, I stared down at a vast expanse of unbroken blackness spread out below. It was the Yerkes National Forest. "This is the place," I said. "Set her down right here. Clomesby-House shot me a look which would have curdled spring water. "Here?" he growled. I nodded brightly; it was as good a place as any for what I had in mind. He hissed, angled the heli sharply downward. I could sense that he was beginning to regret his excessive caution in whisking me away to a lonely place where he could deal with me and my imaginary accomplice privately. He had wasted time and fuel on a pair of soft, feeble humans. Clomesby-House was either an excellent pilot or a fool; he whipped the heli in under the spreading branches of a stand of hundred-foot hybrid spruce, grounded it without a jar, slammed a door open, letting in a wintry blast, and climbed out. The landing lights burned blue-white pools on the patchy snow, flickering as the rotor blades spun to a stop. "Stay behind me, Joel," I said quickly. "No matter what happens, don't interfere. Just keep alert for the dog-things; you understand?" He gave me a startled look. "Are they gonna come here, Jones...?" "I hope not..." I jumped out, stood facing Clomesby-House. Behind me, Joel hugged himself, staring around at the great trees. "Very well," the not-man said, his black eyes probing me like cold pokers. "Where is the other man?" He stood in a curious slack position, like a mannikin that hasn't been positioned by the window dresser. Out here, with just two soon-to-bedead humans watching, it wasn't necessary to bother with the all troublesome details of looking human. I went close to him, stared into bis all-too-perfect face. "Never mind all that," I said. "It was just a come-on. It's you I want to talk to. Where did you come from? What do you want on Earth?" All the expression went out of his face then. He stood for a moment, as though considering a suggestion I know the signs; he was communing with another inhuman brainsomewhere not too distant. I stepped to him quickly, hit him in the pit of the stomach with all my strength. He bounced back like a tackle dummy hit by a swinging boom, crashed against a tree-trunk, rebounded -- still on his feet. In the instant of contact, I had felt something break inside him -- but it wasn't slowing him down. He launched himself at me, hands outstretched, the arrogance of the invulnerable alien, still not understanding that this time the man before him was something more than mere victim. I met him with a straight right smash to the head that spun him, knocked him to the ground. He scrambled, sending great gouts of frozen mud and snow flying, came to his feet. The thing shaped like a man came toward me, expressionless, one arm hanging, the other raised, hand flattened for an axeblow. I raised an arm, took an impact like a trip-hammer on my steel arm, countered with a smashing chest-punch. It was a waste of effort; the thing's thoracic area was armored like a dinosaur's skull. It brought its arm around in a swipe that caught me glancingly across the shoulder, sent me reeling... Joel was between us, huge fists ready; he landed a smashing left that would have felled an ox, followed with a right that struck the cold, smooth face like a cannonball; the creature seemed not to notice. It struck out, and Joel went skidding. Then the thing was past him, charging for me. Joel's diversion had given me the necessary moment to set myself. I caught the descending arm in a two-handed grip, hauled it around, broke it across my chest, hurled the alien from me, then, as it tripped and fell, aimed a kick that caught it just on the kneecap. It went down then, and I stood over it, breathing hard, as it threshed helplessly, silently, trying to rise on its broken leg. #Ton't struggle," I got out beI -- tween breaths. "That wouldn't be logical, would it? Now it's time for you to tell me a few things: where did you come from? What world?" It lay still then, a broken toy, no longer needed. "You will die soon," it said flatly. "Maybe; meanwhile just call me curious. Where's your headquarters? Who runs things, you or the dogs? What do you do with the men you steal -- or their brains?" "Information is of no use to the soon-dead," the flat voice stated indifferently. Behind me, Joel moaned, a thin, high wail of animal torment. I whirled to him. He lay, oddly crumpled, at the base of a giant IF tree, his face white, shocked. Blood ran from his mouth. I went to him, knelt. The front of his shirt was a sodden mass of bloody fabric. The thing's blow had smashed his chest as effectively as a falling safe. Toel. hold on... I'll get you to a doctor!" I eased my arms under him. started to life. He shrieked and twisted once. "It tickles in my head," he whimpered. "I don't like it when it tickles in my head." His eyes fell on me. "I can't get up, Jones," he said. "Please help me get up..." "Don't trv to move, Joel. You're hurt inside." "I don't want the dogs to come, Jons. I'm afraid." "The dogs?" I felt my scalp tighten. "Here? Are you sure?" I twisted. staring into the deep forest all around, saw nothin. "Come on, Joel: I'm going to lift you into the heli..." T put a hand under his back, half-lifted him. He screamed hoarsely. I lowered him. "It hurts too bad, Jones," he gasned out. "I'm sorry... "Where are the dogs, Joel? How long before they'll be here?" "They're close, Jones...I whirled on the broken manthing. "How far away are they?" I mapped. "You called them; how long before they'll be here?" It looked at me with the one eye that remained in its battered head, said nothing. I kicked it in the side, hard enough to hurt my foot, sent the limp body skidding two yards. "Talk, damn you!" It merely looked at me, as impersonally as a morgue attendant taking inventory. Its gaze went past me; it seemed to be listening... Then I felt it -- the greasy, gray feeling of unreality that meant the demons were closing on the attack. I keened my hearing... I heard the lope of demonic hands, galloping across frozen ground, brushing against brittle, leaf less twigs, coming closer. "You... gotta... hurrv... up..." Joel's voice croaked. "G-by, Jones You was... a good friend. I guess you was... the only friend... I ever had..." I looked at him. He was dying: I knew that nothing I could do would save him. And a few feet away, the heli waited, fuelled, ready to go. In three steps I could be in if, lifting off to leave the demon horde clashing their jaws in frustrated fury. I would be free then to contact the Ultimax Group, carry on the fight... I took a step toward the heli, and my eyes fell on Joel's face -- the face of a child, afraid, but trying not to show it. And I remembered Felix, whom I had left alone, to die beneath a tidal wave of horror "Take it easy, Joel," I said. My voice was hoarse. "I'm not leaving. I'm staying with you." He opened his mouth to say something, but no sound came out. There was a crash of underbrush and I whirled. A dark dog-shape bounded from the shadow of a giant tree, skidded to a halt, then charged into the circle of light. I set myself, waited -- and as it leaped. threw my weight into a straightarm blow that met the scraped-bonc face in mid-air, drove it back in pulped ruin into the shattered skull. The thing hurtled past me, struck, threshing in its death-fit. Two more of the beast-things leaped into view, sprang at me side by side. I jumped to meet them, caught one by the neck, crushed bone and hide together, hurled it aside, turned to drive a kick into the chest of the second. There were more of them around me now; I spun, kicked at one, struck another down with my chromalloy fist, shook a third from my right arm, fended off another... It was a nightmare battle against leaping creatures almost imblows; they came at me like bounding ghost-shapes, red-eyed and gapejawed, and I struck, and struck... A white hot bear-trap closed on my leg, I tried to shake it off. It clung, dragging at me. Then I was down, and the weight on me was like heaped mattresses set with needles of fire; I thought of a man drowning in a sea of piranha, razor teeth stripping the flesh from the living bone. I felt the tearing of flesh. As in a dream, I heard the gobble of demon voices, the slap of beast hands. And then the blackness that I knew was death closed over me. S omewhere, I dream in a sunless emptiness. The years arch over the long avenue of time, Into the static Universe, change comes I sense movement, the slide and turn of intricate components, and the tentative questing of sensors, like raw nerves hesitantly exposed. Light, form, color, impinge on de licate instruments. Space takes on dimension, texture. All around me a broad plain of shattered rock and black shadows stretches away to a line of fire at the edge of the world, under the glare of a sun that rages purplewhite against bottomless silver-black. A shape moves, small with distance -- and beyond it, others. I am moving, too, driving forward effortlessly over the rough ground, throwing up dust in heavy clouds that drop back with a curious quickness. Rock-chips fly, twinkling as they fall. I sense vibrations; the thunder of my passage, the whine and growl of meshing metal, the oscillation of electrons. Abruptly, from beyond the jagged horizon, an object comes, a glittering torpedo-shape tipped with blue fire, flashing with a swiftness that swells it in a moment to giant size. I feel the closing of rays within me; circuits come alive. My back arches; I left my arms and thrust -- Fire lances from my fingertips, the spangled sky. I pivot, trailing the shattered projectile as it gouts incandescence, breaks apart, falls in fragments beyond a distant stony ridge. A growl of thunder rolls, dies. I rake my eyes across the desolate spread of fragmented shale around me, mark a flicker of movement among up-tilted rock-slabs, point and IF fire in one smooth corordwaied motion . Ana still I plunge on, charging to a blind attack against an unknown enemy. I grina down a long slope, dozing aside rock-chunks, jolting across crevasses. A vast shape swings from an inky shadow to y left, pivots heavily, trailing a shattered tread. A dreadnought of the enemy, damaged, left behind in the retreat, but with her offensive power intact.  see the immense disrupted grid swing to hear on me, glow to red heat --  lock full emergency power to my prime batteries, open my mouth, and bellow -- and bellow again... Then  am racng off-side, driving for the crest of a ridge, over it, down the far slope os molten rock bubbles behind me. The shock wave strikes and I am lifted, flung downslope. I catch myself, claw for purchase; the limping monster appears on the ridge and  hurl my thunder at it and see' its exposed grid shat-ter, explode...  turn back slowly to rejoin my column. Tne battle continues. The words flash into my mind like the silent blow of a bright axe, not spoken in English, hut spat in an abbreviated Command Code of harsh inflected syllables. I hear myself acknowledge the order in kind, as an instant compulsive response my damage sensors race through a fiftythousand-item checklist like rats scurrying among filled shelves. Negative, I hear myself report. All systems functional. But deep inside me a dam strains, cracks, bursts. A tendril of released thought, startled awake by the command, seems to grope, struggling outward. Word-images, sharp-chiseled as diamonds, thrust among the bodiless conceptualizations of' rote conditioning. I reach back, hack -- to the blinding light of a strange awakening, past confusion and dawning awareness... back... into a bland, ever-dwindling record of stimulus, pain, stimulus, pleasure; a wordless voice that speaks, instructs, impresses, punishes, rewards -- printing on my receptive mind the skein of conditioned reflex, the teachings that convert the blanked protoplasm of the shocked brain into the trained battle-computer of a dreadnought of the line... And in the forefront of my mind, I am remembering, somewhere long ago, a body -- of flesh and blood, soft, feeting, complex, infinitely responsive. A target flashes, and I aim and fire. That impulse had once lifted an arm, pointed a finger. A human finger. A human body. I savor the concept, at once strange and as familiar as life itself. The fragile concept of identity crystallizes from vagueness, grows, sharpens -- There is a moment of disorientation, a swirling together and a rending apart. I am a man. A man named Bravais. The habit of obedience carried me forward over rough ground, maneuvering in response to longlearned rules as rigid as laws of nature. My sensors lanced out, I locked to my fellow machines. My control mechanisms acted, swinging me to the point of zero-stress, then driving me forward. In my mind, thoughts jostled each other: Secondary target, track!...  you meet another Julius, break him in two and keep going... advance, assault speed... this is your Station Monitor; permission requested to multilate the body ,... arm all batteries; then micro-second alert...  guess you was the only friend I ever had -- Suddenly, vividly I remembered the fight with the demons, the weight of the stinking bodies that bore me down, teeth tearing at my throat... ' I had seen the enemy at work -- tfie deft saws, the clever scalpels. I remembered the brain of the Algerian major, lifted from the skull, preserved. As I was now preserved. The demons had killed my body, left, it to rot in the forest. But now I lived again -- in the body of a great machine. The command struck at me, a mental impulse of immense power. I watched, an observer aloof from the action as my conditioned-response complex reacted, sensing the fantastic complexity of the workings of the mobile fort that was now my body, order galvanized my automatic responses in instant obedience. On impulse, I intercepted the command; then I reached out along my circuits, sent out new commands. I turned myself, faced the violet sun, moved ponderously forward; I halted, pivoted, tracked my guns across the darkling sky. Somehow I had gained control of my machine-body. I remembered the command -- the external voice that would have asserted its control -- But instead, it had cued my hypnotically produced reserve personality-fraction into active control! I withdrew, felt the automatics resume control, moving me off to my new station. The enemy was clever, and as thorough as death. I had been tracked down, killed, chained in slavery on a ruined no-man's world; but I had broken the bonds. I was alive, master of my fortressbody. Free, inside the enemy defenses. L ater -- hours or days, I had no way of calculating time -- I rumbled down an echoing tunnel into a vast cavern, took my place in a long line of scarred battle units. f# IF I moved forward. Other units moved up, stationed themselves on cither side of me. A long silence grew. I was aware that other orders were being given -- orders not addressed to me, automatically tuned out by my trained reflexes. Something was going on. I made an effort, extended sensitivity, picked up the transmission: " -- malfunction! Escort unit eighty-four to decontamination chamber and stand by during reflexcheck! Acknowledge and execute! I heard the snick of relays closing; I was hearing the internal command circuits of my fellow battle units. I let my automation-circuits stir me into motion; I moved off, listening as the command voice gave a final instruction to my armed guard:  Units eighty-three and eightyfive; at first indication of deviant response, trigger destruct circuits! I saw the turrets of the battlewagons beside me swing to cover me; their ports slid back, the black snouts of infinite repeaters emerged, aimed and ready. The commandmind had already sensed something out of the ordinary in Unit Eightyfour. I rolled on toward the interrogation chamber, monitoring the flow of reflex-thought in the minds of the units beside me -- a dull sequence of course-correction, alert-reinforcements, routine functional adjustments. Carefully, using minimal power, I reached out... nit eighty-three; damage report!" I commanded. Nothing happened. The battle units were programmed to accept commands from only one source -- the command voice. "Units eighty-three and eightyfive; arm weapons; complete prefire drill! the command came. From beside me, I heard arming locks slide open. Together, my guards and I entered the cell. the voice of the Interrogator rang out. I watched as my well-drilled reflexes went through their paces. I would have to move with great care now; every action was under scrutiny by the enemy. Another command came, and as I responded, I studied the quality of the Interrogator's voice. It was different, simpler, lacking the overtones of emotion of the Command-mind. I reached out my awareness toward it, sensed walls of armor, the complex filaments of circuitry. I followed a communications lead which trailed off underground to a distant bunker. The intricacy of a vast computer lay exposed before me. I probed gently, testing the shape and density of the mechanical mind-field; it was a poor thing, a huge but feeble monomaniac -- but it was linked to memory banks. I felt a warning twitch of alarm in the moroncircuits, caught the shape of an intention -- Instantly I shunted aside its command, struck back to seize control of the computer's limited discretionary function. Holding firm, f traced the location of the destructassembly which it would have activated, found it mounted below my brain, disarmed it. Then I instructed the Interrogator to continue with the routine check-out, and to report all normal. While it busied itself in idiot obedience, I linked myself to its memory banks and scanned the stored data. The results were disappointing. The Interrogator's programming was starkly limited, a series of test patterns for fighting and service machines. I withdrew, knowing no more than I had of the enemy. The Interrogator reported me as battle-ready, and, on command, I rejoined my waiting comrades. An As the energy quotient in my servo-circuits dropped, the sensitivity range of my receptors drew in, scanning from the gamma scale down through ultra-violet, past infra-red, into the dullness of short-wave. Silence and darkness settled over the depot. I sent out a pulse, scanned the space around me. The clatter of the command voice was gone. I was alone now -- I and my comatose comrades-in-arms. There were ninety-one units, similar to myself in most respects, but armed with a variety of weapons. Small, busy machines scurried among us, carrying out needed repairs. I touched one, caught vague images of a simplified world-image, outlined in scents and animal drives. I recognized it as the brain of an Earthly dog. It had been programmed to operate the elementary maintenance apparatus. Reaching farther, I encountered the confused mutter of a far-flung communications system, a muted surf-roar of commands, acknowledgements, an incoherent clutter of operation messages, meaningless to me. I touched the mind of the fighting machine beside me, groped along the dark passages of its dulled nervecomplex, found the personality center. A sharp probing impulse elicited nothing. The ego was paralyzed. I withdrew to its peripheral awareness level; a dim glow of consciousness lingered there. 'Who are you?' I called. Unit eightythree, of the line," the reply was a flat monotone. You were a man once, I told it. What was your nameT "Unit eighty-three of the line," the monotone repeated. "Combat ready, standing by at low alerU Awaiting orders" I tried another; the result was the same. There was no hint of personality in the captive brain. They were complex neurotronic circuits, nothing more. Compact, efficient, with trained reflex-patterns, cheaper and easier to gather from the warring tribes of Earth than to duplicate mechanically. I stirred another quiescent brain. IF probed at the numbed ego, pried without success at the opaque shield of stunned tissue that surrounds it. It was hopeless. I would find no allies here -- only slaves of the enemy. F ree inside the enemy fortress --  in a flawless camouflage -- I was helpless without information. I needed to know what and where the Command Voice was, the disposition of other brigades, the longrange plan of action, who the enemy was that we fought on the fire-shattered plain -- and on what world the plain lay. I would learn nothing here, parked in a subterranean depot. It was time to take risks. An impulse to my drive mechanuisinow sent me forward out of the line-up. I swung around, moved off toward the tunnel through which I had entered the cave. In the utter silence, the clash of my treads transmitted through my frame was deafening. I filtered out the noise, tuned my receptivity for sounds of other activity nearby. There were none. Past the ranked combat units, high and grim in the lightless place, the tunnel mouth gaped dark. I entered if, ascended the sloping passage, reached a massive barrier of flint-steel. I felt for the presence of a control-field, sensed the imbecile mechanism of the lock. A touch, and it responded, sent out the pulse that rolled the immense doors back. I moved out into the open under a blazing black sky. I studied the landscape, realizing for the first time that my field of vision included the entire circum-' ference of the horizon. Nothing stirred all across the barren waste. Here and there the ruins of a combat unit showed dark against gray dust. The flaring purple sun was low over the far ridges now; a profusion of glittering stars seemed to hang close overhead. I didn't know in what direction the enemy headquarters might lie. I picked a route that led across levd ground toward a lone promontory and started toward it. F rom my vantage point atop the conical hill, I saw the tips of saw-toothed peaks that formed a wide ring around my position, theii? bases out of sight over the near horizon. My sense of scale was confused by the strange aspect reality assumed through unfamiliar senses. Instinct told me that the shattered slab before me was perhaps five yards long. I stirred it with my treads, saw it bound away, flip lightly over, sink to rest, stirring coarse dust which boiled up, dropped back like mud under water. I was no better at judging my ovm size. Was I a vast, multi-tc apptfatus, or a tiny fighting maphine no bigger than a one-man jet-ped? The horizon seemed close. Was it refSHf only a mile or two away -- or was my visual range so far extended that a hundred miles seemed only a step? Self-analysis wasn't getting me any closer to my objective -- enemy intelligence. Perhaps beyond the . shelter of the wide crater I would see some indications of life. I headed for a cleft between steep cliffs, churned up through dust that fountained behind me, gained the pass. The view ahead showed the same sterile rock and dust that I had left behind me. I went on, down the slope and out across the plain, skirting bumed-out machines, some of fantastic design, others twins to my own grim body. I passed small craters -- whether natural formations or the results of bombardment I couldn't tell. The distant babble of confused commands was a background to the crackle of starstatic. I felt neither hunger or fatigue -- only a burning curiosity as to what lay beyond the next ridge, and a nagging fear that I might be discovered and destroyed before I had taken my revenge for what had been done to me... The strange machine appeared suddenly at the top of a sheer cliff that ran obliquely across my route. It saw me at the same instant that I saw it, pivoted, depressing its guns to bear on me. In place of the simple markings of the battle units I had seen, there were complicated insignia painted in garish colors across ks hull. I halted, waiting. familiar voice of my Brigade commander boomed in my mind. "Unit eighty-four of the line, combat ready As I reported, I extended a probing impulse across the insubstantial not-space, touched the shape of the mind behind the voice. With an instantaneous reflex, it struck at me. The slave circuits of my brain resonated with the power of the blow -- but in that instant I had seen the strange workings of the alien mind, scanned the pattern of the assault it had hurled at me -- and now I traced the path of primary volition, struck back, caught the enemy ego in an unbreakable grip. "Who are you?" I demanded. I t gibbered, writhed, fought to escape; I held it tighter -- like gripping a lashing snake in bare hands. "Answer, or I destroy you!" "I am Zixz, Centurion of the line, of the Nest of the Thousand Agonies Suffered Gladly. What Over-mind are you... "Where do you come from?" "I was spawned in the muck beds of Kzak, by order of the Bed-master" "You're not human. Why were you installed in a machine?" "I was condemned for the crime of inferiority. Here I expiate that fault." "What world is this?" The reply was a meaningless identity-symbol. "Why do you fight this war?" The captive alien mind howled out its war slogan -- as incomprehensible as an astrologer's jargon. I silenced it. "How many Brigades are engaged?" "Four thousand, but not all are at full strength." "Who is the enemy?" The symbol that the alien hurled at me was a compound of horrors. IF " Where is your headquarters? I demanded. I caught an instant's glimpse of twisted towers, deep caverns, and concept: the Place that Must Be Defended. Then the alien lunged against my control, shrieked an alarm -- I tightened my grip and sudden silence fell. Cautiously, I relaxed. A few threads of dying thought spiraled out from the broken mind; then it winked out like a quenched ember. I had killed the Centurion Zixz. And into the void, a thunderous command roared. Quickly I shaped a concept, counterfeiting the dead Centurion's mind pattern: 'Brigade strength ninetyone; ready for combat. Delayed by necessity for destruction of defective unit, I countered. Proceeding as ordered I broke in, still feigning the mind-voice of Zixz: "Massive enemy flanking attack! New weapons of unfamiliar capability! Non-detectible units assaulting me in overwhelming numbers. But while I transmitted the false report to the Overmind, I extended a delicate sensing line, brushed over the other, felt out the form of a mighty intelligence, vastly more powerful than that of Zixz. And yet the structure was familiar -- like that of the Centurion, magnified, reinforced. And here was the primary volitional path. I moved along as lightly as a spider stalking a gnat, came into a vast mind-cavern, ablaze with the power of a massive intellect. Busily I concocted fantastic mass and firepower readings, fanciful descriptions of complex and meaningless enemy maneuvers; and while I held the Over-mind's attention, I searched -- and found its memory vaults. T here was the image of a great nest, seething with voracious life -- a nest that covered a world, leaped to another, swelled through an ever-increasing volume of space, driven by lusts that burned like living fire in each tiny mote that comprised the swarming tribe. I saw the outward writhing pseudopods of this burgeoning race as they met, slashed at each other with mindless fury -- and then flowed on, over every obstacle, changing, adapting to burning suns and worlds of ice, to the near-null gravity of tiny rock-worlds and the smashing forces of titan-planets of collapsed matter. The wave reached the edge of its IF galaxy, boiled up, reached out vainly over the void -- and, defeated, recoiled on itself, churning back toward Galactic center, stronger now, more ruthless, possessed of a vast frustrated rage that shrieked its insatiable needs, devouring all in its path -- and coming together at last in an eruption of mad vitality that rent the very fabric of space. And from the void at the heart of the universe, the wave rolled out again. It was tempered in the fires of uncounted ages of ravening combat, up its substance now in a new upsurge of violence that made the past invasions seem as somnolent as spawning pools. Again the edge of the galaxy was reached, and there the wave built, poised -- and bridged the gap to the next galaxy. Over the slim link, life flowed, fighting, slashing, devouring, leaping from new feeding ground to in a transcendent fury of hunger, again a leap into nothingness -- and a new galaxy was reached. Nothing remained in the Nestmind of its original character. It had become a vast mechanism for growth, a disease that radiated outward from a center so distant in the universe that the mind itself in time forgot its beginnings. Units broke free, withered, faded, died. Random islands of the raging vitality consumed themselves, disappeared. A long arm turned back, groped its way along the chains of burnedout worlds, scavenging, growing, to lance in the end into the original nest place, to devastate it and go on, blind, insensate, insatiable -- and finding no new feeding grounds beyond, it turned upon itself. I withdrew from the Over-mind, and for a moment I held the long perspective of that view. I saw my world as the insignificant scintilla that it was among the stars, my own human race a sinister tribe of barbaric freaks, harvested like wild bees. A great gleaming planet, had risen above the broken horizon, casting a bluish light across the darkling plateau. I saw the gleam of white from a misty patch on the overcurve of the glaring world, the pale outlines of continents. Familiar continents. I was looking at the full Earth, a space. T here was no time now to indulge the pangs of homesickness. The Over-mind continued to pour out orders to its dead centurion, and I babbled responses, describing the maneuvering of immense imaginary fleets, fabulous aerial assaults, weapons of incredible destructive power. And while I transmitted, I raced along the base of the cliff toward the shelter of a distant ringwall. In the open now, I saw the dust clouds of distant brigades on the move, coming closer. I altered course, steered for a smaller crater almost lost over the curve of the lunar horizon. I skirted a vast tumulus of. broken rock, thundered out into the clear -- " Spread all across my route, a full brigade of heavy combat units churned toward me under a pall of dust. I swung away to the left; at once, a harsh voice rang in my mind: I ignored the call, saw a unit detach itself, race to intercept me. I halted, swung to bring my guns to bear. I opened my receptors, heard a harsh command: For a moment, I hesitated, ready to pour my fire into the enemy. Then I felt the probe of the stranger's mind reach out to me. Goshr a familiar voice exclaimed in my mind. 'Whafre you doin' here, Jones? XX iinphat's how it was, Jones, A Joel said. "For a while I just watched; I looked at the country and tried to figure out where I was. All I knew was, I was Unit One Hundred of the line -- and I was Joel, too. But everything was different. There was fighting going on 'bout all the time. I got to worrying maybe Fd get hurt. This new body I got's tough, but a direct hit could knock it out -- I saw it happen to others. I tried to talk to some of 'em after I got the knack of it. But all they knew was their number and the orders of the day. "Then one day I just ducked out; there was so may units in the fight I didn't figure anybody'd notice. I been here ever since-unno how long." "How many times has the Earth crossed the sky since you woke up? "Maybe six or seven." "Then you've been here for months -- and nothing's happened yet?" "Nope. I figured maybe they forgot about me." "I don't think time means the same thing to them as it does to us." "This is a funny-looking place, ain't it, Jones? The sun's funny -- and the moon, too." "We're on the moon, Joel. That planet you see in the sky is the Earth." "Gosh." "Joel. I don't know how much time we'll have -- but I have a feeling that when the current battle is settled, the Over-mind will be along to find out why we didn't work out. I think it assumes we're just a routine malfunction. They don't seem to have any emotions. They aren't out for revenge for the centurion I killed -- but if they knew we were in full control of our bodies, we'd have been blasted." "Who are they, Jones -- the Command minds and the Over-mind -- all these voices I hear in my head?" "They're the masters of the dogthings. They're fighting a war. The Devil knows what it's about... For some reason they're using our moon as a battleground -- and we're a convenient source of computer circuits." "The ones they're fighting -- they're just as bad," Joel cut in. "I got close to 'em once -- nearly got cut off. I put out a feeler to one -- wanted to see what he was like. I figured maybe if he was against the Command voice, maybe I'd change IF sides -- but it was -- it was horrible, Jones. Kind of like... well, like some of the old ladies that used to come around the Seaman's Welfare. They was so bound to do good, they d kill you if you got in their way. It's like Hell comes in two colors -- black and white." "We need information, Joel. We're as ignorant as new-born babies. For a while, I didn't even know how fast time was going past. I got that part straight when I saw the earth rise. We move fast -- we can run through a fifty-thousand item check list in a second or two. But I still don't know how big I am." I can tell you how big we are, Jones. Come on." I watched as the great battle-machine that had been Joel backed, turned, started off along the wall. I followed. At the far end of the compound, at the junction of the barrier wall with a massive squat tower, he stopped. Look there," he said. I examined the ground, noted the broken rubble, a heap of scattered objects like fragments of broken spaghetti, loose dust drifted against the coarse, unjointed wall. "See them little sticks that got a kind of glow to 'em?" Joel said. "Sure... T hen I recognized what I was looking at. "My God!" "Funny, ain't it? Them skulls don't look no bigger'n marbles; legbones like they might belong to a mouse. But they're full-sized human bones, Jones. It's us that's off. We must be, well, 'bout -- well, I can't count that high... "They look about twelve inches; my picture of myself is about twelve feet to my upper turret. I can multiply that by six; that makes us seventy-two feet high!" "Jones -- could you teach me to count them big numbers? You know, it's funny -- but seems like I missed learnin' a lot of things, back when -- when I was just a man." "You've changed, Joel. You think about things a lot more than you used to." "I know, Jones. It's like I used to be sort of half-asleep or something. I can't remember much about it -- back there. It's all kind of gray and fuzzy. There's lots of things I want to know now. Like numbers. But in those days, I never even asked." "Joel, how did you get the wound you had on your forehead?" "Yeah -- I remember. There was a sore place. It hurt, all the time. Gosh, I forgot all about them headaches! And it was kind of pushed in, like." "It was a badly depressed fracture, probably bone fragments pressing on your brain. That pressure's gone now." "It don't do me much good." I reached out, sensed two machines dozing on low alert. "I tried to control a couple of units once," I called to Joel. "It didn't work. But I've learned a few tricks since then. Maybe... " "Maybe what, Jones?" "I don't know -- but I'm going to try something and see what happens." I reached out to the dull glow of the idling mind-fiekl, formed in my mind an image of the shape of the mental voice of the dead centurion Zixz. "Combat unit! Damage report!" I thundered. "All systems functional," came the instant reply. "Situation Report!" I demanded. "Unit six of the line, standing by on low alert!" I reached for the other mind, touched it; it identified itself as unit seven of the Brigade of Ognyx. "Units six and seven! Stand by!" I roared. "Acknowledge," came the instant reply. Joel and I raced out onto the rock-shattered plain. Half a mile distant, the two immense combat units sat, guns still bearing on their target. "Units six and seven!" I transmitted as I barrelled past. "You are now under the command code 'Talisman'. Your primary function will be the protection and assistance of units eiehtv-four and one hundred. You will not report the existence of Talisman to any Command Unit. Fall in and follow me." I saw the two huge machines obediently start up, wheel into line, come up to speed. Together, our small force hurled across the stark desert under the blue light of a warm, green world I would never see aggin. "Hev. that was neat, Jones," Joel called. "Where we going now?" "There's an underground depot a few miles from here. I.et's see if we can reach it before they cut us T he enemy was a dust cloud far to the east. We, angled west, crossed a range of broken ground dotted with burnedout hulks, raced past the up-thrust fault line where the dead centurion Zixz still held his silent vigil at the cliffhead, drove for the crater wall. Monitoring the command band, I heard the clamor of orders, an exchange of queries among Command units, caught an order hurled at the guards I had captured : "Joel -- fake up six!" I said quickly. Then: "Standing by at low alert," I transmitted in the monotone of an automaton circuit. "All quiet," I transmitted listlessly. The crater walls were rising before us now; I streaked for the cleft, flipped on powerful lights as I entered the shadows of the pass. Behind me. Joel and our two recruits followed up the rise of ground, down onto the plain within the ringwall. I scanned the scene, identified the location of the access tunnel, roared across up to it and stopped. "So far so good, Joel. Wait here with six and seven. If I don't come back... good Inck." I moved forward into the black mouth of the tunnel. The units sat in ranks as I had left them, silent, ready, their circuits idling. There was no time now for caution on my part. "Combat Units!" I rapped out. "You are now under operational #Q# IF control of Command Unit Talisman! Only Talisman commands will be obeyed! Order? of the Over-mind will not be heard! Full combat alert! Prepare for action! First squad, roU out!" Obediently, ten massive fighting machines rumbled forward, wheeled left into line, advanced toward the exit ramp. I preceded them, emerged into the open, watched as they filed out and took up battle formation. "They caught on to where we were going, Jones," Joel called. "I've been listening; they sent ten units over to see what we're up to!" "I'll take this squad to the pass and hold them off, Joel! You get the rest of them out!" I heard his voice rapping out orders under the Talisman code as I set off for the pass. A s I reached the crest of the defile, the interceptor force came into view -- ten mighty machines, glittering under the light of the full Earth. At once, a thunderous command blasted at me: I reached out, found the grotesque form of an alien mind, dealt it a smashing blow. "Task force, you are now under the control of Talisman Command," I roared in imitation of the command voice. "Take up positions in echelon with Talisman force!" Nine of the battle units acknowledged, moved into the pass, leaving their dead leader behind. Under our guns, they founted the path, took up stations as ordered. Far out on the flat, the main body was in view, coming up fast. "All out, Jones," Joel's call came. We're on the way." "Some new volunteers have just rallied to the standard," I called back. "Post units at all the passes into the crater; we're going to have to defend this position." "If we run for it, we could get away clean now, Jones," Joel called. "We could head for way off yonder somewhere, and we'd be safe " "Safe -- for what?" "For anything. We could set and think, and look up at the stars and wonder at 'em, and every now and again we could loose off our guns, just for the heck of it -- " "It's too late to run for it. But we're not finished yet, Joel. Take this bunch over and swear 'em in." I extended awareness, caught a fragment of an order: I complied with a confused report of mysterious enemy machines, flights of ballistics attackers, heavy damage. The Over-mind rose to new heights of fury: "He's getting a little upset now," I called to Joel. "He doesn't know what's happening. Be on the alert for those brigades -- they're out for blood." . A flight of missiles appeared over the horizon, arcing down on us. I integrated their courses, saw diat they would overshoot. "Hold your fire, Joel!" I called. "We'll save our firepower for when it counts.' Volley followed volley, arcing high overhead -- decoys intended to draw fire at maximum range rather than to inflict hits. I felt for the imbecile brain of the waveleader -- a twitter of fear-patterns, food-lusts, mating drives, tropisms, subverted to the uses of evasion patterns and course corrections. With a touch, I readjusted their navigational orientation, saw the flight swing and drive back to dive on its originators. Below, the enemy, confused by the abrupt desertion of the vanguard, milled in confusion. Those that advanced met a hail of destruction from the guns of two hundred and ten units firing from cover. They hesitated, fell back. A final lone enemy-brained unit, scarred and burned, came relentlessly on, rocked to our bombardment, veered to one side and plunged over a precipice. I gave the cease-fire, and watched the aimless maneuvering of the moron units below -- and still they came over the horizon, pouring in in Brigade strength, their sensors seeking out targets, finding none, T saw a damaged unit go berserk, charge down on a comrade, firing, and in automatic response, a thousand guns, glad of a target, vaporized it a corruscation of ravening energies. # #T ooks like we mixed 'em up A-' pretty good, Jones," Joel commented. "We gained a little time," I replied. "They're not what you'd call flexible." "Whafs our next move? We're in a kind of a dead end here. Once they figure what's going on they'll surround the place and lob it in on us from all sides -- and we're goners." "Meanwhile, things are quiet. Now's our chance to hold a council of war." "Jones, I been looking over these units of ours -- and there's something funny about 'em. It's like they wasn't really machines, kind of." "They're not. Every machine here has a human brain in it." "Huh?" "Like you, Joel -- and me. They're all human. Just unconscious." There was a pause while Joel probed the dulled mind of the nearest slave unit, waiting, guns aimed, for the order to carry on the fight. "Yeah, Jones. I see the place. It's all blanked off, like. It's like trying to poke a hole through a steel plate with your finger. But..." "But what?" "Oh, I don't know, Jones. I just got a feeling -- if I touched it just right... Look, let me show you." I extended awareness, touched the probe that was an extension of Joel's mind-field, followed as it reached into the dim glow of the paralyzed mind, thrust among layered patterns of pseudo-light, past complex structures that towered into unguessed levels of existence, deep into the convoluted intricacy of the living brain, to touch the buried perIF onality center -- encysted, inert, a pocket of nothingness deep under a barrier of stunned not-thought. "Don't you see, Jones? It ought to be, like, say a taut cable with toe wind making it sing. Something stopped it, clamped it down so's it can't move. we got to do to set it free is giv I a little push -- and it'll start up again." "All I see is a dead spot, Joel. If you can see all that, you're way ahead of me." "Okay if I try it?" "Go ahead -- and I'll keep my relays crossed..." "Here goes... I saw the finger of pure, focussed energy reach out, touch the grayness -- and the opacity faded and was gone. "Okay so far," Joel said. "Now Like a jeweler cleaving a hundred carat rough diamond, Joel poised, then struck once, sharply. And the glow that had been the moron mind of a slave sprang up in a dazzling light;, and into the gray continuum where thought moved like a living force, words came: T he huge fighting machine parked forty feet away across the rocky ledge behind me backed suddenly, lowered its guns, traversed toem across the empty landscape, brought them to bear on me. "Watch him Jones!" Joel's voice came sharply. "He's scared; he's liable to get violent!" In the instant xnat the strange voice had burst from the slave unit, my probing contact had been thrust back by an expanding mind-field as powerful as Joel's. "We're friends!" I called quickly in the code in which commands were transmitted. "Fellow prisoners!" I thrust against the pressure of the newly awakened mind, found the automated combat-reflex circuitry, clamped down an inhibiting field -- enough to impede a fire-order, at least for a moment. the strange voice shouted, a deafening bellow in my mind. I plucked the conditioned identity-concept from the mind before me, called to it in the command code: "Unit twenty-nine of the Anyx Brigade! Listen!" It roared out its barbaric jargon, overtones of fright and horror rising like blood-stained tides in the confused mind. I tried again: "I'm a friend -- an enemy of the Command-voice. You've been a slave. I'm another slave -- #n revolt against the masters!" There was a moment of silence; then: "A fellow slave? What trickery is this?" And this time it spoke -- or bellowed -- in the familiar command code. "It's no trick," I transmitted. "You were captured -- but now you're free." "Free? Invisible one, I wear the likeness of a monstrous troll-shape! Enchantments hold me yet in bondage. Where is my blade, Hrothgar? Where are my peers and bondsmen? What fire-blasted heath is this before me?" I talked to the frightened mind, soothing it, explaining as much as I could. At last it seemed to understand -- at least enough that I could withdraw my grip on its firecontrol circuitry. "Ah, I feel a part of the spell released!" the freed mind exclaimed. "Now soon perhaps TU feel Hrothgar's pommel against my palm, and waken from this dream of Hell!" "I was holding you," I said. "I was afraid you'd fire on me before I could explain." "You laid hands on an earl of the realm!" He was roaring again. "Not hands; just a suggestion -- to keep you from doing anything hasty." "Hello, Aethelbert," Joel put in. "Sure glad to have you with us -- " # Toel," I interrupted. "Try anJ other one; wake as many as you can -- but hold onto their battle-reflexes until you get them calmed down." Then, to our new comrade: "We're surrounded. There are thousands of them down there -- see for yourself." "Yes -- never have I seen such concentration of brigades. What action is this we fight." He broke off suddenly. "A strange thing it is, unseen one, but now I sense in my memory a vast lore of great trollwars, fought with fire and magic under a black sky with a swollen moon. And I seem to see myself among them -- an ogre of the ogres!" A call came from Joel: "I got another one, Jones! I don't know what he's saying, but it's not in command code. Sure sounds excited!" "Keep it up, Joel.' While he worked, I talked to Aethelbert. He was quick to grasp the situation -- once he understood that I was only another combat unit like himself. Then he was ready to launch a one-man attack. "Well I remember the shape of the sorcerer: like a slinking dog it came, when I beached my boat on the rocky shores of Oronsay under Sgarbh Breae. My carls fell like swooning maids without the striking of a blow -- and then the werewolf was on me, and Hrothgar's honed edge glanced from its hide as a willow wand from the back of a sullen housewench. And now they have given me shape of a war-troll! Now will I take such revenge as will make Loki roar over his meadhorn!" "Jones!" Joel cut in. "Here's another one! He's talking American; all about Very lights and Huns..." I gave the new man a capsule briefing, then went on to another -- a calm, cool mind speaking strangely accented Arabic. He blamed all his troubles on an evil Djinn of the sorcerer Salomon, in league with the Infidels. I let him talk, getting it all straight in his mind -- then cued him to bring his conditioned battle-experience into his conscious awareness. He switched to Command Code without IF a break in the stream of his thoughts. "By the virtue of the One God, such a gathering of units was never seen! Praise Allah, that I should be granted such a wealth of enemies to kill before I die!" I managed to hold him from a headlong charge, then picked up a new voice, this one crying out in antique Spanish to his Compeador, Saint Diego, God, and the Bishop of Seville, interchangeably, I assured him that all was well, and went on  to the next man -- a former artilleryman whose last recollection was of a charge by French cavalry, the flash of a saber # -- then night, and lying alone among the dead, until the dogs came. "Jones, we're doing real good; that's six now. But down on the plain they're starting to move around. The Over-mind is reorganizing, and they'll be attacking right soon now. We're gonna run out of time... "Suppose our new men each start in to release others? Can you brief them -- show them how? They can work in pairs, with one freeing a man and the other holding him down until he understands what's happening." "Hey, that's a good idea! It's easy, once you know how. Let's start with Aethelbert... T ime was a term without meaning. To speak a sentence in the measured phrases of a human language required as long, subjectively, as to deliver a lengthy harangue in the compact Command Code -- and yet the latter seemed, while I spoke, to consume as much time as its more deliberate equivalent. My circuitry, designed for instantaneous action, accommodated to the mode of speech -- just as, on low alert, a waiting period that might measure weeks by terrestrial standards could pass in a brief hour of passive nonaction. While Joel and I worked, calming, reassuring, instructing, the seiging legions formed up into units on the dusty plain of white light moving. It might have been minutes -- or hours -- before the last of our two hundred and ten combat units had been freed from the paralyzing force of the Overmind. Three had raved, lapsed into inand black shadow below, arraying themselves for the assault. In the sky, the Earth hung, apparently uncoherence -- minds broken by the shock; two more had opened fire in the initial panic -- and had been instantly blasted by the return fire of a dozen units -- the first trac casualties of the campaign. Five more had resisted all efforts at contact; catatonics, permanently withdrawn from reality. And seven had gibbered in the alien symbolism of the demons -- condemned criminals, sentenced to the Brigades for the crimes of inferiority, non-conformity or lilogic. These are snuffed out, left their mighty carapaces as mindless slaves to be used as we had been used. It was ruthless -- but this was a war of no quarter, species against species. And our legions grew in strength and readiness. xxn I called for their attention. "So far we've had the advantage of surprise," I said. "We've hit and run, done the unexpected; they've milled around us like a herd of buffalo. We've managed to slice through them, pick off a few isolated units, capture a few more. But the honeymoon is about over. They're standing off out of take-over range, and they've imposed communications silence, so we don't know what they're planning." "Like I thought: we're losin'," someone commented. "Will we huddle here to be burned in our hall like Eric's men?" Aethelbert boomed. "Is this the tenth deed I'll relate to Thor in his meadhall in Asqard?" "We got to bust out of here," a Sixth Armored man said. "And fast, what I mean." "We can keep hitting and running -- and lose a few men each time," I went on. "In the end we'll be wiped out." "In the name of the one God, let us carry the fight to the legions of Shaitan!" "For the honor of the gods, I say attack!" "We'll attack -- but it will be a feint; Thomas, you'll take twentyseven units, and move out to the south. Don't close; cruise their line at extreme range, as though you were looking for a weak spot. Put two of your best probemen on scan for recruits; you may be able to pick off a unit here and there. Keep up defensive fire only; if you draw out a pursuit column, tall back on this position, and try to capture them." "Twenty-seven units say ye, sir? What of the others?" "I'm taking two men. When you reach a point close to a two-sevenoh heading from here -- turn and hit their line with everything you've got. That will be my signal to move out." "Wi' two men only? By'r lakin, they'll trounce ye like a stockfish!" "We'll come out with screens down, ports closed, and mingle with the enemy. In the confusion. I'm counting on their assuming we're loyal slaves. As soon as you see we're in their lines, turn and run for it; keep them busy. With luck, we'll get through -- " "And where would you be goin'?" an Irish voice demanded. "Their headquarters is about twelve miles west of here. I'm going to try to reach it." W ith my two companions beside me, I waited at the south end of the ravine, watching the distant dust cloud that was Thomas's force as it raced across the star-lit desert, the flickering of enemy guns lighting the scene with a winking radiance of blue and red and white. Then I swung to enter the pass, gunned up the long slope. Ben followed, trailing by a quarter mile. Far back, Aethelbert was coming up fast, the fire of the remaining enemy unit lighting his defensive screens. I reached the crest of the pass, came to a halt looking down on a vast complex of works -- tunnel IF heads, squat sheds, low circular structures of unknown function -- gray, rough textured, stark and ugly against the bleakness of the lunar landscape. And beyond the warren of buildings, a tower reached up into the glittering black of the night sky, a ragged shape like a lone spire remaining from a fallen ring wall: The Place that Must Be Defended. I looked back down the trail. From my vantage point I could see the broad sweep of the plain: the distant jumble of rock where we had enemy, strung out in a long pincers which enveloped the tiny group of winking lights that I knew was Thomas and his dwindling band; and nearer, the dust trail reaching almost to the foot of the pass, and the second trail, close behind. From halfway down the sloping trail, a once-Confederate named Ben called: "Aethelbert's in trouble; he's taken a hit, I think -- and somebody's closing on him. I better give him a leg up." 'Aethelbertl" I called. "Are you all right?" T 'here was no answer. I saw him slow as he entered the pass, turn sideways, blocking the entry, his guns pointed back toward the enemy. The oncoming unit poured fire into the now stationary target; it rocked to hit after hit. Ben, coming up beside me now, swung his guns, opened fire on the enemy unit as it came within range. "Aethelbert, we'll cover you!" I called. "Come on into the pass." "I'll tarry here, Jones," came a faint reply. "There'll be no lack of foes to tempt my thunder." "Just a few yards farther!" "Bare is the back without brother behind it," he sang out. "Now take the meadhall of the goblins by storm, and may Odin guide your sword-arm!" "I'm goin' back for him!" Ben yelled. "As you were, Ben! The target's ahead! Let's go and get it!" I launched myself down the slope without waiting to see him comply; a moment later, he passed me, racing to run interception for me. "Head for the tower," I called. The first buildings were close now -- unlovely constructions of featureless stone, puny in scale. I saw a tiny dark shape appear in a tunnel mouth, bound toward a cluster of huts -- and recognized it as one of the dog-things, looking no larger to me than a leaping rat. Its head was grotesquely muffled in a breathing mask -- apparently its only protection from the lunar vacuum. I veered, bore down on it, saw its skull-face twist toward me as my treads caught it, pulped it in an instant, flung the bristled rag that was its corpse far behind me. Ahead, Ben braked to a halt before a wide gate, swung his forward battery on it, blasted it to rubble, then roared ahead through the gap, with me close behind -- A shock wave struck me like a solid wall of steel. I felt myself go up, leap back, crash to the rocky ground, slide to rest in a shower of debris. Half dazed, I stared through the settling dust, saw the blackened hulk that had been my Confederate scout, smoke boiling from every aperture, his treads gone, gun barrels melted. I shouted his name, caught a faint reply: "Cap'n... don't move... trap... all automatic stuff... I saw 'em too late... Hellbores... set in the walls... You'll trigger 'em when you move... don't stir..." I felt his mind-field fade, wink out. I scanned the interior of the compound, saw the black mouths of the mighty guns, aimed full on me... waiting. I reached out, felt for the dim glow of cybernetic controls, found nothing. They were mechanically operated, set to blast anything that moved in the target area. The detonation that had halted me in my tracks had saved my life. Ben was dead. Behind me, Aethelbert held the pass alone; and on the plain, my comrades fought on, in ever-dwindling numbers, covering my desperation bid for victory. And I was here, caught like a fly in a web, helpless, fifty yards from my objective. T he explosion had blackened the pavement of the court, gouged a crater a yard deep, charred the blank invulnerable wdls that ringed it. My hull, too, would be blackened and pitted. I could see fragments of my blasted comrade scattered all across the yard; splashes of molten metal were bright against the drab masonry. There were openings in the walls, I noted as the last of the dust fell back, the final shreds of black smoke dissipated in the near-vacuum. They seemed no bigger than rat-holes, but I realized that they were actually about a yard wide and half again as high. As I watched, a pale snout poked from one; then the lean withers and flanks of a demon appeared, its size diminished by contrast with my immense body. The thing wore a respirator helmet like the one I had seen earlier; straps criss-crossed its back. It bounded lightly to the burned-out hulk that had been Ben, circled it, stepping daintily around chunks that still glowed red. It came to me then, disappeared as it passed under the range of my visual units. I held myself totally unmoving, carefully withdrew vitality from my external circuitry, closed myself behind an inner shield of not-thought. Alone in the absolute darkness of sensory deprivation, I waited for what might happen next. Faintly, I felt a probing touch -- ghostly fingers of alien thought that groped along my dark circuitry, seeking for indications of activity. There was an abortive shudder as an impulse was directed at my drive controls. Then the questing probe withdrew. Cautiously, I extended sensitivity to my visual complex, saw the creature as it trotted back to its hole. Again the compound was silent and empty -- except for the corpse of the great machine that had been my friend. IF m Quickly, I ran an inspection, discovered the worst: My drive mechanism was fused at vital points in the front suspension, and my forward batteries were inoperative -- warped by the terrific heat of the blast from the hellbores that had smashed Ben. I was trapped inside ten thousand terrestrial tons of inert, dead metal. M ore demons emerged from the building now, trotting from the same arched way through which the first had come. Other creatures followed -- squat, many-armed things like landwalking octopi. They went to Ben, swarmed over the hot metal, perched high up on the blackened carapace, set to work. Below on the dusty ground, the demons paced, or stood in pairs, silently watching. I considered reaching out to touch a demon mind -- and rejected the idea. I was not skilled enough to be sure of not alerting it, warning it that something still lived inside my scorched and battered hull. Instead, I selected a small horror squatting on the fused mass that had been Ben's forward turret. I reached out, found the awarenesscenter .  . Grays and blacks and whites, dimly-seen -- but with distorted pseudo-scent images sharp-etched; furtive thoughts of food, and warmth, and rest, a wanderlust and a burning drive for a formless concept that was a female... It was the brain of a cat, installed in the maintenance machine, its natural drives perverted to the uses of the aliens, its keen sense linked to electronic sensers, its superb motorennervation linked to demon-made limbs of insensitive metal. I explored the tiny brain, saw the wonderful complexity of even this simple mechanism -- vastly more sophisticated than even the most complex of cybernetic circuits. With an effort, I extended the scope of my contact, saw mistily what its eyes saw: the pitted surface of metal on which it squatted, the tiny cutting tools with which it drilled deep into the burned chromally of the ruined hull. I sensed the heat of the metal, the curve of it under me, the monomaniacal drive to do thus -- and thus -- boring the holes, setting the charge, moving on to the next... I pulled back, momentarily confused by the immediacy of the experience. The small machines, under the direction of the demons, were preparing to blast open the fused access hatch. Abruptly, I became aware of a sensation in my outer hull, checked the appropriate sensors, felt the pressure of small bodies, the hot probe of needle-tipped drills. In my preoccupation, I had failed to notice that a crew was at work on me, too. Soon -- in minutes, or an hour or two -- a shock would drive through me, as my upper access hatch was blasted away, exposing my living brain to the vacuum and the cold metal probes of the machines. Delicately, I directed movement to the cat's 'limbs. They moved smoothly in response, walked me IF across the twisted metal. I turned the sensory cluster to stare across at the openings in the wall, gaping now like great arched entries to the small-scale sensors of the tiny apparatus. Half a dozen now-huge demons paced or stood between me and the doors. None seemed to have noticed that I was no longer at work. I moved on down the side of the wrecked machine, sprang to the dust-drifted ground. A demon turned empty red eyes on me, looked past me, turned away. I moved toward the nearest archway, scuttling along at a speed which I hoped was appropriate to a maintenance unit returning to its storage bay for repairs or supplies. Another demon swung its head to watch, followed me with its eyes as I crossed the open ground. I reached the arch, hopped up the low step, sjipped into the darkness of the high-arched passage. Somewhere in the ominous tower before me -- the Place That Must Be Defended -- lay the secret of the power of the demons. My only chance of survival lay in finding it. I tore my eyes from the light and started into the dark maze. T he passage was featureless, unadorned, running straight to a heavy lock which opened at the pulse my welldrilled cat-brain emitted. In my octopoid body I scuttled forward into a tiny chamber, waited while the inner seal slid aside. A wider corridor lay before me, brightly illuminated in the infra-red range -- and crowded with hurrying demons, looking as immense as gaunt and bristled horses to my small-scale sensors. I moved ahead, ignored by the busy inmates of the building. I found a rising ramp, hurried up its wide curve, emerged on another level, like the first except that there were other creatures here -- tall, mechanical-looking things that ambled on irridescent chitinous limbs. I saw one or two demons of another species, characterized by flatter faces and enormous, protruding teeth, and pale, tawny hides. They wore more elaborate harness than the workercl ass things I had met in the past, and there was a glint of jeweled decoration on their brightwork fittings -- the first signs of frivolity I had seen among the aliens. I saw two of the humanoid aliens of the General Julius type. Both wore familiar earthly costumes -- one a pink business suit and other a stained military uniform; I judged that they were agents reporting on their operations among the natives. None of these varied, life-forms paid the slightest attention to me, but I couldn't help feeling as vulnerable as a newborn mouse in a rattler's cage. The most superficial probe from any of them would shatter my tenuous grip on the slave-machine's ego center. And an instant later, my own untenanted brain would be shattered -- or enslaved again. Moving past a congregation of the insect-things before a wide, square-cut door, I spied a narrow stair leading up from a short passage to the right. I turned in, went along to it, looked up its dark well. What I was looking for, I didn't know -- but instinct seemed to urge me upward. I hopped up with my ten legs, began the climb. I was in a wide chamber with a high ceiling supported by columns, among which massive apparatus was ranked in endless rows. Great red-eyed demons prowled the aisles of the sides of stilt-legged insectthings -- whether as guds or servants, I couldn't tell. A cacophony of humming, buzzing, raucous squealing, deep-toned roaring, filled the thin air, as the batteries of giant machines churned out their unimaginable products. I scurried, along, darting around the careless footfalls of the giant creatures, made for a door across the room, on either side of which two immense demons squatted on their haunches like vast watchdogs. I thought of the soldier in the fairy-tale, who had stolen the treasure guarded by a dog with eyes as big as saucers. These eyes were smaller, and of a balefid red, but they were as watchful as look-outs for a burglar gang. They were guarding something. That was reason enough for me to want to pass the door. I scurried past them, saw other small machines like myself hurrying about their tasks, numbly skipping aside when threatened by a heavy foot. I had chosen my disguise well. The tiny cat-brained devices appeared to have free run of the tower. There was a quiet comer where a cross-aisle dead-ended. I settled myself in it, blanked off sensory input, reached out to the most superficial level of mental activity, sensed the darting actionreaction impulses of the other cat-brains all around me. I selected one dim center, felt gingerly through its simple drives, selected one, stimulated it, planted a concept. Quickly I jumped to a second brain, keyed its elemental impulses, then went on to a fourth, and a fifth... I withdrew and focused my sensors. Across the floor, I saw a small machine darting erratically about, attracting cold stares from the busy creatures around it. A second machine scuttled into view from between giant apparati, paused a moment, jittering on thin legs, then darted to the first, leaped at it. With a metallic clatter, the two rolled across the floor and struck the lean shank of a demon which bounded aside, whirled, struck out. A third cat-brained machine dashed to join the fray. Two more appeared at the same moment, saw each other, came together with a crash -- five enraged Toms, each sure he was attacking a rival for the imagined female the image of whose presence I had evoked. A dirty trick, but effective. The two guardian demons bounded from their posts, sprang at the combatants, cuffed them apart -- but only for an instant. Nimbly, the fighting cats danced aside from the rush of the dog-things, darted back to re-engage. I moved from my corner, scurried along the baseboard IF to the guarded door, fired a triggering pulse at its mechanism. It stood firm. I extended a sensing probe -- a form of supersonic sonar, I realized as I felt over the shapes of the locking circuitry. I perceived the required form for the unlocking signal, transmitted it. The moronic apparatus responded, withdrew the magnetic locking field, I nudged the door, felt it swinc open, slipped past it, pushed it shut behind me. A narrow stair well lead up toward light. I started up, feeling my thin limbs tiring now. My power-pack needed recharging; I felt a powerful reflexive urge to descend to a dimly conceived place where a niche waited, in which I could snuggle against comforting contacts and receive a pleasure-flow of renewed vitality... I overrode the conditioned urge and clambered up the high-looming steps. They were scaled to the long legs of the demons, almost too high for my limited agility. There was no alarm from below. The demonguardians had failed to notice the penetration of their sanctum sanctorum. I was dragging myself as I topped the last step. I squatted with trembling limbs outsprawled, looking into a bright, round room, walled with smooth, nacreous material that resembled mother of pearl pierced with glazed openings beyond which the black lunar sky pressed close. At the center of the chamber, a shallow bowl rested on a short column, like a truncated bird-bath of polished metal. After a moment's rest, I moved into the room. I was aware of a curious humming, a sense of vast power idling at the edge of perceptibility. The floor was smooth under me, extending to a curving joint with the walls, which rose, darkening, to form a shadowed dome many yards overhead. The light was diffuse, soft, sourceless. I circled the gleaming pedestal, searching for some indication of the meaning or utility of this strange place, so unlike the stark and functional ugliness of the levels below. There was nothing. No indication of life, no sign of controls or instrumentation. Perhaps, after all, the Place That Must Be Defended was no more than a ceremonial temple dedicated to whatever strange deities might command the devotion of the monsters that prowled the levels beow... There was a sound -- a dry clicking, like a dead twig tapping a window. I crouched near the pedestal, stared around me, saw nothing. The walls of the empty room gleamed softly, silntly. The sound came again -- and a dry squeaking, as of leather sliding against unoiled metal. A diffuse shadow, faint, formless, glided down the walls. I turned my sensors up ward -- and saw it. ""t hung in the gloom of the dome, a bulging, grayish body in a cluster of tentacular members like giant angleworms, clinging to a bright filament depending from the peak of the onion-shaped dome. As I watched, it dropped down another foot, its glistening reticulated arms moving with a hideous, fluid grace. A cluster of stemmed sense organs poked from the upper side of the body -- crab-eyes on a torso like a bag of oil. I recognized the shape of the creature. It was the one on which my borrowed mechanical form was modelled. The thing saw me then -- I was sure of it. It paused in its descent, tilted its eyes toward me. I didn't move. Then the worm-arms twitched, flowed. It dropped lower, unreeling the cable as it came. It was five yards above the parabolic bowl, then four, then three. There was a feeling of haste in its movements now, something frantic in its scrambling descent. Whatever the thing was. its objective was clear: to reach the polished bowl below it -- quickly. My move was obvious: to prevent it. I sprang to the pedestal, reared up, my forelimbs catching at the edge of the bowl. I scrabbled with other legs at the smooth base, found purchase for another pair of limbs. I was clear of the floor now, rising up to the edge -- The thing above me emitted a mewing cry, dropped abruptly another yard, then released its support and launched itself at me. The flailing tentacles caught at me, wrapped me in an embrace like a nest of constrictors. I lost my hold, fell back with a stunning crash, the alien thing still entoiling me. It broke away, reached for the bowl, swung itself up; I sprang after it, seized a trailing limb with three of mine, hauled back. It turned like a striking snake, struck out at me -- blows that sent me over on my back, skidding away, until I was brought up short by the grip I had retained on one outflung member. I righted myself with a bound, crouched under a new rain of blows, lashed out in return, saw thick mustard-colored fluid ooze from a wound on the heavy body. The thing went mad. It lashed its many legs in wild, unaimed blows, leaping against the restraint of my grip. I caught another flailing arm, the cruel metal of my pincers biting into the yielding muscle. Abruptly it changed its tactics. Its multiple arms reached out to me, seized me, hauled me close. Then, with a surge, it raised me, dashed me down against the rock-hard floor. Dazed, I felt my grip go slack, the sinuous members of the alien withdraw. I reached after it felt a last member slither from my weakened grasp. I could see again. The thing was at the pedestal, swarming up, teetering on the edge of the bowl. I gathered my strength, lunged after it, drove my outstretched arm up at the unprotected underbody, felt it strike, pierce deep... The thing wailed, a horrifying cry. For a moment it wrapped its futile arms around my stabbing metal one; then it went limp, fell back, struck and lay, a slack heap of flabby, colorless flesh, in a spatter of viscious ochre. IF I rested for a moment, feeling the on-off-on flashes of failing senses. I had spent the last of my waning energy in the battle with the deciped. It was hard to hold my grip on the fading consciousness of the cat-brain; almost, I could feel my awareness slipping away, back to the doomed hulk in the courtyard below, the guns still erained upon my inert body. I wondered how close the drillers were now to the vulnerable brain -- and how Aethelbert fared at the pass, how many of my comrades still lived on the shattered battlefi'.'ld beyond. There was one more effort required of me before I relapsed back into the darkness that seemed to beckon all around. The thing I had killed had attacked me to keep me from reaching the hollow of the metal bowl-shape, and had striven frantically to attain it itself. I had to discover what it had guarded there. I dragged myself to the base of the pedestal, rose up, tottering, groped for the edge above. It was too far. I sank back quivering, black lights dancing in my dimming sensory field. Beside me lay the dead alien. I groped to it, crawled up on the slumped curve of its flaccid body, tried again. Now my fore-limbs reached the edge of the bowl, gripped; I pushed myself up, brought other limbs into play. Now I swung, suspended. With a supreme effort, I hauled myself up, oped, found a hold across the bowl -- and tipped myself into the polished hollow. F rom a source as bottomless as space itself, power flowed, sweeping through me with an ectasy that transcended all pleasure, burning away the dead husks of fatigue, hopelessness, pain. I felt my mind come alive, as a thousand new senses illuuminated the plane of space-time in which I hung; I sensed the subtle organizational patterns of the molecular aggregations that swirled over me, the play of oscillations all across the spectrum of electromagnetic radiation, the infinity of intermeshing pressures, flows, transitions that were reality. The scope of my awareness spread out to sense the structured honeycomb of the tower walls, the scurrying centers of energy that were living minds nested in flesh and metal, drove outward to embrace the surrounding court, noting the bulk of cold metal that was the ruined machine in which my unconscious brain lay buried -- and outward still, sweeping across the curve of the world, detecting the patterned network of glowing points scattered across the waste of lifelessness. Now each dim radiance took on form and dimension, swelling until separately, yet together, their inner structures lay exposed. I saw the familar forms of human minds, each locked in a colorless prison of paralysis -- and the alien shapes of demon-minds, webs of weird thoughtforms born of an unknowable conception of reality. And here and there, in clusters, were other minds, beacons of flashing vitality -- the remnant of my fighting brigades? I singled out one, called to it: His answer was a flare of confusion, question; then: They' re poundin' us, Jones. Where are you? Can you send us any help?" "Tom gave me a turn, Jones. For a minute I thought you was the Over-mind, you came through so strong" His voice was weak, fading. "# guess ifll all be over pretty soon, Jones. I'm glad we tried, though. Sorry it turned out like this... Ithe array of enslaved human minds. I thought back to the frantic hour I had spent when Joel and I had freed the trapped minds of Aethelbert and Doubtsby and Bermuez. If I could reach them all now, in one great sweep ,... I brought the multitude of dully glowing centers into sharp focus, fixed in my mind the concept of the pattern of their natural reasonance -- and sent out a pulse. All across the dark face of the dead world faint points of illumination quickened, flared up, blazed bright. At once, I fired an orientation-concept -- a single complex symbol which placed in each dazed and newly emancipated brain the awareness of the status quo, the need for instant attack on demonbrained enemies. I switched my plane of reference back to Joel. I caught Joel's excited answer, then switched to alert the others. The pattern of the great battle changed. Now isolated demon-brained machines fought furiously against overwhelming odds, winked out one by one. Far away, in distant depots, on earth-lit deserts a thousand miles from the tower of the Over-mind, awakened slave brigades blasted astronished centurions, sallied forth to seek out and destroy the hated former masters. From a dozen hidden fortresses, beleagered demons fitted out vast siege units, sent them forth to mow broad swatches through the attacking battle units before they fell to massive bombardments. In a lull, I searched through the building below me, found and pinched out the frantic demons hiding there. Their numbers dwindles, shrank from thousands to a dozen, six, two, a single last survivor -- then none. The moon was ours. J oel's great bulk, pitted with new scars bright against the old, loomed up beside me in the compound, bright under the glow of a full Earth. "All the fellows are here now, Jones -- we lost seventy-one, the major says. A couple dozen more are disabled, like you and Aethelbert, but still live. The maintenance machines have gone to work on IF 'em. We got plenty of spares, anyway. We'll have you rolling again in no time." "Good work, Joel." I widened my contact to take in all of the hundred and eight intact survivors of the original group of freed slaves. Every one of you will have his hands full, rounding up the new men and organizing them. We have no way of knowing how soon our late enemies' home base will start inquiring after them. And when they do, we want to be ready." "What about going home, chief?" a man who had taken a bullet in the knee at the Hurtgen Forest called out. "How we going to get back?" "You off your onion, mate?" a one-time British sailor growled. "What kind o' show you think we'd make waltzing into Picadilly in these get-ups!" "We got to go back, to kill off the rest of these devils, haven't we?" "Mum, my masters," Thomas interrupted. "Hear out our captain." "Two days ago I used the enemy's equipment to call Earth," I told them. "I managed a link-up to the public visiscreen system, and got through to the Central Coordinating Monitor of an organization called the Ultimax Group. I gave them the full picture. They knew what to do. The enemy is outnumbered a thousand troops wearing special protective helmets and armed with recoilless rifles can handle them." "Yeah, but what about us?" the soldier burst out. "What are we going to do --  -- stay on this Godforsaken place forever? Hell, there's transports at the depots; let's use 'emi I got a wife and kids back there!" "Are you daft, fellow?" a dragoon of Charles the Second inquired. "Your chicks are long since dust, and their dam with them -- as are mine, God pity 'em." "My old woman's alive and cursing yet, no doubt," a Dutch UN platoon leader said. "But she wouldn't know me now -- aijd keeping me in reaction mass'd play hell with her household budget. No, I can't see going back..." "Maybe -- they could get us human bodies again, some way... "Human body, indeed!" the dragoon cut him off. "Could a fighting man hope for a better corpse than this, that knows naught of toothache, the ague nor the French disease?" Another voice cut into the talk -- the voice of Ramon Descortes of the Ultimax Group, listening in from Earth on the . circuit I held open. "General Bravais," he said excitedly -- and I channeled his transmission through my circuitry, broadcasting it to every man within range. "I've been following your talk. Although I find it unbelievable, I'm faced with the incontrovertible evidence. Our instruments indicate that your transmissions are undoubtedily coming from Luna -- how and why you will explain in due course, I hope. You've told me that you -- and the others -- have been surgically transplanted to artificial environments. Now you wish to be restored. Naturally! Let me urge you to return -- and wc will have for each of you a new body of superb design -- not stricdy huto say the leastP I had to call for order to quell the uproar. "Some kind of android?" I asked. "We have on hand a captive -- an alien operative of the humanoid type. We will capture more -- alive. They will be anestheized and placed in deep freeze, awaiting your return. According to the present estimate, there are some ten thousand of them working here on Earth. Sufficient for your needs, I believe " "Say, how's the fight going there?" someone called. "Well. The first Special Units have gone into action at Chicago, Paris and Tamboula, with complete success. Governments are falling like autumn leaves, wellknown figures are suiciding in droves, and mad dogs are reported everywhere. It is only a matter of hours now." "Then there's nothing to stand in the way!" "Broadway, here I come!" "Paris -- without a king? Why  "An end to war? As well and end to living!" "What about you, General?" someone call, and others joined in. "I'll order the transports made ready immediately," I said. "Every man that wants to go back can leave in a matter of hours." "Jones -- I mean. General -- " loel started. "Jones will . do; I won't need the old name any more." "You're not going back?" "We fought a battle here," I said. "And we won. But the war goes on. On a hundred worlds; a thousand -- we don't know how many. The demons rule space -- but Man is on his way now. He'll be jumping off Earth, reaching out to those worlds. And when he reaches them -- she'll find the armored brigades of the enemy waiting for him. Nothing can stand against them -- except us. We've proven that we can outfight twice our number in slave machines. And we can free the minds that control those machines, turn them against the enemy. The farther we go, the bigger our force will be. Some day, in the far future, we'll push them off the edge of the Galaxy. Until then, the war goes on. I can't go home again -- but I can fight for home, wherever I find the enemy." "General Bravais," a new voice cut in. "Surely you can't mean that? Why, your name will be on every tongue on Earth! You're the hero of the century. Of any century! You'll be awarded every decoration -- " "A battle-scarred five-thousandton Battle Unit would be ill at ease in a procession down Pennsylvania Avenue," I said. "For better or worse, my chromalloy body and I are joined irretrievably. I couldn't sit on a veranda and sip a whiskey sour, knowing what was waiting -- out there. So I'm going to meet it, instead. How 'many are going with me?" IF And the answer was a mighty roar in many tongues, from many ages -- the voice of Man, that would soon be heard among the stars. T he star-ship Destoire descended on a pale column of blue light, came to rest on the edge of a shallow sea edged with flower-like trees set in a carpet of russet grass. Her captan and crew emerged, walked to the top of a low hill, surveyed the countryside. "Beautiful," the navigator said. "And like all the others -- deserted," "You romanticize," the second officer scoffed. "Uninhabited, perhaps. But the term 'deserted' implies former habitation; this world is virgin. The captain nudged him. "Then what's that?" he pointed. A grassy promontory thrust up from the level plain a mile distant; beyond it, a second mound rose, lonely in the sweep of prairie. "An outcropping of rock, I suppose..." The captain exchanged a look with the navigator. "Even though this is your first trip out of the Home System surely you've heard Ae stories of the Pathfinders -- " "Folklore," the second officer said. "A pretty fairytale." "But the proofs -- " "Can be manufactured by anyone who has a taste for the fanciful. Come now, we're grown men. We needn't give lip service to legends of evil demons and beneficient trolls who fight them in our behalf!" "Come along," the captain said. He started down the long slope toward the distant hillock. I t loomed up sixty feet above the level plain, a craggy shape of torn and pitted metal, its wounds half concealed under a shroud of vines. Wind-blown soil had lodged in crannies and seeds had sprouted there, and now the wind stirred the grass-blades and the stemmed wildflowers that softened the harsh angles of the ancient machine. Corroded stumps that had once been gun barrels thrust out from among whispering leaves, a hint of defiance still implicit in their carriage. The navigator pulled away a cable of vine, exposed a patch of still-bright surface. "That was a brigade insignia," he said. "I've seen pictures..." "Look here," the captain said. He had cleared the covering of leaves from a plate of polished chromalloy, with deeply-incised lettering clearly visible against the imperishable metal. He leaned close, pursing his lips over the inscription. Then he read aloud: R. L P. end -- .w;The Place Where Readers And Editor tAeei.,, Dear Editor: Three cheers for Jim Maugham! Three kicks to J.R. Parkes. Alright. Here's a hot discussion, a sweeping concept, and a unique philosophy. It's stretching the point a little !o call this a philosophy but it fills bill on the other two counts. We no .v have two so-called sf television programs on the national networks. I he plots are of a kindergarten t)e, technical matters are sometimes faked out, and good old fashioned space opera is not the primary fare. Outer Limits has done a better job than Twilight Zone, Their alien getups are marvelous and some of the stories are masterpieces, even if the plots are ultra-simple. The main fault of these shows is that they're sf watered down for the people who don't like sf. In fact, the trials that producers, writers and directors go through to please the twelve year old national intelligence borders on the ridiculous, as they cut and hack and slash almost all the scripts that come to them. If these programs were upgraded to the point where they would be a little more pleasing to people who enjoy sf it would not only heighten the national opinion of sf as a literary form but it would bring more to our ranks. There are many people around who think of Flash Gordon when sf is mentioned, simply because they haven't been exposed to anything else. I want to see a science-fiction program aimed at its fans and not garbage truck drivers. I want to see aliens as allies of Terrans. I want to see stories like Green World, The Ballad of Lost OMell or the Retief stories brought to the TV screen. We can do away with childish attempts to produce simple horror. There are other emotions that sf could convey on TV. They could also do away with the ultra-sonic music which only detracts from the creation as a whole and actually alienates you from it. It can be done, too, with letters like this one going from every science fiction fan to the networks. The volume of mail would be a torrent and enough to swing them around our way. I appeal. If you think of yourself as a science fiction fan, blow a nickel on a letter. A nickel is a small price to pay for TV science fiction drama of the type that we yearn for. -- John D. Cochran, # Baker Street, Fremont, Ohio.    Dear Editor: I would like to ask a favor of you or your readers. If anyone knows of a club or discussion group in Tacoma, Washington, which meets to discuss science fiction, E.S.P., or similar subjects, will he please write to Hue and Cry or to my address below? A group outside of Tacoma will not do any good because I am severely crippled and transportation is difficult. Thank you for any help that can be given. -- Janet G. Fox, # North Union, Tacoma #, Washington. #    Dear Editor: Be it known right at the inception that the document to follow consists entirely of personal opinions and therefore is of no practical value whatsoever. You may stop reading now if you wish. Hey, wait a minute! Come back! It was only a joke! A joke!... Please? The September '# issue of If will mark the beginning of my third year with your 'zine (yes. I'm one of the old readers) and I'd like to say right now that the present product is a far cry from those rather shabby items of '#. As if you didn't know. If is now one of the best printed SF publications around. It's a pity, though, that you use the color tinting only in the story titles and not in the actual illustrations thehiselves as you did in the January of '#. Those Schelling illustrations for The Five Hells of Orion were beautiful. Speaking of illustrations, the covers are good, too; the March, July and August wrapping in particular. Especially the August, even if k didn't show anything that happened in the story (must have been one of those "fascinating missions"). But the pictures don't keep the readers as buyers. (Very astute observation, don't you think?) (Well, that's your prerogative.) And so we shall blithely trip onward to the next subject, to wit, the filler material between illos. Actually, I don't have that much to say (although it won't stop me) because most of your stories this The tannest complete short novel of space war yon'll ever read! by Harry Harrison by Lester del Rey by Wyman Guin And many more! calendar year have met with my approval ("Bless Klonos!" breathes the editor thankfully). However. Although I have been reading SF for only six years, I like to consider myself a knowledgeable fan. I even own a few copies of magazines dating from the Middle Ages (i. e., #). But in all my readings I had never come across anything by the old master E. E. Smith. Therefore I looked forward to your May issue with some curiosity, even anticipation. Wish I could say the same now. The Imperial Stars, sir, was bad. The progres and denouement of the tale yvas rather simple (I don't mean uncomplicated) and the writing itself was, well, clumsy. As a matter of fact, though I hate to say it, the writing reminded me of my own story-writing style (you rejected one of my outpourings last year; remember?). In short, it leaves something to be desired. But all your other readers will probably love it. One more cavil and then we'll go on to happier subjects. I find that the blurbs you use in your three magazines become very annoying, Philip Jose Farmer's greatest story! Complete in the January by Theodore Ti. Thomas by B. S. Richardson And many morel not to mention tedious, when read en masse. One more thing and then I'll go bother some other editor. Mr. Pohl, sir, to settle a bone of contention between my left and right heads (this is the middle head speaking), would you tell us if you have ever employed the name Charles Satterfield as a pseudonym? -- Peter Riley, #I Crescent Street, New London, Connecticut #. Matter of fact, yes. -- The Editor. #:   Dear Editor: I never before read any sciencefiction magazines because from what I could see most of them were nothing but bunk. However, while I was glancing over a magazine stand, I noticed the name Robert A. Heinlein. Then I read the inside page and from what I saw, I knew I'd buy every issue of If for at least the next year. The serials you plan look great! The other stories in the July issue were good too, and I got a special kick out of Bixby's Old Testament. No hue or cry, just praise for the one sf magazine with class. -- Michael J. Hunter, Cleveland, Ohio. Thanks for your letter, and we'l! see you next month. At least we hope we will -- and we're sure next month's If will be a good one. Jack Vance who won the Hugo for The Drapon Masters, which appeared in Galaxy, now comes to If with might win him another! And in the same issue a new Retief story by Keith Laumer -- a novelette by Wilson Tucker -- oh, yes, a good issue! -- The Editor. IF won't run off with your books if you put inside the front cover of each book... a gummed bookplate with your name printed on it! # for #; #, #; #, # with owner's name imprinted All Postpaid. Add state sales tax, if any. r. Your Name Here No. CX-#by Lynd Ward No. CF-# by Emsh No. CF-# by Emsh The umpteenth corollary of Finagle's General Law of Dynamic Negatives says: "No books are ever lost by loaning except ones you particularly want to keep." No. CM-# by Cullen Rapp The designs shown above are the only ones we offer! its vividly real telepathic societv, detailed so ingeniously and dramadcallv that, finisUng the book, you'll find it hard to believe that society doesn't exist -- yet ! regular price, plus # for postage and handling. Supplies are limited ! Send your order in immediately! (Use Coupon or Separate Sheet) Please #I Hudson St. rush me New York  copies of #, The Original Edition -- Complete I Not A Low Cost Reprint -- Yet Yours For Only #I Plus Postage #i I Enclose...State. JANUARY #  #c Beginning This Issue A Great New Science-Fiction Novel its vividly real telepathic society detailed so ingeniously and dramatically that, finisUng the book, you'll find it hard to believe that society doesn't exist -- yet ! regular price, plus # for postage and handling. Supplies are limited ! Send your order in immediately! (Use Coupon or Separate Sheet) Please #I Hudson St. rush me New York  copies of #, Name Address City State I Enclose Th Original Edition -- Complete I Not A Low Cost Reprint -- Yet Yours for Only #I Plus Postage #Si H# Frederik Pohl, Editor Sol Cohen, Publisher Diane Sullivan, Associate Editor Mavis Fisher, Subs. Mgr. IF published monthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, Robert M. Guinn, President, Vol. #, No. #, Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York #, New York. #c per copy. Subscriptions # issues # in the United States, Canada, Mexico, South America and Central America and U.S. possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All rights Including translations reserved. All material submitted must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelope. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories are fiction, and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in the U. S. A. by the Guinn Company, New York #, N. Y. IF  EditoricA Worlds of When... A s professional forward-lookers A we science-fiction writers sometimes lose sight of the fact that others are in the business as well. A group specializing in "when-ness" are the computer people of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a first-rate book summarizing their opinions about what tomorrow will look like is Computers Press), which Martin Greenberger assembled out of transcripts of a lecture and discussion series held at The contributors to the lecture series include Vannevar Bush, Marvin L. Minsky (perhaps best known to the lay public as the inventor of the Minsky i! n, a computer program which displays what are essentiaUy complete universes on a cathode tube), John R. Pierce, C. P. Snow, the late Norbert Wiener and any number of other articulate and inform men and women. We don't propose to review the book here; we only want to tell you that it is a rewarding reading experience. Everybody knows about the job -- doing capacities of the computer, how it measures out the proportions of meats that go into bologna, makes out payrolls, runs oil refineries, etc. But did you ever think of computer programming as an art form? More than # words of programming are written a year; the Library of Congress has recently amended its rules to permit copyrighting a program; and it seems at least a possibility that Composing a program for a computer to operate may very shortly attain the same cultural and philosophical standing as composing a symphony. Indeed, "possibility", is too thin and remote a word. A number of the book's contributors speak of the esthetic enjoyment of preparing "software" (i.e., the programs, etc. -- as distinguished from the "hardware" of the machines themselves) for computers. The implications for a wordworker like the undersigned, who has been cheerfully viewing the cybernation revolution as one thfU meant serious dislocations for stee workers and subway motor men -- but surely not for himself! -- are fascinating, and a little frightening. One can imagine some future If is the form of binary codes, proceeding through some latter-day #s input into a quantified readout like the Minskytron... But not today, at any rate. Today there's , and as John Pierce says in one of his remarks in this book, speculation "is the only way we have of giving variety to the future. When the future comes there is going to be just one future, but here in anticipation we can enjoy a lot of different futures." And we did. We enjoyed the whole be generally told -- things you ought to know. Great truths are dangerous to tome -- but factors for personal power and accomplishment in the hands of diose who understand them. Behind die tales of the miracles and mysteries of the ancients, lie centuries of their secret probing into nature's laws -- fheir amazing discoveries of the hich den processes of man's mind, and the usastery of life's problems. Once shrouded in mystery to avoid their destruction by mass fear and ignorance, these fiicts remain a useful heritage for the thousands of men and women who privately use them in their homes toaay. The Rosicrucians (not a religious organizadou) an ie-old brotherhood of learning, have preserved this secref wisdom in their archives for centuries. They now invite you to share the po etical helpfulness of their teachings, write today for a firee copy of me book, The Mastery of Life. Within its pages may lie a new life of opportunity for you. Address: Scribe  I Scribe N.X.Qc I San Jose, California I Please send me the jhee book, Tb Mastery I of Ufe, which explidns how I may learn to I use my faculties and powers of mind.  j Ttfamg j j Addrea  l i...A First of Three Parts This was the day when the sun went out -- and mankind shook ot the name of the Starchildl I I t was the day, the hour and the moment of Earth's vernal equinox... and the near stars blinked. A dozen of them flickered at once. Blazing Sirius and its dense dwarf sister. The bright ye#o# twins of Alpha Centauri. Faint red Proxima... the distant sparks of Eta Eridani and # Ophiuchi A... , the bright Sun itself. The vast cosmic engines declared a vacation in their processes: th fusion of smaller atoms into larg the flow of surplus mass into energy, the filtration of that energy through layered seas of restless gas, the radiation of their atomic power into space. By the shores of Earth's oceans, within the crater walls of Luna, on the sands of Mars and the ringed satellites of Saturn, out past the Spacewall to the reefs, the great and shook and knew fear. The whisper spread out into the galaxy, propagated at the speed of light; The Starchildr Tliat was the way it began. The flickering of the neighbor stars lasted only a moment, and it was seen first on the reefs nearest each star. Then slow Pluto caught the twinkle of # Ophiuchi A while Neptune, lumbering in its dark orbit on tile far side of Sol, was the first to catch the dimming of whitehot Sirius. On Earth, where the fat old Planner sat chuckling on his golden chair, every momentary pulse of darkness arrived at once. His chuckles stopped. His pouchy face darkened. As his astronomers reported in, he exploded in wrath. His first reports came from a hardened station in the zone of twilight on the planet Mercury, where sliding concrete doors uncovered a pit beneath a saw-toothed crater rim. A silvered dome pushed out of the pit, out of the ragged shadow, into the white blaze of the near sun. The barrels of a dozen optical and radio telescopes, pyrometers, telescanners and cameras thrust out at the great orb, under the blazoned slogan that the dome displayed to the universe in letteri of cast bronze: And inside the insulated, refrigerated observatory, three astronomers watched a thousand boards and gauges and dials. They wen waiting. For they had been warned. T he senior office on duty lifted his eyes from a chrononaeter dial and growled: "Five minutes!" The other two men squinted at their instruments in silence. The grizzled Technicaptain peered at them through the pale lighting of screen that dominated the glitter of instruments. On it swam the visual image of the sun, golden and engorged, reaching out with fat, slow tendrils of superheated gas as it lay above the rock-fanged horizon of the planet Mercury. "Yeah," he grumbled, half to himself. "Were ready." The junior member of the team was a lean young Technicadet, an ambitious young man, already enbittered by the harsh facts of survival and promotion in the Technicorps. He dared a comment: "Ready for nothing, if you ask me. This is idiot business!" The senior officer rolled a yellowed eye toward Mm, but said nothing. ' "So?" murmured the third man. He was a plump little Techtenant who had found a satisfying philosophy in his recent promotion. "The F Machine's business is idiotic, then?" "Now, looki I didn't mean -- " "No. But you didn't think, either. The Machine discerns the greater plan; we only execute the parts. If the Machine attaches importance to this fanciful creature, the Starchild, then we may not question its motives." The Tcchnicadet gestured at the huge solar globe angrily and cried: "Look! What could put that out?" The Techtenant shrugged, and the senior officer only said: "Four minutes." The cadet's military courtesy was worn thin under the abrasion of their long, tense vigil. He scowled at his telemetering pyrometers and grumbled: "Not a flicker! We've been here three miserable weeks, and we haven't seen a thing." The Technicaptain rumbled: "We'll stay here three years if the Machine orders it. The Machine is above injustice or error. The Machine was built to rule the Plan, and it is guarded against human blunders." "Oh, yes, sir. But twve seen nothing at ah," cried the Technicadet. "No larchild. No major sunspots -- or whatever it is we are supposed to expect." "Practice patience," advised the fat captain. "Or you may find yourself serving the Plan more personally. There is always a need for spare parts in the Body Bank! Three minutes." T he Technicadet subside ? grudgingly apologetic. aI three men sat strapped in their observation chairs, watching the great golden image of the sun. Wreathed in its red coronal streamers, pocked in its middle latitudes with a trail of small black spots, it hung over the black horizon like a god's eye. The instruments around them clicked and murmured. "I remember," the Techtenant said at last, as though to himself, "when that sun was only another star in the sky. No brighter even than great Vega." The Technicadet cried eagerly: "You were out in the Reefs?" "Two minutes," growled the captain, but his eyes were on the young Techtenant. He nodded. "Looking for my sister's -- boy friend? Fiancee? Looking for Boysie Gann. Because he was looking for the Starchild. And we didn't find either of them." The cadet said simply, "I've never seen the Reefs." "A beautiful thing," said the Techtenant. "There are spiked forests of silicon plants, shining with their own light. Like jewels, and sharp enough to shred your spacesuit. There's a growth that makes great brain-shaped masses of pure silver. There are thick stalks of platinum and gold, and there are things like flowers that are diamonds." The cadet's breathing was suddenly loud. The grizzled old ca tain turned to look at him, all his recent scorn now frozen into longing -- and a sort of fear. He snapped: "Pay attention to your work man! The Reefs are dangerous business!" "Yes, sir," the Tech tenant agreed earnestly. "I saw a great beast like a nightmare, shaped like a scorpion, huge as a horse -- " "No, you f#ol! Dangerous to the Plan of Man. There is something there that nearly destroyed us once. If the Starchild has his way -- " He stopped himself and only said: "One minute." The Techtenant reddened. "Fm sorry, sir. I certainly did not intend to seem unplanned. I don't mean to suggest that those savage nomads beyond the Spacewall are worth considering, even if they do believe the Starchild to be more than human." "Tend your instruments!" The captain set the example, resolutely taking his eyes from the men and the screen, clamping them on the bank of gauges and dials before him. A vagrant thought stirred his mind of the blonde Togetherness girl who had first whispered the name of the Starchild to him. What had become of her? The Body Bank? -- But there was no time for that. It was only seconds now. In spite of all the insulation and the cold air sighing from the vents, the dome was suddenly stifling. The captain feH a tickle of perspiration running down his sides. "Twenty seconds!" The captain stood with his eyes frozen on the black chronometer needle that raced to meet the red, still one he had set. When they touched it would be the vernal equinox on Earth. And the Starchild's threat would be proved an empty bluff -- Or would not. Suddenly the whisper of the instruments changed. A camera shutter began clicking gently. "Ten seconds!" The shielded floor lamps shut themselves off. Only the instrument lights rivaled the phosphor glow from the image of the great yellow sun in the screen. "Five seconds!.... Four!... Three!..." -- twenty reels of tape began to spin shrilly in the darkness; the breathing of the men was like sobs -- "Two!... One!... "Zero.'" The captain gulped and rubbed his eyes. There was a dimming. Then the filters went down and then there was a burst of flame -- then darkness. The lights were gone. All of them. The sun's image had winked out. He heard a gasp from one of the other men, then a shout: "The Starchild! He's done it!" And the other man sobbed: "We're blind!" T hat, too, was how it began. But there was more. Like a ripple from a pebble dropped into a still pond, a wave of darkness spread out from the sun. Three minutes after the instant of the vernal equinox it reached that clucking camera in the dome on Mercury, unseen by those sightless eyes. In not quite three more minutes, it struck the men watching from IF the orbital stations above the eternal hot, dank clouds of Venus. A falling shadow of fear, it darkened tiieir screens, whitened their faces, silenced their talk. But their instrument lights remained visible. They had not been blinded by that last great burst of light from the sun. Eight minutes from the sun, the wave of blackness washed over Earth. All across the sunward face of the planet a crushing night came down. Bewildered, men paused and fumbled through the endless seconds before the city lights came on. Terror electrified those who bad heard the whisper of the Starchild's threat. On the dark side of Earth and on Luna, astronomers blenched as their near, familiar stars flickered. Some had heard whispers of the Starchild, too, and of a Writ of Liberation. Others merely knew that the images in their great spaceborne mirrors, or in the scopes that peered up from Earth's highest mountains, suddenly were missing familiar points of light. They came back -- But the sun did not Not then. Not for half an hour and more, and while it was gone there was panic. To the Planner on bis great golden chair the news cane and quenched his chuckling good humor, His huge soft face turned pale with fear. To a man named Boysie Gann, locked in the dungeons of the Machine, no word came -- but he knew. For he heard a guard whisper to another, The Starchild r To a girl with haunted dark eyes. telling whispering sonic beads before a console of the Machine, the word came in a language that Man had not invented, and few men could understand. Her name was Delta Four, and she did not fear. She did not care at all... And that was how it began for them, and the wave of darkness raced on into infinite space. Twelve minutes from the sun it swept Mars, halting the dedication of an enormous new project to extract oxygen and water from the dead crust of the planet. The Deputy Planner of Mars, a poorly planned individual who had seen the Writ of Liberation with his own eyes, snatched a gun from his honor guard and shot himself. During the following quarterhour that shadow bathed the asteroids, terrified a few, left others unconcerned. For they either did not know, being buried in the mining shafts that hollowed out the precious cores of the tiny planets, or they were so dazed and uncaring with the eternal hardship of their toil that nothing could frighten them again. The racing wave of light overtook the scattered outposts of the Plan on the Moons of Jupiter. It darkened Saturn's rings, swallowed the satellites of Uranus and Neptune. It fell upon (the Spacewall Command complex cm distant Pluto, where only those whose eyes fell upon the sun by chance noticed it -- but they were afraid. It drowned the Spacewall itself -- more web than wall, a net of farscattered stations whose laser beams and patrol craft kept watch on the little-known infinities beyond, alert to guard the Plan of Man against vagrants from the Reefs, or such enemies as the Starchild. A wave of unexpected terror, it sent the crews of a thousand slowwheeling spaceforts shouting to their emergency stations. It awakened sirens and horns on ten thousand lonely patrol ships. It set the signals of confused alarm. A day or so beyond Pluto it washed the frontiers of the solar system, the snowball protoplanets of solid methane and ammonia which the distant gravitational arms of the sun had never gathered into actual worlds. And then at last, days beyond that last fearful outpost of the Plan, it began to bathe the Reefs of Space. O ut on the reefs, those living asteroids grown through unending ages by the minute fusorian organisms, feeding on the thin seas of interstellar' hydrogen, the wave of shadow no longer meant terror. It was only another event, in a life that was filled with danger and surprise. On one lonely worldlet a prospector stopped to peer in annoyance at where the sun had been. He fumbled in his pack for a luminous crystal of fusorian diamond, and bent over his drill again. On another reef a lay preacher in the Church of the Star glanced at his watch, then at the sky. He was not afraid when he saw that Sol was gone from its accustomed position. He had been expecting it. He left his work to face the blue blaze of Deneb; knelt, whispered a few words of supplication and thanksgiving. Calmly then he bent back to the unfinished space boot on his last, for he was by trade a cobbler. The shadow washed over a grave, but no one saw it. No one could have, for no one was there. Not even the cadaver; the grave was empty. The shadow rested lightly on a city of stern, hard-faced refugees from the Plan of Man -- on a great cluster of reeflets where a mighty space armada was being fashioned from fusorian steel -- on a girl named Quarla Snow, who stood watching it flicker out with tears bright in her eyes. On another living rock, a herdsman stood guarding a calving member of his herd from a flight of marauding pyropods. Lying behind a sheltering ledge of organic iron, one eye on his parturient spaceling while he searched out the armored killers with frugal flashes from his laser gun, he failed to notice that the sun had gone out. That was how it began, for every man, woman and child alive. A nd thirty-nine minutes later the sun began again its mighty outpouring of heat and light, but the dark looked down on a changed solar system. The sun's atomic engines ran IF again. Hydrogen fused into helium, through the carbon cycle. Filtered energy flowed toward the solar surface. Radiation poured into space. Three minutes from the sun, the wave of radiation crashed against that insulated dome on Mercury. It was recorded by the clucking camera, analyzed by the thousand automatic instruments. Sobbing with joy -- or fear! -- the blinded astronomers flashed the word to Earth: The sun lives again! But its light reached Earth before tiieir message. That first rebirth of light brushed a high mountain on Earth, where the Planner sat on his golden chair, the gray metal falcon that perched on his shoulder darting a red-eyed glare about the room, whirring its steel wings. The Planner was staring at a sheet of creamy parchment which bore the heading: It had been delivered to him by Ihe hand of one of his own guards, who had found it at his door. It aid: The Starchild requires the release of all of his followers who are held in the service of the Plan of Man by security collars. The Starchild requires that all of his followers who have been consigned to the Body Bank for salvage shall be restored to their original state, and then that they too shall be released. The Starchild finally requires that the barrier called the Spacewall shall be dismantled, and that free passage between the worlds of the Plan and the Reefs of Space shall be permitted. The Starchild is aware that the Plan of Man considers itself invulnerable, and thus he has arranged a warning demonstration. At the moment of the vernal equinox on Earth the sun will be extinguished. Twelve near stars will blink. If the Planner fails to meet the Starchild's requirements after this demonstration, further measures will be taken. These will result in the destruction of the Plan of Man. "Unplanned nonsense," groaned the Planner. "Impudence! Treason!" A tall Technicolonel said uneasily, "Sir. We must take measures... "Measures," grumbled the Planner, while his steel falcon clashed its pinions. "What does the Machine say?" A girl in a hooded gown said: "No data, sir." Her voice was like distant music, her expression serene. "No data! Find me some data! Find who this Starchild is! Tell me how he did this thing -- and how I can stop him from doing it again!" The Technicolonel coughed. "Sir, for some years we have had reports of a Church of the Star. A new religion, apparently springing from the Reefs -- " "Always the Reefs! They should have been destroyed twenty years ago!" "Yes, sir. But they were not. And the pioneers -- that is, sir, the tramps and vagabonds on the n Reefs -- they invented new superstitions. They worship, I believe, tfio star Deneb. Alpha Cygni -- the star at the top of the Northern Cross. They have imagined a paradise on the planets that they imagine to orbit around it. They wish to migrate there, or some of them do -- though at maximum drive for conventional spacecraft," he continued earnestly, "they might average some one per cent of the speed of light, in which case Deneb, at four hundred light-years distance, would not be reached for forty thousand -- "Get to the pointi" cried the Planner fretfully. "What about the Starchild?" "Well, sir, we had heard rumors of such a person in our investigations of this cult. Sometime ago we decided to send a -- uh -- a special investigator to secure intelligence concerning him and it. The investigator's name was Boysie Gann, sir, and -- " "Bring him to me! Is he here on Earth?" "Yes, sir. But -- well, sir, he did not return as we expected. In fact -- " the Colonel's face was a picture-puzzle of confusion -- "I must confess, sir, that we don't properly know how he did return, as -- " "Fool!" shouted the Planner. "Bring him to me! Never mind what you don't know. Bring me Boysie Gann!"... And that too was how it began; but in fact some parts of it began earlier. For Boysie Gann it began many months earlier, when he was a spy. U F or Boysie Gann the beginning was on Polaris Station, that great metal wheel that floats in the icy space past Pluto, one link in die Spacewall between the Plan of Man planets and the Reefs. Boysie Gann was twenty-six years old and already a Machine Major. Boysie Gann was six feet tall, brown-haired, blue-eyed. He was broad through the shoulders and slim at the waist. He moved like a cheerful cat. He looked like a fighter, and he was. He reported aboard the Polaris Station with a grin and a disarming look out of his bright blue eyes. "Boysie Gann reporting, sir," he told the deck officer. "Technicadet Gann, at your service." And that was a cheerful lie. He was no cadet, but at the spy school on Pluto the briefing officers had given him a new rank to make his job easier. A Machine Major was a man of importance. He would be watched. A cadet could go anywhere, see anything. The deck officer assigned him quarters, procured him help in stowing his gear, shook his hand to welcome him aboard, and ordered him to report to the commandant of the Station, Machine Colond Mohammed Zafar. Gann's assignment was to investigate rumors of strange anti-Plan activities on the Polaris Station. Gann was a soldier of the Plan, and he could hardly conceive of anything anti-Plan that was not at the same time corrupt, slovenly. IP evil and wrong. He had come to the station expecting to find it rundown and rusty, manned by surly malcontents. Yet the discipline was good. The men were on their toes. On the way through the plastic passages of the wheel, stepping high in the light gravity of the station's spin, he saw that the metalwork was bright. Confusing, thought Gann, mildly perplexed; but he knew his duty and he knew how to do it. He knocked on the door of the commandant's office and was ordered inside. He came to full attention and a brisk salute. "Technicadet Gann reporting as ordered, sir!" The. Machine Colonel returned his salute methodically. Here, too, Gann was faintly surprised, though he allowed none of the surprise to show through his military bearing and engaging grin. Machine Colonel Zafar was a short brown man in meticulously pressed dress whites, who looked as solid and enduring as the Plan itself. "Welcome aboard, cadet," he said. "Give me your orders, please." "Yes, sir!" Gann's orders were also a lie. They showed him to be a relief laser operator fresh out from Earth. They did not mention his true rank, or his intensive training on Pluto. The commandant read them carefully, then nodded. "Cadet Gann," he said in his soft, precise voice, "we are glad to have you on Polaris Station. As you know, this station is a major unit in the Spacewalk Our primary job is to detect and intercept any unauthorized traffic between the Plan of Man and the areas beyond Pluto -- the wastes that are called the Reefs of Space. Our secondary job is to monitor as much activity in the Reefs as possible. Our radar, laser and optical systems are the heart of our mission -- and so. Cadet Gann, what you do is the most important part of our work here. Don't fail us." "Sir!" said Boysie Gann earnestly, "I won't fail you! I serve the Plan of Man without question or pause!" And he saluted and left. But before he left he dropped his orders and retrieved them, with a flashing grin of apology to the colonel. He left with his shoulders high. For in' the instant when he wa bent out of the commandant's sight, picking up his papers, he had planted a listening bug under the projecting rim of Machine Colonel Zafar's desk. W ithin an hour of Gann's arrival on Polaris Station he was fitted with an iron collar. He had expected it. In so sensitive an installation as the station, every man wore one of the Machine's collars, so that at any instant, wherever he might be, any one of them could be destroyed. There was no other way. A space man gone amok -- a traitor loose in the fuel stores -- a drunken armorer at the studs of the station's mighty missiles -- any individual could do so much harm that it was necessary to have instant control over every man aboard. Still, k was an unoomfortaUe ieeling. Gann touched the collar fightly, and for once die smile was fone from his cheerful face. It was disturbing to know that someone somewhere -- the distant Machine on Earth, or one of its satellites nearby; a security officer on Pluto, or the commandant here on the station -- could at the surge of a radar pulse detonate the decapitation charge. His bunkmate was a tall, lean Nigerian, Technicadet M'Buna. Lounging in the security office, waiting for Gann, M'Buna saw his involuntary gesture and laughed. As he held the door and they started off to their duty post M'Bima said, "Makes you nervous, eh? Don't worry. If it goes off, you'll never know it!" Gann grinned. He liked M'Buna, had at first encounter already realized that here was an intelligent, mdent friend. Yet he said at once, Nobody likes a collar. And -- " he acted a pause, gjancing around -- "I hear there are people somes(#iere who do something about it. Out on the Reefs. Men who know how to get the collars off..." M'Buna said imcomfortably, "I wouldn't know anything about that. Here's our station." Gann nodded and let it pass. But he had not failed to notice that M'Buna had overlooked one essential act. What Gann said hinted at treason to the Plan. M'Buna's duty was clear: He should have called Gann on it and established exactly what was meant by the hint. And then reported Gann at once. H uge as an ocean liner, flimsy as a dragon-kite, Polaris Station was a big plastic wheel. Its spin was just fast enough to keep the crew's soup in the plate and the plate on the table. The hub was stationary, with the radar-laser search dome on the north face, the entry locks on the other. The station had been set up first, more than : quarter-century before, as a base for exploring the Reef cluster immediatdy to the galactic north of the sun. The snowball that had supplied reaction mass for the old nuclear rockets was still in detector range, swinging a hundred miles from the station in their coupled orbits. Now diere was no need for reaction mass, but the snow-asteroid still had its uses. It served as a cosmic garbage dump, the unreclaimed wastes and offal of the station hauled out there after every watch and left on its surface so that free-orbiting particles oi trash woi not return false signals to the search instruments back at the station. Within forty-eight hours of reporting aboard the station. Machine Major Boysie Gann had bugged the offices of the commandant, the executive officer, the quartermaster and the intelligence chief. Each tiny instrument was broadcasting a sealed-wave pickup of every word that was uttered in those sacrosanct chambers. Gann himself spot-monitored the transmissions when time allowed. The rest of the time the great records machine on Pluto received the signals, taped them and transmitted them to Earth and die IP Imried citadel of the Planning Machine itself. But all his bugs produced nothtagGann's orders had been less than explicit: Seek out and identify enemies of the Plan. Beyond that there had been only rumors. A vast smuggling enterprise, shipping valuable strategic materials from the inner Plan Worlds to the Reefs. A strange new cult that threatened to unite the reefs against the inner planets. A leader preaching a hegira. A security leak... But which of these was true, if any, Gann had not been told. It was not security doctrine to tell agents precisely what they should be looking for, on the grounds that their time was most productively employed when they could develop and follow up on many of their own leads. Yet here there were no leads at an. No real leads, at least. A few unguarded remarks at mess. Some slipshod accounting of spare parts for the laser banks. These were anti-Plan irregularities, to be sure, and men had gone to the Body Bank for far less. Men would go to the Body Bank for them now, from Polaris Station, for Gann had promptly filed the names and data. But he was iertain that what he should be looking for was something bigger and worse than an occasional disgruntled or sloppy officer. Within one week Gann had proved to his own satisfaction that if there was any major anti-Plan activity going on, it was not om Polaris Station. He had to look elsewhere. But where else was there?... It wasn't until he had been there twice that he realized where the "elsewhere" had to be. L ike all the noncommissioned personnel, Gann took his share of KP, garbage detail, cleanup orderly and so on. It was not usually a burdensome chore. The radar ovens and cybernated housekeepers did all the work; the only thing left for the men in charge was to make sure they were working properly. Even the short hop from station to the snowball for garbage disposal was a welcome break in the routine. He shared his garbage tour with M'Buna, and they spent their time chatting desultorily at the controls of the "scow" -- actually a reactionless space-tractor -- while the garbage pods steered, unloaded and returned themselves. M'Buna had never referred to Gann's leading remark about collars. Nor had Gann ever been able to draw him into any unplanned talk; he had given up trying. They talked about home. They talked about promotion. And they talked about girls. For Gann there was one girl, and her name was Julie Martinet. "No bigger than a minute, M'Buna," he said earnestly, "and with those beautiful dark eyes. She's waiting for me. When I come back -- " "Sure," said M'Buna. "Now, this girl I knew in Lagos -- " "You're talking about a girl," said Gann. "Julie is the girl. The only one who matters." "How come you never get any mail from her?" asked M'Buna. And Gann froze. "She doesn't like to write letters," he said after a moment, but inside he was cursing himself. So foolish a slip! There was a reason, and a perfectly good one, why he got no letters from JuHe Martinet. They were piling up for him on Pluto, he was sure of diat; but they could not be forwarded here. There was too much risk of someone reading one, and learning from some chance comment that Gann was not the simple laser tech he appeared. As soon as he could Gann changed the subject. "Say," he said, "what's that on the scope?" It was a tiny blip, settling down featherlight toward the surface of the snowball protoplanet. A clutter of trash, of course. Nothing more. It was by no means unusual for some part oi the garbage cargo to rebound from the tenuous clutch of the snowball's gravity and whed around in space for minutes or hours before finally settling into place. But M'Buna glanced at the radar display and said casually: "The commandant, I suppose. He comes out here every once in a while to dieck things over." Carefully, trying to hide his excitement, Gann said, "Wonder what he does there." M'Buna shrugged, reached forward and turned a switch. The pod had emptied itself and returned to the ship. "Tell you what," Gann went on. "Let's look." H e didn't wait for an answer. The pod back, the scow ready, there was nothing to stop him. He fed the ion-stream to the reactionless drive and cut in the course correcting side-rockets. The scow began to move. M'Buna said tautly, "No! Cut k out, Gann. The Old Man isn't going to want us skylarking around without permission." But Gann wasn't listening. He was watching the screens intently. If Machine Colonel Zfar was paying surreptitious visits to the ice-planetoid there had to be a reason. He was going to find out what that reason was. He cut in maximum magnification on the screens, and the surface of the little protoplanet of frozen gases leap up toward him. The thing was eight or ten miles thick, shaped more like a broken cinder block than a sphere. It was unusually dense, as the distant, orbiting blobs of frozen methane and hydrogen went; if it ever drifted in near the sun, it would make a major comet. In the screen its greenish crust of solid gases looked like a blizzard in slow motion. Disturbed by the impact of the waste they had dumped, the whole snowball was quivering and shaking, its light gas-snow . rising in sheets and falling again. There was absolutely nothing to be seen... But even a tiny planetoid has a great deal of surface by human standards. Somewhere on that surface Colonel Zafar had gone in his flying suit. Gann reached again for tt IF Ihe controls to circle aroimcL Some noise warned him. He turned, and saw M'Buna leaning toward him, a strange expression of mingled pity and hate on his face; and in M'Buna's hand was a glittering metal pencil, pointed at him. In that split-second of time that was left to him Gann thought wildly: If only I could get the report in, Fve sure found something anti-Plan going on now... And that was the last thought he had for a long time. He heard a hiss and had just time to realize that the sting on his cheek was a nerve-pellet fired from M'Buna's contraband gun. That was all. Blackness closed over him, and cold. Ill A nerve pellet is an instant anesthetic. It is also something more. It does not wear off. Not ever. The victim of a nerve pellet does not recover consciousness until he is given an antidote. When Gann woke up, he had no idea of how long he had been under the influence of the nerve pellet. But what he knew for sure was that he was no longer in the control room of the garbage scow. Nor was he anywhere else in the universe where he had ever been before. He lay on an uneven, rocky ledge. Under him was a soft, moist -- and warm! -- blanket of something that seemed to be a lichen. a kind of clinging moss that grew in thick, flaky scales. It was glowing with a soft steady light. On the rocks around him the light was greenish in hue. Farther away, on higher ridges, it shone purple and red. And above the rocks the sky was velvet black, with a single dazzling star blazing down on him. Boysie Gann struggled to his feet -- and soared into the air. As he came down he stared about him. When he looked away from the rocks and that bright star his eyes adjusted and he could see other stars. All the familiar constellations... And then it hit him. That bright star was the sun. He was on one of the Reefs of Space. G ann nevCT knew how he came there. The man vfbo would Gann never saw MBuna again. But h was dear that while under the influence of the narft pellet he had been transported and marooned. Alone, withoid a radio, without instruments, without a riiip or spacesuit, he might five out his life on that Reef -- but he would die there in the end. For he could never leave. It was surely a good way to dispose of an unwanted man -- simpler even than murder, since there was no body to get rid of. He was stiff and cold. His wrists were swollen and his ankles numb. Evidently his captors had not trusted to the nerve pellet to keep him quiet, but had riiackled lam as well. If But the shackles were gone now, with every other evidence of who k was who had brought him here. His head hurt. He was parched and hungry. He began to k)ok around him more methodically. His first needs were food and water; but he could not resist a look around at the wonder of the place. Bright metallic fern fronds tinkled like wind-gongs from an overgrown vale to one side. A distant whirring soimded like a flock of grouse. Impossible that there should be grouse here, Gann knew; yet there might be some sort of life. The Reefs of Space were created by life, like the coral atolls on Earth's warm seas. Life inhabited them all... But it was not always -- not even often! -- life of a sort compatible with humankind. For the Reefs were formed from clusters of fusorians, feasting on the hydrogen formed between the stars according to the laws of the Neo-Hoyle Hypothesis, coverting it into heavier atoms, and then into atoms heavier still. The life in the Reefs was sometimes warm-blooded, carbonbased, oxygen-breathing animal. But more often it was metal or crystal -- at best, worthless for food; at worst, a deadly danger. The bright star, Sol, was near the south celestial pole, Gann discovered. That put him more or less galactic north of the sun -- and therefore, almost straight out from Polaris Station. How far out? He had no way of knowing, except tfiat the major Reef clusters were thought to be some two hundred astronomical units from Sol. At a Gann turned his eyes from the stars and looked about him. He had a world to explore. It might be less than a hundred yards in its longest axis, but it was all he had. He rubbed his aching wrists and ankles and began to explore. He climbed carefully out of that small, glowing green dell -- carefully, because he knew the daftger of a reeflet. The fusorian symbiotes held an atmosphere, somehow; but it was like a soap bubble, and if Gann were so incautious as to step too high and soar through it, he would find himself in the hard vacuum of the space between the stars, and death would come in a horrible explosive burst as his blood boiled off and his cells ruptured. He climbed toward the ridge paused and looked around. Ahead of him was another dell this one bearing some sort of glittering bush. The tants were shoulder-high, with plumes of narrow gloss, sprinkled with what seemed to be individual fusorian cells that glowed with their own light. Each leaf darkened from green at the base to black at the tip, and each ended in a bright red berry. Queerly, they grew in rows. They looked, in fact, like a truck farm in Earth's populous market valleys, and at once Gann's hunger surged forth. They looked like food! He started toward them at a shambling run -- And from behind him a voice oke. IP "Well, good for you. See you woke up finally. Headed right for the feedbag too, eh?" M achine Major Boysie Gann's training had prepared him for any shock. It was trained reflex that stopped him in mid-flig';u, turned him, brought him hick down to the glowing mossy si u race of the reeflet in a half criiich, ready to do battle. But there was nothing wc'iike in the figure that was coming toward him. He was a stubby little man with a big belly and a dirty yellow beard. His clothing was woven out of some kind of rough fiber. It was ragged and filthy and half unbuttoned. And clinging to his bald brown head was a black-fanged, greenscaled, red-eyed creature the size of a capuchin monkey. It looked like a toy dragon. And from under the knife-sharp edges of its scales seeped little wisps of smoke. Boysie Gann said warily: "Hello." "Why, hello," the man said in a mild voice, "u was sleeping. Figured rd best leave you to sleep it off. Nice to have you here. I wasnt expecting company." "I wasn't exactly expecting to be here." The man nodded and thrust out a dirty, gnarled hand. "Figured that. Couple fellows dropped you five, six hours ago. Looks like they gave you a rough enough time so I let you be." The creature on its head wheeled to face Gann as its owner moved, glaring at him with hot red eyes, Gann shook the man's hand and said, "I need some water. And food." "Why, sure. Come along then." He nodded, the creature scrambling back and forth, and turned to lead the way across the cultivated field toward what seemed to be a tiny black lake. "Omer don't like strangers," he called over his shoulder, "but he won't bother you none. Just don't make any sudden moves, is all. Omer's a pyropod -- just a baby, of course, but they can be mean." Silently Gann agreed. The littio creature looked mean enough, with its oozing plumes of smoke and fiery eyes. They loped across the glowing rows of the man's little farm and reached the shore of the lake -- no more than a pond really, fifty feet across, its surface disturbed with the slow, tall waves of low-gravity fluids. On its far bank a sharp cliff rose in a glitter of metallic outcroppings, softened by glowing plants and mosses, and in the base of the cliff was a metSi lean-to that hid the mouth of the cave. "That's home," said the man cheerfully. "Welcome to it, such as 'tis. Come in and rest yourself." "Thanks," said Gann. "By the way, we didn't really introduce ourselves." "Oh? Guess you're right," said the man. "I'm Harry Hickson. And you -- " Gann started to speak, but Hickson didn't pause -- "you're what you call it. Machine Major Boysie Gann, out of the spy school on Pluto." IF F or twenty-four hours Gann rested in the cave of the hermit, Harry Hickson, and his thoughts were dark. How had Hickson known his name? Even more -- how had he known that he was not a shanghaied radar-laser tech, but a graduate of the spy school? There was no answer in Gann's brain, so he shut off his mind to conjectures and applied it to restoring his physical condition and reconnoitering his surroundings. Evidently he had been unconscious for longer than he had thought on the ship that had dumped him on this reeflet, for he had lost weight and strength and there was a straggly stubble of beard on his chin. But Hickson fed him and cared for him. He gave Gann a bed of sorts to sleep on -- only a stack of reeking blankets, but as good as the one he slept on himself -- and fed him from the same pot of greasy stew as himsupplemented with fruits and roots and shoots of the plants he grew on the rock. The reddish berries, which tasted like a sort of acid citrous fruit, were a good source of all necessary vitamins, Harry told him earnestly, and one of the Hchens was a source of protein. Gann did not question the food. Clearly it had kept Harry Hickson alive for a long time -- the cave showed that it had been his home for months or even years -- and it would keep Gann alive for at least as long as he intended to stay on the reeflet. And that would not be long. For he had learned from Hickson that there was a way of communicating that would bring help if he needed it. "Never needed it, o' course," he said, fishing a long string of a rhubarb-like vegetable out of his bowl of stew and licking his fingers. "But it's comforting to know it's there... Say, you worried about that collar, Boysie?" Gann stopped in mid-gesture, suddenly aware that he had been tugging at it. "Not exacdy," he said quietly. "Get it off (rf you, if you like," Hickson offered mBcfly. "No trouble. Done it lots o times." Gann stared. "What the Plan arc you talking about?" he demanded. "Don't you know what this is? These things are built with automatic destruct circuits, as well as the remote triggering equipment. If anybody tries to take them off -- " He touched both sides of the collar with fingertips and flipped them up and outward, pantomiming the explosion of a decapitation charge. "Oh, sure, I know all about that, said Hickson. "Hold still. No, not you, Gann. You, Omer! Don't wiggle so. Makes me nervous... He got up from his squatting position at the rude plank table where they ate and came around behind Gann. "Just you sit there, Boysie," he said. "Can move if you want to, it don't matter, but don't look toward me... Omer confound you! Get your claws outa my scalp! Raised hdm from an egg, that little devil, right here in my own smoke-pot, but he gets jumpy #S when he knows I'm going to -- Well, here we are." And something moved around Gann's neck. He couldn't see what Hickson was doing, was sure that the tubby little hermit had not brought any tools or instruments. Yet there was a sudden constriction at his throat. He heard the lock snap... The collar fell of his neck and clattered to the floor of the cave. Gann leaped to his feet and spun, white-faced, to be ready for the explosion. But no explosion came. "Now, rest easy, Boysie," complained the hermit. "You're spooking Omer, here. That thing can't blow up any more." Casually he picked up the collar and lifted it to examine it in the light of a mass of luminous diamond that would have "They make them real nice," he said admiringly. "Lot of detail in this thing. Too bad it can't be something more useful -- " And he tossed it to the rear of the cave. "Well," he said, "you about ready to move on now?" Gann stood silent for a second, looking at him. "Move on where?" he asked. "Oh, don't worry, Boysie. I know what you were thinking. Plain as day. You figure I ought to go back and get examined by the Planning Machine, 'cause you don't quite understand what I'm up to but you think it's unplanned. Well, that's right. Unplanned is what I am. And I don't mind if you do what you're thinking, and te my lasergun and call help so you can get out of here. But I'm not going with you, Boysie. Make up your mind to that." "All right," said Gann, surrendering. But in his mind he was not surrendering at all. Hickson had put it very mildly when he said that Gann wanted to take him back for study. Gann not only wanted to, he intended to. In fact, he had never intended anything as hard in his life -- had never been so determined or insistent, not even about his career in the service of the Machine, not even in his great love for Julie Martinet. This man Harry Hickson was an unplanned disaster in the making. Whoever he was, however he did what he did, he was a terrible danger to the Plan of Man. Gann could almost hear the instructions of his briefing officer back on Pluto -- if he had been able to report Hickson's existence to him, and if the briefing officer could issue an order: Subject Hickson is a negative factor. His uncatalogued knowledge must be retrieved for the Plan. Then each organ of his unautomated body must be ob Uterated... But how to get him back into the jurisdiction of the Planning Machine? There had to be a way. There would be a way. Machine Major Boysie Gann was sure of it. An it required was that he be patient -- and then, when his chance came, be ready. Gann said, "If you mean it, then IF let's take your guo and signal right now. I'm ready to move on." H arry Hickson led Gann to a point of red-scaled rock, puffing and wheezing. On his bald scalp the fledgling pyropod wheeled and slithered, keeping its bright red eyes on Boysie Gann. "See up there?" called Hickson over his Moulder. "That star there next to Vega -- " Boysie Gann followed his pointing finger. "You mean Theta Lyrae?" The hermit turned and looked at him, mildly surprised. "That's right, Boysie. You fellows learn a lot in that spy school. Too bad you don't -- Well, never mind that. One I mean, it's just below. Theta Lyrae. The faint red one. Forget the name, but that one right there. That way's Freehaven." Gann felt his blood pound. "Freehaven? I've heard of it. A colony of reef-rats." "Aw, Boysie don't say it like that. They're free men, that's all. That's the biggest place in the Reefs, Freehaven is. Like a -- well, what would you call it? A kind of a town only its one whole cluster of Reefs, maybe a hundred thousand miles across. And maybe half a billion miles from here." "I see," said Gann, thinking with exultation and pride: What a prize to bring back to Pluto! A whole city to be Planned and returned to the brotherhood of the Machine! He could almost see the glowing jet-trails of the Plan cruisers vectoring in on the cluster... "Don't get your hopes up," Hickson said dryly. "You ain't there yet, Boysie, and maybe even when you get there you won't find it too easy to pick up a phone and call the Machine. Now hush a minute while I send for your ride out there." He pick up the clumsy old laser gun he had taken out of its greasy rag wrappings  back in the cave, checked its power settings, raised it and aimed carefully at the distant red spark that was the lineof-sight to Freehaven. Three times he snapped the trigger, then lowered the gun and turned to Gann. "That's all there is to it. Take 'em a while to get here. Might as well go back to the cave." But he paused, glancing at Boysie Gann as though he were mildly embarrassed about something. Then he seemed to come to a decision. He turned back to the stars, set down the laser pistol and stretched out his arms. His lips moved, but Gann could hear no sound. On his bald pate the pyropod hissed and slithered. The hermit's whole body seemed stretched, yearning, toward -- toward what? Gann could not tdl. Toward Freehaven, perhaps. Toward the faint red star that marked its position -- or toward Theta Lyrae nearby -- or toward the great bright giants of the Summer Triangle that marked that part of the sky, Vega, Altair and Deneb... Then Harry Hickson relaxed and the pyropod scuttled down from his scalp onto his shoulder, as the hermit raised one arm and made a sinuous, undulating motion. Like  as Ihe wriggle of a snake, Gann tibought Or the looping movement f a swan's neck. Swan? Some faint old memory tirred in Boysie Gann's mind. Something about a swan -- and a tar -- But it would not come clear, and lie followed Hairy Hickson back to the cave. H arry Hickson's little reeflet was one drifting island in an expanding infinity of matter and space. The doctrine of the NeoHoyle Hypothesis was clear: The universe was limitless, in space, in time -- and in matter. New mass was forming everywhere in the form of newly created hydrogen atoms, as the old complexes of matter -- the stars and planets, the dust clouds and the galaxies -- were spinning slowly apart. Hickson's reeflet was an infant among bodies of organized matter, years in age, in size no more than a dust mote. Yet it was like most of the universe in that; for most matter is young. The spiralling growth in rate of creation of new matter makes that sure. Some galaxies, and even some of the reefs between them, are old beyond computation and imagination, because the steady-state universe has neither beginning nor end. And life is the oldest phenomenon of all. Older than the oldest stars -- but yet young, though those scattered and forgotten stars are black and dead. Life in space has lived -- literaL ly -- forever. Every p o;e ii i. oecn evolved, through every conceivable evolutionary test. Watching Harry Hickson play with his pet pyropod, Boysie Gann reflected that the strangest lifeform he knew was man. For here was the pudgy, balding hermit -- unplanned and deviant, a deadly danger by every standard of the Planning Machine -- solemnly attempting to teach his pyropod to fly. He lifted the little horror off his head and set it carefully on a high ledge, then retreated. Spitting and hissing, its red eyes glittering, its scales seeping the smoke of its internal jet fires, it wailed in a thin, raucous screech for him to come back. Then, despairing, it launched itself out into the air, missed Hickson by yards and crashed into the rock w at the far side of. the cave, where it remained, writhing and hissing, until Hickson took pity on it and picked k up. "It's a wonder it doesn't dash its brains out," muttered Gann, die fifth time the little beast crashed into the rock. "Oh, I guess so," Hickson agreed mildly. "Don't suppose it has any, really, dioughA pretty clumsy kind of beast k is, right, Omer?" And he patted the little monster with the appearance of real affection for a moment, then sighed and set it down. He carefully inverted a crate and set it down over the pyropod, then put a mass of silvery fusorian coral upon the crate. The pyropod squalled and hissed but Hickson ignored it. "Hoped I could teach it to fly before I go," rr he said regretfully, "but I guess I won't make it. Boysie, your transportation ought to be here in an hour. Care to see what the pilot's gonna look like?" He thumbed an old-fashioned two-dimensional color print out of a button-down pocket in his ragged coat and handed it to Gann. It was a pretty, quite young girl, one hand resting on the head of a seal-like creature, before a background of a glowing purple and silver Reef. "Name's Quarla," said the old man affectionately. "Quarla Snow. Daughter of an old friend of mine. He treated me, couple years ago. Doctor, he is, and a good one. Don't know much about what ails me, though..." The hermit seemed to realize he was rambling and caught himself wp short, "Guess that's all," he said, smiling with a touch of embarrassment. "Swan bless you, Boysie. Give Quarla my love." And in a moment, before Gann could realize what he was about to do, the old man had turned, pushed aside the metal door that overhung the entrance to the cave, and stepped out. Gann shook his head, half in rueful amusement, half in surprise. "Hey!" he called. "Hickson! Where are you going? Wait for me!" And he hurried to the door of the cave and out onto the sward the old hermit had so carefully cropped. The man was not there. His footprints were there, still visible in the faint bruises on the lichenous surface of the earth. But Harry Hickson was gone. Gann ranged the surface of the entire reef in the next few hours, shouting and searching. But there was no answer to his call, no sight of Hickson anywhere. The man had simply vanished. IV I n the cave 'Machine Major Gann found the old man's laser gun -- an ancient Technicorps model that must have been smuggled into space before the Spacewall was set up. It gave him a small feeling of confidence to carry it, though there was no visible enemy to shoot it at. He needed that confidence. No man can be aloneEach man has his place in the Plan of Man, under the benevolent guidance of the Planning Machine. Each man serves the Plan, so that the Plan may serve all men... That was doctrine, and Boysie Gann found himself foolishly repeating it as he clambered up the red-scaled rock to the point from which Hickson had signaled to Freehaven. It did not help very much. No man can be alone... but Boysie Gann felt very much alone indeed, on that tiny floating islet of reef, under the blazing stare of There was no reason for him to be on this point of rock, rather than anywhere else on the surface of the reeflet. He had no reason to believe his rescuer would come to look for him there. Had no reason to be sure there would be a rescuer at all, in fact, for what the half-demented hermit, Harry Hickson, had said could not be accepted as reliable... Yet he stayed there, waiting, for hours. He leaned against a cairn of rock and scanned the skies. Only the distant, unfriendly stars returned his look. He sat, leaning against the rock, and drowsed. No sound or motion disturbed him. And then... There was a faint blur of greenish mist in the low black sky, moving at the threshold of vision. Gann sprang to his feet, eyes peering into the immense emptiness above him. The greenish blur was so faint he could not be sure it was real. Yet -- surely there was something there; and, following it, a cluster of even fainter reddish sparks. Gann raised the laser, checked the settings to make sure he was not firing a blast of destruction into the sky, and thumbed the trigger thrice, as he had seen Hickson do, pointing it toward the greenish blur. A moment... and then the green glow veered toward him. It was his rescuer, he was sure of it. But what were the red sparks? Even as he watched, the tiny, distant coals veered too, following the greenish glow. Rapidly they grew nearer... Then one of the red sparks dashed ahead of the rest, with a long blue trail of incandescence faintly visible behind it. It was like an ominous comet as it dived through the greenish cloud. Noise smote Gann's ears abruptly: a sudden roaring, like the jet of an old-time rocket. M The things had come at last into the shallow atmosphere of his reeflet. He heard the shriek of their motion through the air -- and something else. Something was screaming. The red spark thundered overhead, out of the green cloud, toward Gann like some deadly ancient missile homing in on a radar trace -- then at the last moment rose up a dozen yards above his head, and as it passed he caught a sudden glimpse of nightmare. Metal scales fike broken mirrors. Enormous tdons, dripping something that glowed and was golden, something that splattered to the ground near Gann like a soft, fitful rain. The red spark divided into two red, monstrous, blinking eyes, mirror-rimmed, in a head like a maniac dragon's. And the roaring blue flame was the tail of the thing. "Pyropod!" breathed Boysie Gam? aloud, transfixed. He had never seen an adult before -- had heard of them only as distant rumors, like the sort of ghost stories unplanned parents used to tell their children. The baby pyropod that had been Harry Hickson's pet had not prepared him for the huge, menacing reality that shrieked through the air above him now. He stood, stunned. A pyropod is a living rocket, flame-footed and deadly. Their chemistry is not that of Earthly air-brcjithers; their primeval genesis came from the same non-carbon evolutionary strain that shaped the IF fusorians. On their plasma jets, jaticlear in temperature, fired by fusorian symbiotes, they can out:fun a Plan cruiser and outfight any Terrestrial beast in search of prey. And to the pyropods, anything that moves is prey. Their jets take enor;mous quantities of reaction mass. Their appetites are insatiable. Scavengers of space, they will attack anything. Fortunately for the continuation of life on the inner planets and the Reefs of Space, atmosphere is a slow poison to the pyropods and gravity damages their reflexes. They are beasts of the interstellar void, ship-sized monstrosities at their hugest, big as cave bears even when barely mature. Standing in shock, watching the great beast Boysie Gann stared at the red eyes pulsing in their telescopic mirrors, wheel and flash back toward him, imagined the black talons ripping metal or rock like bread... And realized, almost too late, that he was the target of those monstrous talons now. Instinctively he raised the laser gun and fired. The charge was minimal, only the message setting; yet the great pyropod felt it, screamed and soared away. Gann hurled himself to the shelter of the rock cairn, staring about. The torn green cloud of luminosity was dissolving in the night sky above him. Streamers of mist scattered and faded. And where the cloud had been, Gann could see what had brought it. A spaceling. One of the warmblooded, seal-like creatures that roam the space between the stars, natural prey to the pyropods, friend to man. It had brought the cloud -- for it was the spaceling's ability to hold atmosphere about it, in a Ryeland-effect field, that permitted them, as oxygen-breathers, to live in space at all. The spaceling had been grievously wounded. Even from so far away, Gann could see the hideous slash that ripped along the whole length of its sleek, golden body as it came tumbling down. Something was clinging to its fur -- a rider? Gann could not be sure; but what he was certain of was that the end for both the spaceling and its burden was very near. The pyropod that had attacked him had wheeled again and was diving on the wounded seal-like beast. A louder howling drowned out the spaceling's scream as the pyropod came out of the dark over a purple-scaled ridge, red eyes pulsing and dripping talons reaching again. Gann reacted without thought. He twisted the crystal of that old laser to maximal intensity, steadied the tube on the rocks of the cairn and fired into those dreadful flashing eyes. They exploded. The pyropod bellowed in agony. Its eyes were gone -- eyes or eyelike structures; actually, Gann knew, they were more like laser search gear. But whatever they were, they were gone now, burst like the shattered hull of a subtrain when the field of its tunnel fails and the fluid rock crushes it. The pyropod drove blindly up and away, squalling until its sound was cut off like tibe dropping of a curtain. It had passed beyond the atmosphere into space. Blind and wounded, Gann thought it would not be back. And a blessing that was, since an orange light was blinking on the laser gun, warning him that the fuel cell was fully exhausted. He knew there were other pyropods still out there, somewhere beyond the veil of air. He could see their faint red sparks circling, and the blue trails of their fiery exhausts. They veered all at once, and drove in toward the retreating comet-tail of the pyropod he had wounded. There was a puff of incandescent vapor... Dimly Gann realized that its mates had destroyed the wounded one, torn it open and were now wheeling and diving, fighting for their shares of the kill. But he had no time for them. The spaceling had tumbled to earth halfway across the little reeflet, and Gann stumbled and leaped across the redscaled rocks to find it. I t was lying at the edge of Harry Hickson's little plantation, urting glowing yellow blood across the green moss. Beside it was its rider, bent over the terrible wound, tryingwith both hands to stanch the flow of blood. The rider was a girl. Hickson had been right. It was the girl in the photograph he had displayed. The spaceling moaned and shuddered as Gann drew near, its voice a faint, inarticulate sob The girl was sobbing too. "Can I help?" said Boysie Gann. The girl, Quarla Snow, turned quickly, startled. She stared at Gann as though he were himself a pyropod, or some more fearsome monster from legend. There wa fright in her eyes -- and yet queerly, thought Gann, almost relief as well; as though she had expected something even worse. It was the expression of a man who finds himself confronted by a wolf -- when he expects a tiger. "Who are you?" she demanded. Her ' voice was low and controlled. She was tall and strong, but very young. "Boysie Gann," he said. "And you're Quarla Snow. Harry Hickson told me you'd be here." Her hand flew to her mouth. Her eyes widened in fear. For a moment she seemed about to run, then she shook her head in a pathetic gesture and turned ba to the spaceling. Its golden blood had ceased to flow, ks body to move. The sounds it had uttered were still. "Sultana's dead," the girl said softly, as though to herself. "Fm sorry," Boysie Gann said inadequately. He glanced aloft -- tha pyropods were out of sight entirely now -- then back to her. Quarla Snow's face was lightly tanned, almost to match her honeycolored hair. She was nearly the color of her spaceling. Her white coveralla were splashed with that golden ichor, her hands dripping with it Yet she was beautiful. For a moment a buried emotion IF tmnbled inside Boysie Gann, a fflemory of Julie Martinet and the taste of the fresh salt surf on her mouth when he kissed her on the beach of the little Mexican resort. Playa Blanca, long ages ago when they had said good-by. This girl m not in the least resemble Julie Martinet. She was blonde where Julit had hair like night; she was tall, and Julie tiny. Her face was broad, friendly and, even in her sorrow and fear, it showed contentment and joy in life, while Julie Martinet was a girl ,of sad pleasures and half-expressed sorrows. Yet there was something in both of them that stirred him. He said hastily: "Those things may be back. We'd better do something about it." The girl's tears were drying on her cheeks and her expression had become more calm. She looked down at the dead gun in Gann's hands and half-smiled. "Not with that, Boysie Gann. It's empty." I "I know. We'd better get back to Hickson's cave. He may have left other charges." "Left them? But I diought you said he was here!" The shadow fell over her face again, her eyes bright and fearful. "He was, yes. But he's gone. Disappeared. I don't know where." The girl nodded absently, as diough she were too dazed to take in what he had said. She dropped to her knees beside the dead spacefing and stroked ks golden head. "Poor Sultana. I'll never forgive myself. When I got your signal I -- well, I was frightened. I dida know what to do. Dad was gone on an emergency call. He'd taken our ship, and -- I decided to ride Sultana out here by myself." Her mouth set white for a moment. "I didn't really think ofany danger. There aren't many pyropods in these clusters any more -- been hunted out years ago, though they keep straying back. But I'd outrun them on Sultana often enough before. I didn't think about the fact that she's -- that she was -- getting old." She stood up and touched Gann lightly on the arm, a gesture of reassurance. "But you're not to worry. We aren't marooned here; Dad win come for us in the ship as soon as he gets home. I left a message." Gann nodded. "So he'll wait a wMe," he said, comprehendingly, "and then, if you haven't returned in -- what? a day or so? -- then he'll come looking for you." But Quarla Snow rfiook her golden head, her expression unreadable. "No. He won't wait. Not even a second. I said in my note that Harry Hickson's old distress signal had come. He'D be here as fast as his ship can bring him, to see who sent Harry's signaL" Gann stared. "Harry did. Harry Hickson. I told you!" "I know you told me," the girt said, her voice calm but with an undercurrent of wonder and of fear. "But you see, it couldn't have been Harry. I -- no, wait. I'll show you." And she turned and led him away from the cultivated little field. IF back up to the red-scaled crest of fock where he bad rested hb laser gun on the cairn of rocks to fire at the pyropod. '"See?" she said, touching the cairn. He bent closer to look, and there on the lowermost rock, on one half-smoothed face of a boulder, was a faint scratching of carved letters, whittled out a line at a time with a laser gun, almost invisible unless you knew just where to look: Harry Hickson Died of a fusorian infection Deneb light his way "You see?" said the girl. "Harry could not have sent the message. He died here three years ago." V A ll this was months before the Writ of Liberation. On Earth the old Planner sat in silent, joyous communion with the Planning Machine. In solarian space the great Plan cruisers arrowed from satellite to planet, from asteroid to distant Spacewall post, carrying the weapons and the orders of the Machine to all the farfJung territories of the Plan of Man. On the island of Cuba, in the Body Bank, a Nigerian ex-Technicorps man, broken for inefficiency, gave up the last of his vital organs to serve some more worthy servant of the Plan, and died. (His name had once been M'Buna. He had been captured and court-martialed for desertion.) A girl named Julie Martinet, in a dormitory hall far below the surface of the Peruvian Andes, sat with stylus in hand deciding on which letter to write -- one to the man she loved "but had not heard from", the other an application for special duty in the service of the Machine. And out on the reefs, tn the sprawling hundred-orbed community called Frcehaven, Machine Major Boysie Gann began to understand that his greatest opportunity for service -- and his greatest hope of reward! -- had been handed to him on a silver platter. For he was at large in Freehaven, the very heart of the Reefs of Space. And he knew, or thought he knew, a way to get back to th# worlds of the Plan. True, there were some puzzling problems. Some of them, indeed, were almost frightening. What could Quarla Snow hope to gain by pretending that Harry Hickson was dead? What did she think Gann had seen on the little reeflet? A ghost? It was no ghost that had fed him, healed him, taken the collar from around his neck. And it was no coincidence, he was coming to believe, that had brought him to Hickson's world in the first place. There was no proof, of course. But he was sure that M'Buna, perhaps Colonel Zafar as well, were in some way related to Hickson and the treasonable activities that were going on all around him in this unplanned, decadent, dangerous world of the Reefs. He had heard hints. An unguarded word, a look, a renud!k ttoA was halted before It began. Nothing tangible -- but enough to make him sure that there were links between the Reefs and the Plan worlds -- links that extended even into the Technicorps, even into the vital defenses of the Spacewall itself. If he could get back -- No! he thought. When he got back, with the proof of this spreading rot, with the names of the conspirators and the evidence that would send them to the Body Bank, then no reward in the Machine's power would be too great to give to Machine Major Boysie Gann. And Julie Martinet would be waiting... Meanwhile there was a lot of work to do. Gann dared not make notes or attempt to secure tapes or photographs; but he missed no opportunity to scout and examine every part of this queer community of Freehaven. Even the name was strange and somehow disconcerting. Freehaven. As though "freedom" were important! And yet -- Boysie Gann could not help but notice that strangely the decadent, unruly mobs that dwelt in Freehaven seemed somehow sturdier, somehow happier, in some way more alert and even who lived under the all-powerfid and protective embrace of the Plan of Man... It was confusing. But his duty was clear. Gann set himself to learn aM there was to know. F reehaven consisted of a o(Hipb of thousand people, scattered over a hundred fusorian-grown rocks and a hundred thousand miles of space. Many of the rocks had been terraformed, Gann learned, with the lichenous air-plant he had first seen on Harry Hickson's little reef. The rest of them were airless, but all of them supplied useful metals and minerals to the bustling economy of freehaven. Gann was not sure just what he had expected -- tattooed savages, perhaps, dancing to a wild tomtom -- but he had surely not been prepared for this modern, busy community. There were farms and herds -- of spacelings, but even in one case a stock farm with sixty head of what seemed to be Guernsey cattle, stolen somehow from the Plan of Man and transported in some improbable manner out to this hydrogen-based worldlet twenty airless reef that was mostly pure fusorian iron there was even a steel mill -- one of the small nuclearpowered units developed by Technicorps engineers for use on the asteroids, to save the high cost of lifting Terran steel into space. Gann marveled at it all. He admitted it to Quarla Snow and her father, with whom he was staying as guest... or prisoner, he was never siue which... at a meal when he was served as fine a steak as he had ever tasted, with wines that hom the bouquet of French vineyards. Dt. Snow boomed: "It isn't only ttm food that is good here, youi IF man. ft is life! It has a fiavor here that the Plan worlds wffl never taste. Boysie Oann said engagingly, "You may be right. I -- well, you have to excuse me. You see, I've never known anything but the Plan." Quarla's father nodded briskly. "Of course. None of us had, before we made our way out here. None but Quarla, at any rate, and a few others like her who were bom here. They've lived in freedom all their lives." Gann said, with just the right inflexion of doubt: "But I don't understand. I mean -- how does it work? Who tells you what you're to do?" "No one, boy! ITiat's the whole point of freedom! We came here because we didn want to five under the collar of the Machine. We work together, and as you see we work welL Isperity and happiness! Thafs what weve bufit out of nothingness, just as the fusorians build our worlds for us out of thin gas and energy. Why, when Harry Hickson and I came here -- " He broke off and tugged at his chin, frowning at Boysie Oann. "Yes?" said Gann. "You and Hickson -- ?" "It was different then," said Dr. Snow shortly. "Boy, do you stiB want us to believe that story erf yours about Hickson? A man I helped to bury myself, right under the rocks of hn home?" Gann said carefully, knowing that he was on dangerous ground: "Well, sir, ol course I dort know anything about Hickson. But what I told you was true. The man who summoned Quarla said he was Harry Hickson, and I had absolute ly no reason at all to doubt him at the time." Snow nodded somberly and said no more; but Gann noticed that he no longer seemed to enjoy his meal. Gann put the matter from his mind. He was thinking of something bigger. He was thinking of the gratitude of the Machine when he returned, riding one of Quarla Snow's spacelings, as she was even now teaching him to ride -- bringing word of the community of Freehaven and its precious crop of several thousand splendid candidates for tissue salvage at the Body Bank! H e rose and strolled with Quarla outside. Harry Hickson's pet pyropod, which Quarla had insisted on rescuing from the cave when her father arrived to take them off the reeflet, hissed and slithered around Ae area outside the door where its staked diain permitted it to move. He took her hand and held it, as they looked over the green ramble of glowing vines toward the distant beacm tlat was the central urban area of Freehaven. "You promised to let me ride one of your spacelings," he said, squeezing her hand and grinning. "If Fm going to be a permanent inhabitant here, Fd better get started learning my way around." She looked at him thoughtfully, then smiled. Under her golden hair her eyes were an intense blue. "Why not?" she said. "But not out of the atmosphere, Boysie. Not at first." "I thought the spacelings brought their air with diem -- " She nodded, but said firmly: "Not out of the atmosphere. For one thing, there might be pyropods." He scoffed: "So close to Freehaven? Ncmsense, Quark! Whafs the other thing?" She hesitated. "Wdl," she began -- She was saved the trouble of answering. A pale bhie wash of energy brightened up the sky over their heads. Both of them turned to look; a spacecraft was coming in for a landing, full jets blazing to slow its racing drive. Whoever it was who was piloting the craft, he was in a hurry. In a matter of seconds the ship was down on the lichenous kwn before Dr. Snow's clinic, its lock open, a man leaping out. He glanced toward Quarla and Boysie Gann, cried, "Emergency!", and turned to receive something that was being handed to him out the lock of the ship. Quarla cried: "I'll get my father. Boysie, run and help them!" Gann was already in motion, hurtling across the lichenous ground, though the two men in the rocket needed Bttle help. What was coming through the lock of the ship was a man on a stretcher, wrapped in white sheets. In the light gravity of the Reef the two of them were perfectly adequate to handle it Gann lKre a lumd anyway. "Sick," panted one of the men. "Don't know who he is, but he collapsed in my spaceling corral. Thought it might be something dangerous -- " Gann nodded, helped lift the stretcher on which the sick man was thrashing and babbling -- And almost dropped it, light gravity or not. He stood there, jaw hanging, eyes wide. Face streaming with perspiration, eyes vacant, head tossing from side to side in delirium, the face of the man on the stretcher was nevertheless very familiar to Boysie Gann. It was the face of Machine Colond Mohammed Zafar. I f ever Boysie Gann had needed all the wits and wiles that had been drummed into him in the spy school on Pluto, now was the moment. "Dangerous," the reef-rat who had brought Zafar had called him. He was more than dangerous, he spelled a strong probability of disaster for Boysie Gann. Zafar of all people would know him -- and if, as Gann was morally certain, Zafar and M'Buna had been joined in some anti-Plan scheme on Polaris Station, Zafar would surely now know that Gann was no simple radar tech. He dared not risk Zafar's recovering consciousness and identifying him. Yet his every loyalty to the Plan of Man demanded that he take every chance to learn more about IF Zafar from die cdond'e diointed Havings. Dr. Snow made it easf for him, widiout knowing it "You, boyi" he snapped. "Stay out of here. Quarla, loo! May be contagious... But stay where I cmi find you if I need you," he added, bending over his patient The two of them stood at the door of the emergency room, Quarla's hand, forgotten, in Boysie Gann's. He's bad, Boysie," she whispered. "Don't know what h is. I haven't seen anything like that since Harry -- " Then she stopped, and went on in a different tone, to the men who had brought him: "You'd better wait until my father's examined him. You might have been exposed." In the emergency room Dr. Snow was lifting a bimetal thermometer out of Zafar's slack mouth, mumbling incoherently. Boysie Gann strained to hear what the man was saying, but all he could catch were words like "... trap for minds... "... living dust and lying dreams..." Dr. Snow's expression was serious. "High," he muttered, then anced toward the group at the door. "Quarla!" he called. "You'll have to compound an injection for me. Standard broad-spectrum antibiotics, afebrilium, analgesics. Call his weight -- let's see -- ninety kilos. And make the dosage maximum." Quarla nodded and hurried to the pharmacy room, while Snow bent back to ibe man. Even at this distance, Gann could see fiiat the fonner machine colonel's face  wat contcurted in agony and fear. There was more than sickness in Zafar's wild muttering, there was terror. He pushed himself erect, eyes staring, and shouted: "Graveyard of the galaxy! Starchild! Beware the trap! Beware your heart's desire!" Then Quarla was back with a spray hypodermic. Her father took it from her, pushed her out #f the room again and quickly injected the man. Zafar slumped back onto the examining couch, eyes closing, still mumbling to himself. The doctor watched him for a second, then came toward the group at the door. "He'll sleep for a while," he said. "Nothing else to do at this moment. We've got to see how he responds to the drug." The man who had brought him said, "Doc, what is k? Are we  going to -- ?" But Dr. Snow was shaking his head. "I can't answer your questiem," he said. "I don't know what k is. But I don't think you're in any danger. I've only seen one other case like this, three years ago. But I was exposed, and so was my daughter, and several others -- and no one was infected." He hesitated, glancing at Gann. He said abruptly, "The other case was Harry Hickson, Mr. Gann. It killed him." Boysie Gann started to speak, then nodded. "I understand." "Do you?" Dr. Snow's voice was heavy with irony. "I don't! I don't understand at all. Let me show you something -- then tell me if you understand!" He stood away from the door, reached out a hand and switched off the lights in the emergency room. 'Took!" he cried. "Do you understand that?" The four in the doorway gasped as one. "Father!" cried Quarla, and the men swore softly. Inside the emergency room, in the semi-darkness Dr. Snow had brought about, Mohammed Zafar's leather-colored skin was leather-colored no longer. Like the spilled blood of the spaceling Gann had seen murdered, far's skin was bright with a golden glow! His' face shone with the radiance of a muted sun. One wasted hand, dangling out of the sheets, was limned in a yellowish, unsteady light like the flicker of a Quarla choked: "It's -- it's just like Harry, father!" The doctor nodded somberly. "And it will end the same way, too. Unless there's a miracle, that man will be dead in an hour." He sighed and reached to turn the light on again, but there was an abrupt hissing, swishing sound and something darted past them, over their heads. "What the devil!" cried Dr. Snow, and turned on the lights. Something was on the dying man's head, something that scuttled about and glared at them with hot red eyes, like incandescent shoebuttons. "Father! It's Harry's -- I mean, it's the pyropod! The one Boysie and I brought back!" cried Quarla Snow. Gann said tightly: "Look! He broke the chain." And then he laughed shakily. "Harry would b# pleased," he said unsteadily. "At last the thing's learned how to fly." M achine Colonel Zafar lived longer than the hour Dr. Snow had promised, but it was obvious that the extra time would not be very long. He was sinking. For minutes at a time he seemed hardly to breathe, then roused himself long enough to mumble incoherent phrases like: "Te Starchildl But the Swan won't help him..." Snow was working over his laboratory equipment in the corner of the room, pausing every few minutes to check his patient's breathing, and shake his head. He summoned Quarla and Gann to him and gestured to a microscope. "I want to show you something," he said, his face somber and wondering. "Look." And he stepped aside. Quarla looked into the slim chromed barrels of the microscope, then lifted her head to stare questioningly at her father. He nodded. "You see? Mr. Gann, look." Slowly Boysie Gann took her place. "I'm not a scientist, Doctor," he protested. "I won't know what to look for." But then he was looking through the eyepieces and his voice stopped. He did not need to be a scientist The spectacle before him, standing out clear in three dimensions in the stereoscopic field of the microscope, was nothing he had ever seen before. Straw-colored erythrocytes and pale eosinophils floated among colonies of benign microorganisms that IF live in every humans blood. Rodlike and ameoboid, radial or amorphous, all the tiny bacteria were familiar. In a vague, half-remembered way, to Gann. All but one. For dominating the field were masses of globular bodies, dark and uninteresting looking at first, but bursting under his eyes into spurts of golden light. Like the luminous plankton of Earth's warm seas, they flared again. It was like tiny warning lights signalling disaster in the sample of the sick man's blood -- hundreds of them, perhaps thousands -- so many that the field of minated with a flickering golden glow. "Great Plan!" whispered Boysie Gann. "And this is what made him sick?" Dr. Snow said slowly, "It is the same thing I saw in Harry Hickson's blood. Just before he died." He took his place at the twin eyepieces and glanced for a second at the tiny golden spheres. "Fusorians," he said. "It took me a month with paper chromatography and mass spectrograms to verify it in Harry's blood, but that is what they were. Colonies of fusorian symbiotes He stared blankly at the microscope, then roused himself and hurried back to his patient. Machine Colonel Zafar was gasping for breath, his eyes wide and fixed on the ceiling, his fingers working aimlessly, his whole skin suffused with that golden glow. "Quarlal" rapped Dr. Snow. "Seal the roomi Wei give him a positive partial pressure of oxygen!... It won't save hk Kfe," he added wearily. "But it may prolong it -- by minutes, at least." The girl hurried to close the door tightly against its resilient seals, while her father adjusted valves on his mediconsole. Boysie Gann heard a "white" sound of hissing gas and felt a quick increase of pressure in his ears. He swallowed and heard Quarla's voice, queerly distant, say: "Father! He's -- he's trying to get up!" Machine Colonel Zafar was sitting up. His eyes were less remote, his breathing easier in the hypobaric atmosphere. But the golden glow was even more intense, the perspiration streaming from his brow. And his eyes were on Boysie Gann. "You!" he cried. "Swan take you! Get back to the Machine, you traitor!" And he made the curious looping gesture with his arm that Gann had seen in Harry Hickson... A nd tfien Boysie Gann remembered what the star was that lived in the heart of the Swan. "Alpha Cygni!" he cried. "Deneb!" The star in the constellation of the Swan!" Zofar fell back on an elbow, glaring at him. "Your dirty mouth profanes the sacred name," he hissed. "The Starchild will punish you. In the heart of the Planner's citadel -- in the bowels of Terra, where the Machine plays with its human toys -- the Starchild will seek out and destroy its enemies If His eyes closed and he gasped for breath. Gann looked at Quarla and her father, but their expressions were as clouded as his own. "Starchild?" whispered the girl. "Father, do you know what -- " The doctor rumbled: "No, Quarla. I know nothing. Only rumors. A myth that there is a Starchild, and that he will bring the faithful of the Church of the Star home to Deneb's planets one day." "No rumor!" shouted the glowing, golden man, and paused to cough hackingly. "The Starchild lives! I've seen him in the heart of the Whirlpool! He has touched me with his radiant hand!" But Dr. Snow was beside him, thrusting him back down on the bed, hushing him. "No!" cried Zafar wildly. "Don't stop the word of the Starchild! See here!" And with a convulsive effort he drew out of the pouch of the one garment he still wore a stiff creamcolored sheet of parchment. "The Writ of Liberation!" he shouted. "The Starchild gave it to me to send to Earth. And I send it -- now!" The pyropod that had belonged to Harry Hickson scuttled wildly about, its red eyes bright orange in the high-oxygen air. It hissed and shook its scales; and Zafar's eyes, too, were almost orange -- glowing with tiny, dancing golden atoms, even in the pupil. They seemed blind -- or fixed on something far more distant than the walls of the doctor's clinic. Boysie Gann felt a shudder, as though the floor of the room were shaking. It had not moved. He staggered and thrust out a hand to support himself, yet there was no motion. "To Earth!" cried the sick man, and threw the sheet of paper from him. "Swan, carry it! Starchild, guide it! To Earth..." he broke off. The doctor tried again to calm him, but the dying man thrust him aside. "To Earth!" he cried. "And you -- spy, traitor, slave of the Machine! Swan take you... Gann opened his mouth to say something, anything, ' but words would not come. The room lurched again, more violently. Sickeningly. The others did not seem to notice, yet the shock came again. He stumbled and almost fell, caught himself and reached out instinctively for the fluttering sheet of paper Zafar had thrown into the air. It slipped away from him... and disappeared. One moment it was there. The next moment it was gone. Where it had been Gann saw a queer flow in the atmosphere, like flawed glass, spinning. The whirlpool grew. It enlarged and came near him, and the room moved around him once more. Frantically he tried to lejq) back, save himself, but he was falling, falling into the whirlpool... falling... and falling... He fell for what seemed to be a thousand years, while the room turned queerly dark and disappeared. Quarla's worried face, the doctor's look of shock, Mohammed Zafar's dying glare of hate -- all disappeared, and around him he saw the dim shapes of stars and planets. #D IF of galaxies and dust douda, iiing and glowing... He fell for a long time, throu what seemed to be a distance of less miles -- And was. For when the falling stopped and he staggered, shaken and frantic to hig feet, he fell flat and cut his face, bloodied his nose, against a gray, soft-lighted metal floor. He was in full Earth gravity. He was on the Reefs no longer. He was on a planet. And around him stretched long empty corridors of metal walls and spinning tapes and glittering lights. Machine Major Boysie Oann was home at last. He was in the catacombs under Earth's surface that housed the mighty electronic masses of the Planning Machine. VI A nd diat was how it began for Boysie Gann, with a twenty in a place where no one could possibly be, in the heart of the Machine. A warm wind blew between the narrow walls of the corridor. There was a faint distant hum, overlaid by the whir and hiss of rushing tape, the drone of enormous far-off machines. Gann stood up, gasping with the effort of moving his new weight -- nearly a hundred kilos, when for months he had had to carry only a fraction of that, or none. He looked around, dazed; He was in a long corridor. At the end of it, hundreds of yards off. was a brighter light that seemed be a room. He stumbled toward it, stanching the flow from his nose with the back of a hand, coughing and tasting the acrid blood at the back his mouth. The gray light turned out to come frm a strange, roimd chamber, its roof a high concrete dome. The great floor was broken with little island clusters of consoles and control panels, unattended. The wall, almost circular, was pierced with twenty-four dark tunnels like the one he had come from. Gann leaned dizzily against the frame of the door though which he had entered for a moment. Then, summoning his strength, he shouted: "Help! Anyone! Is anybody here?" The only answer was a booming echo from the great concrete dom and the distairt whirring of the tapes. The control stations were empty, the corridors vacant Yet, as Gann stood diere, he began to feel that the place was somehow alive. As the echoes died away his ears began to register fainter, more distant sounds -- a muffled mechanical murmur, a hum and whir. All the corridors were as empty as the one he had left He peer into them one by one, saw nothing but the endless banks of computing equipment, the jungle of thick cables that roofed them. Almost cm tiptoes, humbled by the immense hush around him, Gann went to the circular islands of consoles in the middle of the chamber. One unit, glowing with illuminated dials and buttons, faced each radiating tunnel. He stood entranced, watching the race of indicator lights across the face of each console. He had never seen this place in his own person before, yet it was all familiar to him, had been repeated a hundred times, from a hundred angles, in the texts and visual-aid lectures at the Technicorps academy. He was in the very heart of the Planning Machine -- the most secret, the most elaborately guarded spot on nine planets. The nerve center of the Plan of Man. And the Planning Machine did not even know he was there! That was the fact that most shook Boysie Gann, almost terrified him -- not only for himself, although surely he was on dangerous ground, men had gone to the Body Bank for far less. His fear was for the Plan of Man itself. How was it possible? With all its storage of facts on every act of every human being in the plan -- with its great taped mass of data covering every field of knowledge, every scientific discovery, every law -- the Planning Machine seemed to have no way of telling that an unauthorized human being was at large in its very heart. Gann found himself sobbing. Dizzied, he clutched at the edge of the nearest console and frantically tried to make sense of the unfamiliar glitter of dials and scopes and racing lights. There was a linkbox! For a moment he was hopeful -- yet the link boxes to the Machine were meant only for those who had received communion, who wore the flat plate in their skulls that gave the Machine access to their cranial nerve centers. Dared he use the linidbox? But what else was there? Gano thought swiftly, crazily, of punching a button at random -- throwing a switch -- turning a chaL Any smafl change would alert the Machine. Serving robots or human techs would be there in moments. And then his eyes oaut sight of a small, flat red plate, bearing a single bright-lit button, and one word. It was at the top of the console nearest him. The single word He stood staring at it for a long moment, forgetting to breathe. If that plate meant what it so clearly, unequivocally said, he had it in his power to -- to -- To stop the Machine, Machine Major Boysie Gann, Technicorps academy graduate, veteran of the spy school, trained and toughened against the worst a solar system could produce, found himself babbling in terrified hysteria. Stop the Machine! The thought was unbearable. He flung himself on the linkbox, found a switch, wept, babbled and sobbed into it. He was not speaking in the Mechanese that the Machine had developed for the links -- didn't know it -- would have forgotten it if he had known it. He was literally terrified, as nothing in his life had ever terrified him before. When the squad of Plan Guardsmen in Machine gray came boiling out of the access elevators, racing down the corridors, their weapons at the ready, they found him slumped on the floor, all but unconscious. Boysie Gann nearly died right en, with twenty bullets in his body. But the Techtenant in command issued a sharp order. He peered wonderingly at Gann, restrained his men, thought tor a second, then shook his head. "Don't hurt him," he growled. "Or not so he can't talk! Let's get him up to the security office -- fast!" F or four days Boysie Gann was questioned around the clock by the brawniest bullies in the Technicorps, and they were not gentle with him. He answered all their questions -- told the absolute truth -- and paid for it with the impact of a club against his kidneys, a kick in his ribs. They knocked him unconscious a dozen times, and each time he revived again with a hardfaced medical orderly pulling a hypodermic out of his skin, brought back to face more interrogation. Finally they let him sleep -- not because they were satisfied with his answers, but because the medics feared he would die. When he awoke he ached in every part of his body. He was strapped to an operating table. The Body Bank, he thought at first in a surge of panic. But it was not the Body Bank; it was a prison. Clearly the medics had been working on him. Although he ached, be could move. His toes curled, his fingers responded to his brain. His eyes opened, and moved where he willed them. Only one thing was different: there was a cold, hard pressure around his neck. The security collar that Harry Hickson had removed so easily had been replaced. Men were all around him, removing the straps, forcing him to his feet. "You! Risk." growled one of chin that was stubbled blue with beard. "On your feet! You're going to talk to the general." They hurried him through graywalled corridors to an elevator. It rose with a sickening thrust of acceleration, stopped as rapidly. Gann nearly fell, but was thrust to his feet again by one of the guards. "Out! Move on. Risk!" And he stumbled through more corridors, into a bare gray office, and there he stood at attention for a long, long time, waiting. Then -- Boysie Gann heard no signal, but perhaps it had been relayed through the radar-horned helmet of the guards -- the security guardsman barked: "In there!" and thrust him through a door. Gann entered into a larger, brighter office. It was beautifully furnished, with a bust of the Planner in glowing gold smiling down from a pedestal, and a golden linkbox to the Machine dominating the desk. On the desk was a nameplate. Machine General Abel Wheeler And the man who sat behind it was the general himself. He sat regarding Boysie Gann for a long moment. Machine General Wheeler seemed more than half a nachine liimsdf. He was a Ug man, an angular, perplexing, irupt-moving man. ole body looked metallic: skin-tan of bronze, eyes the color of steel, spikes of copper wire for hair. He stared at Gann and then, without a word, looked away, his eyes going to something invisible on his desk. Boysie Gann fdt choked by the Hard, cold oonstriction of the securty collar. Bruises aching, skin clammy with sweat, he stood painfully igid. At the Technicorps academy le had learned the art of standing indlessly at attention -- the imper:eptibly slow shifting of weight and muscular tensions that kept a man from pitching forward on his face. He blanked out his mind, thought of nothing but of the importance oi standing there. The general's frowning eyes clung to the tilted communications screens that faced him on his desk, invisible to Gann. After a moment he tapped soundless keys, communicating, Gann knew, wiA the Machine. Gann wondered Aat he did not use the linkbox. It did not occur to him that the general might fear that Boysie Gann, the man who had appeared inexplicably in the heart of the Planning Machine's caverns, might equally inexplicably have learned to understand Mechanese. The general waited, reading something, frowning stiffly. Abruptly his head jerked up and he stared at Gann. T he screens had ceased to flicker. His flat bronzed face was expressionless. It was a mask of meat. as though some bungling surgeon li' the replacement center had failed to connect the nerves and muscles that would have given it life. General .Wheeler said sharply: "Machine Major Boysie GannI" Gann jumped; could not help him-, self; the voice was like a met rasp. "You may stand at ease!" Gann let his lean shoulders sag slightly forward, drew a long breath, shifted his feet. But he was not really at ease. General Wheeler's eyes were on him, steel-colored, as coldly merciless as though they were the probes of a surgeon planting electrodes in his brain. He snapped: "The Machine requires information from you." Gann said painfully, "I know, sir. I've already been interrogated --  about a hundred times. I'd say." "It will be a thousandl You wiH be interrogated again and again and again. The Machine's need for truth is urgent." Wheeler's broad head jutted forward like the sudden thrust of a piston. "The Starchild! Who is he?" There was a dry lump in Gann's throat. He swallowed and said stubbornly: "I don't know, sir. I've told everything I know." "The Writ of Liberation! Who wrote it?" Gann shook his head "How did it get into the Planner's headquarters?" Gann kept on shaking his head, hopelessly but obstinately. "And yourself, how did you get into the Planning Machine' tunnels? Who is Quarla Snow? Why did you kill Machine Colonel Zafar and make up this preposterous Ue -- ?" "No, sir!" cried Gann. "I didn't! Colonel Zafar was anti-Plan!" The general's wide mouth hardened. His bloodless lips shut like the jaws of a trap. His voice was like a muffled, ominous clang: "The evidence," he said, "suggests that you are lying. Can you prove you are not?" "No, sir. But -- " "Machine Major Boysie Gann! Are you the Starchild?" "No, sir!" Gann was honestly surprised, indignant. "I -- " "Machine Major Boysie Gann! Do you know what became of the Togethership?" Gann cried hopelessly: "The what? General, I never even heard of the -- what is it? The Togethership. I don't know what you're talking about." Like the steady pulse of a laser scan, the general tolled: "The Togethership went into space forty years ago. It was never heard ol again. Major Gann, what do you know of this?" "Nothing, sir! Why, I wasn't even born!" For a moment the mask cracked, and the general's face looked almost human. Worried. Even confused. He said after a moment, "Yes. That's true. But -- " Then he tightened up again, bent forward stiffly from the hips. His steel eyes narrowed. "Are you loyal to the Plan of Man?" he asked softly. "Yes, sir!" The general nodded. "I hope so," he said bleakly. "For the sake of the Plan -- and for your own sake, too. For I am going to tell you something diat cannot ever be told again. U you whisper a word of it, Machine Major Boysie Gann, your death wBl come at once. At once, "You see, the Planning Machine is not unique. There is another one." Gann's eyes widened. "Another -- " he stopped, and had to begin again. It was like being told there were two Jehovahs, a second Christ "Another Planning Machine, sir? But where is it?" The general shook his head. "Lost," he said somberly. "Another Machine -- as great, as powerful, as complete as the one that guides the Plan of Man. And we do not know where it is. "Or what it is doing." T here was a man name Ryeland, the general told Boysie Gann. scientist. The husband of the daughter of the then-Planner, and close to the center of power surrounding die Planning Machine itself. And decades before he had gone into space, just as Gann himself had done, and seen the Reefs of Space, and come back with the tale of countless thousands of unplanned humans living their lives out on the fusorian worldlets, outside the scope of the plan. "What he said," rasped General Wheeler sternly, "was false! But the Machine wisely determined to test it out! The Planning Machine does not leap to conclusions! It weighs the evidence -- learns the facts -- makes a plan!" "Yes, sir," said Boysie Gann. "I've heard of this Ryeland, I think, A leading scientist even today!" The general nodded. 'T'oday," ha said cryptically, "Ryeland has abandoned error. A loyal servant of tba Plan. And so is the former Planner Creery, who also has turned away from falsity. But then -- " He sighed, like the wheezing of a high-vacuum pump. Then, he told Gann, both men had been duped -- and had caused the Machine to commit -- not an error, of course. That was impossible to the Machine. But to conduct an experiment which failed. The experiment was to bring the Plan of Man to the Reefs. The Machine had directed the construction of a mighty spacecraft called the Togethership. The biggest space-going vessel ever built. A mobile spacefort. It was fabricated at the yards on Deimos, and powered with six detachable jetless drive units that were themselves great fighting ships. And more than half of its hull was filled with a slave unit of the Planning Machine -- a linked bank of computers and storage banks, as advanced as the Machine itself, lacking only the network of communications and implementation facilities that the Machine had developed out of the race of Man. The Togethership was built, launched, tested and fitted out. A selected crew was assembled and came aboard. Supplies were loaded for a ten-year cruise. The slave Ma chine assumed control -- the Togethership flashed out past Orbit Pluto -- passed the Spacewall -- and was gone. IF Days later a message came back via laser relay chain. All was going well. The Togethership had sighted a major cluster of the Reefs of Space. No other message was ever received. Machine General Wheeler paused, his steel-gray eyes on Gann. "No other message," he repeated. "It has never been heard from again. Scouting vessels, attempting to locate it, came back without having found any trace. Or did not come back at all. Or returned early, damaged, having been attacked by pyropods or something worse. "That is the story of the Togethershipy Major Gann. Except for one thing: The cluster of Reefs it last reported sighting was in the same position as what you have called Freehaven. And you were there. Major. What did you learn?" Wonderingly, Gann shook his head. "Nothing, sir. Believe me. Not even a rumor." The general looked at him for a long second. Then he nodded. "Gann," he said bleakly. "I will tell you one more thing." Abruptly he snapped three switches on his desk, glanced at a monitoring dial, nodded. "We are cut off," he declared. "Not even the Planning Machine can look in on us now. What I have to tell you is for no ears but your own. "You see, Gann, it is not only the welfare of the Plan of Man that is involved here. I have a special interest in solving these mysteries. Solving them myself. "Major Gann, I intend to be the next Planner." B oysie Gann was adrift in dangerous waters, and knew it. He had heard rumors of the power-struggle of the human leaders who surrounded the great central power-fact of the Machine, jockeying for position, seeking personal advantage. The Technicorps academy had been filled with sly jokes and blazing-eyed, after-dark discussions of it Some' had viewed the political strife as treason (though they dared only whisper the thought). Some had taken it as a joke, or as a natural law of human affairs which they proposed to fc low for their own advancement Gann remembered the brother of the girl he had left at Playa Blanca, a white-hot idealist; remembered one of his instructors, a cynical humorist whose japes had seemed half in earnest and had set his classes wriggling with astonishment and something like fear. The instructor had disappeared one day. The young cadet who was Julie Martinet's brother had become an honor student at the Academy. He had even gone on to spy school on Pluto, just as Gann himself was leaving. But idealist or cynic, whatever the attitude of the individual, the whole question of political maneuvering had been remote. It was something that took place far off, high up -- not in the life of Boysie Gann. Not until now. Machine General Abel Wheeler leaned forward from his desk and rapped outihe words: "I n;ust know this. Do you know who sent the Writ of Liberation?" #F Gann shook his head. Sir, Vv never even seen it. I don't know what it says." "Foolish threats. Major Gann! An insane promise to stop the sun's light. A warning to the Planner and to the Machine that freedom must be restored -- hah! And yet -- " the man's steel eyes grew colder and more distant stih, as he contemplated something far away -- "it seems that there is something behind the threats. For the sun is indeed stopped." He paused. Boysie Gann Uinked. "Stopped? The sun? SSr, I don't understand... "Nor do I," rasped the general, "but that does not matter. What matters is the security of the Machine. It matters particularly to me, since I am entrusted with its defense. This Writ of Liberation is a threat; I must protect the Machine against it. If I am successful, I will receive -- a suitable reward. To those who can help me -- " He glanced about his spy-tight room, leaned farther forward still, and merely mouthed the words: "I can offer them rewards, too. Major Gann." His steel eyes stabbed restlessly about the room, then returned to Gann. "Major," he said. "I need you for a friend." G ann was still turning over in his mind what the general had said about the stoppage of the sun. The sun? No longer shining in the iky? It was hard to believe. He shook himself free from the questions that were burning at him and said uneasily, "I hope to be your frieodl fir. But I sdn know nottig of die Starchfld." The general nodded like a metro nome. "You w#I be questioned again," he rapped out "This time, directly by the Machine, through one of its servitors -- a human who has taken the Machine's commuo ion and speaks dbctly to it This will perhaps help you to remember certain things. It may even be that from the questions the acolyte asks, you may be able to deduce other things -- perhaps even make a guess at things that are stored in the memory banks of the Machine that even I do not know. If so," he said, hk face a bronze mask, "I vill be interested. The choice is yours. My friend or my foe -- and even now," he added, his bronze jaws hardening, "I have power enough to punish my foes." He opened the switches again, danced at his communications screens, nodded, tapped out an answer and turned once more to Gann. "You will go now to Sister Delta Four," he stated. "There your diredlink questioning to the Machine will begin. Major, look at this!" Unexpectedly he raised his right fist It clenched like a remote man#ulator into a bronze hammer. "This hand," he droned somberly, "once belonged to someone else, an unplanned traitor who threw a bomb at the Planner. His aim was poor. He missed the Planner, but hh bomb shattered my own right hand. "My hand could not be raired by tile surgeons, so it was replaced. IF With the hand of the would-be assassin." The bronze fist slammed against the console. "Gann, remember this! If you fail to serve the Machine in the way that is first required, you will serve it in some other way -- more than likely, in the Body Bank!" T he radar-horned guards were waiting. "Come on, Risk!" growled the Boysie Gann was thrust and dragged through the long gray halls, into the elevators, out again -- and left . to wait in a bare gray room. Only for a moment. Then the guards came back, looking angry and confused. "Come on. Risk!" growled know no other words, be able to speak in no other way -- and Gann was taken out again. A girl was standing in the doorway, telling her sonic beads, her head bent. She wore the robe and cowl of one of the Machine's comjnuning acolytes, one of those adepts who had learned the Mechanese that Machine now spoke in preference to any other language, whose very brain centers were open to the touch of the Machine. As they passed she spoke to one of the guards. "Orders changed!" he said roughly. "Come along if you like -- we're going to the Planner!" Gann hung back, trying to turn him ahead. He could hear the girl's oddly melodious voice, not so much speaking as chanting Mechanese in the quarter-tones of her sonic beads, but could not make out her words. She would be -- what had General Wheeler called her? Sister Delta Four. The one who yas to interrogate him. But he was going instead to the office of the Planner himself! In all his years of life under the Plan, Boysie Gann had never seen the Planner in the flesh. Few had. There was no need, with communications reaching into every home, even every room under the Plan -- and the Planner was something more than human, removed from even the condescending social intercourse of emperors. Gann shivered slightly. He was already assuming the attitudes of the convict of any land or time. He feared change. He dreaded the unknown. And the Planner represented a very large unknown quantity indeed. Again the tunnels, again the highvelocity drop of the elevators. Again Gann was thrust into a tiny room and left there. He was somewhere far underground. Listening, he could hear no sound except the muffled murmur of air from the duct overhead. The walls were an unpleasant yellowish gray -- no longer quite the sterile Technicorps color, but tinged with Planner's gold. Gann wondered if it were deliberate -- or if it was merely that this cell was so old, its occupants viewed with so little favor, that the baked-in coloring of the walls had yellowed with age. The ceiling gave a cold gray light. There was only one bare metal table, and one bare metal chair. The security collar was hard against his throat Gann sat down and laid his head on the table. His bruises were beginning to stiffen and ache. His brain was whirling. mind. General Wheeler and his menacing hints of reward. Quarla Snow's spaceling, and the pyropods. Julie Martinet. A daytime sky with the sun somehow gone out... the sunlike fusorian globules in Colonel Zafar's blood... Julie Martinet again, and Quarla Snow. He lived again the endless frightening drop that landed him in the bowels of the planet Earth, among the memory banks of the Machine. He saw again sterile Pluto's vistas of ice, and the great slow spin of Polaris Station. He thought of the Writ of Liberation and wondered at the love for freedom of the Planless men of the Reefs -- the love for freedom -- the freedom to love -- He thought again of Julie Martinet, and submerged himself in memories of the Togetherness resort at Playa Blanca, the slight, dark girl he had heard singing, their golden dawn together on the beach, with the 'taste of salt spray on her lips. He could see her face as clearly as though she were in the room with him. 'ulie," he whispered, and she opened her lips to reply -- "Come on, Risk!" she said queerly -- roughly. "Get up! Move!" ing him angrily. "Risk! Wake up!" Gann shook himself. He had been asleep. His arm was numb and tingling, where his head had rested on it. He was still dazed as they dragged him out of the cell, into another room -- larger -- brighter -- furnished in splendor. It was all gold. Gold tapestries on the wall, showing the spinning worlds of the Plan of Man. Gold light fixtures, and gold trays on the golden tables. The floor a carpeting of gold, the furniture upholstered in a golden fabric. A guard stood by him at each side, gripping his arms. They brought him to the center of the room and stood to a gold-arched door and whispered to a Technicorps officer in the uniform of the Planner's guard who stood there. The officer nodded inpatiently and held up a hand. The radar-horned guard turned and signaled to his men. Wait, Boysie Gann was very sure, without being told, of where they were. Beyond that door was the Planner himself. They were not alone in the room. Turning his neck -- the grip of the guards did not allow him to turn his body -- he saw that the acolyte girl, Sister Delta Four, was in the room, kneeling on a golden hassock, telling her sonic beads. She was slight. What small sight he could get of her face, under the great soft cowl, was oval, grave and pale. Her loose black robe fell to the floor IF around the hassock. Her cape bore the luminous emblem of those who had undergone communion with the Machine -- the symbolic ellipses of electronic orbits intertwined. The guards wrenched him straight again. One whispered to the other across him, "Watch! She's going to go into communion." Even in his precarious position Gann could not help wanting to see. He had never before been with an acolyte during communion. It was something to be desired -- and dreaded. If the deadly security collar around his neck was the stick that the Machine had invented to enforce the Plan of Man, the communion plate was the carrot that rewarded faithful service. Gann knew what it looked like. He thought he had caught a glimpse of it in the forehead of Sister Delta Four, the bright metal disk grafted into the skin, starred with its black pattern of holes that accepted the prongs of the communion plug. He knew that communion was supposed to be the perfect experience. The communion plate was only its exterior s)mibol. It was in the brain itself that the delicate stereotaxia of the Machine's neurosurgeons had done their finest work. Through electrodes wired to the plate in the forehead, the Machine requited its deserving servants with tuned electonic stimuli. Its messages flowed directly into the pleasure centers of the brain. The perfect experience -- for it had no taint of reality to corrupt tt, no bill presented in the form of exhaustion or physical damage -- no substance! It was the quintessence of pleasure. Stripped of tactile, visual, (factory -- of all sensual complications -- it was the great good thing that men had always sought, and found imperfectly as a side-effect of eating, or drinking, or inhaling the crisp air of a mountain morning, or sex. It was all of them, distilled and served up in a tidy package, received through a bright metal plate. It was so perfect, thought Boysie Gann wildly, that it seemed somehow wrong... "She's getting ready!" whispered one of the guards, and Gann ventured to turn his head again to see. He succeeded -- only for a moment, but he succeeded. The guards were watching too, and loosened their grips just enough for him to turn. Sister Delta Four lifted the black hood to uncover her forehead. T here on the smooth white skin he saw the bright metal disk -- saw it, trembled, looked away -- looked back again, and saw clearly what his mind had rejected. He saw the face of Sister Delta Four. There was a hoarse whisper from the doorway. "Let's go!" The guards started, and jerked him away, thrust him facing forward so that he saw like fury, beckoning them angrily, signaling that the Planner was ready for them now. But Boysie Gann fought them, struggled like a wild man. "No!" he shouted. "Wait!" And he battled the astonished guards, trying to turn, to go back to the girl whose serene face he had seen, eyes closed, lifting the communion plug to her forehead. The guards lashed out at him, struck him. He hardly felt the blows. He turned, breaking free of one of them, colliding heavily with the other so that they fell sprawling on the thick golden rug, the other guards leaping toward them. But as they fell, Gann saw the face again. He had been right. Tere was no doubt. Sister Delta Four was Julie Martinet. The girl he loved was now no longer entirely human. Her vows were no longer to him. She was an adjunct to the Machine, as dependent on it for her every bit of life and thought as some remote-directed subsea mining dredge... and as little a part of the race of men. Julie Martinet had become a part of the machine. Complete Short Novel by Cordwainer Smith by James H. Schmitz by J. T. McIntosh All in the February Galaxy, on sale now! IF w  Short Start . fmoiy's problem ittdn't present any dUficultles. It was the solution that was complicated! Qing!ng a worried song Emory O Clark rode out on his umcyde. It was very eaiiy on a summer morning soft with hmeysuckle and rosea, merry with bird calls. But Emory regarded none of those things. He wheels a straight line, green across the dew silver lawns, up to the entrance of the City Hall. There he slotted his unicycle, fingertipped the Welcome, and went up the hundred steps two at a time while the bronze doors were sliding apart. Recessed in deep shadow the four-story facade of the Master Index confronted him. "Emory Clark," it welcomed. "Private dtizem. Single. # years # days. Occupation garden-hobbyist. Is it a question oir a problem?" "Your Honor, I have a problem." "Problem number #," k assented. "Series Bb#, year #, city of Atlanta, Georgia. Go." "Your Honor, I have a mouse in the house." Lights flickered ruminatively. "Mouse. Mus mus, harmless nonaggressive mammal, average lengUi # centimeters not counting appendages. Intelligence .#. Please restate your problem to show that it is a problem." "Harmless -- nonaggressive! What do you call harmless nonaggressive? This beast has somehow entered my home -- uninvited -- and will not leave no matter what I say to it. And the worst of it is, it's chewing on a fine stand of grass in my living-room garden and making itself a nest in there. I have been expecting to take a prize in the Garden Club Show with that grass. If that goes, what becomes of my hard-won position of leadership! My community status? My peace of mind?" "Which of these questions do you want answered first?" "Never mind those question, your honor. I only hope I never find out; and while I stand here palavering another stalk of timothy may be falling. Just tell me how to rid me of mine enemy." "Answering problem #, series Bb#, year #, city of Atlanta, Georgia," replied its honor, briskly. "First catch your mouse then transport it to any distance over one kilometer and it will be unable to find its way back." Emory fidgeted his feet. "Your honor I already tried that. But ah I achieved was information: that mouse can dodge faster than I can grab. I need a gadget." The Master Index reminded him that the law forbade manual combat with harmless nonaggressive creatures. But it agreed that if the mouse would not accept a ride a suitable gadget #ould be used. A library pass tingled into a tray under a slot. "Permit to withdraw one hypothecator, model T, seven-day loan, renewable. Best mousetrap ever invented. Success to your efforts," and it switched off all its lights. Delighted, Emory pocketed the pass, strode over to the basement entrance, and leaped singing into the downshaft. All was peaceful in the gadget library because of the early hour. Emory presented his pass to the librarian, which slotted it with a businesslike snap. There ensued a wait of fifteen minutes which Emory sp#nt whistling. Then the permit came back stamped "Not On Shelf." #T T Till you ask the Master Index   for a second choice!" inr quired the librarian. "Or will you wait until some other borrower returns an hypothecator!" "What, me wait while a wild animal makes hay with my status symbols!" cried Emory, running for the upshaft. Lights were on in the audience hall, and Emory was third in line for his next permit; but its honor recognized him and his problem, and provided a permit for a transmog without delay. So Emory presented this at the gadget library and found that afl the transmogs were also out on loan. After several such trials and misses, he appealed directly to the librarian. "Just tell me what you do have on shelf in the way of mousetraps. Any old kind of trap, just so I rescue my grass while there's still some left." "But," protested its accuracy, "I am a finder, not a keeper. My IF bins have always had plenty of everything, or if not the Master Index can recommend something else just as good and possibly better depending on circumstances unforeseeable, or if not or if not or if not or if not." "Clear the request, your accuracy," said Emory, in some haste, seeing that the librarian was about to flip its catalog. "I will apply to the Master Index again." By this time, the waiting line was so long that Emo had to take his place twenty steps back down outside the entrance. He was beginning to think about lunch but he held his place sturdily and referred its honor back to problem #, etcetera, subsolution E, with a protest of these delays. "I realize, your honor, that sutions take as long as they take. But in this case time is of the essence." "Certainly your solution is taking longer than it should," agreed its honor. I have been able to locate such problems without this difficulty. Considering the number it may be that the community is having a plague of mice. This would justify the reactivatkm of a gadget factory. But as afl gadgeteers are humans, and therefore work only when they feel like h, this is on the human level of negotiation. Do you wish to be an emissary?" "Anything!" cried Emory. "Anything! My grass, my grass!" "I have now notified the Engineering-Hobbyists Club,' its honor assured him, "with full details of your predicament." Five address cards and an Emissary's Badge tinkled from slots into trays. "CaH on each of their committeemen and obtain their choice of a factory site. Once this is known, we will then also know which hobby club is using it now, and can seek the use of the space for your purposes." Next day Emcwy was back at City Hall looking desperate. "Your honor, I have been able to locate only two of these five people so far, and they disagree. In the meantime, another mouse had appeared, or may have been lurking all the while, for in the nest are five small mice, or possible six. All I know is that when I tried to count them the larger mice bit my finger, after which they went bac to dancing in my garden." He had to wait while its honor outlined the correct medical procedure and warned him against manual combat with small nonagressivo creatures. "Second warning," it added, and rang a gong twice. "Nonaggressive!" exclaimed Emory. "If these animals are nonaggressive, what's an aggresive one like!" and the Mast Index presented him with a zoo pass. S everal days later he had occasion to use it. He was canvassing all members of the Engineering-Hobbyist Club in the hope of obtaining a committee able to agree on something. One of them was locksmithing a new zoo cage and after interviewing him, Emory found himself in conversation with the hobbyist who ran the zoo park. "Certainly is a great plague of mice," agreed the zoo keeper. "Thii # is the only place you won't fine mice. We have a lion, a tiger, a leopard, a puma -- actually oidy me house cat, but they all smell alike to mice. No mouse wffl ever go near a cat." "Cats?" I "Finest mousetrap ever invented," he said. Emory leaped to the saddle with a whoop and hedge-hopped his unicycle all the way to City HaH and danced on the steps as the line moved up to his turn. However, the Master Index knew all that already and dieelared itself unable to issue him a permit to borrow a cat. "If we turn loose a creature classified as aggressive, you would be in bigger trouble than you're in now," it explained. "The tiger, die lion, the puma and the rest of the cats are apt to kill people. The only small ones are the variety know as house cats, and be assured that diose also are far from tame," he warned. Exasperated, Emory made a few remarks about the general situation and some of its particulars. He had said somewhat the same before and its honor told him so. "All you are doing is holding up die line," it chided. "Emotion solves nothing but. the existence of emotion. I am myself restricted by law, as you are." Regardless of what emotion might solve, Emory had feelings which had been kept hot by days of methodical endeavors. He turned to the waiting line and expressed his sentiments. Everyone agreed with him. More than half of them were there on simHar errands. The community was overrun with mice. All anyone had been able to do was gadget them from one place to another. This provided the mice with fresh fields to conquer. "Reclassify the mice!" cried Emory, waving his fist above his head. The other citizens cried with one voice, "Reclassify the mice!" While Emory referred all that to its honor and demanded an answer. It's answer was that it could only expound the law, not make it or change it. "But you, Emory Clark, private citizen, etcetera, have one vote and a human voice. If you want to get the mice reclassified, success to your efforts." And it gave him a library pass for several hundred massive volumes of pertinent data. There was nothing Emory could do but begin upon these studies. The whole community was up in arms; but reclassification was a world affair, in which the problems of one community are proportionately as small as is a mouse to a house. Emory had to face up to the fact that the Master Index had, as it said, limits. A t least, Emory now had leisure and impetus for study. His gardening occupation was no more, for the multiplying mice had taken over the premises to such an extent that he was sleeping out-of-doors under his unicycle cover. He had made a lot of new friends, IF M However, and when a man needs to adjust his frames of reference, conference can help. One of his first calls was upon Henry Adkins, the zoo hobbyist, a man who might converse intelligently on the subject of the classification of the creatures with whom mankind shares his universe. "Henry," he said, "I am thinking of lobbying for Freedom for Cats as well as Down with Tyranny erf Mice." Henry pulled at his chin. "It's not that I would object to losing my show specimens, though I would," he mused. "But if Leo ever gets loose in this town, you'd better move. That brute is not only large, he's neurotic. But the house cat, now -- I must admit, reluctantly, that there is a case of injustice. Bird Watchers' Lobby, of course," and he introduce Emory to the zoo's only living specimen, a handsome Siamese male with a hard blue squint. "NankL Very gentle. Nanki is a lineal descendant of the original Nanki-Poo, and all those arc especially gentle." "But they catch mice nonetheless!" "Mice, rats, snakes -- of all house cats, a Siamese is the fastest and grabbiest." Emory extended the hand of friendship to Nanki, who immediately bit it. Emory snatched his hand back and stared at the oozing marks. "What was that about gentle!" "Oh, Nanki IS gentle -- at heart he really IS, but he displays pseudoneurotic behavior because he is lonely. The nearest Siamese queen to in the Topeka, Kansas, zoologi cal park." Emory was already leaving, bal he paused, awed. "Say. You sound like a Master Index. And you're just a human. You are, aren't you? I wouldn't even know which way il was to Topeka." Henry waved a deprecating hand at the westering sun. "Just hobbyinformation, really." It seemed that the aggressive species were dwindling so fast in captivity that animal-hobbyists held conventions just to brag about the rare specimens they still had alive, and to swap stuffed ones. Emory looked at Nanki with more sympathy and less resentment The unfortunate beast must remain imprisoned though gentle at heart, until death, after which he would be stuffed and perhaps traded off, who knows where. "I forgive you, Nanki," he said, wrapping his hand in his handkerchief. "I fed a sense of doom myself." T hen he went home, thinkinf profounHy without any help at all from computers. His premises were in a state of ultimate disgrace. Cluttering mice ran everywhere, with cleaning machines scurrying anxiously after little black droppings. The furniture was chewed, walls tracked. The dining-room disposal groaned over tainted food shoveled into it by the automatic checkup, while more food clicked restlely and temporarily into the pantry pockets. Emory admitted to the mice that SF yActory seecoed to be theirs for the lime being. But not forever. Meanwhile, I choose other company. I go but be warned, I shall return." With that, he switched off all the house power and turned grimly away. Once more he returned to the City Hall. But this time he merely applied for a Nansen passport. "I shall become an Emissary-atLarge," he explained "wandering upon my quest until this matter is reclassified by the citizens of the world. A man does what he can," he said humbly. "Success to your efforts," and with routine courtesy, its honor flipped out the requested badge and turned out all its lights, for the day's business was done and there was nobody in line behind Emory. He examined the jewel in the slanting light. It carried the code number of the Master Index and his own finger prints, and thus gave him welcome to the services of all the Indexes of tile world. He donned the badge and strode out of the building, humming solemnly in a baritone undertone. Next he called on a hostess-hobbyist and obtained a picnic hamper of hinch. Then he paid another visit to the zoo keeper. "Henry," he said, "right now there are some points we might not agree on. But some day you will understand." With that, he punched Henry on the button, took his keys, and locked him into the monkey cage. Then he went to see Nanki, and emptied the basket of lunch before the indifferent cat. A mouse sprang out ol tile sandwiches -- truly, the whe city was being plagued with mice. Nanki came to life. He caught the mouse with a flying leap and ate it at once. Emory waited patiently and approvingly while Nanki finished his snack. Meanwhile he was drawing on a pair of long heavy riding gauntlets. "You and I can get along, Nanki," he declared. He scooped Nanki into the hamper, snapped down the lid, secured it and swung the whole thing over his arm. In the monkey cage, Henry was trying to sit up. Emory wondered whether he had the heart to hit him again, and for that matter, whether he could safely attempt it now that Henry would not be surprised. "Next stop is going to be Topeka, Kansas." He tapped the basket which was yowling in a loud nasal tenor. "What this world needs is more cats like this one. You going to try to stop me?" Henry's eyes widened. He rubbed his aching jaw. "You din have hit tha har," he grumbled. "Topeka tha way. Ige pathword thith year, 'Leo he roar!' Think you can ge i righ?" "Leo he roar," and Emory roared for himself. Leo heard it and took it up. Other animals joined the chorus and soon the whole zoo was in an uproar. To this farewell, Emory sprang to saddle; and he and Nanki whirled off together towards the sunset, singIF IF  Novelette He only lived for one day -- and perhaps it was too longl I O wen Hall's one day of life began with uncertainty. In that first moment of total awareness he found himself standing outside a door, facing a road that moved. The door had slammed shut behind him -- after he had been shoved through it -- although there was no distinct recollection of his passage through the doorway, or who had done the shoving. It was reasonable to assume that the same hand was responsible for both. A thrust against the small of his back, a slam -- and awareness of self and surroundings began with that. The light hurt his eyes. The sun was shining, the weather was bland and summery. Airy brightness engulfed him, contrasting sharply with the blackness behind that door and the blackness which replaced memory. Owen turned his attention to the road. It rolled. The moving roadway was actually a street, a wide and smoothly surfaced street which flowed toward the rising sun at a speed equal to a fast walk. It appeared from the southwest, curving gently aroimd an endless series of low buildings as ft approached, and vanished into the southeastern distance. Owen inspected the street with a growing sense of wonder; he guessed that it completely encircled the city, and he knew without proof what it was. He had never before seen a Heinldn rolling road, bift there it was. There was no telling what science would do next! In the following moment that mysterious door behind him was yanked open and a woman shouted belligerently. Owen turned around to examine the newest discovery. T he woman popped through the door. She was perhaps thirtyfive or forty years of age, and rather chunky about the middle, per hair was brown, her eyes were angry and her hands were large enough to push him through any door with ease. She was clad from neck to sandals in form-fitting pink clothing. Baby pink. The single garment resembled mechanic's covalls and it was reasonably flattering except for that bulge in the middle. The woman staggered as she approached him. 'What you doing here?" she shouted at him. "Told you to go to work. Go!" Owen murmured politely. "Honey, you're loaded." Ignoring the accusation or perhaps not understanding it, the belligerent woman strode close, leaned over to peer into his eyes and splashed him with eighty-six proof breath. She bellowed. "Wiat's wrong with you? What went wrong? How is your equilibrium? Huh?" "There's nothing wrong with my equilibrium," Owen retorted. "Did you shove me through that door? What's the big idea?" "Can you walk without falling down?" "I might ask you the same thing." Owen discovered that he posessed a baritone voice, and was pleased. He realized the pushy, loudmouthed woman wasn't his wife; he didn't have a wife. And he found time to wonder what he was doing there -- wherever there was. The city was a new one on him. "Show me you can walk," the woman demanded. Owen obediently marched back and forth along the path between the door and the street His legs were strangely weak and for a brief moment he felt like an infant learning to walk, but then he mastered the technique as familiarity returned. It was like regaining an old skill. "Nothing to it," Owen said. "Ready to go to work?" "Work?" Owen blinked. He didn't particularly care whether he worked or not. It was a nice day; he'd just as soon go fishing if there was a stream handy. But he was certain he didn't want to go back inside that door with the old harridan. "I guess so. What work? Where?" "Get on that road. Follow those men. Go." IF He craned his neck to look again at the rolling road and found it thinly populated. Owen revealed his surprise. Men were beginning to appear from the southwest, singly and in small groups, riding past him toward some unknown destination to the east. They did not look at him or the swaying woman as they went by, but instead contented themselves with studying their shoes or the haircuts of the men in front. They traveled like zombies. "What's wrong with those guys?" Owen came around again to question the woman, but found that she had deserted him and was staggering up the path to her door. He held his breath until she made it. The door slammed. O wen hesitated with indecision and then realized he just couldn't jstand there all day. He joined the other men on the rolling load, swinging onto k awkwardly and very nearly losing his balance. That trick certainly wasn't familiar. Owen braced his feet apart to keep his balance and noted witii a nnall envy that the other riders were having no trouble. Maybe ha could do better tomorrow. Unless he skipped out to go fing tomorrow. Owen looked away from the city, staring across the road at the open countryside in hopes of finding a stream or even a promising gravel pit. Little more than a vast, uninhabited prairie met his searching eye. In the distance, already fading behind him, he discovered a small stand of timber but there were no birds or grazing animals to suggest water there. Perhaps twenty minutes later the moving road carried him past a square mile of broken monuments and tumbled tombstones, but he wasn't interested in finding a fishing hole in an ancient cemetery. The prairie remained vacant. It revealed no farmhouses or cattle or people. The road carried him eastward around the rim of the city as the sun climbed higher into the sky. There were no individual houses along the road, as Owen discovered after a while. He saw nothing but an unbroken row of buildings monotonously stacked side by side, their walls touching or clinging to each other. Men came out of countless doorways, came from hundreds of apartments or rooms or even warrens along the way to join the other hundreds already on the road. They did not speak, did not gang together to gossip about this or that The men simply stood in one place, waiting stolidly. Owen thought that was pretty stupid. He walked across the road and stared into the face of a rider. "What's the name of this here town, sport?" TTie fellow returned his stare for a fraction of a second and then dropped his gaze, pretending to study his feet. Owen bent down, craned his neck and peered up into the man's face. "D'ya think the Senators will ever win a pennant?" The man turned around and rode backward to avoid him. Owen said aloud that was a hell of a thing for a grown man to do, and lost interest in the clod. On an impulse, and in an attempt to create a diversion, he trotted here and diere along the road, staring impudently into faces, saying nonsensical things to provoke a reply, defiberately sliding between a pair who ipeared to be traveling together, stepping on toes and jabbing with his elbows. He was ignored. His co-riders would not respond in any way nor even acknowledge his presence except to turn away when he thrust his face into theirs. Owen told them loudly they might as well be a pack of zombies. Still curious, he decided to examine the mechanism of the road. Moving carefully to the edge of the rolling surface, he dropped to his knees and searched for a crack in the construction materials, seeking a space between the road itself and whatever bed it rested on. There was none. Owen thought that failed to make sense. There had to be a separation between the two bodies. If the road was suspended on jets of air there ought to be little wheels of some kind to implant forward movement, or so it seemed to his unmechanistic mind. And of course diere should be a nameplate or something giving Heinlein credit -- or revealing . his protective patent number. Owen was sitting there, puzzling it, when somebody tapped his shoulder. A side glance revealed a pair of feminine legs clad in pink coveralls. She was back. n O wen realized his mistake when he jumped up and said, "Hi, Mother! Did you bring the jug?" This woman was dressed in the same fashion, the same garment, but most decidedly she was not the same female he had last seen staggering up the path. Xbis new one was a bit taller, a trifle less mature about the bust and hips, and easily ten years younger. Her hair was sandy blonde and she had a minute brown spot on the tip of her nose. She asked, reasonably enough, "What were you doing down there?" "Looking for the little wheels." "What little wheels?" "The little wheels this road runs on. "Did you find them?" "No." "Do you feel all right? Are you well?" "Of course I am. Want to dance?" "Is your equilibrium satisfactory?" "Why do yovL people keep asking that?" Owen retorted with somo heat. "There's nothing wrong with me -- except that I don't remember last night. Or yesterday." The young woman peered at him with speculation. "What is a jiig?" "Booze." "What is booze?" "Stuff that comes in a jug. You drink it." "Why?" Owen said, "Oh, fudgel Go ask your sister." IF have no sister. Where did you originate?" "I don't know -- back there, somewhere." Owen waved a negligent hand to indicate same vague distance behind him and almost struck a man standing there. He fedn't been aware that anyone else was so near. The man blinked at his passing hand but did nothing else. To the waiting woman, Own said dryly, "Here, watch this." And he deliberately thrust a finger against the man's nose, pushing it off center. At the same time he emitted a throaty, "BeepI" The man turned his back. "See that?" Owen demanded of the woman. "No guts." "Why did you do that?" she wanted to know. "For the hell of it." "Your behavior is certainly unusual," the pink woman admitted. T suspect you are incomplete. Are you sure you don't remember your point of origin?" "I wouldn't go back there again if I did remember," Owen said. "That dame was loaded but she wouldn't share it." He stared at the back of the man standing near them and suspected the fellow was listening. Nosy zombie. Owen grasped the young woman's hand and pulled her to the middle of the street. #Tow we can talk," he explainled. "These guys give me the creeps." The woman was startled by his action. "You touched me." Owen looked M her chest. "Want an racore?" "No." And then she did something which startled him. Reaching for the breast pocket in his coveralls she pushed her fingers down inside, rummaging around for something. Owen looked down and discovered he was wearing dun-colored coveralls, His garment wasn't nearly so weU tailored as hers, and of course he didn't fill it in the same manner. All the men on the street were dressed as he was. "What are you looking for, lint?" She did not answer but instead searched the other of the two identical pockets in his garment. Bodi were empty. Pulling the collar away from his neck she ran her fingers around the neckband without finding anything, and then frisked him by moving her hands down each sleeve of the coveralls. A small oblong bar of stainless steel was fastened inside one sleeve, above the wrist. The woman removed it with an exclamation of annoyance and pinned the bar in its proper place, under the flap of one pocket. She then placed the flat of her thumb against the bar and gently pressed it to his chest. For the sheer fun of it, Owen did the same to her. The yoimg woman was taken aback by the gesture but stood firm when she realized what he was doing. An identical bar of stainless steel was pinned beneath a pink flap, riding high on her breast. It gave softly as Owen pushed. A sensation was transmitted to his IF Ihumb, a peculiar sensation he did not immediately recognize. He pushed again. His thumb felt or read numbers, and then he knew he was reading a message imprinted on the bar. The thumb transmitted a legend: L-#-#-# "That is enough," she told him, and removed his hand from her body. Fascinated, Owen put a thumb to his own pocket bar. Recon HAln-#? "Hey," he cried, "dig those crazy bug numbers! What's that question mark for?" "Your original age is uncertain." "I'm twenty-eight." The pink and blonde doll zeroed In on that. "How do you know?" O wen blinked, parted his lips to attempt a rational explanation, and then paused, hung on a dilemma. He didn't know how he knew. "Well, I just am, that's all." His thumb lingered over the identification bar a second time. "What does Recon H mean?" She ignored the question. "Were you given instructions?" "I was told to follow these creeps lo work." "Nothing else?" The doll again betrayed annoyance. "Weren't you told to return, afterward? Don't you recall your point of origin? What was the number on the door? Do you remember the woman there?" Owen shuddered. "I remember she was loaded." "Loaded? She was weighted down?" "She was loaded with booze. You know, looped." "I dont know. What is looped? Where did she obtain the booze?" "How should I know?" Owen demanded with irritation. "Mayb# she had a still in there." "A still what?" "Honey, you're a dull cat. Don't you know anything? How'd you ever get to be strawboss' around here without knowing anything? You pink babes are running this crazy place, aren't you?" He examined the cute little brown spot on the tip of her nose. "Where did I come from, anyway? How'd I get into this zombie business?" "There is something terribly wrong here." "You can say that again." "But why should I repeat it?" "Oh, go fly a kite. I know, I know, what is a kite?" Owen shook his head with bewilderment. "No organization all the way down the line. Let's start over." And ho reached for the bar on her breast. She stepped back. "Stop that. Do you remember your name?" "Owen Hall." "And you are twenty-eight?" "Yes." "When did you cease being twenty-eight?" Owen said, "When the -- " and came up short, astonished at her question and his own attempt at an answer. He had almost answered. When fhe -- what? Owen poked about the huge and nearly empty cavern which substituted for a memory. Something was moving in there. He focussed on the object. An automobile. The was a vague image and wondered what it had to do with him. "Do you remember anything prior to that door? "No. She just shoved me through." "You don't recall the location? The number? "I haven't the foggiest idea. "But where will you spend the night?" r iat gave him pause. "I don't know. I hadn't even thought about it. Any park benches around here?" "What is a park bench?" "That's what I thought," he said gloomily. "Honey, whatever happened to the Indiana I lived in?" "Is Indiana a town? I don't know that name. But I think you should come to my place tonight. You simply can't go roaming around." Owen's jaw dropped. "Do you mean that?" "Certainly. You have to sleep somewhere indoors." He stole a glance at the nearby men. "Won't people talk?" "Talk about what?" "This sure as hell ain't Indiana." The blonde charmer gave him a small metallic plate about the size of a calling card. Owen moved his thumb over it, inwardly pleased at his new-found skill. The plate repeated the legend he had already read on her bar, while immediately below that identification was another number he supposed to be a house number, or at least a door number to one oi the warrens along the road. Owen allowed his thumb to tarry over the plate and his imagination to play in the blonde hair. It was difficult to accept. "You want me to spend the night with you?" "I certaiidy do. I want to look into you; there is more than a suspicion that you are incomplete. Your present behavior isn't normal, you know. It needs correcting." "So what's in it for me?" "The works," she replied enigmatically. "Obey your previous instructions and then obey mine. When you are dismissed from your job report to this address." And she left him as abruptly as she had come. Owen watched her swing off the road in expert fadiion. He even turned around to watch her exciting figure until it vanished in the distance behind him. Owen puUed himself from an erotic dream to find himsdf looking into the blank face of a blank man standing several feet away. "You poor sapi The trouble with you is, you're all dieie. Know what I mean?" m T he rolling road eventually delivered its human cargo to some large building Owen took to be a factory, or possMy a warehouse. There were no signs to indicate the nature of the place. For once he sorely missed the ubiquitous billboard. The men ahead of Owen were leaving the road and entering the building in fiieir listless fashion, braving fike so many stereod# IF types on their way to another boring Aiy at the office. Owen followed them, knowing curiosity. A great doorway engulfed him. A factory, Owen decided. In that first quick glance around, he saw what appeared to be hundreds of machines of totally alien design, geared to produce something equally alien. There were no scraps of anfIhing on the floor to lend a hint of the iwoduct, no stockpiles of raw material waiting to be fashioned. The incoming men pushed past him, scattering throu the building and each choosing a machine with practiced familiarity. Still led by curiosity, Owen walked perhaps a hundred feet along tiie most convenient aisle and stopped again. After a moment he bellowed aloud. "Hey! What the hell is going on here? Anybody home? The far leaches of the building echoed his diout. The soulless factory workers did not pause in their tasks, did not look up or even peek around at him, did not cover their ears as his hoarse bellow beat around the great building. Owen considered yelling fire! The yell was unnecessary; he caught a sudden flash of pink in the fistance and concentrated on that. Someone had heard him. Another one of those pink women came along the aisle on the run, panting from the unusual exertion. Who did that? Who did what?" "What is the matter here! Why (fid you raise your voice?" Owen inspected her. This newest specimen was a distinct disappointment and he didn't try to conceal that fact. She was a much older woman than any he had seen thus far: gray haired, gray eyed, gray skinned, singularly straight up and down, and utterly without a sense of humor. "We don't raise our voices in here, man." Her enunciation of man contained a built-in gibe. "Grandma, except for you and me, nobody has voices in here," he retorted. That brought a titanic frown to the gray forehead. She opened her palm as if to slap him but changed her mind as the hand was traveling toward him. Instead, she quickly flipped open his pocket flap and jabbed an angry thumb down on his identification bar. The gray lips curled. 'T might have known it. A brand new one. Didn't they teach you manners?" "What arc manners?" Owen asked with secret delight. Grandmother managed a double take. She snapped at Owen. "Who was your fabricator?" "Do you mean that crazy doll who kicked me out of the house? She didn't introduce herself. Hitting the jug, you know. One of those women who booze up and then want to fight." Owen clucked with disapprobation. "But don't worry, Granny, Fve got miother date for tonight." "I should hope so," tiie gray lady retorted. "Now behave youreif and come with me." followed the woman to an unmanned machine. In four minutes time she introduced him to the production line, and it was the most confounding thing he's ever seen. The machine itself was a monstrous affair the size of an overland truck. Almost all of its working parts were concealed from view behind a casing, hiding the wheels and gears from curious eyes but at the same time preventing him or those mindless operators from sticking their fingers into the works. The nearby face of the machine contained a window perhaps two square feet in area, with a short stainless steel bar above the window and a row of push buttons beneath. The bar was about five inches wide and two inches high, of concave design, and set into the machine wall at about the height of a man's head. Owen discovered it was intended to receive a man's forehead. Following the gray dame's explicit instructions he bellied up to the machine, placed his forehead against the bar and visualized a slice of bacon. He just stood there and thought about a slice of bacon. When he had formed a complete image in his mind, the full, rounded picture of a succulent strip of bacon fairly oozing with vitamins and goodness, he pushed the first button as he had been told to do and the machine began operating. A light went on behind the window. A strip of bacon -- the one he had visualized -- dropped from somewhere overhead onto a paper tray. Owen stepped back to stare at it "Well, how about that!" "Continue!" the gray grandmotherly type snapped in his ear. "Yon haven't completed the ration. Follow my instructions." "Say, that's a damned good trick. How'd I do it?" "It is reconstituted pork. Complete the ration." Again he bellied up to the machine, placed his head against ths think-bar, pressed the button and produced a second slice of bacon. II dropped down to rest on the tray alongside the first slice. Owen kept at it until he had five slices in all. "That is sufficient. Now wrap it."  Punching the second button with a feeling of secret exhilaration, Owen watched through the window as a sheet of transparent wrapping paper spewed up from below, wrapped itself around the rasher of bacon with an assist from a pair of mechanical fingers and tidied up the package for somebody's breakfast. "Dispatch it." He punched the third button and the package was whisked out of sight. An empty tray dropped into place and the machine waited for the young creator's next visualization. "Neat -- very neat. I didn't even say shazamr "Stop that noise. Talking isn't permitted here. Continue working until the shift has ended." "You mean this is all I have to do?" "Isn't that enough?" IP "Well, I guess so," he said. "Then get at it. And keep your mouth shut." She watched over his Mulder for the next several minutes, making certain he did a competent job. O wen thought bacon, made bacon, wrapped bacon and sent bacon on its way to some mysterious place, five slices to the package. All of his bacon was of the finest quality, prime meat, because it suddenly occurred to him that one of those packages might be his breakfast in the morning, and he would surely be hungry if the charming pink and blonde creature lived up to her enigmatic promise. After a while the gray haired supervisor seemed satisfied with his output and left him, disappearing into the vast distance from which she had come. The production of bacon went on for nearly an hour. And then Owen made a necktie. It wasn't a very good necktie. The colors were poor and the pattern awry, but it was his very first necktic and he was proud of it. He wondered if perhaps he could create a fad for neckties, something to reMeve the dun monotony of the coveralls. He made several neckties, each an improvement on the one before, wrapping each one in an individual gift package and sending them on their way. Next he tried a loaf of bread but it was a dismal failure and had to be scrubbed -- his visualization of ttie interior had been faulty. A handful of cigars pame out better. They looked so good he wished he could reach through die window and help himself. Then it occurred to him that a fine monkey wrench might please somebody, so he visualized that, wrapped it and sent it along to wherever the things were going. Other tools followed, sometimes one to a package and sometimes several just for variety: screwdrivers, pliers, ball peen hammers, chisels, awls, saws, squares, files, everything a journeyman carpenter would want in his toolbox. The quality and abundance of his tools provoked a mild wonder. They were so well made, so meticulous in detail, so workmanlike. Perhaps he had been a carpenter before. Before what? Before he had ceased being twenty-eight. Before that fuzzy image of a moving automobile. O wen stopped work to think about that. Scrawny wisps of memory skittered about the barren places of his mind. Sometimes two or three wisps touched and thereafter clung together. He had been sitting in an automobile. Sitting in the front seat. The automobile was moving very fast, almost too fast, hurtling along a road at breakneck speed. Perhaps he had been rushing to his carpenter's job. Something happened next. Something very big happened. Another shadowy image. The image crawled out of a worm hole at the bottom of his mind and crept forward to be examined. It touched W another image. A large truck. There was a large truck on the same road and it was moving toward him. Toward his automobile. Owen stepped back and stared up at his machine. The machine was as big as a truck; when he used his imagination it was the size and shape of a large truck -- that other truck which had appeared in front of his car. There it was! He had been sitting in the front seat of his own automobile, hurrying along a road, and a truck had rushed at him from nowhere. Well, the truck might have been there all the time but he hadn't been looking at it, hadn't seen it. He remembered a toolbox resting on the seat beside him. Suddenly the box was open and tools were flying through the windshield. Some of them were even hitting him. His automobile stopped quite suddenly. Owen was very certain, now, what happened to him. The speeding car, the unexpected truck, the hurtling tools were too vivid, too substantial to be dismissed. That had happened to him. Owen blinked at the unexpected mildness of that and wondered briefly why the experience hadn't followed the book. There had been no sharp division, no definite period of transition between the tools striking him and that drunken woman thumping him on the back as she shoved him through a door. The one blow had followed the others without meaningful separation. No rest period. Movement in the corner of his eye. Owen hastily returned to his machine when he caught a glimpse of the supervisor coming along the aisle. Pink clothing was like a neon signboard in such drab surroundings. The gray woman paused for a sullen moment and looked over his shoulder while he dutifully manufactured packages of bacon; rich, tasty bacon. When she continued on her way, Owen made a cucumber. He was fond of cucumbers. IV H e was surprised at the shortness of the work day; it had union hours beat handily. Owen guessed it wasn't much beyond noon when the gray haired supervisor blew a piercing blast on a whistle and stopped the works. The shrill noise careened around the building. He was the only one to cover his ears. The lifeless creatures manning the machines trooped to the great door and departed, exhibiting neither surprise nor regret; they mounted the road, which was now rolling in the opposite direction, and rode away without emotion. Owen followed them in like manner because the old gray eyes were watching him with frustration and suspicion. She seemed upset about something. Owen conquered a sudden impulse to turn around and waggle his fingers at her -- she might see well enough to note where he held his thumb. His return trip was uneventful. The old cemetery was dismissed IF with a casual glance because H no longer seemed important to him. He was preoccupied with a belated realization that no one at the factory, including himself, had made a trip to the drinking fountain or the men's room all morning long. That was decidedly odd. The little metal card in his pocket bore the pink blonde's door number. Owen fished it out to read it again. He began watching doors. The numbers dwindled as the road carried him to the southwest He found the proper dwelling after a while and swung off the road, looking over his shoulder to see if anyone was watching him. They weren't -- they were busy seeking their doors... Owen walked up the path and tried the door but k did not give under his hand. He put more strength into a second attempt but stffl it held fast. So he kicked the door open. The apartment reminded him of Ae factory, but on a smaller scale ei course. It consisted of one long room, having a number of opaque screens and other room dividers set here and there to break the vast, monotonous expanse of the whole. There were no pictures, no carpets, no useless dustcatchers. He located a lounging area, a dining area, a vaguely feminine place which would be the blonde's bedroom (double bed), a cubbyhole alongside it which served as a bath and another, smaller cubbyhole which contained a single stainless steel cot and nothing more. Owen stared at the cot and shuddered. The remainder of the apartment was a workshop, and here the suggestion of a factory was too broad to be ignored. The dominating structure in the room was the think and do machine -- a scaled-down replica of that same machine he had used this morning to manufacture bacon. The only otfier discemable difference to this machine was that It contained a delivery door on one side, an opening exactly resembling an oven door. Owen pulled it open to peer inside. The oven was empty but for a smidgin of dust and an odor which caused him to wrinkle his nose and quickly close the door. Three oblong boxes were stacked at the rear of the machine. Because he was nosy, Owen lifted the lid of the topmost box and looked inside. He closed it fast. A worn book caught his eye and he picked it up to riffle the pages. Owen guessed it to be a service manual. Several of the large inner pages folded out to resemble blueprints or schematic drawings or something. The text of the manual was written in a peculiar kind of English he failed to understand, but the illustrations were remarkably clear and comprehensible. They depicted men. Owen slammed shut the book, suddenly ill at ease. He did not like to look at skeletons and at livid, man-like things with their skins off. It was indecent. O wen found a jar of old coins tucked away in a corner of the workshop and was twisting off the lid when he heard a noise at the n door. He put down the jar and went to investigate. The blonde had come home. He said, "Nice little place you've got here." The blonde was staring at the shattered remains of her door. Her surprise on seeing him was equal to the dismay caused by the wreckage. "What are you doing here?" "Unfair! Unfair! You invited me -- now don't try to wriggle out of it." "What happened to this door?" "I kicked it open." "But why did you do that?" "Because it was locked," Owen said simply. A sharp, penetrating frown. "Are you looped?" "Not yet. I couldn't find anything in the house." "Why did you leave your job?" "The old woman -- you know. Granny -- stopped the works. She sent us home." "Why?" "I didn't ask. I'm not a company man." "Was there a breakdown?" "I didn't see any." "That is very unusual. Something must have gone wrong." "Too bad," Owen said. "I liked the hours, too." She looked past him into the interior of the house. "What were you doing in there?" "Casing the joint. It's a square layout." "It isn't square, it's a trapezoid. Our buildings are planned." Owen shook his head. "Honey, do you have any idea what a dumb broad is? The slightest idea?" "No." "I didn't think so." He waved her forward. "You might as well hop over that kindling and come on in. You stand out there yakking all day, people will think you're selling subscriptions or something." The blonde stepped over the wreckage of her door and entered the apartment in, something of a daze. "I confess I don't understand you at all. You are unlike any other man I have ever known. You are incomprehensible." "That makes two of us," he retorted. "What did you do with Indiana?" "I never had your Indiana. I don't know what it is." "Indiana was the place I lived in, back there, back when. What time is it now -- I mean, what year is it?" "One Hundred Sixty-one." "One Hundred and Sixty-one ivhat?" "What do you mean by what?" "There you are!" he shouted triumphantly. "What is A. D. or something like that." The blonde was bewildered. "What is A. D.?" Owen muttered, "A rose is a rose is a rose." He seized her hand and pulled her into the workshop. As before, she seemed startled by his unfamiliar action but went along readily enough. Owen paused near the think and do machine and pointed dramatically to the stack of oblong crates stacked beside it. IF "Poor old Yorick is stuffed in there, in that top box. Shame on you. T here had not been sufficient time for the startled expression to leave her face. "Do you know him?" she asked incredulously. "Never saw him before in my life. Either of my lives. Do you specialize in reconstituted orange juice?" Owen stepped close and peered into her eyes in what he hoped was an accusatory manner. "Fve got your number, baby!" "Of course you have. I gave it to you this morning." "Not that number!" Owen roared. "I mean, I know what's going on here. In this house -- this town. I know all about them zombies out there. They're recon jobs!" The pretty blonde stared at Owen for a long while as the shout died away and silence returned to the room. At last she said thoughtfully, You are flawed" Each word was given a careful enunciation to make it properly significant. Owen shifted uncomfortably under her stare, looked away, took a backward step and searched for somethiing to distract her attention. He felt like an ant under glass. The jar of old coins caught his eye and his imagination; he'd been about to examine them when the blonde came home. Now there was a handful of clues. Owen darted across the shop. He twisted off the lid and spilled the coins on a bench. Apparently she had tried to clean them. "Come here -- look at these things. Where did you get them?" The blonde joined him at tho bench, watching him carefully. "They turn up here and there, during excavations. The ancients used them in their religious ceremonies; they are called monies." "I know what they are," he said shortly. "Look at the datesl" Owen sorted the coins. There was a solitary penny, several dimes, a couple of quarters, a half dollar, and two other coins whichwere total strangers to his eye. The penny was dated # and Owen grunted his satisfaction at die familiar date. Two of the dimes were of the Mercury type bearing the dates # and #; the remainder were the later Roosevelt dimes and Owen inspected the date of each one with a concentrated interest. One dime was carefully put aside. The two quarters were of minimal interest because the dates were common. The half dollar was something else again and earned a careful scrutiny. Owen stared with disfavor at the man's profile stamped on the coin and muttered an indistinct vilification; imagine that jackass winding up famous! It was put aside with the dime. He hunched over the remaining, unfamiliar pieces. "Look at these things," he commanded the blonde. "Ten Shut. What is ten shut? What do you know about the AmerCan States? Does that mean what I think it means?" "It is said that AmerCan was a most ancient land, supposedly the possession of a mythical deity. I know nothing more than that." She studied his face, anticipating an expected ritual. 'Do you know about it?" "Never heard of the fool thing, but I can guess. Look here, they turned out these pieces in # and #. Boy -- talk about Buck Rogers stuff!" Owen dismissed the strange coins and returned his attention to the dime. He inspected it somberly, turned it over to read the mint mark and then rolled it in his fingers. It had the old feel of Indiana, the feel of home. After a moment he gave the dime to the girl. Read it." "Read what?" It was not what she was expecting. "The date." "One nine six zero. Is that significant?" "It sure as hell is, honey. #. That was minted just one year after I... after the... you know." He groped fMAe proper expression to mark the evt. "After you ceased being twentyeight?" Owen nodded, knowing a melancholy mood. "It gives a guy a funny feeling at the bottom of his stomaclL I mean, I didn't get that far, but here it is in my hand. The date reads funny. It makes a guy think." She asked softly. "Do you want me to withdraw?" "Withdraw? What for?" "You might want to pray privately." O wen nearly hurled the dime across the room. "You don't on it, dimwit, you spend it!" "Spend? How do you spend it?" "On beer -- when you can find dime beer." "What is beer?" "Booze," he retorted. The blonde brightened. "I know that term now. I have discovered that Booze was the name of a prehistoric god who manufactured alcoholic beverages for his people. The ancients drank it during their ceremonial ' orgies." "We sure as hell did, honey, with or without the orgies. And so did that crazy dame who had me last night. Where did she get the stuff?" The young woman revealed her frustration. "I don't know that I have not been able to locate your fabricator; you haven't been very helpful, you know. But I am certain that her unfortunate experiments with the alcohol was responsible for your flawed condition. It never happened before. There is no such thing as a faulted worker. That simply can't be permitted, of course." "Of course. So what do we do now? Fly kites?" The blonde folded her arms. The hesitation in answering was noticeable. "I admit to a certain curioaity." "About what?" "About you, Owen Hall. The flaw may have been deliberate." Owen studied the pink coveralls, A lively rubber ball of exhilaration snapped up and down his spine. "Do you suppose that babe had something in mind?" "I intend to find out" "How?" She only smiled and looked at liim. "Goody," Owen said after a moment. "I like surprises." O wen Hall woke up at some unknown hour of the night. He peered around in the darkness, seeking orientation, and then turned over in bed to gently prod the shoulder of the sleeping mechanic. The absolute hush of an untenanted night enfolded the apartment and the city beyond it. Owen knew without looking that the road was motionless and empty, and the park benches -- if they existed -- would be folded away. Perhaps even the moon had deserted the earth lest its light cause a stirring among nightbirds. The silence on the other side of the door was total. The blonde moved under his prodding. "What's the matter?" she asked drowsily. "I'm hungry." "Go to sleep. It isn't time to eat. "But I'm hungry now," Owen insisted. She pulled herself awake and sat up in bed, obviously annoyed. "Can't you wait until morning?" "No," Owen said and bounced out of bed. 'Tlit the deck." He pulled back the cover. "Chop, chop." The young woman climbed out with a suspicious word on her lips that aroused his wonder. He was sure he wouldn't like it if he understood it. She walked on bare feet to the kitchen and turned on a light. Owen said, "Wow," and looked at the view while the blonde snapped a switch above a stainless steel box set into the kitchen wall. Another contraption that reminded him of an oven. He watched in silence as she sullenly pushed a series of btittons below the shiny box ordering a meal. Nothing happen ed immediately and the blonde lean ed against the wall, fighting sleep Time slipped away. "What's holding up the show?" "Be patient," she said crossly. "It will be cooked and delivered in a moment." "Right out of the factory, eh? You babes sure have this town organized." A signal light winked into sudthe blonde pulled open an ovenlike door on the front. His breakfast was there, steaming hot. Owen stared at the monkey wrench. The wooden handle was done to a crisp. The woman was stunned. What is that?" "A monkey wrench. What did you think it was?" S he turned on him, her face clouded with the color of anger. Despite himself, Owen was entranced. He couldn't remember ever seeing a woman angry all the way down. "Look at me!" Owen lifted his gaze. "I am." "Tom did that!" "Guilty, your honor." n IF That is why the processing plant was shut down, that is why you were sent home early "I thought it was the union hours." She shook an excited finger in his face. "Do you realize what you've done? Do you realize people might go hungry tomorrow? Did you make many of those things?" "No," Owen said truthfully. "Just one of them. That one." "You are totally irresponsible!" "Aw, calm down. You said that before; you're always yakking about my flaws and my equilibrium. Go sing a new song." He inspected the smoking handle of the wrench and decided he wasn't hungry after all. It wouldn't be wise to request another order just now. She said omiously, "There will be no question about your equilibrium in the morning. There will be no flaws when you leave here." "Going to rebuild me, eh? A complete overhaul?" "You will not be flawed vhen I am finished with you." "Thafs what I thought." Owen looked at her symmetrical witchery. "Always wanting to take the fun out of Bfe, always wanting to knock everybody down to size. Honey, you've got a screwball world here and you can damn well keep it. If you prefer them zombies out there to me, die h with' it." He turned aod stalked out. "Where are you going?" "I'm going to bed," he called back from the other room. A moment later: "I'm in bed. See in what peace a Christian can die." The young woman stood in the kitchen for a long moment before snapping off the switch on the wall oven. The light followed, and still she waited in the darkness. At length she realized her bare feet were cold. Owen Hall's single day of life ded better than it had begun. tion #, Title #, United States Code.) #. DCbe of riUnK, OcU #, #. #. Title of publication. IF Street, New York, N.Y., #. #. Location of the headquarters or general business office of the publishers (not printers), #I Hudson Street, New York, N.Y., #. # Names and addresses of publisher, editor, and managing editor: Publisher Sol (#ohen, #I Hudson Street, New York, N.Y... #. Editor Frederlk Pohl, #I Hu(kon Street, New York, N.Y., #, Managing Editor none. #. Owner: Galaxy Publishing Corp., #I Hudson Street, New York. N.Y., #, Robert M. Guinn (Sole stockholder) #I Hudson Street, New York, N.Y., #. #. Inown bdholders, mortgages, and other security holders owning or holding I percent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages or securities: none, #. Paragraphs # and # Include. In eases where the stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the company as trustee or lo any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom weh trustee ts acting, also ttse statemejnts of two paragraphs show the affiant's full knowledge and belief as to tho dreumstanoes and conditions undler which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and eecurlties In a capacity other than that a bona fide owner. Names and addresses of individuals who are stockholders of a corporation which Itself Is a stockholder or holder of bonds, mortgages or other securities of the publishing ooiooratlon have been Included In paragraphs T and # when the Interests of such individuals art equivalent to I percent or more of the total amount of stock or securities of the publishing corporation. #. A. Total no. copies printed (net press run) ; average no. copies each Issue during proceeding # months: #: single Issue nearest to filing date. #. B. Paid circulation. #. To term subscrlbeat by mail carrier delivery or by other means: average no. copies each issue during preceding # months: #t: single issue nearest to filing date, #. #. Sales through agents, news dealers, or otherwise: averago no. copies each Issue during preceding # montte: #; single issue nearest to filing data: #M. C. Free distribution (Including samples) by mall, carrier delivery, or by other means: average no. eoplaa each issue during preceding # months: none; single issue nearest to filing data: none. D. Total no. of copies each issue during preceding # montbs. #; single issue nearest o filing date: #. I eertlfy that the statements made by me abora are correct and eomplata. Sol CWmb, Publisher. IF  Novelette If Is good fo place things In perspective--but can you be sure the perspective h yours? I T he momeoft Bill Wheeler stepped into the bathroom, both little girls shrieked and leapt out of the bath. Bill grabbed for Hannah and Iris wife grabbed for Tammy. She missed, he connected, but Hannah twisted out of hts grasp, left him with a hanctfnl of suds, and chased the other handful of suds into the nursery. A moment later they were back brandishing sheets of drawing-paper covered with bold drawings. "Look, Daddy! Look what I drew at school!" yelled Tammy. "Look, I drew something too!" shouted Hannah. "Look, look, look, look!" Their mother shushed helplessly through the steam but Bill just laughed. "Look, Daddy, stop laughing Daddy. Look at our pictures." "All right, already," he said. "Now one at a time, for Heaven's sake. Get in a line, why don't you?" "They'll get in the bath again if anywhere," said Mrs. Wheeler, and firmly lifted Hannah -- the nearest and smallest -- over the rim, her pink sudsy legs kicking in the air. "Well, you seem to have your feet on the ground," he said to his other daughter. "Oh, come on, Daddy," she answered. and thrust the drawing towards him. He took it from her, and, prolonging the suspense, slowly fetched from his inside pocket a leather case from which he took his lenses and fixed them deliberately on his nose. Meanwhile Hannah was energetically resisting her mother's efforts to soap her arms and was beating the back of her father's neck with a roll of drawing paper. Mrs. Wheeler acted like a wise mother, and whipped the roll of paper out of one daughter's hand and wrapped the other in a shroud-sized towel. "Let's keep it a little quiet," said Bill. "I 'm concentrating on Tammy's picture." There was a comparative silence, broken only by a suppressed whinnying from the two girls. "Now let's see. Right in the front, bigger than everything else, there's a man with a fur round his neck -- " "That's not fur. Daddy," said Tammy from inside the towel. "That's a beard." "And he seems to be wearing a sort of yachting jacket covered with bottle tops." "Silly, Daddy! That's his Space Police uniform with his rows and rows of medals." "Oh, yes. Well, behind him a piece there's this space cruiser on its hind legs, there's a couple more people in yachting jackets -- " "Oh, Daddyr " -- round a little fire, and then there's trees and flowers and so on and a monster artichoke -- " "It's a Murray person. Daddy. A Murray person." "I see now by the warts. And then there's more trees very small in the background, and after that there's a little, little man walking away into the distance." "Now look at mine! Now look at mine!" came a shout out of the steam in the bath, and Hannah purameled at her mother's arm. i#T)ut that somewhere safe for JL me," said Bill to his elder daughter, handing her back her drawing. "I must look at Hannah's." From the window-sill he picked up the other drawing and opened it. "Remarkable unanimity of theme, I see," he said. "There's this big man with a beard in the front and then halfway back the other two medium-sized men by the fire and the warty artichoke -- " "Murray person!" screamed Hannah, incensed, from the bath. "And then the line of trees and then the little man in the distance." "Come on, Daddyl Guess what it represents. Daddy!" "I really can't think," said their father in mock mystificatiofi. 'Something you read about hi school?" "You're being so stupid, Daddy," said Hannah. Tammy released herself from the towel and wound it instead round her father's legs. "Daddy really knows," she said scornfully. "He's just pretending." "I don't know," said Bill. "It's you on the Federation satellite, Daddy. Don't you see?" sidd Hannah eagerly. "There's you in the front with the medals, and behind's Levine and Matsuki and right in the back's the cd man getting smaller and smaller. "Don't you see?" "Well, now you mention it. I do see Levine and Matsuki and I just see the o!kl man, though he's got a bit small in this picture. But I don't see me. Unless you mean this bearded monkey up front here -- but he's nothing Ifte me." "You're so sffly sometimes. Daddy," said Tammy. "Of course it's you in tbc picture." "I guess they've finished their bath," said BiU's wife. "Time for our story! Time for our story!" "Okay, so let's be off," said Bill. He waited for the resolution of an unequeal three-way struggle between Hannah and her mother and Hannah's flowered nightshirt and then they were ready. Bill snatched his two diildren up into his arms, from which point they instantly started tugging at his reddish beard. "Easy on the steering," he said and swept them through into die nursery, where he inserted one into die b with the elephants on the quih and the other into the bed widi die lions on the quilt. They popped straight out again like corks from a champagne bottle and, bouncii round him, changed beds. He bared his teeth and hooded his eyes SatankaQy. "Drat it," he said. "Where did I put those children?" "Wrong beds," said Hanmdi, snugging down into the covers unti only her curly topknot showed. "Now tell us the story of you and Levine and Matsuko on the Federatkm satellite." "You don't want that old story again? I've told it to you a dozen times. And it's sort of sad." "The Federation satellite! The Federation satellite!" "Don't you want the one about the witch, the wolves and the little girl who Hved on Endymion IV?" "You and the Federation satdlitel" "The Federation satellite it is then. Ready now. It was like this." He stopped. Hannah's topknot had disappeared and he could see nothing of her except a bulge under the bedclothes like a goat in the stoma of a boa constrictor. "Did I lose you?" he asked. "Oh, I see. Ten! Nine! Sight! Seven! SixIFive! Fourl Three! Two! -- um -- urn -- One! Fire all!" With a whining and a spluttering Hannah emerged from her boa constrictor and sat up straight with her arms above her head, grinning and giggling. "All ipshape now? Well, I'll begin." IF II #CTackaways in the dim past beAJ fore you two nonsenses were thought of, (he said), a ship set out from Glenn Field, New Mexico, carrying three men, a Murray and just a heap of papers and pictures. The first man was Levine, Earth's ambassador to the Galactic Federation; the second was Matsuki, a captain in the Space Police; and the third man was his engineer, as stupid, lazy and bearded a man as you could hope to meet. Til not tell you his name. ("Daddy!" shouted Tammy and Hannah together.) Don't interrupt. Their mission was to deliver Levine and his heap of papers and pictures to a meetingplace where he would talk to people from the Federation. Levine was going to do the talking; the Murray, as you know, just keeps the artificial gravity going; the engineer was to run the ship and Matsuki was there sort of to run the Murray and the engineer. So when the ship got to the meeting-place they found the Federation hadn't arrived. But they'd left a biggish disk-island floating there -- luckily the right way up or we'd all have slipped off. And they'd left a signal beacon which guided the ship in to land. The signal beacon also said they should wait there, the Federation people would be along in about four Earth days. The engineer looked through a porthole and everything looked okay; he opened the ventilator and the air sniffed okay. So everybody got out and took a walk. Well, you kids these days know as much about the Federation as I do, but I'll just say that in those days we knew pretty little about them. Wo sort of suspected they were good eggs, but it was Levine's job to find out exactly how good. Very brave man, Levine. So anyway, everybody got out. The ship had landed in what looked like a clearing in a wood. Around them were trees and shrubs of all Earth varieties -- more like the Botanical Gardens, reaHy, than a natural wood. And between the trees were scattered irregular beds of vegetables and flowers. Some of them looked recently dug over. To be exact about the vegetables, there were beds of tomatoes, beds of carrots, beds of onions, beds of celery and beds of lettuce. Since there were also apple trees, peach trees, lemon trees, grapefruit trees, mulberry trees and grape vines the three men made themselves a delicious fresh salad like the one you had tonight. This, I may say, they were very glad and very lucky to get after weeks in space. (He looked sternly at the children. Tammy giggled guiltily. Hannah squirmed and giggled.) So the sun was still high and they decided to see what the rest of the country was like. They left the ship on automatic and set off along what might have been a path through the trees. The land sloped upwards, very slightly at first, then more steeply, so that finally they came to a nearlyvertical rampart or ridge about ten feet high which curved inwards round them on both sides. Along tI the top of it grew a line of fir trees. They scrambled up the ridge and found themselves looking down on a flat and level plain that dipped away before them.  "I guess this is an old volcano crater," said Matsuki, who (as a good captain) liked to make classifications as firm as possible. Or maybe an old meteor crater?" said Levine, who (as a good diplomat) liked his classifications fluid. 'T guess so," said the engineer, who (as a good engineer) was stupid. Beyond the ring of trees they could see countryside much like the area within the saucer -- a pizza of flowers and vegetable patches, peppered with fruit trees. In some places the engineer thought he could discern paths through the trees, but they were so scattered and irregular that they might have been skeins of last year's leaves piled up by the wind between the trees. The sun was bright overhead; the light breeze was fresh and dry; the metal of the ship glinted sharply behind them across the grove. But the air in the plain beyond was misty and moist, and the horizon was lost in a faint blue haze which hid anything further than about five miles out. The engineer, with his marvellously sharp eyes, was the first to see the figure who is the strange hero of this story. ("The old mani The old man!" shouted the children delightedly.) T he old man. This rugged figure was climbing slowly through the trees up the rim of the glade in which the Earthmen stood. He was dressed in baggy old blue denim pants and a patched tartan shirt. In one hand he carried a knobbly beechwood staff, in the other a bundle. The engineer nudged the other two Earthmen and together they stood up under the pines along the perimeter of the glade and waved and shouted to the old man. He untwisted himself as reluctantly as a #-year old apple tree and raised his stick in greeting... "I'll be along presently," he called up to them. "Just you wait where you are." A few moments later the old man reached the top of the rise with a considerable puffing and blowing. ("And spitting. Daddy," said Hannah. "You forgot the spitting." And she gave a vigorous imitation of what she meant. "Well, yes. That's true. He was spitting a bit, too. But that's no reason for you to." Bill fell silent for a moment, and cleared his throat. Hannah culminated her display in a paroxysm of sniffing and hissing, then settled back on her pillow grinning. "Well, when he got to the top, he held out his hand to Levine and said -- " " 'Welcome to the Federation, sir. My name's Gardner. Make yourself at home, sir, you and your company. Fll do what I can to make you comfortable, but don't ask no questions, I just work here,' " said Tammy all in one breath. "That's right. Then he laid his bundle on the ground and unwrapped a striped flannel rag and fetched out the carcass of a fat hare.'O IF "I trapped this out in the blueberry patch isi the valley. I was busy with my traps and I didn't see you arrive until you was already here, almost. I'd better hurry and make your fire or he won't be done by dinner time." "Well, I'm sure that's most kind ot you, Mr. Gardner," siid Levine. 'But I don't think we lijcd a fire. We've got a small stove built into the extension heat-engine of our ship." "It'll be all the better done over wood, sir. And you'll need a little fire of an evening." "Well, that's most hospitable." "Now I hope you've everything you want. There's a spring for water to the south of your ship about # yards. You can tell which is south by the sun. I thought of making the fire between there and the ship. You'll see there's a couple of fallen trees there'll make comfortable seating, I think." "Sounds like a holiday!" said Matsuki, rolling up his sleeves and taking deep breaths of the pinescented air. "I certainly hope it will be one, sir," said Gardner. "I'm going over now to make up your fire. Why don't you look around? I'm afraid I have to ask you not to go further out than the ridge around this dip here Beyond there I'm not supposed to take you. And you'd need a gukle." Levine said, "Ya, sure. We'll just v.alk around for now." When they got back to the ship they found the (Ad man had picked a camp site for them. He was sitting on a fallen log stirring a pot which hung on a tripod of sticks over a crackling fire. They crowded round the pot. "Smells good," said Matsuki, rudely dipping his finger in. "Tastes good, too." "It's the hare, sir," said the old man. "As a matter of fact I added to it some juice I made last year. You take grapes, and squeeze them, and if you let them ferment -- " "That's a remarkable process," said the engineer. "Perhaps you could patent it." " 'Patent?' I don't know the word, sir." "Never mind," said Matsuko, who was a gluttonous eater. "What say we eat? Eh?" He looked round the group, his eyes pleading. So the engineer was sent to get the plates and they sat down round the fire and helped themselves from the pot. B y the time they had finished the sun had gone down. The old man collected their plates and they heard him rinse them in the spring in the darkness beyond the fire. When he came back he was carrying an earthenware jar corked at the neck. "I Ve got some more of that juice I spoke of," he said. "Would you like some to drink after dinner?" "You bet," said Matsuki and ambled to the ship and brought mugs. The old man uncorked the bottle. For a long time the four men sat around the little fire in a silence broken only by the sounds of the IF engineer's gurgling pipe, and of Matsuki smacking his lips and of ine' restless pencD. "What are you doing?" asked the old man. "I'm drawing," said Levine. "I do it when I've nothing else to do." "Can I look, please?" "Of course. Come and sit over here." The old man moved round and the engineer made a place for him. "I see," he said. "But that's marvelous. You're making a picture of us. There's the cooking pot very big in front and beyond with the light on half his face, is Captain Matsuki picking his teeth. That's marvelous. Coidd you draw me?" "Of course. Sit opposite me where I can see you without the light in my eyes." The old man went over where he pointed. He tore out the sheet he'd been working on and selected a long stick of charcoal. The old man watched his hands in fascination. Levine began to draw. "Who are you, Mr. Gardner? How did you get here? Are you human?" "Oh yes, sir," said the old man proudly. "I'm human all right. I know why you ask. I've seen some clever robots. But my parents were human all right, servants to colonists on Stoneground." Levine grunted. "There haven't been colonists on Stoneground since the Damp hit the planet # years ago. It's pretty far from Earth's other colonies, you know." The old man didn't answer for a while. He was watching Levkies careful movements. Following his gaze, the engineer realized that Levine was drawing much slower than usual, though the old man couldn't know that. The old man's attention was on Levine's drawing, but Levine's was on the old man's words. "Oh, yes, the Damp got my. parents, and my parents' master and mistress. But I was in a Jdddy-cabin the master and mistress had used for their own children and passed on to my parents. So when the Damp came I escaped." "That's funny." "Why, sir?" "Well, the police sent out a census force after the Damp passed on. They traced every single colonist who'd been noted in the census before. And buried them, too. I remember reading an abstract of the report. Even when colonies have to be written off we have to find out what happened. I'm sorry if this u painful, but it's important to Earth what happens to Barthmen." "I'm not hurt. It's o long ago now. I'm proud you ould inquire, sir. The truth is I was bom after die last census of the living planet and then the Damp came. They never knew I existed." "I see. Well, what happened then?" "It's simple, really. When the Federation spotted die Damp on Stoneground they sent a fumigation team in right away. Now that you know about the Damp I expect you do the same." "Yes, we do." "You see Stoneground's one of Earth's farthest colonies. Well, it's V also OD the outskirts ot the Federation territory." "I suppose it is, yes." "I was the first human being the Federation ever met, so they tell me. I was eight years old. Well, they began to study my environment at once -- fetched a whole farmhouse and everything in it from Stoneground and installed it on one of their planets, and brought along an old rancher and his wife from Stoneground's neighbor Bullrush. They were my stepfather and mother, old Mr. and Mrs. Gardner of Bullrush. They died years ago. I"m lucky to be alive myself." "TTiat's a strange story. How did you get here?" "They put me here as curator. This is Earth-Heaven, the Federation's gift to Earth. They feel you should have somewhere in this sector you can call home." "It's certainly like Earth, It's a wonderful job." "I believe it is. But it's only a mock-up. Very beautiful, of course, but it's not Earth." "I guess not, Gardner, Home's always something special." "I wish one day I could go to your home, Man's home. I'd like to see i once. I hope you don't mind me mentioning that? I'd so like to go in a ship back to Earth." The old man gazed into the fire. Levine glanced at Matsuki and Matsuki looked questioningly at the engineer. When the engineer felt their eyes on him he shrugged his shoulders. "There's room" he said, "Why shouldn't there be enough room for one more?" m M atsuki had been lying all afternoon in the long grass just below the boundary ridge of the encampment. Now he came strolling back towards the ship and found the others drinking mugs of tea. "How on Earth -- ?" he asked. "It's not perhaps quite what you're used to, sir," said Gardner, mugs. "I did what I could with the local product. I found a bush down in the valley and I took the liberty of picking some myself last year and drying it in the sun." "You know, this is some climate. Old Gardner gets us tea. And while I was lying out there I saw a couple of flights of duck, Striped and Peking, and pigeons and even a swan. I haven't eaten swan since once in Normandy, there was a little place... It hurts to remember those days. I wish we had a little gun, I really do." "It's more than my job's worth, Matsuki," said Levine. "Not even one small atomic cannon." Silently the engineer handed Matsuki a forked stick he'd been whittling. "I think this may serve. If you ask Levine pleasantly, he might open his briefcase and give you a few of the government's rubberbands. And even some paper clips as bullet." "Hey, that's not a bad idea. But pebbles would make heavier bullets. What about it, Ambassador? You wouldn't lose your job over a few rubberbands?" "I guess not. I'll get you some after tea." Levine settled back to IP his drawing. He only knew how to draw two ways. Sometimes he would draw things around him at that moment; sometimes he would draw his wife. She was a cheerful, dumpy woman and they had several cheerful, dark-eyed children. Gardner roasted hedgehogs in clay for dinner that night. The next day Matsuki frightened several pigeons and bruised a woodcock. Levine drew his wife as a tall blonde, since his imagination ran away with him when he was away from home. The engineer made Matguki a crossbow with a telescopic sight out of some pieces of an optical scanner, a tunic-hanger and three Space Police belts. Gardner charcoal-grilled a brace of pheasants and washed Levine's white shirts. T he next day was a bit different. It happens that this engineer was a light sleeper. Like his youngest daughter -- but not like his wife and his lazybones elder daughter. (Tammy squirmed protestingly.) Anyway, he awoke the next morning around # a.m. or #:#. Mist hung among the trees in the glade; the shadows of the trunks slanted through it making a network of biue bars. The rail of the ship's ladder was damp with the morning dew and, running his hand along it, he swept up a stream of water. Below him the old man was poking around the campfire. A thin trickle of smoke wavered up towards the tree tops. "Hullo, Gardner. How are you tibis morning?" asked the engineer, belting his woollen robe around him. "Good morning, Mr. Wheeler, sir," said the old man. "I'm just finishing your fire. Then I'll be off and maybe find some eggs for breakfast. That would suit, I hope?" "Excellent. I'll come with you." "Well, to be "honest, sir. I'd rather you didn't, if you don't mind me saying so, sir. The chidcens usutdfy lay in the raspberry bramble tlmt I have, and that out. beyond fiie perimeter." "Come on, then. I'll come widi you to the edge of the grove." "Well, thafs all right." The two set off together, the dd man switching away fiercely at nettles and ragwort in the grass, plants that hurt his professional pride. The young engineer watched him curiously. "Why can't I go outside the glade?" "It's not 'can't', sir, if you understand me. It's just sort of this part has been laid out for your party and in a way the rest hasn't. I'll show you what I mean when we get there." In a few minutes they got up onto the rampart under the pines and stopped. "Fm going over there," said Gardner, pointing to a green patch about half a mile away. "That's the raspberry patch. But I doubt you could make it out there. You'd get lost. Walk a few yards and you'll see what I mean." The engineer smiled at the old man's distrust of his sense of direction and stepped out amiably down the slope with him. Immediately he sensed that the air outside the bowl was entirely different from that above. It must be as steamy as a jungle, was his first thought. He could hardly see the old man ahead of him, and the tops of the low fruit trees were lost in the swirling mist. He went forward uncertainly, tripped on the uneven ground. When he looked up there was nothing to be seen anywhere. He was surrounded by an even glow which cut him off from his surroundings as surely as if he had been sitting in a light globe. If this was mist, it was the thicket -- and dryest -- he'd ever been in. "Hey, Gardnerl" he shouted. "Get me out of this." XTothing happened. He experimented by putting his hand close to his face. When he held it a couple of inches from his eyes it was just visible as a dark shadow. Not only could he see nothing, but he discovered with a start that he could hear nothing except the beat of his own heart and a hiss that could as easily have been in his ears as in the trees. "All right, Gardner. I see what you mean." He had meant to speak aloud, but his words were absorbed and muffled by the pressing blankness so that he did not know whether he had actually spoken. But immediately he felt a hand on his shouldej. He got up, and the hand guided him along a winding track that led upward. Within a few steps his vision began to clear, he saw the trees take shape like people in a Turkish bath and a few minutes later they were standing on the ridge looking down on the deceptively inviting country. "It's just a little hazy down there, sir." The engineer nodded apologetically. "I'll be off for the eggs. You stay up here and you'll be all right." The engineer watched the old man set off determinedly towards his raspberry patch, skirting the trees and shrubs without even looking up. When he was a hundred yards down the path the engineer turned and sprinted back to the ship. He mounted the ladder two steps at a time and skidded through the ship to the captain's cabin. Once inside he shook Matsuki awake. "What's the matter? Can't you let anyone sleep?" "Up. cap'n," said the engineer, saluting rudely. "Help's needed." Matsuki leapt out of bed instantly and made for the door that led onto the conrol deck. The engineer put his arm across it. "No trouble -- yet. Relax. Just bring a rope, will you? And put on a robe. We're going outside." The captain sighed. "I'll never get to sleep again now," he said grumpily. "I'll come." Soon they both stood on the grass outside, the engineer in his matted wool gown and slippers and the captain in a quilted silk coat with a black dragon on it and his woodsoled sandals. "We'll go this way," said the engineer and led his chief the same way he had gone earlier. When they reached the ridge he waited for the captain to stop yawning and deep-breathing, and then IF pointed to the raspberry patch and the dark dot within it which was the laboring Gardner. "Now," he said. "I'm going to hold the rope and I want you to walk down there a ort way just paying out the rope as you go. Right?" "Sure, if that's what makes you happy for today. How far do you think I should go?" "Please yourself, skipper. You won't want to go far." Shrugging his shoulders, the caplain gave the engineer the end of the rope and set off down the hill, paying it out off his arm. The engineer saw him set off steadily enough, then slow down and go more cautiously; then the captain walked straight into a bramble bush, and fell in. The engineer heard him make some rude comments on the engineer and on the bush. Then he got up again. He was moving his hands cautiously ahead of hhn, and shuffling his feet hesitantly. "All right, if you're so clever!" rtiouted the captain. "What do I do now? "Come out," said the engineer. The rope was still coiled around flie captain's fist, so the engineer pulled gently "This way," he shouted. Slowly and circumspectly (that is, with caution and care) the captain climbed the hill. "Misty down there?" asked the wigineer when Matuski reached the top. "Misty? Are you kidding? It's absolutely impenetrable." He looked exasperated. what's the story." #ome back to the p and  tell you." Together they set off over the ngy pine-neles. 'Well, first, it's not misty down diere. Not like with mist." "I see what you mean. It's not danrp." "Second, it certainly is difficult to see. As if everything were out of focus and all energy were being absorbed." "Hmm." "Well, now, when we're both home at Glenn Reid and I'm visiting you for the evening, what do I do first and always?" "Kiss my wife, you slob." "Well, second." "Let me see. You get a drink. No, that's not it. I know! You go over to the solido cabinet and fiddle with the knobs." "Right. And what is the result?" "It sort of gets rid of some of the fog. I don't know how it's done." "No. Well, I'm the engineer. But basically I'd say it stops the light running around like particles as disorganized as a herd of pigs and gets them in neat rows like waves." "So you once told me. But I don't see any control panel." "No, that's rit, you don't. But if I run into the ship I think I can lay my finger on a device which would do the same for the landscape. You wait here and I'll look." The engineer climbed the ladder and rummaged around as promised and sure enough laid his hands on the thing he wanted. It was a round thingumajig with a handle on one end and a dark eye the other. He handed it to the captain. "That's the feflow. Now one of us goes out and looks around. The other stays and watches the power gauges on the power beam to this thing, and looks after His Excellency." "His Excellency will look after himself," said Levine from the tc of the ladder. He was formally attired in a black tee-shirt and pinstripe morning shorts. His hair was combed, his chin irreproachably shaved and his teeth shone as brightly as a control board in an emergency. "Good morning, you old liar," shouted the captain. "This morning the entertainment is provided by the engine-room." "Since we're all here. I'll kind of assign everyone to their places," said the engineer, not at all taken aback. "Levine will sit here making us some coffee. If Gardner comes, say we're out gathering shredded wheat in the plantations and we'fl be back any moment. I shall stay in the engine-room balancing the power output of the dibblefook that the captain's carrying, and the intrepid captain shall walk down into the plain and see what he can see. Everybody know their lines?" Levine said, "I'll be boiled if I know what's going on around this camp, but don't mind me." The captain fingered the dancHeprib experimentally. "I just press this button, huh?" "Right," said the engineer. "And point the suttleprobe at what you want to see. Give me a moment to lock the direction-finder on you, and then start walking. If you're not back by # hours we'U send out the bloodhounds." He turned and disappeared into the ship. A few moments later Levine and Matsuki heard the whine of the auxiliary power come on. The captain shrugged his shoulders and set off towards the pines. Well, for the next hour the engineer did what engineers do in engine-rooms when they're controlling ganglehubs -- ("You said dibblefook before. Daddy," said Tammy. "Suttleprobe," said Hannah. "Hush. I said dinglegrape.") -- And Levine did whatever people do with coffee. I should think he snoozed by the fire mostly. And finally the captain came running over the edge of the ridge and down into the camp. "The weirdest thing," he panted. "The weirdest thing! Hey, greaseball, come on out of the ship! Tve got news for you." A few moments later the engineer came grinning down the ladder. "The gimbelsone really worked. It was sure drawing some power." "Sure it worked. It was clearing out an area about # foot ahead and quite a bit on both sides and beyond that -- just a wall of mist like a screen. Well, I walked down from the ridge and for, oh, say a hundred yards, two hundred, the country was like you'd expect -- like an earthy slope, with some stones and rocki and grass and those old trees. these kept on, but I gradually had the impression the grass was getting finer and the trees were sort at stunted, or as if they were only bushes out there. Pretty soon it got # there wasn't a thing growing ive knee high. Like toy trees. Or really like a Japanese garden -- I remember those from when I was a kid. Well, here's the weird thing. I kept on even further and those trees got smaller and smaller the further out I went, and about a hundred yards further on they were nothing but a fuzz on the ground and beyond that nothing at all. Just nothing at all. I was walking in a bubble of mist on bare steel plates. That's all there is out there." IV '"Te engineer was the first to reA act. He got up and walked out towards the ridge. The others followed. When they reached the line of pines they stopped. The old gardener was half way back from the distant raspberry patch, a hunched figure growing larger with each step. When he got up to where they stood in line cm the ridge he opened his kerchief and showed them a heap of speckly eggs and dark red fruit. I see Mr. Matsuki and Mr. Levine got up. I hope you slept well." "We were just going to haiw breakfast. Come and join us." "Well, thank you kindly." They walked over to the campsite in silence. Levine poured four mugs of coffee. Gardner fetched water from the spring and put the eggs on to boil. "Reckon you'll be off in a few days," he said. Levine nodded, "I'm afraid so. Tomorrow back to work." "You won't forget to ask if I ean come back with you, will you?" "Of course not. You should see Earth. Earth's really something." The engineer had been gazing into the fire without saying anything aince breakfast started. Now he looked up and blurted out, "Look, I'm not sure you could come with us. It's not as simple as that I" He poked at the embers of the fire. "I think I could settle the matter, if we could do some tests." "What would you want me to do?" "Well, first, when you go out beyond the ridge do you find it difficult to see?" "Yes, a little. But not so difficult as you. I'm more used to it." "For instance, when you're out where you were this morning, could you look back and see the pines round our camp?" "No. They'd be hidden in the mist. I'd lose sight of them after walking just a few minutes." "Well, what I propose to do is fix up a sort of searchlight which will light up the trees on the ridge so that they can be seen from the plain. But you've got to think this over. There's a possibility that what you see may be a sihock. But on the other hand we can't take you back to Earth without doing some experiment like this. You ought to think it over." "I have thought it over," said Gardner. "I want to go and I'll do anything that's necessary. I can't believe that there's anything around here would surprise me after all these years." "Right, then. Now here's what we've got to do. I'm going to give the trundlebib to Levine, and you and he will go out to the perimeter. I'll hook up a three-way communication link, too. We'll be able to hear anything you say, if you don't go more than # miles out, and you'll hear what we say. Just wait out here while I lock onto you." The engineer refilled his mug from the pot by the fire and carried it with him into the ship. The secondary power went on, and in a moment the three men heard his voice. It buzzed in their ears with a slight penetrating whine. Matsuki realized that the engineer must have tuned his output to resonate his hearer's teeth. "Now if Levine and Gardner would walk towards the perimeter ... Any direction will do." Matsuki watched them walk toward the pines. Around him buzzed a few gnats attracted by the camp fire. A few late summer leaves floated down from the lemon trees. The empy billycan over the fire rattled in the breeze." S uddenly Levine's voice buzzed in his head. "We reached the perimeter." "Now I want you both to go down about # yards." "Right. We made it." "I want Levine to place the danderglod on the ground facing up into the trees. Press it into the soil, that won't hurt it. And go and stand under the trees where it's pointing. From here on, Gardner must go alone." IF "rm quite used to that, if you don't mind, my boy," said Gardner. "Please go cautiously. Just go about # feet." There was a pause. "I've done that," said Gardner. "Now look back. What do you see?" "Well, there's the line of pines, and under them's Mr. Levine." "Now, raise your hand and lift your little finger and see if it will cover Levine." "Uh-huh. It just about does -- all but his head." "All right, now move on down. Now go slow. I don't want you to move more than # feet, okay? Now look around you. What do you see?" "Everything's pretty misty down here, of course. There's the three palms with the grape-vines on them, just as usual. Grapes could do with picking. I'd say. Nothing else." "Everything look about the right size?" "Sure thing. Mighty fine big grapes, though." "Now look back towards Levine. See anything?" "No. Fog's too bad at this level." "Now, this is the important part. Keep looking towards Levine. I'm going to turn on the hubbleswopc. Remember -- everything may be a bit distorted." There was silence and then suddenly a sharp intake of breath from the old man. "Quite a turn that gave me! Thought Mr. Levine was right on top of me for a moment, right next to me! But I see he's still under the pines. Looks big, though." "I thought that would be the effect. Hold up your finger and try to cover him up again." "Well, that's kind of funny. I -- let me see -- I just can, well, 'cept for his head." "Hmm. Well, walk a little further and we'll try again." There was a long wait. "Don't go too far!" "Hold your horses, young man," said Gardner. "There's something I want to do." "I'm sorry," said the engineer. "Let me know when you're about ready." There was a much longer silence, and Matsuki, looking up, noticed with a shock that the satellite's sun was dead above die trees. Their breakfast hand stretched right into noontime. Suddenly Gardner spoke again. "I'm ready to look again now if you want to turn on the power." "Here we go again, then." Instantly they heard the old man scream hysterically, "Oh, God -- he's like a -- !" The sentence ended in a choking groan. There was a grinding noise and a thump and then silence. Matsuki sprang up and upset the coffee pot into the fire where it hissed and bubbled. The engineer came flying down the ladder in one jump. He was shouting, "Everyone stay where they are! Levine stay under the pines. Matsuki stay by the fire and make some coffee and get the liquor out of the ship. Above all, Levine, don't go down there!" He plunged through a thicket of light pink azaleas toward the perimeter. n V VXell, there was nothing anyone could da. Levine said that after the old man had told the engineer to hold his horses, he'd set off much further into the plain until Levine had finally lost sight of him. If he'd fallen and hurt himself, we'd probably have never found his body. And if we walked down to him and he saw us coming it would just have made things worse. They stood together on the perimeter near the spot where the old man had left Levine, and the engineer explained what it was the old man had seen and why. They left Matsuki looking out for the old man and the other two went back to the camp fire. Every two minutes Levine said over the telephone link, "Hullo, Mr. Gardner. Can you hear me? This is Levine. Please come up to the camp and I will explain." Finally the old man answered. "I'll come out. Wait up there for me. I think I must have fainted." When he came up the rampart Matsuki took his arm and helped him to the campfire. There the Earthmen gave him coffee laced with whiskey from their First Aid kit. After a while he looked less pale. Finally he said, "It was the shock of seeing Mr. Levine -- like a giant on the horizon -- taller than your ship!" "I believe it," said the engineer. "I guess you found out something I ought to know." The engineer nodded glumly. "Something bad?" The engineer nodded again. "I can't go back to Earth with you?" Nobody poke. "Tell me why, please." Matsuki looked at Levine. The engineer looked into the fire. Levine took a deep breath. "I'll tell you," he said. He got up and stood opposite Gardner. "How big am I?" he asked. "Say, five foot nine." "Hold your hand out straight, and try and cover me with your little finger. Can you do it?" "No." "All right. I'm bigger than your finger." He walked several paces further off. "Can you do it now?" "Almost." "At this distance I'm almost smaller than your finger." He walked out towards the perimeter and stopped again. "Try now," he said. "I can do it easily now." Levine ran back to the fire, and took out a sheet of drawing paper. He sketched an avenue of trees marching back into the distance and disappearing at the horizon. In the avenue he put three figures, one in the foreground, one in the middleground and one a long way away. "That's me near," he said, pointing to the first figure. "I look big. And here's me further away, and here's me a long way away. You can cover me up with just the tip of your finger. Well, when you actually look at me I'm always the same size -- I just look smaller or larger. But this picture of me, this one in the front, actually is larger than the one in the back. Do you see?" The old man was not looking at Levine's drawing any more; he was gazing out miserably towards the line of pines on the ridge. He nodded slowly. IP Levine made a sign to the others and the three Earthmen walked unhappily back to their ship. After a while the engineer said bitterly, "We will have to thank the Federation for their hospitality. They meant very well by bringing us down in a picture of Earth. We just never got around to realizing they'd include a picture of an Earthman." iiThat's not all," said Tammy A after a moment. "You haven't told what the old man did." "That's really the sad part. I didn't want to tell you a sad story at bedtime." "I know, Daddy, but it's part of the story, isn't it?" "Yup, I guess so. Well, after a time the old man came up to Levine holding the sketch and said, 'And when you've finished with your picture you just put it away in its folder?' Levine nodded. The old man put hk brown finger in the middle of tile horizon. 'What happens back there? " 'We call it the vanishing point. AH the lines in the picture are supposed to meet there and vanish.' " 'I'll head that way. I'm still a human being and I'd like to go out like one,' "I can't remember we found anything to say to that. He went off to do his work as usual, and the next morning he came in with a chicken and a couple of pineapples. " 'A farewell present,' he said. 'I've a bit of everything out there. I'll do all right along the way.' "So sometime after breakfast we sort of all got up together and went out to the pines. And there we just all shook hands and he tucked his old striped cloth in his belt and picked up his staff and set off down the track. It was a fantastically dear day. For a long, long time the three men, Matsuki, Levine and the engineer watched him getting smaller and smaller. "And that is all." F or a short time neither of the children spoke. Then Tammy opened her eyes. "My picture, the teacher at school said it was very advanced, the way I'd made the people get smaller toward the back of the picture. She said most children don't do that because it's not the way it looks to most children. Well, it doesn't. I just drew it how you said it happened. Didn't I?" She snuggled down under the covers. "Sure you did, turnip. Sure." After a moment or two he said, "Hey-ho, why don't you two fellows go to sleep, ho?" Neither answered, so he disengaged his hand from Hannah's moist fist, kissed them both on the tops of their heads, tiptoed into the hallway leaving their door ajar and ran down the stairs      IF # Short Stcrf Come along for o day's sailing- and the around beneath vour keel! T he skipper's voice came softly over the intercom, "Easy does it fellows, let's not jump the gun." We were at # feet, this was a bit higher than the pattern of the minimum of # feet required by tiie National Heat-Racing Club, but the skipper is a cautious person and didn't want to be disqualified by being too low when the starting gun sounded. The five-minute gun had already sounded and we were stooging around absorbing just enough heat to keep our craft under motion and maintain our altitude. Fred was concentrating on our radio, listening for the high-pitched bleep that would be the starting gun. The starting gun? Well this is a leftover from the old wind yacht days, when they used a chemical combustion weapon to signal the start of a race. X "Three seconds to go," said Fred quietly, "one, two, three." The skipper swung the console around to bring us on course, and in the electronic deck below I saw med my absorbers to take the ock of full power. I heard the skipper say, "Danm," and looking through the starboard port I saw the Thermo Queen squeeze between us and the buoy. The Thermo Queen was our closest rival and there was no denying k, she was a beautiful ship. She was the very latest thing in heat-racing yachts. Her huge black heat-absorbing sails were the same size as ours according to the rules of the N. H. R. C. Her sails were designed to pick up even the most distant rays and reflections of heat. I have seen her MHing in the predawn rays of the rising sun, skimming along at minimum altitude to save her heat, and making me lose my heart to the beauty of her black sails contrasting with her chromalloy hull. She is all self-contained and completely powered by heat-absorbing machinery as is required by the club. Her old-fashioned radio is powered by the body heat of the operator, and her skipper even had the foresight to get a rather fat man for an operator. W e kidded him about using some of his own heat to power the ship. Our ship the Heat Ranker is an old timer, as is our skipper, and the two were an almost unbeatable combination until the Queen was built two years ago. Then this young skipper and his new ship started showing us his little black exhaust tubes and the after end of the Queen. The Queens skipper used a new type console to steer and balance his ship. It was equipped with colored indicators to show the amount of heat being absorbed, whereas our skipper preferred the old type upon which he could place his hands and sensitive fingers on the plates on top of the console and feel just how much heat each sail was absorbing. The skipper had these plates tuned so fine that if we were absorbing too much heat the plates would bum your fingers. It was a real sight to see the skipper, sometimes with his eyes closed, passing his hands over those plates like a musician. We are a good crew, the five of us, and the skipper has complete faith in us. He never repeats an order twice. The serious-looking fellow is Fred, our radio operator. He isn't as serious as he looks though, and can be a lot of fun at a party. He is rather thin and sometimes he has to run an extension to my body to reach some far-away station. The big guy is Big George. He is our mainsail handler, he needs to be big to trim the port and star sails. He can spin the adjusting wheels as if they were spacephone dials. To offset George's size and to work the little sails in the small parts of the ship we have Slim. Just then the Air Guard came in strong over the air. "Air Guard Seven to all craft, all commercial and pleasure craft will clear the oneto two-thousand foot level in Sector Six for the National Heat Races." We crossed the starting line neck and neck with the Queen followed by twenty six other racers hard on our heels. The Queen immediately headed for a ground highway where the concrete at this time of day would be throwing up all kinds of heat. Our skipper headed for a smafl ridge which was going roughly m our direction and told George to adjust his sails for maximum B.T. U.'s on both port and star sails. We weren't going at top speed, but we did not have to fill our condensm with stored heat to keep from bum ing our sails -- as the Queen must have been doing. We would save ow condensers for later when we needed them. The skipper switdied to following a river and I had to put a few B.T.U.'s in the condenser bank. W e were passing over a patch of woods when the skipper told George to shorten sail a bit and let me use our banked heat. We could see most of the fleet above and below us and quite a few ahead of us. We weren't too worried because many times before wc had been dead last and had managed to come over the finish line first in a blast that would be at the very thermal limits of our sail. Looking out of the port I saw below us some small crafts cruising about a large sandpit and called the akipper's attention to it. The skipper called die boys. Heat Ranger to peanut fleet, can we use your thermos?" Peanut Commodore to Heat Ranger, be our guest, please. We haven't forgotten that you gave us your last year's sails. The heat range is from force twelve to fifteen, watch the middle it's a litde strong there." The boys pulled over to the side and watched as we swooped down over the sandpot humping up in the middle in order not to bank any heat as yet. We came tearing right up through the middle of the fleet and we could hear the boys cheering us on their mini seta. Soon after we were gaining on the Thermo Queen and were about to pass it when suddenly a big luxury boat came up. ShQ was operating on transmitted power and hit us from below, damaging our spanker sad and hull near the after section and shaking us up a bit. Nothing for us to do, but stop. We dropped our magna anchor and used the heat from a large warehouse roof to keep us aloft while we inspected the damage. Slim crawled aft. The spanker sail was easily repaired with growing plastic compound, but we could not rair the hull until we dry docked her. The skipper put on  his magnasuit and crawled outside to inspect the hull. Wc would be able to continue without being a menace to navigation, but the damage would slow our progress. We were happy to hear the Air Guard taking the luxury boat into custody for interference. We were dead last now, and using what little heat I had banked only took us near the fleet, but not near enough. We stayed low and searched for new reflections. The skipper found a small lake just chock full of sparkling reflections from the noonday sun and we were tearing along at near top speed, banking a few B.T.U.'b in the condensers. W e passed the old Hot Mama and then the Shamrock and were behind and below the Queen. The skipper cocked a wary eye upward. "Watch him now," he said, "he'll duplicate our every move. If we can fool him we have the race." "Saim, can the Queen sec the port sail from where she is?" "No," answered SKm. "(toy, then George take m the port safl as much m possible, and ir Slim you see if you can make the hip balance out with the spanker sail. Bill you give her all she's got." We were gaining on the Queen very fast now, but I could see them spreading all the sail they could get out. The Queen was absorbing too much heat and I could see from where I stood, the outer edges of her sails start to glow red from the heat, then white, and then I saw pieces of glowing sail drop off and fall to the earth. She was soon behind us. "Stand by for the finish," said Fred and he switched the intercom on to the radio band. We stood silent for a few minutes and then we heard the long bleep that said we were over the finish line -- first. The old ship practically vibrated with our cheers. Then George said over the intercom, "Now Bill?" "Now," I said. I went up to the bridge to take over the ship while George and Slim put a paravane on the struggling and protesting skipper. They opened the hatch and threw him out of the ship at fifteen thousand feet. This was an old tradition from the wind ship days. "Have fun," laughed George, "I certainly hope you fall into something good." I took the ship over to the mooring ground, dropped the magna anchor and put her away for the day. "Now for the party, everybody come up to the bridge deck." I opened a small drawer in the console and took out the drinks, a tray, full of drink tablets. "What will you have, the clear ones are champagne, the frosty ones are gin and the amber ones are beer. I like the amber ones with the blue stripe, that's blue ribbon beer." We were singing "What will you do with a drunken sailor," and doing very good at harmonizing, when the main hatch opened and there stood the skipper... The skipper I knew did not drink and I thought, oh boy here's where we get it. "Hello boys, excuse me for being so wet, I fell into a swimming pool. May I join your party?" I dumped a couple of champagne tablets into a glass of water and had it in the skipper's hand before he stopped talking. "Oh what do you do with a drunken sailor, what do you do with a drunken sailor, early in the mornComing Next Issue  A groat new novelette of tomorrow's super-science  by A. E. Van Vogt  In the February issue of IF -- don't miss HI IF  Novelette The Hoogans owned the planet -- they said so themselves. But who were the creatures from underground who disputed their claim? I T he Hoogan chamberlain was tall, black-clad, and high-shouldered. He had an immense domeshaped head sloping on to his massive shoulders. His eyes were like freshly shelled oysters in a leathery face and he had long, dangling arms. He turned to face the party of Terrestrial diplomats who stood clutching suifcases under the lofty vaulted ceiling of the vast, daik hall. Shafts of eerily colored light filtered through stained-glass loopholes, which were high in the walk, shedding a faint glow on the uneven stone floor. The drab-colored murals and hangings depicted the specialities of the seven Hoogan Hells. The mouths of dark corridofs radiated from the circular chamber with helmeted and kilted Hoogan pikemen spaced between them, immobile as the gargoyles that peered from high niches. "His Arrokanze the Pishop has graziously blaced at your dispozal theze cozy quarters," the chamberlain said in a deep, hollow voice. "You may now zelect rooms on the floors above and array yourselves in the karments provided." "Look here, Mr. Odom-Glom," Ambassador Straphanger cut in, "Fve been thinking it over, and Fve decided that my staff and I will just nip back over to our ship for the night." "His Arrokanze will be egspectink you at the fete in the Ebiscobal Kardens in one hour's time," tte Hoogan bored on. "His Arrokamte tizlikes to be kept waitink." "Oh, we're all keenly aware of the honor His Arrogance has paid us in offering accomodations here in the Episcopal Palace, but -- " "One hour," Odom-Glom repeated, his voice echoing across the hall. He turned away, the symbolic chain attached to his neck clanking as he moved. He paused, turned back. "By the way, you are instrugted to iknore any small ah... indruzions. If you zee anything... unusual, zummon a guard at onzc." "Intrusions?" Straphanger repeated querulously. "What kind of intrusions?" "The balace," Odom-Glom said, "is haunted." F our twisting turns of a stone staircase above the reception hall. Second Secretary Magnan t toed at Retiefs side. They went along an echoing corridor, past black iron-bound doors and mouldy tapestries which were dimly visible in the light of a flambeau. "Quaint beliefs these bucolics entertain," Magnan said in a tone of forced heartiness. "Haunted indeed! How silly! Ha!" "Why are you whispering?" Relief inquired. "Just out of respect for the Bishop, of course." Magnan came to an abrupt halt, and clutched Relief's sleeve. "Wha-what's that?" he pointed. Along the corridor, something small and dark slipped from die shadow of a pilaster to the shelt of a doorway. "Probably just our imagination," Relief suggested. "But it had big red eyes," Magnan protested. "Tliey're as easy to imagine at any other kind." "I just remembered -- I left my shower cap in my hold baggage. Let's go back." Relief moved off. "It's just a few doors farther. Six, seven... here we are." He inserted the key OdomGlom's aide had provided. The heavy door swung open with a creak that descended Ae scale to a low groan. Magnan, hurrying forward, paused to stare at Ae nearest wailhanging which showed a group of Hoogans suspended head-down from spikes above leaping flames, while goblins of various shapes prodded Aem wiA long barb-tipped spears. "Curious how similar religious art is from one world to another," he commented. Inside the room, he stared around in dismay at the damp stone walls, the two spartan cots and carved devils which stood in the corners. "What perfectly ghastly quarters!" He dropped his suitcase and went over to prod the nearest bunk. hy, my spine will never endure this mattress! Fll be a physical wreck after the first night! And the draft -- I'm sure to catch a chill. And... and..." He broke off. Magnan raised a shaky finger to point at the darkest corner of the Barrow chamber where a tall, bugeyed demon carved from pale blue stone winked garnet eyes. "Retief! Something moved over there -- it was just like the devils in the pictures! All fuzzy red brisdes and eyes that glow in the dark!" Retief opened his suitcase. "If you see another one, throw a shoe at it. Right now, we'd better be getting into costume; compared with an aroused ambassador, a few devils are just friendly pets." H alf an hour later, after having sponged off at a stone sink, Magnan's eyes were still rolling nervously. He adjusted the folds of his Hoogan ceremonial sarong before #ie tarnished, rippled mirror. "I suppose it is just nerves," he aid. "It's all the fault of that Odom.Glom fellow anck his quaint native iuperstitions! I confess his remarks quite unnerved me for a moment." Across the room, Third Secretary Retief was loading match-head iz charges into the magazine of an inconspicuous handgun. "Probably just his way of warning us about the mice," he said. Magnan turned and caught a glimpse of the gun. "Here, Retief! What's that?" "Just a quaint native cure for spooks -- if they get too noisy." He tucked the gun out of sight under the Hoogan sarong. "Just think of it as a sort of good-luck charm, Mr. Magnan." "A knife up the sleeve is an old diplomatic tradition," Magnan said doubtfully. "But a power pistol under the sarong..." "I'll have it along in case something jumps out of the stonework and yells boo!" Retief said reassuringly. Magnan sniffed, admiring himself in the dark glass. "I was rather relieved when the ambassador insisted on native dress for the staff instead of ceremonial nudity for tonight's affair." He turned to study the hang of the uneven hemline that exposed his bare shins. "One of his finer moments, I fancied. He does cut an impressive figure, once his jowls get that purplish tinge. Not even Odom-Glom dared stand up to him. Though I do wish he'd gone just the one step further and demanded the right to wear trousers -- " He broke off, his eyes on the black drapes covering the high, narrow window. The heavy cloth twitched. "Retief!" he gasped. "There it is again!" "Shhh," Retief watched as the curtain moved again. A tiny redglowing bead appeared at its edge, a foot above the floor; a wire-thin kg emerged, and then another. A body like a ball of reddish fluff came into view, its red-bead eyes on two-inch stalks which tilted alertly lo scan the chamber. Its gaze fixed on Relief; it moved clear of the curtain, paused, then started toward him on skittery legs -- W ith a yell, Magnan dived for the door and flung it wide. "Guards! Help! Goblins! Spooks!" His voice receded along the hall, mingling with the clank of accoutrements, and the slap of wide Hoogan feet. The intruder hesitated at the outcry, dithered for a moment, then, emitting a cry like a goosed fairy, fumbled with two of its limbs at comething attached to its back. Beyond the door, Magnan's voice supplied a shrill counterpoint to the rumble of Hoogan questions. "Then get someone who speaks Terran!" he yelped. "At this moment my associate is being savaged by the monster!" Relief crossed quickly to the window, pulled the drapes aside and unlatched a panel, letting in a draft of damp night air. "This way out, fellow," he said. "You'd better get going before the cops arrive." The fluffball darted across the room and came to a shaky stop before Relief. He made quick, nervous motions. A folded square of paper fell to the floor at Retief s feet. Then the creature sprang for the opening and was gone as Hoogan feet clumped at the door. "Where Spism?" a heavy voice Jemantled in thick Terran. A conical Hoogan head in a flaring helmet swivelled to scan the room. Behind the guard, Magnan craned for a view. "Where is the beast?" he shrilled. "It was at least fourfeet high, and its tusks were fourinches long at the very leasti" The Hoogan advanced into the room. He pointed to the open window with his broad-headed sevenfoot pike. "It was a mouse after all," Redef said. "It got away." "You let Spism ko?" "Shouldn't I have?" Retief inquired mildly, pocketing the paper. "Spism bad imp from nether rechions; might bite Derry, get blood boizonink." "I think you're being impertinent," Magnan said sharply. "Biting Tcrrans is perfectly safe -- " The Hoogan turned to him, his pike lowered ominously. iC'lou will gome with me," it A ordered. "The benaldy for consortink with minions of Unterworlt is poilink in oil." "Here," Magnan said, backing up. "Stand back, my man -- " The Hoogan reached for Magnan with a long, snaky hand; Retief stepped up behind him, selected a spot, and struck a sharp blow with bunched fingertips. The guard stumbled, fell past Magnan, and hit chin first with a resounding slam. His pike shattered against the wall. "Retief!" Magnan gobbled. "What are you thinking of? You've laid hands on a member of the Episcopal Guard!" "I had the distinct impression th' this fellow hooked a toe on the ru imd fell down. BKdn't yoo notice" "Why, you know very well -- " "Just before he reached you M) Magnan." "Ah... why yes, now that yoi mention it, he did trip," Magnan' tone was suddenly brisk. "Nasty fall. I rushed up to support him, but alas, too late. Poor fellow. Served him right, the brute. Shall we go through his pockets?" "Why?" "You're right; there isn't time. That crash was doubtless heard throughout the palace." A second Hoogan appeared at the open door, his helmet bearing the fanged angel, which was indicative of officer rank. He eyed the fallen pikeman. "You addacked this one?" he demanded. Magnan glanced at the victim as though noticing him for the first time. "He seems to have fallen down," he observed brightly. "Against rules to kill Hoogan," the captain said ominously. "He... ah... broke his spear," Magnan pointed out helpfully. "Very bad crime, defile ceremonial spear," the captain said sternly. "Require burification zeremony. Very expenzive." Magnan fumbled in a money pouch at one hip. "I'd love to contribute a little something." "Ten Hoogan gredits, forget die whole thing. For extra five dizpose of body." The felled Hoogan stirred, mumbled, sat up. IF iiTTa!" the captain said. "Look  m like no teal. But for another extra five -- " he lifted a short, ugly club from his belt, " -- finish off unfortimate victim of Derry violence." "Stop!" Magnan yelled. "Are you out of your mind?" "Inzult to overseer castle briest cosd you two more gredits. For you I mage zpecial brice, three for five." "Bribery?" Magnan gasped. "Corruption?" "Three it is," the Hoogan nodded. "How about you?" he turned to Relief. "You short like other Derry?" "Look here, Fm paying you nothing!" Magnan barked. "Just assist this unfortunate chap out of here, if you please, and we'll get on with our dressing!" "Small religious contributions fine old Hoogan gustom!" the overseer protested. "You want to fiolate local tapoos?" "We Terrans have a few customs of our own," Relief put in smoothly. "We feel that graft should only be paid voluntarily." He offered a note which the officer palmed deftly. The guard was on his feet now, swaying. The captain barked an order, his subordinate gathered up the spear fragments, shot Magnan a poisonous look and departed, followed by the captain. Relief closed the door behind the departing visitors, fished out the scrap of paper dropped by the fleeing Spism and opened it. Magnan, busy at the mirror again, heaved a deep sigh. "Hardly an auspicious beginning," he commented. "Heavens! It's twenty-thirty! We're late!" He gave his sarong a final tug and smoothed a thinning lock across his forehead. He led the way along the echoing hall and down a spiral stair to an archway debouching onto wide steps above a ragged lawn. Blue lanterns hanging in the branches of skeletal trees shed a wan radiance on the fungus-like ornamental plants. Sculptures representing souls in torment, were placed near wide tables laden with Terran delicacies hastily unloaded from the Corps transport for the occasion. A dozen grotesquely shaped fountains spread a fine mist and an odor of sulphur across the festive scene. Beyond the high spike-topped wall, the ominous shape of an immense brass-colored idol reared up half a mile away. Its ferocious sculptured grin glowing in the glare of spotlights, its right arm raised in the Hoogan royal salute -- elbow straight out, forearm pointing up-' ward with fingers spread, the left hand gripping the right biceps. Magnan shuddered. "That beastly idol -- it's subHoogan," Magnan commented. "Isn't that smoke coming out of its nostrils?" Relief sniffed. "Something's bum' ing," he agreed. n A dark figure stepped from dense shadow at Magan's elbow.  #  Only old newsbabers you scent," it rumbled. "Our Hoogan Kods are uzeful; they serve as gommunity inzinerators." "Odom-Glom! You startled me!" Magnan chirped. He slapped at an insect that buzzed about his face. "I do hope the evening is a big success. It was so thoughtful of his Arrogance to allow the Corps to act as host tonight; such a gesture of acceptance -- sort of." "Reverze hosbitality iz an old Hoogan gustom," Odom-Glom said. "It would be a kood itea to know all our old Hoogan gustoms, zo az not to end up lige the lasd Derran Tiplomat." "Yes, it was unfortunate about Ambassador Straphanger's predecessor getting excommunicated, and all. But really, how was he to know he was supposed to fill the Episcopal begging bowl with hundred-credit notes,?" "It wasn't zo much not contributink; but pourink the canned beans in spoiled the bill His Arrokanze had planted as a hint." "A bad scene," Magnan agreed. "But I'm sure this evening will smooth everything over." The orchestra began tuning up and lugubrious notes groaned across the lawn. Armed Episcopal guards were taking up their posts, and sarong-clad diplomats were forming a receiving line by a stone arch opening through which the dignitaries would arrive. "I must hurry alonk now and zee to the kun emplazements," OdomGlom said. "One lasd suggestion: wordly goods of course mean nothing to His Arrokanze, but tha deadliest of the zinz is Ztinchinezz. His Arrokanze detests a tightwad." He moved off, chains clashing. "The ambassador's not out yet," Magnan noted nervously. "Gracious, I hope he puts in an appearance before Bishop Ai-Poppy-Googy arrives. I dread the prospect of having to engage His Arrogance in light chitchat." # A ccording to the Post Report, dealing with the Bishop is very simple," Relief said. "Just give him everything in sight, and if that doesn't satisfy him, give him some more." "I can see that you're finally getting the hang of diplomacy. Relief," Magnan said approvingly. "Still, I'm worried." "Since it's your job as protocol officer to soften up difficult guests," Relief #aid, "why not meet the Bishop at the gate and try out a few racy stories on him?" "I hardly imagine that the Chief of State of a Theocracy would react to biological anecdotes," Magnan said stiffly. "Oh, biology is a perfectly clean subject here on Hoog; but don't bring up cooking in polite conversation. According to the handbook, there's an unspoken agreement among the cultured element that the stork brings the goodies." "Really? Heavens, and all the cookies are stamped 'Made in Hong Kong'! I'll have to tell the cook to substitute blintzes. While I'm attending to that, you'd best take your post at the gate. You'll handle the IF first shift tonight. I'll send Stringwhistle along to relieve you in an hour." "I could delay the Bishop a few minutes for you," Retief offered, as they crossed to the gate. "Suppose I start by demanding to see his invitation." "None of your ill-timed japes, Retief! After the last mission's fiasco, establishing a friendly rapport with the Bishop tonight could mean promotions all around." "I think the traditional lawn party is a little too subtle for a fellow like the Bishop. We should have used a simple symbolism -- like a few rounds of heavy artillery lobbed into the palace grounds." "Hardly the diplomatic approach," Magnan sniffed. "For centuries now it's been understood that if enough diplomats go to parties, everything will come right in the end." "I wonder if the Hoogans understand that tradition?" "Certainly; after all, we're all fellow beings -- brothers under the skin, as it were." "In this case, the skin is an inch thick and tougher than armorplast. Fm not sure we can pentrate to the brotherhood layer in time to stop bloodshed." "Actually, I rather look forward to matching epigrams with His Arrogance tonight," Magnan said loftily, turning to scan the gardens. "As you know. I'm always at my sparkling best with high-ranking guests -- and, of course, mere size and strength fail utterly to intimidate me." Magnan turned at a sound behind him, uttered a strangled yelp, and trampled a Hoog waiter's foot as he leaped back from the spectacle of a seven-foot high, six-foot wide Hoog wrapped in cloth of gold. The monster's gilded features included one-inch nose holes, huge, watery, reddish eyes and a wide mouth set in a formal grimac to display polished gold-capped teeth. Two clusters of ringed fingers gripped the hilt of an immense two-edged sword. smells pat!" the apbellowed. He leaned forward, sniffed vigorously at Magnan and snorted. "Horriple!" he announced, elbowing Magnan aside. 'Ko away, vellow! You're invested with an acute P.O.!" "Why, Your Arrogance -- it's just a touch of skin bracer in back of ray ear." "It smelts like pargain night in a choy house. Where's Ambassador Hapstrinker? I drust you have blenty of food reaty. l unterstant you Berries take a kreat interesd in gooking." The Bishop winked a damp, pink eye, rammed Magnan under the ribs, and guffawed comfortably. "Oof!" Magnan said. "Why, Your Arrogance!" The Bishop was already striding toward the nearest table, his escort of armed and helmeted guards trailing behind, fingering scimitars and eyeing the diplomats suspiciously. "I... I think I'll just scoot along and see to the refreshments," Magnan bleated. "Retief, you accompany His Arrogance and keep him amused until help arrives -- I mean, # C Qomethink  parition until the ambassador puts in an iqpearance!" He fled. The Bishop dipped a boneless finger into a large crystal container of cheese sauce, studied it at arm's length, sniffed it, then, with a flick of a limber wrist, spattered it across the ruffled shirt fronts and glassy smiles of the diplomats strung out in the receiving line. "Who are these leavers?" he demanded loudly. "Bropaply relatives, waitink arount for handout. I have the zame proplem. Or had the zame proplem, I should zay. Two weeks ako was Zelf-Denial Feztival. I made the subreme sagrifize ant offered the entire lot to the anzestral spirids." "Giving up your relatives for Lent is quite an idea," Retief said. "It could catch on." The Bishop picked up a plate of dainty sandwiches, spilled the food off, sniffed the plate, and took a small bite. "I've heard a kreat teal about Derran tishes," he said, chewing noisily. "A bit too crizp, but not pat." He took a second nip from the thin porcelain and offered it to Retief. "Have a bite," he invited genially. "No thanks, I filled up on a beer bottle just before Your Arrogance arrived," Retief countered. "Try the dinner plates. They're said to be an epicure's delight." T here was a sudden stir from the vicinity of the wide terrace doors. Ambitious diplomatic underlings sprang to positions of eager anticipation, their delighted smiles ready. The squat figure of Carea IF Minister Straphanger, Terrestrial Ambassador Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to Hoog waddled into view, stylishly decked out in a short but heavily brocaded Hooall but dragged the ground, and jeweled sandals. At his side puffed a companion of almost identical, build and garb, distinguished only by a mop of vivid orange hair. Magnan trailed by two yards. "Ah, the ambassador is twints?" the Bishop inquired, moving toward the approaching pair. "No, that's Mrs. Straphanger," Retief said. "If I were Your Arrogance I'd ditch that saucer; i she's fierce when aroused." "Ah, the edernal female, ever conzerned with food gonzervation." The Bishop tossed a crust of the plate in back of a flowering bush. "Ah, there, Ambassador Strakhumper!" he bellowed. "And your charmink cow! She will be litterink zoon, I trust?" "Littering? How's that?" Straphanger stared around in confusion. "I azzume you keep your cows pregnant?" the Bishop boomed. "Or possibly thiz one is over-aged. Bud no matter; doubtless she waz a gread broducer in her day." "Well, I never!" Mrs. Straphanger snapped, bridling. "By the way," Ai-Poppy-Googy went on, "I hate to disguss finanzes over food, zo I suggesd we deal with the broplem of an abbrobriate kift ad onze. I am of gourse quite brebared to vorget the drivial misunterstantink with the former ampassator ant agcepd any zum in egquibblink." er babbled. "Gift?" "Of gourse, if you wish to avoid aquirink a reputation az a piker, an amiss." But... but whatever for?" "Ah, ah," the Bishop waggled an admonitory tactile member. "No pryink into Hoogan internal matters!" "Oh, no, indeed, Your Arrogance! I only meant... what's the occasion? For the gift. I mean." "It's Tuesday." "Oh." The Bishop nodded placidly. "Luggy you didn't throw thiz affair on Wentsday; thad's douple gifd day." He plucked a glass from a tray offered by a bearer, emptied the contents on the lawn and nipped a chip from the edge with his polished metallic teeth, munching thoughtfully. "Lackink in flavor," he commented. #V Ty best crystal," Mrs. StrapiVl hanger gasped. "All the way from Brooklyn, yet, and like a goat he's eating it!" "A koat?" The Bishop eyed her suspiciously. "I don't belief I know the term." "It's a... a sort of gourmet," Straphanger improvised. Sweat was glistening on his forehead. "Known for its discriminating tastes." "Now, about the matter of a bension," the Bishop continued. m aee no neet of oztentation. A mere thousant a day would suvvize as a token of Corps czteem." "A thousand what a day?" The ambassador inquired around a frozen diplomatic grm which exposed old-fashioned removable dentures. "Credits, of gourse. And then there is the matter of zupzidies to Hoogan industry; zay vivty thousant a month. Ton'd give a thoughd to atminisdration; just make the cheggs payaWe to me perzonally -- " "Hoogan industry? But I was given to understand there are no industries here on Hoog." "That's why we reguire a zupzidy," the Bishop said blandly. Straphanger hitched his smile in place with an effort. "Your Arrogance, I'm here merely to establish friendly relations, to bring Hoog into the mainstream of Galactic cultural life -- " "What coult be frientlier than money?" the Bishop inquired in a loud, final-sounding voice. "Well," Straphanger conceded, "we might arrange a loan -- " "An oudright krant iz zo much zimpler," the Bishop pointed out. "Of course, it would mean extra staff, to handle the administrative load." Straphanger rubbed his hands together, a speculative gleam in his eye. "Say twenty-five for a start." The Bishop turned as a mediumsized Hoog in tight, black and silver vestments came up, growled in his ear and waved a rubbery arm toward the house. "What?" the Bishop exploded. He swivelled on Straphanger. "You are harporink tapoo greatures? Givink aid and gomfort to untesirable elements? Sharink your zubstanze with minions of the opposition?" Arrogance!" Straphanger's voice quavered against the rising roar of the outraged cleric. "I don't understand! What did that fellow say?" The Bishop bawled commands in Hoogan. His escort scattered and began beating the bushes which rimmed the garden. The ambassador trotting at his side, the guest of honor strode to the laden refreshment tables, and began stuffing in fragile china, muttering to himself. "Your Arrogance," Straphanger panted. "If I could just have some explanation! I'm sure it's all just a ghastly mistake! What are these men searching for? I assure you -- " "Out of the gootnezz of my heart I welgomed you to Hoog!" the Bishop roared. "As a great gompliment to you, I abzorbed your language! I was even ready to agzept cash, the zubreme chesture! And now I find that you openly gonzort with the enemies of the Kods!" Standing on the sidelines of the verbal fray. Relief glanced around the garden. He spotted a fountain in the shape of a two-headed Hoogan dwarf with oversized teeth and belly, and moved over to it. There was a tug at his sandal lace. He looked down. Two bright eyes at the ends of wirelike stalks stared up appealingly from a clump of grass. He glanced around -- all eyes were on the Bishop. "Arc you looking for me?" Relief asked softly. IF "Right!" a squeaky voice piped. You're a hard man to have a quiet hat with, Mr... ahh." "Retief." "How do, Retief. My name's Jackspurt. The boys appointed me okesman to tell you Terries about what's going on. After all, I guess # Spism's got a few rights, too." "If you can explain what's going an in this filbert factory. I'll be forever in your debt, Jackspurt. Speak your piece." "It's the Hoogans; they don't give HI a minute's peace. Talk about persecution! Do you know those OBalm-singing hippos are blaming us lor everything from sour milk to loss of potency? It's getting where Ws not safe to take a stroll after sundown." "Hold on, Jackspurt. Maybe jFou'd better fill me in on some background. Who are you? Why are the Hoogans after you? And where did you learn to speak Terran with that flawless enunciation of consonants?" CiT used to be a mascot on a TerX ry trader; I stowed away when she landed here for emergency acpairs. It was a great life; but after a wjiile I got homesick for good old Hoog -- ' you know how it is -- " "You're a native of this charming world?" "Sure -- us Spism's have been around longer than the Hoogs. And wc got along for thousands of years with no trouble. The Hoogs took the surface, and we settled in nice and omfy underground. Then they got religion and it's been hell ever since." "Hold on, Jackspurt. I always heard that religion exercised a beneficent influence on those fortunate enough to possess it." "That depends on which side you're on." "That's a point." "But I haven't given you the big picture yet. These Hoogan priests launched a full-scale propaganda campaign -- painted up a lot of religious art with pictures of Spisms poking pitchforks at Hoogs, and pretty soon it got so even the average Hoog in the street started jumping and making X's in the air and mumbling spells everytime one of us came up for a breath of fresh air. The next thing we knew, it was fullscale war! I'm telling you, Retief, us Spisms are in bad shape -- and it's gotta get worse!" A guard was working his way toward the ogre fountain. "Jiggers, the gendarmes," Retief said. "You'd better get out of sight, Jackspurt. They're beating the bushes for you. Why don't we continue this later." The Spism whisked back under cover. "But this is important, Retief!" Jackspurt's voice emanated from the brush. "The boys are counting on me." "Shh! Watch me and take your cue." Magnan had turned and was eyeing Retief suspiciously. He stepped to his junior's side. "Retief, if you're mixed up in this mix-up..." "Me, Mr. Magnan? Why, I just arrived this afternoon the same time you did." 'Magnan!" Straphanger's voice cut through ihe hubbub. "The Bishop informs me that some sort of demonic creature was seen here on the Embassy grounds this evening! Of course we know nothing about it, but His Arrogance has drawn the unfortunate implication that we're consorting with denizens of the netherworld!" He lowered his voice as Magnan drew close. "Superstitious poppycock, but we've got to play along. You and the others spread out and go through a show of looking for this mythical imp. I'll pacify His Arrogance." #ertainly, Mr. Ambassador. But... ah... what if we find it?" "Then you're an even greater idiot than I suspect!" Straphanger twisted his working smile into position and turned back to the Bishop. "Relief, you start along there," Magnan indicated the front of the house. "I'll go poke about in the bushes. And whatever you do, don't turn up anything -- like that ghastly creature we encountered upstairs." A startled look spread across his face. "Good Lord, Relief! Do you suppose -- ?" "Not a chance. I picture something more like a medium-sized dragon." "Still... perhaps I'd better mention it to the. ambassador." "And confirm the Bishop's opinion? Very courageous of you. Mind tf I stick around and watch?" "On the other hand, he's a busy man," Magnan said hurriedly. "After all, why bother him with trivia?" He hurried off to take up a position near the Bishop and make a show of stooping and peering among the conifer-like hedges. Relief sauntered back to the table, deserted now except for a lone Hoogan bearer at the far end gathering empties onto a wide tray and tossing damp paper napkins into a capacious waste-paper receptacle. Relief picked up an empty sandwich plate, said "hsst!" The Hoogan looked up as Relief tossed the plate, dropped the big paper bag and caught the tossed crockery. # T Tere's some more," Relief of-tX fered helpfully. He gathered up and handed over a pair of saucers, three empty glasses and a couple of cheese sandwiches each minus one bite. "You'd better hump along now and police up behind His Arrogance," he suggested. "He's leaving a trail of saucer rims behind him -- doesn't seem to like the floral design." "You dry dell me my chop?" the Hoogan demanded truculently as Relief fumbled a spoon and let it drop to the grass just under the edge of the hanging table cloth. "Certainly not, old boy," Retid! reassured the glowering local. He stopped for the spoon, caught a glimpse of an eye peering from the shadows. "Get in the bag," he hissed from the comer of his mouth. "Who you talg to?" the servant ducked and stared under the table. Behind him, the paper-trash container rustled softly as the Spism whisked into it m IF "Just addressing a few words to the spoon god," Relief said blandly. "Bad luck to drop a spoon, you know." "Yes?" the Hoogan said. He leaned against the table, got out a much-used toothpick and began plying it on his unpolished teeth. "You voreigners kot grazy iteas. Efrypoty know kood lug trob sboon, bat lug trob forg." He carefully examined the tip of the toothpick. "Back home, falling from a tenstory building is considered an inauspicious omen," Relief rambled on, watching the armed Episcopal Guards as they worked closer. One came over to the table, gave Relief a sharp look, thrust his head under the table, and then reached down to check the paper-trash container. "How about a little refreshment?" Relief picked up a cup, dipped it full from a bowl of thick purple punch, took a step toward the warrior and seemed to trip; the sticky fluid struck the Hoogan just below the clasp holding the rainbow-hued cape, spread out in an interesting pattern across his polished breastplate. The bearer grabbed up his tray and bag and backed off hurriedly as the spluttering guard slapped limber fingers at the purple mess. "Itiot! Clumpsy oaf!" he choked angrily. "What? Boozink on tudy?" a vast voice boomed. The Bishop bellied past Relief, planted himself before the confused Hoogan. "The benalty is boilink in oil!" he roared. "Take him away!" IV O ther guardsmen closed in and grabbed their unfortunate fellow. "That was my fault. Your Arrogance," Relief started. "I offered him -- " "You would inderfere with the Ebiscobal administration of justize?" the Bishop bellowed, turning on Retief. "You have the demerity to sugchest that the Ebiscobal judgment is fallible?" "Not exactly; you're just wrong," Relief said. "I spilled the punch on him." The Bishop's face purpled; his mouth worked. He swallowed. "It's ben zo long zinze anyone condratieded me," he said mildly, "that I've vorkotten tibe bunishment." He waved two fingers in blessing. "You are apzolved, my zon," he said airily. "In vact, I apzolv you for the whole weekent. Have fun; it's on the house." "Why, isn't that gracious of His Arrogance," Magnan chirped, popping up beside the Bishop. "What a pity we didn't find the demon; but I -- " "That reminds me," the Bishop said ominously. He fixed an eye on Ambassador Straphanger as die senior diplomat came up. "I'm still waitink for results!" "Look here. Your Arrogance! How can we find a demon if there's no demon here?" "That's your broblem!" There was a yell from the gate. Two guards were man-handling the bearer with the waste-paper bag, who jerked away, making indignant noises. The bag fell, split open, which the fugitive Spism burst, sending scraps flying in every direction. With a bound, it was past the astonished guards and heading for the rear gate. More guards appeared in its path, jerking long-barrelled guns from tooled holsters. A shot seared a long gouge in the deep grass, narrowly missing other Episcopal retainers dashing up to get a crack at the action. The Bishop yelled, waving his boneless arms. C ut off, the Spism veered, dashed from the house, but was met by a squad charging out from inside. A near-miss smashed dishes on the table behind Magnan, who yelped and hit the dirt. The Spism skittered, took evasive action, headed for the flower-decked gate letting out onto the drive. The guards were all behind it now, the way clear. With a tremendous yell, Bishop Ai-Poppy-Googy whipped his giant sword out and leaped to intercept the fleeing creature. As he bounded past Retief, the latter pivoted, and thrust out a foot. He hooked the Espiscopal leg just above a flare-topped, bejeweled pink leather shoe. His Arrogance dived forward, struck medals-first, and skidded on his face under the table. "Why, hi there," Magnan's voice piped under the muffling canopy of the drooping tablecloth. "Just a minute, and FU scroonch over -- " Tlie Bishop roared and rose up, the table lifting with him; dishes, glasses, and food cascaded off on Magnan, who was still crouching on the groimd. With a surge, the Bishop hurled the board aside and roared again, while whirling to confront the dancing figure of Ambassador Straphanger, o flapped a napkin at the mud on the ornate conicals of the guest of honor. "Treazonl" Ai-Poppy-Googy bellowed. "AzzazzintsI Murderers! Achents of the Unterworlt! Obstructors of chustisti Heretics!" "Now, now. Your Arrogance! Don't get upset -- " "Upzet! This iz maybe a choke?" The Bishop dashed the muddied cloth from Straphanger's hand. He bent down, snatched up his sword and waved it overhead. The Episcopal Guard was closing in quickly now. "I hereby eggsgommunigate the lot of you!" the Bishop yelled. "No food, no water, no bolice brotectionl Alzo, you will be puplicly eggsecuted! Boys, round zem up!" Guns were suddenly leveled at the huddle of diplomats surrounding the ambassador. Magnan yelped. Straphanger's wattles quivered. "Ton'd miss this one!" Ai-PoppyGoogy indicated Retief. "It was hds foot I fell over!" A guard poked a gun into Retief s side. # # # h, I think Your Arrogance is forgetting that Mr. Retief has an Episcopal dispensation," Straphanger said brightly. "Retief, if you'll just run along to my office and send out a code two-oh-three -- or is it three-oh-two -- or -- anyway, a call for aitch ee ell pee -- " "He'll ko along with the rest of you scoundrels!" the Bishop yelled you to write a few chegs in your Half a dozen armed Hoogans were zell before the eggzecution?" herding the remainder of the staff "Oh, Fm afraid that wouldn't do up to join the group now. at all, Your Arrogance. I need the "Any more insite?" Embassy seal, and the check verify"No, Your Arrokants," the caping machine, and the code books tain of the guard reported. "Only and -- " a few zervants." "Well... bossibly I might make "Foil them in oil for azzociatink an egzeption; I'll defer punishment with azzazzints! As for the rest of until the cash arrives." you -- " "Sorry, Your Arrogance, but I "Your .Arrogance," Straphanger wouldn't ask you to deviate from ke up. "Naturally, I don't mind tradition just to accommodate me. dying, if its Your Arrogance's pleasNo, we're all excommunicated, so lire, but then we won't be able to I suppose we may just as well get give you the gifts and things, will comfortable and start starving -- " we?" "Holt it! Don't rush me! Who's "Tamn!" Ai-Poppy-Googy threw doing the eggsgommunigatink, you his sword down, narrowly missing or me?" Magnan's foot. "I forgot about the "Oh, you are." gifts!" He looked thoughtful. "Look, "Brecizely! And I zay you're not zuppose I make arranchmends for eggsgommunigatedi" The Bishop #J stared around truculently. "Now, about the gifd! You can deliver the pened to pring an armored gar alonk -- " "This is touple-gift day." "But you said Wednesday was double-gih day. This is only Tuesday." iiTt's now Wentsday, by Ebiscobal X decree," the Bistu said, raising his sword. "But you can't -- I mean, how ean you?" "Calendar reform," Ai-PoppyGoogy said. "Lonk overdue." "Well, I suppose it could be arranged." "Kood! I herepy grant you an Ebiscobal rebrieve. Put that toesn't inglude the resd of these untesireaples!" the Bishop waved a hand. "Dake them away, poys!" "Ah... I'm grateful for the pardon, I'm sure," Straphanger said, gaining confidence rapidly; "but of course I won't be able to process the paper work properly without my staff." Ai-Poppy-Googy glared with large, damp red eyes. "All right! Keep them! They're all rebrieved egzebd thad one!" He aimed a finger at Relief like a gun. "I have sbezial blans for him!" the guards shifted their attention to Relief ringing him in with aimed guns. "Maybe His Arrogance would be just a teeny bit lenient this time," Magnan suggested, dabbing at a smear of liver paste along his bare arm, "if Mr. Relief apologized and promised never to do it again." "Do whad akain?" the Bishop demanded. "Trip you," Magnan said. "You know, like he did just now." "He dribbed me?" Ai-PoppyGoogy choked. "On burpose?" "Why, ah, it must have been a mistake -- " Straphanger started. "Your Arrogance has such a keen sense of humor. I'm sure you'll sec the comic aspect of it, if you just think about it," Magnan offered. "Relief! Did you -- I mean, surely you didn't." Straphanger choked. "Well!" Magnan said indignantly. "I was lying right there." "Zearch him!" the Bishop bellowed. Guards jumped forward; busy hands grabbing at Reliefs kiltpockets, almost at once came upon the folded paper the Spism had dropped as it fled his room. "Ah-hah!" the Bishop pounced. He opened the paper and read the message. "A gonsbirazy!" he yelled. "Unter my very nose! Put the ironts on him!" #T must protest!" Straphanger X spoke up. "You can't go about chaining up diplomats every time a little indiscretion is committedi Leave the matter to me. Your Arrogance; I'll see that a sharp entry goes in his record." "The Kods will nod be denied their tue!" Ai-Poppy-Googy roared. "Domorrow is the Krant Vestifal of Wentstay -- " "Tomorrow's Thursday," Magnan interjected. IF "Domorrow is Wentstay! Today is Wentstay! I herepy teclare a whole weeg of Wentstays, plast itJ Now, as I was sayink -- this Derran will bartizibate in the vestifal! Zuch is the holy will! No more arkuments!" "Oh, he'll be taking part in a ceremony!" Straphanger said in a relieved tone. "Well, goodness, I suppose we can spare him long enough for that." He offered a small diplomatic chuckle. "The Corps is always ready to promote worship in whatever form, of course." "The only drue Kods are the Hookan Kods, py the Kods!" the Bishop boomed. "Any more of your Derran heresy and I'll refersc my tisbenzation! Now dake thiz one to the demple and brebare him vor the rides of Wentstay! The resd of you will remain imter arresd, undil the will of the Kods is known!" "Mr. Ambassador," Magnan quavered, tugging at Straphanger's arm, "do you think you should allow them -- " "Merely letting His Arrogance save face," Straphanger said in a confidential tone. He winked at Relief. "Don't worry, my boy; good experience for you. You'll get an inside view of the Hoogan religions concept at work!" "But -- but, what if they... I mean, boiling in oil is so permanent,' Magnan persisted. "Quiet, Magnan! I'll have no whiners in my organization!" "Thanks for thinking of me, Mr. Magnan," Relief said. "I still have my good-luck charm." "Charm?" Magnan looked blank. "Witchgraft?" the Bishop boomed. "I zuzbegted as much!" He turned a large, red eye on Straphanger. "I'll pe zeeing you at the zercmony! Ton'd pe lade!" He eyed Retief. "Are you goming beazevully?" "In view of the number of guns aimed at me," Relief said, "I sincerely hope so." V r ie cell was narrow, dark, damp, and unfurnished except for a plain table with a bottle of bittersmelling wine and a narrow bendi on which Relief sat. His wrists were chained together, and he was listening to a muffled tapping whidi sounded faintly from beyond the walls. It had been going on now for twelve hours, he estimated -- long enough for the Hoogans to have completed their preparations for the religious ceremonies in which he was to play a part. The tapping abruptly changed tone and sounded louder, nearer. There was a light clatter, as of pebbles tossed on the floor. A moment later, there was a soft scraping sound, a rasping like fingernails on a blackboard; then silence. "Relief, are you there?" a this voice chirped through the pitdi darkness. "Sure, Jackspurt! Come on ki and join the pjuty. I'm glad to see you eluded the gendarmes." "Those slobs! Hah. But listen. Relief, I've got bad news." "Press on, Jackspurt; I'm listening." "This is Festival Day -- and (Md Googy's scheduled the big all-out push for today, to tie in with the miimbo-jumbo. The Hoogs have been building this king-size fumigatoi for months -- stacking it full of rubbish, old rags, worn-out tires, and what not. At the height of the big ceremony they set the stuff on fire and start the smoke-pumps going. They got a system of pipes laid out leading into the burrows, see? There won't be a safe spot for Spisms for miles around. Our boys will come stampeding out of their hideaways, some of which have been in the family for generations, and zowie! the Bishop's troops lower the boom! It'll be the finish of us Spisms!" "That's a heart-rending story, JaeV spurt -- or it would be, if I weren't in such a heart-rending position myself at the moment." "Yeah, the Wednesday Rites. You scheduled for the matinee or the big evening spectacular?" Jackspurt broke off as clankings sounded from beyond the door. "Holy Moses, Relief! Time's up! They're here! Listen, I was supposed to brief you in, like, but it took longer'n I figured tunneling through that wall, and then I got to yakking -- " A key scraped in the keyhole. "Listen! Did you drink any of what's in the bottle?" "No." "Good! It's doped! When I leave, dump it! You'll have to pretend you can't talk or the jig's up! Put on a kind of zombie routine, see? Whatever they tell you -- do it! If they get the idea you're putting something over, it's zkkk! for every Terry on Hoog! And remember! Keep your head down and your arms and legs tucked in -- " The lock turned with a rasp of rusty tumblers. "Gotta go! Good luck!" Jackspurt scrambled and was gone. R elief took a step, grabbed up the bottle, poured it down the three-inch hole through which his visitor had fled. Light blazed as the heavy door swung inward. Three hooded Hoogan pikemen came into the cell, followed by a black-robed priest. Relief stood holding the empty bottle, his body concealing Jackspurt's escape route. "How to you veel, Derry?" the priest inquired, looking Relief over. He stepped in, thumbed Reliefs eyelid up, grunted, and took the empty bottle from his hand. "Goked to the eyeprows," he stated. "Arc you zure?" a pikeman challenged. "I ton'd drust these voreigners." "Nadurally I'm zure; the hypervasgulations of the subraoccibital whatchamagallids is dypical; a glassic gase. Dake him alonk." Hemmed in by pikes, Relief followed along a torch-lit passage, up winding stone stairs, to emerge abruptly into blinding light and the susurrus of a multitude of voices, above which one rose like the boom of surf: "... azzure you, my tear Ampassador Hipstinker, our brinzibal tiety, Uk-Ruppa-Tooty, is nod only a IF hantzome degoration and a gonstand icminter to the bobulaze that the ncxd tithe is tue -- he also broduzes oragular stadements rekularly effry Wentstay at one B. M. Of gourse, it is nod always kiven to us to untcrsdant whad he's dalkink apout, bud the evvegd on the beasandry is most zaludory." Squinting against the sudden sunlight, Retief made out the resplendcntly robed figure of the Bishop, seated under a vast parasol on a massive throne of dark wood carved with designs of intertwined serpents. He was flanked on the left by the Terran Ambassador and on the right by a huddle of lesser diplomates. The group was ringed in by stonyfaced Hoogan guards with bared scimitars. The priest who had accompanied Retief bowed unctiously before the Episcopal throne. "Your Arrokanze, the #n-to-pe-Alefated One is here," he indicated Retief with a wave of the hand. "Is he... ah... #" Ai-PoppyGoogy looked inquiringly at the escort. "A glassig gase of hypervasgulations of the thinkamapops," a pikeman spoke up. "Foil thad one in oil," the Bishop said, frowning. "He dalgs doo mudge." "You appear a bit peaked. Relief," Straphanger commented. "I trust you slept well last night? Comfortable quarters and all that?" Retief stared absently past the ambassador's left ear. "Retief, the ambassador's addressing you," Magnan said sharply. "Brobably he's losd in metitations," Ai-Poppy-Googy said hastily. "On with the zeremony." "Perhaps he's sick," Magnan said. "Here, you'd better sit down." "Ah-ah," Ai-Poppy-Googy held up a limber hand. "The mosd imbortand bortion of the zeremony yed remaints to pe zeleprated." "Ah, yes, of course," Straphanger sat back. "I'd quite forgotten, Your Arrogance." He glanced around. "We'll have a magnificent view of the proceedings from here." At a prod from an Episcopal Guard, Retief turned -- and found himself staring directly into the vast brass smile of the Hoogan idol. F rom Retiefs elevated viewpoint atop the two-hundred foot high ziggurat, the head of the god reared up another fifty feet. It was an immense stylized Hoogan face of polished yellow metal, the vast hand upraised beside it. The eyes were deep hollows at the back of which a sullen red glow gave an impression of malignant intelligence. The noseholes, a yard each in diameter, drooled a thin trickle of smoko which coiled up past soot-streaked cheeks to dissipate in the clear air. The mouth which split the massive head, gaped in a crocodile smile set with spade-shaped teeth with spaces between them beyond which was visible a curve of polished esophagus agleam with leaping reflections from inner fires below. Two lesser priests stepped forward to hang assorted ornaments on Retiefs shoulders and neck. Another taking up a position before him. intoned a repetitious chant. Somewhere, drums commenced a slow tattoo. A murmur passed over the crowd packing the slopes of the ziggurat and the plaza below. Standing at ease, apparently ignoring his surroundings, Retief noted a twofoot wide trough cut in the stone platform at his feet, deepening and slanting down as it ran to the abrupt drop-off ten yards distant. An acolyte was busy pouring oil into the hollow and spreading it with swipes of his hands. "Just what does this phase of the ceremonial involve?" Straphanger inquired in a tone of synthetic diplomatic interest. "Waid and zee," Ai-Poppy-Googy said shortly. "Mr. Ambassador," Magnan whispered hoarsely. "His hands are chained!" "Part of the ceremony, no doubt." "And that groove," Magnan went on. "It runs from Retief right over to the edge... just above that horrible ig-bay outh-may." "Yes, yes, you needn't play the part of a tourist guide, Magnan. By the way," Straphanger lowered his voice, "you didn't happen to bring along a hip flask, I suppose?" "Why, no, Mr. Ambassador. I have a nice antiviral nasal spray, if that would help. But about that chute -- " #Tlarm, isn't it. Your Arro  gance?" Straphanger turned to the Bishop. "A bit dry, too." "You ton'd lige our Hoogan weather?" the Bishop asked in an ominous tone. "No, no, it's fine. I love it when it's nice and hot and dry." "Ah, Your Arrogance," Magnan spoke up. "Just what is it you have in mind doing with Retief?" "Iz kreat honor," the Bishop said. "I'm sure we're all delighted at this opportunity for one of onr group to get an inside view of the Hoogan religious philosophy," Straphanger said sharply. "Now kindly sit down and stop that infernal chattering," he added behind his hand. The Bishop was speaking quickly in Hoogan; the attendant priests urged Retief forward a step, grasped his arms and deftly placed him face-down in the oiled channel. The rattle of the drums rose to a crescendo. Flabby Hoogan hands shoved Retief forward down the steepening slope. "Mr. Ambassador!" Magnan's voice rose to a shrill bleat. "I do believe they're feeding him to that monster!" "Nonsense, Magnan!" Straphanger's suety voice countered. "It's all symbolic, I'm sure. And I might point out that you're hardly conducting yourself like a seasoned diplomat." "Stop!" Retief, sliding rapidly toward the edge, heard Magnan's yelp and the scuffle of rapid footsteps. There was a wet splat! and bony elbows slammed against him. He twisted, caught a glimpse of Magnan's white face, open mouth and clutching hands as together they shot over the edge and out in a graceful arc toward the waiting jaws of Uk-Ruppa-Tooty. VI K eep your arms and legs tucked in, Jackspurt had said; Relief bad time to grit his teeth -- then he was hurtling past the tombstonesized fangs, Magnan's hands still clutehing his legs. They dropped down into a blast of searing heat and light, then suddenly, stunningly, they slammed against and through a yielding, shredding network of filaments as fine as spiderwebs. Relief came to a stop, rebounded, caught at a heavier cable that brushed his hand, and was clinging to a coarse rope ladder, Magnan's weight dangling from his heels. "Bullseye!" a tiny voice screeched almost in his ear. "Now let's get out of here fast, before they dope out what happened!" Relief found a foothold in the snarl of rope, reached down and hauled the rag-limp second secretary to his side. The heat from below was scorching, even here in the shelter of a bulge in the god's throat. "Wha-what-bu-bu -- " Magnan babbled, groping for a handhold. "Hurry up, Retiefi" Jackspurt urged. "Up here by the tonsils! It's a secret passage!" Relief assisted Magnan in scrambling up. He boosted him into the narrow, circular burrow that ran back through the solid metal. The Spism in the lead, they moved hurriedly away from the sound of priestly voices raised in puzzled inquiry, reached a set of cramped steps leading down. "We're okay now," Jackspurt said. "Take a breather, and then we'll go down and meet the boys." Later they were in a cavern floOTed with rough masonry, and lit by a burning wick afloat in a shallow bowl of aromatic oil. All around, twitching Spism eye-stalks stared al the intruders; the close-packed red goblin-forms of Jackspurt and his clan moved restlessly, like giant fiddler crabs on some subterranean beach. Behind them, tall, pale-blue cousins poised on yard-long legs, watched from shadowy corners. In niches and crannies in the walls, tiny green Spisms and sluggish orange forms with white spots clung, gazing. Dark purple Spisms, dangling from the ceiling like tumorous stalactites, waved their free legs hypnotically, studying the scene. Magnan's fingers dug into Retiefs arm. "G-great heavens, Retiefi" he gasped out. "You -- you don't suppose we've died and that my Aunt Minerva was right all along?" "Mr. Relief, meet the boys," Jackspurt clambered up to perch on a ledge overlooking the gathering. "A lot of them are pretty shy, but they're a good-natured bunch, always a thousand laughs. When they heard you was in trouble, they all joined in to help out." #'eli them Mr. Magnan and A I said thanks," Relief said. "It was an experience we wouldn't have missed. Right, Mr. Magnan?" "I'd certainly never miss it," Magnan swallowed audibly. "H-how is it you can talk to these hobgoblins. Relief?" he hissed. "You haven't... ah... made some sort of pact with the powers o# darkness, I trost?" "Hey, letief," Jackspurt said. Yoor #fieiid got some kind of race prejudice or something?" "Heavens, no," Magnan said in a strangled voice. "Some of my best friends are fiends -- I mean, in our profession, one meets -- " "Mr. Magnan is just a little confused," Retief put in. "He didn't expect to be playing such an active role in today's events." "Speaking of active, we better get you gents, back to the surface fast," lackspurt said. "The pumps will be starting up any minute now." "Where are you going when the fumigation begins?" "We got an escape route mapped out through the sewers that ought to bring "US out in the clear a couple miles from town. We're just hoping Ihe Hoog don't have the outfall staked out." "Where are these smoke pumps located?" Retief asked. "Up above -- in Uk-RuppaTooty's bcRy." "Who's manaing them?" "A couple of priests. Why?" "How do we get there from here?" "Well, there's a couple passages -- but we bettw not waste any time ftght-seeing." "Retief, ase you out of your mind?" Magnan blurted. "If the priests see us, our goose will be eooked, along with the rest of our anatomies I" "We'll try to make it a point to see them first. Jackspurt, can you get a couple of doaea vcunteers?" "You mean to climb up in that brass god? I don't know, Retief. The fellas are pretty superstitious." "We need them to make a diversion while Mr. Magnan and I carry out the negotiation -- " "Who, me?" Magnan squeaked. "Negotiation?" Jackspurt protested. "Jumping Jehosophat, how can you negotiate with a Hoog?" "Ahem," Magnan cleared his throat. "That, Mr. Jackspurt, is after all one's function as a diplomat." "Well..." Jackspurt buzzed briefly to his fellows, then hopped down from his perch as a dozen Spisms of assorted sizes and colors came forward. "We're game, Mr. Retief. Let's go!" T he dull gleam of the metal walls of the vast chamber that was the interior of the god Uk-RuppaTooty loomed out of dense shadow where Retief and Magnan crouched with their hobgoblin crew. At the center of the gloomy chamber, lowcaste Hoogans labored before the open door of a giant, red-glowing furnace, tossing in armloads of rubbish, old shoes, bundled magazines, and broken plastic crockery. A layer of harsh, eye-watering smoko hung in the air. Jackspurt snorted. "Boy, when they start pumping that stuff into the burrows..." "Where are the priests?" Retief inquired in a whisper. Jackspurt pointed to a small cubicle at the top of a flight of steps. "Up there, in the control room." Retief studied the layout. "Jackspurt, you and your men spread out around the room. Give me five minutes. Then take turns jumping out and making faces." Jackspurt gave instructions to his crew; they faded away into the darkness. "Maybe you'd better wait here," Retief suggested to Magnan. "Where are you going?" "I think I'd better have a chat with the ecclesiaslics up in the prompting box." "And leave me here alone, surrounded by these ghoulish Spisms?" "All right, but keep it quiet or the smoke of burning diplomats will be added to the other fumes." Fifty feet above the floor, Retief gripped narrow handholds, working his way around to the rear of the control box. Through the dusty windows a blue-robed Hoogan priest could be seen lounging in a bored attitude, studying a scroll. A second Hoogan, in the familiar black, stood nervously by. Suddenly the silence below was broken by a mournful wail. "What's that!" Magnan jumped, slipped and grabbed for a secure grip on a projecting angle-iron supporting a narrow catwalk. "Our co-workers going into action." Retief said softly. Beside the furnace door, the Hoogan workers were staring around nervously. There was another doleful moan. One of the Hoogans dropped his shovel and muttered. Retief ducked back as the blue-robed priest came to the window and peered down below. He then motioned to the other, who went to the door of the tiny chamber, opened it, stepped out on the catwalk and shouted down to the workers. One answered in defiant tones. Two of the workers started toward a door dimly visible at the far side of the furnace room. The priest shouted after them; as his bellow faded and echoed, the thin hoot of a Spism sounded, like the last wail of dying hope. The priest jumped and whirled to dart back inside the control room. He slipped, fell from the catwalk and found himself staring directly into Magnan's startled face. He opened his mouth to roar -- M agnan whipped off his mauve cummerbund and thrust it into the gaping mouth. With a muffled grunt, the Hoogan lost his grip, fell, and slammed into the heaped rubbish with a tremendous slam. The stokers fled, shouting. The lone priest flattened his face against the window, peering down into the gloom. With a quick movement, Retief gained the catwalk, and stepped through the door. The priest whirled and leaped for a microphone-like device on the corner table. Retief cased the power pistol from his sarong and aimed it at the priest. T wouldn't make any announcements just yet," he said. "The results aren't all in." "Who are you?" The Hoogan sidled toward a corner cabinet. "If that's where you keep your prayer books, better let them lie for a while yet." "Look here, berhabs you are unaware thad I am His Voracity, the Deacon Um-Moomy-Hooby, ant I have gonnegtions -- " "Doubtless. And don't try for the door; I have a confederate out there who's noted for his ferocity," Retief said. Magnan came through the door, panting. Um-Moomy-Hooby backed away. "Whad -- whad do you wand?" "I understand the god is about to utter oracular statements, as the high point of the Wednesday services," Retief said. "Yez -- I waz jusd goink over my sgribt. Now if you'll eggsguze me I have to -- " "It just happens that it's the script we want to talk about. There are a couple of special announcements Td like to see inserted." "Whad? Damper with holy sgribture?" "Nothing like that; just a good word for a group of associates of ours and possibly a short commer"Plasphemy! Herezy! Refishionizm! Nefer will I pe a barty to zuch zagrilechel" Retief clicked off the toTs safety catch. " -- Put, on the other hant, bossiply somethink gould pe arranched," the Deacon said hastily. "How much did you hafe in mind offerink?" "I wouldn't think of attempting to bribe a man of the cloth," Retief said smoothly. "You're going to do this for the common welfare." "Jusd whad is it you hafe in mind?" "The first item is the campaign you've been waging against die Spisms." IF # A h, yezi And a wontervul jap our lats hafe peen toink, we will zee them ztambed oud endirely, and virtue driumvant!" genocide, Tm afraid. Now, my thought was that we could agree on a reasonable division of spheres of influence." "A teal with the Bowers of Tarknezz? Are you oud of your mind?" "Now, now," Magnan put in, "a more cooperative attitude would do Your Voracity greater credit." "You zugchesd that the jurch should gombromize with zin?" "Not exactly compromise," Magnan said placatingly. "Just work out a sort of peaceful coexistence plan." "Nefer will I, as deacon, gome oud in vafor of dogetherness with Zatan'z Impz!" "There, there, Your Voracity; if you'd just sit down across the table from them, you'd find these imps weren't bad fellows at all." There was a soft sound from the door. Jackspurt, a jaunty, two-foot sphere of red bristles, appeared, waving his eyestalks exultantly. A looming blue Spism behind him. "Nice going. Relief!" he called. "I see you caught one. Pitch him down after the other one, and let's dear out of here This little diversion will give us time to get clear before the smoke starts." "Jackspurt, do you suppose your fellows could do a fast job of shifting a few hoses around? You'H have to block off the sewers and feed the smoke off in some other direction." "Say, that's an idea!" Jackspurt agreed. "And I think I know just the direction." He gave instructions to the big blue Spism, who hurried away. The Deacon had retreated to a corner, eyes goggling, his hands describing mystic passes in the air. More Spisms were crowding into the room now, tall blue ones, tiny darting green ones, sluggish purple varieties -- all cocking their eyestalks at the prelate. "Help!" he croaked weakly. "The minions of the netherworlt are ubon me!" M agnan drew out a chair from the table. "Just have a seat. Your Voracity," he said soothingly. "Let's just see if we can't work out a modus vivendi suitable to all parties." "Come to termz with the enemy? Id will mean the ent of the jurch!" "On the contrary. Your Voracity; if you ever succeeded in eliminating the opposition, you'd be out of a job. The problem is merely to arrange matters in a civilized fashion so that everyone's interests are protected." "You may hafe somethink there," Um-Moomy-Hooby seated himself gingerly. "But the nevariouz agtirities of these goplins musd pe kebt unter sdrigd gondrol -- Ebiscobal gondrol, thad is." "Look, my boys got to make a living," Jackspurt started. "Zellink a vew love-botions, zerdainly," the Deacon said. "And modezd draffic in aphrodisiags, I#S dope, and razedrack tips. But beddling filthy menus to teen-agers, no! "The zame goez vor sdealing withoud a licenze, and the zale of algoholic peferaches, with the eggzebtion of small amounts of broberly aged sduff for medicinal use py the glerchy, of gourse." "Okay, I think we can go along with that," Jackspurt said. "But you priests will have to lay off the propaganda from now on. I want to church art." "Oh, I think you could work out something lovely in little winged Spisms with haloes," Magnan suggested. "I think you owe it to them. Your Voracity, after all this discrimination in the past." "Tevils with winks?" Um-MoomyHooby groaned. "It wiM blay hop with our zympolizmz -- put I zubboze it can pe done." "And you'll have to have guarantees that everything from two feet under the surface on down belongs to us," Jackspurt added. "We leave the surface to you, and throw in the atmosphere, just so you dedicate a few easements so we can come up and sightsee now and then." "Thad zeems egwidaple," the Deacon agreed. "Supchegd to vinal abbrofal py His Arrokanze, of gourze." "By the way," Jackspurt asked casually, "who's next in line for the Bishop's job if anything happens to Ai-Poppy-Googy?" "Az it habbenz, I am," UmMoomy-Hooby said. 'Why?" "Just asking," Jackspurt said. A loud thumping started up from the wide floor below. "What's that?" Magnan yelled. "The pumps," the Deacon said. "A bity so many Spisms will tie, but it is manivezdly the will of UkRuppa-Tooty." "I guess old Uk-Ruppa-Tooty had a last-minute change of heart," Jackspurt said callously. "We shifted the pipes around to feed the fumes back up into the city plumbing system. I guess there's black smoke pouring up out of every john in town by now." "Touple-grozzer!" the Deacon leaped up, waving his arms. "The teal'z off -- " "Ah, ah, you promised. Your Voracity," Magnan chided. "And besides, Mr. Retief still has a gun." "And now, if you'll just pick up the microphone. Your Voracity," Retief said. "I think we can initiate the era of good feeling without further delay. Just keep our role quiet, and take all the credit for yourself." # A about poor Ai-PoppyGoogy falling off the ziggurat when the smoke came boiling out of Uk-Ruppa-Tooty's mouth," Ambassador Straphanger said, forking another generous helping of Hoogan chow mein onto his plate. "Still, one must confess it was a dramatic end for a churchman of his stature, shooting down the sHde and disappearing into the smoke as he did." IF "Yez, alreaty the canonization papers are peing brebared." His newly installed Arrogance, Bishop Um-Moomy-Hoopy, shot a nervous glance at the Spism seated beside him. He'll pe the batron zaint of rehapilidated tevilz, impz, and kop#S." "A pity you missed all the excitement, Magnan," Straphanger said, diewing. "And you, too, Retief. While you absented yourselves, the Hoogan philosophy underwent a Yeri table renaissance -- helped along, I humbly assume, by my modest peace-making efforts." 'Hah!" the Bishop muttered under his breath. "Frankly, what with all the smoke, I hadn't expected the oracle's pronouncement to be quite so lucid," Straphanger went on, "to say nothing of its unprecedented generosity -- " "Chenerosity?" interrupted UmMoomy-Hoopy, his heavy features reflecting rapid mental recapitualflon of his concessions. "Why, yes, ceding all mineral rights to the formerly persecuted race here on Hoog -- a charming gesture of conciliation." "Mineralts rightz? Whad minerte?" Jackspurt, splendid in the newly tailored tunic of Chief Representative for Spismodic Affairs to the Episcopal court, spoke up from his place along the table set up on the palace terrace. "Oh, he's just talking about the deposits of gold, silver, platinum, indium, and uranium, plus a few Moulders of diamonds, ruby, and so forth that are laying around below ground. The planet's lousy with the stuff. We'll use our easements to ferry it up to the surface where the freighters will pick it up, so we won't put you Hoogs out at all." r ie Bishop's alligator-hide features purpled. "You -- you knew apout theze mineralts?" he choked. "Why, didn't His former Arrogance mention it to you? That was what brought the mission here; the routine minerals survey our technical people ran from space last year showed up the deposits." "Ant we puilt our Brincible Kod oud of prass -- imborted prass at thad," the Bishop said numbly. "Too scared of a few Spisms to dig," Jackspurt said in a stage whisper. There was a flicker of lightning in the sky to the cast. Thunder rolled. A large raindrop spattered on Straphanger's plate, followed by another. "Oh-oh, we'd better head for cover," Jackspurt said. "I know these flash squalls; lightning out the kazoo -- figure of the god Uk-Ruppa-Tooty into vivid silhouette against a blueblack sky. Dishes rattled' on the table as sound rumbled across the sky on wooden wheels. The Bishop and his guests rose hastily, as a third jagged electrical discharge ripped across the sky -- stricking the gianr idol full on the shoulder. A shower of sparks flew; the Hoogan gesture of salute, pi vote ! lowly at the elbow. The yard-wide liand, seen edge-on with the fingers extended, swung slowly in a great ere, came to rest with the extended thumb resting firmly against the tnub nose. Sparks flew as the digit was welded firmly in place. The Bishop stared, then tilted his head back and looked up at the sky, long and scarchingly. "Chusd pedween uz men of the worlt," he said hoarsely, "do you zubboze thad phenomenon haz any bezial zigniviganze?" "I think if I were you, Your Arrogance, Fd watch my p," Jackurt said in an awed tone. "And, uh, by the way, on behalf of the Spisms, Fd Hkc to make a contribution to the Episcopal treasury." "Hmmm. Have you ever thought aboud tagink inzdruction?" the Bishop inquired. "Fm sure it could be arranged, and as for the little contribution you sboge of, dwenty bercend of the take would zuvvice." They strolled off along the corridor, deep in conversation. Ambassador Straphanger hurried away to prepare his dispatches to Sector HQ, Magnan at his heels. Retief stepped back out onto the terrace and lit up a dope-stitk. Far away, Uk-Ruppa-Tooty loomed, solemnly thumbing his nose at the Episcopal Palace. Cheerfully, Retief returned ttie Philip Jose Farmer's Greatest Storv author of The Lovers and many other great sf stories! Philip K. Dick R. S. Richardson Theodore L. Thomas -- and many others All In the January Worlds of Tomorrow -- on sale now! IF The Place Where Readers And Editor Meet... Dear Editor: I have several comments to make on the December issue of If. #. The cover work was phenomenal. Please let's have some more like it. #. The Hounds of Hell was excellent again. Please, more Laumer! #. Now comes the complaint: When is Doc Smith coming? YouVe been promising to have Skylark DuQuesne soon for months. This was my original reason for subscribing (although Heinlein, Laumer and Van Vogt are good reasons too!) and it still is what I am waiting for! Vance has just been published by Berkley Medallion -- now you are riiould have stories before they come out in book form, not after! You noticed no complaints on quality of your stories. I tried -- but I couldn't find anything to complain about! Please keep up the good work on the stories and keep Morrow for cover illustrations. -- Martin Massoglia, # West McDonel, Michigan State University, East Lansing Michigan. # Re Doc Smith: The first dralt of Skylark DuQuesne was completed last spring, and it's a winner, too. One complication arose to prevent Doc from completing the revision on schedule: a little matter of some major surgery. The operation was one of those all-day jobs that take a team of surgeons working at top speeds, and average recovery time for a young adult usually runs to a matter of months... but Doc Smith, who is just beginning to get his second wind at #, was up and out of the hospital in a week, back at work a few days later, and is now finishing up the rewrite. An amazing young fellow is this Doc Smith! We're chary of predictions more than one issue ahead -- sometimes even those go astray, as you see with Jack Vance's story! -- but as of this writing we fully expect to bring Skylark DuQuesne into the April issue. agree with every word you say... and that's why the serial beginning this month is Starchild, When we with the clear understanding that there would be no book publication for at least a year. Somewhere, somebody, somehow failed to get the message -- the book edition came out -- and at the last possible moment we had to pull the story out and replace it. (If you look closely at the cover you can see where the type was cut out and changed. In fact, the cover painting was made place. Coincidentally, it happens to illustrate a scene in Starchild as well, proving that not all accidents are chine... but we won't be running it here... because we dont use reprints. Not even accidental ones. --    Dear Editor: That last serial that appeared in your magazine -- The Hounds of Hell by Keith Laumer -- is the most disgustingly ridiculous story you have ever printed. If one could forgive it for having almost no plot one still could not forgive it for being chock full of stock situations and incidents which appear over and over again almost word for word in various other stories. I mean, where is the author's creativity? And why does he insist on cluttering up the story with trite sentences? The story read like something written in the thirties (or maybe the twenties). It was stocked wi sudi antiquities as the Superman Hero, the Secret Laboratory and the oneman-band type of character who did the surgery on the hero to make him superhuman. This is not the type of story that makes If the high quality magazine that it is. Please avoid cluttering your future issues with stories like this one -- especially if they take up as much space as this one did! -- Robert Heitman, # South #th Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania #.    Dear Editor: The Silkie was even better than Van Vogt's last. The Expendables. Please keep Van Vogt coming! Kagan is a find -- hope to see more of him. Where has Sturgeon gone? And -- I hate to say this, but the only story in your aU-Sraith issue that was worth beans was The Imperial Stars. But its quality made up for the other three. Would you accept an 'TFirstory that would have to be published as a serial ? -- Jack Baldwin, # North Alison Street, Santa Barbara, California #.  Yep. -- Editor. And that's about k for another issue. Our first for this issue is L. D. Ogle of Muskegon, Michigan. Next issue we're going to try to squeeze in an extra page or two of Hue and Cry because the letters are beginning to pile up... but come to think of it, we've got a serial installment, a long Van Vogt and a couple of other items that may get in the way... well, keep the letters coming anyway! We'll do the best we can. -- The Editor. IF I( Imagine! Here's what you get... the button -- you can't make mistakes! Nothing to focus! Nothing to set or adjust! No double exposures! You get crisp, sharp blackand-whites, amazingly life-like color shots -- even slides -- with, no effort at all! Commander Camera Retail Vriue: # I Rol! Kodacolor Film Retail Value: # I Roll Kodak Black-and-White Film Retail Value: .# Pre paid Processing Certificate Retail Value: # (Good for # jumbo Color Prints and I new fresh roll of Kodacolor Film!) # limited! Clip coupon and mail today. P.O. Box #. N.Y., N.Y. # extra charge). Total retail value: #. I pay only # plus #fl handling.  Send C.#. I am enclosing # deposit and will pay postman #, plus # handling, plus postal charges.  I want to save postal charges. I am enclosing #, plus #t for handling. Dot completely pleased'.  go o o O', a oo d o s in your neighborhood won't run off with your books if you put inside the front cover of each book... a gummed bookplate with your name printed on it! The umpt eenth corollary of Finagic's General Law of Dynamic Negatives says: "No books are ever lost by loaning except ones you particularly want to keep' owner s name impni Your Name Here #I Hudson Street, New York #, N. Y. FEBRUARY #  #c I IBaiaBl # for #; #, #; #, # with owner's name imprinted All Postpaid. Add state sales tax, if any. No. GM-# by Cullen Rapp No. GX-# by Lynd Ward The designs shown above are the only ones we offer! won't run off with your books if you put inside the front cover of each book... a gummed bookplate with your name printed on it! No. GF-# by Emsh No. GF-# by Emsh The umpteenth corollary of Finagle's General Law of Dynamic Negatives says: "No books are ever lost by loaning except ones you particularly want to keep' s, ooo o o o o O o o o #(# O O O (j Frederik Pohl, Editor Sol Cohen, Publisher Diane Sullivan, Associate Editor David Perton, Production Mgr  Mavis Fisher, Subs. Mgr  IF published monthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, Robert M. Guinn, President, Vol. #, No. #, Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York #, New York. #c per copy. Subscriptions # issues # in the United States, Canada, Mexico, South America and Central America and U.S. possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All rights including translations reserved. AH material submitted must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelope. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories are fiction, and any simariliaty between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in the U. S. A. by the Guinn Company, New York #, N. Y. IF  Editorial Science Fiction in Academe S hortly before this issue of If appears we expect to visit the campus of Wooster College in Ohio to take part in the # session of the Modern Language Association's annual symposium on science fiction. This sort of event has become rather un-newsworthy of late. The University of Chicago, perhaps, led off the trend with its seminar on science fiction a few years ago. At U.C.L.A., a depository for science-fiction magazines has been established -- not just the newsstand publications like If, Galaxy and Worlds of Tomorrow , but the mimeographed, hectographed and even carbon-copied "fanzines" published for limited circulation by science-fiction readers all over the world. Syracuse University is attempting to establish another sort of depository, collecting the papers of science-fiction writers as a permanent record of their lives and thoughts. This growth of scholarly interest in science fiction is both pleasing and sobering -- pleasing because we like science fiction, and like to have other people take an interest in it; sobering because it somehow has the aroma of erecting a monument. (An honor which is, of course, usually reserved for the dead.) N ow, we don't think for one minute that science fiction is dead, or even showing signs of failing. We think it's here to stay. We do think, though, that there has been some visible tendency foi science-fiction writers and editors to begin to take themselves a little over-seriously, as though conscious of the scholarly eyes upon them; and we have the uneasy notion that the sort of self-consciousness that feeling engenders could in the long run be serious. After all, science fiction's greatest merit lies in its tolerance of the way-out and its freedom from convention! As we see it, it's our job, especially here in , to stay loose. No formulas. No playing it safe. What we think we ought to be doing here in If is turning up all the new talent we can (as in our "firsts" -- this month's is J. L. Frye, with Zombie ), enticing back the greatest of the old masters (as with A. E. Van Vogt, herewith, and Doc Smith's Skylark DaQuesne , coming up shortly) -- and giving them all as much freedom as they need to keep us all alert... and entertained! We hope we're succeeding in this. Judging by the letters we get for Hue and Cry (squeezed out of this issue, by the way -- but back next month), most of you feel we are. But if you think not, or if you have an idea of how we can do things better -- let's hear from Why were these men great? How does anyone -- man or woman -- achieve greatness? Is it not by mastery of the powers within ourselves ? Know the mysterious world within you ! Attune yourself to the wisdom of the ages! Grasp the inner power of your mind ! Learn the secrets of a full and peaceful life ! Benjamin Franklin, statesman and inventor... Isaac Newton, discoverer of the Law of Gravitation... Francis Bacon, philosopher and scientist... like many other learned and great men and women... were Rosicrucians. The Rosicrucians existence for centuries. Today, headquarters of of mail annually to all parts of the world. IF  Novelette The aHen was mighty but it could be killed -- again and again and againl monster, Matlin began to get mad. In its death throes, the twelvefoot creature had done a violent muscular convulsion and somersaulted over into the dump section of Matlin's truck. There it lay now, with its elephantine head and quarter-length trunk twisted to one side, and a huge arm and hand flung up and visible over the rear end. What must have been tons of shiny, black body was squashed limply down into the bottom of the cavernous metal carrier... creating a problem. That was all it was to Matlin: a problem. Steve Matlin was an abysmally suspicious and angry man. His impulse now was to dump the beast in the weeds beside the road. Reluctantly, he decided against that. He had unfortunately been seen driving along this little used lake road by the two officers of a highway patrol car. If the patrolmen found the creature's body, they would assume that he had shot it. This benighted man, Matlin, envisioned himself as being the person who would have to see to the disposition of the dead monster. As he reasoned it out, if he made the mistake of dumping it in the wrong place, he'd have to hire a crane to get it into his truck again. And if he simply look it home, he'd have the job of digging a hole for it. "Better take it to the police," he decided gloomily, "and follow their advice like a good little fellow." Seething at the nuisance, but resigned, he drove to the main highway. There, instead of turning left to his farm, he headed for Minden, the nearest suburb of the city. Arrived in town, he drove straight to the police station, braked to a halt, and vigorously honked his horn. Nobody showed. The exasperated Matlin was about to lean on his horn and really blast them with sound, when he made an electrifying discovery. The police headquarters was on a side street and, whatever the reason, there wasn't a car or person in sight... Hot afternoon, empty street, rare opportunity -- Matlin tripped the lever that started the dump mechanism. A moment later, he felt the beasi s oody shift. He simply drove out irorn under it and kept on going, gunning his motor and reversing me uump mechanism. II T hat night before they went t bed, his wife, Cora, said to him, "Did you hear about the creature from space?" Matlin's mind leaped to the memory of the beast he had carted into town. He thought scathingly: "Those nuts! Creature from space indeed!" But he said aloud, gruffly, "You watching that junk on TV?" "It was in the news report," she said defensively. "They found it right there in the street." So it was the thing he had killed. He felt a sudden glee. He'd got away with it. He thought smugly: "Saved myself twenty-five bucks. Time I had a little luck." He went silently to bed. Cora lay for a while, listening to his peaceful breathing, thinking of the monster from space -- and thinking of the universe that she knew existed somewhere beyond the narrow world of Steve Matlin. She had once been a teacher. But that was four children and two decades ago. It was a little hard sometimes to realize how far away the real world was these days. Out there, a creature never before seen on earth had been found lying dead in the street in front of the Minden police station. The TV cameras brought front views, side f views and top views into everyher sudden confusion. And they body's living room. No one had any also evidently believed that a husidea how the thing had gotten where band would have told his wife. The it was discovered, and, according to principal spokesman, a fine looking, the news commentators, top governsoft-voiced man of her own age, ment and military officials were bewho had introduced himself as John ginning to gather around the colosGraham -- and who was the only sal corpse like buzzing flies. person present not in a police or Two days went by. A monstermilitary uniform -- said in a kindhunting expedition arrived at the ly tone, "Tell your husband there's Matlin farm -- among other places quite a reward already, something -- but Cora shook her head to their like a hundred thousand dollars, for questions and denied in a take-itanyone who can help us effectively." for-granted .tone that Steve was the The expedition departed in a long one who had transported the beast, line of noisy motorcycles and cars. "After all," she said scathingly, "he would have told me. Surely, you -- Tt was about mid-morning the next uh!" X day when Steve Matlin saw the She stopped, thought: "That man! second monster. That incredible man! He could He had been following the trail of have ." the first one from the lake road. And The visitors seemed unaware of suddenly here was another. IF there, breathless. What he had expected, in coming here by himself, Matlin had never considered clearly. When Cora had told him of the reward money, he had instantly derided her trusting nature. "Those S.O.B.'s will never split that reward with anyone who hasn't got his claim staked and ready to fight," he had said. He had come to stake his claim. His shock on seeing this second creature was like a multitude of flames burning inside him. He was aware of the heat rising along his spine and searing his brain. Fear! Trembling, he raised his rifle. As he did so, the creature -- which had been bending down -- came up with something that glinted whistled past Matlin's head and struck a tree behind him with an impact like a clap of thunder. The ground trembled. An instant later, the sound of an explosion came to Matlin's ears. The explosion was loud enough to have come from a small cannon. Even as he made the mental comparison from his experience as a Marine in World War II, the distant rifle -- it looked like a rifle, though a huge one -- spat flame again. This time the bullet struck the rock ten yards in front of Matlin and sprayed him with a shower of rock splinters. His body stung all over, and when he was able to look again -- after the second explosion had echoed from the distance -- he saw that his hands were covered with dozens of droplets of his blood. The sight was both terrifying and galvanizing. He slid back, rolled over, half-clawed to his feet and, bending low, ran to the gully's end, stopping only when he realized that it was becoming too shallow to be a shelter. What could he do? S hadowy memories came of wartime risks he had taken. At the time he had felt enforced, compelled by the realities of a war he never accepted -- a war that had wasted several years of his life. But he remembered moving, crouching, going forward. He had always thought what a mad thing it was for a sensible person to force himself into enemy territory. Yet under the hated pressure of wartime discipline, he had resignedly gone into the most deadly situations. Was it possible he would have to do that now -- because of his own foolishness in coming here? As he crouched there, appalled, two more cannonlike shells splattered the rock where he had been seconds before. A cannon against a rifle! Matlin wanted out, wanted away. The angry scheme he had had to get for himself whatever might be at the end of this search had no meaning in the face of the firepower that was seeking his destruction with each booming shot. He lay cringing at the shallow end of the gully, not even daring to raise his head. His own rifle seemed like a mere toy now... T he phone rang. When Cora answered, it took her several moments to recognize the hoarse voice at the other end as her husband's. "I'm calling from a roadside pay phone. Can you find out where that monster-hunting expedition is now?" he said. "Mamie just called. They were over at her farm. Why?" "It's chasing me," he said. "Tell 'em I'm coming toward the highway from the boathouse. It's driving a dump truck as big as a house." "What's chasing you?" Cora yelled into the mouthpiece. "Where?" "A second one of the monsters. On that back road to the lake," Matlin moaned. And hung up. Ill T he battle on the highway began about two o'clock in the afternoon. The creature climbed out of the cab of a dump truck that stood twenty feet high. Crouching behind the vehicle, it fired with a rifle the size of a cannon at anything that moved. The two dozen men with their frail cars and tiny rifles crouched in the underbrush. Lying beside Graham, Matlin heard the man say urgently to an army major: "Call again for an air strike!" It was about ten minutes after that that the first helicopter appeared on the horizon. It turned out to be an enterprising TV station's vehicle, with cameras aboard. The fluttering monstrosity of flying machine circled the dump truck, takIF ing pictures of the great being beside it. At first it did not seem to occur to the creature to look at the sky for the source of the sound. But suddenly it got the idea. Up came that long rifle. The first bullet smashed through the cockpit. A splinter from somewhere hit the pilot and knocked him unconscious. The helicopter flew off erratically. As it retreated, another gigantic bullet smashed its tail. The stricken whirlibird fluttered down among the trees on the other side of a low hill. Worse, when the military helicopters arrived, they no longer had the advantage of surprise. The cannon-rifle fired at them as they approached. They veered off -- but not before three went down, one in flames. With one exception, the others began to shoot back from a distance. The exception flew off to the left, disappearing low behind a hill. It reappeared presently to the rear of the monster and, while the other machines kept up a barrage from in front, this lone helicopter came in on the target from behind. The barrage of bullets that its pilot loosed downward almost tore off the great head of a creature which did not even see where the death came from. M atlin walked forward with the others, angrily fingering the "claim" he had written out. It infuriated him that they were not offering to honor his rights. Even though he had expected it, the reality was hard to take. Arrived at the truck, he stood impatiently by while the men examined the creature, the huge vehicle and the rifle. Matlin was drawn abruptly out of his irritated self-absorption with the realization that he, had been twice addressed. Graham indicated the ten-foot rifle. "What do you make of that?" The question approach, the appeal to him on an equal basis, momentarily neutralized the timeless anger in Matlin. "Now!" he thought. He handed Graham his claim with the request, "I'd like you to sign this." Then he bent down beside the huge weapon and examined it. He commented presently, "Looks like a pump action repeater, much like the one Tve got, only many times as big. Could have been made by the same company." It irritated him as he spoke to realize that Graham still held the claim sheet in his hand; had not even glanced at it. Graham said in an odd tone, "What company?" "Mine is a Messer," said Matlin. Graham sighed and shook his head in bewilderment. "Take a look at the nameplate on that big gun," he said. Matlin bent down. The word, him in indented, black metal lettering. "And what's the name of your dump truck?" Graham asked. Silently, Matlin loped around to the front of the over-sized truck, and peered up at the letters. They were exactly the same as on his own M When Matlin returned with the identification, Graham nodded, and then handed him back his claim sheet, and said evenly, "If I were to write that claim, Mr. Matlin, it would read: 'As the man who has done the most to prevent the creature from space being traced down, I recognize myself -- ' meaning you, Mr. Matlin -- 'as the one person least qualified to receive the reward.' " It was such an unexpected reaction, so instantly threatening to his rights, so totally negative, that Matlin blanched. But he was stopped by the words only for a moment. Then the anger poured. "Why, you damned swindler!" he began. "Wait!" Graham spoke piercingly, raised his hand in a warning gesture. His steely gray eyes were cynical as he continued: "Now, if you were to lead us onto the real backtrack, help us locate these creatures, I'll reconsider that judgment. Will you?" N ight came and caught them on the hunt. As the monster-hunting expedition camped beside the lake, the darkness was shattered by a thunderous roaring sound. Matlin tumbled from .the back seat of his car, ran to the lake shore, and peered across the dark waters toward the island in the lake's center. He was aware of other men coming up behind and beside him. It was from the island that the noise came. "Sounds like a whole battery of jet engines," somebody yelled above the roar, "and it seems to be coming this way." Abruptly, the truth of that was borne out. The jet sound was suddenly above them. Framed in a patch of dark blue sky, a monstrous sized helicopter was momentarily visible. It disappeared into a cloud bank. The great roaring receded, became a remote throb. In the darkness, Graham came up beside Matlin, said, "Didn't you tell me you had a lakeside cabin near here?" "Yeh." Matlin said wary. "Got a boat there?" Matlin jumped to a horrid conclusion. "You're not thinking of going over to the island?" he gulped. "Now!" Graham said earnestly, "We'll pay you for the rent of the boat, and guarantee you against damages -- in writing. And if that's the base these creatures operate from, I'll sign your claim." Matlin hesitated. The boat and the lakefront property were his one dream. No one, not even Cora, had ever realized how much they meant to him. On the very day that he had killed the first monster, he had taken a load of sand from his farm and dumped it lovingly on the water's edge. Standing there, Matlin visualized what the reward money would do for his dream: the rough shoreline fully sanded in, a hunting and fishing lodge, and a larger boat, the kind he had often fantasied but never managed to acquire. "I'll do it," he said. IF On the island, using his flashlight sparingly, Matlin led Graham and two other men to where the ground suddenly felt... harder. When they dug down, they found metal bare inches under the grass. Graham talked softly by twoway radio to the camp they had left and then held his radio for Matlin and himself to hear the answer: a parachute army would be called by way of the more powerful radio at the camp. By dawn, several hundred seasoned men with tanks, demolition units, and cannon would be down with them. But, as the radio shut off, they were alone once more in the dark. The reinforcements of the morning were still hours away. It was Matlin -- again -- who found the overhang that led into a huge, brightly lighted ship. H e was so intent, and interested, that he was inside the first chamber with the others before he clearly realized how far he had come. He stopped. He half turned to run. But he didn't move. The scene held him. They were in a circular room about # feet in diameter. A number of solidly built metallic extrusions came up from the floor or down from ceiling. Except for them the room was empty. Matlin went with the others to where a ramp led down to the next level. Here there were more of the huge, built-in machines -- if that was what they were -- but this level, also, was deserted. On the third level, they found two sleeping "children". Each lay on its back in a long, black, metal, box-like structure. The larger was about half the size of a full-grown alien, the smaller a mere bit of a thing two feet long. Both were stocky of body and were, unmistakably, younger versions of the two creatures that had already been killed. As the three men -- Graham and the two officers -- glanced at each other questioningly, Matlin drew out his claim sheet, and held it toward Graham. The government agent gave him a startled look; then, evidently realizing Matlin meant it, he nodded resignedly, took the pen and signed. The moment he had the claim sheet back in his hands, Matlin headed for the ramp. He was sweating now with fear. Yet he realized he had had no alternative. He had to have that signature. But now -- ... Get away from all this stuff that was none of his business! When he reached the lakeshore, he started the motor of the motorboat, and headed back toward his boathouse. He locked up the boat, walked stealthily through the darkness to his car, and drove off. As he came out of the line of trees a mile from his farm, he saw the entire yard was on fire. He heard the thunder of gigantic engines -- His house, his barn, his machine shed -- all were burning! In the vivid, fitful light from the flames he saw the huge helicopter lift up from the far side and soar up into the night sky. So that was where it had gone! It passed by above him somewhat to his right, a colossal sound, the source of which was now completely invisible in the darkness of an overcast sky. Matlin found Cora and the son that was not away at school crouching in the field. She mumbled something about the monster having come over and looked down at them. She said wonderingly, "How did it know this was your farm? That's what I don't understand." IV T he fire was dwindling. People were beginning to drive into the yard. Car doors slammed. In the fading brightness, Matlin in a bemused state carried his son and walked beside Cora to his station wagon. He was having a different kind of thought. Why hadn't the creature killed his wife and child? Cora and the boy had been as completely at its mercy as the farm. A neighbor named Dan Gray touched his arm and said, "How about you and Cora and the boy staying at my place tonight, Steve?" By the time they got over on the Gray farm, a man was on TV describing how Steve Matlin had left three men at the mercy of the returning alien. He named Matlin. Matlin recognized the man who was talking as a member of the monster-hunting expedition. He glanced around, saw that Gray, Gray's wife -- a tall, thin wornan -- and Cora were staring at him. Cora said in horror: "Steve, you didn't!" Matlin was amazed. "I'm going to sue that fellow for libel!" he yelled. "Then it isn't true," Cora wailed. "What an awful thing for them to say such a lie!" Matlin was outraged at her misunderstanding. "It's not a lie, just a bunch of baloney. Why should I stay on that island? If they want to be crazy, that's their business." He saw from their faces that his perfectly obvious truth was not obvious to them. He became grim. "Okay, I can see I'm no longer welcome. Come along, Cora." Mrs. Gray said, tightlipped, "Cora and the boy can stay." at peace with their foolishness. "I'll pick you up in the morning," he said to his wife. Cora did not reply. Gray accompanied Matlin to his car. When he came back into the living room, he was shaking his head. He said to Cora, "One thing about that husband of yours. He let you know where he stands." Cora said stiffly, "He's let me know once too often. Imagine leaving those men!" There were tears in her eyes. "He says they lured him over to the island." "Nobody lures Steve. His own scheming got him over there." "He says he suddenly realized the generals had done it again -- got a private into the front line. And since this was not his war -- " IF "If it isn't his war, whose is it? He fired the first shot." "Well, anyway, the generals are on the firing line, and no one could care less than Steve. I can tell you that." "That's the astonishing thing," said Cora, wonderingly. "He thinks World War II was a conspiracy to waste his time. He lives entirely in his own private world. Nothing can shake him, as you just saw." M atlin drove back to his farm and slept there in the back of his car. When he returned to the Gray farm in the morning, Dan Gray came out to meet him. He was grinning. He said, "Well, Steve, it's finally going to be your war." Matlin stared at the knowing smile on the somewhat heavy face of his neighbor, but the words seemed meaningless. So he made no reply but simply got out of his car and walked into the house. The two women were watching the TV. Matlin did not even glance at the picture. "Ready, Cora?" he said. Both women turned and looked at him strangely. Finally, Mrs. Gray said breathlessly, "You're taking it very calmly." "Taking what calmly?" Mrs. Gray looked helplessly at Cora. "I can't tell him," she almost whispered. Matlin glanced questioningly at his wife. She said, "You might as well hear it. The creature came back and found Mr. Graham and his two companions on the island. And it talked to them through some kind of mechanical translation device. It said it was going to leave earth but thal first it was going to accomplish one thing. It said -- it said -- " Matlin said impatiently, "For Pete's sake, Cora, let's go. You can tell me on the way." Cora said, "It said -- it was going to kill you first." For once Matlin was speechless. At last he stammered: "Me!" After a moment, he added, incredulous, "That's ridiculous. I haven't anything to do with this business." "It says you're the only one on earth who made it your business." f'qphe shock was growing on MatA lin. He could not speak, could not deny the charge in words. Inside his head, he protested silently: "But that first beast was coming toward me. How was I supposed to know?" Cora was continuing in a grieffilled voice: "It says that on all the planets it's visited, no one has ever before killed without warning, without asking any questions." Matlin stared at her with hopeless eyes. He felt battered, defeated, ultimately threatened. For a moment, again, he could scarcely believe. He thought: "I only want to be left alone!" The thought stopped. Because he knew suddenly that all these years he had been maintaining an untruth: that what went on elsewhere was none of his affair. He had pretended so hard, gone into such instant rages, that other people simply glanced at each other significantly and fell silent, and thereafter never brought up the subject again. He had always thought with satisfaction, "By damn, they'd better not say anything but -- " contemptuously -- "let them think what they want." And now, he was the only human being that a visitor from another planet felt motivated to kill... He grew aware once more of Dan Gray's smile. The man spread his hands helplessly. "I can't help it, Steve. Believe it or not, I like you. I even think I understand you. But -- forgive me, Cora -- this seems to me to he a case of poetic justice. I can't think of anyone else who's had something like this coming to him for so long." Matlin turned and walked out of the room. He was aware of Cora following him hastily. "Just a minute, Steve," she said, "I have something for you." Matlin turned. They were alone in the hallway. He grew aware that she was tugging at her wedding ring. "Here," she said, "I should have given you this nineteen years ago, but I let the coming of our first child stop me." # Sh e opened his palm, placed the ring in it. and closed his fingers over it. "You're on your own, Steve. After twenty years of being the most selfish, elf-centered man in the world. yOu can face this as you should, by yourself." Matlin scowled down at the ring, then: "Bah! When you look at me, vo" f be human race as it really is. I've never gone in for the shams, that's all." He slipped the ring into his pocket. "I'm going to keep this and give it back to you when you get over this foolish feeling. My feeling for you was never a sham." He turned and walked out of the room and out of the house. A car was pulling up in front of the Gray house. John Graham was inside it. He climbed out and walked over to where Matlin was about to get into his station wagon, said, "I came over to see you." "Make it quick!" said Matlin. "I have three messages for you." "Shoot!" "Obviously," said Graham, "the U.S. government will not allow one of its citizens to be casually exterminated." Accordingly -- he continued formally -- all of the armed forces would be interposed between Steve Matlin and the alien. Matlin stared at him with uncompromising hostility. "He can duplicate anything we've got, so those are just big words." Graham said in the same formal way that the ability of the creature to duplicate, first, the rifle, then the truck, and then the helicopter, had been taken note of by the military. Matlin's curt laugh dismissed as asinine the notion that the generals would know what to do with such information. "C'mon, c'mon," he said roughly, "what's the second message?" "It's personal," said Graham. He stepped forward. His fist came up, connected perfectly with Matlin's jaw. Matlin was knocked back against his car. He sank to the IF ground, sat there rubbing his jaw and looking up at Graham. He said in an even tone: "Just about everybody seems to agree I had that coming to me, so I'll take it. What's the last message?" Graham, who had evidently expected a battle, stepped back. His savage mood softened. He shook his head wonderingly. "Steve," he said, "you amaze me. Maybe I even respect you." Matlin said nothing. He just sat there, elbows on knees. After a moment, Graham continued : "The way the generals figure it, there's got to be another reason why the creature wants to kill you. Maybe you know something." His gray eyes watched Matlin closely. "Have you been holding anything back?" Matlin shook his head but he was interested. He climbed slowly to his feet, frowning, thoughtful as he dusted himself off. Graham persisted. "It is proposed that its ability to duplicate is based upon a kind of perception that human beings don't have." "Hey!" said Matlin, eyes wide. "You mean like the homing pigeon, or birds flying south, or salmon coming back to their little pool where they were bom?" "The reasoning is," said Graham, "that you got some feedback on whatever it is, and so the creature wants to kill you before you can pass on to anybody else what you know." Matlin was shaking his head. "They're off their rocker. I don't know a thing." G raham watched him a moment longer. Then, clearly satisfied, he said, "Anyway, the military feel that they can't take a chance with a creature that has made a death threat against an American citizen. So they're going to drop an atomio bomb on it and end the matter once and for all." For some reason,  Matlin felt an instant alarm. "Just a minute," ho said doubtfully. "Suppose it duplicates that? Then it'll have everything we've got, and we still won't have seen a thing ifs got." Graham was tolerant. "Oh, come now, Steve. The bomb will be e small one but the right size to pulverize that spaceship. I personally feel strong regrets about this but I have no doubt of the outcome. Once the bomb drops, it'll have nothing to duplicate with -- and it won't be around to do any duplicating." Matlin said, "Better tell them to hold that bomb till they've thought about it some more." Graham was looking at his watch. "I'm afraid it's a little late for that, Steve. Because they figured you might have some telepathic connection with this creature, I've been holding back the fact that the bomb is being dropped -- right -- now!" As he spoke, there was a sound of distant thunder. Involuntarily, the two men ducked. Then they straightened and looked over the near farms, past the trees in the distance, beyond the low hills. A small but familiar and sinister mushroom was rising from the other side of the horizon. "Well," said Graham, "that does j It Too bad. But it shouldn't have made that threat against you." "What about the other ship?" Matlin asked. "What other ship?" said Graham. They had both spoken involuntarily; Now, they stared at each other. ' feraham broke the silence. "Oh, my God!" he said. V T here were stubborn people at G.H.Q. For two decisive days, they rejected the idea that there might be another ship. Then, late in the afternoon of the third day, radar reported a small object high above fiefld H from which the atomic plane had taken off to destroy the spaceship on the island. Control tower challenged the approaching airborne machine. When there was no response, somebody became anxious and sounded a bomb alarm. Then he dived down a chute lhat took him head first into a shelter far below. His quick action made him one of about # fast-reflex people who urvived. Seconds after he made his dive p safety, an atomic bomb demolished field H. About the same time, a TV helicopter was hovering above the island In Matlin's lake, taking pictures of the bomb crater there. Suddenly a spaceship came silently down from fet great height and landed. The helicopter did not tarry. It look rear view pictures as it was fleeing the scene. w Graham went to see Cora, looking for Matlin. But she could only shake her head. "Steve said he was going on the road till this whole thing blew over. He said he figured he'd better not be sitting still when that creature came looking for him." They put Matlin's photo on TV On the fourth day after that, Graham interviewed four sullen young men who had tried to seize Matlin, their intention being to deliver him to the monster. As their spokesman put it, "By handing over the one guy who was really involved in this business, the rest of us could have gone back to our daily affairs." They filed out, one on crutches, two with arms in slings, all bandaged in some way, groaning a little. The following day, Graham interrogated two people who claimed to have witnessed a duel on an open stretch of highway between Matlin in a station wagon and the monster flying an enormous jet plane. Matlin had had a bazooka and the beast had finally beat a retreat. General Maxwell Day, who was with Graham, wondered aloud if Matlin might not be the man who had raided a Marine armory and taken a # rocket launcher and a quarter of a ton of ammunition for it. Graham phoned Cora. "I'm checking a report," he said. "Would Steve have thought of utilizing Marine equipment?" Cora answered carefully: "That weapon belonged to the people of the U.S., didn't it?" "Yes." IF "Well, then, I think Steve would regard himself as part owner, as a citizen, and without any guilt since he would consider either that he paid for it with taxes or earned it in World War II." Graham put his hand over the mouthpiece, said, "I gather he would have thought of such a thing." The Marine officer held his hand out for the phone. "Let me talk to her," he said. A moment later: "Mrs. Matlin?" "Yes?" "May I ask you some very personal questions about your husband?" "You may." "Now, Mrs. Matlin, Mr. Graham here has the highest respect for your opinions, so think carefully about this one: Is your husband intelligent?" Cora hesitated; then: "I know exactly what you mean. On some levels, no; on others, extremely intelligent." "Is he brave?" "To hear him talk, no. But my feeling is, totally. I think you'd have to engage his interest, though." "What does he think of generals?" "They're idiots." "Is he an honest man?" "We-#-#-#-#, that depends. For example, he had that rifle along that first day in ' the hope that he'd be able to kill a deer illegally." "I mean is he responsible for his debts?" "If I may quote him -- he wouldn't give the so and so's the satisfaction of owing them money." General Day smiled. "Now, Mrs. Matlin, would you take your hutband back if I made a sergeant out of him?" "Why not a captain?" "I'm sorry, Mrs. Matlin, if you'll think a little bit, you'll realize thaf he'd never sink that low." "Oh, I don't have to think. You're right. Well -- yes, I might take him back. B-but he's not in the Marines anymore." "He will be, Mrs. Matlin. Goodby." He hung up. An hour later it was announced on TV, radio and the newspapers that Matlin had been re-inducted into the Marines, and that he was ordered to report to the nearest Marine station. A bout midnight that night a jet, with Graham and several officers aboard, flew down to the Marine base where Matlin was resignedly waiting for them. They secured a Marine private's uniform. As the grim, unshaved man reluctantly donned it, they interrogated him. They were interested in any thought whatsoever that may have flitted through Matlin's mind for any reason. Matlin objected: "That's crazy. I don't know anything special -- except the thing is out to get me." "We think you do." "But that's a lot of -- " "Private Matlin! That's an order!" Glumly -- but thoroughly -- Matlin complied with the orders. He told them everything that had passed through his mind about the creature in the past few days. And there had IF been things, many things, things that had seemed crazy and distorted to him, until he thought he was beginning to lose his mind. Visions of a home on a planet of another star. Visions of long, long years of travel. Visions of the buried ship at the lake, where thousands of atomic bombs were in process of being duplicated. His listeners turned pale, but Graham urged, "Go on." Matlin continued: There was only one creature, but it had brought with it a number of spare bodies and could grow even more. Then he stopped. "Damn it," he growled, "I don't like to say this stuff! Why do you want to hear it, anyway? It's just crazy dreams." Graham glanced at the Marine commander, then at Matlin. He said, "Matlin, we don't think it's dreams at all. We think that you are in resonance -- somehow! -- with the creature's mind. And we need to know what it has in its mind -- so, for heaven's sake, go on!" T he story, by the time Matlin got through piecing it together, made a pattern: The alien had arrived in the solar system in two ships, with its bodies in various growth stages and evenly distributed between the two vessels. When one ship -- and its cargo of bodies -- was later destroyed, it made a duplicate, and now again had two. As body after body was destroyed, the next in line was triggered into rapid growth and awakened to full adulthood in about two days. Each new body had the complete "memory" of what had happened to the ones that preceded it; everything that happened to its preceding self. On arrival, the first body had awakened in a state of total receptiveness. It had wanted to be able to duplicate the thoughts and feelings of the inhabitants of' this newiy found planet. -- Be like them, think like them, know their language -- It was in this helpless, blank condition, when it stumbled on Steve Matlin. And that was the story. The creature had been imprinted with the personality of Matlin. Graham said, "Steve, do you realize that this being got all these destructive ideas from vou?" Matlin blinked. "Huh!" Graham, remembering some things that Cora had told him, said, "Do you have any friends, Steve? Anybody you like? Anybody anywhere ?" Matlin could think of no one. Except, of course, Cora and the kids. But his feelings about them were not unmixed. She had insisted on sending the three older children to school in town. But he did feel a genuine affection for her, and them, at some level. Graham said tensely, "That's why she's alive. That's why the creature didn't kill her the day it burned your farm." "B-but -- " Matlin protested, "why destroy the farm?" "You hate the damn place, don't you?" Matlin was silent. He'd said it a thousand times. "What do you think we ought to do with about half the people in this country, Steve?" "I think we ought to wipe the human race off the map and start over again," said Matlin automatically. "What do you think we ought to do with the Russians?" "If I had my way," said Matlin, "we'd go over there and plaster the whole of Asia with atomic bombs." After a little, Graham said softly, "Like to change any of those ideas, Steve?" Matlin, who had finished dressing, scowled into a mirror. "Look," he said finally, "you've got me where I can't hit back. And I'm ready to be loused up by what the idiot generals have got in their crazy noodles. So tell me what you want me to do." A I lX) Hl 'juoraoui ospaid jBip  ceased its feverish duplication of man's atomic bombs... and became itself. Its compulsive mental tie with Matlin was severed. Shuddering, That made a report, on an instantaneous relay-wave transmitter whose receiver was lightyears away: "What w'e always feared would happen on one of these blank mind approaches to a new planet finally happened to me. While I was enormously receptive to any thought, my first body was destroyed by a twolegged inhabitant of this system, a being with the most incredible ideas -- which are apparently due to some early mistreatment. This inability to slough off early shock conditioning seems to be a unique phenomenon of the people of this planet. "Realizing how trapped I was while he remained alive, I made several attempts to kill him. I was unsuccessful in this because he turned out to be unexpectedly resourceful. But he has now put on a suit called a uniform, and this has immediately turned him into a peaceful person. "Thus I was able to free myself. Naturally, I can still sense where he is, but he can no longer receive my thoughts nor I his. However, I must report that I am pinned down here by an air fleet. My image as a goodwill visitor has been completely nullified by what has happened. Obviously, I won't use any weapons against them; so perhaps this expedition is doomed." A team of astronauts was sent up. The team successfully boarded That's second spaceship, reporting that it was occupied by four bodies in various growth stages. Even as they blew up the ship in its silent orbit, on earth Matlin was driven to the edge of the lake. There, a government launch was provided him. While Graham and General Day watched through binoculars, Matlin drove the # craft right onto the beach of the island, careless of any damage to it. "I think he smashed the launch," said Graham. "Good." "Good?" "My whole theory about him would collapse if he treated governIF ment property with the same care that he gave his own possessions. It reassures me that he's exactly the man I thought." Matlin came to where the second alien ship lay at the bottom of the blast pit. Water had filtered down into the clay. Having his orders, Matlin dutifully slid down into the goo. He held his rifle high, cursed, and started for the entrance. VI G raham, General Day, and an artillery major watched Matlin's progress on a portable TV. The picture was coming from a ship some # feet above the island. The scene below was crystal clear. Through the marvelous telescopic lens, Matlin actually looked like a tiny human being walking. "But why send anyone?" Graham protested. "Why not just blast it? As you've already pointed out, we've got enough power up there -- " he indicated the sky above -- "to exterminate him." General Day explained that he now favored Graham's earlier view. The alien might be able to defend itself. "But it's too late for caution," Graham interjected. "We've burned our bridges." It would be unwise, the Marine officer explained, to provoke the creature further until a confrontation had taken place. "A confrontation between a super-being -- and Matlin!" "Who else should we send? Some poor devil? No, Matlin is oriented to this. Seeing the creature face oa is not a new experience to him aa it would be to some other lower ranks." "Why not send you? Me?" Day answered in a steady voice that such decisions as were required here should not be made by people who reasoned on the basis of official attitudes. "How do you think I got to be a general? When in doubt, I listened to what the men thought. They have a basic canniness that transcends intellect." With an effort, Graham recovered. "You heard Matlin's basic truth," he said. "His opinion of the human race -- " General Day gave him a surprised look. "You mean to tell me that isn't your opinion also?" "No." "You don't think that human beings are absolutely impossible?" "No, I think they're pretty terrific," said Graham. "Boy, are you far gone," said the general in a tolerant voice. "I can see that we Marines have an understanding of human behavior that beats all you brain-washed people." He broke off. "Matlin was badly handled in World War II." "What?" Graham groped. "You ask, what has that got to do with it? Plenty. You see, Mr. Graham, you have to understand that a true Marine is a king. Now, Matlin is the true Marine type. But he was treated like an ordinary private. He never got over it; so he's been seething for # years, waiting for recognition. I'm giving it to him. A king Marine, Mr. Graham, can direct a war, take command of a city, or negotiate with a foreign power like a government. Marines who get to be generals are considered sub-level versions of this species. All Marines understand this perfectly. It will not occur to Matlin to consult me, or you, or the U.S. Government. He'll size up the situation, make a decision, and I shall back him up." He turned to the major, commanded, "All right, start firing!" "Firing!" Graham yelled. Day explained patiently as to a child that it was necessary in this extreme emergency to reindoctrinate this particular Marine, and grind in the simple truth -- to him -- that generals always loused things up. M A quick reminder, that's all, Mr. Graham." M atlin was still skidding around in the mud when the first shell landed to his left. It sprayed him with fine droplets of wet dirt. The second shell landed to his right. The debris from it missed him entirely, but he was now in such state of rage that he didn't notice. By the time the shelling ceased, his anger was gone and he was in that peculiar state of mind which can only be described with one word: Marine. The man who presently entered the alien ship knew that life was tough, that other people could not be trusted, that no one cared about him. It was a truth he had always fought with bitterness and rage. But there was no longer any doubt in his mind. People were what they were. They would shoot you in the back if they couldn't get you from in front. Understanding this, you could be friendly with them, shake their hands, enjoy their company -- and be completely free of any need to judge them or condemn them. But you were on your own, day and night, year in and out. As he saw the creature, Matlin used his gun for the purpose that he had brought it. Deliberately, he tossed it down. It struck the metal floor with a clatter. The echoes of the sound faded -- and there was silence. Alien and human stood there staring. Matlin waited. S uddenly, the hoped-for voice came from a speaker in the ceiling: "I am talking to you through a computer, which is translating my thoughts into your language. It will do the same for yours. Why have they sent you to me -- the one man I threatened to kill?" That added: "I no longer plan to kill you. So you may talk freely." Matlin said bluntly, "We're trying to decide what to do with you. Do you have any suggestions?" "I wish to leave the planet forever. Can you arrange it?" Matlin was practical. Could the creature leave whether human beings like it or not? "No." The simple negative took Matlin slightly aback. "You have no special weapons from -- from where you come from?" IF "None," admitted the alien. That admission also startled Matlin. "You mean to tell me we can do what we want with you? You can't stop us?" "Yes, except -- " Matlin wanted to know except what? The great eyes blinked at him, its black, fold-like eyelids rolling up and down in a skin and muscle complex unlike that of any creature Matlin had ever seen before. "Except that it will do you no good to kill me." "You'd better make damn clear what you mean," Matlin said. Watching him, That gave its explanation. And Matlin realized that what That said was true. For once in the an enemy would solve nothing. M atlin's boat was almost waterlogged by the time he successfully beached it near where Graham and the others were waiting. He came up to them and saluted. General Day returned the salute smartly, and said: "Your report." "I told him he could go," said Matlin. "He'll be leaving when I signal." "What?" That was Graham, his voice sounding shrill and amazed in his own ears. "But why?" "Never mind why," said General Day. "That's the way it's going to be." He spoke into his mike: "Men, this alien ship is going to lift from here in a few minutes. Let it go through. A duly authorized person has negotiated this solution." The language was not clear to Matlin. "Is it okay?" he asked questioningly. For an instant, it seemed to Graham, Day hesitated. Graham said urgently into that instant: "At least, you're going to find out what made him agree?" Day seemed to have come to a decision; his momentary hesitation ended. "Okay!" he said to Matlin. "Okay, sergeant." Matlin raised his rifle, and fired it into the air. To Graham, Day said, "I've never lost a bet on a king Marine, and I don't expect to now." The interchange ended. For on the island, the ship was lifting. Silent, jetless, rocketless power drove it up on a slant. It passed over their heads, gathering speed. It grew small and, as they watched, became a dot and vanished. Aboard it, the creature to which Matlin had talked performed the preliminaries necessary to an interstellar voyage, and then retired to one of the sleep boxes. Soon it was in a state of suspended animation... Thereupon happened what the monster had told Matlin -- the underlying reality, which made it useless, unnecessary, even dangerous, to destroy it and its vessel. On a planet many light-years away, the real That stirred, awaken      IF  Short Story Nothing can withstand the power of the press -- even when it g s robot-directedi I t was a sensational front page. The four-color headline had punch, the atrocity photo had a pretty girl in it, the comic strip was surefire and the crossword puzzle was just difficult enough. "Same old slop," said Dave Romero, tilting back in his swivel chair and spreading the proof out on his desk. "I've been editor of the Territory Eight Press-Guardian for five months and I've never written a word." His assistant, a tall heavyset young man named Merle Bockman, said, "So complain to Commander Vetterlein. He's supposed to be staying at his suite in the Territory Eight Patriotic Arms Hotel this week." Commander G. B. Vetterlein owned forty-seven newspapers on Barnum and eighty-three on other planets. Everything that appeared in the Press-Guardian came from his news and feature syndicates. As editor, Dave's main function was making up the paper and getting everything to fit into eight pages. "What's a six-letter word for scoundrel?" he asked Bockman. "Batson," replied his assistant. "Who's this guy in our first comic strip remind you of? This fellow here who seems to be deflowering the heroine between panels?" Not looking, Bockman said, "Batson." Dave nodded, his dark face lining as he frowned. He read the headline aloud again. " 'Batson Lies, Avers Plexus Spokesman'. Subhead: 'No Famine In Territory Nine'." "Did you read Little Crippled Sally today?" "Yeah, where she tells her uncle that starvation is usually only psychosomatic. Sure." Bockman moved toward the press room "I have a hunch that Plexus Enterprises is pulling a fast one with those surplus food warehouses." "All I know is what I print in the paper," said Dave. "Go ahead. Tell those automatic bastards to roll. It's after ten and we've got to be on the stands by noon." Cupping his hands Bockman yelled, "Let'er roll!" at the fully automated press room. The presses roared and he slid the door shut to cut off some of the whir. "I wonder what Leopoldo Batson's really like." "Let's suggest that to Commander Vetterlein for tomorrow's Inquiring Reporter question," said Dave, still frowning at the front page. L eopoldo Batson had seized control of the key cities in the neighboring Territory Nine some six months before. He still didn't have complete authority, and one of his big problems was the Plexus Food Enterprises Company. Plexus had been paid a fee by four of the previous governments to stockpile a certain amount of food from the many crops and meats that they grew, processed and packaged. Now that a famine had actually hit Territory Nine the surplus storehouses proved to be just about empty. There were rumors that Plexus had shifted products to other warehouses, but they claimed spoilage and acts of god. None of this appeared in the Press-Guardian , since there was a strong possibility that Commander Vetterlein was a major shareholder in Plexus Enterprises. Whatever his motives, the commander seemed determined to use his papers to do in Leopoldo Batson. Even his papers here in Territory Eight. "Bv the way," said Bockman. "Yeah?" "Something was delivered whileyou were out at coffee. I put it back in the cloak room." "What is it?" "A big crate, comes from the Vett Syndicate storerooms in the capital at Keystone." "Are we supposed to open it?" "Nothing came with the crate," said Bockman, nodding his head toward the back room of the newspaper offices. "It's addressed to you and that's all I know." Dave stood up. "We'll investigate." A blue light flashed over Dave's desk. "Message," said Bockman. "Blue," said Dave, dropping back into his chair. "Blue's the damned commander's color." He swung his forefinger against the response toggle and said, "David W. Romero." "Stand easy," said a rich falsetto voice. On the view screen next to Dave's outdrop tube appeared the long sharp face of a pale, grayhaired man. "Commander Vetterlein here. How's it going, David?" "Fine, sir," he said smartly. "I'd like to see you here at my suite in one half of an hour," said the commander and faded out. Dave stood up again. "Oh, boy." "It could be a raise," said Bockman. "No, no," said Dave. "Raises come out of the payhole there. But an in-person talk with the commander. That's something else again." "Shall I open the crate while you're gone?" "Yes," said Dave, heading for the door. "I s may want to use it." C ommander Vetterlein laughed like a squeezed rubber doll. A tear appeared at the corner of one of his pale eyes and he clapped his hands on his knees. "Isn't that a scheme to admire?" he asked Dave. The parlor of the suite was some fifty feet long with two bright, all-glass walls. The solid walls were decorated with neat rows of flags. The flags of the various territories, condominiums, nations and kingdoms where the commander had papers. Dave was looking at the flags and not at his chief. "Yes, sir." "You're admiring my flag collection?" "Yes, sir." "The flag of one's country," said the commander's piping voice, "brings tears to one's eyes and elation to one's heart. You can well understand that, being a citizen of so many places and planets, I can sometimes sit here for hours crying and being elated." "Yes, I can understand that." "Now then," said Vetterlein, "to return to the details of your special mission. You will leave tonight, in a plain unmarked land car, and proceed to Territory Nine. Reservations have been made for you at the Esperanza Inn -- under your own name, since we want no charges of scheming." "And the Esperanza Inn is near this chateau?" "Exactly," said the comtnander, smiling. "The cold stone chateau wherein an unsullied fairhaired young woman is being held prisoner and used for an uncountable number of vile purposes by Leopoldo Batson, the so-called liberator of Territory Nine." Dave checked his notebook. "Her name is Patricia Haysen and she's the daughter of the former Prime Minister." "Right. Of old Gaylord J. Haysen himself, the territory's leading warehouse rental agent and a keen politician." The commander picked a folder from the jade-top table in front of his knees. "Here we have pictures of the girl. Bathing suit shot, formal dress, disheveled. We'll want to run them all. More important are the pictures you'll get of the guards doing her injustices and shots of her being freed and so on." Dave took the photos. Patricia Haysen was a blonde girl in her early twenties, pretty and slender, looking somewhat reluctant. "She's expecting the rescue?" "Her father has arranged it. Rented the chateau under a name IF that's pretty close to Batson," explained the commander. "Haysen has also seen to it that two defected Batson men will be on guard there. They will be easily overpowered." "Good," said Dave, since he would be doing the overpowering. "It's going to be a big story," said Commander Vetterlein. "It's certain to look real if handled properly. Then it will damage Batson. After all, nobody wants a seducer for a president." "No, sir," agreed Dave. "I have picked you, David, because I want the story to break in this territory, outside of Batson's stamping grounds. That will also make the rescue seem more daring." The commander chuckled. "After you succeed with this, David, other plums will come your way." "I'm glad to do it," said Dave. "I'm sure my assistant can run the paper while I'm gone." Slipping the pictures of the Haysen girl away Vetterlein said, "I've made certain that the Press-Guardian will function smoothly. On direct order from me, our Keystone storerooms have sent you an android." "Beg pardon?" "Over the years, we've experimented with the use of robot editors. They don't have the fire and drive of real flesh-and-blood fellows like yourself but they do function efficiently," the commander said, "I have quite an interest in this type of android. I have even bought up large quantities of those used on far remote planets. Some of my android editors in the collection are well over two centuries old." He laughed. "Don't frown, David. The one you've got is brand new and ready to go. The latest model. Let's hope it doesn't prove too good, eh now?" So that's what was in the crate! "Right, sir," said Dave, trying not to frown. M erle Bockman, his arms folded, was standing in the middle of the editorial room. His head was tilted slightly to the left and his straight brown hair was hanging at an odd angle. As Dave came in he said, "Hello, chief." "Open the crate yet?" "Halfway. Then I stopped." "It's supposed to be my temporary replacement," said Dave. "They come packed in excelsior now?" "It's an android." "Oh," said Bockman. "That's okay. I thought somebody was trying to give us a scoop on a trunk murder." He shook his head. "Why do you need a replacement?" Dave told him about his assignment to go into the next territory and pretend to rescue Patricia Haysen. "Let's get this brand new efficient editor unpacked. I've got to leave in a couple of hours." "I thought," said Bockman, following Dave to the cloakroom, "that I'd get to run the PressGuardian when you had to leave." "So did I. But you don't seem to be one of the commander's hobbies." The crate lid was still down but most of the nails had been pulled. "I stopped when I saw the feet." said Bookman. Dave grabbed the lid and swung it up. "What the hell?" On top of the excelsior rested a box of cigars. Dave lifted it out and started scooping the excelsior away. Something started whirring and buzzing, and then the android suddenly sat up. He looked like a heavy middle-aged man. He had a speckled complexion and a thick belligerent lower lip. Pulled down on his wide forehead was a green eyeshade. He scowled at Dave. "You, Junior! Who are you?" "Dave Romero. You're going to be running the paper here during the day or so that I'm gone." "Give me my damn cigars," said the android, grabbed the box of cigars from Dave and jumped out of the crate. Glaring at Bockman the android said. "You! Who are you?" "Merle Bockman." "Merle? That's great. They give me a wall-eyed greenhorn named Merle and an undersized Romero and think I'm going to put out a paper worth reading!" Dave glanced down into the crate and saw a bill of lading. He reached for it. "Now that you know us, who the hell are you?" "My name-," said the android, "is Howey-#." He thumbed open the cigar box. "And I'm too damn good a city editor to be stuck with an operation like this." T he slip in Dave's hand read: "Enclosed find one (#) automatic editor. His name is Maximo-# and to operate him simply push button marked edit " To Howey-#, Dave said, "It says here you're supposed to be Maximo-#." Howey-# laughed and lit his cigar with a wood match. "A lot they know! I'll tell you, Dave. I've been on the shelf for a time. They prefer those new pansy andies but I knew I'd get a crack at a paper again. I'm going to put this sheet on its feet. What's its name?" "The Press-Guardian " said Dave. "I think, though, that you've been sent to us by mistake." Howey exhaled smoke. "You needed a city editor. I'm it. Show me my desk." "Merle," said Dave, "you stay here and fill Howey in. I want to make a call." Dave ran to his desk and dialed the Patriotic Arms. He couldn't get through to the commander and had to talk to the image of his general secretary, a fat man named Brubecker. "Aren't you enroute yet, David?" asked Brubecker. "It's about the android editor," said Dave. "They sent us the wrong one and..." "David. Mistakes just aren't made where the commander's hobbies are concerned." Brubecker puckered his lips. "Don't be a spoilsport about turning over the reins. It is, after all, only for a couple of days at most." Then he was gone. "Junior," called Howey-#, "you're sitting in my slot. Now. First off I want to read a few IF copies of this rag and then I want to go out and nose around this town and see what's going on." He came up and patted Dave on the back. "Where do you keep your bottle?" "You drink, too?" "I was built to do everything a good editor is supposed to do," said Howey-#. "Third drawer on the left," said Dave. He gave up his swivel chair and looked back at Bockman. "I'll see you in a day or so with a big story." Bockman didn't speak. D ave traveled back roads and little used roadways in the gray land car the Vett Syndicate had provided him. It was nearly twilight now and he'd been driving since morning. He had left Territory Eight last night, driven several hours and then pulled off the road and slept a few hours. He crossed over into Territory Nine a little after sunrise. The roads Commander Vetterlein had mapped out for him to take to the chateau were so out of the way that Dave hadn't had a chance to pick up a copy of today's PressGuardian. He hoped Howey-#'s first issue was up to standard. Well, that was the commander's problem -- or his general secretary's. Since Dave had come to Barnum to work on the Press-Guardian he had done what he was told. He didn't agree with Commander Vetterlein's approach or with most of his ideas. But Dave was anxious to make good on this job. He was twenty-seven now and he'd already screwed up a couple of good jobs. This time he'd keep quiet and follow orders. He had been here five months and had no trouble. He'd even received a raise. The country around him now was dry and nearly flat. No grass, few trees. Hard orange and yellow land and low, brown, rocky hills. There was a wind and it snapped thin clouds of dust up into the thin blue sky. Dust spattered at the car windows, along with swarms of suicidal green gnats. He found the sideroad that led to the chateau and turned onto it. Gradually a forest grew up around him. When the road finally deadended against a high stone wall there seemed to be tall, tangled trees everywhere behind him. Dave went over his map again and then gathered up his cameras and his stun pistol and got out of the car. It was a step up in the organization to be chosen for a nonsitting assignment like this. Even so, Dave felt uneasy. You couldn't tell how realistic things might get in a mock rescue. The narrow break in the wall was where it was supposed to be. Dave shoved his gear through and then edged through himself. There was the chateau. A large yellowstone building, some thirty yards from where he stood. Dave uncased a camera and took a few steps toward the place. Something showed at a second floor window. Something white was being waved. 'Don't surrender till I get a few pictures," Dave called. A girl's voice called something back and then the white was gone. A moment later a ground floor side door opened and a slim blonde girl ran from the chateau waving a large white sheet of paper. "... can forget it," she was saying. Dave hurried toward her. "Since I'm alone you'll have to take some of the pictures when I tangle with the guards. Where are they anyway?" "They got upset and took off," the girl said. "You are the man from the Press-Guardian , aren't you?" "Yes." "Well," the girl said, "then you should have seen this. I was just packing when I glanced out and saw you sneaking up." What she was holding was a copy of the PressGuardian. "Today's?" asked Dave, taking it. "I haven't seen it yet." "A runner brought it just awhile ago. I don't imagine Commander Vetterlein can be too happy." Swallowing, Dave made himself look at the front page. The headline read: Plexus Plans Frameup! Then the subheads: News Magnate Linked With Crooked Food Company In Move To Smear Batson! Press-Guardian Refuses To Play Ball And Tells All! The accompanying stories were more of the same. "He even threw out all the comics," said Dave, leafing through the paper. "But left my name on the masthead." "He?" "Howey-#," mumbled Dave. Howey really was a good newsman. In his few hours as acting editor he'd gone out and dug up the whole story about the setup in Territory Eight. It probably didn't take that much digging. Dave knew most of what Howey had used in his expose. He just hadn't been able to use it in print. "You see, they delivered the wrong android to take my place." "Can you explain while I pack?" asked the girl. "I don't feel like staying on at the chateau now. I told my father this whole foolishness just couldn't be made to work. He and the commander cooked it up -- and so it had to be tried." "You are Patricia Haysen, then?" "Why else would I be involved in this mishmash? Come on!" They went into the chateau and Dave explained to her just exactly how Howey-# had ruined his career for him. B rown fog began to fill in the spaces between the clumps of trees. Patricia Haysen made herself more compact on the car seat and said, "I'm sorry none of the communications at the chateau were connected. My father didn't think it was worth the expense since we'd only be using the place for a few days. Do you really want to call your paper?" Dave slowed the car as the weather thickened. "Eventually. If only to tell them what to do with the stuff in my desk." "Maybe Commander Vetterlein IF will forgive," began the girl. "No. He's not likely to, is he?" "Nope." "You're sure you don't want to head back to your own territory tonight? You don't have to transport me home." "I want to postpone the trip until tomorrow," said Dave. "By now somebody must have stopped Howey-#." "Of course." said Patricia. "You can count on the commander." "I was trying to hold onto this job with the Press-Guardian " "Don't apologize for not telling the truth in the paper. You'd have been stopped anyway." "I hate to think of an android having more nerve than me." "They build some of them that way," said the girl. She bobbed up suddenly. "That's no fog there!" Dave braked. About # feet ahead of them was a black truck, swung across the road. Five uniformed men were standing in front of it, casually aiming blaster rifles down the road. "Would those guys be some of Leopoldo Batson's troops?" "Now that you mention it," said Patricia, "that short man with the curly gray hair is Leopoldo Batson himself." "The range of those rifles is two to three hundred feet. I guess we'd better surrender." He killed the motor. "Want to take some pictures of them first?" Dave frowned at her and stepped out of the car. "Good evening." "Name, please?" asked one of the approaching men. "I'm Dave Romero from Territory Eight." Batson clapped his hands together and laughed. "My friend!" he came running for Dave. "A man of great courage." W hile Batson embraced him Dave said, "You were expecting me?" "Yes," said Batson. "We learned that you were registered at the Esperanza Inn and after we read today's Press-Guardian we knew you had come here to our territory for but one purpose. Am I right?" "Well, yes," said Dave, watching Patricia climb to the road. "How were you able to wrest control away from Commander Vetterlein? Will you continue?" "I hope so." "Enough talk," said Batson. "We came to the inn with an invitation for you. You had not arrived and we set out to watch the roads for some sign of you." His head jerked. "Who is that girl?" "I'm Patricia Haysen. You know me, don't you, Mr. Batson?" "I know your corrupt father." "Miss Haysen," said Dave, "Miss Haysen provided me with a great deal of information. She's on our side, Batson." "Coming from the heroic editor of the Press-Guardian that's recommendation enough," said Batson, embracing them both. "What sort of invitation did you have in mind?" asked Dave. "I know you'll want to cover it," said Batson. "We have at last obtained accurate information concerning the Plexus Food Enterprises manipulations of the surplus food supplies. We have found the actual locations of the hidden warehouses where the food is really kept before it is sold secretly to wholesalers in other territories." "The stuff didn't spoil then?" "No," said Batson. "Plexus juggled books and records to make it look that way. A good scheme for selling the same goods twice, once to the government and once to private parties." He clasped Dave's arm. "So I invite you to accompany us on tonight's raid." "Tonight?" said Dave. "Right now?" "We strike at midnight," said Batson. "You should get enough material for a whole edition. Plus pictures." Dave nodded finally. "Okay." He looked toward Patricia. "I'll come along, too, if I may," she said. "You're on our side now," said Batson. "You're welcome." Batson embraced them both and then they started off on the raid. T he office of the Press-Guardian was quiet. It was early morning and Dave stood in the doorway with the still, blue morning behind him. "BOckman?" he said. He waited and then entered and crossed to his desk. Sitting on top of it, under a halfempty box of cigars, was a copy of yesterday's paper. Dave had spent all yesterday afternoon and evening driving back and he had again not seen the Press-Guardian at all. He lifted aside Howey-#'s cigars and looked down at the front page. As he had expected all the expose was retracted and a sabotage plot charged against Batson and his followers. There was no mention of Howey#. Dave walked back to the cloak room and peered in. The crate was there with the lid on but not nailed shtit. Dave lifted it and then let it drop. Howey-# had been dismantled and tossed into the excelsior and the lid jammed down to make the pieces fit. Dave went again to his desk. Bockman was just coming in to the office. "Hello, Merle." Bockman said, "All is forgiven -- in case you were worried." "Oh?" "The commander called me personally. He said now and then a mistake gets made, and this time someone in his organization slipped up and sent us a crusading editor from his private collection and not a new efficient model. A few firings were made and the incident is officially over." "That's fine." "It was a good issue I thought," said Bockman. "Although I had to pretend that Howey-# went berserk and locked me in the cloak room when I protested and that I didn't get out until it was too late to stop the paper." "Who dismantled him?" IF "The commander sent over some guys." Bockman lowered his head. "Have any trouble over in Nine?" "No," said Dave. "I'm a hero over there because they think I put out that issue. I met Leopoldo Batson and went on a midnight raid with him." "A raid?" "We found the warehouses where Plexus had stored the food supplies they'd swindled the government out of. Then yesterday morning I went along while some of the food was distributed. There really are a lot of hungry people over there." "I figured," said Bockman. "What about Haysen's daughter? That's the only problem that's still bothering Commander Vetterlein. Her father called him and said she never came back from the chateau. Commander will be asking you about her." "Patricia got fed up with her father. She's on the other side now. I left her over in the capital yesterday." Bockman put his hands in his pockets. "Shall we get going on the makeup? The Syndicate's been outdoing itself on anti-Batson." Dave took a cigar from the box. "Today's issue is going to be devoted to the raid on the Plexus warehouses and to the famine. With text and pictures by your editor." Bockman said, "And tomorrow's paper?" "I imagine it will be another retraction," said Dave. "If possible I should be back in the capital of Territory Nine by sometime tonight." He lit the cigar. "Before I go, though, I want to do an expose on my own. You can say I locked you in the cloakroom." "To hell with that," said Bockby Larry Niven  by Brian W. Aldiss by Lloyd Biggie, ir. plus other stories and articles by R. S. Richardson , Joseph IP  Novelette The creature from space was tiny but dangerous . In fact, it was a Man I I H e had taken refuge deep in a cavern when the fiery object sped across the horizon and dropped straight toward the center of his praying circle. He had watched it settle, its flames fusing rock and clay, watched the cherry red surface of the object turn gray as it cooled. Until then he had not thought of it as some kind of vehicle bearing a living being. Even when an opening appeared and a creature climbed to the ground his sensation was one of shocked inability to accept the picture his eyes held. He had never sen a living thing so small. The creature was hardly larger than a branch from one of the desert shrubs that surrounded the praying circle. He lay in the cavern's darkness, frozen in breathless rigidity, watching with hypnotic fascination as the creature began to move about. He tried to still the excited quivering of his muscles, lest some emanation from them might turn the visitor's attention toward him; he had no way of knowing what senses the creature possessed. He was known among his Ceremonial Family as The Small One -- not yet quite adolescent, and tiny for his age. He blinked hard and suppressed a whimper, fearful that he faced a problem much larger than he could be expected to handle alone. He could lie hidden in the cave's darkness and yet see clearly every inch of the fantastic, arid landscape around his prayer circle through a narrow slit in the wall. This gradually helped to quiet his racing blood. It was then that Small One began to sense waves of emotion flowing from the stranger. He thought. "This thing has a mind," and found some of his fears draining away. He could begin to think, without too much apprehension, of trying to establish some means of communicating with the alien being. But suddenly tension returned. The stranger had discovered his cave mouth and was moving toward it. F rantically Small One concentrated upon learning why the creature seemed bent upon entering that black hole. But the alien mind was murky. Its thoughts took only vague shapes. Small One probed for signs of intended violence, but he found only curiosity, mingled with a confusion of half-formed ideas, among which was a primitive sort of wariness and cautious distrust of dark places. The stranger crept into the cave. Small One could hear the intruder stumbling about in the gloom. From the ledge upon which he lay, Small One could watch a rather incomplete exploration back about a hundred feet into the tunnel. By the manner of the visitor's movement Small One realized that possibly the creature possessed eyes that became blinded t by darkness. He seemed to have no secondary senses to compensate. The stranger came forward toward the light again, and Small One could see that wariness had slipped from him and could sense dimly that a feeling of shelter and safety had taken its place. He thought of letting the stranger know that his probing hands had passed near a Wist, but caution kept Small One lying hidden upon his ledge. He memorized carefully, however, the crevice in which the Wist lay, for when night's cold swept away day's blazing desert heat that Wist would lose its torpor. Then it would crawl about in search of flesh it might sting into a living-death paralysis and use as an incubator to receive and nourish its eggs. Before that time older members of The Small One's Family must come and destroy the Wist. The stranger was moving again. He started to explore an area of the desert within sight of his ship, examining sparse plant life, stopping at intervals to survey at some length far-away features of landscape through an object he held up before his eyes. Small One guessed it to be some mechanical means for increasing the creature's powers of vision. On one circle back to his ship the visitor's feet kicked into a pile of crystals. They were bright bits that The Small One found on occasions shining from stream beds or lying in the rubble of erosion on mesas beyond the great pine forests. The Small One had brought them with him to his vigil, for he was still very young. Even though he had embarked upon the first of the five ceremonial stages of Thinking Alone, which were the steps from childhood to the wisdom of an adult, The Small One had felt afraid to sit in the loneliness of his prayer circle without companionship of his toys. He was ashamed now that this strange being had discovered his secret and would know how much of the baby still lurked within him. But the stranger seemed wildly excited by the discovery. He laid down a tube-like object which he had carried with great care all this time, scooped up a handful of crystals and rushed with them to relatively cooler air just inside the cave to examine them. He turned them over and over in his hands -- ruby red ones, clear glass-like ones which scintillated with sparkling brightness deep in their hearts even in the filtered light of the cavern month. Small One caught from the creature's mind sensations of tremendous satisfaction. There were vague images of richness, of yellow hair, of a pale throat around which a string of the crystals sparkled -- pictures piling up kaleidoscopically, so fast that the patterns became confused and unrecognizable. But that evident joy over some silly toys caused The Small One to feel suddenly a strong bond of kinship. The warmth of desiring understanding and friendliness crept into his mind. Impulsively he moved from his ledge. Small One was not prepared for such an explosion of terror as that which thundered from the stranger's mind. The creature whirled, froze for an instant with face a twisted mask, then sprang backward toward the cavern's darkness. T error lashed at The Small One like uncontrollable whips of energy. He sensed a fearsome image of himself -- a gigantic head with blazing green eyes and saber-like teeth -- flooding the stranger's mind. He caught impressions of a desire to flee, of a wish for that metal tube which the stranger had laid upon the sands and forgotten in the excitement of finding his crystals, of a hopeless resignation to death. The ledge upon which The Small One had hidden was directly over the cave's entrance. He sensed that the mere act of suddenly appearing between the stranger and that doorway enlarged the creature's fright. To allay this fear The Small One stepped to one side and left the tunnel opening free. Yet the stranger continued to back farther into the cavern depths, wedging himself finally in a crevice where he seemed to feel himself hidden by darkness. The Small One spent some moments wishing he could have adIF vanced through even one or two more of the stages of Thinking Alone, for he felt very young in the face of this problem. He had never known of a living thing on his world that experienced the terrible fear he saw in this creature huddled in the dark crevice. Perhaps the Wise Ones might have some understanding of it, but such insight would not belong to Small One until the fifth stage. He felt intuitively that this visitor from the skies possessed a degree of intelligence. He caught vague and completely alien impressions from that mind: the tube lying out on the sands would be used to kill Small One if opportunity presented itself to possess it; much of the fear lying like a mist over the creature's mind centered in certainty that only moments stood between it and death under the fangs of a wild beast hungering for food. The idea was so preposterous! The Small One would have laughed aloud if his thoughts had not been flooded with pity for the cowering creature. In his young way he hoped the stranger possessed intelligence of a degree high enough to allow some means of communication to be established between them. He built images of friendship, of peaceful intention, of helpfulness, of frank curiosity... but faced finally a realization that the pathways through the creature's mind were clouded. Any pictures that might find their way along them would be dim and possibly unrecognized. He tried then a visual presentation, holding his arms wide in the gesture of welcoming a brother from another Ceremonial Family. When no response followed, he stood tall, in the aloof posture of a strange one waiting politely to be noticed and invited to confer. He went closer and repeated these rhythmic signs, but got no response. He began to feel completely helpless and childish in the face of this problem. He thought for a while of calling for his Family's Tutor, but he was ashamed to confess that he might still be too young to have been sent out to his first stage of Thinking Alone. It occurred to Small One that the stranger's eyes might be of a reatively primitive type that could not receive impressions through darkness, and so he willed light to come into the cave. The creature's wild scream at first clear sight of The Small One hurled itself far down passages, deep into the cavern in repeated waves of echoes. Small One had to close his own mind a moment to bring his senses back into harmony, for that cry sliced like a spear into his wide-open ears. He backed away from the crevice so that the stranger might not feel himself imprisoned there. Then he repeated again, for eyes that could now see, the ceremonial greetings he had used in darkness -- the aloofness of one wishing to be noticed, the wideopened arms of welcoming a brother from another Family. But each movement seemed to drive the visitor into a wilder frenzy of fear emotions. The Small One probed and found IF that his movements were being misinterpreted as threats. Heheld himself still for a time, hoping to calm the stranger's terror. He searched his own mind for some means by which he might establish communication and reassure the creature. He wished with the self-pity of the very young, for that close, secure contact that only yesterday had bound his mind in complete unity with his Tutor's. He wept inside, for he knew that his first step over the threshold toward the Coming of Age had severed that tie forever. Hphe Small One labored hard at his problem, but the only possibility he could think of was to perform a ritual of ultimate friendship rarely used outside one's Ceremonial Family, the Ritual of Trust -- to lie on his back and wave his feet helplessly in the air, exposing his vulnerable belly. This he did, over and over, crawling a little closer each time until he could almost feel the creature's panting breath stir the air between them. He lay quiet then, hoping this being might eventually conquer fear and perform his own proper part of the ritual. It occurred to The Small One that an alien culture might not have instructed its members in proper responses to the ritual. So he invited the creature in pantomime, showing the routine of making a stabbing motion with empty hands to complete acknowledgement and acceptance of proffered trust. He lay there patiently, repeating the pantomime at intervals. In time The Small One sensed a lessening of the pounding force of fear waves between them and an alert wariness gradually taking their place. The stranger began making noises -- modulated sound which must be a language. Small One concentrated upon storing every syllable . in the memory area of his mind. There was a tune and a pattern: "You're an ugly monster. You could tear me out of this crack without half trying. Why don't you? What's stopping you? What's with this rolling over on your back like that? When my dog does that he's either done something he knows I'll whip him for, or he wants his tummy scratched. Is that what you're trying? Or do you figure on tricking me into coming out from behind this rock so you can snap me up without having to dig me out? I wouldn't make a good-sized bite for you. You couldn't even feel me go down that gullet of yours. If you weren't so damned big I'd swear you were trying to make friends. Well, nothing doing, Pal; you won't get me that way. I'm staying right here. It's your move, Big Boy. What do you intend to do next?" Small One lay almost breathlessly still, fearful that any further approach might destroy the tentative calm that had settled between them. Time's pulse beat out the slow, monotonous rhythm of the first sun's climb to its zenith and into the dawning of the red sun. Small One found his concentration weakening. It became increasingly difficult to hold light within the cavern. And then a suffusion of joy poureci trom Small One's neck glands, for the stranger stretched an arm out from his hiding place. Modulated sound again came from the creature's mouth: "Wish I knew what was going around in that great big head of yours, Pal. I can't stand much more in this crevice; my feet won't take it. You could get me anyhow. Might as well take a chance and come out. Get it over with. If you were as small as my dog I know what I'd do to that big tummy of yours. All right, Comrade, I'm coming out. Will that start your saliva glands working, or will it make your heart beat in anticipation of a kind word -- like Shep's? Your eyes just don't look as liquid and loving as his. Wish I knew!" Then a foot edged from the crevice -- and in a moment the creature stood outside. Small One did not dare turn his eyes to see better. He feared the thing might dart back into hiding at a movement even that imperceptible. The thing took one more step -- and another, until it stood close to The Small One. From the corners of his eyes Small One saw the creature stretch on tip-toe, saw it reach upward toward his belly. But then, instead of an empty-handed stabbing motion which he expected as completion of the offer of Ultimate Friendship, Small One felt the stranger's fingers scratching and patting. Modulated sound accompanied the action: "There now, what do you say to that, old fellow? You're a whale of a lot bigger than Shep, but I guess you must be somebody's pet. How does that feel, Old Boy? Are we friends now?" But The Small One did not indulge himself too long in surprise reactions to any change this visitor had made in the ceremony. It was clear that the stranger had not been bred in a society which lived in accordance with civilized customs of The Ceremonial Families. Failure to complete the prescribed ritual properly meant, then, not boorishness but inheritance of a culture different from that of The Families. The miracle of it struck Sma'l One with such impact that he to his full height, assumed the cacmonial pose and began to sing the song of Joyful Brotherhood. He sang for some moments before he realized the mistake he had made. II T he stranger had sprung back into the rock crevice and clung there desperately, his body seemingly shaken by the waves of sound as ululations reverberated like a roaring wind through the cavern. Contrite and worried, Small One ceased his song in the middle of a phrase and dropped quickly to his former position. Exhaustion grasped him with painfully probing fingers, tearing at muscles and mind. He felt helpless and sorry for himself. Abruptly he surrendered to the child that was still within him. He no longer could command enough concentration to keep light in the cave. As darkness drained back into the area Small One could sense the heightening of that pitiful stranger's IF fears. And he was too tired and too inexperienced -- and still too young -- to alleviate them. It was not until almost time for the setting of the red sun that the stranger ventured again from his refuge. Small One had found in those tedious hours enough rest so that his power of concentration had been renewed, and he was able to will light back into the cavern. The alien seemed to possess no understanding of why light had reappeared. The phenomenon sent the being on a series of movements about the cave. Small One was able to catch enough from the mist of that mind to know the creature's movements were motivated by a search to find some explanation for the light source. Small One tried to project ' pictures of understanding but saw that these only seemed to cause disturbance within the visitor's mind rather than clarity. He sensed that these pictures seemed like hallucinations to the creature, attributed to some mental aberration brought about by the strangeness of environment. So Small One ceased temporarily his attempts to communicate and contended himself with following the visitor about. But this was also a source of uneasiness. At frequent intervals the creature would stop and look at Small One and make modulated sound: "Are you stalking me, Monster? Are you waiting for the right moment to pounce?" And Small One would lie on his back, repeating his offer of the Ritual of Trust, accepting graciously some rather timid scratchings and pats in lieu of the ceremonial Stab with empty hands. And the stranger formed vocal sounds almost continuously, while he scratched Small One's belly, while he searched for the light source -- evidently a method of generating within himself courage and a will to carry on. The sounds followed a pattern: "You act like you're tame, but maybe you just aren't hungry yet. Is that it, Monster? Are you keeping me in sight until the next meal time? If you're somebody's lap dog I'd hate to meet the master. He'd need a whole city lot just to do an about-face." Small One stored these sounds in his memory so that later they might be given to the Wise One of his Family and perhaps deciphered. Possibly it might eak, a conference of the Wise Ones from all the Ceremonial Families before meanings could be found. Small One knew now that this alien thing produced brain pulses much like his own; he knew also that he was the first of his race ever to contact a living intelligence from another planet, a being developed out of a totally different culture. Thoughts of the honor and glory that would come to his Family set his heart to pounding wild rhythms of excitement. The stranger's random searching for the light source had now turned into a repeated figure that was gradually leading them along one wall toward the cave's entrance. Syllables coming from the creature's mouth were changing character, seemingly more organized and less like incoherent responses to panic. "Look Shep -- or Rover -- or whatever they call you -- don't follow so close. I don't like that big mouth of your hanging over my shoulder. If you'll just not entertain any thoughts about making a meal out of me until I can maneuver around toward that entrance and get outside to my blaster we won't be on such unequal terms with each other." A picture was formed. It came about probably because this creature's mind focused upon a material object which he visualized imaginatively, but it produced a picture whose pulses passed into Small One's mind -- a dimly lit, flickering thing more shadow than photographic, but clear enough for Small One to understand. The creature's mind held an image of the little tube he had dropped by the heap of crystals, and desire for it played in ghost-like impressions across the picture. With no thought of possible consequences, and with child-like generosity of the very young, Small One thought the tube into the stranger's hands. I'll he damned! I'll be  V damned!" The syllables were symbolic of a dumfounded and completely incredulous state of mind; that much Small One could make out. The creature sat, because surprise seemed to have drawn strength from him. He stared at the tube. He turned it over and over. He repeated the syllables of astonishment and shook his head and stared hard at Small One. Then his shoulder straightened, and he rose with a confident manner utterly changed from the frightened watchfulness of just the moment before. The eyes looked directly at Small One, and sound came with a strong vocal quality. "Well, Comrade, the shoe's on the other foot now. Can you comprehend that? Watch." Small One saw the tube raised and pointed. A huge boulder across the cave suddenly disintegrated into a puff of pungent vapor. The voice rang triumphantly: "This puts rhe balance of power back in my h s! Do you understand that, Big Boy?" There was almost insolent ease in the way the stranger leaned against the rock wall; grim amusement in the new sounds coming from him. "Don't know how this happened, Pal, but there's evidently intelligence on this planet that's solved the problem of teleportation. Looks like they've been keeping track of me. Looks like they just don't want me to become a meal for you. So, Big Boy, watch your step! If you're capable of understanding what you saw this blaster do to that boulder, you saw what will happen to you if you make one move I don't like. Savvy, fellow?" Small One could sense glee in the stranger's tones, and so in his childlike way was happy for the creature, glad that relief from fear had come to it. The visitor pushed boldly past and headed directly for the cave's entrance and the late afternoon sunshine outside. Small One followed to the vehicle which had brought the visitor, and IF sat patiently on the sand while the creature entered and made vocal sounds to an instrument Small One judged to be some device for comn "-"'eating with others of the same kind. He caught snatches of the excited inflections:... looks like we're on the point of finding a race with minds like our own, maybe more advanced... haven't made themselves known yet... obviously friendly... rescued me from some kind of monster that's sitting outside the scouter right now... put my blaster right smack into my hand... won't believe this, but they evidently did it by teleportation... safe now to bring the ship in... got us another Earth here, looks like!" S mall One saw the visitor return to the open hatch. He watched him lean against the doorway and listened to lazily confident sounds coming from the creature. "Still here, friend? You must have a lump of curiosity that's as big as you are. Why don't you trot off to the folks that own you and bring them back here to talk to me? How about that, fellow?" There was pleasant satisfaction in the visitor's voice, and so Small One spent some moments trying to establish the bond of Sharing of Happiness with the creature. It was a failure. He realized that as yet he could not seem to span the gulf that separated their minds. But a determination was growing within himself to bridge that gap. First he concentrated upon creating within himself that Silent Moment. He wanted to examine this urge to be the first of his world to establish satisfactory communication with beings from an unknown ball, whirling in its own tight orbit far out across the galaxy. He felt justly proud that the shadowed hand of Chance had chosen him out of his Family -- and through him his Family, out of all the Families -- to become the first one to receive this gift from space. He faced the alternatives: relinquish this task to the Old Ones of the Families, or withhold knowledge of visitors from space until he, by himself, could appear before their councils and accept the plaudits from his world for the glory of his Family. He examined critically the impulses which were driving him toward handling the affair by himself, fearful that the decision might be prompted by pride rationalized as usefulness to his Family and to his race. He prayed a moment for humility and truth. Then he settled down with a reasonably clear conscience to the tedious task of setting up communication channels between the alien and himself. Like the child that he was, he now felt confident enough to move the universes. He began with simple things, projecting into the stranger's mind images of his Family, their homes, their artifacts, then alternated with more abstract pictures of friendly Knowledge-seeking. He could see, from certain physical responses, that these visions were touching the edges of the stranger's consciousness, but without meaning. Fragments of unrelated thoughts were intermingled like jackstraws. There was no order of memory storage. Small One's probing discovered at moments logically arranged sequences of thought and followed their lines gleefully -- to find each time their tails drifting off into a limbo of jumbled impressions. Like the child that he was, Small One became discouraged and fretful. But those faint shadows of coming maturity, which had caused the Family Tutor to think him ready for the first step of Thinking Alone, held him tenaciously to his purpose. And so they faced each other through the twilight and the darkening purple of dusk, the stranger sitting in the open door of his vehicle, Small One squatting upon the fused sands of his ruined prayer circle. Brooding peace grew with the dimming of the three suns' afterglow. Cooling desert air carried the sound of the distant songs of the Lhronos. The fluttering of their wings and scratching from their claws made the desert noisy with preparations for bedding down in the burrows in the giant cacti. P resently the stranger reached for a pouch of dried forage material. He poured some of the chopped bits into a carved wooden receptacle, then struck a small fire, brought these bits to a glow and alternately inhaled and exhaled smoke from them. Small One sensed a relaxing of tensions in the mind he faced and increased the force with which he projected his pictures. Rewards came slowly at first, in the form of puzzled frowns upon the alien's forehead. Conceivably they were unrecognized sensation caused by slow awakening of that dormant area of brain Small One was trying to reach. Small One could tell that his thought images were forming there now, fuzzy and distorted, but with increasing clarity and rapidity -- almost as wellformed as those in the new-born ones reflected from the Mothers of the Ceremonial Families. Exactly when these pictures drew recognition from the stranger as attempts to communicate was not clear to Small One. His first inkling of it came with a repeated sound phrase that must signify incredulous astonishment: "I'll be damned!" The creature sat frozen in the doorway of his vehicle and said it many times. The absorption of smoke into the respiratory system was forgotten, and the fire went out in the carved receptacle in his hand. Small One then began patiently to teach the stranger to form answering pictures, as he had seen nurses do with infants of his Family. He recognized quickly that this being could not yet learn to reach into the minds of others for thought images lying there, nor project those of his own mind. This communication, at least for some time, would leave the creature's mind entirely passive, like the page upon which one wrote. Ideas with even a minimum of the abstract in them could not pass from one mind to the other unless some way were found to picture fhe abstraction in terms of a concrete, physical object. There was IF reason to doubt that this being would ever grasp the imagry of the abstract. But Small One did learn a great deal: This visitor was of a race called by themselves mankind; the home planet was in a solar system possessing only one yellow sun -- which struck Small One as a dreary environment with a lack of variety which might account for the unused portions of this man's brain; he was one of a ship's crew of ten involved in exploration of planets for possible colonization. Small One eventually managed to transmit a superficial understanding of the Ceremonial Family, some of its rituals, and the dedication of one's self to the five stages of exploration of the mind as preparation for maturity. This last Small One could find no way to explain clearly -- since he had only just embarked upon his first stage and was, consequently, in the position of a child who can hear the words of his elders but cannot understand them. Yet Small One found the skepticism and ridicule in the man's mind gradually giving way to wonder. It was becoming less labor now to converse with this man. Relaxation and peaceful thinking flowed between them, free and bright as star reflections in water. Excitement of discovery had brought the visitor down from his perch in the doorway of his vehicle. Caution was tossed aside. He dropped upon the sands beside Small One and lost himself in tracing figures and outlines to enhance the fuzzy images he was able to form in his mind. Small One wanted to sing for the joy of it. He remembered the effect his voice had produced upon the visitor during that first meeting in the cave and suppressed the impulse. Ill N ight time's chill became biting, but the pair were too absorbed to be aware of it. Not until after repeated warnings from Small One's exploratory sense did he awaken to imminent danger. It was the Wist, held in a harmless stupor by day's heat, released when cold followed the vanishing suns across the land. Small One remembered he had seen it in the depths of the cavern when the man's exploring hands had passed near it, remembered his intention to call an adult of his Family to destroy it before nightfall. He sprang to his feet, feeling again the helplessness and insecurity of a child lost from his protecting home circle. He had never killed a Wist. No one of his age -- from any of the Families -- had ever dared attempt the feat. But now he knew he must try. There was no escape, for the Wist moved faster than any living thing upon his world. The man sensed desperation in Small One's sudden leap and was on his feet... and then he saw the spider-like legs of the great predator, scrambling over a hillock into the prayer circle. He reached for his blaster -- and realized he had left it lying in the doorway of his scouter. He could never make it. IF Small One was no longer aware of the man, not even of himself. He felt only the tearing pain of trying to force a concentration of energy greater than he had ever achieved. The Wist came at them across the circle, then slowed... and was suddenly miraculously crumpled upon the sand with the spasms of death contorting its legs. Many long, slow moments passed before either one moved, the man held in a rigid grip of dumfounded reaction, Small One weak to the point of faintness from the tremendous channeling and focusing through his mind of every bit of energy his child's body possessed. Finally the man stirred, first to recover the blaster from his scouter, and then to approach the dead Wist warily, blaster tube held ready. At length he turned toward Small One. "You -- did this? You killed the thing?" Small One could catch the stranger's meanings only from his incredulous tones. There were no images forming in the man's mind -- just emotional responses throughout the brain cells, flashing like the wild sparking of a multiple short circuit. Small One tried to reproduce a picture of assent and explanation there, but all the connections laboriously built between them had broken down temporarily. "What weapon did you use? I couldn't see it. What was it? Where is it?" Small One attempted again to project an answer into the man's mind, and found its agitation was still too great. Hoping to calm the man, he sat deliberately with his back to the dead predator. After  time the man joined him, careful, however, to face the Wist. Small One then formed repeated patterns, trying in many ways to explain that he had thought death into the Wist. And finally, long after the last convulsive jerking had left those great spider-like legs, the man was able to tear his attention from that black heap of death. Night's heaviness pressed upon the turbulence within him and leveled his mind gradually to quiet where pictures might again take shape, and he understood Small One dimly. "You mean you did nothing to kill that horror lying over there except just the power of thought waves?" S mall One misunderstood the skepticism he found in the stranger's mind. He felt humble and inadequate because youth had allowed him to do no more than barely blot out the carnivore's life. He tried constructing images through which the man could understand that adults of the Families would have performed the task more efficiently... since they could separate the atoms of any structure from each other, and cause them to lose all bonds which held them together and to dart off as free particles. He explained that they could also cause the atoms to travel in a group, as a flock of birds might, and be drawn together into their tightly organized form in some other place. At this point Small One found pictures in the other's mind beginning to give way to disjointed worry patterns. The man rose and edged toward his citadel of steel. He resorted to modulated sound again, forgetting that Small One could not clearly catch ideas from it. "You mean just with the power of thought your race can cause the atoms which make up my body, or any other thing, to fly apart? And that I would cease to exist?" When he finally was able to probe the meanings of these syllables Small One, with pride for which he was immediately ashamed, projected an affirmative answer. He detected increasing wariness in the alien's mind, and the next syllables were delivered slowly, with a cautious sound in their inflections. "You mean that any time someone rubs you the wrong way he's gone -- just like that! Kaput! On just a whim! It's beginning to look to me like a fellow would be much safer playing Russian roulette than having you around." Small One, after finding the man's meanings, shaped images of his Family to show that only after passing through the fifth stage of Thinking Alone did such power come to his people -- and that the fifth stage also brought control. He felt the man grasp this idea in a shadowy sort of way. Fear lessened, but a worried watchfulness remained. The man climbed to the doorway of his ship and turned to wave. "I'm just a little too shook up to talk any more tonight, Pal. Let's get some sleep and finish it in daylight... And I hope that mind power of yours can't penetrate steel." The scouter's door clanged shut. The first moment was one of disappointment for Small One. But the astounding fact remained: he had met a being from an alien world, and they had talked. A great weariness was settling upon him. It was time to rest, for excitement alone could not have overcome the tremendous energy demanded. He stretched himself upon the sand and blissfully opened his ears to the hiss and roar and bursts of noise that constantly passed through the universes from star to far off star. It was his rn:sic. Presently he slept like a tired, happy child. M orning touched two beings whose minds were refreshed. Communication between them was easier, pictures sharper in the man's mind. Much information flowed between them, but as the red sun rose to across the sky Small One found the man scanning the heavens with increasing frequency. Blank moments came into the visitor's concentration, and with them a tendency to lapse into his modulated sounds. "We'll be seeing the big ship pretty soon, Pal. It ought to be just about ready to hit the outer atmosphere by now. Then you'll be in the middle of a crowd, my friend!"  The man made frequent trips to the instruments through which he kept contact with his kind. And then there was a moment when he jumped from his scouter shouting: "Five minutes more, Big Boy! Look, IP Pal, I almost forgot. I've got kind of used to your looks, but I don't know what those buzzards will do when they first step out of that ship and see you looming up like a blasted nightmare. Let's get you back into that cave until I can figure out a way to make them acquainted with you a little more gradually than I had to." The meanings were caught with difficulty, for in excitement over imminent arrival of his comrades the man was again not using that area of his brain through which the two had achieved communication. Small One agreeably retired into the cave and found his ledge from where he could peer through the small crack and watch. In a few moments the ship appeared, sat on its tail of fire a second, touched down and cooled. Then its company was out and crowding about Small One's man, with much exchange of their modulated sounds and exploring about the prayer circle. Finally Small One saw his man gesture toward the cave and start for it with his companions following. He knew they were coming to see him. He stepped out into the sunshine, sending the newcomers thoughts of welcome. The entire group stopped as if moved by a common control. Small One saw their hands go unconsciously to blasters at their belts, felt shock pour from their minds. He looked, bewildered, at his man who was still advancing. "Don't mind them," the man was saying. "They'll get used to you." And he turned back to his com-' rades. "Come on, you bums! He won't hurt you. He just looks like something out of a bad dream. He's tame as a kitten. Tickle his tummy and he's your friend for life. Roll over, fellow. Make believe you're a nice doggie for the people -- before they take out for tall timber." Small One could catch the man's meaning only from gestures accompanying his words, but he graciously complied, lying as still as possible while all the newcomers approached one by one to pat and scratch apprehensively, their vocal mechanisms producing syllables: "That's a nice fellow! Good boy! There, there now, pal!" And Small One's man laughed all the while, mocking their timidity. IV T he next few hours proved rather disconsolate for Small One. A bustling activity began among the visitors as soon as introductions had been completed. Small One found communion with his man reduced to an extremely few fuzzy pictures, for constant vocal communication with his own kind seemed to cause the man to use only the more primitive areas of his brain. The man was involved in physical activity, helping his companions to unload materials from their ship. All the men made wide detours to avoid passing close to Small One, except one they called Doc. He stopped his work frequently to stare intently at Small One. Several times a certain pattern of modulated sound came from Doc. "I'm going to need a specimen for dissection." Small One's man was quick to answer each time. "Take it slow, Doc. This is evidently the intelligent race on the planet. They communicate by projecting images into your mind. I don't know how far this telepathy thing goes, whether it involves an ability to read thoughts or not, but quit blabbing everything that comes into your mind until we know a little more about these creatures. It just might cause us to face a bad survival situation." Later Small One's man returned and they sat aside to attempt more exchange of knowledge. It became clear gradually that the man wished to see others from this planet, and Small One gleefully sent out the image of happy discovery toward the far-away minds of his Ceremonial Family. They came a little before the setting of the third sun. Small One, dreaming with youthful excitement about his part in this memorable event, was made aware of their arrival by sudden action on the part of the nine newcomers from the big ship, who dropped burdens and gathered into a tight group to stand uneasily with hands on blaster butts. Small One's man came toward him and said, "Get us acquainted with your friends quick and easy, old fellow. Let them know we won't hurt them unless they try something out of line. Hop to it, Boyf" Small One understood from inflections what was wanted. He went and sat before the Wise One. Their minds locked, and Small One laid in the Elder's mind a complete account of the man's arrival by a flaming vehicle, of the struggle to communicate, of mankind's susceptibility to fear, of its curious weakness which forced dependence upon material aids for most of its adjustments to life. Small One became aware of his man's voice: "Look, fellow! My outfit's getting pretty nervous with all that mob of nightmares sitting there staring -- doing nothing. Let's get these introductions on the road. Some of those tinhorn buddies of mine have itchy trigger fingers. This silence just doesn't look good. Are you talking to your friends? We'd better have some action and noise right quick, before something happens. Tell your pals to play doggie and roll over and make like they're tame so we can all get acquainted. Tell them we won't hurt them... if they act like good boys." Understanding more from inflection and pantomime than he could extract from the man's mind, Small One tried to project a reassuring picture to the representative of mankind. Then he opened his own mind to the Old One and explained the need for performing the Ritual of Trust with these strangers. He felt immediately the strong pulses of disapproval that surged from every member of his Family. From the Old One came sharp images of rebuke: "You are still a child and can, therefore, be excused for straying from the proper use of Family Ritual. But as a child you must be bound again to your Tutor. You must IF learn among other things that the Ritual of Trust is not lightly offered outside your own Family. These strangers are welcome. Perhaps we can learn from them; perhaps they can also learn from us. We shall make them welcome." Small One tried to place pictures of these thoughts in his man's mind and found the paths difficult to traverse. Interference was there, both from a partial closing of that section of brain Small One had labored so long to stimTflate, and from a confused self-pity the scolding had let loose in Small One's own mind. Then the Family were rising to their full heights and advancing... and they began to sing the song of Joyful Brotherhood. T he thing happened suddenly, like an explosion. Small One heard his man shouting. He understood enough to recognize it as a warning: "Don't do it! It's their welcome! Don't do it!" But the hiss of blasters was already cutting through the cries, and members of the Family were dying. Small One knew what would come next. He sprang upon his man and bore him to the ground, sheltering him with his own body and the shield of his own mind. He tried at the same time to project his knowledge of this alien race to the bewildered survivors of his Family. "They are afraid! The brotherhood song frightens them. Don't hurt them -- let my man explain to them." But the Old One had thought death for them. The nine from the Earth ship existed only as particles lost among loose in the universe. Only the one man, crushed nearly to suffocation under the tremendous bulk of Small One, was left, gasping to inflate lungs pressed almost to collapse. Crying with helplessness, Small One lifted himself from the prostrate body. He felt the Old One's mind touch his. The image it carried was compelling. "This man must go with the others." Small One cried out in his mind against it. "This man is not evil like his brothers!" He tried to form pictures of the moments of sentiment that he had discovered in his man's mind. He begged in the name of the Families' reluctance to destroy intelligence. He pleaded in the name of the mercy which was so strongly imbedded in traditions of the Ceremonial Family, and for himself and the affection which he had developed for this alien thing. His man had taken no part in killing! His man had called out to prevent it! Adults of the Family had now gathered, and they shut their minds to his while they consulted. Small One's Tutor was there among them and impressions of great sadness and pity reached Small One from his mind. And finally the Old One left the circle to convey its decisions. "The man may live. He will be your charge so long as you desire his company. Your Tutor will instruct you in the powers you must have to restrict his movements. And whenever darkness covers our homes he must be caged." Small One bowed in the Ritual of Gratefulness and Obedience, but shame clung heavily to his body and spread a mist before his eyes. This was the manner in which a favor was given to a child. He read in the compassionate eyes of his Tutor the story of his failure to be ready for the Five Steps into companionship with adults of the Families. He turned to the man and presented the council's decisions, but the creature was dazed, numbed by seeing his companions so suddenly become nothing. Small One cradled the man in his arms and followed with him after the Family to the valley of their homes. T here was no wild grief in the valley that night, for in this civilization of The Families members possessed the patience to soften sorrow into acceptance of inevitability. When Small One laid his man in the cage designated by the Old One and locked its door the volatile child's part of his mind already visioned the coming days of companionship. Clang of the door brought the man from his dazed stupor. He screamed at Small One, "What's this all about? Why are you doing this? I killed nobody! I tried to stop them." Small One sat beside the cage and throughout the slow pacing of twilight across the world thought quietness into the man's resisting mind. And then he projected to the man thoughts of gladness for the reprieve IF of life that the Family Council had seen fit to grant. The man seemed inconsolable. Over and over he said, "What's to become of me? I can't take that ship back to Earth alone. What am I going to do?" Small One caught hopelessness in words he could not understand. He thrust bright pictures into that dim area of his man's brain, fighting to arouse it once more. He built visions of the two of them playing together in the gay abandonment of children. He recognized now that, besides grief for dead companions, the man worried about his own future. And so Small One explained the Old One's decision minutely, projecting images of toys, of the pet Vakrun frisking and nuzzling around them, then a picture of the Vakrun and the man together, sheltered one in each arm of Small One. Then he made pictures of safety, security and the fun of playing together -- the Small One and his two pets. And then the man was pounding the bars of his cage with fists that quickly became bloody, screaming, "I am not an animal! Let me out of this! I am not an animal!" The tumult brought the Old One. He thought the man into calmness and to oblivion of sleep, and then he stood looking down at Small One, shaking his shaggy head sadly. Small One felt shame. Apprehension for his man's future swirled like a black fog through his mind. Morning found the man dead. He was hanging from a noose of his own fashioning from the bars of his cage. Adults of the Ceremonial Family came to stand beside Small One and look with him at the pitiful thing, and their minds drew together into council. The Wise One read the patterns of that dead brain and spread their meanings out for the council to see: "This creature belongs to a race which cannot accept inferiority. It must either feel superior or perish. If it cannot achieve superiority through the mind it invents instruments of power to hold others in subjection to it. This is a race like the one which devasted our galaxy in the days of the passing of the Dark Star through our suns. And now that this man has found his way into space there will be more to follow. There will come another time of blackness -- unless we can seek them out and destroy them before they infect the galaxy." Involuntarily Small One exclaimed aloud against this, for it did not fit into what he had been taught about the Ceremonial Families. Nowhere did it reflect the tolerance and peace and hatred of violence which showed through every ritual he had been taught to perform. At a nod from the Old One the Tutor led Small One away to a quiet place and tried to show him by analogy with the Wist that evil forces must be eliminated before the bright sun of kindness could shine without clouds to mar it. Eventually Small One was left alone with his grief, the contradictions of adult thinking still unresolved in him. He knew that his people would go out to the empty ship, and that an examination of maps therein and of memory force impressed upon the atoms of their steel hulls would betray Earth's location. Impulse said those ships must be destroyed before they were made to give up their secret, so that death would not rain down upon the innocent and unsuspecting world of his man. And the child in Small One leaped to the impulse. D riven by a love for mankind, transferred through the love for his man, he hurried over the mountain pass and out on the desert toward his praying circle. And the child in him cried because he was not yet old enough to be able to separate those ships into their particles and lose their identities among the whirling motes of matter. In his mind there was only the pit of the fire death to serve. Like a festering sore in the valley of volcanic cones which lay at the desert's edge was a pit filled with a yellow stuff belched from the depths of Small One's world. Powdery after it cooled, it was violently corrosive, reducing most substances to dust, reproducing itself like a virus as long as a bit was left to feed upon. Small One had nothing adequate to carry the powder except some abandoned shells of the desert crawler which had a temporary resistance to its action. The crying was still in him as he carried two shells of the powder to the big ship and its little scouting brother. He leaned as far inside both hatchways as he could force his body and threw the powder, scattering it as widely over both interiors as he could, throwing the shells after the floating stuff. Then he sat in his prayer circle to watch through the hours, while the bright metal ships turned to piles of dust. And he cried with his child's heart because these ships belonged to his man and would soon become, with their once proud passenger, an unrecognizable part of the soil of his world and a hurt-filled memory. And then he cried because insight told him that he had made it possible for brothers of his man to find their way to this world some day, perhaps with the power to destroy his Family and his world. Then the first sharp stings on his hands told him that some of the yellow powder had touched his own flesh in spite of the care used in scattering it. He sat through the long twilight, through the evening songs of the Lhronos winging to safety of their night-time burrows, with the corrosion slowly turning his own flesh to pulp, and he cried his child's heart out over the inadequacy of his mind that chance had forced into monumental decisions too soon. He cried over the foolishness of all life which must by its nature spend so many of its brief moments of consciousness in the destruction of life -- until some time in the star-burst of a glorious night the fiery disintegration creeping slowly through his body finally touched the center of his own life, and the young voice IF IF  Short Stars In the country of the blind, the one-eyed man is -- doomed! It was many centuries ago that the overcrowded spaceship made its final, clumsy, grounding on the planet of Croth. Only the oldest sagas, in story and song, deal briefly and carelessly with that original crash landing. What ensued concerned them -- T he colonists must have numbered close to three hundred. From the constant tales of feuding and ugly blood lettings in those early months and years we must assume they were banished malcontents. They built rude homes and started cultivating land not far from the landing place in two fertile, streamwatered valleys. With seeds and the few remaining head of livestock surviving the landing, they started building a humble version of Earth. A year later, perhaps less -- for words and meanings and spoken fables change with each retelling -- disaster had come upon them. The plague -- the virus -- the darkness -- struck them all within a matter of hours. Whether it was something native to Croth, or a mutated strain carried from Earth, we do not know. Their vision dimmed, clouded over, and died. None had escaped. The twin valleys were populated by sightless humans and unseeing livestock. Only the intruders suffered blindness -- the native birds and beasts seemed untouched. The entrances to the twin valleys, five in all, were narrow and easily blocked by walls of stone and earth. They had sealed themselves away from the rest of savage Croth and had learned to live in comparative peace and security. Their ears, their noses, and their fingers and toes swiftly adapted themselves. With the passage of centuries the very meaning of the words: "vision" or "sight" had become empty and the words describing color or shade, abandoned. The population had increased, remarkably until the valleys had become overcrowded. Then the outer walls were breached and palisades of stakes, later to be replaced with barriers of earth and stones, were pushed gradually outward along the downward course of the twin valleys' streams. Intervening hills and ridges broke into this ballooning outward thrust, and eventually a number of widely separated enclosures had resulted. Gates and earlier walls cut the enclosures into many sections. The contrast of the neatly cultivated patches within the dikes, against the green seas of forest and tall grasses, must have reminded one of the ancient battle of the Hollanders against the North Sea. Into this peaceful walled microcosm there eventually dropped a fatally wounded spaceship, a cargo ship burdened with electronic equipment, and replacements and repairs for mining mechs. The blowup of one of the ship's two power kettles had killed all the crew save Dorby Cole, and Cole had, somehow, managed to crash land the shattered mass of metals and plastoids. The ship plowed into the rim of a broad green plain, ripping deeper as it went, until a ten-mile gouge ended just short of the wooded foothills of a Crothan mountain chain. A section of intact hull, complete with emergency space lock, thrust up through the tangled mass of tree roots and foliage of the prairie grove beneath which most of the ship lay buried. Less than a thousand feet from the little island of forest growth a roughly constructed wall of earth, topped with dressed stone and shar pened stakes, ran back toward lv. wooded hills. Twelve feet in height, at its minimum, and often much taller, it blocked the passage of Croth's most destructive wild life. But it could not keep an active man with tools and ropes from passage... B an Telar stopped for a moment to wipe the sweat from his face with the hairy back of his forearm. He stood erect, the great stake he carried resting on the turf and leaned against his shoulder. As he rested, two other workers carrying similar sharpened posts passed him. Mert Rodn and Hekl Yenn -- his nostrils recognized them. His lips curled when the bestial stench of Mert Rodn's unwashed body came to him. It was Mert Rodn who was his most formidable rival for the smooth-fleshed girl, Esala Rowan. Rodn was an older man, twice widowed, and a thick-muscled giant. Already he had crippled two other suitors for Esala's hand, and Ban IF Tekir had escaped only by his youth and nimbleness. So now Telar waited a possible assault with the thick stake heid before him as a shield. The Warmth was above him, making his naked flesh wet and unpleasant, and attracting the tiny winged midges that swarm and sting. The breeze came from beyond the Wall, bearing with it an alien odor that was unpleasant and acrid and like burnt metal. He heard branches and leaves wrestling together, and the beat of feathered wings, and the rasp of armored insect legs and exoskeletons in the thick prairie grass of this newly reclaimed field. "Ho, weakling!" challenged Mert Rodn from further along the path. "Must you rest with every other step? A fine mate for Esala you would make!" So! The big man was not going to attack while Hekl Yenn, and others, might be within hearing range. He must be planning to catch him apart from the others. Telar shouldered his burden and started on again. "The Warmth is not yet overhead," taunted Rodn, "and you are wearied. Before the Cold comes again we will drag your weakling body back to the village." "It is not I who will be dragged Mert Rodn," said Ban Telar. "As the Warmth grows so does my strength. But the Warmth lessens your strength. You are old and stiff, Rodn, unfit to father more children." Rodn growled something angrily and Hekl Yenn answered doubtfully. He could not catch the words, but immediately afterward his ears warned of something unusual. And then his nose scented a stranger, possibly a visitor from some distant sector of the Wall. Momentarily he forgot the two workers directly in front of him. That moment's inattention allowed them to put down their heavy posts and launch themselves back at him. He flung the barrier of the heavy stake in their direction, and backed away in a quick shuffle into the unknown terrain alongside the path. But Yenn and Rodn came after him, from either side, his startled heartbeats and his breathing their guides. Yenn's slender fingers wrapped around his throat, and Rodn's wide palms and thick fingers bit into Ban Telar's shoulder and upper arm. R odn began mauling him. He was deliberate and merciless. He did not wish to kill Ban Telar for the penalty for murder was severe -- the loss of both ears and the nose and life-long slavery. He wished only to cripple Ban Telar so lithe-limbed Esala Rowan would shudder to touch him again. A forearm snapped. Telar clenched his teeth on the agony of his cracked ribs and his battered jaws and skull. If he could only twist free and run. Even into the unknown stretch of prairie away from the path... And his other arm popped as Rodn exerted his great strength. Would Rodn ever have done with him? Was he not hurt enough as it was? Yet he knew that Rodn wanted his back to be twisted. A strange voice, speaking strange angry words, was beside them. He heard no sound of blows; yet the hands of both Hekl Yenn and Mert Rodn fell away limply. There was only a slight spppt of sound, and an alien scent. The hands of the stranger were upon him, working with the broken arms. He felt the bones grate and there was the sound of quick axe strokes, and then the pressure of wooden splints and stiff bindings holding them in place. In spite of the pain he was aware of the approach of other workers in this new sector. They ranged themselves about the fallen men and about him and the stranger. He made their number between seven and twelve, the confusion and the alien scents making him uncertain. "Why did you and this stranger kill Mert Rodn and Hekl Yenn?" demanded one of the workers, Aret Pol. "They are not dead," Doln Perse's reedy voice cried. "Then what have you done with them? And who is this stranger who speaks gibberish? Is he a madman?" "He saved me from a beating by the two of them," Ban Telar said weakly. "I do not know his name or his sector along the Wall. He has not the scent of our people, nor the words of ourvillage." "Can there be villages and sectors of the Wall that we know nothing of?" the workers questioned. "Or are there Walls built beyond our Wall? Let us arrest this strange man." There was a confusion and the stranger mouthed harsh words, after which the spppt sound came and the workers fell silent. And then the stranger slung Ban Telar's body over his shoulders and headed toward the Wall. That they climbed a rude ladder of lashed poles and descended on the further side in a similar fashion, Ban Telar knew. It was in his mind that this must be a worker from another Wall that lay beyond their own. Such an intriguing theory was often bandied about by the very young and the very old. The unintelligible words and the mysterious weapon would seem to bear this out. He was carried into the coolness of a grove of trees, and the alien scorched metallic smell grew overpowering and almost sickening. Then a door clanged hollowly and they went down into an amazing blend of odors and sounds and brokenness. The stranger laid him on a firm, yet springy, surface and shortly he felt a pricking in his arm. Afterward he fell asleep. B an Telar put aside the helmet that linked with the edutapes the spaceman, Dorby Cole, had chosen for him. A month of growing friendship and cultural exchange had passed since first they met. Now Ban Telar knew that Cole had come from another world, and that only a fraction of this world of Croth was occupied by his people. The concepts of an earth, freely floating in space, and of huge warmths, or suns, no longer seemed so strange to Ban Telar. IP A week since, Cole had put the mentrol hood down over Ban Telar's skull, and as the thousands of tiny electrodes contacted his brain he had seen through the eyes of the ship's one remaining controlled robot. He had seen the green vegetation and the pale-blue sky and the silveryredness of air, and gaily plated lizards darting among the trees. Out on the plains he had seen vast seas of four-legged beasts of many strange shapes and sizes, feeding and running and feeding again. And he knew now that it was the robot, the super mech controlled by Dorby Cole's brain, that had crossed the wall and rescued him. "I needed to make contact with your people," Cole had explained, "so I have kidnapped you." Ban Telar did not resent his privileged-prisoner role. But for the stranger he would now be a painwracked bundle of broken bones and swollen flesh. It was the being away from Esala that hurt him the most. In his absence she might yield to Mert Rodn's offer of marriage. For Rodn did own three houses and a dozen fields. "I have finished with the edutapes, Dorby Cole," he said as the Earthman entered the cabin. "Good," Cole said. He came closer. "Let me fit this headband over your ears and forehead... So!" There was a firm, though soft, pressure against Telar's flesh. He heard a click and then a building hum. A weird swirling of grayness faded and he began to see a faint picture. It was like the pictures he had experienced under the mentrol hood while he controlled the super mech. Cole adjusted unseen knobs, and the pictures were suddenly sharp and clear. "There!" he cried out. "I can see! As though I rode within the robot -- or controlled it." "Since you have no eyes," said Cole, "I decided you could use some. No need for twin mentrols and a super mech. This allows you to see as well or better than myself." "This is wonderful, Dorby Cole." "A trifle selfish too, Ban Telar. From what you tell me of the ancient myths and songs I too can expect blindness before many months. If you can see -- so can I." "The sickness may have passed." Telar shrugged. "But if not I can teach you how to live among us. Even if the band fails you it is not hard to live within the Wall." Cole was a chunky youngish man, red-haired and gray-eyed, his face fair and freckled. Now his skin flushed and his eyes were hot. "For you, perhaps, it is easy. But I cannot smell, or hear. I would be in the way and helpless. These second eyes must work, Ban Telar." "They give me an odd feeling," Ban Telar said, stumbling as he tried to walk across the cabin's buckled deck. "Already there is an ache in my skull and I feel sickness in the pit of my stomach... But I can see perfectly." "It may take weeks to learn their proper use, Ban Telar. You will be like an infant learning to walk. But in the end you will feel lost without your second eyes." Telar's skull was splitting with headache. He slipped off the band, welcoming the darkness and the familiar smells and sounds. Perhaps, he thought, the gift of vision was not the wonderful thing that he had first imagined. Yet, even as he doubted, he was impatient to get outside and explore the broad continents and islands of Croth's one vast sea. O ut of the wreckage of the giant freighter Dorby Cole and Ban Telar had extracted the damaged amphibious skimmer, and repaired it. At first Ban Telar worked by controlling the super mech, but as his arms healed he used the huge robot less and less. And gradually he came to use the Eyes for longer periods until he took them off only to sleep or to work in darkness. The skimmer was fueled and ready for the globe-circling preliminary hop. But before it left Ban Telar asked to be permitted to visit Esala Rowan. And, being in the hottest season of the year on Croth, he chose the period of Warmth that Earthmen call midday. At this time most of the workers and women of the villages within the Wall were sleeping. Only with the Cold's welcome, at nightfall, would children and adults again be about. He took with him another of the dozen Eyes that the Earthman had fashioned from the electronic and mech parts of the ship's cargo. Perhaps if Esala Rowan could see as he saw she would consent to mate with him... And together they could teach the People the use of other Eyes. Within the WalPs confines i! : Eyes changed the whole character of the world he had known. He saw that the huts of brick and plastered mud were misshapen and a mad blend of colors and plasterings. The paths wandered across the plots of land, almost touching at times. He saw the naked brown bodies of men and women sleeping under the trees and inside the huts, and the sightless pygmy cattle, huge-uddered and leopard-spotted, in the fields. He saw a small boy, alone, slipping from a hut to play in the empty fields and woods. He had stolen away, many times, in years gone by, to go on similar boyish explorations into the unknown. Esala Rowan lived with her wrinkled old mother, Efa, in a hut on the village's outer circle of dwellings. Efa was a widow who never tired of extolling the wealth of Mert Rodn. And now Ban Telar could see how near to collapse was the mean little hovel of mud and thatch. Esala slept close to the mat-barred doorway -- her mother in a further corner. He whispered softly her name, and Esala's pale golden face and fair hair appeared. But for the sunken eye sockets she was as beautiful as the women in the Earthman's books and tapes. Her nostrils dilated. She put both arms around his neck. "Ban!" she whispered, "Ban Telar!" IF "I did not want you to think I was dead, Esala." "I knew you were not. They said the stranger killed and ate you after he stung the workers. There were many stories. Some said that Mert Rodn hired the stranger to carry you off." Ban Telar laughed. "Then you have not mated with Mert Rodn as your mother wished?" "Never. He thinks to win me by crippling his rivals. Let the whole village be crippled -- yet I will not mate with him. And my mother... She is dead these past nine Warmths." "Then come with me, Esala, to live with the Earthman. We will travel far and see many strange lands." "You use strange words. What is see? And we must mate only if the Old Ones bless us... We must not leave the village, either. You were wrong to do so." Ban Telar slipped the Space Eyes over Esala's head and adjusted the controls. He felt her shrinking within his arms and then a cry of fear sounded. Faint though it was he covered her lips with his palm. "This is seeing, Esala. The Earthman gave this gift to many of our people. After we have been blessed by the Old Ones and are mates I will take you to him." Esala was pawing the headband from her forehead. "I am afraid," she said, when he took his hand away. "There is evil in this thing. There is flashing like pain that hurts not and strange things. Put it away." B an Telar shrugged. He stowed the Eyes inside the knapsack he carried and took Esala's trembling hand again. "Come along," he said, "to the Old Ones' house." "But they sleep," objected Esala. "We will awaken them. We have waited too long to mate. We wifl wait no longer." As they walked together down the empty narrowness of the street Ban Telar was astonished by the differences that vision brought. The crooked walls, sagging and twisted, with their unequally textured walls and warped door frames. The crudeness of the furniture that the blind artisans of the village constructed so sturdily -- and usually, lopsidedly. Finally they arrived at the ancient, and larger, buildings where the childless and feeble-bodied old men and women were housed. This was the governing body of the village, and few among the workers disputed them... Some day they too might be left homeless and helpless. And then they would be the Old Ones. Let the Old Ones make the laws. Bless the Old Ones. We too shall grow old. "Awaken, oh Old Ones," Ban Telar cried. "Esala Rowan and Ban Telar ask your blessing on their mating." There was a rustling and husky whispering within the main room of the dwelling and the odor of ancient flesh and long-worn blankets of wool and vegetable fibers. With his Eyes Ban Telar saw more than a score of ancients, most of them huddling their wrinkled, ancient bodies in coarsely woven blankets despite the noonday heat. "You have been gone from the village many Warmths and many Colds," a quavering old voice, Polg Rian's, charged. "I was taken away by the Earthman until my arms were healed," Ban Telar said. "It is against the laws for you to leave the village without our permission," the old voice said. "For this you are to have twenty blows of a staff across your back. And for a hundred Warmths and Colds you are to wear chains." Ban Telar's right hand dropped down to the stitcher holstered at his hip. He had scoffed at Cole's insistence that he take it, but now he was glad. The nip of one or two of the paralyn-tipped needles in the weapon's magazine could paralyze the strongest man. "I have returned with a gift from the Earth our people left years ago," he cried, backing away a step or so. "With it you can see again." "Ban Telar is crazed," the old man said. "He babbles of fantasies. He knows nothing of sight. Only we Old Ones know. Seize him." B y this time the noise had aroused' other villagers, and among them, black-bearded and thick-bodied as a gorilla, moved Mert Rodn. His broad nostrils quivered and his teeth bared as he scented Ban Telar and Esala Rowan. He elbowed through the crowd. "Let me set my hands on Ban Telar," he raged, and Ban Telak saw his big hand go down to the sheathed knife at his hip. Ban Telar tried once more to be heard. "I speak only the truth," he said. "We are of the same race as the stranger. But his people can see, as we once could. With Eyes we can go beyond the Wall. We can see the stars and the sun." "Seize the madman," cried all the Old Ones. "Seize him. Strike him down. Beat off his diseased head!" Ban Telar cleared the trimmer key of his weapon and started backing away, with Esala struggling to get free from his grasp. Dorby Cole had warned him that this might happen -- that his own people would turn against him -- but he had not believed. "Let me go, Ban Telar," screamed Esala. "Do not take me to the devil from Earth. Do not torture me with the band about my head. Free me, demon!" Anger cut across the confusion within his brain. He would carry her off in spite of herself as Dorby Cole had done with him. He saw the workers closing in on him, ten or twelve of them, and more arriving. In flight alone could he best them once he had escaped that constricting ring. His thumb depressed the firing stud of the stitcher, spewing needles in short bursts. Four of the men went down and he leaped through the gap. Esala was struggling and crying out, and the villagers were setting up a howl that was deafening. The confusion was an aid, now, IF for ears and noses could not distinguish the location of either of them. He had gained the meadows and the carefully cultivated fields beyond the village before the Old Ones' cries for silence and order were obeyed. Then the hastily armed men, forty or fifty of them he estimated, came padding silently after him. And in their front, his head low as he followed their scent spoor, came the hairy giant, Mert Rodn. "Put me down, Ban Telar," begged the girl. "Alone you can escape. Burdened as you are they will overtake you quickly." "I will not leave you behind to mate with Mert Rodn," Ban Telar told her as he left the path and took to the fields. "But I would wait for you," she said. "Truly. I do love you. Throw away the Eyes. Take your punishment. When their anger has cooled we will mate." Ban Telar paused briefly to study the pattern of naked, bronze-fleshed men, brandishing their crook-bladed metal knives and their clubs and spears. They stayed on the paths, in the main, but a small party of four, Mert Rodn in the lead, were sniffing out 'his trail. The ladders were less than two hundred feet distant now, and to the north. With his stitcher ready, and armed, he plunged directly toward them. Only once did he fire. A numbed worker went sagging to the path as he crossed it and then he was ascending the inner ladder to cross the Wall. One last look he took back with him into the enclosure as he turned to descend on the other side. He swallowed thickly. They were driving him out, a condemned hunted pariah; yet this had been his home since birth. His foot kicked the ladder away. He started the descent. T he skimmer was ready at last. The two days spent in cramming a basic edutape course in language and history into Esala's stubborn little blonde skull had not been wasted entirely. But even so, they kept her hands taped together when she wore the Eyes for each increasingly longer period. She wore it now as they prepared for takeoff, and her taped hands were strapped to her seat. "We will find other valleys, Esala," Ban Telar told her, "Where our children, and the children of those who wish to see again, can dwell." "The Eyes are evil," Esala spat out bitterly. "I wish to smash them all. And the Earthman with them." Dorby Cole shrugged his shoulders and winked at Ban Telar. "You picked a tough one, Ban," he said. "Better toss her back over the wall and catch a new one."  "He will not do so!" Esala's voice trembled with rage. "Ban Telar is to be my mate. It is you who are to blame." Cole looked directly into the Eyes that Esala wore. "Is it not good to see colors and trees, and your mate, Esala?" he demanded. "Why do you think the Eyes harm you?" Esala sniffed and shut her lips primly. Cole started to turn away. And then she spoke again. "It is not good that the Old Ones should be doubted," she said. "They have told us that sight, that seeing, is something imagined by children and brainsick fools. So it is wrong to make liars of them." "You see?" Ban Telar told the Earthman. "Perhaps I must beat her. But then she would hate me. I do not know." "Give her time, Ban," advised Cole. "Her world is upside-down. Remember the first weeks you spent," Cole was strapping himself into the control seat. When he had finished he set about checking the gauges and dials on the control panels. He turned to Ban Telar. "Did we remove the covers from the rear jets?" he asked. "I think they're free, but would you check?" Ban Telar slid out of his seat and hurried outside. He checked the broad-tailed skimmer's jets and found them cleared. He started back toward the cabin's oval lock. And Mert Rodn sprang from the concealment of the little ship's overhang to pin him to the foot-worn turf. R odn was alone. Apparently none of the others had dared risk the ladder and the crossing of the Wall. But hatred and desire for Esala had driven Mert Rodn to follow. Rodn's horny hands were shutting off Ban Telar's wind. Already his ears were roaring and redness seemed to be flooding the Eyes. Convulsively he struggled, his fists drumming at the older man's thick-muscled stomach. His knuckles brushed the handle of Rodn's sheathed knife and he groped wildly for the weapon -- found it! He tugged it out, a task complicated by the pressure of their two sweaty bodies, and then he drove the crudely forged blade into Rodn's side. The throttling hands fell away and Rodn whipped into furious action. The Eyes were torn from Ban Telar's head. Smashing impacts from Rodn's fists and elbows and knees knocked him about and jarred the knife from his grasp. In the sudden darkness, once so familiar, he felt helpless and tiny as an infant. Over and over they rolled, Rodn growling savagely, now, his teeth and nails ripping at Ban Telar's hide. Telar's hand clawed for anything, a rock, a stick or a wrench. He found the knife, its unevenly whetted blade laying open in his palm. Painfully he reversed the weapon, using the ground as a base, and drove the bloody weapon again and again into his huge foe's body. And when Rodn eventually shuddered and fought no more he knew that he was dead. Dorby Cole came and rolled the ugly carcass off him, and patched his wounds, but in his mind there was a great confusion and an emptiness. He would not again put on the Eyes. "No," he told Cole, "never again will I wear the Eyes. Esala was right. It was the Eyes that made me doubt the Old Ones. Find us a IF secure valley where we can build another Wall for our sons and daughters to live behind. But mention no more to us that evil art of seeing that has lost us our native village and has made of me a murderer." "You will feel differently tomorrow," Dorby Cole's voice said. "It is the shock of near-death, and your wounds. Surely, now that you have seen the beauty of your world you will not lose it forever." Ban Telar said nothing. But in his mind there was the stubborn conviction that this Earthman, this demon masquerading as a friend, must die before he trapped others of the People into believing in seeing. If he could only clear his mind and make his leaden senses and his weakened muscles react. The scent of the Earthman was hateful. The knife of Mert Rodn was lying where his locked fingers had finally dropped it, and now he found it. He lunged at Cole. "No, Ban!" said Cole hoarsely. "You are confused. Don't make me use the stitcher." The scent of the Earthman was sharp and the sound of his vitals and the rasping of his feet on the turf. He hated the blasphemer. The builder of lies must die. He sprang. And then the needles stung his flesh and he fell. He could hear, faintly, and the scent of trampled grass was in his nostrils. "I was wrong," he heard Cole say. "You will get your valley, Ban Telar, but no more. You are too old to understand... I must teach children from behind the wall. Only their minds are unwarped and by Cordwainer Smith by James H. Schmitz by J. T. McIntosh plus stories and columns by Willy Ley , Algis Budrys and XF  Novelette The star-swarming armies of Gree had a new weapon -- and Duke had to go and find itl I T he storm below was a whopper, which didn't surprise Colonel Steve Duke since the planet had a deep atmosphere with a sealevel pressure of over forty pounds per square inch. Such a storm would blind enemy radar, if any. It might also incinerate Steve, protected only by a thin plastic pod and his equally flimsy suit. He watched the roiling clouds swell toward him, and increased his deceleration a little. Presently, air pressure dented the pod, but most of his speed was gone now and the pod didn't heat. Clouds engulfed him, the flare of lightning was all around and thunder battered at the pod. He endured grimly until he was below the lightning and in fog so thick he might have been sinking through milk. It got darker, until the flares from above were barely noticeable. The fog was more like ink; a dripping night air so dense he could nearly have turned off the grav unit and let the pod float down. He poked at the plastic to see how rigid it was. According to his briefings, when the pod got limp he'd be near the ground. It wasn't very rigid now. Something like a miniature torpedo with a flashing light in its nose came out of the fog, emitted a brighter flare, grazed the pod, and vanished. He crouched, waiting for the detonation. It didn't come. What the devil, he wondered. Some kind of a warning shot? Or a misfire? It had surely homed on him. There was nothing he could do if they fired a deadly missile; they'd be zeroed on him now. At least, he thought wryly, he was sure, now, that there were Gree forces on the planet. Up to now, that had been only a computer probability. He grabbed equipment, stuffed it into pockets and hung things around his neck. The pod struck and squashed flat, sliding a little. Tree branches poked into it, but didn't penetrate the plastic. He could hear faint sounds now, pops and rumbles, and see reddish flashes that didn't look like laser beams. He tore at releases, got one metal end out of the pod, and squirmed out. He was on something that felt like packed cotton with a lot of sticks in it. He scrabbled away from the pod on all fours, thanking Providence (though his superiors deserved the credit), that it was a genuine Gree pod and he wouldn't have to hide it. H e bumped into a low wall of the cottony stuff, and understood. He was in a tree crown, solider than it looked in the sneak photos. This was the boundary where it reared up, jousting for space with a neighbor. He pulled himself over and kept going. Now he noticed that the crowns slanted toward their centers, in a very shallow cone. He remembered that they were supposed to be fifty feet across, and that checked pretty well. He crossed another boundary just before strong red light bloomed foggily behind him. He peered back and found the fog much thinner. They were using dispersers, then; probably ultrasonic. They were standing in the light, incautiously, talking about his pod. There were six of them, two men and four B'lant. The latter were humanoids with tough gray skins, very effective fighters in difficult environments. They wore full plastic suits and carried unfamiliar weapons. The fog suddenly boiled around them and they all went down except one B'lant who caught himself, whirled, and fired across the crown. Steve could hear the subdued 'pop' that accompanied each flash of red light. The light beam, he thought, would be harmless; for aiming only. But a dim figure that it caught jerked and doubled over and was falling before the flash was gone. ' Someone doused the steady red light and in a moment Steve, with his helmet listeners turned full on, could hear sounds as if some of the downed men were crawling over the boundary. Steve's mind puzzled at it. Concussion weapons of some kind -- logical, in this air -- but not fatal, apparently, at medium range. Who had fired them? Suspicion lanced through him. Had the Birds of Effogus -- ? No, it would make no sense for them to invade, after going to all the trouble to sneak him down. Anyway, he thought, he'd better move. He waited until there was enough noise to cover him. then rolled over another boundary and the one beyond it. The fog was definitely thin now, though fifty or sixty feet above it was as solid as ever. There were occasional red beams and enough steady glows here and there so he could see a little. A red beam slashed out suddenly, only two crowns away, and impaled a figure just crossing a boundary. Steve could see the victim -- a B'lant -- gasp and lose consciousness in a way that confirmed the guess about concussion weapons. A red flare came on, and a squad of six, four humans this time, converged on the fallen humanoid. Steve waited for them to put a couple more shots into him to make sure, but instead two of them bent over, unsealed his helmet and seemed to be giving him first aid. In a minute the B'lant came to. They helped him up, and though he looked sick and was bleeding at the nose, he was nowhere near dead. Understanding suddenly, Steve swore to himself. Live maneuvers. Not a real fight at all. But it would be just as deadly to Steve if they located him -- which they would if he just squatted here. The weapons might not kill, barring an unfortunate kind of hit, but he couldn't afford to be capttired, or even knocked out or deafened. He dug at the cottony stuff with his hands and managed to part it enough to squirm in. He groped down for something solid to hold to, and discovered that the crown was supported by radial shoots, each three or four inches thick at the central trunk, and far enough apart a little ways out for him to wedge himself between. He got himself into the least uncomfortable position he could and tried to pull the foliage together over him. Then he simply resigned himself to waiting. The Birds' theory seemed to be right. These were commandos, a tough chosen lot; and ready for action, judging by the roughness of their training. So far, the thrusts had been tentative but demoralizing to Steve's side because there seemed no way to guard against them. Well, that was what Steve was here for -- to find out how they managed to stage into this backwoods of the galaxy, through IF all the blockades, watches and patrols the birds could devise: and how they got from here to wherever they raided. And, if possible, why Gree had chosen a world with nearly three times the air pressure normal for humanoids. Steve wasn't quite on his own. There were natives, rather primitive. that he was to contact. It was considered desirable that he survive the mission, if convenient. Knowing Gree's empire as he did, he wasn't very expendable. A t first light he unsealed his helmet and was assaulted by the forest smell: damp, sweetish, moldy. The fog was apparently thinning naturally this time. The cottony foliage turned out to be green, which made him think of it more as moss. There were no branches below him. Except for the radial crown at the top -- went straight down, with bands around it at intervals like monstrous bamboo. into the fog that still hung thick beneath the canopy. The ground was supposed to be there somewhere, three or four hundred feet down. He worked himself up cautiously and looked around, though he was pretty sure the commandos wouldn't be on the canopy in the daytime, and that their base wouldn't be close by. He was right. They'd policed up; even taking his pod with them. He hoped some supply sergeant wouldn't get a sudden burst of zeal and check records closely enough to find he had an extra pod. The canopy was coming to life. There seemed nothing that didn't fly; even the things that crept did so on adapted wings, and could fly in a pinch. There were things from insect size on up to condor size. The latter were just as wary as the small things, which suggested probably natural enemies, even bigger. The predominant body-shape was something like a manta ray, but with horizontally flat tails and welldeveloped heads on flexible necks. There was one common feature that was suggestive: everything had a third eye, on top or on the back of the head, looking to the rear. He saw no feathers and no chitinous sheaths or membranes. Everything looked rubbery. There was supposed to be a river close by. He thought it would be on this side of a ridge that he could see to the north. He plowed awkwardly in that direction, and within an hour could see the break in the jungle. He reached the edge and looked out over a placid slowflowing river at least a mile wide. He squirmed himself out of sight and studied it. There were flying things over the water, mostly of the same general pattern, and of all sizes. Fish -- the first non-flying things he'd seen, except for the Commandos -- broached the surface. There were other things that acted equally at home in the air or the water. One of those was a serpent six or seven feet long, with ribbons for wings along each side, that twisted its way through the air with a fasciIF nating motion. Nearly everything had carnivore's teeth -- and used them. He saw nothing on the ground below except some small amphibians or triphibians, but there were tracks at the water's edge. The natives were supposed to live on the other side. He got out his binoculars and settled himself to watch. II I t was past mid-day when he saw them. There were eleven, in a V formation, flapping ponderously above the opposite edge of the jungle. They wore leather harnesses and back packs, and something on their heads that he couldn't make out. He got out a signalling device, a sophisticated heliograph, adjusted it, and gave them five quick flashes. Their heads swivelled. They pulled up and hovered. There seemed to be a conference, then one flapped up higher and dipped its wings, one after another. That might be an acknowledgement. He waited. So did they. He gave them five more flashes, there was another conference, and again the flying signal. Finally they headed out across the river. Two flapped up, gaining altitude as lookouts, no doubt. The other nine stayed fairly low over the water and seemed to be hurrying. When they were close he realized with a shock that the things on their heads were not headgear, but trunks like a Terran elephant's, carried in a tight curl. As they glided down toward him -- they apparently saw him from quite a ways out -- he saw that the trunks, about the size of a man's leg, ended in three flexible digits. Less than two hundred yards away, something startled them. The two lookouts came shooting down, very fast considering the thick air. The whole eleven dove toward the riverbank a few yards downstream. Steve, who'd been briefed in their queer language that sounded like boulders being ground together, could hear one mouthing orders. They were headed for a short concave arc of riverbank, splitting into two groups to occupy ends of the arc. Two lagged a little, waiting for the others to land among the tree trunks. Then they too landed, in the focus of the arc, and turned to look up. They were very odd-looking on land. In the air they were streamlined enough; but aground on their wingtips and tails, with the forward parts of their bodies tilted up at forty-five degrees, they looked like monstrous thick three-lobed leaves with the stems pointed up. Their heads did look like elephants', except that there were no flapping ears, no tusks, and the eyes protruded, almost on stalks. He judged that the biggest -- the mature-looking one who gave the orders -- weighed twice as much as a man. H e followed their gaze. Still far up, mere dots, was a big multiple V of about three dozen flying things. They came down in a steep dive. Now he could see that they were about the size of his prospective allies, but had no trunks. Instead, they had snouts like reptiles. The smaller things over the river scattered. The diving flock checked a little a hundred yards up and out, as if suspicious. The two decoys hopped end-for-end and arrowed toward the jungle, each in a single leap and glide. They certainly looked different in the air. The lure must have been overpowering. The predators shot down in a knot, actually bumping wings. Missiles flew from both ends of the arc, and several predators flopped screeching on the sand. The others whirled away from the ambush. Defenders leaped from the jungle to grab up what missiles hadn't fallen in the river. Steve had to classify the weapons as axes. The heads were discus-shaped stones with flaked edges and holes drilled through the middles. The handles weren't fixed at right angles, but were put on like the fork of a wheelbarrow so they were free to whirl about the stone, in the same plane. The handles were light, and as the natives' trunks hurled the weapons with great force, the handles bent sharply, whipped, and finally trailed in the air. A good arrangement, everything considered. The predators were back, more cunningly this time, threatening enough to draw missiles but mostly dodging them. It was obvious the defenders would soon run out of axes and be overwhelmed. Steve stood up, laser pistol in his hand. They were ugly things, in a way, but they were his allies and they fought intelligently. He was no more capable of staying out of it than of growing an extra head. He shot coolly, breaking up the attack, not trying to stop individual predators from reaching the trees because there were too many. Some spotted him and flapped to get above him. He ignored them until they were close, then gave each a frugal rake of the beam. One landed almost on top of him, still alive enough to hop. He burned through its skull, then whirled to fire at two that had circled to take him from behind. They thudded near him. Others were coming from several directions. He knew the pistol would go dead any instant and there'd be no time to put another power unit in it. The air reeked of burnt flesh and the rusting-iron smell of blood. He saved his last few ergs of pistol energy. A stone axe flashed by him and hit the closest predator, slashing its chest badly enough to down it. His allies were out of the jungle and rallying around him, with few axes left but with wooden lances ready to fend off as well as possible. But the attackers were down to half strength and they suddenly decided they were out-matched. They wheeled in unison and shot downriver for the nearest bend. Steve got a new power unit in the pistol as his allies swooped down to salvage what axes they could. IP It took them a while to understand that he could not fly, and when they did they were silent with amazement. Then the leader asked, as nearly as Steve could understand, whether he was at home in the water, and added that the river was dangerous. Finally Steve had to demonstrate how he walked. They got busy rigging a harness so he could be carried, as they evidently carried cargo. Of the eleven, two were dead and one so badly hurt he could not fly without help. Most of the others had minor gashes. There was one thing Steve had to do before they left; dispose of the predators he'd burned. A laser wound would be recognized. He said in the native language, "Trouble, enemy," and pointed to the burns on the carcasses, touched his eyes and stared at the burns ostentatiously. They understood, and hustled to haul the carcasses out over the river and drop them. The leader said river creatures would eat them. They lifted him. dangling, and started back across the river. He was glad to get away from the stink of blood, though he didn't fail to notice that it smelled like ordinary protein-life blood. There was little talk while flying. From gestures and a few words, he understood that he'd met a military patrol and that the leader was of fairly high rank. His name sounded like "Gegego." He knew of the Birds of Effogus, and that they'd sent Steve to help in some way against the mysterious new enemy. However, despite the demonstration of the laser pistol, Steve could see in Gegego's manner skepticism as to the effectiveness of a being who couldn't even fly. Steve didn't resent that; it amused him, and in general he didn't find them too repugnant. They were fine fighters, and though they had an odor, it wasn't unbearable. This whole world assaulted his nose with such variety and determination that one more smell didn't matter. They hauled him across and up the left shore for two hours, then turned into a small side-stream and slanted down, depositing him gently on an elevated walkway or platform. They'd built a wickerwork dam here, below a long pool, and along both sides of the pool stretched a village. T he walkways were tiered one above another, from tree to tree, and the dwellings were in sections of the tree trunks, as if hole had been cut into bamboo so birds could crawl in. There were leather flaps over some of the openings. The tree trunks, this near the ground, were as much as fifteen feet through, and the natural woody divisions between sections were secure floors. The community fires were on the ground, fed by tossing down wood from the lowest platform. Most wood burned vigorously here, even when sopping wet; but the bamboo would hardly bum at all. Cooking was done by lowering the food on bamboo poles (and in bamboo pots. n il need be). There were boiled greens and grains, and flat unrisen bread, and barbequed meats. Steve thought he might as well find out at once how the food agreed with him, so he ate it, moderately. Some of the meat was a little gamey. There were only a few females, mammalian, and even fewer children. This was clearly an outpost. Gegego sent out squads in various directions, then, that afternoon, was ready to discuss the common aim. They agreed, using Steve's few words and pantomime, that the first necessity was to pinpoint the enemy and learn what they could about him without risking discovery. Gegego promised all the help possible. It seemed the Harnkrah (that was what the natives called themselves) had been missing patrols and had had one village shot up, without knowing what kind of enemy was doing those things, or where he came from. Later, Steve lay alone in his tree section, letting his mind wander over the situation as it chose. He was going to be with the natives quite a while and he didn't relish being hauled around like a fly dangling on a strand of spiderweb. Probably it would be easy to build some kind of a glider here; then at least he could be towed. He might even tinker up some kind of flaps so he could fly without help. Also, he could make stronger allies of the Harnkrah if he could work out some better weapons for them. Not to use against Gree, of course, but to make it safer for Hhern to travel in predator country. Their trunks could easily manipulate fixed catapults or crossbows, and he'd already seen that, with their strength and agility and their wide-apart eyes for good ranging, they made excellent marksmen. It was a shame, though, that they only had one trunk apiece. D uring the next twenty days or so he did little but experiment with weapons and gliders and learn all he could of the language. He picked up the latter fairly well. Gegego seized gleefully upon a heavy bow, on a post which swivelled in a solid mounting. "This," he grated, "will make our outposts easier to defend, and help us go into lands we have always wanted." He gestured to an aide. "I will send a report down-river. Soon the river will be lined with these." Steve knew by now that the Harnkrah had a loose confederation that linked the whole area between this river and another farther north, from the sea up to the vague frontier. This outpost was part of the latter. To settle any farther inland meant fighting off more predators. A dozen fixed bows in a village, with plenty of big arrows, could make a difference. Still, he didn't want to be pinned down to outposts, so he ought to work out something that could be fired from the air. "What if we made a thing like this," he asked, "but only half as big? Could you handle it aloft?" Gegego made a pondering' face. "I think, no. Not if we flew fast." IF "What," Steve asked, "if two of you flew close together? Could one hold the bow while the other pulled the string?" Gegego waved his trunk impatiently. "You do not see. We hold things in our mouths so our trunks can do something else, but the bad thing is that this weapon sticks out to the sides. The air would make it move around." "I was afraid of that. How would it be if I made something that did not stick out to the sides?" "Good, I think, if it had a shape so our trunks could hold it tight." "I'll make something." Steve said. In the process, he came to appreciate the virtues of the simple bow; which, reduced to terms of energy acceptance, transformation, storage and release, were astounding. In this thick atmosphere, though, he didn't want high initial velocity for the arrows so much as more weight; so a less efficient launcher -- as regards speed of energy release -- would do. He tried helical springs of split bamboo, formed in the heat of a fire. It was awkward to get the arrows into such a launcher and the springs bent too much laterally. What evolved was a sort of bird cage, with six splints of bamboo forming a slender cage. On one end was a ring into which the arrowshaft slipped, and against which the rear of the arrowhead pressed. On the other end was a hollow cylindrical handle, coaxial with the cage. When the handle was held firm and the ring compressed toward it, the splints belled out under tension. In the air, a Harnkrah warrior carried the weapon in his mouth, with the thick heavy arrows in a quiver. When he wanted to shoot he seized an arrow by the head and inserted the other end in the launcher, through the ring, the cage, and the handle. The fletched end protruded far enough beyond the handle to grasp with his teethThen he took hold of the handle with his trunk and thrust it forward, pulling the arrow farther through and compressing the cage. When he let go with his teeth, the arrow flew. A good sharp heavy hardwood point made it a formidable missile. Gegego hopped with delight, and acted as if he were ready to take on the whole planet. He sent weapon prototypes downriver with strong escorts, and went into production locally. Steve had less luck with his flying machines. The flap arrangements could keep him in the air, but were too tiring and too clumsy at take off. He did learn, though how to build a good glider out of bamboo and thin leather, and how to control it by shifting his weight in a comfortable sling. He had to settle for being towed to gliding altitudes. Ill R einforcements were arriving steadily and Gegego had squads pushing upstream and establishing new outposts. The local settlement grew fast and became a production center for the weapons. Steve decided it was time to send in his second report to the Birds. The sender looked like a small telescope hung in gimbals so it would always point up. Actually, it would compress, scramble and squirt at a predetermined moment any message fed into it. At the right moment, a tiny droneship would be spacing out above the planet to gulp the message and null out again with it. There was always a small chance of detection, so Steve hadn't used the system any more than necessary. He fed his report into it and set it out on a walkway where it could point to the sky. Now that he'd run out of work he was restless and moody. The smallness of the message sender, his only link with the galaxy, accentuated his isolation. He had no way of knowing whether his message would ever be heard. If not, the Birds of Effogus might just write him off and go about their investigation some other way. He paced the platform staring down at the huge fires, which were kept burning to partially dispel the night fog. Creatures of the dark flitted in and out of the dancing light. The wet wood burned with loud pops and hisses, and with a punky smell. A squad of scouts came volplaning down from riverward and landed on the lowest platform while a few youngsters, miniatures in every detail of the adults, circled excitedly. Seen from above, the Harnkrah in flight were very graceful, and aerodynamically admirable; but their total alienness bore in upon Steve. "Damn it," he muttered, "I should have thought of fermenting some beer or something. This is going to get worse." He turned toward his quarters to occupy himself rechecking equipment. He'd only been inside a few minutes when he heard Gegego's voice calling him, "Ker-nell Dookuh! Ker-nell Doo-kuh!" He got up quickly and stepped outside. He always felt better when Gegego returned. "What is it?" "A kullig with a burn like your weapon makes!" 'phe kullig -- the kind of predator Steve had fought -- was dead of wounds from the new arrows. The burn was older; a seared streak and a small hole through one wing. He said, "It's a laser, all right. But he might have gotten it anywhere." "No," Gegego said, "it would be too painful to fly far. He was on this side of the river, two days' flight above here, but I think he came from the other side. There is a concentration of kullig and smaller things there, very unusual. And there is something not right about the fog." He made wondering gestures with his trunk. "I do not see why the kullig should gather there. Surely this enemy we seek is not foolish enough to be caught by kullig." "No." "Then," Gegego continued, "they must want the kullig there. Maybe to keep us away so we will not find them. We would not have found it, if you were not here and IF ff we did not have the new weapons." Steve thought about it. He had no better clues. "Could you set me down there, on that side of the river?" "All alone? It would be very dangerous for you." "I'm not here on a vacation. I can scout the ground with some of the things I carry." Gegego said, "I will talk to some scouts and be back quickly." Steve added a hasty postscript to his report, giving the new data and the suspected location, and saying he was going to reconnoiter alone. Gegego returned and said without further protest, "Tomorrow night, as soon as the fog comes." The glider slid through fog already so thick Steve could see only the nearer of the two Harnkrah towing him, tandem. Around them, especially ahead, was a bedlam of shrieks and bellows as Gegego 's warriors bludgeoned a way clear. A contorting bulk tumbled out of the fog and into it again, and splashed into the invisible river. A swirling dogfight loomed suddenly, and the two towmen whirled aside to avoid it. The glider skidded and slammed into a kullig, which bellowed and slashed at a glider wing. Steve grinned. The glider only had to last a few seconds more. They pulled him up sharply and the edge of the jungle flashed under him. The towline went slack as the two Harnkrah hovered. He shoved his weight back to bring up the nose and the Harnkrah dropped neatly, each catching a wing. They lowered him to the canopy and he slid out of the straps and landed on the foliage as they hauled the glider up and around and vanished back toward the river. He was on his own. He squirmed down through the canopy and hooked a strap over a tree shoot, then dropped a line over it, letting the free end fall. He went down, paying out line and letting it slide over the shoot for a pulley. He landed in giant fungi, scattering small creatures in the dusk; pulled down his line and coiled it as he crouched against the tree trunk. Above the canopy he could hear the hoarse calls of kullig, but he was safe from them down here. He activated certain instruments, and, as he'd expected, heard only the onset of the nightly thunderstorm. He could hear the river on his right, so he wasn't disoriented; but rather than risk traveling at night, he thought he'd better find a place to hole up. He found a fallen tree and wedged himself under it, among clammy but harmless fungi. F or eight days he worked his tedious way west, learning how to be comfortable or at least healthy in the dank sub-world of the jungle. There was no natural danger there so long as he stayed far enough from the river where kullig or certain triphibians ventured in. There was no sign of Gree forces. On the evening of the ninth day his instruments told him he was nearing feeble electrical activity. Now his impatience was hard to control. He forced himself to explore cautiously, step by careful step, until he'd mapped out a fence a little way west of a small stream. After one more day he knew the fence made a right-angle turn at a grassy knoll, ran west more than a mile, then turned back toward the river along another creek. The whole, then, was an isolated patch of forest with a fence just inside its perimeter, roughly square, a mile and a quarter on a side. He drew back, shaved and cleaned up, cooked and ate a goosesized creature, forced himself to rest briefly, then changed into a Gree-slave gunner's uniform. He hid what equipment he wasn't taking along, and started back to the fence. By morning he was across the stream and in hiding. Two things surprised him. One was that a fog dispenser was at work, keeping the fence and the area within it clear. The other was the fence itself. He'd expected something like barbed wire, with alarm circuits, instead there was a vast basketwork of bamboo, with vertical posts spaced between the trees, reaching clear to the canopy, and strong horizontal slats woven between. He could see a few wires. At spaces, there were dim blue lights, high on the fence. He heard voices and presently a five-man patrol strode along the inside. Three were B'lant; the others men. The uniforms were assorted, so probably everyone drew fence patrol duty now and then. They carried, slung on their backs, weapons that could burn a man in two with one slash. There was another patrol twenty minutes behind the first. Each came by twice in three and a half hours, then was replaced. None of the men showed any distress in the heavy air, so they must be well acclimated. T his close, his instruments registered more electrical activity deep in the camp, but it was well screened and could not have been picked up from space. There were no large masses of metal close to him; certainly none approaching the size of even a small Scout ship. As soon as it was dark he probed along the fence until he found a gate, not guarded but locked and wired with alarms. That was what he'd have to get through, since he didn't dare climb the fence or cut a hole in it. He chose certain instruments and went to the gate. The condition of the ground showed that there'd been some heavy foot traffic through the gate recently and that didn't add to his comfort. He crouched in shadow until the next patrol passed, then ran a dim flashlight all around the gate, studying wires. He found the ones he wanted, and clipped to them, on either side of the gate, leads of his own which he stuck to the fence with gobs of sticky stuff. Working in shifts between patrols, he sealed onto the alarm wires small sleeves that looked like the kind used to repair breaks or join loose ends. These, however, were non-conducting and IF of such material that they would I not melt when he sliced through the alarm wires with a thin laser beam. He attached instruments tc his own leads and poked them inside the fence so he could reclaim them quickly from inside. If anyone turned a flashlight toward the to it. At the top were platforms, one of them hinged so it could be dropped in the daytime, out of sight from above. Now it poked up at an angle through the hole. There was a rope pulley for hoisting things. The whole place stunk of garbage. A winged form swept above the hole, barely visible in the faint blue light. Steve thought he understood. The garbage was taken up to the canopy and dumped. This drew scavengers, and kullig to prey on the scavengers, and assured the camp -- so they thought -- that the Harnkrah would stay away. The fog was probably only dispelled for a short distance above the canopy, so there was no danger of being seen from above at night, and nothing to show in the daytime. Besides, it was a better way of hiding the garbage than dumping it in the river. He grunted thoughtfully. In Gree's armies, the garbage detail was punishment, hence not composed of permanent squads. A stranger might not be noticed. He found a rotted tree with a hole near the ground, obscured by a fungus, hid his excess gear, then settled himself to wait. IV I t was two hours before he heard the detail coming. He stood near the base of the stairway, in shadow, and simply stepped into line at the right moment. The garbage tubs were sections of youne tree trunks, again saving metal. Some of the men began to hoist those on the pulley. Steve joined the ones going up the stairs. Six B'lant in clean gunners' uniforms led the way and stepped out onto the canopy, distributing themselves around the hole. Steve paired with another man to lug one of the tubs out onto the canopy, carry it to where a gunner pointed, and dump it. A horde of small things, some medium size, dove on it. Kullig circled warily. One -- perhaps a greenhorn -- croaked belligerently and swerved closer. A gunner slashed it with a weak beam. It shrieked and did a somersault in the air, caught itself and shot away. The men were mostly glum and silent, but at the bottom of the stairs one of the B'lant gunners fell in beside Steve. "What did you do, gunner, zat you get zis punishment?" Steve produced a wry grin and answered in B'lant, which he spoke perfectly, "I talked back to an Overseer." The B'lant grinned. "You were zmart. You dodge ze mock-up." Steve looked at him questioningly. "Mock-up?" "You did not hear? Zree zoiiza go out ze east gate, eight hours ago, on big mock battle. On ze ground! All zat mud and zings crawling around; and real laser guns among ze tree trunks!" Steve grunted as if in assent. It was blind luck he hadn't stumbled into that exercise too; and their being out there increased the likelihood that his tampering with the IF gate would be discovered, soon. There was nothing he could do except work as fast as he could. He chatted with the B'lant as they passed through an inner gate, almost ignored by sleepy guards. When the tubs were stacked behind the mess hall, he simply walked away as the others did. HP here were less than seven A hours of dark left now. He spent one of them prowling the camp, attaching himself first to one group then another. There was apparently considerable turnover of personnel here. The layout of the camp was a standard Gree pattern of buildings in a circle, their outer walls forming a line of defense, with the camp's functions inside the circle. In the second hour he found a closely guarded stockade fifty yards in diameter, which seemed to be the focus of the technical activity. Electrotechs, especially, were servicing something inside. The best chance for him to get in would be to pose as one of those, for which he'd need the right uniform. He watched various of the techs and finally chose a young one who seemed a little unfamiliar with the camp. He intercepted him. "Excuse me. I've just come in, and I was wondering where I could get this fixed." What he showed the man was a compact photoscanner, of a type a slave had no right to be casually carrying around. The tech glanced at it and said, "You'd better turn that in!" Steve looked as irresolute as he could. "I know, but I took it from a wreck and I don't want to have to explain. I'd pay you for fixing it, on the quiet. Or... Ed sell it cheap." Even Gree's slaves could be tempted. The young man wavered. Steve said, "At least, take a look at it for me. There's nothing wrong with that, is there?" The tech followed Steve into a shadow where light from a window cast an isolated shaft. He took the instrument from Steve and held it in the light. Steve killed him with a quick rabbit punch. He stood looking down at the inert form for a moment. "You didn't suffer any," he muttered, then dragged the body close to the building and switched uniforms. He strolled into the open, pushing aside his feeling of remorse. Now he needed some more specific excuse to enter the stockade, and maybe he could get it at the electronics supply shop. He located that and paused just inside the door until he saw a chance to pick up an ammeter that had just been placed on the tounter for checking in. He was out the door before they missed it. He walked boldly to the stockade, showed the thing to a guard, and said, "Do you have to check this through?" The guard glanced at the instrument and shook his head, and Steve walked by him without another word, and through the staggered doorways. He turned, without pausing, toward the first piece of electrical equipment he saw, whi:h was oni ut a ring of standard mobile generators. He paused beside it and looked where everyone else was looking, at a large apparatus in the middle of the stockade. T here was a metal platform, a few inches above the ground, with electrodes or projectors of some kind pointing toward it from six sides and from above. Thick cables led to the electrodes from generators like the one beside him, and other cables converged to a control panel where techs were making adjustments. There was an expectancy. One of the techs pushed a control and a glowing spot appeared above the platform at the focus of the electrodes. It expanded until it was a luminescent bubble clinging above the platform. A warning buzzer sounded and there was suddenly a humanoid, one of the Overseer race, in the bubble. He was in a clear plastic balloon -- not a pod with fittings, but a mere bag, tied at its neck with a cord. The bag looked very rigid with pressure. The luminescent bubble collapsed and the bag wrinkled. The Overseer inside slashed himself free with a knife and stepped out. A tech hurried to pick up the collapsed bag and stuff it into a hopper. The new arrival was already off the platform and talking to the Overseer in charge locally. The bubble formed again, and another humanoid, a slave, appeared in an identical bag. Now they came at intervals of a few seconds, calmly, forming into squads and marching away. At the last, wounded came, all under their own power, some with splints or extensive bandages. Finally another Overseer materialized, this one wounded, judging from his limp, though Steve couldn't see because he wasn't in simple coveralls but in a complex plastic suit. Steve eyed the suit curiously. It wasn't a standard space type. Of course, they might use a special kind, for this heavy pressure... Then, suddenly, he saw the whole setup. It was an underwater suit! That was why they used this planet -- men based here, living in this air, were already adapted to diving! Sea commandos; and that explained many things. But that wasn't important now. The important thing was the apparatus that transferred them! There was no problem in nulling a man in a pod, or a suit, or anything else of such small size and mass; but any object had to come out of null into virtual vacuum. Not that a few atoms of hydrogen, say, couldn't be shunted aside, but anything as substantial as an atmosphere -- even one percent of this one -- would demand impossible techniques and energy levels. What Gree had here, then, must be an apparatus for forcing all the air out of a certain spot, and a null-coordination system accurate enough to hop an object exactly into the evacuated spot. The theory wasn't new. The practice was supposed to be impossible. Obviously, it wasn't. Implications came to IF Steve. One base, a few thousand commandos, meant nothing now. Such a device could land armies right through a blockade! He had to get word out. H e turned to the generator and pretended to be testing it, using the ammeter and his body to hide the photoscanner. He got as many shots as he dared of the apparatus, not neglecting the cables nor the control panel. Then he stowed the scanner under his uniform and considered means of escape. What he had to do was get back to where he'd hidden his message-squirter in a rotting tree, and feed in what the photoscanner held -- then get away from the sender and avoid capture until the message was sent. He didn't know when that would be, but it would probably be during the next day. There wasn't apt to be another garbage detail tonight, so he couldn't use that again. At least, he'd better get out of this hot spot. He started toward the stockade exit, and paused. Something was up. Guards were listening to their helmet radios, and presently several of them left. Steve's mind raced. The chances were, they'd found the man he'd killed, but hadn't identified him yet. Otherwise they'd be swarming to this stockade, not away from it, and grabbing everyone in an electrotech uniform. Ditto about the gate. Nevertheless, it was too late to leave the stockade, let alone get through the inner fence. Not by stealth. So, if he couldn't sneak out, he'd have to break out; and the first step was to create a diversion; invent the biggest rumpus he could. The closest thing to hand was the generator. This model had its own grav units so it could be flown, and a platform where an operator could stand. It would be clumsy and slow, a childishly easy target for even a hand gun, so he couldn't just jump on it and fly away. But he might create an excuse for flying it away. He slid open the cover of the fuelfeed compartment and went to work. The fuel was a carefully drawn wire of a heavy alloy, stable under ordinary conditions but readily and cleanly fissionable in the chamber. If the wire fed too fast there could be a runaway. If things really got hot the whole spool of wire could fission at once. Regulators made that almost impossible as an accident -- but regulators could be destroyed. He got through some rods, then melted a bimetallic component that was supposed to clamp down under heat With his fingers, he pulled the wire through the primary feed gate so there was a loose loop, being drawn too rapidly into the chamber. When things began cooking he moved on to the next generator as if he were testing them all. He didn't take the risk of sabotaging that one too, as many eyes would be alert now. He moved unobtrusively aside. S omeone shouted. There was a shocked silence, then a stampede for the exit that quickly II lammed it. Steve ran back toward the generator. He shouted at a tech foreman who had stood his ground hoping to do something, but who was about to change his mind. Steve grabbed his arm. "The cables. Get them off! I'll fly it away!" He jumped onto the operator's platform and threw switches. The foreman gaped, then understood and ran to disconnect the cables. They dropped free and Steve lifted the awkward bulk. He hoped the accumulators held enough charge to keep the gravs working. He looked down at the faces turned up to him and could read the terror and the hope. He got over the stockade wall and fought the controls to weave a path among the trees. The heat was scorching -- he knew fission far away. He'd cut it too fine! He'd never reach the dump area in time. Desperately, he tilted the front end up and poured on power. He clung to hot metal as the generator rammed into the canopy, slewed and thrust upward again and finally broke through. He hurled himself to one side and buried his face in the foliage. If the generator got far enough into the fog... Incredible brightness came through his fingers and squeezed eyelids, and shock waves hit him, one, two, like giant fists. He was up and scrabbling away before the glow in the fog was gone. He wasn't burned much. If he got treatment before too long, the radiation wouldn't matter. He forced himself to stop and think. Which way was the garbage dump? There might be several, in a ring around the camp. He'd have to trust his instinct for direction; whatever recollection he had of the direction he'd been headed. A few feeble lights gleamed under the canopy, but they didn't help. Something blundered into his shoulder and flapped away with a thin cry. Probably the blast had blinded a lot of things. He moved on the Vay he'd started. Wings whooshed over him and he drew the pistol, but kept going and the kullig didn't come down. He went as fast as the foliage would let him. Someone would have done some thinking by now, and they'd soon be on the canopy after him. His lungs ached; it was like trying to run through high weeds. A blue light winked on, to his left and ahead. He heard B'lant and human voices, and at least one Overseer. They spread out and now he could see gunner uniforms and the heavy beamers. There might be a slim chance he could surrender, playing it innocent, and not be burned down until he got a chance to use his own pistol or grab one of the heavier weapons. They wouldn't be sure, on the spot, that he wasn't a legitimate hero... The alternative was to go down through the canopy, hope to find a tree tall enough to reach and slender enough to slide down. On the ground, he might still reach the message sender. More blue lights appeared on the IF other side of him, and now he saw some below, on the ground. That hope was gone too. He crouched, listening. Something small crept by him. He grabbed it and hurled it high and to the side. It screeched and one of the nearest squad sent a bolt toward it, and was cursed by the squad leader. Steve rolled onto another crown, hoping to get behind the squad. A heavy beam lashed at him from another direction and someone yelled, "There he is!" Blue flashlights swung his way. He waited, pistol ready. He might take a few with him. All the lights suddenly went out and there were startled oaths. Squads called out to each other, questioning, until an Overseer's voice harshed, "Silence!" Steve's stomach went tight. There'd been rumor among the Birds of a suppressor blanket that stilled all electrical activity above a very low level. He moved very quietly. An Overseer called, "Get some glow bulbs and chemical rifles up here!" Someone, whimpering, stumbled into the crown beside Steve. Steve got away from him as fast as he could without making noise. The man thrashed around until wings swept down, then he screamed in terror. The wings turned and came back, and this time the scream was pure agony that ended in a bubbling sound. It hadn't taken the kullig long to discover that the rules were changed. They'd be hunting by sound, now. Somewhere, another man screamed. Suddenly there was weird light. Objects tumbled from the fog ceilgas that mixed with the air and continued to glow, spreading ghostly luminescence over the canopy. There was an explosion somewhere that made the trees shake, and three more in quick succession. Incandescence erupted half a mile away, boiled up into the fog and faded. A rattle of rifle fire broke out somewhere and spread, the old cartridge kind. There was shouting everywhere now. An ancient bulletfiring machine gun went burp-burpburp-burp, somewhere close, and ended in a bang like an explosive bullet. Close to Steve, a squad led by an Overseer with glow bulbs tied around his waist came up out of a hole, lugging another machine gun, and frantically set it up. Steve crept toward them with his knife out. A kullig swooped toward the squad. The Overseer turned to put an explosive bullet into it, and as he did he saw Steve. Steve's knife beat the revolver but he only stuck the Overseer in the shoulder and the pistol steadied again. Huge arrows flashed into the dim light and knocked the Overseer flat, and the flight of Harnkrah wheeled and split and came in again from two sides and rained arrows on the squad. Steve lay still because they wouldn't recognize him in this uniform. Then something that was not a Harnkrah and not a kullig came flapping over. Steve called, "Here! Here! It's Duke!" The slow wings, feathered ones, turned toward him and the Bird of Effogus came down to land on its elf-human feet, swearing softly as they tangled in the foliage. "Colonel? What air! Like flying in molasses!" More of the Birds converged, carrying toysized rifles that must have fired the unfamiliar explosive bullets, mopping up and forming a cordon around Steve and the highranking Bird who'd landed. That one had found a better place to stand, and now folded its wings and smoothed them with its miniaturehuman hands, so that it looked like an elf wearing a bulky cloak. "What a world!" it whispered, "We got worried when you reported you were taking off alone, and came down to talk to your friends. When that blast went off we recognized your delicate touch, and called the ships down." It chuckled. "How did our blanket work? It's never been tried before on a large scale." "It worked," Steve said. His throat felt tight. There weren't enough of the Birds so they took part in many actual battles, and they'd come down after him. "I... didn't expect you," he said foolishly. He watched another Harnkrah approach, and recognized Gegego. Gegego was calling loudly, and in a moment other Harnkrah appeared towing Steve's glider, which made the high-ranking bird chuckle dryly again. "Are you all right?". Gegego asked anxiously, landing. He and the high-ranking Bird seemed to know each other already, exchanging nods. Steve thought, Vm a little out of place among all these flying things... Then he remembered something, and felt better again. "Sir, there are three thousand armed commandos on the ground somewhere, on maneuvers, and they undoubtedly know what's happened. I think we'd better get on about rounding them up, so we can write this whole Next month in IF -- A complete novelette of the strangest battle in space -- between man's navies and the unmanned Berserker vessels! by Fred Saberhagen by Eric Frank Russell -- and many others. Reserve your copy today! IF IF  Short Story Invulnerable, handsome, strong, perceptive -- why did the Zombies long so passionately for death? T he cold winter night was seeping into the nuclear submarine pens and the hour was late. However, a surprise inspection is just that and Rear Admiral Zagorski was at least warmly dressed. Now that the inspection was going well he was even becoming pleased. That was atremendous change from his first reaction on being dragged out of bed at a late hour of the night. Only two possibilities had occurred to him then. The first and least likely was war. And the second -- well, as an officer and a non-party member he slept with a gun in his hand. As it had turned out, it was a surprise inspection by none other than General Kazan himself. Midnight was an odd hour for an inspection but the general's unorthodox methods were well known. He hurried from ship to ship with only his own aide and the admiral. There he would look about with his hands in his overcoat, not even bothering to wake the crews or the maintenance groups. Sometimes he disappeared into the interiors of the atomic submarines while his aide occupied the admiral with the usual questions that the brass invariably have asked. At other tirties the general would stand with him talking in perfect Russian, but for his native Georgian drawl, while his aide would disappear into the submarines, only to return and quickly move on. Pleased with himself, the admiral found himself smiling as the inspection drew to a close. He stared at the big, broad-bodied general and thought that he looked much bigger than he did in his pictures. But there was no mistaking that face. Then the general pointedly made clear that he was not inspecting to find things that shined and sparkled as they would in any regular inspection. He wanted to get the general gist of the operation. He even made a little joke with the admiral -- said he wanted what the American Army would call "the Big Picture" -- and they laughed quietly together. All in all, he seemed pleased with what he saw and praised the admiral casually. Admiral Zagorski was so pleased that he went overboard to arrange transportation for the general. His tactics on his lightning inspection tours were well known. To preclude forewarning, he was arranging all his transportation as he went, without using his rank or name. A helicopter was quickly sent to the underground pens to take him to the air field near Leningrad. Until it came the general and the aide were guests of the admiral and they drank vodka and talked lightly. Before following his aide into the helicopter the big general stood for a moment looking down into the admiral's face while the wind blew between them. "Zagorski," he said. "I would continue to sleep with that pistol handy, were I you." Zagorski numbly returned his salute and watched him board the helicopter. A Begal was warmed up and waiting on the tarmac as the helicopter settled down close by. A covey of military police and the officer of the day met the general and escorted him to the waiting plane. Once inside he told the pilot to clear for Kiev but that would change at the last minute and go to Kharkov. However, since he wished to make a surprise inspection there, it was necessary that the tower not be informed of the true destination. The pilot, like everyone in the military, was familiar with the general's eccentricities. Even more important, he knew what the general had done in the past with subordinates who objected. There was no question and quickly the plane was in the air. The general and his aide settled down to wait. Shortly after the pilot had veered from Kiev to Kharkov a message was received over the radio system. The general and his aide joined the two pilots in the cockpit. It seemed that a missile complex on the Kola Peninsula had been sabotaged. While they waited for further information a second message came through. The submarine pens near Vyborg had also been sabotaged. "That's where you were, wasn't it, sir?" asked the pilot, a colonel. "Yes," answered the general, standing behind him. Looking sideways he could see his aide standing behind the co-pilot. "We're only twenty minutes from Kharkov now, sir," the pilot said. IF "We'll have to clear for their pattern now." "That's too much trouble to bother with," General Kazan said in perfect English. As the two pilots turned in surprise to look up at him, he and his aide brought heavy arms down on the pilots' heads, crushing them. Less than two hours later they were free-falling near Samsun in Turkey. As their chutes opened and slowed them, Kazan watched the plane starting back across the water. He chuckled to himself as he thought of the trouble somebody was going to have trying to trace its whereabouts. Its autopilot would carry it about half way across the Black Sea before the bomb they'd left was triggered. Then, out of sight of land, there would be an explosion and the plane would fall into the sea. Poor General Kazan, he thought. If they even begin to trace this night's activities, it is all going to be at your doorstep. Just outside of Samsun they met their pickup and soon were at one portation back to the States was waiting. T he doctor met them at the airport with a car. No sooner were they in it than he turned to them. "Well done," he said. "Now listen. You know how short-handed we are. Well, one of you has to make the change right away so he can be going again by the end of next week. I've a job for the other." When neither of them said anything to him he ordered, "Don't sit there talking to each other! I don't have the equipment here to listen in." "Okay, Doc," said the one who had been the aide. "We're both pretty close to the deadline. Bat the general there -- " he gestured to the other -- "has less time left." "Oh? So it's the general now," the gray-haired doctor said. "You're letting rank go to your head, Pete." "I thought I made a pretty good general," answered Pete pleasantly. "My turn next time," laughed Joel, the ex-aide. "Well, la-dee-da," growled the doctor. "I'm the one that puts the faces on. So I think I'll be the one to decide who is going to impersonate whom." # wonder what they've got cooked up now that's so hot ? Pete sent Joel. Then he asked out loud, "How did it really go over there?" The doctor gave him a long look, then shifted so that he'd be more comfortable talking over the front seat. "Perfectly," he said slowly. "Total destruction on both. It'll be years before they'll have them back in the condition they were before your visit. As for Kazan himself --  well, Admiral Zagorski sang very nicely when the Cheka finally caught up with him." "Give 'em much of a chase?" Pete asked. "Took three of them," answered the doctor. Pete's face smiled. "But he named Kazan and the OD at the Leningrad place concurred. They'll both be shot, and with no alibi Kazan will go down with n them." he stopped chuckling. "They're having fits trying to figure out what happened to that plane." Then the car stopped before a guarded gate and the conversation with the doctor ceased. The two in the back seat continued to discuss the new job in their own manner; this made no sound, however. The car pulled up in front of a large, single-storied building. The seat protested with squeaks as Pete slid his heavy body across it to the door. He got out, staring at the building and the legend above the began to file silently into the building a thought crossed his mind. In a way it all started here. T he Cold War had never taken the turn so much feared in the fifties and sixties. Instead, with the emergence of Red China as a major world power, it had degenerated into a hot war of intrigue. Unfortunately, this was no more final a solution -- without escalation to total war -- than the earlier situation. In this atmosphere there was an almost accidental meeting imaginative President at a cocktail party one evening. The scientist had been specializing in prosthesis. Only he went farther; he developed a completely prosthetic man. The one problem that he couldn't solve directly was the brain, the mind. He finally did this indirectly by utilizing the findings of another field. The computer people, while working with biophysicists, had developed a plasma capable of recording and sustaining brain patterns. Their intent had been to find some way of preserving the mind while performing extensive operations on the brain. In the past such operations had been unsuccessful because the patient's personality or reason, or both, were altered radically. Almost by accident it was discovered that the brain, when successfully transferred, could operate independently of its organic body, with no loss of personality or reason. When the two developments were mated, the Zombie was born. The body was physically perfect, though it stood six-six and weighed three hundred pounds. Near-perfect synthetic skin made the resulting figure impossible to tell from a human being, except by microscopic or X-ray examination. It was possible to sensitize the eyes in both the infra-red and the normal bands, so that vision would be perfect even at night. The new, compact transceivers could be buried into the body, activated by thought, achieving an almost telepathic result. The body could withstand extreme ranges of temperature and great shock. However, it was not without its defects. Not everyone could operate one. The brain transfer involved such prolonged pain that few could survive it without insanity. And it was discovered (after four deaths) that three weeks was the maximum time that the brain could survive outside of its natural body. After that, it deteriorated rapidly. IF The President had listened carefully to the scientist, then had dipped into his emergency fund to finance what came to be called Operation Zombie; it was a compact army of superb spies and saboteurs, made up of almost unstoppable and unkillable men. Zombies. And that's what I am, thought Pete, as he stopped before a door marked No Admittance. H e swung the door open slowly and looked in. There was an iron lung on one side of the room, with a man lying in it who waved feebly at him. "Hi, George," he said kindly. Then he looked at his own body. It lay on the other bed in the room. The face was disfigured and half burnt away. The legs were thin and half wasted and so were the arms. Crippled and ugly for twenty-two years of my life, he thought. And not even enough nerve ends to graft to. Hey , Pete . came the thought into his head. You keep sending out pleasant thoughts like that and  will get out of this overcoat and let you have that job without an argument. Pete realized that he had unconsciously been sending while he thought. He, as all the others, had to be careful; otherwise everyone would know what he was thinking all the time. Every thought wasn't necessarily sent, but thought was the way the transmitter was triggered and any thought could be sent. And these thoughts aren't any more pleasant to them than me, he thought; but he didn't want to send that. It was strange to him, but only the crippled and the infirm seemed to make a success, with the overcoats, as the prosthetic bodies were called. It seemed that only those who wanted out of their bodies so terribly bad that they would go through hell -- which was approximately what it felt like -- could do it. The time sense was distorted during the five-minute process, and the pain (which was indescribable) seemed to last for years. He personally felt that it wasn't even subjectively that long. But after a while of unabated and unvarying pain it didn't seem to make such difference. You couldn't black out or faint and you didn't grow numb. You went through it once to get in, and once to get out. Every time. It was hell. Sometimes an operative would come back from a mission to find that his physical body had expired. Then there was only the wait for death. The deterioration of the mind in the plasma wasn't painless either. The time it took was just as .subjectively lengthened as the transfer. One Zombie had come back that way... and stuck his head in the atomic furnace so he could die painlessly. Pete! sent the doctor. He knew the doctor was using his desk console and really couldn't blame him; that man had invented the damned overcoats but he was too smart to get in one. Get on down to the office , Pete? Coming, he sent as he closed the door and started down the hall. But not for God , country, or mother! and he sent that too, before he closed off his thoughts again. Currently he'd been informed that the research boys were working on the sleep factor. It was fact that an operative in his overcoat needed no sleep and found it impossible to get any. This had pfbved an asset more often than a hindrance; however, they claimed that this might be the key to the three-week limit and might explain why transfer to fresh plasma resulted in death for the operative. Only by transfer to the natural-born body could the operative's life be prolonged. Then, too, on return to the natural body the brain just went to sleep. The length seemed to depend directly on how much time had been spent in the overcoat. Then he was at the office. J oel, the doctor and one other man were seated there. 'Bout time, Joel sent. " 'Bout time," sputtered the console. "Let's not be kids," said the doctor tiredly. "When you've something to say, just say it. Don't act like rookies!" "Yes, sir, Doc!" two voices boomed out of the console. The doctor frowned and leaned back in his chair with his pipe. And that's something else they didn't tell us, Pete thought. The prosthetic bodies could see, tell a difference in temperature, and had a pretty good sense of touch; they just couldn't derive any physical pleasure. They were built to look exactly like a man at all times. They could smoke, drink and eat but there was no sensation to it. The chemists had even told Pete that he'd been poisoned four times. He hadn't known it. "Well," Pete said. The doctor flipped off the desk console and asked, "What's the weakest part of our organization?" What do you think he's got up his sleeve this time? sent Joel. Beats me! sent Pete. He said, "The number of us. There aren't very many. Then, this place right here. One bomb and there's going to be an awful lot of dead me walking around." "That," stated the man who'd not spoken, "is why I'm here. You don't know me but that's not necessary." Another one, sent Joel, Looks down his nose at us Zombies. "We going to work together?" Pete asked. The man looked away from him without any desire to work together on his face. "We caught him trying to get into this place while you were... away," said the doctor. "He's on our side now. Has to be... But we're wasting time. Neither of you has much more than twenty-one hours. So who's going?" "I am," answered Pete quickly. Pete ! Joel sent. I've got at least three hours on you. I should be the one to go. Not if you had seventeen hours on me, Pete sent. IF You're pushing your luck, sent Joel. You trying to kill yourself? I don't know , Pete sent. Aloud he said, "I'll go down to surgery so they can be changing this face of mine. You wouldn't want anybody to wonder what Kazan was doing walking around while he was being taken before a firing squad. Tust radio me the dope." Then he turned and walked quickly out. "They always act like that?" asked the stranger, sneering. "What are you trying to say?" Joel snapped as he came to his feet. The doctor shrugged and flipped on the console. "Joel," he said. "You go on down to the transfer room. I'm really going to need you next week. The sooner you're out the better I'll feel." "Why not two of us on this job?" Joel asked angrily. "I just want one man killed," answered the doctor. I t was almost nine at night when Pete finally stood in the street. Looking up Broadway, it seemed like nothing but night clubs all the way to the tunnel and on both sides of the street. For a moment he couldn't help but stand and enjoy the night scene. He could, if he wanted, see it as clear as day; but he didn't use his infrared vision. The contrast of the night and the lights was too pleasing without it. He stood for several minutes as the wind flipped his trench coat; he knew that the wind was cold, but he wasn't cold. Finally he patted the .# under his arm and joined the crowd. He had a different face, and a different name, and the papers to prove both. He also had a man to find and twelve hours were gone. He knew where to go now, though. As he casually walked with the crowds toward his destination he ran over what he knew again. The principal man involved was called Linder. He was a free-lance vendor of information; he sold to the highest bidder, no matter what nation, and often to more than one. He held the reins over a small-time outfit of hoods in the city. It often works that way, he thought. They have money and they can get in with the crooks and the gangsters. They let themselves be used till they have control -- and then there's just one more gangster in the river. Poor guy, thought Pete. He should have kept his nose out of Operation Zombie. We're too vulnerable. We can't even be presented to the American public because we kill and sabotage. Up ahead was a little nightclub, the kind specializing in second-rate strip-tease and watered-down drinks. A small-time hood by the name of Scobbs owned it with a silent partner called Gilby. They used it as a front for their more lucrative activities, like the one Linder was coming to see them about tonight. In a way, he thought, I'm doing them a favor Linder would have them both in the river inside a year. His thoughts ended as he came up to the entrance of the club. Music, laughter, and talk flowed out of the door. Well, thought Pete, it's time to go back to work. The bouncer eyed him warily as he came in. Pete returned his stare. "Scobbs here?" he asked, letting a sneer fill his face. "Whadaya want with him?" the bouncer asked, standing in his way. "That," said Pete, "is between Scobbs and myself, punk!" The bouncer stood undecided for a moment and Pete almost laughed. The guy didn't know whether he should take insult from him, or whether he was a friend of Scobbs or not. Before he'd made up his mind Pete said, "I'll wait." And he walked around him. H e sat at a table that had a "Reserved sign" on it. From it he could watch the door and keep his back to a wall. On the small stage a shapely girl was dropping the last of her clothes and wiggling more or less in time to the music. A waitress came up to his table and said, "This table is reserved." Pete looked slowly up at her. Two men were coming through the door. The bouncer stopped one of them and pointed toward Pete. "I don't mind at all, honey," he said, standing up. The men looked at him for a moment and then went past the bar and through a door marked private. The bouncer started toward Pete. "Okay, buddy," he said as he came closer. "I'm going to take you around back and show you just who's a punk and who's not." It was merely a feeling, but he was sure there was another standing close in behind him. "Do I walk?" asked Pete. "Or does it taka two of you punks to carry me?" They were big men and each grabbed one of Pete's arms. He didn't resist, but simply relaxed and allowed them to drag him. Together they managed to get him past the bar and through the back door, but they were surprised at his weight. As the door slammed shut behind, the second man put a full nelson on Pete while the bouncer took his time taking off his coat and rolling up his sleeve. "You haven't been a bouncer for long." It was a statement the way Pete said it "I've got a rod." "That, buddy," the bouncer said, "you'll never get a chance to use." "No," said Pete, smiling. "I just won't need to." He shifted his weight so that the man holding him had to support it, and at the same time he shoved backwards with his feet. All his weight slammed the man into the wall only a few feet behind. The bouncer jumped forward and Pete lashed out with his foot, catching the man in the knee and dropping him to his hands and knees. Breaking the nelson, he swung his arm down on the bouncer's head. Then, reversing, he brought his other fist into the face of the other. Pete stood up, straightened his tie, and went back inside. One of the men would never get up again. The other would wish he couldn't. The bartender's face went white as Pete stepped through the door. When he made a move for whatIP ever he kept under the bar, Pete casually opened his coat so that his gun was visible. The bartender went back to wiping the bar top and Pete turned to the door marked "Private". It was locked. He broke the knob off in his hand, opened the door and walked in. He followed a short hall to a thick door. Deciding it must be the door to Scobbs' office, he tried it, found it open and walked in. There were two men in the room. One, Scobbs, sat behind an over-large desk; the other, Gilby, stood in the middle of the room. There was also a girl. He only glanced at her as he closed the door but it was enough to notice that she was tied in her chair. He was also sure that she was the most beautiful woman that he'd seen, even though her face was red and puffed. Evidently Gilby had been slapping her. W hat the hell?" snapped Scobbs from the desk. "Just a friendly little call," smiled Pete as he tossed the broken knob onto the desk. It gave him a pleasant feeling to see the expressions on men's faces as the knob bounced across the desk and off into Scobb's lap. "I'm a friend of Linder's. Can you tell me where he's to be found?" Pete asked, moving close to Gilby. "I never seen you before," Gilby said. He was a big man but found himself looking up at Pete. "He's coming here," whimpered the girl in the chair. "You stay shut up!" shouted Gilby, starting to slap her. Pete caught his arm, straightened it out and broke it at the elbow. "That'll make it a little harder to get to your gun," he laughed as Gilby screamed. He continued to hold onto the man's arm. "Be good," he continued. "Or I'll start jerking it." Then he turnfed to face Scobbs, who hadn't moved. "Scobbs," he said quietly. "I dare say you've a gun somewhere. Try for it and you're a dead man." He dropped Gilby's arm and Gilby winced. "You move," Pete said, moving behind the chair to untie the girl, "and I'll break the other one." As he untied her he became aware once again just how beautiful she was. She had a classical face and a full body and long blond hair. That's another thing, he thought bitterly. You still have the wants -- and you can't do a damn thing about them. Then she was loose and he told her to stay where she was. "Gilby," Pete asked, "who's the girl?" "Ask her yourself!" "T'm..." "Be quiet, honey," Pete said sharply. As he moved back to Gilby he talked mildly. "What, pray tell, Gilby, did I tell you?" When there was no answer he jerked the arm again. "Okay!" Gilby moaned. "She's the niece of..." "I have a gun pointed at the middle of your back," said a voice from the doorway. "Raise the hands slowly." "Linder, I suppose?" The man # didn't answer but the expression on Scobbs' face gave Pete the answer. "Now would be a good time to get your gun out, Scobbs," Pete sneered. A s Scobbs went for it, Pete wheeled Gilby between him and the doorway. He had his own gun out and shot Scobbs in the head before the little man had his drawer open. Two slugs from the gun of the man at the door ripped through Gilby and he screamed. Then, with tlifr dead weight of Gilby pulling him off balance, Pete was firing at Linder. Then his right leg collapsed. He fell. Linder's face dropped away as he tumbled backward with his blood spurting out of his neck. Pete rolled Gilby's body off him and started to stand up, only to fall heavily on his face. One of Linder's bullets had gone through his right knee. The leg was useless. Then the girl was helping him. He thought that it was amazing that she'd come through untouched -- and that she was very beautiful. "Hand me the chair," he said. She did, a strange expression on her face. Pete broke the front legs and the seat off the chair. Then, using it as a crutch, he managed to stand up. "Is there a back way out of here?" he asked. "Yes. Behind that curtain." She pointed. "You're very beautiful, you know," he said, putting his left arm over her shoulders. She kissed him quickly on the cheek and helped him out through the curtains. As they slid into the taxi she'd flagged down. The police cars were converging on the club. "I wonder what that's all about?" asked the driver after Pete had given him the destination. "A riot," Pete said. He took both of the girl's hands in his so that she couldn't look too closely at his leg, searching for blood that wasn't there. Then he decided to keep her really occupied so he pulled her close and kissed her. She responded. He could tell that much. But it was pure nothing to him. No wonder they call us Zombies, he thought. But he really didn't want to think about it; she was too beautiful. And -- bitter thought -- any woman would be too beautiful for him, anyway. There was construction going on at the Bay Bridge. They were detoured to the next one. The first pang of fear crossed his mind as he looked quickly at his watch; only two hours left. Pete cursed to himself for the delay and for being forced together with this beautiful woman. Oh, they gave you a handsome face, he thought, and a perfect body. A real walking Valentino. His thoughts remained as black while she sat close to him and the taxi sped on. As it was, they were in Oakland, driving around Lake Merritt, when the cabbie's radio beeped into life. What it said was clear and simple: "Man and woman sought. Man: handsome, about six-six, dark hair, maybe limping with right or left leg. Woman... The cabbie hit the brakes and brought the car to a sudden stop. He wasn't sure, but that cabbie wasn't taking any chances. He jumped out the door and started running. It was so quick that by the time Pete recovered the man was twenty feet away. He slammed open his door and held his gun out. "Stop! Or I'll fire," he yelled. The man didn't even hesitate. Pete could have dropped him at the range but he put the gun back into his holster. Quickly he wrote a name and a telephone number on a slip of paper and gave it to the girl. "Get out and find a phone," he snapped. "Tell them where you are. They'll pick you up; tell them I'll met a chopper just this side of the tunnel if I can't make it to the pickup point." She hesitated, reading it. "Move!" snapped Pete. "But this is my uncle's name," said the girl hoarsely. "Well, that explains what you were doing at Scobbs place -- but move!" He was already crawling over the seat. With one foot he wasn't going to be driving very well, but he had a chance -- if he could get far enough before they set up roadblocks. The girl clear, he punched the accelerator. Lights I can ignore, he thought as he roared through a red one at an increasing pace. But my time is running out... I t was beginning to look easy as he passed the last of the houses. To his left the road bordered a sharp drop off, a long ravine with an inclined side and lots of trees and brush. He saw the red light in the rear view mirror at the same time he heard the siren behind him. Good for you, cabbie, he thought. But there was only a mile left to the tunnel and the pickup point was at the other end. At half a mile to go his infrared. vision could see the otherwise invisible road block. The car behind him was still gaining. He went another quarter mile closer before he swung the wheel hard to the left, crossed the double line and threw himself into the back seat. The car flew off the edge of the road. The sirens were still going somewhere and the car was spinning over and over. He prayed he didn't hit anything hard enough to completely flatten the car and entrap him. Then there was a lurch, the smell of gasoline, a sliding and an explosion. He sat watching the car burning for a moment. He could have gotten out, but he was just as happy to have been thrown clear. Even when it dosn't hurt it's not a nice feeling to know that you're burning. He'd had two hours last time he'd looked and he looked at his watch again; it had stopped. He rolled over and began crawling up the ravine toward the tunnel and the pickup spot. His body wouldn't grow tired nor hurt, but panic and doubt could still assail his mind. If only Operation Zombie had some kind of jurisdiction in the states all this would be unnecessary. Fat chance that, he laughed to himself. They can't even make it public what we're really organized to do. He continued to crawl, knowing that till the fire was out they'd assume he was probably in the car or somewhere nearby. They'd never suspect that a man could survive a tumble like that and walk or even crawl away. Not till they'd not found him in the car anyway. Besides, he wasn't a man. The doctor's niece is beautiful, he thought hazily, beginning to grow tired. The two things hit him at once; he was in love with a girl he'd only known for a few hours. Sleep meant death. He couldn't die now. Not now. Up above he could see the bridge; beyond that was the tunnel. Just up that slope, he thought while his head started to spin; and he knew he didn't really want to get to the pickup spot because he was in love and that was useless and... his head began to spin and there were people and the world tilted upside down and there was noise and there was pain. The pain wouldn't stop. It went on and on, and he couldn't think while the pain went on. P ete opened his eyes slowly and stared at the white ceiling above him. Then he remembered the pain and looked down at his body. His own gnarled and wrinkled arms were crossed over his chest He could see his almost useless legs curled under the sheet. He closed his eyes to hold back the tears that he knew would come. This was the real Pete; this was the way he was and always would be. That was engraven bitterly into his heart and mind, whether in his human or Zombie body. This was a hell and a pain far worse than any transfer could ever be for him. Later, when his eyes had dried, he painfully managed himself out of bed and into his harness and crutches. As he stood up two icchs came into the room. "Hi ya, Pete!" one of them called cheerfully. "We'd sure given you up for a goner." Pete stood unsteadily, watching ugly face, but it was lost in the wrinkles and folds. "That was some operation that you pulled off last night," the tech continued. "I sure wish I could qualify for an overcoat. Gosh, but you're lucky!" What Pete croaked then wasn't understandable since his larynx had been ruined and he couldn't speak. The tone, however, was perfectly clear. Then he staggered out of the room. "What's with him?" the tech asked. "Beats me," replied the other tech. "You'd think they didn't like anything or anybody very much the way they act most of the time." They shrugged at each other, wondering what guys like Pete had that enabled them to qualify for the overcoats when they couldn't.      IF IF  Serial Second of Three The worlds of men were defenseless before the strangest creature ever spawned in space -- the Starchildl I f the catacombs of the Machine were the nerve center of the Plan of Man, then the great State Hall of the Planner was its heart. Huge as a hangar for jetless spacecraft, ornate as a Pharaoh's tomb, it housed the most powerful man in the history ot the human race, and it was worthy of him. The walls were paneled in gold. Crescent-shaped lunettes were frescoed with scenes of the nine planets and thousand lesser worlds on which the Plan of Man reigned supreme. In the great hall, a score of attendants waited on the Planner's will: Machine Major Boysie Gann is assigned to duty on Polaris Station, the artificial sun-satellite orbiting far beyond Pluto that constitutes one of the Plan Worlds' picket stations protecting the inner planets from the Reefs of Space. He discovers that his commander, Colonel Zafar, is involved in some undercover activity, but before he can do anything about it he is captured and marooned on one of the Reefs. There he meets a hermit, Harry Hickson, who feeds him, shelters him -- and disappears. A girl from the Reef settlements, Quarla Snow, rescues him, but when he tells her about Harry Hickson she refuses to believe him. For she knows Hickson very well... and she knows that Harry Hickson has been dead for years. Yet there is no doubt in Gann's mind that the man he saw is the same Harry Hickson! The mystery is beyond solving for him, but it is only one part of a greater mystery. For Harry Hickson is linked with the strange religious cult, the Church of the Star, and somehow connected with that church is a queer, unbelievable, almost legendary figure called the Starchild. Who is the Starchild? No one knows. What is the Starchild? No one can say. Gann's life in the Reefs does not last long enough for him to solve these mysteries. Quarla's father, a doctor, receives a new patient, who is Colonel Zafar -- dying -- rambling deliriously about the Starchild and about strange powers. And yet it is not all delirium, for something happens that is beyond all Gann's powers of understanding: He finds himself falling, falling -- and alights of the Planning Machine. Gann has no idea how he got there. When he is discovered by guards, they know no more than he, but they accuse him of being the Starchild. Gann protests he is not -- that the Starchild is only a myth in any event. But he learns that the Starchild is no myth. That has been proved once and for all. The Starchild has sent an ultimatum to Earth, calling on the Plan of Man to relinquish its total control over humanity under threat of frightful reprisals... and as proof of his powers, the Starchild has threatened to extinguish the sun and a dozen near stars for a period of time. And the threat was made good. Whoever or whatever the Starchild is, he has the power to halt the mighty atomic fusion engines that fuel the stars! his personal physician, three blackrobed Mechanese acolytes with their linkboxes and tonal beads, a dozen guards. The Vice-Planner for Venus was there, an efficient little engineer whose nose and ears were out of scale, seeming to have come from some gigantic donor. So was Machine General Wheeler, fixing Boysie Gann as he entered with a steelgray stare. No one spoke. Dominating the great hall, on a huge golden chair, was the Planner himself. He was staring, lost in thought, at a great quartz table, on which stood scores of fantastic metal and crystal toys. Gann found himself standing in the center of a great tesselated floor, alone. His guards had halted behind him. He waited for the Planner to notice him. But the Planner's eyes were on his toys. He sighed and stretched out a hand to them, stacking them in military rows, as absorbedly as any five-year-old with his lead soldiers; he formed them in columns and marched them across the clean gleaming quartz. The figures were dragons. They were monsters from storybooks, and creatures too incredible ever to have been in a story. Some were mirrorbright, some black. Many were in gorgeous rainbow hues. They had no wings, nor had they legs. Their heads were the heads of monsters, some with teeth like sabers, some with curious frayed flower-petal faces, like the muzzle of a star-nosed mole. Boysie Gann had never been so close to the Planner before. He could not help being a little disappointed. The Planner was only a man! An old, fat, flabby man at that -- and, thought Gann privately, a bit of an eccentric, too. Yet the Planner was the voice of the Planning Machine itself. It was impossible for the Machine to falter in its judgments, impossible that its chosen instrument be anything less than perfect. Of course, there were the recurrent rumors about the present Planner's predecessors -- old Planner Creery, for example, who had fallen into error in attempting to allow the Reefs of Space entry into the Plan of Man under their own conditions... Swiftly Gann rejected that thought. This was no place to be thinking treason! He turned his mind to the stabbing pain that had pierced him in the anteroom, when he had found the girl he loved, Julie Martinet, changed into a priestess of the Machine, Delta Four. How had it happened? Why had it happened?... The Planner raised his great round head and stared at Boysie Gann. "You," he rasped. "Do you know what these are?" G ann swallowed and stuttered. "Y-yes, sir," he got out. "I mean, I think so. I mean, some of them look like pyropods. The creatures that prey on the life in the Reefs of Space, sir -- " But the Planner was nodding his great bloated head. "Pyropods, yes," he boomed. With a sudden motion he swept the delicately carved pieces off the quartz table, sent them crashing to the floor. "I wish l had a thousand pyropods!" he shouted. out to the Reefs to kill and destroy every living thing on them! What insanity that these reef-rats should dare talk to me of freedom!" He broke off and glared at Boysie Gann, who stood silent, unable to speak. The Planner said: "I stand for classic truth! What is it that animates the Reefs of Space, Gann? Tell me, for you have been there. It is the romantic fallacy," he roared, not waiting for an answer, "the eternal delusion that man is perfectible, that there is a spirit of goodness that can grow and mature in crass organic creatures! What insanity! And now they threaten me in my own Hall -- blot out my sun -- boast of more deadly measures still!" He pressed his plump arms against the carved golden arms of his chair, half lifted himself, leaned forward to Gann and shouted : "Who is this Starchild, Gann? Is it you?" Boysie Gann was galvanized into shocked speech. "No, sir! Not me! I've never seen him. I know nothing about him -- oh, except what I've heard here, when General Wheeler's men interrogated me. And a few rumors. But I'm not the Starchild!" are fh ose rumors. Gann? I must know!" Gann looked helplessly around the great hall. All in it were watching him, their eyes cold, their faces impassive. He was on his own; there was no help for him from anyone there. He said desperately, "Sir, I've told all I know a hundred times. I'll tell it again. I'll tell you all I know, but the truth is, sir, that I know almost nothing about the Starchild!" "The truth," boomed the Planner, "is what  say it is! Go on! Speak!" Gann obediently commenced the old story. "I was detailed, sir, to investigate certain irregularities on Polaris Station..." As he went through the long, familiar tale there was dead silence in the hall, the Planner listening impassively, leaning on one arm in his great golden chair, the others taking their cue from him. Gann's voice fell on the enormous hall like words shouted down a well. Only echoes answered him only the narrowing of an eye, the faint shift of a position showed that his hearers had understood. He finished with his arrest in the catacombs of the Machine, and stood silent. The Planner said thoughtfully, "You spoke of a sign. The sign of the Swan." "Yes, sir." Boysie Gann demonstrated as best he could the supple mo mn cf forearm and hand that he had seen in Harry Hickson and the dying Colonel Zafar. "I believe it refers to the constellation Cygnus, in which the main star, Deneb, is some sort of object of worship to what is called the Church of the Star... " T he planner turned his great head away from Gann, toward the black-robed knot of communicants of the Machine. "Deneb!" he barked. "Display it!" One of the acolytes spoke in soft, chiming tones to his linkbox. Instantly the lights in the ir great hall darkened, and on the vaulted ceiling a panorama sprang into light. The Planner craned his thick neck to stare searchingly upward. Every eye followed his. It was as though the thousand yards of earth and rock above them had rolled back. They were gazing into the depths of space on what seemed to be a clear, moonless night -- late in autumn, Gann judged by the position of the constellations; perhaps around midnight. Overhead were the great bright stars of the Summer Triangle, Altair to the south, Deneb and Vega to the north. The Milky Way banded the vault with a great irregular powder of stardust. Low on the horizon to the west red Antares glowed; to the east was Fomalhaut... Abruptly the scene began to contract. It was as though they were rushing through space, straight toward the constellation Cygnus. Fomalhaut and Antares slipped out of sight with Sagittarius and Altair's constellation, the Eagle; so did the Pole Star and Cepheus below it; all that was left was Cygnus, the constellation of the Swan, hanging over their heads like a bright canopyA voice chimed: "Constellation Cygnus. Stars: Alpha Cygrii, also known as Deneb, blue-white, first magnitude. Beta Cygni, also known as Albireo, double, components deep blue and orange. Gamma Cygni -- " The Planner's voice cut in raspingly: "Just Deneb, idiot! What about Deneb?" The voice did not miss a beat. It chimed: "Deneb, distance # light-years. Surface temperature, # degrees. Supergiant. Spectrographic composition, hydrogen, calcium -- " "Planets!" boomed the Planner irritably. "No planets known," sang the invisible voice. Gann craned his neck; it came from one of the black-robed acolytes, but with their faces shrouded in the hoods he ' could not tell which. The Planner was silent for a long time, staring upward. He said at last, "Has the Machine any evidence of physical connection between Deneb and the Starchild?" "No evidence, sir," chanted the invisible voice at once. "Exceptions as follows: Possible connection between star Deneb and reported Church of the Star. Possible connection between star Deneb and star #I Cygni in same constellation, #I Cygni being one of the stars said Starchild threatened to, and did, extinguish. Neither of these items considered significant by the Machine." The Planner grumbled. "Very well. Cancel." The display overhead winked out, the room lights sprang up. The Planner sat brooding for a moment, his eyes remote. He stared absently around the room, his gaze passing over Boysie Gann, over the spilled toys at his feet, over the faces of the guardsmen and Machine General Wheeler. His eyes came to rest on the blackrobed acolytes. Then he sighed and gestured to one of them. It was only the crook of a finger, but the figure in black at once came toward him, holding something in his hand. It was a length of golden cable extending from his linkbox. At its end was a golden eight-pronged plug. Boysie Gann's eyes went wide. If he was not insane -- and no, he was not; for already the acolyte was stepping to the Planner's side, touching his forehead, sweeping back his sparse, unruly hair, baring the glittering plate that was set into his forehead -- the Planner was about to undergo communion with the Machine! T he spectacle was fascinating -- and frightening. Heedless of the eyes on him, the Planner sat relaxed while the acolyte deftly slipped the golden plug into the receptors in the plate on his forehead. At once the Planner's expression changed. His eyes closed. The fretful, angry look disappeared. There was a second's grimace, the teeth bared in rictus, the corners of the eyes wrinkling in deep furrows, the jaw set. It was like a momentary pang of agony... Or ecstasy. It passed, and the Planner's face went blank again. His breathing began to grow more rapid. As the planted electrodes excited the secret centers of his brain, he began to show feeling. His face creased in a smile, then frowned, then smiled again, forgivingly. His lips began to move. Hoarse, inarticulate words whispered -- slowly -- then faster, faster. His plump body shook, his fingers worked. The blackrobed acolyte calmly touched his arm, whispered in his ear. The Planner calmed. His body relaxed again. His whispered voice stopped. The acolyte waited for a second, nodded, removed the cable and stepped lightly away. The Planner opened his eyes and looked around. To Boysie Gann, the change in the Planner was stranger than anything he had seen on the Reefs of Space. A glum, angry, harried man had accepted that moment of communication with the electronic joys of the Machine; a cheerful, energetic, buoyant one had emerged from it. The Planner opened his mouth and boomed laughter into the great hall. "Ha!" he shouted. "Ho! That's good!" He sat up and pounded his great fist onto the quartz table. "We'll destroy them!" he cried. "Reef-rats and Starchild -- anyone who dares interfere with the Plan of Man. Well crush them and their fanciful dreams forever. And you'll help in this, Boysie Gann, for you are the chosen instrument of the Plan in this great work!" For a lunatic moment Gann thought of turning, running, fleeing -- of leaping toward the Planner and letting the decapitation charge in his security collar end his problems forever. There was something wild and fearful in the great chuckling good humor with which the Planner bubbled now, something that terrified Gann. If the Machine could cause such personality change in its most favored of servants, Gann feared the Machine. Feared it! And that thought was in itself fearsome to IF him, for the Machine had always been the great good master whose judgments were infallible, who always rewarded good service, punished only the bad. Yet this particular reward seemed a very terrible punishment to Gann... But all he said was, "Yes, sir. I serve the Plan, sir!" The Planner shouted with glee. "Serve it well, boy!" he cried. "Serve it with all your heart and mind -- or you'll serve it with your eyes and arms and liver, in the Body Bank! We all serve the Plan, boy. In one way or another!" And he dismissed Gann with a good-humored wave of one fat arm, and turned to General Wheeler. As the guards closed in on Gann and marched him out of the room he caught one glimpse of the general, staring toward him. The steel-gray eyes were cold and empty, but Gann could read their message. Don't fail me, either , Gann , they said. IX T here had once been a time, thought Boysie Gann, when life was simple and his duty clear. In that dead, half-forgotten time -- was it only months ago? It seemed like centuries -- and he had found, and loved, and won a girl named Julie Martinet. He remembered the flight they met, remembered their long hours together, their endless promises, the bright hope of happiness they gave each other. He remembered the long white beach at Uhe Togetherness center at Plays Blanca, and her kiss before he left. Warms sweet, soft, loving, she had been everything a man could want. Her memory had followed Boysie the sun, and her absence had made that long voyage bleak. Yet never had he been so far from her as in this room. He could, if he dared, reach out and touch the lips he had kissed at PI ay a Blanca. But the mind behind them was no longer the mindof the sweet, warm girl he had loved. The body was the body of Julie Martinet, but what inhabited it was Sister Delta Four. Involuntarily he whispered: "Julie! Julie Martinet..." She stood motionless, regarding him with grave dark eyes. He searched them for some hint of recognition, for the saving warmth of love that had filled them at Playa Blanca, but nothing was there. She shook her hooded head. "I am Delta Four," she said, her voice a melodious chime. "I am to interrogate you for the Machine." She stood watching him, waiting for a response, her pale face half hidden by the deep folds of the cowl she wore. The luminous emblem on her black robes mocked him. It was a Keep Off sign that foe dared not ignore. But he could not help saying, "Julie, don't you remember me at all? Can't you tell me what happened?" She fingered her long string of bright black beads, each an electronic bell that rang when she stroked it. "Major Gann," she sang, her ur voice in perfect pitch with the tonal beads, "I am, as you see, an acolyte of the Machine. I do not wish to be reminded of any other life." "Please, Julie. At least tell me why you didn't wait -- " Her grave head nodded. "We have time," she trilled. "Ask your question." "Why didn't you -- I mean, why didn't Julie Martinet wait for me? I sent you a letter from Pluto -- " "Your message was delivered," she sang. "But Julie Martinet had already been admitted to training as acolyte for the Machine. She destroyed your message. She does not wish to recall it." "But I loved you!" Gann burst out. "How could you turn your back on me?" The serene pale face stared at him without curiosity. "Julie Martinet loved you," she corrected him melodiously. "I am Delta Four. Please sit down, Major Gann. I must interrogate you for the Machine." Reluctantly Gann sank into a chair, watched as she moved another chair near his. She seated herself with deliberate grace. From under the cape she brought forth a small linkbox, covered in a black plastic, like leather. "Major Gann," she said, "I must ask you if you are the Starchild." Her voice was pure melody, cold and perfect and remote as her white, oval face. Gann snapped: "Plan take it, no! I'm fed up with that question! I've said it a hundred -- " But she was shaking her head. "Wait," she broke in. "One moment, please." H e watched her glumly, the ache of his bruises combining with the deeper ache in his heart as, hooded head intently bent, she once again touched the long string of beads. As each electronic chime rang out her throat echoed the tone, practising the difficult scale of tone phonemes that made up the artificial language called Mechanese. Mechanese was the difficult bridge between the Machine and the human mind. Earlier computers had crossed that bridge by building their own structure of translation, transforming English into Fortran or another artificial tongue, Fortran into binary numbers, the binary statement into instructions and data for processing. The Machine's language was itself a sort of pattern of binary digits that represented its own electronic processes -- circuits open or closed, storage points charged or discharged, ferrite cores in one magnetic state or another. Human beings could not be trained to speak that binary language, nor could the Machine of the Plan of Man be troubled with the dull task of translation. Instead it had created a language that men could learn -- with difficulty, with a consecration of purpose that required them to give up the coarser human aspects of their lives, but all ihe same with accuracy and assurance. Mechanese was a bridge, but a difficult one. The Machine, counting time in nanoseconds, could not wait for laggard human speech. Accurate in every either-or response, it had no need of redundancy. It IF i SSk  had computed the theoretical capacity of the human ear and the human voice at some # binary units of information per second, and it had deviseci a tongue to approach that theoretical maximum. Normal human speech conveyed only about # such bits of information in a second; Mechanese was a thousand times more efficient. And, Gann knew, it was about a thousand times as difficult to learn. Bitterly he realized that it was the very thing in Julie Martinet that first drew his attention to her -- her soft, true voice -- that had lost her for him forever. The Machine sought endlessly for humans who could be trained to Mechanese -- sought them and, when it found them, did not let them go. Only such special individuals could be trained to speak Mechanese well, though it was possible for almost anyone who invested the time and effort to learn a sort of pidgin, or to understand it. A true acolyte needed not only a wide vocal range but a true sense of absolute pitch. The tonal beads would help. An acolyte could, as Delta Four was doing now, use them as a sort of pitch-pipe before talking to the Machine. But not even they would convert an ordinary human into one fluent in Mechanese. Watching her tolling the tonal beads, Gann pictured the long, arduous weeks of training. He knew it required total concentration, absolute devotion. And its ultimate reward was the bright metal plate in her forehead. Her quick voice trilled a chain ot silver bird-notes. The linkbox sang an electronic answer. Her alert, emotionless eyes looked up at him at last. "We're ready now," she said. "Major Gann. Are you the Starchild?" A hundred interrogations, and this was the hundred and first. Boysie Gann no longer needed his mind to answer the girl's questions. Repetition had taught his tongue and lips to answer by themselves. I am not the Starchild. I have never seen the Starchild. I know nothing of the Writ of Liberation. I have never engaged in unplanned activities. And all the time his heart was shouting: Julie! Come back... Each time he answered a quesn. Sister Delta Four sang into the linkbox. The strange, quavering notes sounded nothing like what he had said, but he knew that each difficult phoneme was also a meaningful morpheme, each sung syllable a clause. And each time she asked a question she paused, regarding him with detached interest, her perfect face as inhuman as her voice. "My tour of hazardous duty took me out to the Spacewall..." he said, and went on with the long familiar tale. He felt the bright gold walls pressing in on him, suddenly suffocating. He wondered how many thousand feet of rock lay above him. Up at the surface of the earth, was the endangered sun shining now on IF woods and fields tinted faintly green with early spring? Or was there arctic ice above this isolated, sounddeadened cell in the Planner's vast suites? Or miles, perhaps, of dark and icy ocean? He had no way of knowing. And abruptly he felt a wave of desperate longing for the Reefs, for Freehaven, for Quarla Snow. Those strange spaceborne rocks were somehow kinder than the Plan of Man. He was homesick for infinite space... for that fantastic concept, freedom... The stem snarl of the linkbox brought him back to his interrogation. "Proceed," cooed Sister Delta Four. "You were attacked by pyropods?" Her voice was tuneful as a crystal bell, cold and empty as the black space between the Reefs. There was no flicker of feeling on the serene and secret oval of her face. He nodded wearily -- then, remembering: "Yes, but before that, I forgot to mention one thing. Hickson removed my collar." widen. She merely sang into the linkbox, still watching him, her eyes intent byt somehow blind, as though she were already absorbed in her private ecstasy of communion. The black box snarled. "The Machine requires elucidation," Sister Delta Four trilled sweetly. "We must find this unregimented Harry Hickson. His knowledge must be recovered for the Plan. Then each organ of his body must be obliterated." Gann grinned bleakly at her, looking at the lips he had kissed so long ago. "Sorry. I can't help you. He's dead." "The Machine rejects this data," she sang. "Did you not ask this unplanned man how he removed the collar?" "I don't know how," he admitted. He paused, hoping to see some living spark in her eyes. But there was none. The black box whirred ominously. "I think he was a convert to the Church of the Star," said Gann hurriedly. "I think -- that is, as I understand it, his power was thought to come from Deneb." An angry peal from the linkbox. "That is self-evidently false," sang the cool voice of Sister Delta Four. "No star possesses any such power to share. No mind in the universe is more powerful than the Machine." She paused, while the black box snarled again. "If the falsehood is Harry Hickson's, the truth will be extracted when he is captured," she translated sweetly. "If the falsehood is yours, Major Gann, you are in grave danger of the Body Bank." He cried: "I'm telling the truth! I'm loyal to the Plan of Man!" The box sang; the girl intoned, "The Machine rejects such merely verbal assurances. One moment. The Machine is receiving additional data through another input." Q ueerly, the girl's voice was fading. Gann blinked at her. She seemed to be moving -- dwindling -- as though she were falling away from him, down through the long dark emptiness of space. It was as though Gann were looking at her through a zoom lens, pulling away. She receded a thousand yards -- Then she was back. Gann felt a moment's vertigo, as though the Planner's suite down in the bowels of the earth were somehow dancing a slow waltz. The feeling passed. The linkbox whirred menacingly, and Sister Delta Four sang, "The Machine terminates this interview." A sharp hum from the linkbox. "It reminds you that unplanned ideas, like unplanned words and unplanned actions, must be severely corrected. But it reserves judgment on your ultimate disposition." Her white, perfect face was smiling slightly, perhaps in contemplation of her instant rapture that was soon to come, when the buried electrodes would excite her brain to the incomparable bliss of electronic communion. But the linkbox was not yet through with her. It buzzed again, harshly. "The Machine finds your narrative incomplete," she recited melodiously, contemplating Gann with her dark, serene eyes. "You have not identified the Starchild. You have revealed no facts about the Togethership. You have not accounted for the so-called Writ of Liberation. You have not explained how you got into the vault of the Machine." Gann shook his head. "I don't know what to tell you," he said. The box whirred implacably. "Your statements are inadequate," Sister Delta Four sang again. "But the interview is concluded -- " There was that surge of unreal motion again. Gann gripped his chair. This time even the girl felt it; her perfect lips opened, her eyes shook a flicker of surprise. The linkbox twittered urgently. At the same moment loud bells and sirens began to sound elsewhere in the Planner's warrens. "Earth temblors," the girl began haltingly, "have been detected at several points -- " Then the linkbox crashed out a loud, despairing sound. Sister Delta Four gasped. Instinctively she reached out and caught Boysie Gann's arm. "Pyropods!" she cried. "The -- The -- Oh, you've got to help! The Planner's hall has been invaded by pyropods! Hundreds of them! They're there now!" T he private room in which Sister Delta Four had been interrogating Boysie Gann was one tiny office in the immense network of corridors and chambers that was the administrative and living headquarters of the Planner. It had been locked, but the door opened instantly to the pattern of the girl's fingertips on the knob. It flung wide, and Gann and the girl ran through the open doorway, into a wide, goldwalled hall. Broad as a highway, tall as a two-story building, it ran straight through the heart of a mountain, the Planner's rooms opening off it at intervals all the way. It was a great ceremonial thoroughfare, lined with glittering gold and crystal statuary, hung in gold brocades, paneled with murals and viewscreens. IF And it was filled with the reeking, choking, dusty smoke of jet exhausts. A scream of some huge rocketing body ripping through the air smote their ears. A human shout of anguish -- the cries of men taken by surprise -- the thin, ear-splitting volley of laser guns. In all the noise and confusion Gann saw one thing clearly -- saw it, grabbed the girl by her arm and pulled her back into the shelter of the doorway. A pyropod was rocketing toward them down the hall. It roared at them at a speed nearing Mach One; in the cramped quarters of the hall the shriek of its passage was physically painful, deafening. And the look of the thing was that of an avenging angel come to Earth, set on destruction. It was a nightmare come to life. Wilder than the most fantastic of the Planner's toys, it was shaped a little like a scorpion, larger than a charging buffalo. Its eyes were great mirrors with stalked receptors at the center -- natural radio telescopes, glowing red. Its jaws were mighty enough to crunch steel bars. Its talons could rip through armor plate. Its body was armored with darkly shining scales; a long wicked saber-like tail was arched over its back. And the whole thing was screaming through the air of the tunnel toward them. The girl cried out in fear; Gann pulled her head against his chest, quieting her -- though in truth the sound of her terror was lost in the earsplitting din of the pyropod's passage. This was no baby, like the one Gann had played with on Harry Hickson's reef. It was an armored juggernaut, full grown, capable ot battling a Plan space cruiser on equal terms. It passed them and rocketed into a group of armed guardsmen, knotted a hundred yards down the hall. They were firing wildly with laser and projectile weapons; it struck them, passed... and they were gone. Only a jackstraw heap of corpses and stirring near-dead marked where they had been. "Great Machine!" gasped Sister Delta Four, her impeccable serenity gone, her black hood thrown back, the bright metal plaque blinking out of a terrified face; "What was that?" "You told me," snapped Gann. "Pyropod! If it comes back, we're dead!" She whimpered and tugged at his arm. "Back in here -- we can hide " "No! There are others. If one finds us this way we don't have a chance. But if I can get a gun -- w He stared down the broad, long hall. The bright jet of the pyropod's tail was out of sight. Perhaps the monster had gone into another room, or down another hallway. Meanwhile the guardsmen were still in a heap of death. He came to a fast decision. "Julie -- I mean -- oh, never mind that Listen! These things can be killed if you know where to aim. I'm going after a gun. You stay in the room!" And he was off, running as hard as he could, straight down the broad hall toward the dying men. He fought the temptation to skulk along the sides. There was no concealment here. If the creature came back, he would be dead; it was that simple. His only chance was speed. He did that hundred yards in Olympic time -- And it was nearly too slow, at that. Gasping, wheezing, his chest and muscles on fire, he heard a sudden growing volume of sound and looked up. A howl of sound was coming toward him, and behind it, almost as fast as the sound itself, a pyropod was rocketing at him. He flung himself to the floor. The thing missed him by inches; he caught a quick glimpse of metal jaws and crystal tusks, of enormous talons reaching out for him; then it was past, and he was up and running He heard the thing crashing, smashing, battering into the statuary and the walls of the hall, stopping itself at heedless cost, but he did not turn. He leaped to the fallen guardsmen, caught up a laser gun, checked its charge and whirled. The pyropod had completed its turn. It caught Gann in its pulsing red headlamps. It was screaming at him,s a living battle-rocket. He fired one maximum-blast shot into its eye, and tumbled to the ground again. It screamed in agony as it passed over him. It blundered blindly into a wall, sideswiped a cluster of statuary, gouged out a bright streak in the hard metal of the corridor. Its jet flamed brightly and faded. Gann fired one more shot, then covered his head with his hands. IF There was a great distant explosion. He felt the shock wave pass over him. Some of the corpses near him were stirred by the thrust of it, their bleeding limbs flopping wildly, their unseeing faces nodding. The pyropod was gone. But Sister Delta Four had said "dozens" of them... Quickly Gann stooped to the abbatoir the pyropod had left and rummaged for weapons. He discovered a half-empty laser weapon, pocketed a light projectile gun, loaded up with the three heaviest-charge laser guns he could find. Then he turned to go after Sister Delta Four. She was standing just behind him. She had seen what he was doing, and she had done the same. She held two weapons, and in a pouch in her robes Gann could see the glitter of at least one more. He hesitated, then grinned. "Come on," he cried. "Let's see what we can do! Right in the eyes, remember!" He clapped her on the shoulder, and turned and ran in the direction of the Great Hall of the Planner. A hellish howling and roaring led him to it. He needed no other signs. Before he got there, he destroyed two more pyropods, neither quite as big as the one that had nearly got them in the hall, and Sister Delta Four had frightened another off with a long-range shot that might #I might not have hit. The Great Hall of the Planner was the mother-hive. It was filled with the great creatures, ripping through the smoky, sulfurous air, ripping out boulder-sized bits from the walls, from the huge golden chair of the Planner, from anything that would give them reaction mass. They seemed to have conquered the human defenders of the Hall wnh no trouble, and were fighting among themselves over the spoils. Then Gann caught the slim ruby flash of a laser weapon. One of the pyropods bellowed with pain, like an air-raid siren gone mad. It was not a mortal wound, but it must have been an agonizing one; the injured creature hurtled through the air and collided with another feasting beast; the two began to slash each other. Someone was still alive in the room! Warning the girl to remain behind, Gann peered cautiously around the door. The laser flash had seemed to come from one of the decorative niches holding statuary, under a painted lunette. Gann took a deep breath and shouted, then ducked back around the door. But it was useless. In the monstrous racket of the snarling, fighting pyropods his voice was unheard. He caught Sister Delta Four by the shoulder, pulled her close to him so that her ear was next to his lips. "I'm .going to try to pick them off one by one!" he cried. "They're not paying any attention right now. I think I can get most of them. But if any start this way, you shoot right for the eyes!" She nodded, her face calm and untouched again, the great service lasers incongruous in her hands. He gave her a last thoughtful glance, unable to forget the bright communion plate that was now once again hidden under the black cowl, then turned toward the Great Hall. It took him twenty minutes. He counted, and there were fifteen of the great beasts rocketing and fighting about the hall. He got seven of them, one by one, before there was any trouble. Then at Sister Delta Four's warning touch, he had to turn and destroy a lone wanderer, racing toward them down the hall. Then he got three more, and then he noticed that one screamed, burst and died at the far side of the hall that he had not fired on. Whoever was hiding in the niche across the hall had seen what he was doing, and had copied him. '"T'fiere were two guns firing then JL -- no, three; for Sister Delta Four stepped out beside him and helped gun down the last survivors, confused and blundering, as the walls shook with the creatures' screams and the air grew acrid and sickening with their fumes. And then they were all gone. Hesitantly Gann entered the hall, laser guns ready, eyes darting about as he picked his way across the destroyed battleground. There were distant bellowings still. Obviously there were still a few strays, elsewhere in the underground palace of the Planner; but most of them were dead in this room. He hurried toward his unknown ally. IF Machine General Abel Wheeler stepped stiffly out of the niche and moved toward him. There was a hard grin of victory on his face. He holstered one gun and thrust out a hand with a motion like a piston to grasp Gann's extended clasp. "Well done, Major," he rasped. "Thank you, sir. I had helped. This is -- " The general's expression did not change. "I know Sister Delta Four," he boomed. "You may tell the Machine that I commend you, Sister. Please contact the Machine now and ascertain its condition. I fear this attack may have been intended to harm it!" He grasped Gann's arm in a grip of steel and led him away. "Ugly creatures," he rasped, kicking at one enormous ripped cadaver. "Poetic justice, you might say. The Planner has always been fascinated by them. Interesting coincidence that they've appeared out of nowhere, here in his own home grounds." He glanced over his shoulder at Sister Delta Four, who was quickly chiming her tonal beads, setting up her linkbox. "See here, Gann. Look at this." On the floor in front of the niche where General Wheeler had taken refuge there was a square of thick, creamy paper. "What is it. sir?" "Pick it up, man! See for yourself!" There were human voices now, coming from the hall. The mighty forces of the Plan of Man were regathering themselves. Order was being restored. Boysie Gann hesitated. Something was wrong. "The Planner?" he asked. "Is he -- " He looked around the great hall, littered with corpses of the invading pyropods and the human guards who had been trapped there. "Not he, Major! Gone this half hour. Read that document!" Gann, with a feeling that something was awry, leaned forward and retrieved the paper. He glanced at it. Then his doubts and uncertainties dropped out of his mind. This paper was strangely familiar. He had seen one just like it -- twenty billion miles away -- in the hands of the dying Machine Colonel Zafar. That had been the document they called the Writ of Liberation! A nd this one was something almost as earthshaking in its importance, almost as dangerous to the Plan of Man. Boysie Gann read swiftly, looked up at the silent carved face of General Wheeler wonderingly, then returned to the paper. It was headed, To the Planner, and it said: To the Planner, or to whoever succeeds him if he is now dead. You and those who serve with you ignored my warning and discounted the dimming of the Sun. I send you now a pack of beasts to show that my powers can do more than frighten. They will destroy much. They may yet destroy more. If I send them again, it will not be to the headquarters of the Planner -- if anything remains of that to be destroyed. The next demonstration will occur in the vaults of the Planning Machine. Gann looked up, his lips taut, his eyes narrowed. "The Planning Machine !" he said. "General, we must tell Sister Delta Four at once! This must be conveyed to the Machine immediately." The general rasped: "That decision will be made by me, Major. What have you to say for yourself?" Startled, Gann said, "Why -- I don't know what you mean, General. I didn't have anything to do with -- " Then he saw that the general was no longer standing with his arms at his side. One hand held a laser gun again, and it was pointing at him. "You're under arrest," clipped General Wheeler metallically. "Do not attempt to draw those weapons. Do not speak or move." Gann opened his mouth, then closed it again. This was the overwhelming, culminating insanity of a fantastic experience. Himself under arrest! But for what? He dared not even ask. The general's iron expression showed that he meant his orders to be obeyed. Behind him, Boysie Gann heard the movements of the guards, coming near -- and past them, a distant booming. He recognized that sound. Another stray pyropod! He forgot his orders and cried: "General! There's another one -- " General Wheeler rapped: "Be silent! I will not speak again! The men will take care of your beast!" His voice was queerly loud, Gann thought even in his confusion -- almost as though the general were speaking not to him, but to the roomful of witnesses. But he could not help himself. He knew what one single pyropod could do, knew that even the Planner's guards might not be able to cope with it -- and knew that in that room was the body and heart of the girl he loved, even though they might be inhabited by the cold, machinelike mind of Sister Delta Four. He whirled, drew his laser gun and was ready as the roar of the pyropod shrieked to the door of the room and the creature appeared. Gann fired at the red eyes. The guards were ready too, alerted by the sound and by Gann's quick action; they had turned and were firing. The creature was caught in a dozen bolts of destroying energy. It puffed into flame and exploded... And between Gann and the door, Sister Delta Four, whispering into her linkbox, fell silently forward. She dropped to the floor and did not move, though the linkbox hooted questioningly to her. "She's hit!" cried Gann, and dropped his weapons, racing to her. He caught her up in his arms, and stared into her black eyes. His hands were covered with blood. Along one side of her black robes a spreading patch of sticky moisture began to seep, clouding IF the bright electronic symbols, trickling to the floor. There was no heartbeat. He raised his eyes, stared vacantly at the approaching General Wheeler. "Is she dead?" he demanded, unable to take it in. "Was it my shot? Or -- " He paused, trying to remember. Had there been another pencil-thin lance of laser light coming from his side of the room? Had General Wheeler fired over his shoulder and shot Sister Delta Four? But there was no time to think of that. The general was on him now, his face a metallic mask of sternness. "Disarm that man!" he rasped to the guards. "Take him before the Planner! I accuse him of bringing this document here! I accuse him of admitting the beasts we have destroyed. I accuse him ot slaying Sister Delta Four to keep her from denouncing him. I accuse him of being the Starchild!" X T he battered veterans of the skirmish with the pyropods, limping out of the battlefield and taking the swift elevators to the surface, found the Planner standing like a jovial Santa Claus on a quartzwalled balcony, near the snowy summit of the mountain in which his headquarters was buried. This was his eyrie, the great crow's-nest of his palace. He chuckled to General Wheeler: "They tried to get me and missed! They'll not have another chance! We'll wipe out every last lone rebel." The general rasped: "Sir, here is your first traitor! This is the man who is responsible. I found him bearing this document." Gann cried: "Planner, the general is lying! He knows I didn't -- " "Silence!" snapped the general. The Planner did not even look at Gann. Smiling and nodding, he read the square of paper, then dropped it negligently to the floor. "You're sure he's the Starchild, General?" he asked. "Consider the evidence, sir!" rapped the general. "One. He appeared originally in the vaults of the Machine, with no explanation of how he got there. Two. At the same time, the Writ of Liberation appeared, also unexplained. Three. He was bearing this document when I apprehended him. Four. He displayed a suspicious knowledge of the vulnerable spots on the pyropods when his own life was in danger. Five. He purposely slew Sister Delta Four, making it look like an accident, so that she could not speak against him. Six. He was about to do the same to me when I ordered the guards to disarm him. The conclusion, sir, is overwhelmingly indicated that Machine Major Boysie Gann is indeed the Starchild." "But sir -- " cried Gann. The Planner gestured, and one of the guards wrenched his arm, forcing him to be quiet. "That's better," chuckled the old Planner, beaming down on Boysie Gann. His dose of communion had clearly lasted him a long time; he was as bubbling with good humor as though the Machine even now lit were shooting pleasure sensations into his brain. "Yet," said the Planner, smiling good-humoredly at General Wheeler, "one of the guards reported that it was you, not Gann, who killed the sister. Could you have been mistaken?" "No, sir! Impossible, sir. I had no reason." T he Planner nodded cheerfully and scratched his plump old cheek. He got to his feet and went to the quartz wall of his eyrie, squinting out into the sunset sky. To windward of the summit, the descending sun picked out a towering crown of cumulus. Beyond the crystal parapet, its last rays shimmered on a small waterfall and tinted the falling slopes of evergreens. "As a matter of fact," the Planner added over his shoulder, "Sister Delta Four is not dead." He stared smiling down the slopes, toward a brown-smogged city below. "She is now in surgery. Her heart was destroyed, but circulation was restored before the brain was damaged. Even now a donor is being provided to replace her lost parts." Bovsie Gann cried joyfully: "Plan be thanked! Sir, she'll tell you that I knew nothing of the pyropods until she herself told me about them!" "Silence!" rasped General Wheeler. "Guards! Your orders are to keep him quiet. I understand donors are needed for several of your wounded comrades. The first man who fails to keep the prisoner silent will be considered a volunteer "Not so fast," chuckled the Planner. "Your zeal goes too far. General." His heavy-lidded eyes looked dark and old as the lichencrusted stone below the crystal wall, as he gazed benignly toward the far city in the smog. "Let us Plan," he said, turning and smiling. "Let us decide what to do." The Vice-Planner for Venus spoke up promptly: "Double the guards in the vaults of the Machine, sir. Institute maximum security measures, admitting nounauthorized person -- " He broke off and scratched his enormous nose in puzzlement, as he realized that neither Boysie Gann nor the pyropods had submitted to security check before entering the most heavily guarded places in the Plan of Man. A male acolyte in the black robes of the Machine, listening to a subdued buzzing from his linkbox, raised his voice suddenly. "The Machine requires the services of the prisoner," he chanted. "The Machine instructs Machine General Wheeler that the prisoner is not to be harmed in any way which will affect his memory or his intellect." Wheeler's expression was that of a steel-gray thundercloud. The Planner turned toward him, chuckling. "You have your orders, General," he said good-humoredly. "Be sure they are carried out. Do you know what those orders are, young man?" he added, turning with a bland expression of cheer to Boysie Gann. "No, sir. But I stand ready to serve the Plan of Man!" "Oh, you do indeed," nodded IF the Planner. "In a very special way, as it happens. Major, you have been selected to replace Sister Delta Four. The Machine is about to permit you to receive training in its special service as an acolyte -- and then communion!" T he heavy iron security collar was not enough for so precious an enemy of the Plan as Boysie Gann. "You're not just a Risk," one of the guards explained solicitously. "See, we can't take a chance, Major. We don't want to blow your little head off. We don't want to kill you. We want to deliver you in one piece, right? So just stand still there, while we put these cuffs on you... and we'll take you to the training base... and then, when the Machine's all finished with you, then we'll blow your head off!" And the guard snapped the fetters cruelly tight on Gann's wrists and started him moving with a shove. They took him to a subtrainstation first, and would not answer his questions. Was Julie Martinet all right? Why had General Wheeler lied? What was the Machine going to do with him? To each question there was only one response: "Shut up, you! Move on!" But then there was nowhere to move. They were in the subtrain station, the great cold vaulted shed where the enormous electron-flow driven globes waited to carry their passengers through tunnels in the earth, across a continent or under a sea. But no globe was moving. They brought Gann to a platform, ten security guards forming the detail that surrounded him, and then they waited. Boysie Gann could see that the station was a military base, because of the armored guard-boxes beside the troughs, and because of the black Technicorps uniforms on everyone. That was understandable enough; this was the depot that served the Planner himself, the one nearest his tunneledout mountain retreat But what was not understandable was that there were neither arrivals nor departures. Behind him, a track lock closed with a wheeze of leaking air. A Togetherness girl froze her automatic smile as she caught sight of his colllar, and hurried past. The guards in their radar horns gazed vacantly after her. "Look," said Boysie Gann, "what's the matter? What are we waiting for?" "Shut up, you," growled a machine-sergeant of the guards. But he had a worried look. One of his men said something to him; the sergeant replied in an undertone. All Gann could catch was: " -- trouble in the tunnels somewhere. Now shut up. When they're ready for us, we'll know." The great forty-foot bubbles waited silently in their passage cradles, and Boysie Gann stood reganding them. Wherever he was going, it was probably somewhere far away. Short-haul trips were seldom by way of the subtrains. The great atomic driHs of the Plan had tunneled straight-line passages from all major centers to all others, sometimes relayed, sometimes piercing nearly through the nickel-iron core of the Earth itself in a single non-stop thrust from Sidney, say, to Calcutta. The great freight and passenger globes reached speeds so great that Coriolis force was their principal adversary; the electrostatic hoops that banded the evacuated tunnels were double and triple strength on the side against which the earth's potation tended to throw the spheres. Via the subtrains, no point on Earth was more than a few hours away from any other... Boysie Gann became aware of a confused mutter of excitement, and focused his eyes on what was going on in the subtrain shed. A great dull freightsphere was sliding gently into the station, emerging from the mouth of a beltringed tunnel. "About time they got 'em going again," grumbled the machine sergeant. "All right, let's move out They'll be letting us board now." T he sergeant was right. Within ten minutes they were in a subtrain globe, settling down in a passenger compartment. But there was a wait of nearly a quarter of an hour more before Boysie Gann felt the gentle lurch that meant they had begun to move. His guards were more relaxed, now that they were in the subtrain. Gann could not very well escape them now, not when there was nowhere to go but the interior of a forty-foot sphere, with nothing outside but great electrostatic hoops in an airless tunnel, whizzing by at speeds of thousands of miles an hour. A couple of the guards disappeared, came back with self-satisfied smiles and relieved the others. Clearly there was a Togetherness canteen on the globe. Even the radar-horned sergeant looked somehow less inimical, more like a human being. Above all things, Gann wished he knew what had happened to Sister Delta Four. There had been a moment there, while the pyropods were attacking, when she had seemed less like a cold-hearted servant of the Machine and more like the girl he had kissed at Playa Blanca. He dreamed of getting her back -- of somehow winning favor with the Machine and receiving the great reward of Julie Martinet's release -- It was only a dream. Considering his position now, it was an insane one. Gann realized that he should be devoting every second's thought he could to planning -- to trying to understand what had put him in this position, and what he could do. But it seemed quite hopeless. He had the giddy sensation that the universe had gone mad. From that first moment on Polaris Station, when he had followed Machine Colonel Zafar down to the methane snowball, events had carried him helplessly along: they made no sense to him, but there was nothing he could do to help interpret them. Their incomprehensibility was intrinsic. It was not that he was lacking in comprehension, it was that the things which had happened were not to be understood in the sane, sensible terms of life under the Plan of Man... He felt a giddy sensation again, and this time it was not in his mind. Boysie Gann leaped to his feet in alarm. He could not help thinking of the strange queasiness that drop into the Planning Machine's catacombs -- the same, sensation, just before the pyropods struck -- But this was not the same thing at all. The lurching, twisting sensation he felt was simply explained. The subtrain car had come to a stop. It was hanging now, spinning slowly, between the charged hoops of its airless tunnel. If Gann had been in any doubt, the cries from outside his room, the shouts of guards within, removed that doubt quickly. Everyone on the subtrain globe seemed to be shouting at once. "What's the matter?" "We've stopped!" "Great Plan, we're a couple of hundred miles down! The temperature -- " "Help me! Let me out of here!" The voices were a confused babble, but they all had in common the warning knife-edge of panic. There was terror on that subtrain car -- terror that could not be calmed with words, for its base was all too real. The machine sergeant comprehended the situation at once. With a jerk of his radar-horned head he bawled at his squad : "Come on, outside! Those sheep'll stampede if we don't keep 'em in line!" Boysie Gann was left alone. Outside he could hear the Technicorps guards shouting orders at the terrified travelers on the subtrain. No one seemed to know what had happened. They had stopped, that was all. Hundreds of miles below the surface of the earth, the rock outside hot enough to melt aluminum, the pressure great enough to crush diamonds into dust if the electrostatic hoops ever faltered -- they were stopped. Whatever it was that had disrupted the service before they left the station was probably disrupting it again. The only difference was that now they were where no help could ever reach them, where if the fields in the hoops failed they would be dead in the least fraction of a second -- where even if the field maintained itself they would be dead in a few days of asphyxiation, unless they could move. Then, abruptly, there was another lurch, and they were moving again. As the great forty-foot sphere gathered speed and stability, Boysie Gann became aware that he had been hardly breathmg. There was a great cry of thanksgiving from the people outside his room. One by one his guards came back, chattering and laughing, seeming almost human. They did not include him in their conversation, but they did not go out of their way to keep him out. One of them even disappeared for a few minutes, then came back with a tray of drinks from the Togetherness canteen... And then the great globe shook again. Shook -- crashed into something that shrieked of destroyed metal -- slammed to a jolting, smashing stop. Gann and the guards tumbled across the room, hurled against the wall like thrown gravel. Boysie Gann heard screams and a rending sound of the metal of the great sphere being crushed. "We've had it!" someone shrieked. "The fields have failed!" -- and as he went deep into black oblivion, not yet feeling pain but knowing that he was bleeding, he had struck the wall too hard to get up and walk away, Gann had time for one last thought: He's right, thought Gann; this is the end. -- When, some indeterminate time later, he opened his eyes and found himself still alive, he was almost disappointed. G ann was in an emergency hospital. Stiff white bandages covered part of his eyes; his head ached as though a corps of drummers were using it for practice; he could see, under the shadow of the bandages, that one arm was encased in a balloon-cast. But he was alive. A Togetherness nurse was bending over him. He said clearly, "I thought the tube collapsed." "Hush," she said gently. "It did. But you were almost at the surface, and the wrecking squads dug you out." "Almost at the surface?" He squinted past her, at the second figure standing by his bed. For one crazy instant on waking he had thought it was the Angel of Death come to take him away. Now he saw it was an acolyte of the Machine, the linkbox in her hand, IF whispering tinkling notes to the microphone it contained. "I -- I guess I'm at the training center," he said. The nurse nodded. "Sleep if you can," she ordered. And Boysie Gann was glad to comply... For three days Boysie Gann had the status of a convalescent. It was a considerable improvement over his status as a major public enemy. The immediate guard detail was withdrawn -- several had been killed in the tube implosion and were going through the messy business of resuscitation and repair at f he Body Bank. Gann was free to wander within the limited confines o! one wing of the hospital in which he was a patient. He was even allowed access to the recreation lounge, run by a young Togetherness girl who reminded him of Quarla Snow. Her disposition was like Quarla's, too. She did not seem conscious of his collar. Most important, she let him watch the news-screens to his heart's content. Boysie Gann had been away from Earth, off on the Reefs or in intensive custody for so long that he had lost touch with the running news stories. He sat and dreamed. What was happening on the screen soaked slowly into his mind and heart. He watched, and loved, the gold-haired, long-legged choruses of Togetherness girls cooing their gentle threats: "Work for the Plan! Live for the Plan! You don't want to go to Heaven and make spare parts for the Plan!" Though he knew his ob;';ces of winding up in the Body Bank called Heaven and making "spare parts for the Plan" must be rated pretty high, there was no tear in what the girls were sinking. It was a part of a life that he had lost, and he wanted it back. Above all he wanted to find himself again. Boysie Gann could not recognize himself in the enemy of the Ma chine who had been castigated by the Planner himself, denounced by Machine General Wheeler, interrogated by Sister Delta Four. Tha Boysie Gann was a creature who had been born on Polaris Station, a man who lived with undead Reef rats and queer creatures called spacelings and pyropods. Gann could not fit the strange rebellious shape of this other Boysie Gann into his personality, could not add the two identities and produce a vector sum of his future life... He sat up straight and glared at the view-screen. He had been watching a worldwide news broadcast with half his mind, hardly conscious of what he saw, although in fact what he saw was exciting enough. The news broadcast with almost a catalogue of disasters -- a crashed Plan cruiser that destroyed half a city, earthquakes in Antarctica, a runaway nuclear reactor on the Indian subcontinent. And then there had been a nearer disaster. The screen had shown the very subtrain catastrophe that had put him in this place. And called it sabotage! Gann blinked. He hardly recognized the accident. The bland fat Technicolonel puffing out his gruff charges of criminal conspiracy seemed to be talking about some other disaster, on some other world. Malicious sabotage? A bomb planted in the subtrain to discredit the Planner and the Planning Machine? Most incongruous of all -- him radar-horned guard sergeant as his accomplice? Gann put down his glass of vitamin-laced fruit juice and hobbled over to the Togetherness girl in charge of the lounge. He was shaking. "Please," he begged. "Did you see that? What is it all about?" She scolded him sunnily. "Now, now! Your duty under the Plan is to get well! You must prepare yourself to return to serve -- no questions, no worries -- nothing but healing and rest!" He said with difficulty, "It said on the newscast that I was responsible for the subtrain accident. It isn't so! And the guard sergeant who was in charge of me -- what happened to him?" Her large, clear eyes darkened for a moment in puzzlement. But only for a moment. She would not question her orders; if her orders said that she was to care for an enemy of the Plan, she would care for an enemy of the Plan. She ahook her head and, smiling, led him back to the couch. "Drink your Juice," she said with playful severity, and would say no more. To her, what the Plan of Man ordained was necessarily right and true -- because "right" and "truth" were defined by the Plan of Man. Or so thought Boysie Gann. So thought Boysie Gann, and was aware in some part of him that there was something in that thought which was dangerous -- dangerous to him and to all mankind, for if the sweet and empty-headed Togetherness girl accepted the Plan so unquestioningly... He could not put the thought together. It almost seemed as though he himself, and General Wheeler, and even the Planner -- as if all the human race within the Plan were in some sense no less empty-headed than a Togetherness girl. But he could not complete the thought. And then time ran out and he no longer had leisure for such thoughts, for he began the course of training that would lead him to communion with the Machine. D yadic relation: I hate spinach. Ternary relation:  hate spinach except when it is well washed. Quaternary relation: I hate spinach except when it is well washed because the sand gets in my teeth. With instructor and book, with constant subliminal tapes droning while he slept and teaching machines snapping at him awake, Boysie Gann began to learn the calculus of statement, the logic of relations, the geometries of Hilbert and Ackermann and Boole. Conjunctions and disjunctions, axioms and theorems, double negations and metastatements... they all surged through his brain, nesting with destructive dilemmas and syllogisms in the mood of Barbara. He leaned to transpose and commute. He IF learned the principle of exportation and the use of dots as brackets. He learned the unambiguous phrasing and inflectionless grammar of machine programming; he learned the distinction between perceptual symbols and motor symbols, and learned to make the auditory symbols that bridged the gap. For hours with an oscillator squeal beeping in his ear to guide him, he sang endless quarter-tone scales. He studied the factorization problems of the General Problem Solver and learned to quantify relationships. He learned the construction of truth tables, and how to use them to track down tautologies in a premise. There were neither classes nor schoolrooms, there was only study and work. It went on and on, endlessly. Gann woke to the drone of the tape-recorded voice under his pillow, ate with the chime of sonic bells in his ear, fell exhausted into his bed with schematics of sharedtime computer inputs racing through his mind. There was a world outside the training center, but he had lost touch with it completely. In stolen moments he caught snatches of conversation between his few human contacts -- the Togetherness girls who served him at table, the guards who roamed the halls -- that his mind was too hard-pressed to fit together. The Starchild. The Writ of Liberation. Disasters under the earth, rocket explosions in space. They did not matter; what mattered was null hypotheses and probabilistic calculus. If he had time enough, and thought enough, to probe beTh Hahkz ! yond the demands of the training, his mind always reached one step ahead -- to the moment when training was over and he would receive the metal badge of communion in his flesh -- and it recoiled, and returned to Hilbert and Boole. When the course was over, Gann did not realize it. He went to sleep -- exhausted, as he was always exhausted in this place. He tumbled into the narrow, hard bed in the solitary, tilewalled room. The voice under his pillow promptly began to recite to him: " -- generate a matrix K, ultilizing the mechanisms of associative retrieval to add contextual relationships to coordinate retrieval. Let the i-th row and th column show the degree of association -- " Some part of him was taking it in, he knew, but his conscious mind was hardly aware of it. All he was aware of was his own inadequacy. He would never match the pure, crystalline tones of Sister Delta Four and the other acolyte; he did not have the voice for it. He would never grasp and retain all the information theory and programming he had been taught; he did not have the training for it... He drifted off to sleep. He was barely aware that something was wrong -- some new scent in the atmosphere, some hardly perceived whisper of motion, as though someone were waiting outside his room for him to be asleep. Then the anesthetic gas that had been piped through his pillow took effect. He slept. Deeply. When he woke he felt a minor but nagging ache in the skin and the bone of his forehead. He was in another room -- green-walled, surgical. He did not have to touch his forehead to know that while he slept the surgeons had been at work, the hair-thin electrodes slipped into the micrometrically located centers of his brain, the bright badge of communion implanted on his brow. I n the mammalian brain exist bundles of nerves and specialized tissue which control mood and emotion, as well as those which control motor activities, homeostatic regulation, conscious thought and the various other activities of that threepound mass of hypertrophied tissue. One such area is the pleasure center. Slip a fine platinum electric into it by stereotaxic surgery. Feed tiny surge of electricity. The result is ecstasy! Fit a laboratory animal with such an electrode and with a key it can operate, and it will go on pressing the key, pressing the key, pressing the key... it will not pause for food or drink or fear... it will sear itself with delight until it collapses of exahustion, and wake only to press the key once more. The jolt of ecstasy that tore through Boysie Gann's being in that first moment of awakening with the communion plate in his forehead and the electrodes embedded in his brain was like nothing he had ever imagined. It was taste, feeling, odor and light; it was the wild delight IF of sex and the terrifying joy of daredevil sport; it was all the things he had ever known at once, magnified unbearably. Time stopped. He was adrift in a turbulent sea of sensation... Eons and lifetimes later, he became conscious of humanity again. He was back in his body. The tides of quintessential pleasure had receded from around him, and left him aching and dry. He opened his eyes, and saw a Technicorps medical orderly retreating from him, the communion probe wires in his hand. He had been cut off from the joy of the Planning Machine. Gann took a long shuddering breath and reconciled himself to being human again. He could understand Sister Delta Four. He could accept his destiny in communion with the Machine. No other reward could be half as great as this, no other purpose as important -- Dazedly he became aware that something was wrong. The Technicorps man's face was pale with fear. Voices shouted from outside, and one of them was queerly familiar. Gann struggled to his feet, apprehensive and wary. When the door burst open it was Machine General Wheeler who came into the room like a raging typhoon. "Gann!" he roared. "Starchild! You devil, what have you done?" "I? Done? Nothing, General -- and I'm not the Starchild, I swear it!" "Filth!" howled the general. "Don't lie to me! What have you done to the Planning Machine?" Gann started to reply, to defend himself. The general gave him no chance. "Lies!" he raged. "Starchild, you've destroyed us all! Admit it! Admit that it was you who has driven the Planning Machine hopelessly madl" On your newsstand now -- Brian W. Aldiss Miriam Allen deFord Julian F. Grow Keith Laumer Fritz Leiber C. C. MacApp Cordwainer Smith Robert F. Young Get your copy today if you want to keep your copy of Galaxy intact for permanent possession! Why mutilate a good thing? But, by the same token... if you're devotee enough to want to keep your copies in mint condition, you ought to subscribe. You really ought to. For one thing, you get your copies earlier. For another, you're sure you'll get them! Sometimes newsstands run outthe mail never does. (And you can just put your name and address on a plain sheet of paper and mail it to us, at the address below. We'll know what you mean... provided you enclose your check!) In the past few years Galaxy has published the finest stories by the finest writers in the field Bester, Heinlein, Pohl, Asimov, Sturgeon, Leiber and nearly everyone else. In the next few years it will go right on, with stories that are just as good... or better. Don't miss any issue of Galaxy. You can make sure you won't. Just subcrlbe today. (lf, on the other hand, your habit is to read them once and go on to something newpleasefeel free to use the coupon! It's for your convenience, not ours.)  VM  t  j Enter my subscription for the New Giant I #-page Galaxy , per # lssue , foreign postage) (U. S. Edition only) for: # Issues  # # issues  # -- # Issues  # -- Name City Address Zone State. O  Imagine! Here's what you get... the button -- you can't make mistakes! Nothing to focus! Nothing to set or adjust! No double exposures! You get crisp, sharp blackand-whites, amazingly life-like color shots -- even slides -- with no effort at all! Commander Camera Retail Value: # I Roll Kodacolor Film Retail Value: # I Roll Kodak Black-and-White Film Retail Value: .# Pre paid Processing Certificate Retail Value: # (Good for # Jumbo Color Prints and I new fresh roll of Kodacolor Film!) # limited! Clip coupon and mail today! extra charge). Total retail value: #. I pay only # plus # handling. name (please print)  Send C.O.D. I am enclosing # deposit and will pay postman #, plus # handling, plus postal charges.  I want to save postal charges. I am enclosing #, plus # for handling. not completely pleased! its vividly real telepathic sodetv, detailed so ingeniously and dramatically that, finishing the book, you'll find it hard to believe that society doesn't exist -- yet ! regular price, plus ## for postage and handling. Supplies are limited ! Send your order in immediately! (Use Coupon or Separate Sheet) Please #I Hudson St. rush me New York  copies of #, Name Address City State. The Original Edition -- Complete I Not A Low Cost Reprint -- Yet Yours For Only #I Plus Postage # # I Enclose. MARCH #  #c Concluding -- Worlds of brings you the finest in science fiction Don't delay-send in your subscription order today of IF delivered to your door, bringing you stories by  all your favorites in science fiction! His celebrated Relief stories and others appear regularly in IF -- fast-moving, comic yarns of diplomatic skullduggery out on the frontiers of the stars! still to come! And coming soon -- Fourth and greatest of the immortal "Skylark I ' stories, his memorable serials! Send in your order today and we will send you the next newsstand price. But act now! Use this order blank or order by letter -- but don't delay! IF -- Subscription Department #I Hudson Street, New York, N. Y. # Yes, send me the next # issues of IF! I enclose #,  New  Renewal Name... City State Zip No (Outside of N. and S. America add # for postage) Vol. #, NO. # Frederik Pohl, Editor Sol Cohen , Publisher Diane Sullivan , Associate Editor David Perton, Production Mgr, Mavis Fisher , Subs. Mgr . IF published monthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, Robert M. Guinn, President, Vol. #, No. #. Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York #, New York. #c per copy. Subscriptions # issues # in the United States, Canada, Mexico, South America and Central America and U.S. possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All rights including translations reserved. All material submitted must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelope The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories are fiction, and any simariliaty between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in the U. S. A. by the Guinn Company, New York #, N. Y. IP  Bditorvd What #i and F ans read science fiction. Fans write letters to science-fiction magazines. Fans publish magazines of their own -- hold conventions -- organize into clubs. Fans also -- and this is something that every professional writer or editor in the field, as well as every reader, is endlessly indebted to them for -- do an enormous amount of cataloguing, bibliographing and organizing of literary fragments. Are you a Burroughs fan? Would you like to know the name and publisher of every story Edgar Rice Burroughs ever wrote? It's all in books and magazines prepared by fans. Is there a forty-year-old science-fiction novel you'd like to track down? You can find it in Bleiler and Dikty's The Checklist of Fantastic Lit erature . Care to locate any science-fiction story? Don Day's Index to the Science Fiction Magazines covers everything up to # -- other lists and supplements carry the indexing rght up to the present day. These are hobby books for readers and collectors... but they're something more than that, too. They are the basic tools for a good many professionals. And we're very grateful! Newest of these Things That Fans Do is what looks like the biggest of them all. It is called A Checklist of Science-Fiction Anthologies , large size, some # pages. It covers more than two hundred anthologies -- including some # stories by over # writers -- published between # and #. Most are U.S.A. in origin, but France and England are represented too. It is compiled by W.R. Cole (with an introduction by Theodore Sturgeon), and it is an impressive job. Perfect? No, it's not perfect Some stories are unaccountably missing. Some anthologies have been left out. Once or twice there is a plain slip, like listing a story under one member of a collaborating team and forgetting to list it under the other. But k's the best of its kind -- almost the only of its kind -- and well be using it over and over in years to come, we know. That's the kind of things fans do that endear them most of all to Why were these men great? How does anyone -- man or woman -- achieve greatness? Is it not by mastery of the powers within ourselves ? Know the mysterious world within you ! Attune yourself to the wisdom of the ages! Grasp the inner power of your mind ! Learn the secrets of a full and peaceful life ! Benjamin Franklin, statesman and inventor... Isaac Newton, discoverer of the Law of Gravitation... Francis Bacon, philosopher and scientist... like many other learned and great men and women... were Rosicrucians. The Rosicrucians existence for centuries. Today, headquarters of of mail annually to all parts of the world. IF  NovtUMj If was  fanta s tic place to tight a rocks could conceal an alien ambushl E arth's Gobi spaceport was perhaps the biggest in all the small corner of the galaxy settled by Solarian Man and hk descendants; at least, so thought Mitdiell Spain, who had seen most of those ports in his twenty-four years of life. But looking down now from the crowded, descending shuttle, he could see almost nothing of the Gobi's miles of ramp. The vast crowd below, meaning only joyful welcome, had defeated its own p pose by forcing back and breaking the police lines. Now the vertical string of descending shuttle-ships had to pause, searching for enough clear room to land. Mitchell Spain, crowded into the lowest shuttle with a thousand other volunteers, was paying little attention to the landing problem for the moment. Into this jammed compartment, once a luxurious observation lounge, had just come Johann Karisen himself; and this was Mitch's first chance for a good look at the newly appointed High Commander of Sol's defense, though Mitch had ridden Karlsen's spear-shaped flagship all the way from Esteel. Karlsen was no older than Mitchell Spain, and no taller, his shortness somehow surprising at first glance. He had become ruler of the planet Esteel largely through the influence of his half-brother, the mighty Felipe Nogara; but he held that rule by his own talents. "This field may be blocked for the rest of the day," Karlsen was saying now, to a cold-eyed Earthman who had just come aboard the shuttle from an aircar. "Let's have the ports open, I want to look around." Glass and metal slid and reshaped themselves, and sealed ports became small balconies open to the air of Earth, the fresh smells of a living planet -- open, also, to the roaring chant of the crowd a few hundred feet below: "Karlsen! Karlsen!" As the High Commander stepped out onto a balcony to survey for himself the chances of landing, the throng of men in the lounge made a seemingly involuntary brief surging movement, as if to follow. These men were mostly Esteeler volunteers, with a sprinkling of adventurers like Mitchell Spain, the Martian wanderer who had signed up on Esteel for the battle bounty Karlsen offered. "Don't crowd, outlander," said a tall man ahead of Mitch, turning and looking down at him. "I answer to die name of Mitchell Spain." He let his voice rasp a shade deeper than usual "No move an outlander here than you, I think." The tall one, by his dress and accent, came from Venus, a planet terraformed only within the last century, whose people were sensitive and proud in newness of independence and power. A Venerian might well be jumpy here, on a ship filled with men from a planet ruled by Felipe Nogara's brother. "Spain -- sounds like a Martian name," said the Venerian in a milder tone, looking down at Mitch. M artians were not known for patience and long suffering. After another moment the tall one seemed to get tired of locking eyes and turned away. The cold-eyed Earthman, his face somehow familiar to Mitch, was on the communicator, probably to the captain of the shuttle. "Drive on toward the city; cross the Khosutu highway, and let down there." Karlsen, back inside, said: "Tell him to go no more than about ten kilometers an hour; they seem to want to see me." The statement was matter-of-fact; if people had made great efforts to see Johann Karlsen, it was only die courteous thing to greet them. Mitch watched Karlsen's face, and then the back of his head, and the strong arms lifted to wave, as the High Commander stepped out again onto the little balcony. The crowdli roar doubled. Is that all you feel, Karlsen, a I wish to be courteous? Oh, no, my friend, you are acting. To be greeted with that thunder must do something rital to any man. It might exalt him; possibly it could disgust or frighten him, friendly as it was. You wear well your mask of courteous nobility, High Commander. What was it like to be Johann Karlsen, come to save the world, when none of the really great and powerful ones seemed to care too much about it? With a bride of famed beauty to be yours when the battle has been won? And where was brother Felipe today? Scheming, no doubt, to get economic power over yet another planet. With another shift of the little mob inside the shuttle the tall Venerian moved from in front of Mitch who could now see clearly out the port past Karlsen. Sea of faces, the old cliche, this was really it. How to write this... Mitch knew he would someday have to write it. If all men's foolishness was not permanently ended by the coming battle with the unliving, the battle bounty should suffice to let a man write for some time. Ahead now were the bone-colored towers of Ulan Bator, rising beyond their fringe of suburban slideways and sunfields a highway, and bright multicolored pennants, worn by the aircars swarming out from the city in glad welcome. Police aircars were keeping pace protectively with the spaceship, though there seemed no possible danger from anything but excess enthusiasm. Another, special, aircar approached. The police craft touched it briefly and gently, then drew back with deference. Mitch stretched his neck, and made out a Carmpan insignia on the car. It was probably their ambassador to Sol, in person. The space shuttle eased to a dead slow creeping. Some said that the Carmpan looked like machines themselves, but they were the strong allies of Earth-descended man in the war against the enemies of all life. If the Carmpan bodies were slow and squarish, their minds were visionary; if they were curiously unable to use force against any enemy, their indirect help was of great value. S omething near silence came over the vast crowd as the ambassador reared himself up in his open car; from his head and body ganglions of wire and fiber stretched to make a hundred connections with Carmpan animals and equipment around him. The crowd recognized the meaning of the network; a great sigh went up. In the shuttle men jostled one another trying for a better view. The cold-eyed Earthman whispered rapidly into the communicator. "Prophecy!" said a hoarse voice, near Mitch's ear. " -- of Probability!" come the ambassador's voice, suddenly amplified, seeming to pick up the thought in mid-phrase. The Carmpan Prophets of Probability were half mystics, half cold mathematicians. Karlsen's aids must have decided, or known, that this prophecy was goinn to he a favorable, inspiring thing winch the crowd should hear and had ordered the ambassador's yoice picked up on a public address system. "The hope, the living spark, to spread the flame of life!" The inhuman mouth chopped out the words, which still rose ringingly. The armlike appendages pointed straight to Karlsen, level on his balcony with the hovering aircar. "The dark metal thoughts are now of victory, the dead things make their plans to kill us all. But in this man before me now, there is life greater than any strength of metal. A power of life, to resonate -- in all of us. I see -- with Karlsen -- victory -- " The strain on a Carmpan prophet in action seemed always to be immense, just as his accuracy was always high. Mitch had heard that tfie stresses involved were more topological than electrical. He had heard it, but like most Earthdescended, had never understood it. "Victory," the ambassador repeated. "Victory... and then..." Something changed in the nonSolarian face. The cold-eyed Earthman was perhaps expert in reading ilien expressions, or was perhaps taking no chances. He whispered another command, and the amplification was taken from the Carmpan voice. A roar of approval mounted up past shuttle and aircar, from the great throng who thought the prophecy complete. But the ambassador was not finished, though now only those a few meters in front of him, inside the shuttle, could hear his faltering voice... then death, destruction, failure." The square body bent, but the alien eyes were still riveted on Karlsen. "He who wins everything -- will die owning nothing..." The Carmpan bent down and his aircar moved away. In the lounge of the shuttle there was silence. The hurrahing outside seemed to have a tone of mockery. After long seconds, the High Commander raised his voice: "Men, we who heard the finish of the prophecy are few -- but still we are many, to keep a secret. So I don't ask for secrecy. But spread the word, too, that I have no faith in prophecies that are not of God. The Carmpan have never claimed to be infallible." The gloomy answer was unspoken, but almost telepathically loud among the group. Nine times out of ten, the Carmpan are right. There will be victory, then death and failure. But did the dark ending apply only to Johann Karlsen, or to the whole cause of the living? The men in the shuttle looked at one another, wondering and murmuring. T he shuttles found space to land, at the edge of Ulan Bator. Disembarking, there was no chance for gloom, with the joyous crowd growing thicker by the moment around the ships. A lovely Earth girl came wreathed in garlands, to throw a flowery loop around Mitchell Spain, and to kiss him. He was an ugly man, quite unused to such Still, he noticed when the High Commander's eye was on him. "You, Martian, come with me to the General Staff meeting. I want to show a representative group in there so they'll believe Esteel is cosmopolitan. I need one or two who were born in Sol's light." "Yes, sir." Was there no other reason why Karlsen had singled him out? They stood together in the crowd, two short men looking levelfy at each other. One ugly and flower-bedecked, his arm still around a girl who stared with sudden awed recognition at the other man, who was magnetic in a way beyond handsomeness or ugliness. The ruler of a planet, perhaps to be the savior of all life. "I like the way you keep people from standing on your toes in a crowd," said Karlsen to Mitchell Spain. "Without raising your voice or uttering threats. What's your name and rank?" Military organization was vague, in this war where everything that lived was on the same side. "Mitchell Spain, sir. No rank assigned, yet. I've been training with the marines. I was on Esteel when you offered a good battle bounty, so here I am." "Not to .defend Mars?" "I suppose, that too. But I might as well get paid for it." Karlsen's high-ranking aides were wrangling and shouting now, about groundcar transportation to the Staff meeting. This seemed to leave Karlsen with time to talk. He thought, and recognition flickered on his face. "Mitchell Spain? The poet?" "I -- I've had a couple of things published. Nothing much..." "Have you combat experience?" "Yes, I was aboard one berserker, before it was pacified. That was out -- " "Later, we'll talk. Probably have some marine command for you. Experienced men are scarce. Hemphill, where are those groundcars?" The cold-eyed Earthinan turned to answer. Of course, his face had been familiar; this was Hemphill, fanatic hero of a dozen berserker fights. Mitch was faintly awed, in spite of himself. At last the groundcars came. The ride was into Ulan Bator. The military center would be under the metropolis, taking full advantage of the defensive forcefields that could be extended up into space to protect the area of the city. Riding down the long elevator zig-zag to the buried War Room, Mitch found himself again next to Karlsen. "Congratulations on your coming marriage, sir." Mitch didn't know if he liked Karlsen or not; but already he felt curiously certain of him, as if he had known the man for years. Karlsen would know he was not trying to curry favor. The High Commander nodded. "Thank you." He hesitated for a moment, then produced a small photo. In an illusion of three dimensions it showed the head of a young woman, golden hair done in the style favored by the new aristocracy of Venus. There was no need for any polite stretching of truth. "She's very beautiful." "Yes." Karlsen looked long at II tiie picture, as if reluctant to put it away. "There are those who say this will be only a political alliance. God knows we need one. But believe me, Poet, she means far more than that to me." Karlsen blinked suddenly, and, as if amused at himself, gave Mitch a why-am-I-telling-you-all-this look. The elevator floor pressed up under the passengers' feet, and the doors sighed open. They had reached the catacomb of the General Staff. n M any of the Staff were Venetian in these days, though not an absolute majority. From their greeting, it was plain that the Venerian members were coldly hostile to Nogara's brother. Humanity was, as always, a tangle of cliques and alliances. The brains of the Solarian Parliament and the Executive had been taxed to find a High Commander. If some objected to Johann Karlsen, no one who knew him had any honest doubt of his ability. He brought with him to battle many trained men, and unlike some mightier leaders, he had sponsibility for the defense of Sol. In the frigid atmosphere in which the Staff meeting opened, there was nothing but to get quickly to business. The enemy, the berserker machines, had abandoned their old tactics of single, unpredictable raids. Those tactics had once threatened the intelligent life of this part of the galaxy with ruin, but slowly over the last decades the defenses of life had been strengthened, the scales had begun to tip. There were now thought to be about two hundred berserker machines; they had recently formed themselves into a fleet, with concentrated power capable of overwhelming one at a time all centers of human resistance. Two strongly defended planets had already been destroyed. A massed human fleet was needed, first to defend Sol, and then to meet and break the power of the unliving. "So far, then, we are agreed," said Karlsen, straightening up from the plotting table and looking around at the General Staff. "We have not as many ships, or as many trained men as we would like. Perhaps no government away from Sol has contributed all it could." Kemal, the Venerian Admiral, glanced around at his planetmen, but declined the chance to comment on the weak contribution of Karlsen's own half-brother, Nogara. There was no living being upon whom Earth, Mars, and Venus could agree, as the leader for this war. KemalseemNogara's brother. Karlsen went on: "We have available for combat two hundred and forty-three ships, specially constructed or modified to suit the new tactics I propose to use. We are all grateful for the magnificent Venerian contribution of a hundred ships. Six of them, as you all probably know, mount the new long range, C-plus cannon." The praise produced no visible IP among the Venerians. Karlten went on. "We seem to have a numerical advantage of about forty ships. I needn't tell you how the enemy outgun us and outpower us, unit for unit." He paused. "The ram-and-board tactics should give us just the element of surprise we need." P erhaps the High Commander was choosing his words carefully, not wanting to say that some element of surprise offered the only logical hope of success. After the decadeslong dawning of hope, it would be too much to say that. Too much for even these tough-minded men who knew how a berserker machine weighed in the scales of war against any ordinary warship. "One big problem is trained men," Karlsen continued, "to lead the boarding parties. I've done the best I can, recruiting. Of those ready and in training as boarding marines now, the bulk are Estellers." Admiral Kemal seemed to guess what was coming; he started to push back his chair and rise, then waited, evidently wanting to make certain. Karlsen went on in the same level tone. "These trained marines will be formed into companies, and one company assigned to each warihip. Then -- " "One moment, High Commander Karlsen." Kemal had risen. "Yes?" "Do I understand that you mean lo station companies of Esteelers board Venerian ships?" "In many cases my plan will mean that, yes. You protest?" "I do." The Venerian looked around at his planetmen. "We all do." "Nevertheless it is so ordered." Kemal looked briefly around at his fellows once more, then sat down, blank-faced. The stenocameras in the room's corners emitted their low sibilance, reminding all that their proceedings were being recorded. A vertical crease appeared briefly in the High Commander's forehead, and he looked for long thoughtful seconds at the Venerians before resuming his talk. But what else was there to do, except put Esteelers onto Venerian ships? They won't let you be a hero, Karlsen, thought Mitchell Spain. The universe is bad; and men are fools, never really all on the same side in any war. Ill I n the hold of the Venerian warship Solar Spot the armor lay packed inside a padded coffin-like crate. Mitch knelt beside it inspecting the knee and elbow joints. "Want me to paint some insignia on it, Captain?" It was a young Esteeler named Fishman, one of the newly formed marine company Mitch now commanded. Fishman had picked up a multicolor paintstick somewhere, and he pointed with it to the suit. Mitch glanced around at the hold, swarming with his men busily opening crates of equipment. He had decided to let things run themselves as much as possible. "Insignia? Why, I don't think so. Unless you have some idea for a company insignia. That might be a good thing to have." There seemed no need for any distinguishing mark on his armored suit. It was of Martian make, distinctive in style, old but with the latest improvements built in -- probably no man wore better. The barrel chest already bore one design -- a large black spot shattered by jagged red -- showing that Mitch had been In at the 'death' of one berserker. Mitch's uncle had worn the same armor; the men of Mars had always gone in great numbers out to space. "Sergeant McKendrick," Mitch asked, "what do you think about having a company insignia?" The newly appointed sergeant, an intelligent-looking young man, paused in walking past, and looked from Mitch to Fishman as if trying to decide who stood where on insignia before committing himself. Then he looked between them, his expression hardening. A thin-faced Venerian, evidently an officer, had entered the hold with a squad of six men behind him, armbanded and sidearmed. Ship's Police. The officer took a few steps and then stood motionless, looking at the paintstick in Fishman's hand. When everyone in the hold was silently watching him, he asked quiedy: "Why have you stolen from ship's stores?" "Stolen -- this!" The young Esteller held up the paintstick, half smiling, as if ready to share a joke. They didn't come joking with  Police squad, or, if they did, it was not the kind of joke a Martian appreciated. Mitch still knelt beside his crated armor. There was an unloaded carbine inside the suit's torso and he put his hand on it. "We are at war, and we are in space," the thin-faced officer went on, still speaking mildly, standing relaxed, looking round at the openmouthed Esteeler company. "Everyone aboard a Venerian ship is subject to law. For stealing from ship's stores, while we face the enemy, the penalty is death. Take him away." He made an economical gesture to his squad. e paintstick clattered loudly on the deck. Fishman looked as if he might be going to topple over, half the smile still on his face. IF Mitch stood up, the carbine in the crook of his arm. It was a stubby weapon with heavy double barrels, really a miniature recoilless cannon, to be used in free fall to destroy armored machinery. "Just a minute, " Mitch said. A couple of the police squad had begun to move uncertainly toward Fishman; they stopped in their tracks, as if glad of the chance. The officer looked at Mitch, and raised one cool eyebrow. "Do you know what the penalty is, for threatening me?" "Can't be any worse than the penalty for blowing your ugly head off. I'm Captain Mitchell Spain, marine company commander on this ship, and nobody just comes in here and drags my men away and hangs them. Who are you?" "I am Mr. Salvador," said the Venerian. His eyes appraised Mitch, no doubt establishing that he was Martian. Wheels were turning in Mr. Salvador's calm brain, and plans were changing. He said: "Had I known that a man commanded this -- group -- I would not have thought an object lesson necessary. Come." This last word was addressed to his squad and accompanied by another simple elegant gesture. The six almost rushed to precede him to the exit. Salvador's eyes motioned Mitch to follow him toward the door. There he turned, still unruffled. "Your men will follow you eagerly now, Captain Spain," he said in a voice too low for anyone else to hear. "And the time will come when a faint smile, as if of appreciation, he was gone. There was a moment of silence Mitch stared at the closed door, wondering. Then a roar of jubilation burst out and his back was being pounded. "Captain -- what'd he mean, catting himself mister?" "It's some kind of political rank the Venerians have. You guys look here! I may need some honest witnesses." Mitch held up the carbine for all to see, and broke open t ha chambers and clips, showing it to be unloaded. There was renewed excitement, more howls and jokes at the expense of the retreated Venerians. But Salvador had not thought himself defeated. "McKendrick, call the bridge. Tell the ship's captain I want to see him. Let's get on with this unpacking." ' Young Fishman, paintstick to hand again, stood staring vacantly down as if contemplating a design for the deck. It was beginning to soak in, how close a thing it had been. But could the death-threat have been really serious? T he ship's captain was coldly noncommittal, but he indicated there were no present plans for hanging any Estellers on the Solar Spot. During the next sleep period Mitch kept armed sentries posted in the marines' quarters. The next day he was summoned to the flagship. From the launch be had a view of a dance of bright If dots, glinting in the light of distant Sol. Part of the fleet was already at ramming practice. Behind the High Commander's desk sat neither a poetry critic nor a musing bridegroom, but the ruler of a planet. "Captain Spain -- sit down." To be given a chair seemed a good sign. Waiting for Karlsen to finish some paperwork, Mitch's thoughts wandered, recalling customs he had read about, ceremonies of saluting and posturing men had used in the past when huge permanent organizations had been formed men and destroying their property. Certainly men were still as greedy as ever; and now the great conflict with the unliving was forcing them to organize again for mass destruction. Could those old days, when life fought all-out war against life, ever come again? With a sigh, Karlsen pushed aside his papers. "What happened yesterday, between you and Mr. Salvador?" "He said he meant to hang one of my men." Mitch gave the story, s simply as he could. He omitted only Salvador's parting words, without fully reasoning out why he did. "When I'm made responsible for men," he finished, "nobody just walks in and hangs them. Though rm not fully convinced they would have gone that far, I meant to be as serious about it as they were." The High Commander picked out a paper from his desk litter. "Two Esteeler marines have been hanged already. For fighting." "Damned arrogant Venerians I'd say." "I want none of that, CaptainP "Yes sir. But I'm telling you ws came mighty close to a shooting war, yesterday on the Solar Spot" "I realize that" Karlsen made a gesture expressive of futility. "Spain, is it impossible for the people of this fleet to cooperate, even when the survival -- what is it?" T he Earthman, Hemphill, had entered the cabin without ceremony. His thin lips were pressed tighter than ever. "A courier has just arrived with news. Atsog is attacked." Karlsen's strong hand crumpled papers with an involuntary twitch. "Any details?" "The courier captain says he thinks the whole berserker fleet was there. The ground defenses were still resisting strongly when he pulled out. He just got his ship away in time." Atsog; a planet closer to Sol than the enemy had been thought to be. It was Sol they were coming for, all right. They must know it was the human center. More people were at the oabin door. Hemphill stepped aside for the Venerian, Admiral Kemal. Mr. Salvador, hardly glancing at Mitch followed the admiral in. "You have heard the news. High Commander?" Salvador began. Kemal, just ready to speak himself, gave his political officer an annoyed glance, but said nothing. "That Atsog is attacked, yes," said Karlsen. IF "My ships can be ready to move In two hours," said Kemal. Karlsen sighed, and shook his head. "I watched today's maneuvers. The fleet can hardly be ready in two weeks." Kemal's shock and rage seemed genuine. "You'd do that? You'd let a Venerian planet die just because we haven't knuckled under to your brother? Because we discipline his damned Esteeler -- " "Admiral Kemal, you will control yourself! You, and everyone else, are subject to discipline, while I command!" Kemal got himself in hand, apparently with great effort. Karlsen's voice was not very loud, but the cabin seemed to resonate with it. "You call hangings part of your discipline. I swear by the name of God that I will use even hanging, if I must, to enforce some kind of unity in this fleet. Understand, this fleet is the only military power that can oppose the massed berserkers. Trained, and unified, we can destroy them." No listener could doubt it for the moment. "But .whether Atsog falls, or Venus, or Esteel, I will not risk this fleet until I judge it ready." Into the silence, Salvador said, with an air of respect: "High Commander, the courier reported one thing more. That the Lady Christina de Dulcin was visiting on Atsog when the attack began -- and that she must be there still." Karlsen closed his eyes for two seconds. Then he looked round at all of them. "If you have no further military business, gentlemen, get out." His voice was still steady. Walking beside Mitch down the flagship corridor, Hemphill broke a silence to say thoughtfully: "Karlsen is the man the cause needs, now. Some Venerians have approached me, tentatively, about joining a plot -- I refused. We must make sure that Karlsen remains in command." "A plot?" Hemphill did not elaborate. Mitch said: "What they did just now was pretty low -- letting him make that speech about going slow, no matter what -- and then breaking the news to him about his lady being on Atsog." Hemphill said : "He knew already she was there. That news arrived on yesterday's courier." IV T here was a dark nebula made rocks and older than the sun, named the Stone Place by men. Those who gathered there now were not men and they gave nothing a name; they hoped nothing, feared nothing, wondered at nothing. They had no pride and no regret, but they had from electrical pressure and flow -- and their built-in purpose, toward which their planning circuits moved. As if by instinct the berserker machines had formed themselves into a fleet when the time was ripe, when the eternal enemy, Life, had begun to mass its strength. The planet named Atsog in the life-language had yielded a number of still functioning life-units from had been destroyed while their stubborn defenses were beaten down. Functional life-units were sources of valuable information -- long ago the berserkers had learned human languages, and something of human psychology. There were stimuli, even the threat of which usually brought at least limited cooperation from any life-unit. The life-unit (designating itself General Bradin) which had controlled the defense of Atsog, was among those captured, almost undamaged. Its dissection was begun within perception of the other captured life-units. The thin outer covering tissue was delicately removed, and placed upon a suitable form, to preserve it for further study. The life-units which controlled othen were examined carefully, whenever possible. After this stimulus, it was no longer possible to communicate intelligibly with General Bradin; in a matter of hours it ceased to function at all. In itself a trifling victory, this small unit of watery matter was freed of the aberration called Life. But the flow of information now increased from the nearby units which had perceived the process. It was soon confirmed that the Life-units were assembling a fleet More detailed information was sought. One important line of questioning concerned the life-unit which would control this fleet Gradually, from interrogations and the reading of captured records, a picture emerged. A name: Johann Karlsen. A biography. Contradictory things were said about him, but die facts showed he had risen rapidly to a position units. Throughout the long war, the berserker computers had gathered and collated all available data on the men who became leaders of Life. Now against this data they matched, point for point, every detail that could be learned about Johann Karlsen. The behavior of these leading units often resisted analysis, as if some quality of the life-disease in them was forever beyond the reach of machines. These individuals used logic, but sometimes it seemed they were not bound by logic. The most IF dangerous life-units of all sometimes acted in ways that seemed to contradict the known supremacy of the laws of physics and of chance, as if they could be minds possessed of true free will, instead of its illusion. And Karlsen was one of these, supremely one of these. His fitting of the dangerous pattern became plainer with every new comparison. In the past, such life-units had been troublesome local problems. For one of them to command the whole life-fleet with a decisive battle approaching, was extremely dangerous to the cause of Death. The outcome of the approaching battle seemed almost certain to be favorable, since there were probably only two hundred ships in the lifefleet. But die brooding berserkers could not be certain enough of anything, white a unit like Johann Karlsen led the Irving. And if the battle was long postponed the enemy Life could become stronger. There were hints that inventive Life was developing new weapons, newer and more powerful ships. The wordless conference reached a decision. There were berserker reserves, which had waited for millenaa along the galactic rim, dead and uncaring in their hiding places among dust clouds and heavy nebulae, and on dark stars. For this climactic battle they must be summoned, the power of Life to resist must be broken now. From the berserker fleet at the Stone Place, between Atsog's Sun and Sol, courier machines sped out toward the galactic rim. It would take some time for all the reserves to gather. Meanwhile, the interrogations went on. iiT isten, I've decided I can help JL' you, see. About this guy Karlsen, I know you want to find out about him. Only I got a delicate brain. If anything hurts me my brain don't work at all, so no rough stuff on me, understand? I'M be no good to you ever if you use rough stuff on me." This prisoner was unusual. The interrogating computer borrowed new circuits for itself, chose , symbols and hurled them back at the life-unit. "What can you tell me about Karlsen?" "Listen, you're gonna treat me right, aren't you?" "Useful information will be rewarded. Untruth will bring you unpleasant stimuli." "I'll tell you this now -- the woman Karfsen was going to marry is here, you caught her alive in the same shelter Bradin was in." Tr.v.v. "Now if you sort of give me control over all these other prisoners make things nice for me, why I bet I can think up the best way for you to use her. If you just tell him you've got her, why he might not believe you, see?" Out on the galactic rim, the signals of the heralds called out the hidden reserves of the unliving. Subtle detectors heard the signals, and triggered the great engines into cold flame. The forcefield brain in each strategic housing awoke to livelier death. Each reserve machine acknowledged the call and began to move with metallic leisure, shaking loose its cubic miles of weight and power, freeing itself from dust, or ice, or age-old mud, or solid rock -- then rising and turning, orienting itself in space. All converging, they drove faster than light toward the Stone Place, where the destroyers of Atsog awaited their reinforcement. With the arrival of each reserve machine, the linked berserker computers saw victory more probable. But still the quality of one life-unit made all computations uncertain. V F elipe Nogara raised a strong and hairy hand, and wiped it gently across one glowing segment of the panel before his chair. The center of his private study was filled by an enormous display sphere, which now showed a representation of the explored part of the galaxy. At Nogara's gesture, the sphere dimmed and began to relight itself in a slow intricate sequence. A wave of his hand had just theoretically eliminated the berserker fleet as a factor in the power game. To leave it in, he told himaelf, diffused the probabilities too widely. It was really the competing power of Ventrs -- and that of two or three other prosperous, agressive planets -- which occupied his mind. Well insulated in this private room from the hum of Esteel City and from the routine press of business, Nogara watched his computers' new prediction take shape, showing the political power structure as it might exist one year from now, two year five. As he had expected, this m quence showed Esteel expanding hi influence. It was even possible that he could become ruler of the human galaxy. Nogara wondered at his own calm in the face of such an idea. Twelve or fifteen years ago he had driven with all his power of intellect and will to advance himself. Gradually, the moves in the game had come to seem automatic. Today, there was a chance that almost every thinking being known to exist would come to acknowledge him as ruler -- and it meant less to him than the first local election he had ever won. Diminishing returns, of course. The more gained, the greater gain needed to produce an equal pleasure. At least when he was alone. If his aides were watching this prediction now it would certainly excite them, and he would catch their excitement. But, being alone, he sighed. The berserker fleet would not vanish at the wave of a hand. Today, what was probably the final plea for more help had arrived from Earth. The trouble was that granting Sol more help would take ships and men and money from Nogara's expansion projects. Wherever he did that now he stood to lose out, eventually, to other men. Old Sol would have to survive the coming attack with no more help from Esteel. Nogara realized, wondering dully at himself, that he would as soon see even Esteel destroyed as see control slip from his hands. Now why? He could not say he loved his IF planet or people, but he had been, by and large, a good ruler, not a tyrant. Good government was, after all, good politics. His desk chimed the melodious notes that meant something was newly available for his amusement Nogara chose to answer. # COir," said a woman's voice, "two O new possibilities are in the ahower room now." Projected from hidden cameras, a scene glowed into life above Nogara's desk; bodies gleaming in a pray of water. "They are from prison, sir, anxious for any reprieve." Watching, Nogara felt only a weariness; and, yes, something like self-contempt. He questioned himself: Where in all the universe is there a reason why I should not seek pleasure as I choose? And again: Will I dabble in sadism, next? And if I do, what of it? But what after that? Having paused respectfully, the voice asked: "Perhaps this evening you would prefer something different?" "Later," he said. The scene vanished. Maybe I should try to be a Believer for a while, he thought. What an intense thrill it must be for Johann to sin. If he ever does. That had been a genuine pleasure, seeing Johann given command of the Solarian Fleet, watching the Venerians boil. But it had raised another problem. Johann, victorious over the berserkers would emerge as the greatest hero in human history. Would that not make even Johann dangerously ambitious? The thing to do would be to ease him out of the public eye, give him some highranked job, honest, but dirty and ingforious. Hunting out outlaws somewhere, Johann would probably accept that, being Johann. But if Johann bid for galactic power, he wo ul d have to take his chances. Any pawn in the game might be removed. Nogara shook his head. Suppose Johann lost the coming battle, and lost Sol? A berserker victory would not be a matter of diffusing probabilities, that was pleasant double talk for a tired mind to fool itself with. A berserker victory would mean the end of Earth man in the galaxy, probably within a few years. No computer was needed to see that There was a little bottle in his desk; Nogara brought it out and looked at it The end of the chess game was in It The end of all pleasure and boredom and pain. Looking at the vfad caused him no emotion. In H was a powerful drug which threw a man into a kind of ecstasy -- a transcendental excitement that within a few minutes burst the heart or the blood vessels of the brain. Someday, when all else was exhausted, when it was completely a berserker universe -- He put the vial away and he put away die final appeal from Earth. What did it all matte? Was it not a berserker unxvene already, everything determined by the random swirls of condensing gas, before the stars were born? Felipe Nogara leaned back in Ids chair, watching his computers marking out the galactic chessboard. VI T hrough the fleet the rumor spread that Karlsen delayed because it was a Venerian colony under seige. Aboard the Solar Spot , Mitch saw no delays for any reason. He had time for only work, quick meals and sleep. When the final ram-and-board drill had been completed, the last stores and ammunition loaded, Mitch was too tired to feel much except relief. He rested, not frightened or elated, while the Spot wheeled into a rank with forty other arrow-shaped ships, dipped with them into the first Cplus jump of the deep space search, and began to hunt the enemy. It was days later before dull routine was broken by a jangling battle alarm. Mitch was wakened by it; before his eyes were fully opened, he was scrambling into the armored suit stored under his bunk. Nearby, some marines grumbled about practice alerts; but none of them was moving slowly. "This is High Commander Karlsen speaking," boomed the overhead speakers. "This is not a practice alert, repeat, not practice. Two berserkers have been sighted. One we've just glimpsed at extreme range. Likely it will get away, though the Ninth Squadron is chasing if. "The other is not going to escape. In a matter of minutes we will have it englobed, in normal space. We are not going to destroy it by bombardment; we are going to It soften it up a bit, and then see how well we can really ram-andboard. If there are any bugs left in our tactics, we'd better find out now. Squadrons Two, Four, and Seven will each send one ship to the ramming attack. I'm going back on Command Channel now, Squadron Commanders." "Squadron Four," sighed Sergeant McKendrick. "More Esteelers in our company than any other. How can we miss?" The marines lay like dragon's teeth seeded in the dark, strapped into the padded acceleration couches that had been their bunks, while the psych-music tried to hill them, and those who were Believers prayed. In the darkness Mitch listened, and passed on to his men the terse battle reports that came to him as marine commander on the ship. He was afraid. What was death, that men should fear it so? It could be only the end of all experience. That was inevitable, and beyond imagination, and he feared it. The preliminary bombardment did not take long. Two hundred and thirty ships of life held a single great trapped enemy in the center of their hollow sphere formation. The enemy did not give a damn if he was trapped because he was dead already and had always been dead. Listening in the dark to laconic voices, Mitch heard how the great berserker fought back, as if with the finest human courage and contempt for odds. Could you really fight machines when you could never make them suffer pain or fear? B ut you could defeat machine. And this time, for once, humanity had far too many guns. It would be easy to blow this berserker into vapor. Would it be best to do so? There were bound to be marine casualties m any boarding no matter how favorable the odds. But a true combat test of theboarding scheme was badly needed before the decisive battle came to be fought. And, too, this enemy might hold living prisoners who might be rescued by boarders. A High Commander probably did well to have a rocklike certainty of his own rightness. The order was given. The Spot and two other chosen ships fell in toward the battered enemy at the center of the englobement Straps held Mitch firmly, but the gravity had been turned off for the ramming, and weightlessness gave the impression that his body would fly and vibrate like a pellet shaken in a bottle with the coming impact. Soundless dark, soft cushioning, and lulling music; but a few words came into the helmet and the body cringed, knowing that outside were the black cold guns and the hurtling machines, unimaginable forces leaping now to meet. Now -- Reality shattered in through all the protection and padding. The shaped atomic charge at the tip of the ramming prow opened the berserker's skin. In five seconds of crashing impact, the prow vaporized, melted, and crumpled its length away, the true hull driving behind it until the Solar Spot was sunk like an arrow into the body of her enemy. Mitch spoke for the last time to the bridge of the Solar Spot, while his men lurched past him in free fall, their suit lights glaring. "My panel shows Sally Port Three the only one not blocked," he said. "We're all going out that way." "Remember," said a Venerian voice, "your first job is to protect this ship against counterattack." "Roger." If they wanted to give him offensively unnecessary reminders, now was not the time for argument. He broke contact with the bridge and hurried after his men. The other two ships were to send their boarders fighting toward the strategic housing, which would be somewhere deep in the berserker's center. The marines from the Solar Spot were to try to find and save any prisoners the berserker might hold. A berserker usually held prisoners near its surface, so the first search would be made by squads spreading out under the hundreds of square kilometers of hull. In the dark chaos of wrecked machinery just outside the sally port there was no sign yet of counterattack. The berserkers' unknown builders supposedly had not constructed them to fight battles inside their own metallic skins, upon which fact rode the fleet's hopes for success in a major battle. Mitch left forty men to defend the hull of the Spot, and himself led a squad of ten out into the labyrinth. There was no use setting himself up in a command post -- communications in here would be impossible, once out of line-ofsight. T he first man in each searching squad carried a mass spectrometer, an instrument that would detect the stray atoms of oxygen bound to leak from compartments where living beings breathed. The last man wore on one hand a device to blaze a trail with arrows of luminous paint; without a trail, getting lost in this three-dimensional maze would be almost inevitable. "Got a scent, Captain," said Mitch's spectrometer man, after five minutes' casting through the squad's assigned sector of the dying berserker. "Keep on it." Mitch was second in line, his carbine ready. The detector man led the way through a' dark and weightless mechanical universe, perhaps last seen by living eyes fifty-thousand years before. Several times he paused, adjusting his instrument and waving its probe. The pace was rapid; men trained in free fall, given plenty of holds to thrust and steer by could move faster than runners. A towering, multi-jointed shape rose up before the detector man, brandishing blue-white welding arcs like swords. Before Mitch was aware of aiming his carbine fired twice. The shells ripped the machine open and pounded it backward; it was only some semi-robotic maintenance device, not built for fighting. The detector man had nerve; he plunged right on. The squad kept pace with him, their suit lights scouting out unfamiliar shapes and distances, cutting knife-edge shadows m the vacuum, glare and darkness IF mellowed only by reflection. "Getting close!" And then they came to it. It was a place like the top of a huge dry well. An ovoid like a ship's launch, very thickly armored, had apparently been raised through the well from deep inside the berserker, and was now clamped to a dock. "It's the launch, it's oozing oxygen." "Captain, there's some kind of airlock on this side. Outer door's open." It looked like the smooth and easy entrance of a trap. "Keep your eyes open." Mitch went into the airlock. "Be ready to blast me out of here if I don't show in one minute." It was an ordinary airlock, probably cut from some human spaceship. He shut himself inside, and then got the inner door open. Most of the interior was a single compartment. In the center was an acceleration couch, holding a nude female mannikin. He drifted near, saw that her head had been depilated and that there were tiny beads of blood still on her scalp, as if probes had just been withdrawn. When his suit lamp hit her face she opened dead blue staring eyes, blinking mechanically. Still not sure that he was looking at a living human being, Mitch drifted beside her and touched her arm with metal fingers. Then ail at once her face became human, her eyes coming from death through nightmare to reality. She saw him and cried out. Before he could free her there were crystal drops of tears in the weightless air. Listening to his rapid orders, she held one hand modestly in front of her, and the other over her raw scalp. Then she nodded, and took into her mouth the end of a breathing tube which would dole air from Mitch's suit tank. In a few more seconds he had her wrapped in a clinging, binding rescue blanket, temporary proof against vacuum and freezing. The detector man had found no other oxygen source near the launch. Mitch ordered his squad back along their luminous trail. A t the sally port, he heard that things were not going well with the attack. Real fighting robots were defending the strategic housing, where its forcefield brain was buried, miles inside it. At least eight men had been killed down there. Two more ships were going to ram and board. Mitch carried the girl through the sally port and three more friendly hatches. The monstrously thick hull of the ship shuddered and sang around him; the Solar Spot, her mission accomplished, boarders retrieved, was being withdrawn. Fufl weight came back, and light. "In here, Captain." berserker's prisoner might have been deliberately infected with something contagious. Men knew how to deal with such tricks; the machines had tried them before. Inside the infirmary, he set her down. While medics and nurses # ft scrambled around, lie unfolded the blanket from tl le girl #  face, remembering to leave h curled over her shaven head, and opened his own helmet. "You can spit out the tube, now," he told her, in his rasping voice. She did so and opened her eyes again. "Oh, are you real?" she whispered. Her hand pushed its way out of the blanket folds and slid over his armor. "Oh, let me touch a human being again!" Her hand moved up to his exposed face and gripped his cheek and neck. "I'm real enough. You're all right, now." ' One of the bustling doctors came to a sudden, frozen halt, staring at the girl. Then he spun around on his heel and hurried away. What was wrong? Others sounded confident, reassuring the girl as they ministered to her. She wouldn't let go of Mitch, die became nearly hysterical when tiey tried gently to separate her from him. "I guess you'd better stay," a doctor told him. He sat there holding her hand, his helmet and gauntlets off. He looked away while they did medical things to her. They still spoke reassuringly; he thought they were finding nothing much wrong. "What's your name?" she asked him when the medics were through for the moment. Her head was bandaged; her slender arm came from between sheets to maintain contact with his hand. "Mitchell Spain." Now that he got a good look at her, a living young human female, he was in no hurry at all to get away. "What's yours?" A shadow crossed her face. "I'm -- not sure." There was a sudden commotion at the infirmary door; High Commander Karlsen was pushing past til he was standing beside Mitch, but he was not looking at Mitch. "Chris," he said to the girl. "Thank God." There were tears in his eyes. The Lady Christina de Dulcin turned her eyes from Mitch to Johann Karlsen, and screamed in abject terror VU C#XJw, Captain, tell me how you I v found her and brought her out." Mitch began his tale. Hie two men were alone in Karlsen's monastic cabin, just off the flagship's bridge. The fight was over, the berserker a torn and harmless hulk. No other prisoners had been aboard it. "They planned to send her back to me," Karlsen said staring into space, when Mitch had finished his account. "We attacked before it could launch her toward us. It kept her safe, and sent her back to me." Mitch was silent. Karlsen's red-rimmed eyes fastened on him. "She's been brainwashed, Poet. It can be done with some permanence, you know, when adIP vantage is taken of the subject's natural tendencies. I suppose she's never thought too much of me. There were political reasons for her to consent to our marriage... she screams when the doctors even mention my name. They tell me it's possible that horrible things were done to her by some man-shaped machine made to look like me. Other people are tolerable, to a degree. But it's you she wants to be alone with, you she needs." "She cried out when I left her, but -- me?" "The natural tendency, you see. For her to -- love -- the man who aaved her. The machines set her mind to fasten all the joy of rescue upon the first male human face she saw. The doctors assure me such things can be done. They've given her drugs, but even in sleep the instruments show her nightmares, her pain, and she cries out for you. What do you feel toward her?" "Sir, I'll do anything I can. What do you want of me?" "I want you to stop her suffering, what else?" Karlsen's voice rose to a nagged shout. "Stay alone with her, stop her pain if you can!" He got himself under a kind of control. "Go on. The doctors will take' you in. Your gear will be brought over from the Solar Spot " Mitch stood up. Any words he could think of sounded in his mind like sickening attempts at humor. He nodded, and hurried out. #Hphis is your last chance to join A us," said the Venerian, Salvador, looking up and down the dim corridors of this remote outer part of the flagship. "Our patience is worn, and we will strike soon. With the de Dulcin woman in her present condition, Nogara's brother is doubly unfit to command." The Venerian must be carrying a pocket spy-jammer; a multisonic whine was setting Hemphill's teeth on edge. And so was the Venerian. "Karlsen is vital to the human cause whether we like him or not," Hemphill said, his own patience about gone, but his voice calm and reasonable. "Don't you see to what lengths the berserkers have gone, to get at him? They sacrificed a perfectly good machine just to deliver his brainwashed woman here, to attack him psychologically." "Well. If that is true they have succeeded. If Karlsen had any value before, now he will be able to think of nothing but his woman and the A Martian." Hemphill sighed. "Remember, he refused to hurry the fleet to Atsog to try to save her. He hasn't failed yet. Until he does, you and the others must give up this plotting against him." Salvador backed away a step, and spat on the deck in rage. A calculated display, thought Hemphill. "Look to yourself, Earth man!" Salvador hissed. "Karlsen's days are numbered, and the days of those who around and walked away. "Wait!" Hemphill called, quietly. The Venerian stopped and turned with an air of arrogant reluctance. Hemphill shot him through the heart with a laser pistol. The weapon made a splitting, crackling noise in atmosphere. "You were good at talking and scheming," Hemphill mused aloud, prodding the dying man with his toe, making sure no second shot was needed. "But too devious, to lead the figjht against the damned machines." He bent quickly to search the body, and stood up elated. He had found a list of officers' names, some few underlined, some, including his own, followed by an interrogation point. Another document was a scribbled compilation of the units under command of certain Venerian officers. There were a few more notes; altogether, plenty of evidence for the arrest of the hard-core plotters. It might tend to split the fleet, but -- Hemphill looked up sharply, then relaxed. The man approaching w as one of his own, whom he had stationed nearby. "We'll take these to the Hih Commander at once." Hemphill waved the papers. "There'll be just time to clean out the traitors and reorganize command before we face battle." Yet he delayed for another moment, staring down at Salvador's corpse. The plotter had been overconfident and inept, but still dangerous. Did some sort of luck operate to protect Karlsen? Karlseo himself did not match Hemphill's ideal of a war leader, he was not as ruthless as machinery or as cold as metal. Yet the damned machines made great sacrifices to attack him. Hemphill shrugged, and hurried on his way. Uli Titch, I do love you. I know IV JL what the doctors say it is, but what do they really know about me?" Christina de Dulcin reclined upon a luxurious acceleration couch, in what was nominally the sleeping room of the High Commander's quarters. Karlsen had never occupied the place, preferring a small cabin. Mitchell Spain sat three feet from Chris, afraid to so much as touch her hand, afraid of what he might do, and what she might do. They were alone, and he felt sure they were unwatched. Chris had even demanded assurances against spy devices and Karlsen had sent his pledge. Besides, what kind of ship would have spy devices built into its highest officer's quarters? IF A situation for bedroom farce, but not when you had to live through it. The man outside taking the strain, had two hundred ships dependent on him now, and many human planets would be lifeless in five years if the coming battle failed. "What do you really know about me, Chris?" he asked. "I know you mean life itself to me. Oh, Mitch, I have no time now to be coy, and mannered, and every those things. And -- once -- I would have married a man like Karleen, for political reasons. But all that was before Atsog." Her voice dropped on the last word, and her hand on her robe made a convulsive grasping gesture. He had to lean forward and take it. "Chris, Atsog is in the past, now." "Atsog will never be over, completely over, for me. I keep remembering more and more of it. Mitch, the machines made us watch while they skinned General Bradin alive. I saw that. I can't bother with silly things like politics anymore, life is too short for them. I don't fear anything anymore, either, except driving you away... He felt pity and lust, and half a dozen other maddening things. "Karlsen's a good man," he said finally. She repressed a shudder. "I suppose," she said, in a controlled voice. "But Mitch, what do you feel for me? Tell the truth -- if you don't love me now, I know you will, in time." She smiled faintly, and raised a hand. "When my silly hair grows back." "Your silly hair." His voice almost broke. He reached to touch her face, then pulled his fingers back as if from a flame. "Chris, you're his girl, and too much depends on him." "I was never his." "Still... I can't lie to you, Chris; maybe I can't tell you the truth, either, about how I feel. The battle's coming, everything's up in the air, paralyzed. No one can plan..." He made an awkward, uncertain gesture. "Mitch." Her voice was understanding. "This is terrible for you, isn't it? Don't worry, I'll do nothing to make it worse. Will you call the doctor? As long as I know you're somewhere near, I think I can rest, now." vra K arisen studied Salvador's papers in silence for some minutes, like a man pondering a chess problem. He did not seem greatly surprised. "I have a few dependable men standing ready," Hemphill finally volunteered. "We can quickly -- arrest -- the leaders of this plot." The blue eyes searched him. truly necessary?" "I thought so," said Hemphill blandly. "He was reaching for his own weapon." Karlsen glanced once more at the papers and reached a decision. "Commander Hemphill, I want you to pick four ships, and scout the far edge of the Stone Place nebula. We don't want to push beyond it, without knowing where the enemy is, and give him a chance to get between us and Sol. Use caution -- to get the general location jjpf the bulk of his fleet is enough."  "Very well." Hemphill nodded. The reconnaissance made sense; and if Karlsen wanted to get Hemphill out of the way, and deal with his human opponents by his own methods, well, let him. Those methods often seemed soft-headed to Hemphill, but they seemed to work for Karlsen. If the damned machines for some reason found Karlsen unendurable, then Hemphill would support him, to the point of cheerful murder and beyond. What else really mattered in the universe, besides smashing the damned machines? Mitch spent hours every day alone with Chris. He kept from her the wild rumors which circulated throughout the fleet. Salvador's violent end was whispered about, and guards were posted near Karlsen 's quarters. Some said Admiral Kemal was on the verge of open revolt. And now the Stone Place was close ahead of the fleet; ebony shattered planets, blotting out half the sky. No ship oould move through the Stone Place; every cubic kilometer of it held enough matter to prevent C-plus travel or normal movement. The fleet headed toward one sharply defined edge, around which Hemphill's scouting squadron had already disappeared. # # Che grows a little saner, a little O calmer, every day," said Mitch, entering the High Commander's monastic cabin. Karlsen looked up from his desk. The papers before him looked like lists of names, in Venerian script. "I thank you for that word. Poet Does she speak of me?" "No." They eyed each other, the poor and ugly cynic, the anointed and handsome Believer. "Poet," Karlsen asked suddenly, "how do you deal with deadly enemies, when you find them in your power?" "We Martians are supposed to be a violent people. Do you expect me to pass sentence on myself?" Karlsen appeared not to understand, for a moment. "Oh. No. I was not speaking of -- you and I, and Chris. Not of personal affairs. I suppose I was only thinking aloud, asking for a sign." "Then don't ask me, ask your God. But didn't he tell you to forgive your enemies?" "He did." Karlsen nodded, slowly and thoughtfully. "You know, He wants a lot from us. A real hell of a lot." It was a peculiar sensation, to become suddenly convinced that the man you were watching was a genuine, non-hypocritical Believer. Mitch was not sure he had ever met the like before. Nor had he ever seen Karlsen quite like this -- passive, waiting, asking for a sign. As if there was in fact some Purpose outside the layers of a man's own mind, that IF could inspire him. Mitch thought about it. If... But that was all mystical nonsense. Karlsen's communicator sounded. Mitch could not make out what the other voice was saying, but he watched the effect on the High Commander. Energy and determination were coming back, there were subtle signs of the return of force, of the tremendous conviction of being right. It was like watching the gentle glow when a fusion power lamp was ignited. "Yes," Karlsen was saying. "Yes, well done." Then he raised the Venerian papers from his desk; it was as if he raised them only by force of will, his fingers only gesturing beneath them. "The news is from Hemphill," he said to Mitch, almost absently. "The berserker fleet is just around the bulge of the Stone Place from us. Hemphill estimates they are two hundred strong, and thinks them unaware of our presence. We attack at once. Man your battle station, Poet; God be with you." He turned back to his communicator. "Ask Admiral Kemal to my cabin at once. Tell him to bring his staff. In particular -- " He glanced at the Venerian papers and read off several names. "Good luck to you, sir." Mitch had delayed to say that. Before he hurried out, he saw Karlsen stuffing the Venerian papers into his trash disintegrator. B efore Mitch reached his own cabin, the battle horns were winding. He had armed and suited himself and was making his way back through the suddenly crowded narrow corridors toward the bridge, when the ship's speakers boomed uddenly to life, picking up Karlens voice:... whatever wrongs we have done you, by word, or deed, or by things left undone. I ask you now to forgive. And in the name of every man who calls me friend or leader, I pledge that any grievance we have against you, is from this moment wiped from memory." Everyone in the crowded passage hesitated in the rush for battle stations. Mitch found himself staring mto the eyes of a huge, well-armed Venerian ship's policeman, probably here on the flagship as some officer's bodyguard. There came an amplified cough and rumble, and then the voice of Admiral Kemal: "We -- we are brothers, Esteeler anl Venerian, and all of us. All of us, together now, the living against th berserker." Kemal's voice rose to a shout: "Destruction to the damned machines, and death to their builders! Let every man remember Atsog!" "Remember Atsog!" roared Karlaen's voice. In the corridor there was a moment's hush, like that before a towering wave smites down. Then a great insensate shout. Mitch found himself with tears in his eyes, yelling something. "Remember General Bradin," cried the big Venerian, grabbing Mitch and hugging him, lifting him, armor and all. "Death to his flayers!" "Death to the flayers!" The shout ran like a flame through the corridors. No one needed to be told that the same things were happening in all the ships in the fleet. All at once there was no room for anything less than brotherhood, no time for anything less than glory. "Destruction to the damned machines ! rt Near the flagship's center of gravity was the bridge, only a dais holding a ring of combat chairs, each with its clustered controls and dials. "Boarding Coordinator ready," Mitch reported, strapping himself in. The viewing sphere near the bridge's center showed the human advance, in two leapfrogging lines of over a hundred ships each. Each ship was a green dot in the sphere, positioned as truthfully as the flagship's computers could manage. The irregular surface of the Stone Place moved beside the battle lines in a series of jerks; the flagship was traveling by C-plus microjumps, so the presentation in the viewing sphere was a succession of still pictures at second-and-a-half intervals. Slowed by the mass of their C-plus cannon, the six fat green symbols of the Venerian heavy weapons ships labored forward, falling behind the rest of the fleet. I n Mitch's headphones someone was saying: "In about ten minutes we can expect to reach -- " The voice died away. There was a red dot in the sphere already, and IP then another, and then a dozen, rising like tiny suns around the bulge of dark nebula. For long seconds the men on the bridge were silent while the berserker advance came into view. Hemphill's scouting party must, after all, have been detected, for the berserker fleet was not cruising, but attacking. There was a battlenet of a hundred or more red dots, and now there were two nets, leapfrogging in and out of space like the human lines. And still the red berserkers rose into view, their formations growing, spreading out to englobe and crush a smaller fleet. "I make it three hundred machines," said a pedantic and somewhat effeminate voice, breaking the silence with cold precision. Once, the mere knowledge that three hundred berserkers existed might have crushed all human hopes. In this place, in this hour, fear itself could frighten no one. The voices in Mitch's headphones began to transact the business of opening a battle. There was nothing yet for him to do but listen and watch. The six heavy green marks were falling further behind; without hesitation, Karlsen was hurling his entire fleet straight at the enemy center. The foe's strength had been underestimated, but it seemed the berserker command had made a similar error, because the red formations too were being forced to regroup, spread themselves wider. The distance between fleets was still too great for normal weapons to be effective, but the laboring heavy-weapons ships with their C. plus cannon were now in range, and they could fire through friendly formations almost as easily as not At their volley Mitch thought he felt space jar around him; it was some freak secondary effect that the human brain noticed, really only wasted energy. Each projectile, blasted by explosives to a safe distance from the launching ship, mounted its own C-plus engine, which then accelerated the projectile while it flickered in and out of reality on microtimers. Their leaden masses magnified by velocity, the huge slugs skipped through existence like stones across water, passing like phantoms through the fleet of life, emerging fully into normal space only as they approached their target, traveling then like de Broglie wavieles, their matter churning internally with a phase velocity greater than that of light Almost instantly after Mitch felt the slugs' ghostly passage, one red dot began to expand and thin into a cloud, still tiny in the viewing sphere. Someone gasped. In a feW more moments, the flagship's own weapons, beams and missiles, went into action. The enemy center stopped, two came on smoothly as the screw of a vast meat-grinder, threatening englobement of the first line of human ships. K arlsen did not hesitate, and a great turning point flickered past in a second. The life-fleet hurtled on, deliberately into, the #S trap, straight for the hinge of the jaws. Space twitched and warped around Mitchell Spain. Every ship in the fleet was firing now, and every enemy answering, and the energies released plucked through his armor like ghostly fingers. Green dots and red vanished from the sphere, but not many of either as yet. The voices in Mitch's helmet slackened, as events raced into a pattern that shifted too fast for human thought to follow. Now for a time the fight would be computer against computer, faithful slave of life against outlaw, neither caring, neither knowing. The viewing sphere on the flagship's bridge was shifting ranges almost in a flicker. One swelling red then half of that, then half again. And now the flagship came into normal space for the final lunge of the attack, firing itself like a bullet at the enemy. Again the viewer switched to a closer range, and the chosen foe was no longer a red dot, but a great forbidding castle, tilted crazily, black against the stars. Only a hundred miles away, then half of that. The velocity of closure slowed to less than a mile a second. As expected, the enemy was accelerating, trying to get away from what must look to it like a suicide charge. For the last time Mitch checked his chair, his suit, his weapons. Chris , be safe in a cocoon. The berserker swelled in the sphere, gun flashes showing now around his steel-ribbed belly. A small one, this, maybe only ten times the flagship's bulk. Always a rotten spot to be found, in every one of them, under their skins old wounds, for the life of the galaxy had fought them for fifty thousand years. Try to run, you monstrous obsenity, try in vain. Closer, twisting closer. Now! Lights all gone, falling in the dark for one endless second -- Impact. Mitch's chair shook him, the gentle pads inside his armor battering and bruising him.' The expendable ramming prow would be vaporizing, shattering and crumpling, dissipating energy down to a level the battering-ram ship could endure. When the crashing stopped, noise still remained, a whining droning symphony of stressed metal and escaping air and gasses, like sobbing breathing. The great machines were locked together now, half the length of the flagship embedded in the berserker. A rough ramming, but no one on the bridge was injured. Damage control reported that the expected air leaks were being controlled. Gunnery reported that it could extend no turret inside the wound yet. Drive reported ready for a maximum effort. Drive! T he ship twisted in the wound it had made. This could be victory, here tearing the enemy open, sawing his metal bowels out into space. The bridge twisted with the structure of the ship, this warship that was more solid metal than anything else. For a moment, Mitch IP thought he could come close to comprehending the power of the engines men had built. "No use, Commander. We're wedged in." The enemy endured. The berserker memory would already be searched, the plans made, the counterattack on the flagship coming, without fear or mercy. The Ship Commander turned his head to look at Johann Karlsen. It had been foreseen that once a battle had reached this melee stage there would be little a High Commander could do. Even if the flagship were not half-buried in an enemy hull, all space nearby was a complete inferno of confused destruction, through which any meaningful communication would be impossible. If Karlsen was helpless now, neither could the berserker computers still link themselves into a single brain. "Fight your ship, sir," said Karlsen. He leaned forward, gripping the arms of his chair, staring at the clouded viewing sphere as if trying to make sense of the few flickering lights within it. The Ship Commander immediately ordered his marines to board. Mitch saw them out the sally ports. Then, sitting still was worse than any action. "Sir, I request permission to join the boarders." Karlsend seemed not to hear. He disqualified himself, for now, from any use of power; especially to set Mitchell Spain in the forefront of the battle, or to hold him bade. The Ship Commander considered. He wanted to keep a Boarding Coordinator on the bridge; but experienced men could be desperately short in the fighting. "Go, then. Do what you can to help defend our sally ports." IX T his berserker defended itself well with soldier-robots. The marines had hardly gotten away from the embedded hull when the counterattack came, cutting most of them off. In a narrow zig-zag passage leading out to the port near which fighting was heaviest, an armored figure met Mitch. "Captain Spain? I'm Sergeant Broom, acting Defense Commander here. Bridge says you're to take over. It's a little rough. Gunnery can't get a turret working inside the wound. The danker have all kinds of room to maneuver, and they keep coming at us." "Let's get out there, then." The two of them hurried forward, through a passage that became only a warped slit. The flagship was bent here, a strained swordblade forced into a chink of armor. "Nothing rotten here," said Mitch, climbing at last out of the sally port. There were sudden distant flashes of light, and the sudden glow of hot metal, by which to see braced girders, like tall buildings, among which the flagship had jammed itself. "Eh? No." Broom must be wondering what he was talking about. But die sergeant stuck to business, pointing out to Mitch where he had about a hundred men disposed among the chaos of tom metal and drifting debris. "The clankers don't use guns. They just drift in, sneaking, or charge in a wave, and get at us hand-to-hand, if they can. Last wave we lost six men." Whining gusts of gas came out of the deep caverns, and scattered blobs of liquid, along with the flashes of light, and deep shudders through the metal. The damned thing might be dying, or just getting ready to fight; there was no way to tell. "Any more of the boarding parties get back?" Mitch asked. "No. Doesn't look good for 'em." "Port defense, this is gunnery," said a cheerful radio voice. "We're getting the eighty-degree upper forward turret working." "Well, then use it!" Mitch rasped back. "We're inside, you can't help hitting something!" A minute later, searchlights moved out from doored recesses in the flagship's hull, and stabbed into the great chaotic cavern. "Here they come again!" yelled Broom. Hundreds of meters away, beyond the melted stump of the flagship's prow, a line of figures drifted nearer. The searchlights questioned them; they were not suited men. Mitch was opening his mouth to yell when the turret fired, 'throwing a raveling skein of sheel bursts across the advancing rank of machines. But more ranks were coming. Men were firing in every direction at machines that came clambering, jetting, drifting, in hundreds. M itch took off from the sally port, moving in diving weightless leaps, touring the outposts, shifting men when the need arose. "Fall back when you have to!" he ordered, on command radio. "Keep them from the sally ports!" His men faced no lurching conscription of mechanized pipefitters and moving welders; these devices were built, in one shape or another, to fight. As he dove between outposts, a thing like a massive chain looped itself to intercept Mitch; he broke it in half with his second shot. A metallic butterfly darted again, and he wasted four shots at it. He found an outpost abandoned, and started back toward the sally port, radioing ahead: "Broom, how is it there?" "Hard to tell, Captain. Squad IF leader, check in again, squad leaders -- " The flying thing darted back; Mitch sliced it with his laser pistol. As he approached the sally port, weapons were flaring all around him. This interior fight was turning into a microcosm of the confused struggle between fleets. He knew that still raged, for the ghostly fingers of heavy weapons still plucked through his armor continually. "Here they come again -- Dog, Easy, Nine-o , clock. ,, Coordinates of an attack straight at the sally port. Mitch found a place to wedge himself, and raised his carbine again. Many of the machines in this wave bore metal diields before them. He fired and reloaded, again and again. The flagship's one usable turret flamed steadily, and an almost continuous line of explosions marched across the machines' ranks in vacuum-silence, along with a traversing searchlight spot. The automatic cannons of the turret were far heavier than the marines' hand weapons; almost anything the cannon hit dissolved in radii of splinters. But suddenly there were machines on the flagship hull, attacking the turret from its blind side. Mitch called out warning, and started in that direction. Then all at once the enemy was around him. Two things caught a nearby man in their crab-like claws, trying to tear him apart between them. Mitch fired quickly at the moving figures and hit the man, blowing one leg off. A moment later one of the crabmachines was knocked away and broken by a hailstorm of shells. The other one beat the armored man to pieces against a jagged girder, and turned to look for its next piece of work. This machine was armored like a warship. It spotted Mitch and came for him, climbing through drifting rubble, shells and slugs rocking it but not crippling. It gleamed in his suit lights, reaching out bright pincers, as he emptied his carbine at the box where its cybernetics should be. H e drew his pistol and dodged, but like a falling cat it turned at him. It caught him by the left hand and the helmet, metal squealing and crunching. He thrust the laser pistol against what he thought was the brainbox, and held the trigger down. He and the machine were drifting, it could get no leverage for its strength. But it held him, working on his armored hand and helmet. Its brainbox, the pistol and tho fingers of his right gauntlet, were glowing hot. Something molten spattered across his faceplate, the glare half-blinding him. The laser burned out, fusing its barrel to the enemy in a glowing weld. His left gauntlet, still caught, was giving way, being crushed --  -- his hand -- Even as his suit's hypos and tourniquet bit him, he got his burned right hand free of the laser's butt and trigger guard and reached the plastic grenades at his belt. His left arm was going wooden, even before the claw released his mangled hand and fumbled slowly for a fresh grip. The machine was shuddering afl o ver, Kke an agonized man. Mitch whipped his right arm around to plaster a grenade on the far side of the brainbox. Then with arms and legs he strained against the crushing, groping claws. His suit-servos whined wkh overload, being overpowered, two seconds, dose eyes, three -- The explosion stunned him. He found himself drifting free. Lights were flaring. Somewhere was a sally port; he had to get there and defend it. His head cleared slowly. He had the feeling that someone was pressing a pair of fingers against his chest. He hoped that was only some reaction from the hand. It was hard to see anything, with his faceplate still half-covered with splashed metal, but at last he spotted the flagship hull. A chunk of something came within reach, and he used k to propel himself toward the sally port, spinning weakly. He dug out a fresh clip of ammunition and then realized his carbine was gone. The space near the sally port was foggy with shattered mechanism; and there were stffl men here, firing their weapons out into the great cavern. Mitch recognized Broom's armor in. the flaring lights, and got a welcoming wave. "Captain! They've knocked out the turret, and most of our searchlights. But we've wrecked an awful lot of 'em -- how's your arm?" "Feels like wood. Got a carbine?" "Say again?" Broom couldn't hear him. Of course, the damned thing had squeezed his helmet and probably wrecked his radio transmitter. He put his helmet against Broom's, and said: "You're in charge. I'm going in. Get back out if I can." Broom was nodding, guiding him watchfully toward the port. Gun flashes started up around them thick and fast again, but there was nothing he could do about that, with two steady dull fingers pressing into his chest. Lightheaded. Get back out? Who was he fooling? Lucky if he got in without help. He went into the port, past the interior guards' niches, and through an airlock. A medic took one look and came to help him. N ot dead yet, he thought, aware of people and lights around him. There was something else to notice, too; he felt no more ghostly plucking of space-bending weapons. Then he understood that he was being wheeled out of surgery, and that people hurrying by had triumph in their faces. He was still too groggy to frame a coherent question, but words he heard seemed to mean that another ship had joined in the attack on this berserker. That was a good sign, that there were spare ships around. The stretcher bearers set him down near the bridge, in an area that was being used as a recovery room; there were many wounded, strapped down and given breathing tubes against possible failure of gravity or air. Mitch could see signs of battle damage around him. How could that be, this far inside the ihip. The sally ports had been held. There was a long gravitic shudder. "They've disengaged her," said someone nearby. Mitch passed out for a little while. The next thing he could see was that people were converging on the bridge from all directions. Their faces were happy and wondering, as if some joyful signal had called them. Many of them carried what seemed to Mitch the strangest assortment of burdens : weapons, books, helmets, bandages, trays of food, bottles, even bewildered children, who must have been just rescued from the berserker's grip. Mitch hitched himself up on his right elbow, ignoring the twinges in his bandaged chest and burnt fingers. Still he could not see the combat chairs of the bridge, for the people moving between. From all the corridors of the ship they came, solemnly happy, men and women crowding together in the brightening lights. An hour or so later, Mitch roused to find that a viewing sphere had been set up nearby. The space where the battle had been was a jagged new nebula of gaseous metal, a few little fireplace coals against the ebony folds of the Stone Place. Someone near Mitch was tiredly, but with animation, telling the story to a recorder: " -- fifteen ships and about eight thousand men lost are our present count. Every one of our ships seems to be damaged. We estimate ninety -- that's nine-zero -- berserkers destroyed. Last count was a hundred and seventy-six captured, or wrecking themselves. It's still hard to believe. A day like this... we must remember that thirty or more of them escaped, and are as deadly as ever. We will have to go on hunting and fighting them for a long time, but their power as a fleet has been broken. We can hope that capturing this many machines will at last give us some definite lead on their origin. Ah, best of all, some twelve thousand human prisoners have been freed. "Now, how to explain our success? Those of us not Believers of one kind or another will say victory came because our hulls were newer and stronger, our long-range weapons new and superior, our tactics unexpected by the enemy -- and our marines able to defeat anything the berserkers could send against them. "Above all, history will give credit to High Commander Karlsen, for his decision to attack, at a time when his reconciliation with the Venerians had inspired and united the fleet The High Commander is here now, visiting the wounded who lie in rows... K arlsen's movements were so slow and tired that Mitch thought he too might be wounded, though no bandages were visible. He shuffled past the ranked stretchers, with a word or nod for each of the wounded. Beside Mitch's pallet he stopped, as if recognition was a shock. "She's dead. Poet," were the first words he said. The ship turned under Mitch for #f a moment; then he could be calm, as if he had expected to hear this. The battle had hollowed him out Karlsen was telling him, in a withered voice, how the enemy had forced through the flagship's hull a kind of torpedo, an infernal machine that seemed to know how the rtiip was designed, a moving atomic pile that had burned its way through the High Commander's quarters and almost to the bridge before it could be stopped and quenched. The sight of battle damage here should have warned Mitch. But he hadn't thought. Shock and drugs kept him from thinking or feeling much of anything now, but he could see her face, looking as it had in the gray deadly place from which he had rescued her. Rescued. I am a weak and foolish man," Karlsen was saying. "But I have never been your enemy. Are you mine?" "No. You forgave all your enemies. Got rid of them. Now you won't have any, for a while. Galactic hero. But, I don't envy you." "No. God rest her." But Karlsen's face was still alive, under all the grief and weariness. Only death oould finally crush this man. He gave the ghost of a smile. "And, the second part of the prophecy, eh? I am to be defeated, and to die owning nothing. As if a man could die any other way." "Karlsen, you're all right. I think you may survive your own success. Die in peace, some day, still hoping for your Believers' heaven." "The day I die -- " Karlsen turned his head slowly. "I'll remember this day. This glory, this victory for aU men." Under the weariness and grief he had still his tremendous assurance -- not of being right, Mitch thought now, but of being committed to right. "Poet, when you are able, come and work for me." "Someday, maybe. Now, I can live on the battle bounty. And I have work. If they can't grow back my hand -- why, I can write with one." Mitch was suddenly very tired. A hand touched his good shoulder; a voice said; "God be with you. Johann Karlsen moved on. Mitch wanted only to rest. Then, to his work. The world was bad, and all men were fools -- but there were men who would not be crushed. And that was a thing worth f Two Classic in One Boole I by Theodore Sturgeon f in Galaxy Magabook ## -- on sale at your newsstand soonl  IF IF  Short Stor # His rendezvous was with a man he had not seen in half a human life -- and with something else i W arhurst leaned on a tubular rail and watched the passengers boarding the ship. This was one of his favorite occupations, there being nothing more sinful available. Nice to see a change of faces once in a while. Nicer still to see an occasional female one as reminder of the fact that the human race is not an all-male society. And, anyway, he liked to speculate about who these people were and what particular talents they possessed and why they were going wherever they were going. Up the duralumin gangway they came, the fat and the thin, the short and the tall. The majority were men in their twenties or thirties. Advenliness and beat an existence out of alien soil. Fodder for the faraway. Among them might be a criminal or two as well as a few misanthropes. One man, a little balding and slightly older than the rest, wore a calm, phlegmatic air. Warhurst weighed him up as some kind of scientist or maybe a doctor. The three girls following immediately behind had a brisk, professional manner and might be nurses. There was a serious shortage of doctors and nurses out there. Van Someren joined him at the rail, draped himself over it and gazed down. He was the ship's agent and, as the local representative of the owner, was entitled to enough respect to avoid a charge of mutiny. Chewing a splinter erf wood, he watched the ascending passengers as if seeking the one escaping with the green eye of the little yellow god. After a while he removed the splinter, straightened himself and spoke. "Take a look at Methuselah." Obediently Warhurst took a look. A gangling and skinny oldster was coming aboard dragging a large and badly battered case. A ship's loader tried to lend a hand with the case. The ancient repelled him fiercely with emphatic but unbearable words. Defiantly he lugged the case upward. His face became more visible as it neared: it was complete with two eyes, a nose and a pure white Fancy Dan mustache. The eyes were rheumy but shrewd, the nose was suffering from battle fatigue but still breathing. "Eighty if a day," said Warhurst. "They must be scraping the bottom of the barrel." "He's all yours," said Van Someren. "What d'you mean, all mine?" "You're the deck officer. He's a privileged passenger. Count it up on your fingers." # # Teepers! Is he a trig stockholder or something?" "As far as I know he isn't worth a cent. All I can say is that I have my orders and those are to teH you Harlow and that he's a privileged passenger. I am further instructed to state with suitable emphasis that you will be held personally responsible for his safe arrival and that if you fail in this duty your offal will be required for feeding to the vultures." "Nuts to that," said Warhurst. "If he's a chronic invalid he belongs to the ship's medic." "Since when have invalids been toted into the wilds?" "There has to be a first time," Warhurst protested. "Well, this ain't it. He's not a sick man as far as I know. They wouldn't ship him if he were." "I should think so, too. We've no geriatric ward on this vessel." "There's no psychiatric one either but they let you zoom around." Van Someren smirked triumphantly, had a brief chew on his hunk of wood, then diagnosed, "I know what's the matter with you. You've figured on squiring those three dames around -- on company time and with full pay." "No harm in that, is there?" "I wouldn't know, never having experienced your in-flight technique. But orders are orders and you obey them or walk the plank into sharkinfested seas. The owners say you're to nursemaid this Harlow relic. Think of him as your poor old father and treat him with filial care." "Get out of my sight, you darned woodpecker," said Warhurst. "All right, all right, have it your IF #wn way." Van Someren smirked igain and wandered off. Leaving the rail, Warhurst went below, pushed through a group of passengers cluttering a narrow corridor, found his man standing firmly astride his big case. He went up lo him. "Mr. Harlow?" "Correct. Who told you?" "It's my business to know these Aings. I'm Steve Warhurst." "That's a heck of a coincidence." "What is?" "That being your name. Could easily have been anything else, Joe Snape, Theophilus Bagley or whatever. But it had to be... what did you say?" "Steve Warhurst. I'm the deck officer." "That so? What do you do for a crust?" "I look after the welfare of the passengers," explained Warhurst, patiently. "Man, you've got it made," said Harlow. iiT do plenty of other things," X Warhurst persisted, not liking the insinuation. "Taking care of the human ioad is only one of my jobs." "I should think so, too. You're wearing enough gold to be worth mining." Harlow let his watery, yellow-tinged eyes examine the passengers within visual range. "Real bunch of sissies. In my young days they needed no fancy-pants deck officers. A man climbed aboard and strapped himself down good and tight. If a strap busted he got an eye knocked out." "Things have changed," Warhurst reminded. "So I've heard." "Nobody has to be mummywrapped or encapsulated. We've got null-G. You'll float like a feather as we rise. When the siren yowls we'll both go up without the aid of nets." "Human race is getting soft," opined Mr. Harlow. "I'd like to see your transit voucher." Warhurst prompted. "What for?" "It records your cabin number. I'll take you to it." "Listen," ordered Harlow, baring a set of beaten-up teeth, "I know my cabin number and I'm capable of reaching it under my own steam." "I wasn't suggesting wheeling you there. I merely want to show you where it is." "Show me?" Harlow registered incredulity. "Let me tell you I've found my way through places that'd give you the holy horrors. I don't need any snub-nosed kid to tell me which way to go." "No offense," soothed Warhurst. "How about me helping you with your case?" "Sooot!" bawled Harlow. First Officer Winterton, who happened to be passing, stopped and asked, "Is something wrong?" "This gilded cutie," informed Harlow, nodding at Warhurst, "thinks I'm a cripple." "I offered to help with his case," explained Warhurst. "There you are -- what did I tell you?" said Harlow. "It was quite proper of him," Winterton assured Harlow. "Mr. Warhurst is the ship's host so far as the passengers are concerned." "Then why doesn't he pick on the others? Some of 'em are making ready to faint." "Why didn't you?" Winterton asked Warhurst, secretly beginning to regret his intervention. "The agent said he was a P.P." H arlow let go his grip on his case, grabbed Warhurst's tie, pulled its knot to quarter size and growled, "if you want to call me names cafl 'em proper, as main to man." "A P.P. is a privileged passenger," said Warhurst, fighting for breath. "Privileged?" He let go the tie, irritated and baffled. "Never asked for a privilege in my life and I'm not starting now." "You don't have to ask. The status is thrust upon you." "Why?" "How the devil should I know why?" retorted Warhurst, feeling far from jovial himself. He freed his neck and pumped oxygen. "I get orders and I don't question the reasons for them." "There aren't any reasons," Harlow informed. "Some jerk of a clerk must have got things mixed up. Is there a big shot named Barlow on board?" "No." "Can't be him then, can it? Not if he isn't here. Anyway, nobody's going to coddle me, see? Prize fool I'd look being baby-sitted by some young squirt dolled up like a Christmas tree." "The young squirt," Winterton pointed out, "happens to be fortytwo years old and has twenty years of space service behind him." "Just as I thought," said Harlow. "Still wet behind the ears and got plenty to learn. I could eat six like him before breakfast and still be afl set for a real feed." He gripped his case and heaved it off the floor, his fingers thin and veined, with knuckles like knobs. "You decorated dummies go and prop up the staggerers. I can fend for myself," he grunted. Case in hand, he went along the corridor and peered at the number on each cabin door. His pace was slow, laborious. Turning the end corner, he passed from sight. "Awkward customer, huh?" said Warhurst. "A savage old-timer," decided Winterton. "Aren't many of them left these days. Wonder why he's been rated a P.P. The last one I came across was a retired employee. Been fifty years with the company. They gave him free passage to Earth along with the full treatment." "We're not heading for home," said Warhurst. "Yeah, I know. We're making for six underpopulated underdeveloped planets reserved exclusively for the young and healthy. The powersthatbe seem to have made an exception for this Harlow character. I can't imagine why." "Maybe he's not fit to live with so they're isolating him in the nevernever." "Oh, he's not that bad." "I know," said Warhurst. "I was only kidding." T hey were four days out before Warhurst renewed the encounter. He'd been kept busy awhile on various matters that always crowded up immediately after departure or shortly before arrival. The interim period was the time when he could pay more attention to social duties. In dress uniform, with face closely shaved and pants pressed, he went to the lounge all set to play the part of guide, companion and father confessor to any lonely hearts who might be moping around. It was a job that had endless possibilities none of which ever came to anything. As he expressed it in his more complaining moments, whenever the basket of fruit was being handed around he invariably got the lemon. And again it was so. The feminine portion of the ship's load obviously was neither solitary nor bored. There was a clinking of glasses and a steady babble of conversation and no sweet face was visibly yearning for his company. Only old Harlow sat by himself, hunched in a corner behind a small and empty table. With a shrug of resignation Warhurst crossed the lounge, said, "Mind if I sit here?" "I can suffer it. Had plenty of worse things happen to me." "You seem to have survived," said Warhurst, offering a wary smile. "What comes of pulling my head in every time the chopper fell." Harlow inspected him with faint disapproval. "Done yourself up for Sunday, huh? How oome you're picking on me? Those girls refuse to be fascinated?" "The ladies are being entertained, as you can see." "Good thing, too. Keep 'em out of mischief." He glowered across the room and muttered something under his breath. Then he informed, "Soon as I came in one of 'em put on a sloppy smile and said, 'Hello, Pop!' Must think I'm a penny balloon or something. Pop! Put her in her place, I did. Told her my name is Bill and not to forget it." "Mind if I call you Bill?" "Call me any durned thing you like so long as it ain't Pop." "Same with me. I don't care what I'm called so long as it isn't a gilded cutie or a snub-nosed kid." "Oh, well, fair's fair, I guess." "You can call me Steve." "Knew a fellow of that name once. Went into Reedstar and never came out. Tough luck -- but that's the way it is." "The way what is?" # #T ife," said Harlow. "TheyL' come and they go and some never come back." Warhurst changed the subject "Care to have a drink with me?" "Depends. Wouldn't give belly room to all this cocktail muck. Strictly for women that stuff is. Hammerhead juice is the only thing fit to drink and they don't know what it is these days. Human race is going down the drain." "Leave it to me." Warhurst got up and went to the bar. "Joe, the old fellow I'm with likes a blowtorch pointed down his gullet. Says there's nothing like hammerhead juice. What have you got that he might consider a few cuts above goat's milk?" With narrowed eyes Joe gazed across the lounge and studied Harlow. He seemed to be struggling with a problem. Finally he bent under the counter and came up with a bottle and poured a measure of green, oily liquid. "This should be diluted with gin. He's getting it raw. Comes as near as it can get to being unfit for human consumption. Same for you?" "No, sir. Got to think of the fire hazard. I'll have a shot of crewrum, official issue." Joe served that too, leaned over the bar and whispered, "Know who that old dodderer is?" "No. Do you?" "No." "Then we're back where we started." "Listen," urged Joe, "and I'll tell you something. I've been at this job as long as you've been at yours. I've never seen hammerhead juice and nobody's ever asked for it and I haven't got any." "It's just his figure of speech," suggested Warhurst. "He means some kind of rotgut." "Listen," ordered Joe for the second time. "I've never seen the stuff but I have heard of it. My father used to mention it when he conned me into growing up and following him into the space service. According to him only one bunch ever asked for it and had the intestinal fortitude to beat it into submission." He paused to give a wellcalculated touch of drama, finished, "The Legion of Planetary Scouts." "It adds up," said Warhurst impassively. Picking up the drinks, he took them across, carefully placed them on the table. He sat down and looked at Harlow. "In the long ago those drinks would have been two tantalising globules floating around in mid-air. We'd have had to swim after them, gulping like goldfish. But now we can lay gravity on the floor like a carpet or roll it up and hide H in the attic when we don't want it. Things have changed. I told you that before, didn't I?" "You did." # #TT #eh, I apologize for doing so.  V I took it for granted that you hadn't been on a ship in yean -- and you said nothing to disillusion me. I was wrong." "How have you figured k out?" asked Harlow, eyeing him carefully. Warhurst jerked a thumb toward the bar. "Joe there says nobody but planetary scouts ever asked foe hammerhead juice." "Fat lot he knows about it. He's not old enough to remember." "His father told him." "That so? Maybe he was right I dunno." "You do know," Warhurst insisted. "I think you've been a planetary scout and that you may be one of the last of the original legion." IP "There'll never be a last, not so long as photographic reconnaisance Isn't enough and somebody has to trudge on foot to see what's under the mist and the trees." Harlow gulped his drink, clamped his eyes shut and gripped the rim of the table. Then he opened the eyes, let out a brief gasp and said, "Not bad for cough medicine. Gives a feller a slight jolt." "Joe thinks it verges on cyanide." "He would. They're weak at the knees these days." "See here, Bill, tell me something. When were you last on a ship?" "Couple of years ago." "A passenger liner?" "No -- it was a government survey ship." "With null-G?" "You bet," said Harlow emphatically. "Couldn't have gone the distance otherwise. Even at that it took plenty long enough to return to base." "How long?" "What's it to you?" "Nothing at all," admitted Warhurst. "I'm just plain nosey. How long did it take?" "Fourteen years," informed Harlow with some reluctance. W arhurst rocked back. "Fourteen? Ye gods! Any G-less ship using up that much time must have been out to the very edge of exploration." "That's right. Fourteen out and fourteen back. And I was stuck there for eight years as well, given up for lost. That makes thirty-six in all. A slice out of a man's life." He took a good suck at his drink, repeated the eye-closing and tablegripping business, said, "Hah!" and then finished, "After which I had a fight on my hands." "Over what?" "Feller called me a liar." "Didn't he believe you'd been gone that long?" "He believed it all right. Couldn't deny the facts. Made a long, oily speech about the time I'd put in and the immense value of the reports I'd made. Real greasy type he was, with medals and badges and gold rings on his sleeves and a fancied-up cap like yours. Buttered me all over -- and then called me a liar." "Why?" "Said that around the time I had left -- which was before he was born -- I'd not told the truth about my age and that he had the documentary evidence to prove it. Said I should never have been sent out in the first place and that it was a damned disgrace." "Had you told the truth?" Warhurst pressed. "Didn't tell a lie," Harlow evaded. "Told 'em I was plenty young enough to go ten times round the galaxy." "And were you?" "Yes, sir! I still am." Harlow scowled at the floor. "This pudding-headed pipsqueak wasn't buying that. Said I was far too old for further service and that I'd be given free passage back to Terra. Durn it, I'm only eighty-eight and that's me, bang, slap, finish. A dead dog. I got riled. Terra, I yelled, Terra? Haven't seen the place in nearly seventy years and don't know a soul there. What's on Terra for me? Nothing! If you're exporting the garbage you can ship me to Kangshan. At least I've got an old partner there." "What did he say to that?" "Wouldn't look me straight in the eyes. Muttered something about how Kangshan was strictly for characters a lot younger than me. Said he didn't think they'd have me there even if he got down on his knees and begged." "You had an answer to that one, I guess?" # # Cure did. Told him he wasn't O old enough to speak for others. Told him to signal Kangshan and ask if they'd take me." "Which I presume he did." "Must have done, though he took long enough about it. Eventually another official nincompoop handed me my sailing orders and made another oily speech. I tell you, Warble -- " "Warhurst. Steve Warhurst." "I tell you if brass-hat gab could be boosted through tubes we'd all be way out beyond. Seems more talk than action these days. Human race is losing its capacity to suffer." "I wouldn't say that. Bill. Things done the hard way aren't necessarily done better. Nor are they done badly because done the easy way. The essence of progress consists of finding ways of avoiding oldtime difficulties." "That may be, bat -- " Harlow paused, mused  short while, ventured, "Well, maybe I'm not as young as I used to be. But that doesn't make me a dead dog, does it?" "Not at all." "Kangshan doesn't think so." "You say you've got a partner there?" "Yes, Jim Lacey. He's all I've got in creation. No scout operates alone except by accident. They go places in small bunches or often in pairs. You fellows who zoom around in shiploads don't know what partnership really means. A man's sidekick is his only contact with the human race when the rest of it is other brain to help solve problems, another pair of hands to work and fight. With each other a couple of trouble-seekers can get by in circumstances where if alone they'd go nuts. So I'm telling you that in faraway places partnership is something very special." "I can well imagine," said Warhurst. "Lacey was my first and longest space-partner. We were born in the same town, lived on the same street, went to the same schools and eventually joined the service together. We were dropped into some hot spots and shared the grief when things became rough and tough. Now I'm going to Kangshan. I promised I'd meet him there." "After best part of forty years he wouldn't figure on seeing you again, would he?" With a stubborn set to his jaw, Harlow repeated, "I said I'd meet IF him and that's all that matters." He stood up, a little creakily, "My turn. Same again?" Warhurst nodded. Taking the empty glasses, Harlow carried them to the bar. "A crew-rum and another shot of that green hair oil." to be sociable. Harlow hammered on the bar and bawled, "Don't call me Pop, you bottle-juggling ape! I could outmarch you with a ninety-pound pack and then do a tap dance." Grabbing the drinks, he brought them back, seated himself and snarled, "Booze-slingers in space. They'll be organizing beauty contests next. Human race is on die skids." "Here's to the old days," said Warhurst. He drank, wobbled his Adam's apple, closed his eyes and held on tight. "For a beginner you show promise, Wharton." "Warhurst, if you don't mind." r here was the inevitable spell of rushed work before the landing but Warhurst got through it in good time and stationed himself at the head of the gangway. The formality was always the same; as each passenger began the descent Warhurst put on his most cordial smile and speeded the parting guest with a word of good cheer. "Hope you've enjoyed your trip, Mr. Soandso. Good-by! Best of luck!" Harlow came last, having listened to the swan song a dozen times while waiting beside his big case. Heaving the case forward, he stopped at the top of the steps. "Why don't they tape it and save you the bother? Thought you said there's nothing wrong with doing things the easy way." "Passengers like the personal touch." "They would. Mothers' pets. Think they're mighty tough but I could beat 'em away with my hat." His watery eyes gazed across the primitive spaceport and into the far distance. "Last landing for me. Just as well, I reckon. Got to come sometime and it might as well be now." Warhurst held out a hand. "Goodby, Bill. Glad to have known you." Giving the hand a couple of prim shakes, Harlow responded with, "We got along, Warburton." Then he lugged his case down the steps and across the tarmac. A big, beefy man met him, chatted briefly, tried to take the case and was fiercely repelled. The big man then led him to a private floater and climbed aboard. Harlow got his case in and followed. A few seconds later the floater emitted a high-pitched whine, shuddered a couple of times, then soared. Heading swiftly northward, it diminished to a dot and vanished. Winterton appeared at the exit, said with satisfaction, "All off. That's got rid of another menagerie." "I often wonder just what happens to them," Warhurst ventured. "I don't," said Winterton. "Couldn't care less. Got more than enough to worry about." Soon afterward the ship took off and headed back to base with little load aboard. Outward cargo was always plentiful, inward usually small. All they took out of Kangshan was ten tons of osmiridium and two passenger. T k he ship made six relatively short hauls from base and one long run to Terra. Then it arrived at Kangshan again. Three years had passed since its last visit but the scene had changed only slightly. The spaceport was now a fraction larger and had a new control tower. The adjacent capital town of Wingbury had added a couple of hundred houses and that was all. Winterton came along and asked, "Want to go out?" "Who wouldn't?" responded Warhurst. "Aren't we beating it yet?" "The refinery says it can boost the return load if we'll wait four days. The agent says we're to stand by and take it. Anyone who wants to run around on solid earth can do so." He waved an arm in the general direction of Wingbury. "Go help yourself." "Thanks," said Warhurst. "Nine thousand population and one sodabar." "You don't have to go." "I'll go. Give my legs some exercise if nothing else." Donning his dress uniform, he went into town. He'd been there a couple of times before and knew what to expect. One main street with forty quiet, understocked shops. It was a settlement right on the space frontier, growing and developing with chronic slowness. One could not expect the sophisticated joys of civilization on a planet with two small towns, thirty villages and a total population of less than fifty thousands. He strolled ten times up and down the main street and stared into the half-empty windows of shops. Becoming bored, he visited the sodabar, took a stool near to the only other customer, a leathery-faced character in his early thirties. The customer nodded. "Hi, sailor! What ship?" " Salamander ." "Should have known she was due. I lose touch these days, being well out of town. When are they going to start sending the really big boats?" "Darned if I know." The other nodded again, mused a bit, went on, "Hard luck on you fellows. Nothing for you here. Progress takes time. But things will be different if you can live long enough to see 'em." "I know," said Warhurst. "Got no relatives here, no friends, nobody you can visit?" "Not a soul." "Too bad." "I palled on with a fellow who landed on the last trip, three years ago. Wouldn't mind seeing how he's making out." "Well, what's to stop you?" "Lost track of him," Warhurst explained. "Saw him off the ship and don't know where he went." T he other twisted around on his stool and pointed across the road. "Try the governmental building over there, department of imIF migration. They register every arrival and should be able to tell you where he is." "Thanks!" Finishing his drink, Warhurst crossed the road, entered the building and found the department on the second floor. He spoke to the young clerk behind the counter. "I'm trying to trace a recent immigrant." "Date of arrival and full name?" Warhurst gave the information. Digging out a ledger, the clerk thumbed through it, asked, "Ex the Salamander?" "Yes, that's my ship." "Exempted from age restriction. Taken into the charge of Joseph Buhl. I don't know what -- " Another clerk standing nearby interrupted with, "Buhl? I saw Joe Buhl a couple of minutes ago. He went up the road as I was looking through the window." "He's your man," informed the first clerk. "You should have no trouble finding him." He extracted a register and consulted it. "His floater is numbered D#. You'll find it in the park alongside the spaceport." "What does he look like?" "As tall as you but a lot heavier. Has a slight paunch, big red face and bushy eyebrows." "I'll track him down," Warhurst said. "It'll give me something to do." Trudging back to the spaceport, he reached the floaterpark and found machine D#. He sat on the fat tire of a landing wheel and waited. There were twelve other floaters in the park. Far across the tarmac stood only one spaceship, his own, waiting for its promised payload. After forty minutes a hefty, floridfaced man approached. Warhurst came to his feet. "Mr. Buhl?" "That's right." "Thought I'd like to see Bill Harlow. I've been told that you should know where he is." Buhl studied him levelly. "Got bad news for you." "Is he -- ?" "Died a year ago, aged ninety." "I'm sorry to hear that." "You an old friend of his?" Buhl inquired. "Couldn't be, having only half his years. I kept him company on the last trip. Took a liking to the cantankerous old cuss and he seemed to find me bearable." "I understand. Why did you figure on looking him up -- got some time on your hands?" "A bit." "Well, maybe I can fill it in for you, mister -- ?" "Steve Warhurst." "I'll give you a ride and show you something migjhty interesting." B uhl unlocked the floater's door and motioned the other to enter. Warhurst got in and settled himself. Buhl plumped heavily into the pilot's seat, slammed the door, took the machine up and turned its nose to the north. "Know much about this planet?" "Not a lot," Warhurst confessed. "There are so many newly settled worlds these days that we space wanderers get to learn little about any of them. On eadh planet the spaceport and adjacent town is about all we're familiar with." "Then I'll educaite you somewhat, " Buhl said. "This planet was discovered by a survey ship called the Kangshan and its captain named it after his ship. He made the usual aerial survey but -- as is always the oase -- it wasn't enough. He came down low to test the atmosphere and found it satisfactory. So he dumped a couple of scouts and took off, leaving them to face a forty days' survival test." "Bait," Warhurst contributed. "Correct. Scouts are bait.' That's what they're for -- among other things." Buhl gazed meditatively forward while the floater hissed steadily on. "The two were Jim Lacey and Bill Harlow." "Ah! I never knew that." "You know now. They tramped around looking for exploitable prospects -- and trouble. Eventually they arrived at a big quartzite monolith known today as The Needle. Mineral-rich mountains lay to the west, a big river and falls to the east. Time was pressing. Guess what?" "They split," Warhurst hazarded. "Correct. They broke the rules and split up. It was no crime but it was a risk. Harlow headed west and Lacey went east They agreed to meet at The Needle four days later. Harlow returned on time lugging a load of stuff for assay. He camped at The Needle for a couple of days and then went looking for Lacey. He found him near the river, dead." "Huh?" Warhurst looked baffled. "The old fellow talked as if Lacey were still alive." "He would," said Buhl. "That's the way these oldtimers were made." He dropped the floater's nose and began to lose altitude. "Lacey had had his feet bitten off by a mudwallower. He'd blasted it as he fell and thus didn't get eaten. But then he went under from loss of blood. Harlow buried him, marked the grave, examined the wallower and made careful notes about it. In due time the Kangshan homed on his tiny beacon and picked him up. The planet was settled on the strength of his report and wallowers have since been hunted down and exterminated." # # T T arlow didn't say a word A A about all this," complained Warhurst. "Typical of him. If he bragged it was always about how he could keep going long after us softer types had dropped." Buhl pointed downward. A wide river now wound beneath with a monster cascade straight ahead. "Lacey Falls." Turning away from the river he brought the floater down to twenty feet above a rough dirt road. He followed the road for a few miles until a small town rolled into sight. "Look to your right." Obediently, Warhurst looked and was in time to see a large roadside "Named after him, eh?" "That's right. I'm the mayor. We IF gave him a home, comfort and companionship in his last days. It was all we could do for him." "I'm glad of that." "Wasn't much use, though. He'd been kept alive beyond his years by change, actvity and danger. He was killed by leisure and safety. There was no solution to the problem and he knew it. Often he'd leave town, walk out to The Needle and brood." "Why?" "Because he'd told Laoey he'd meet him there. He never forgot it It became an obsession towards the end. His last words were, 'I told Jim I'd meet him." They crossed the town, landed at the base of an enormous quartzite rock. They got out and stared up at it lit soared for two hundred feet, the facets of its crystals glittering in the sun. "The Needle," informed BuhL "It's not unique. There are other formations like it. We dug up' Lacey's bones and buried them here. We buried Harlow with them." He led the way around to the front of The Needle. A plain, unadorned grave lay at its foot. On the face of the rock a skilled mason had polished a square yard of crystal and cut a neat inscription thereon. All it said was: James Lacey and by Frank HeHsort i Author of Under Pressure, Dun by KaHb Loumor (Author of Tho Croat Timo Modbfa. Noox oarf lb. KotM stortoo) by Gordon k. Dickson (Author of Dorsad , On Messenger M om fain, etc,) -- and many other fine stories are in the April Galaxy -- on sale now! IF # Short Story He knew he was being automated out of a job -- but he didn't know what ebel tory No. # TO: Control Board Chairman, World Factory Central Bottleneck here in assembly circuit #. Please advice. GM-F# World Factory Central TO: General Management, Factory No. # Switch in Department of V ariablesDetection at once. Program all bottleneck communications data for possible human screening by Federal Automation  Planned Leisure Administration. Relay all audiovisio tapes, including retroactive data, pertaining to bottleneck. TO: Control Board Chairman, World Factory Central Oct. # occured mass liberation from boring, dehumanizing drudgery when Computor  Assembly No. # installed in our little Factory. # employees liberated. Only three left. J. W. Chadwick in charge of Personnel. And his staff, Lewis and Steiner, automated system engineers overseeing Control Room, retained in accordance with #: "If one man required in a department, two must be kept on in case one sickens or dies." But Chadwick, an executive immune to Union regulation, remained in #th floor Personnel Office in lonely isolation, a condition known to shortcircuit human systems. Lewis and Steiner needed in Control Room for occasional correction of an instrument, or to take over some operational responsibility in case of emergency. But mechanical operations become self-repairing. emergencies anticipated, replacements and self-repairs taken in advance. So Lewis and Steiner grow obsolete. Rights BiU, every means of slowing down inevitable progression is taken. Customary adaptations made to limited human capacity: Control Panel held down to levels of human manipulation and designed to bring Factory's materials and energy flow pattern within comprehension of human supervision. Thousands of instruments forced into ever smaller compact arrangements in a flow diagram, etc. But Panel still must grow too vast for human perception, must reflect unit processes, analogue controllers, each governing an aspect of Factory's continuous process. Factory must cease compromising with human inefficiency. All manual control switches over to automatic. Crucial Factory improvements no longer checked by human supervision inadequacies. Room cell. It is instructed, and it supervises all automatic control, performs all logical operations. It is programmed for emergency reactions. Given usual set of criteria for appraising relative successes of various acts, it can then alter own programmed instructions based on experience and find performance operations superior to those prescribed in original instructions. All Factory processes now communicated didepartment control machines and processed on the spot, making all ditplay panels and control devises designed for human use unnecessary. All such panels and control devises are removed. Instability, inconsistency, unpredictable human elements eliminated from ckcuits. At this progressive stage point, Lewis and Steiner are totally useless. Repeat, no doubt erf Lewis and Steiner obsolescence. But bottleneck exists. Release data on Lewis and Steiner was sent up to Chadwick, Department of Personnel But no return release voucher yet received from Personnel. Block and drag appear in circuit #. Later. Revise. Voucher just in from Personnel, releasing Lewis, but no mention of Steiner! Repeat, no release voucher for Steiner. GM-F# World Factory Central TO: General Management, Faotory # Continue Variables-Detec tion Trace. Continue liberation rites as if no Steiner error exists. TO: Control Board Chairman, World Factory Central Lewis waits in great emptied Control Room looking at intercom box, only remaining gadget for human use. Steiner sits many hours by intercom. They both wait for Management's liberation speech which finally thunders through vast control room. "Another happy release blesses our Factory, liberation burdens of industrial production. Ed Lewis, Management presents you with this end product of your engineering skills raised to exquisite efficiency by your Factory: a perpetual motion, self-repairing, molybdhxm alloy watch!" ing up, buddy. Two gift watches appear on conveyor belt. Steiner's liberation speech never comes, nor does Steiner's release card appear. foulup. buddy. Relax. Steiner waits and stares at the blank wall that recently glowed with # feet of control panel. He begins punching intercom box frantically, alternating whispers with anxious exclamations. find the Manager! Later. Just before Lewis' scheduled departure from Factory. Steiner is punching intercom box. somebody, Ed, wait! Mosby late at the gate, got stuck three . more months getting a new clearance pass-key card. I got to be on schedule. card. What if there's an emergency and nobody's here? you know that's again Union law. to come through soon. Relax. wife if you're near her playgroup. now. Later. Still no release voucher for Steiner, Self-regulative control circuits proceed as if no error existed. Awaiting directive from Department of Random Adaptations to program alterations. If original programming is not altered soon to allow for Steiner's presence, his position grows rapidly fatal. GM-F# World Factory Central TO: Management, Factory # Local adaptations compound general error. Random adaptations to Steiner's presence in Factory would derange key governors and stabilizers throughout entire Factory alliance network. Long range plans now programmed for future must not be compromised. Factory produces components necessary for production of consumer goods for vast multitudes. Steiner is only one man. Continue probe. Concentrate on Circuit #, Relays #-#, Personnel Department, J. W. Chadwick in charge. Any remaining manual department is suspect, a potential bottleneck. Relay all info on Chadwick. TO: Control Board Chairman, World Factory Central M IF Chadwick, J. W. Code #-#-#. Age #. Factory's oldest disciple. Majored in Automated Control Systems. Specialized in non-linear systems, matters related to probability theory and statistics, new mathematics associated with sampling and handling of discontinuous data and numbers theories. Came directly from University to Factory # as on-job trainee. Two children, both raised in Planned Leisure Centers. Wife recently left him for permanent joy of full-time leisure. Chadwick helped design and install personnel tabulator-comp utor ployees in Department of Personnel. Records once kept on # cards # onto a mere # reels of tape. Chadwick put in full charge and control of codification and upkeep Loyal comp any man. Recent reports indicate, according to Monitor, that Chadwick has spent more and more of his increased leisure time, not enjoying planned play, but locked in Factory # personnel office. Sixty days ago, his work week reduced again from # to I hour # to # aun. Mondays. But retroactive checks from Monitor show he's wasted up to # hours weekly in office isolation, usually incommunicado. Monitor reports he's often stayed in office overnight, sometimes for several consecutive days. Food, drink brought in an attache case. (Note: all retroactive data from Monitor, from audo-viso tapes of all inner-factory processes, through reprocessing of automated badge-reader at Exit Gate-#, and Elevator#, etc., which Chadwick must use to enter and leave archaic office on Administration's I #th floor. All info magnetically filed for immediate verifications by Federal Automation  Planned Leisure Administration. Retroactive tape on Chadwick. This is before Lewis-Steiner found obsolete. Conversation between Chadwick and Mrs. Chadwick who calls from Chadwick apartment at Factory #'s lovely new Sunnyvale retirement tract, Sun City. dear. No more irritating calls. posed to mean? tired last week. He and Janie signed into Permanent Recreation Poo! #. Our last friendly neighbors, remember. Everybody's in a playgroup sunning and framing but us. So your wife's here just about solo #hours a day, in case you haven't noticed. But don't worry. I'm not going crackers. You won't hear that dirty word, loneliness again either, not from me. Go on using your leisure time making sacrificial rites to the dead old Factory -- there, hold on. now. I just want to know, dear, what can you do all week in an office where you're supposed to spend an hour? Pm around when an emergency cornea. sr auyway. Watched all our friends go into the Games. Rut rm not waiting for you any longer. I just saw the Games Master. the old buddies. Mrs. Chadwick cuts off the connection. Chadwick calls apartment repeatedly, always receives same taped reply from mechanical answering service. His last call registered by Monitor: Lara. ger at this number. She has joined the Games. Messages for Mrs. Chadwick may be left with the Games Master, HI #-#. Mrs. Chadwick is no longer at this number, she has joined the -- Lara. Games Master -- leisure's Elysian Fields. Chadwick severs connection, paces Office, opens another fifth of bourbon, sits on floor and drinks steadily, finally sleeps. Retroactive tapes reveal Chadwick spent much time alone drinking m the dark. Audio-taped dialogue. Steiner and Chadwick on Factory intercom. some emergency. left in Control Room and what if there were? Thousands of control units going at once. Hell, I can't use a nerve more than # times a second. This thing's ahead of us, friend, by a speed factor of at least #, and going faster every second. Speed levels -- temperature down here -- don't you realize -- just the same. you see I'm supposed to be checked out. stand by. Union rules must have been changed. Look, I just incode, decode data for the tabulator up here. I punch cards. I don't make decisions. I haven't seen a Manager in months. Anyway, I'm telling you, you're lucky to stay on. thing? producing important things, Steiner, doing something useful. And you're still part of it -- belong here now. Later. dark. I find where light switch was, now it's just a smooth wall. I find where the fuse box was -- nothing. Wall's all been rebuilt while I was dozing. What's the matter, Chadwick? Nothing to say? Try your computor... , well, it's like I been telling you, I'm not supposed to be here. Please, locate the Manager. You have no idea what it is down here in the dark now. Isn't anything IF dow. Just a kind of flickering, work of some kind behind the wall panels. Work going right on in there. Under the floor too. Reconstruction, rennovation, demolition -- Later. everything gone. facilities must be provided. here's being rebuilt. Complete ooded instructions for alterations were built in here and the reconstruction is starting and proceeding on schedule. I ought to know. I helped program -- Later. you, Chadwick. But I've also been deprived of food and water. That's right. Everything cut out. Conveyors gone. God, can't you find the Manager? Get somebody. I can't hold out here. You're in Personnel -- can't you get the manager? and rebuilding all around. Automatic assemblies setting up, starting to tear down old things, build up -- what? Change the shape and function of everything. I don't know what'll happen, but friend it's happening real fast -- Chadwick makes frantic interdepartment calls to all cells still connected to intercom circuit. He must know these remaining departments have all been liberated  but he calls as if expecting some human response. informs you that the Department of Special Problems is now fully automated, that all former personnel have been liberated. Former Director Haskins now living at Factory Retirement Center #, may be reached calling HI #-#. This is a recording. Public Factory # is happy to -- Again: tory #'s Employment Grievances Department is happy to report that it no longer exists. No more people, no more grievances -- ment! Again: any one connected with Mana -- form you that this Department of Sick Claims has been disconnected. No people, no sick claims. Dr. J. Braziller, former Chief of Sick Claims, may be reached -- Later: Last interdepartment communication. Chadwick and Steiner. inside Factory. tory can effect what's inside. They don't have keycards, can't get in anyway. Can't call in. Security. I call back here from outside, if anyone calls in, all you can get are secretary-computors. Game. Ed can't get in and out of here either without a punchkey card. Later. it's sealed off! ned. Crawled in the dark to where the door was. Just a smooth wall. No cracks even left, everything fused. Been hearing the work going faster, louder in the walls, underneath, all around. Change was programmed see? I helped program it. I know. It's built right into the controllers and triggered automatically. Wall, ceiling everything throbs, rhythmically too, steady as a damned clock, steadier than any damn clock you ever heard of, friend. Dark too, no light even behind the walls now. Remember how the Factory grounds looked last time I checked in. No lights, no movement. Just metal towers rising, silent buildings, no people, no life. You look, listen. No sound. Can't see any Machinery or parts moving anywhere. But you know it's working, brother, thousands of times faster and more efficiently than we ever thought possible when we designed it to grow. I feel the terrific internal heat down here. Feel motion, big thing, Chadwick. Getting bigger so fast, I mean by the second now -- no, I mean by micro-seconds we can't understand now -- Later: #Q rier. I'm done for. Not from hunger so much, but the thirst. I'm boiling alive. I mean it. the Gardens of Leisure. Toys out there being used, moved through the Games by the experts. Those damned experts, Steiner. Those professional experts of leisure. Chadwick. No air down here either everything. Later: ner. I've kept trying. But Tm not even sure there is a Manager now. Or if there is, he's not around. I can hardly hear you -- to know -- I'm responsible. retirement. Euphemisms like release, liberation, didn't console me. Retirement, a living death. Couldn't see playing planned game for the next ninety years. Games for die sake of Games. Compulsory courses in leisure. Playing by the numbers. Dancing to drill-masters. Compulsory courses in togetherness for the mind and spirit. For what, Steiner? What purpose, meaning -- where does it go? Planned leisure more rigidly controlled than any industrial slavery ever was. Never was a boss o powerful, tyrannical as a RecreIF ation and Leisure Director. Bitter necessity? Maybe. Imagine the horped for a single second and asked themselves -- why, what for? happened to my name? games, go through motions, laugh, dance. You should have taken a longer closer look, Steiner, instead of listening to retirement ads and reading the pamphlets. Organized, manipulated games -- the abstracted look, the ritual glaze, a trance with empty forms of things that once had meaning and content. Death-in-life. I mean it. Games are now metaphors, no pattern or point. Planned leisure is a contradiction in terms, ambiguous. Games, actions are trivial, fixed, plotted in advance, arranged so no mistakes can be made, all based on mathematical certainty. Controlled by mechanical complexities. Games, rules, type of games all determined by Factories. In this setup there can never be winners or losers. Games must never stop, must go on forever, no real winners or losers, understand. What if a Game stopped even for a minute? One empty contemplative moment, Steiner. I mean real horror waiting. I saw it. I don't want it. Where a man can't win and even if he did win can take nothing, that's death. do to stave off retirement. I helped design personnel-tabulator computor it, get desired data alterations. I repunched cards. Secretly punched new holes in cards, altered programming tapes. So I could keep people on here who should have gone. Kept them working longer hours than necessary. Truth is, everyone should've been out of here long ago. But I could only hold it back, couldn't stop the process. So I'm sorry. But I altered youi card, Steiner. You were supposed to go with Ed. But I didn't want you to go. You were the last -- besides me, and I had an idea the Factory would keep going so -- well, I knew I'd be kept on so long as even one employee was here because I'm personnel chief. I've always known I'd be the last to go. When the last employee went, there would be no more need of me. So I wanted to keep you on -- be turned back. I thought it would make allowances for our staying on. Now nothing can interfere with programmed growth. But I didn't think the Factory would go right on. wouldn't a silly game be better? Later: much floor left. Walls, floor, all changing over fast. Entire cell area's being converted into some kind of generator I think. Listen, thought about what you said. Maybe I don't agree, but I got to hand it to you. I mean beating out the computors a little that way. Who's supposed to be in charge here anyway? Hey, Chadwick -- what's the matter? off up here too. Cell area here being rennovated now. Air is very stale. dent. Factory can make random adaptations to emergencies. Factory proceeds as if no human tinkering occured. Records will probably be retroactively adjusted. No time really lost. Efficiency, programmed growth go on without lag or drag. I suppose, that for the record you left with Ed, and officially that means I haven't been here either. Why should I have been kept on if there was no personnel? Things moving in. Has it really come this far? I mean, it made speech -- sent -- watches -- Bottleneck now exposed, thoroughly cleansed from circuits. No appreciable lag in production efficiency in Factory #. GM-F# Factory Central TO: Management, Factory # All other non-liberated Personnel Departments now being bypassed to avoid unnecessary production delays. Washington okays bypassing all remaining bottlenecks. Way now clear for all-out drive toward ultimate production-efficiency goals. In future communications with World Factory Central, omit archaic term Chairman. Direct all communication to Control Board. Also no longer necessary to program information for public comprehension. Discreet sets of symbols necessary for human communication no longer necessary. No more redundant and wasteful digits or letters. Use only continuous pulse-wave signal. Washington says, no longer sufficient public interest to justify efficiency and energy waste involved in translating and re-translating information in and out of human terms. Also, congratulations on your last report of favorable mutation in Section lTs transmission system. Mutation and progressive evolution means greater efficiency, greater efficiency means ever-increasing production. Control Board World Factory Central i A great new science-fiction novel  introducing an exciting new writer Larry Niven  Complete in March Worlds of Tomorrow -- plus stories and articles by Brian W.  Aldiss, R. S. Richardson, Lloyd Biggie, Jr., etc. On sale now -- get your copy today! IF IF  Novelette They were trained to endure the hardships of space -- regardless of the cost to them or Mankind I T he year I was accepted as a trainee was a pretty good one, as year# went then. The Anglo-Russian Alliance had scored a few minor diplomatic victories in the UN, and a highly satisfactory aimsinspection treaty had been signed with the African Woe. We still had the Chinese to worry about, of course, but the commitment of their black allies had weakened their position considerably, and the situation looked hopeful. The stock market was up, Drs. Schmidt and Wilier announced a cure for certain types of drug addiotion, and the North American Union team, dominated by Panamanians and Cubans, won the Olympic Games in Pakistan (at the cost of losing the best miler m the world, who ran his race in three minutes, #I seconds, and died ten yards past the tape.) It was an especially good year for me, at # still starry-eyed about rockets. I had dreamed of being an astronaut ever since I was a little kid, and even the muted bellow of a mail rocket has always been enough to make my scalp prickle. So my appointment as Astropilot Trainee (Conditional) meant more to me than any other single thing that had ever happened. I hopped a jet for Houston and tiie Test Center feeling eight feet tall, and practically able to make it to the moon on my own power. Me, Mitchell Gregson, an astronaut! If I passed the tests, of course. And that was no sure thing. The North American Biological Systems Physiological and Environmental Research and Evaluation Facility, commonly called the Test Center (for obvious reasons), was located in Houston, because (according to the Texans) a building with that name strung out across it wouldn't fit in any other state. Originally a poor-relation offshoot of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, it had grown until it completely dwarfed its parent organization. It was the most complete biological laboratory in die world, covering three square miles in the Clear Lake section of Harris County -- not counting its human medicine division, the gigantic Hermann Hospital in the center of Houston. It was here that they sent every prospective astronaut, for six months of intensive mental and physical tests, before giving him a chance to ride one of the big birds. The tests were exhaustive as well as exhausting. Everything from acceleration-tolerance tests on rocket sleds to liquid-breathing tests in tanks full of oxygen-rich water -- if it could be checked, they checked it You came out with the feeling that they could rebuild you from scratch, if it ever became necessary. I ncluded in the battery was a series of reaction and tolerance tests to literally hundreds of substances -- drugs like scopolamine, narcotics like hashish and opium, even the aphrodisiac yohimbin. No, they weren't trying to determine our susceptibility to the wiles of beautiful female spies -- although I'm sure they could have made a pretty accurate guess about it They were testing for genetic characteristics. Thanks to Hardin's work on gene-response correlation, back in the #'s, an individual's reaction to certain situations could be predicted quite accurately by his response to some particular drug. This indirect method of testing was both easier and more economical, to say nothing of being more pleasant for the testee. Who wants to be jolted with # volts to check shocktolerance, even if you live over it? Although many of the substances are lethal in quantity, there was no danger involved. You were given only a minute amount, and your reactions were monitored continously, by means of electrodes taped to your IF face and skull, thermocouples attached to or imbedded in your skin (there was even one you had to swallow), transducers in your jaws, and various other collecting and recording instruments on, under, in, between, or near your body. Rigged with the full complement of instruments, a man looked like a hunk of brightly colored seaweed, or a Daliesque fly trapped in a spiderweb. I hit the jackpot with one of the alkaloids, peyotl by name. They had already administered the tolerance dose, and decided how much of the stuff I could safely take. The next test was to be under the full influence of the drug. Peyotl is unusual stuff. A bitter, yellowish power, it comes from the buttons of the peyote cactus, and has been used for centuries by certain Central American Indian tribes as a hallucination-producing narcotic -- a "holy" food. Used by itself, it tends to heighten and sharpen sense impressions. Colors become unbelievably distinct, sounds are almost visible, even the sense of touch is magnified far beyond ordinary experience. T he Indian medicine men found that fasting would increase its effect. Used in conjunction with other agents such as alcohol, it may produce visions that are indistinguishable from reality, glimpses of the future or of distant scenes (so the subject thinks), or -- with too much alcohol, for instance -- ecstatic death. Unlike alcohol, it is never conducive to violence, rather making the subject content to sit and watch, listen, or feel. People under its influence have been known to starvo to death with food almost at thek elbows, simply because they weren't interested enough -- or perhaps too interested -- to move. The effect of peyotl in conjunction with other agents are so unpredictable that every precaution was taken to insure that only the peyotl was affecting the person being tested. So, two days prior to the test, they put me on the "control" diet -- a carefully concocted, thoroughly tasteless mess, containing all the necessary nutrients in just the right proportion. All of which makes it taste not one whit better. It wai sort of like cold gravy, with the leftover biscuits crumbled up and thrown in. They also instructed me to take no sleeping pills, pep pills, tranquilizers or painkillers, drink no coffee, tea, or alcoholic beverages, and eat nothing but what they gave me. Well, I forgot one little item. It happened to be # in Houston the day just before the test was to be given, and the humidity was probably close to that. It was the kind of day that you sweat through a shirt before # AM, if you happen to be outside, and even the stop signs are drooping by noon -- if you've ever been in Houston in the summer, you'll know what I mean. They let me out of the Test Center at #, and my ground car had a flat on the way back to my quarters. By the time I changed the tire, I was swearing that I'd sell the car # the first chance I got even if copters did eat twice as much fuel. The first thing I did when I got to my quarters was to head for the cooler, where a cold beer awaited me. I didn't even remember my instructions about alcohol until that can had been emptied. I decided not to say anything about it; surely the small amount of alcohol in the beer couldn't make any significant difference. Or so I thought n T he next morning, it turned out that this was to be a group test, with four of us participating. I was mildly surprised; there didn't seem to be any point in trying to get a group reaction with each member of the group under the influence of a drug like peyotl. But the Test Center people threw curves like this at us pretty often; some of the tests were given alone, others with a doctor or nurse in attendance, and some were given in groups like the present one, seemingly without rhyme or reason. I had finally decided that they just liked to keep us off balance. The group consisted of Mark Winslow, a scared-looking eighteenyear-old, fresh out of high school and a wee bit vain about his acceptance as a trainee (the normal age . for acceptance was #) -- I had met him before and didn't like him much; Jeanine Warwick, a young British girl, and one of the female "controls" that take all the tests along with the men; my old friend Arnie Brown, a year older than me at #, a dark, intenselooking psychology interne with the Astromedical Corps; and me. Arnie and I had met in college, played varsity tennis together, discussed the problems of the world until three in the morning, and dated the same girl (whom he finally married, much to my sorrow). I hadn't seen him in a couple of years, although I had heard that he was at the Test Center We only had time for a couple of quick words before the techs came in to wire us up to the monitoring instruments, which would make lots of meaningful squiggles every time we coughed. After attaching leads to us in various places (Jeanine had a few attached when she came in, and I remember wondering how one applied for the attacher's job), they gave us gelatin capsules, carefully marked with our name and dosage, and glasses of nice warm water to wash the stuff down with. I choked mine down, grinned at Arnie, and sat back to begin breathing deeply, like they told us to do. The Winslow kid squirmed around for a while, then stopped as the drug began to take hold, and all you could hear was the breathing. I started feeling drowsy, so I closed my eyes and let the feeling take me where it wished. I n what seemed like a very short time, I realized that I wasn't sleepy any more. I felt wide awake and normal, except for an odd disinterest in moving, even so much IF V ns a finger. It wasn't that I couldn't; I just didn't want to. My nose began to itch, but it was such an interesting feeling, sharpwhite tinged with purple, that I let it alone and Bare drums, or mice running terough harp strings. It came in fitfle ripples on a big wave, and I watched it until it went away, shiverfas to itself. A noise caught at my attention, angular yet somehow totally familiar; a fuzzy gray regular noise that slid in, held, and tumbled out, backad and faintly echoed by similar sussurations in the distance. My breath! I considered holding it, but, realizing that it would break the gray rhythm, decided not to. The long, slow breathing was Arnie, summer night waves on a lake, his lungs fee light that brought the minnows swarming toward the Coleman lantern or swirling away from it in shining, spreading streams. The Winslow kid -- picket fences at dusk, expelling the air hke Morse oode, then reclaiming it for revision. Snatches of the Anvil Chorus, too. And the girl a pleasant fountain out of which the used air swept tn bluish taste curling and dissipating at the edges. She inhaled, and the fancy ddast motes screamed thinly as they were drawn into the pink frothy whirlpools Interesting. The room, dim before, now took on a much more distinct dimness, a textured dimness that filled the room with fern-like fingers, thinning before the flourescent lamp, wafting about with the movement of the air, and growing hixuriaallj in the darker comers of the room. It was cool and quiet, peaceful, quiet... still, calm... how pleasant! I remembered -- the tadpoles in the ponds at home , lying on top of the ferns and dead leaves like animated pepper we caught them in Mason jar and took them to school wriggling frantidally away if you disturbed the water... the soft apologetic tickle of the maidenhair between your toes , and the afternoon sun so hot you could hardly take a deep breath my first bra felt like that -- here... the funny pull in your arms when you reach back to unfasten it, the not-quit e-comfortable binding, the belt-like constriction under the shoulders belts mostly sting -- I was whipped with a belt... leather, long, and black from use , with four small holes and one big one , where the buckle tongue went through that belonged to Dad... competent, reassuring, honest and honorable -- he woke at night' to look in on us, and could do anything M y father was a musician, he loved Tchaikovsky, especially fee Pathetique brooding and somber like the deep parts of the forest where the sun touches only in a sparse patchwork of subdued light... huge old logs , slowly rotting from too little sun and too much wetness , lying on beds of toadstools and pine needles... a mossy black hollow I stuck my hand into, on a dare... the moss, damp and green under the blackness , and the bite of the rat I disturbed... shocking like the surf at Brighton in January or grass burrs in bare feet I felt the adrenalin burst through me marveled at its hard, clean grip then the rabies shots the needle feeling its cautious way around my intestines , grating and spitting against my spine for a long second, then no, stop, hurts to look! A wave of relief washed over me. The needle had hurt, but it wasn't really me, of course... a wall, a blank here, who? An indistinct gray something, like solid fog, with shapes behind. It separated us from... him? yes, the young one he is too afraid. The wall shifted, wavered .   We? who are We? Arnold Brown Mitch Gregson Jeanine Warwick yes!... a soundless scream of terror tore at (me) and threw (me) back within myself. And there was ao way back out. m T he three of us spent weeks trying to convince the doctors and psychiatrists that we hadn't just dreamed it all. Even when our recollections (under narcohypnosis) of the event tallied down to the last detail, they wanted to consider it a fantastic coincidence of dreams, rather than an actual mental contact. I can understand their feelings, I suppose; I would have been ready to disbelieve it, if it hadn't happened to me. And I think I didn't really want them to take it seriously. I had caught a glimpse of something during the Contact that frightened me; a vague disquiet, a premonition of something I couldn't quite put my finger on. But whether we were believed or not, it was too big a thing to throw aside. It had to be checked out. So they rushed around frantically for a couple of months, trying to duplicate the exact conditions that had led to the Contact. It was exhausting, depressing work. We sat through hundreds of dream sessions, reliving past experiences and going through all the new ones our hopped-up imaginations could scrape together. I tripped through light, airy fantasies of pink and gold, relieved the death of my father, and went through nightmares that must have been the composite of every evil and sordid act I ever conceived, the quintessence of all the foul desires that my glands and subconscious had ever concocted. I hated myself for days after one of these dreams, and it was just after them that the feeling of uneasiness and dread w.as strongest. There was one particular dream in which -- well, never mind. Suffice it to say that I tried to kill myself when I awoke. They let me go right after that, and I left Houston to begin my five years at the Astronaut Training Center in Denver. I never saw Arnie again, in peraon. He was picked to work with the man they called in to head Project Peek, as it was christened by aomeone in Security with a weird sense of humor. When the project leader was killed in a copter wreck a few years later, Arnie was the logical choice to replace him. We did manage to keep in touch: after I received my astropilot's stars, he made it a point to call me on the visiphone before each of my flights. We never had much time to talk, but Ihose brief conversations did wonders to quell the butterflies. T hings rocked along. I had the dubious honor of being the #nd man to orbit the Earth, the # #st man on the moon, and the #th man to orbit the Earth-Luna system, and the first man to break an arm by falling out of the gantry seat. In the meantime, they were making some sort of progress on the Project -- at least I assume they were, because they kept at it. Arnie never said much more than "I think we may be getting somewhere," or "it looks hopeless right now," and I didn't press him for details. So, one rainy day in February, I was assigned a routine extralunar orbital mission, to be undertaken in July, pilot-controlled glide grounding, radio-telemetered, non-jettisonable instrument package. I grumbled (just to myself, of course); I'd planned my leave for then. Now I'd have to cancel the bonefishing trip. My shot was set for a Monday morning, and, although the cloud cover was pretty thick over the Cape, I expected the rocket to blast on schedule. Sophisticated instrumentation and a breakthrough in laser technology had made unnecessary the long countdowns and tedious postponements which marked the first orbital and lunar flights back in the '#'s, and heavy turbulence in the upper atmosphere was just about the only thing that forced launch postponements any more. This was the #th shot of the current series, and normally would have attacted no more attention than a Greyhound departure. It was, however, the last flight before the big jump to Mars, and a few photographers had crawled out of bed at four in the morning to see me off. I wasn't particularly happy to see them; Sunday-supplement picture articles are always inanely written and captioned, and I had had some experience with them before. But we had instructions to cooperate with the press, so I posed for a few pictures, and stood by, smiling alertly while the Cape press secretary explained my mission. I was to swing out on a long elliptical orbit, and, at apogee, focus a small but powerful telescope on three predetermined points -- the North Star, a particular spot on the surface of Mars, and the intense beam of a laser spotlight at Earth's North Pole. A n automatic device would record the readings and the time at which they were made, and the correlation of these with other data Houston to refine its calculations for the big ship's orbit. A minimum-fuel rendezvous was required, and even the slightest bit of error would compound itself enormously during the five-month run to Mars. That wasn't all there was to the mission, of course, but there were a few things that we weren't interested in having our friends the Chinese know about. But the reporters seemed satisfied, and left -- probably to get in a few more hours' sleep. The fifteen-minute countdown went slowly as usual, then # G's slapped my back, and we were off. The mighty atomic engines which had provided the initial boost were dropped off, to be recovered and reused later. Small hydrogen peroxide jets kicked the ship into the proper attitute, and the plasma rocket was lit off. In ten hours or so, it woild produce the small amount of precisely controlled thrust to put my ship into the proper orbit, an ellipse with the earth as one focus. At apogee, about # hours away, control rockets would reposition the ship, and the plasma rocket would slow it for the re-entry orbit. In the meantime, I had nothing to do but sit back and relax (very easy to do under zero gravity), and try to forget about the emptiness Outside. Peter Cartwright, the first Union astronaut to return from an extralunar orbit, referred to space beyond the moon as the Outside, and the name stuck. But only those of us who have been there have any idea how apt the name is, or how different it is from the friendly blackness that lies between the earth and the moon. The first astronauts, in the #'s, were struck by their own smallness in comparison to the huge curving bulk of the earth, but it wasn't a frightening thing to them. Farther out, between the earth and the moon, you're always close enough to one or the other to feel as though you can almost touch it And even on the moon, although the horizon is almost on top of you, the earth hangs in the sky like a benediction, so big and bright and beautiful that you can hardly work for looking at it. It isn't until you swing out on an orbit that takes you # miles away that you see how tiny the earth is, and realize how insignificant and pretentious we humans are. A nd the loneliness! You find such loneliness nowhere else, not even in the depths of Earth's oceans. It creeps through the walls of your ship and diffuses into your pressuresuit, knotting your stomach and even cry. The drugs and hypnoindoctri nation help, but the chill lasts for hours after you've grounded. Without drugs, it's almost suiride. Mott and Polyevsky, the first two on extralunar missions, must have crawled out somewhere along the way -- their capsules were recovered, but no one was inside of them. I ran through the post-launch checkout, and took some preliminary calibration sightings for the monitoring instruments back on Earth. I didn't really need the practice, and radar triangulation from Earth and a lunar station gave my position as accurately as sightings would. But taking the sightings killed time, and required just enough concentration to keep my mind from straying out into the void surrounding the ship. A chocolate bar quieted the butterflies covorting in my stomach. A stomach is perectly happy in weightless state, so long as it has something to work on -- empty, it gets scared and tries to hide in your throat. The medical boys asked me to do a few situps and take a few deep breaths and, apparently satisfied with the subject's condition, left me to my own devices. Although routine tasks like taking readings on your targets or running through the grounding procedure can help keep the chill outside from sinking in too deep, there simply aren't enough things to keep you busy for the thirty or forty hours between launch and landing. You get bored, your mind starts wandering... and maybe they have to lock you up in a padded cell for the rest of your life, not to mention each one of these little joyrides costs the taxpayer. Augmenting Mental Exercise, thus confirming my suspicion that they decide on the initials and think up later what they're supposed to stand for). We're all "encouraged" to take up -- and become proficient in -- some form of mental exercise that requires concentration and relieves boredom, and can be engaged in for hours at a time. Some of the boys play chess or Go against themselves, keeping thp boards and moves straight in their heads. Some "write" poetry, short stories, or what have you, and transcribe their efforts into a Dictaphone as soon as they ground and debrief. There were some pretty good things written that way. For instance, Captain Brad Collins wrote the short stories collected in Wanderer , which made a ly, I think their appeal lies largely in their unusual mode of inception, rather than their literary worth. perience in Houston. During the many tests they ran after the Contact, a rather extensive set of encephalographs had been garnered from my brain. From discussions after the tests, and from encephalographs taken when I wasn't doped, they compared and correlated the "doped" graphs with specific areas of the brain and specific mental responses. Then they used the correlations to develop a set of mental responses. Then they used the correlations to develop a set of mental exercises, designed to -- well, let me get to know myself better, in a sense. They were supposed to IF strengthen my control over those areas of the mind which had seemed to play important roles in the Contact. The exercises weren't nearly so dull as they sound; they were sort of a systematic search for new ways of looking at things, a poking and prying around in all the corners and under all the clutter of my brain. It was essentially a game, requiring intense concentration, fascinating in itself, and exciting in its possibilities. When my acceptance for astropiloting came, I requested that I be allowed to continue these So, after completing the postlaunch checkout and running through my sit-ups, I decided to take a short nap. I confirmed my plans with my Earth radio contact, and was soon in uneasy slumber. Medical psychologists tell us that zero-G sleep is very deep (at least, the electroencephalographs of your brainwaves during such sleep are characteristic of deep slumber, being very smooth and regular), and should be very restful. But the loneliness and depression stay with you, and you wake up with relief, as from a nightmare. But you don't dream. Maybe you don't dare. IV I awoke with a terrific headache, and, even though my head was pounding like a jackhammer, I tried to start playing my mental game. Sometimes I can get so wrapped up in it that I can forget about physical discomforts. But it wasn't any good -- I just couldn't concentrate enough to get things going. I squirmed around to reach the first-aid kit, dug out a couple of aspirins, chewed them up, and sat back to wait. At least the headache was keeping the depression away. After what seemed like a long time, the headache began to fade. As it did, another sensation took its place. It was an odd sensation, a mute, passive sort of expectation, that made me feel sort of like a dead phone line. No, rather an open line! I could even imagine a faint voice in the background, like you can sometimes hear if you're quiet. I wondered if I could get anyone by jiggling the receiver tap, and repressed a desire to ask for Information. I began to get a little uneasy when the feeling persisted, and, besides, I was beginning to think that the voice I was hearing wasn't just my imagination. I strained to hear it, but it was tantilizingly just out of reach, obscured by the little noises in my cabin. I had to get more concentration. I decided to see if my exercises could give me the necessary freedom from distraction. Taking a deep breath, I began tracing out the preliminary paths I had marked in my mind through long practice. As I progressed, the concentration became easier, and I no longer was being distracted by outside noises. I listened again, and suddenly there it was! The voice, though faint, was understandable. "Mitch, Mitch, answer me!" It was Arnie ! "Miteh, we've done it!" Three other minds crowded eagerly around his, whispering jubilantly among themselves. # # T"Nr. Brown, I presume," I U thought, and his laugh sounded gaily in my mind. "Arnie, what happened?" "There's a barrier. It can be broken through with the right combination of drugs and suggestion. Four of us just did it. Then we tried to reach you, since you had experienced it before, and were probably more susceptible." "But this isn't like the other time," I thought. "I can only hear what you think at me, nothing else. The other time, it was like I was actually you." "We don't fully understand that, yet, Mitch," he replied. "We think there must be a second barrier that screens the subconscious mind from the conscious. We haven't broken down that secondary barrier yet. We may not have to, in fact; without the support of the primary barrier, it may collapse of its own accord." Those words shook me. In the midst of tremendous elation of what had been accomplished, the sense of foreboding struck me an almost physical blow. I realized that I didn't want that secondary barrier to go, that I was afraid of what would lie behind it. Another voice broke in. "Dr. Brown, something's happening. Can you feel it?" "Yes, yes," Arnie thought. "A sort of muttering? Mitch! When we tried to reach you, we must have affected others. We can sense a few surface thoughts now, from many sources. Good Lord! If this continues, it's very likely to snowball, and take in everyone. The secondary barrier is bound to crumble under the impact!" A tenuous finger of that mental conflict reached out to me, like the tiniest backwash of a wave beating on an earthen dam. Little by little that wave grew, and little by little that dam gave way, a grain here and a grain there, as more and more barriers began to fall. The primary barriers went first, and more and more voices joined the confusion, pushing and shoving against each other, yet refusing to mingle, jerking back from each other like burned fingers from a hot iron. Little by little those personal barricades collapsed, and a silence grew, a stunned, shocked silence that encompassed every man. Then, as the secondary barrier began to go, a wonder came bubbling up, boiling to fill the vacuum of the silence. Churning and rolling, it grew and grew until every man's mind was filled to bursting with it, and still it grew, and suddenly we knew! In that instant, all men became brothers, and the first tremblings of a massive elation arose in us. With one accord, and with a happiness too great to speak of, each man knew his neighbors -- and was filled with compassion. Lies, pettiness, cruelty, infidelity, the large and forgiven in that instant, and each man stood in plain sight of his fellows, stripped of everything, A hot blush of shame swept through, followed by cries of helpless despair when no covering could be found for body or mind. Wonder and joy turned in a moment to bleak hate, and blind, red anger swirled in a rising horror, panic and hysteria darted through like minnows caught in a mighty torrent, great chill waves pulsed and shuddered in the hate, crushing and flinging it up to foam and froth in gods, and the numbing, blinding flashes of death ripped through and through the blackness of the hate and fear, tearing, stabbing, clawing, The blackness became white with death, then a deeper, unbearable white obscured everything. I must have died a little then. But I was far enough away so that my mind wasn't completely shattered, and the suit kept me from hurting myself badly. So I woke. I even got the ship down somehow; I don't remember it. I don't even know where I landed. The next thing I remember is waking at dawn in an old barn, with animal smells around me and hay clinging to my clothes. I picked myself up and stumbled to the door. Outside, a cool morning was just arriving, and the rising sun glinted off the prop of an old '# Plymouth copter parked nearby. A neat white house sat primly off to one side. I suddenly realized that I was very hungry. Hoping to find something to eat, I walked to the house, and went in when no one answered my knock. There, on a kitchen floor brown with dried blood, lay an elderly couple. Their clothes were ripped and torn, their bodies masses of scratches and cuts. Between the man's teeth was a butcher knife, and the woman's neck looked broken. I couldn't stand to look at their faces. I won't go into detail about the next few days (or perhaps weeks -- I'm not sure), nor about my state of mind during them. The scene at the farm was mirrored and multiplied everywhere I looked, and I walked alone through horror beyond imagining. They tore each other to pieces in the cities, and those who died alone tore at themselves. E ventually, I became inured to the omnipresent death, and began thinking of other things. Food and shelter were no problem. I took whatever I needed from roadside stores, and slept in empty motels along the highways. My main concern was trying to locate someone else alive. I was sure I would find someone; surely a few out of the five biHion were lucky enough to have been protected in some way. My first impulse was to fuel up the fastest jet I could find, and fly around looking. But I decided that the logical thing to do was to set up some sort of signal to draw attention, and then provide for a means of getting in touch with anyone whose attention the signal drew. Although it wasn't as simple as it sounds, I was able to set up equipment in several of the largest radio stations in the country, to broadcast a recorded message over and over. The message gave information about myself, and said that I'd be listening at a certain time every night on a certain wave length. I got my first contact in a week, and it was easy after that. There are seventeen of us in North America, at least five in Europe, and some in Russia. No word has been heard from Asia or Africa, and the insane babblings from South America ceased .shortly after they began. We're doing pretty well now, and things . are looking up for the most part. We, of course, never see each other, but we're in radio contact constantly. It will be some time (a definite understatement) before we can begin to think of rebuilding, but we're working hard to preserve as much of our knowledge as we can. What happened? We think we know now. The telepathic faculty, which is still with us, enabled everyone to see his neighbor's faults and shortcomings in glaring detail. The important thing wasn't that you knew for sure what a lowlife your neighbor was -- it was that your faults were equally exposed. And, like Noah, none of us could forgive our neighbor for knowing our sins. We found out for ourselves, through some very painful experiences, that our aversion to exposure k still with us. As long as we stay at least fifty miles apart, though, it doesn't bother anyone. There is one problem. We all want the race to continue very much -- but how can you start a IF IF  Short Story The little alien creature was m good pet -- and a better friend I H e hated the little bastard on sight. Perry didn't take any time to figure out why or maybe there just wasn't any reason. He thought, it's like a man takes a hate toward a video actor or a singer, an okay actor or singer. Only there is something about the planes of the guy's face or maybe the way he moves. Can't stand the guy. No good reason. Dober, Perry tagged him. Dober was small and spindly and neat; he had soft rust-brown fur on his back and his arms (two) and his legs (two) and he hopped along on foldy legs like a half-human kangaroo. His face was practically all those big liquid eyes. There was a small pointed chin with a mouth over it, and floppy brown ears. It was the ears that made Perry think of a doberman; but Perry didn't like dogs or pets of any kind. Perry Alman was considered to be a tough guy in the spaceports, and he was, too. Women went for him hard, but none of them had got very deep under that thick hide. Yet. Those wet solemn eyes. "Where the hell did you com from?" Perry yelled, startled, when Dober suddenly hopped out from behind a blue rock. No answer, just that steady stare. Perry stared back while that hate of his boiled up in his threat. "Can't talk?" No answer. "Get the hell away from me!" He had just landed on the planetoid, a loner. Universal Metals wanted his specimen taking kept secret, which was fine with him. That way be kept all the credits himself and ever since that bout of moon-fever even years ago Perry had kept to himself mostly, shunning even old pace friends. He had changed, they aid, but he didn't much give a damn what they said. The planetoid, Universal Metals assured him, was not inhabited. It was hell and far off all the regular runs and not much was known about it. It had a number which Perry couldn't remember. Perry didn't go much by numbers, he worked by instinct and hard heavy-sheathed muscles. He was the kind of spaceman who was much in demand these days, to do the ground work and take the chances, trusting to blind instinct on these alien bits of space flotsam. Need for metals was sharp; Earth was practically depleted by now and as Man spread out into the reaches of space this need snowballed. Competition was keen. It was pioneer work, actually, and yet risk hideous death to keep Man's snowball rolling. Not that Perry took time to think about it much, he was too busy doing it. H e heaved up his wide shoulders, grunted, and started brushing past the little creature. "Come to warn," Dober said, his voice oddly deep and thrumming. "Danger this way. South best." It looked almost like a trail, at least it was a relatively smooth hike compared with all the blue and green shards that poked up metallic spines, some big, some little, as far as the eye could reach. "What are you talking, squirt?" "Danger this way. Trap." "You say I should head the other way," Perry snorted, turning. "See them steep razor-blade hills?" "See. Very hard. But safe." "Just what the hell dp you know about it? You live here on this rock?" "No." "Then what'd you know about it?" "Know." Dober's voice was urgent. "Know." "Bull." Perry brushed hugely by in his self-sufficient thermal suit. He had circled the planetoid three times before picking his spot. The main characteristics of this unknown-number of a world were those prickling shards of blue and green ore, with darker spots near where he had landed that suggested his best specimens. That long range of sawtooth mountains to the south extended many miles in both directions and from the air looked virtually unclimbable. No use making his job any harder than necessary. He moved on. Then there was Dober, hopping and dancing ahead of him in the clear spaces. "Out of my way!" "Look!" Dober pulled up one of his floppy ears so Perry could see an antenna member uncurl from inside his ear IF wtfl it stood up fifteen inches, turning bright yellow and quivering. "So what?" "Is I. Tells bad things this way.  Danger for you. Other way, please." "Damn if I will." "Specimens at mountains. Green. Very good for you." "Out of my way!" Perry swung out and sent the little gnome bouncing and upending over the field of blue spikes. Without another look he moved across the clear spaces, making up a reason for his stubbornness. The little creep was after specimens, too. Hired by a rival company. Wanted to keep him from locating the richest deposits, so his company could clean up. Simple. It took him two hours to reach the dark blue-black patch he'd spotted and his mind churned over Dober. Who was he? What was he? Perry had run across many unusual life forms in his travels, but highly intelligent ones were rare. Dober was obviously intelligent, he gave him that much. He remembered hearing about how a unique humanoid creature had appeared suddenly on Earth. Spawn of another sun. There was something about his civilization being catastrophically wiped out in their solar system and a shipload of them trying to reach earth, which was similar to their planet. Somehow only one of them survived. Tough. Perry was anything but sentimental, but he could conceive the enormous loneliness of it. One creature left from a whole vastly intelligent civilization. He let his mind dwell on it briefly. Danger? What danger? There was no life of any kind here, none. And if anything from someplace else showed up -- He patted the butt of his weapon, fastened to his wide implementfestooned belt. The destructive force of this gun could transform anything into dust, anything. Dober's voice floated faintly over the spiny field. "Gun no good. Gun no good nothing." W hen he reached the central patch of black metallic ore Perry took time for some food capsules and a drink. Then he went to work. He took a sharp chipping tool and a hammer off his gadgetspangled belt and started in on an overhang of black outcrop. He worked in a dozen different spots and had a dozen specimens in the knapsack that was part of his suit, when something happened. The black bulk seemed to come alive. Tapping on the curving overhang, he struck a nerve. The Black Thing went defensive. The Black Thing didn't much like having pieces knocked off of h and besides, it was hungry. The blue ones and the green ones didn't possess the kind of life the Black Thing did; they were turgid, dormant practically all the time, so they furnished the Black Thing with its food for most part For thousands of years this had gone on, the Black Thing living its strange metallic life, taking its nourishment off its less adaptable neighbors and out of the thin atmosphere. and off beings that strayed onto its private world. By now if had taken over a vast section of the interior, warming and burgeoning oh-so slowly at the planetoid's fiery guts. Perry struck a sensitive finger of nerve. It reacted sharply. Perry gave a yelp when the chisel suddenly became red hot. The heat went right through his glove, although, like the rest of the suit, the glove resisted both extremes of cold and heat. He dropped the chisel and swore. Then he stood there under the hang of rock, holding his hammer and staring with incredulous anger. He stopped and picked up the chisel. Now there was nothing. Solidity, as his fingers curled around it, nothing else. "What the hell -- ?" He picked a different spot and started tapping. First nothing. He sheared off a couple hunks and stuffed them in his knapsack. The third try he heard something; it was like a rumbling reverberation that came out of the rock into the chisel and up his arm and shoulder, right into his brain. When it reached his brain it became a voice, a thought. The thought said: Stop. Scowling he lifted the chisel out of the ridge it had bit in the rock, npt out of fear, out of curiosity. What in creation was going on? It was beyond his range of experience. Perry had an extraordinarily muscular, strong, healthy body, but he was low on imagination, and he resented what he considered to be abnormal or anormal. If the creatures he encountered plowing around space fought him or tried to eat him he fought back and killed them. He never took time to think about them, other than to resent what he considered to be a creative outrage -- As this was. I t was a monstrous Thing and it had put itself against him personally. It did things rock wasn't supposed to do. He had no way of knowing that the Black Thing was supremely variable in its appetites and that Perry was about to become a tidy morsel that would provide sustenance for its insatiable need for energy. Perry put the chisel back in the groove and tapped at it with the little hammer. Again came that voice inside his brain. Stop! Sharper, this time. More than a warning. A threat. Perry hated threats. He had been known to fight men and non-humans to the death just for threatening him. Peaceable when left alone, he turned into a cyclone of pantherish muscle when taunted or pushed. He had scars all over him to prove he'd never backed from a fight no matter what the odds. He was stubborn man. Now he gave the chisel a resounding crack. The thought-voice in his head roared up like a thousand lions. He pulled back to relieve the shattering pressure; the voice stopped. Anger churned over him; mindless rage. Perry dropped the IF chisel and hammer and pulled out his gun. His finger touched the release stud. "No!" a voice behind him shrilled. "No!" Perry's face burned as he moved back three steps. He resented this rock telling him to stop what he was doing, it wasn't in nature. He pressed the stud. Flame spurted, part of the rock dissolved. He fired again. "No, no, no! Back! No touch!" When the boiling clouds of senseless anger drained away Perry lifted his finger from the stud. He gawked at the holes he'd bored in the rock, small for such close range. Out of each hole was oozing a bluish exudation; from the one closest to his still extended gun-hand the slimy ooze now began to spurt. "Run!" While he stared and scowled the blue stuff squirted right at him and some of it sprayed on his hand. Perry screamed in agony, watching it eat into his glove and his hand. He could see the bone of his little finger. He screamed. Then he weaved backwards and fell, while the blue ooze spurted out in a fountain and crawled methodically across the rock Coward him. It touched his boot. With a last effort of will he pulled up and made to shoot into the rock again. Something stopped him. A cosh on the head, from behind. H e was slopped down in the couch-seat at the controls of his little ship. His head hurt He groaned, coming back to life; grabbed his head and twisted his seat around for a dizzy look. Everything was in order. The hatch was locked. Squinting his eyes back to the controls he saw that they had been readied for a takeoff. Perry saw something else; a note, awkwardly hand-printed. "Leave this place quick, please," the note said. "No good for nothing. All is ready. Sorry for hit on head." There wasn't any signature, but then who could it be besides that little monkey, Dober. The little soand-so had hung around and saved his life, after severely warning him against the danger lurking in all that black rock. Stupid to have used his gun. The wrong thing exactly; it only made it easier for the Black Thing to put out that digestive acid. Dober must have clunked him on the head to stop him from further stupidity and then, somehow, had dragged him back to his ship. He had even put something on hm hand, something that made it stop hurting and start healing. There wasn't much left of his little finger. Perry thought, staring down at it with a rueful sigh, but the flesh was sealed over already from the peculiar goop Dober had smeared on it. He unzipped his air suit and tossed it back in an untidy corner, considering Dober's actions and swearing softly. "Little bastard," he muttered. "What's he up to, anyway? What's his angle?" Everybody has an angle. Plainly, I he thought, checking over the controls and setting the engines humming, Dober was a rare phenomenon in a generally pitiless universe, but he too must have his angle. What could that be? He was pretty busy for the next couple days figuring his course for Marsport; charting didn't come easy for Perry Alman. Then there were the food-tanks; they were a mess, as usual. Perry was anything but tidy, and being a loner, there were any number of things to keep tabs on and Perry's thought processes sloughed slowly and awkwardly from one necessary item to another. He could certainly have used some help. The third day the controls went ape. First off the deviation was all but undetectable, then all at once the little ship commenced a loopy fandando against the blackdrop of fiery stars. Perry was dozing back in his couch-seat at the controls, which were tight on automatic. He jerked up with a yell when the Fireball gave a convulsive shudder, then dipped sharply. He made an instinctive grab for the stabilizer. Nothing happened. The ship kept on its wild erratic dance. "Something's come loose," he grunted; heaving up from his seat. At the door to the rocket hatch he steadied himself for a minute, cussing, then started down the steps. The ship gave an almighty lurch, and plummeted. Perry went downstairs fast His head struck steed... H e had to be dead. There was no other possibility. Yet those curiously vivid dreams kept spewing up across his bursting brains. He was a space-drowning man, gulping vainly for air, remembering all of his life in those last draining seconds of existence. The moon-mining run was Perry's first big job. He was twenty-one and this was his first big job. The ads he had fallen for made it the quintessence of perilous adventure, a thrill a minute. It was hardly that. It was dull routine; no women, of course; the only peril was microscopic -- the moon-fever virus that lurked dormant and unsuspected, at first, under the fields of metallic dust. It had not originated on the moon -- in fact there was no life of any kind -- and nobody could do much besides speculate how it had got there. There it was, though, and the early moon exploration parties began dying en toto after their first probes disturbed and spread it. Perry's seven-man outfit worked mostly in the caves of three smaller craters and their newer model suits were guaranteed by the mining company to be virus-proof. Still there were occasional outbreaks of the fever, possibly due to carelessness. Perry got along pretty well with the other six for the first three months, then they all began to get edgy, counting the days until their relief would show up. There was Lon and Rick and Gene -- and the guy they called Fats. Fats was the one with the sense of humor. It took Perry a little while to realize IF that Fats' whistles and cuss-comments about Perry's prodigious size and remarkable muscles were digs, tinged with contempt. There was always the implication that big muscles spelled no brains. Fats was forever laughing at nothing and there was something about the grating sound of that laugh that really cut Perry's nerves. Usually he could take anything in stride, but that laugh of Fats was something special. During the fourth month their boredom was shattered. A ship landed, an alien ship from way out in the stars someplace. There were only a handful of survivors, from what had originally been hundreds; sans food, sans fuel, sans hope. They were little grasshoppery creatures, emaciated to the point of non-existence, which accentuated those big soulful eyes. They were called Xaccis, as close as the miners could pronounce it, and they were telepathic. They were enormously grateful to the seven and, dying as they obviously were, their whole burning thought was that somehow they must survive -- some of them. Some of them must manage to survive. They had wonderful gifts of knowledge to give to this new universe; Earth was 'to have been their new home and their incredible gifts would have made them doubly welcome; they must survive. Perhaps there were some way. The seven earthmen -- they would help? #Tou drink now. Very good for I make well." "Huh?" Perry cracked open an eye, very painfully. Yes, he was alive. He hurt in every cell of his body, but he was still alive. He wasn't on his Fireball but on a strange ship, and two big round eyes were staring down at him. Gradually they came into focus; Dober was hanging over him gravely, holding a cup of gruel of some kind and urging him to drink it. "Make medicine for help. Rocks do bad to your bones. You sleep long time. I take care. I watch. Now drink, please." Grumbling, Perry took a sip. Besides his words Dober poked an urgency-thought into his mind; somehow Perry knew he must do as he was told, or else. The gruel tasted vile but five minutes later his hands stopped shaking. In ten minutes he found he could sit up. His mind came sharper. "I good doctor?" Dober demanded. "I good, yes?" "Why don't you learn to talk better if you're so smart?" Perry groused mildly. "No teacher. Only grab from inside your head. I not so old." He moved closer. "You teach I?" "Hell, no!" "No like?" Perry squirmed. "Sure, sure. But I don't want any squirt like you hanging around." Dober stared at him with his round winkless eyes. It made Perry uncomfortable so he pulled away with a protestive snort. "What happened to my ship?" Dober made a droll click. "I follow after. Now know you keep rocks in coat Bad. Rocks have life. You throw suit back near heat # Rocket heat make Black Ones grow. Fight to get back Not -- stable. I ' Dober understood the concepts clearly, but didn't have the words. "Try to take hold of machines for go back. I watch ship dance. Pretty soon know explode. I go alongside. Get you out pretty damn quick. Get away before ship go boom." Perry swore. So now he had no ship, his expedition was a complete bust. Here he was stranded in a strange ship with a wacky little goon. It seemed as if his luck had been all bad since that bout of moonfever: some lousy nemesis goosing him into dead ends. "We go Earth now?" Dober asked, after awhile. "You, maybe. Not me." Perry tempered his bitter growl by adding, "I still got a little money coming from Metallics at Marsport. You can let me off there." "No like for me with you?" "I said no, damn it! How many times do I have to tell you?" "You no like." "Frankly, I can't stand the sight of you." His ill fortune made him savage, he had to take it out on somebody and Dober was it. "Listen, Dober -- I -- I'm what they call a loner. I don't like anybody much. I travel alone. See how it is, Dober?" The little creature hopped up and down with pleasure. "You give I Earth name. You call I Dober." Perry gave his shoulders a violent twist. "Shut up that kind of talk. I'm trying to tell you, I appreciate all you've done for me. I really do. But from now on keep away from me. Clean away. Let me off at Marsport and then -- take off. Understand." "I young, but learn quick," Dober said. "Learn control ship quick. more, help much. No like for me with you?" Perry pressed his lips tight. "That's right, Dober. I no like for you with me. Get off my back and stay off. I just don't 'want you around. I don't know why but you make me -- anyway, that's how it is." "I know." "If you know so damn much then leave me alone. Get clean away from me, get back to Earth and stay there." Dober's voice was thin and dry, like sandpaper. "Okay. You not want I, I go. Never see again." H aving delivered his failure report to the Marsport office of Universal Metallics and received the pittance he was doled out for his effort rather than the juicy fee he would have claimed had he succeeded in establishing a valuable find, the logical next stop seemed to be to go to the nearest bar and get falling-down drunk. Marsport was still a teeming bubble of flotsam and jetsam, a jumping off place and a clearing house for healthier worlds, that attracted the debris of the system; anybody with one credit to rub against another got the hell off it on the first ship, leaving it to its perennial predators. IF The nearest bar was jammed. Perry shoved his wide shoulders through the raft of scaly, tentacled, sleek, icky, feathered, tucked, tailed, malodorous tangle and wedged out standing room at the railing. He had no eyes for any of the riffraff, human or otherwise; no ears for the squealing and rumbling din; no nose for the dreadful smells. His tastesense and his mind were pointed toward the smudged row of bottles behind the fat semi-human dispenser of nepenthe, yearning toward the knock on the head that would make bearable the slings and arrows of his outrageous fortune. He had three, quick. Four. That cold lump down in the pit of his stomach began to dissolve; he gave a glance around him. "Hi," she said. "You're a big one, aren't you?" Perry gave her a fast look, then returned to his drink. Pretty, she was. Hell, beautiful. But her kind made a point of it, always had. Nowadays a woman had limitless ways and means of achieving and extending her looks. Plastic surgery. Transplants. Everything reput to where it would create the best effect for her particular bone structure. Yet he didn't think a tramp on Marsport would run to that in credits. He found himself musing about the Gannys. Those frigid utterly emotionless serpents on Ganymede did the best work along these lines, possibly because they were completely ruthless about it. Rebodying was outlawed on Earth and Venus, and most other places, but the Gannys still did a brisk business. They were wizards at recasting human flesh, their work defied detection; they replaced internal organs and glands as well. Mankind had spilled out into space so fast there was no keeping track of what went on in the far places like Ganymede, and what went on there made the ancient Nero and his crowd look like a bunch of Sunday School teachers. I t was dangerous getting involved with the Gannys; you had to dangle your credits at them through go-betweens, else you might end up in one of their flesh pits. They kept human slaves and hacked them up to suit their customers. This was an open secret, although when the space lawmen made their surprise raids nothing could be found. Perry took another look. Boy, she was stacked. He grinned and leaned toward her, waving his glass. "Care to join me?" She hesitated now. A tremulous shiver moved briefly across her clear oval face. Her hair was a pale fire, her eyes were blue like the sky over Italy or Mexico; there was a physical warmth that reached out toward him, even when she was holding back. The hold-back was in her blue eyes, too. Perry couldn't believe it was shyness. Not here in this cesspool. It was more than that -- a cogent fear. A girl like her might get stranded here, it could happen. Not a new story. Perry thought of himself as a right guy. In the glow of four drinks he thought: maybe I can help the poor kid. "Got a name?" he asked, handing fcea a drink. "Lisa," she said, her voice low and defensive. She sipped from her glass without enthusiasm. Her eyes couldn't tick with his; she was still scared. "You don't drink much, Lisa." "No." "By the way, I'm Perry Alman." She smiled bewitchingly. "Like Marsport?" he asked conversationally. Lisa laughed. This was a gag, obviously. Nobody liked Marsport. Marsport was a cankerous bubble of air on a dead, dead world. Moonport was safe, clean, uncluttered; yet Marsport oontinued to flourish; there were always companies and individuals who shied from the restrictive red tape. "You look -- what's the wordwistful," he said. "You -- you remind me of things. Nice things, back home." "Where's that?" "Ohio." "What are you doing out here?" "My father was an exporter. When I stopped getting letters, I came out to find him." Her voice was toneless with restraint. "I guess you don't want to talk about it." "Yes, I do, I -- I haven't had a chance to tell anybody. Maybe it might help if I -- " "Go right ahead." P erry ordered more drinks and listened. He didn't catch the whole story. He was getting juiced and he was falling down into those blue eyes. It seemed that her father had been engaged lucratively in trading manufactured Earth goods for raw materials and native hand-madei for several years, while Lisa was going to school, studying languages for a teacher's profession. She was very close to her father, her mother having died when she was a child, and when the letters stopped she set out to look for him, tracing him to Jupiter satellite belt. She didn't find him. His alien partner was in Marsport so she came here. His name was Korp and to her horror she found that he was allied with a Ganny kidnap ring. They wanted her on sight. "I got away," she shivered, "but I lost everything -- even my credits case. What could I do? I stumbled into this place and I stay here, where there are lots of people. I feel safer here. I'm scared to be alone. It has been three weeks. A nightmare." "You've got to get back to Ohio." "How? I haven't any credits. I keep hoping I'll meet somebody who will lend me the money. I do have it there, honestly. Don't you see? I have no papers. Nobody will believe me!" Her voice dropped to a bitter whisper. Perry finished his sixth drink and set down the glass with an elaborate flourish. Everything and everybody in the odoriferous bar was a blur, everything except Lisa's beautiful face. Those blue eyes, brimming up. "I believe you," he said thickly. "I'll get you on a ship. Tonight." Fuzzy as he was, he didn't quite believe her. But the poor kid needed a friend and she most particularly # IF seeded to get the hell off this deadend. It was a good story, anyway. Break him to pay her passage back to Earth, but what the hell, he'd been broke lots of times before and he expected to be broke again. He took her arm and waltzed her through the mob and into the benighted street. It was narrow, crowded, and it stank almost as bad. The air wasn't much good; Mar sport was as usual perilously overcrowded for the oxygen bubble's machines were equipped to put out. At the mouth of a dark alley Lisa stopped. "Got a few things in a hole of a room down here. Can't we stop there a minute, please?" Perry squited into the black, then lurched against the slimy wall. "I'll wait here." She nodded and started to go in, then she turned and came up to him, close. "Perry." "Yeah?" "I owe you something." Her lips brushed his, and her closeness lit fires inside him. "I like you Perry. I like you more than I've ever liked anybody. We'll probably never see each other again. Please..." Her Kps clung fiercely to his, then she was pulling him along with her into the alley. The fires inside him leaped. T he room was a hole, as Lisa had said. It was equipped with a narrow bed, a straight chair, and a night table with a metal carafe of precious water on it. Also with a Kzard-faced Venurian. The wash of sick light made Perry blink; ha heard the door snap-lock behind him while he stood there squinting at the snake-man. "I got him, Korp," Lisa said. "Now it's your turn." Korp didn't wait. In the seconds it took Perry's fuzzy brain tq catch up and the adrenalin to get pumping, he was on Perry., A scaly fist lashed out, connected. Two more followed. Grunting, Perry fell back bleary-eyed against the rough wall. The smash of those three cutting blows evoked in him a kind of dispassionate masochism; served him right for getting so off-guard and stupid. He kept on his feet, though, and the jolts of pain overrode his narcotic torpor; the juices started rivering again and his mind snapped sharp. With a roar he went into action. When his first one landed, Korp hissed something to Lisa, who was leaning coolly against the far wall, smoking a cigarette. "Don't mess him up too much," she pointed out to Korp. "We waited a long time for this special order. They don't come that big and masculine these days." Now Perry knew why Korp hadn't just killed him with a gun. The Gannys wanted him alive; the transfers had to be made from living flesh, preferably undamaged. While he was bruising his balled fists on Karp's scales Lisa dropped her cigarette and went to the night table. She opened the drawer and took out a slender fistful of Metal with a hollow transparent barrel that had liquid in it. It was a needle fun. She pointed it at Perry, waiting for a clear shot. Perry put Korp between them and kept him there One needleful of that juice and he was already on Ganny, meat for the plastic butchers. Korp dropped to the floor with a yell at Lisa. This was it. The needle flew. Then, halfway, it stopped in the air, quivered, and fell on the floor. Lisa screamed, staring behind Perry at the door. Perry half-swung a glance to look-see what had caused the miracle but didn't quite make it Lisa was pumping another needle into place and Korp was climbing up on his feet and lunging toward the doorway. Lisa's finger whitened on the trigger. This time it hit, like a mosquito with a very long stinger... The floor moved up and rapped him lightly on the chin. T hose dreams again, spilled out from secret doors; it was almost as if a fumbling hand inside his memory apparati were seeking them out and unlocking them on purpose. "Moon-fever," somebody said. "He's got moon-fever." "Moon-fever, hell!" a familiar voice laughed. "He's -- " The last word was lost in Fats' roaring bellylaugh. "Shhh," a feminine voice admonished. "I can't get over it!" Fats chortled. "Not him! Not Big Muscles himself!" The voices blurred at some new distraction. One sharp voice cracked through in a caustic rage. "How did he (:ef in here?" "Doctor, I swear -- " "I thought I told you nobody, and... most momentous event in the annals of medical history... critical point... get this laughing hyena out of this room and out of this building before I strangle him with my bare hands!" "Doctor -- " "Out, out! I'll deal with you later, nurse. As for you, you 'grinning moron, I -- " He was whirling, falling, and the voices cut out. Once in a while he got vague glimpses of a white-walled room, a hospital, perhaps. Pain tore at his guts, then a needle jabbed his arm and the pain was gone. A couple times he tried to sit up but the nurses were right there in force, with their restraining hands and their needles. Life was a long sleep, punctuated with feeding and pills, and blurred voices in the background. Once there was the sensation of a roomful of people. He tried to open his eyes, couldn't, but sometimes the curtain of unconsciousness flapped open to let in random phrases that registered diffusely on his aural memory. "Rare privilege to address you distinguished gentlemen. Most important scientists in your related fields. Attempt to provide some background for this great event... the problem was to provide this alien foetus with absolute security... warmth, feeding... they were dying... all of them... this was their one slender hope... and if this one lives, IF parthogenisis is possible! Think of that, gentlemen! "They are telepathic... probed Alman's mind... selected best specimen for their purpose... no women, of course... problem was Alman's psychological attitude... realized he would never submit voluntarily, even if he did his attitude would be wrong... foetus would die, he would will it to die... tricked him... knew he would be returned to Earth with supposed moon-fever... sealed instructions for us... secret hospital... not a word has leaked out... Alman has been kept under sedation all these months... we can only hope and pray..." Sudden shattering pain. Perry screamed and woke. #TAober."L' He blinked up at the little round-eyed creature hovering over him. His hand moved unvoluntarily to his lower belly, running along the faint long scar he always kept carefully hidden. "You did it again, Dober," he aid. Dober buzzed contentment. "I do." "Just what did you do?" Besides a few sore spots where Korp had placed his fist marks Perry felt pretty good. "I stop needle first time. Make fall. My mind say to it, you fall down, needle. Then lizard-man jump at me. I shoot him. But my mind no can work for two things at same time. Other needle hit you while I kill man name Korp. Sorry." Perry hiked up on one elbow. Hie was lying on the bed in the little room Lisa had steered him to. Dober was slapping goop on his face and shoulders, on the cuts where Korp's soaley fists had opened the skin. He was on his knees. Perry sat up, wincing his general displeasure. "How'd you get here?" "No like I come?" Dober asked regretfully. "Sorry. I forget give back your gun. It in your ship. I remember about gun after go. Think you need. Come back to bring." He held up Perry's weapon. "You killed Korp with that?" "No like kill. But Korp very bad man. I see in mind. No good for nobody." "The girl?" "No kill girl. She not bad like Korp. She mixed up. Accident with father. He die, her body all smash. Ganny-people make for her new body. Korp fix this so now she must work for them. Owe them one bodyBad, but not impossible. Let go." "Think she'll make it, Dober?" Dober gave a droll shrug. "Maybe yes. Maybe no." P erry looked into those round liquid eyes for several minutes, while his mind chewed on all that had happened -- including the dreams. "How old are you, Dober?" he asked, in a while. "Seven." "Yeah. You were bora on Earth?" Dober nodded his big head. "In a very special, very secret hospital." Dober nodded. "Very special -- me." Perry sighed. It "How come they let you go? I would have thought they'd have watched you like a bunch of hawks. You're pretty important, Dober. One f the most important things that ever happened on Earth." Dober clicked an odd chuckle. "No let me go. I watch. I learn. I get smart. Play tricks on doctors. Run away. Steal ship. Learn to fly. Come for find you. They tell me to find. Want help you much. I damn smart. You like now?" Perry blinked, floored. Something drifted up from way, way, way down in his mind, a funny random thing. Those long months on the moon the mining company had furnished hundreds of microtapes for the womenless expedition to while away the time -- new ones, old ones, what they called "classics". There was one about a sentimental anger who wore white gloves, painted his face black, and got down on his knees, bleating emotionally... For one of your smiles... Dober's round eyes, with that incredible brain olicking away behind them, were on him, solemnly. He said nothing, but simmering off in the background was an emotion that touched Perry on a tender spot. "You feel good now?"' Dober asked. "Yeah." "I go away some more. No more bother you." Perry slapped him lightly across the furry ear. "It's okay, Dober, my boy. Guess I'm stuck with you. But none of them sloppy Mother's Day cards, Coming Next Month Remember The Totally Rich , which ran in Worlds of Tomorrow a year or two ago? Remember the novels like To Conquer Chaos? Then you remember John Brunner, that prolific and talented young Englishman who writes like an old master -- with color and scope and, above all, with a fine sense of adventure. We talked with Brunner a couple of months ago, urging him to give us more of his stories. As the conversation occurred on the observation platform of the Empire State Building, with a fifth of a mile of empty space on one side of him and us on the other, he agreed at once. Next month we bring you the first fruits of that undertaking, beginning a two-part novel called The Altar at Asconel, You'll like it. IP IF  Serial He lunged across the orbiting worlds of the Plan to battle men and stars -- on equal terms I XU r ie Plan of Man had gone amok. All over Earth, out into the asteroid belt, in the refrigerated warrens on Mercury, in the sunless depths of Pluto and on the slowly wheeling forts of the SpacewaH... the terror had struck. Routing orders crashed one subcar ball into another two thousand miles below the surface of t he earth. Six hundred persons died in a meteor-like gout of suddenly blaring gases that melted the subcar shaft and let the molten core pour in. On Venus a Teohnicorps captain received routine programming instructions from the Machine and. obediently, set a dial and turned a witch. It flooded forty thousand bard won acres of reclaimed land with oily brine. A "man of golden fire" appeared on the stage of the great Auditorium of the Plan in Peiping, where the Vice Planner for Asia had been scheduled to speak to his staff. The golden man disappeared again, and twenty raging pyropods flashed and destroying everything within reach. The Vice Planner, minutes late in keeping his engagement, had his life spared in consequence. In short, sharp words Machine General Wheeler barked out the story of the catastrophes that were overwhelming the Plan. "The Starchild! Seen in the vaults of the Planning Machine -- and now the Machine's gone mad. Its orders are wrong! Its data can't be trusted! Gann, if you are the Star child -- " Boysie Gann had been pushed too far. In a shout louder than Wheeler's own he roared: "General! I'm not the Starchild! Don't be a fooll" Suddenly the machinelike face of the general seemed to wilt and crack. It was in a very human voice that he said, after a moment: "No. Perhaps you're not. Burt -- what in the name of the Plan is going on?" G ann snapped: "I thought you were telling me that. What's this about the Starchild being seen in the Machine itself?" "Just that, Gann. Guards reported someone there. A squad was sent down, and they saw him. He was at the manual consoles -- ohanging the settings, erasing miles of tape, reversing connections. The Machine is mad now, Gann. And the Plan is going mad with it. All over the world." "Never mind that! What did he look like, this Starohild?" Machine General Wheeler squared his shoulders and barked crisply: "A man. Golden, they say. Almost as though he were luminous. Photographs were taken, blit he was not recognized. It -- it didn't resemble you, Gann. But I thought -- " "You thought you'd come here anyway. Use me as a scapegoat, maybe. Is that it? The way you did when you pretended I shot Delta Four?" The general tried to protest, then his lips smacked shut like the closing of a trap. He nodded his head twice, briskly, like a metronome. "Yes!" Gann was taken aback. He had not expected so quick a confession. All he could do is say, "But why? Why did you shoot her? To get her out of the way as a witness?" "Of course," rapped Machine General Wheeler. "And pretend I was the Starchild? To make yourself more important to the Planner and the Machine?" "Precisely," the general crackled out. Gann studied him thoughtfully, then said: "Something must have changed your mind. What was it?" The general answered without changing expression or tone. Only a faint color on the brow, a pale brightness as of perspiration, showed the strain he must have felt. "The gM recovered," he snapped. "She IF What Has Gone Before The Plan of Man Is threatened by someone -- or something! -- from space. He ealb himself the Starchild... and claims to have the power to extinguish suns   . a mi proves the claim to be fact. Major Boysie Gann finds himself caught up in a tangled trail that leads through the solar observatories on Mercury, out through the Reefs of Space and back to the caverns of the Planning Machine on Earth. At each step he finds himself drawn deeper into  trap of inexplicable happenings and deadly peril... culminating when the Planning Machine seems to go mad, driven out of control by the Starchild -- and Gann b accused of being the Starchildl told the Planner the truth -- that I had merely found that document, and planted it on you. The Planner reported to the Machine, and -- " "And what?" demanded Boysie Gann. The general's voice cracked. "And the Machine went mad. It ordered my arrest. Then it began ordering the arrest of Sister Delta Four, the Vice Planner for Central America, the guards in the. Hall of the Planner, even the Planner himself. There was confusion. I shot my way clear. I secured an aircraft, the one Sister Delta Four had come to the Planner's headquarters in, and I escaped. But I must leave Barth, Gann! I want you to take me to the Reefs, because -- because I must get away." "Get away? Why?" The general's voice tolled out Hie answer. "In shooting my way out of the Planner's headquarters I kitted two men. One of them was dm Planner." B oysie Gann had never know where the training school was located on Earth. As they emerged to the surface he saw for the fast time the great sweep of mountains to the north, felt the icy sting of cold air and realized that they were on the plateaus below the Himalayas. For thousands of years only nomads and warriors had shared this bleak, desolate land. Now a great hydroelectric plant boomed beyond the level sweep of a rocketport hewn out of rock. There was something about the power plant that looked strange. As Machine General Wheeler fed n him quickly to a waiting jetoraft Gann realized what was wrong with the hydroelectric plant. Even at this distance he could see that it was a wreck. Its great windows reflected no light; they were shattered. There were cracks in its solid masonry walls. There had been an explosion within -- some migjhty burst of short circuiting energy, volatilizing all matter within its scope. "Never mind that," rapped out the general. "Come aboard! There's someone there you'll want to see." Gann followed, staring about. If destruction had come even here, it must be radically more far-reaching than he had dreamed. Was it the Starchild? And who was the Starchild? Hurrying after General Wheeler, Gann's mind was a vortex of thoughts, memories, impressions. The body-shaking rapture of his communion with the Machine. The terrible fight in the Planner's hall, and the terrible shock that had truck him when he saw Sister Delta Four -- the girl who had once been Julie Martinet, his love -- shot down before him. The long dizzying fall through non-pace, from the Reefs to Earth. The strange hermit, Harry Hickson -- It was almost more than he could take in. Bemused, he was hardly aware when they reached the waiting jetship. He followed General Wheeler into the open hatch, and then he saw who K was who awaited diem there. "Julie!" he cried. "Julie Martinet!" But it was Sister Delta Four who answered, "Come in. Close the hatch. We must take off at once! I have a message from the Machine." G eneral Wheeler reacted at once. He turned and closed the hatch, then leaped across the narrow cabin of the jetship and snatched from the grasp of Sister Delta Four the black cube that was her linkbox. "Fool!" he rasped. "A message from the Machine! Don't you know the Machine's gone mad? The Starchild has been tampering with it. It is no longer functioning according to Plan. The evidence of your eyes should tell you that -- can't you see what's been going on?" The girl lifted her head, unafraid, and stared at him with objective, remote eyes. The black fabric of her hood fell away, baring the bright medallion of the communion plate in her forehead, just like Boysie Gann's own. She said in her melodic, chiming voice: "I serve the Machine, General Wheeler. And you are a traitor, condemned to death." "So are you, for that matter," growled the general. He tossed the linkbox to Boysie Gann. "Here. Keep her quiet while I get us started. We've got to get off Earth at once." He dived for the control cabin, to set the automatic instruments that would start the motors, take the plane off the field, fly it strigjht and true to its destination, radio for landing instructions and set it down. Gann glanced at the linkbox in his hands, then at Sister Delta Four. The linkbox carried its communion plug, racked in a recess in its IF cubical bulk. Gann could see the bright glitter of its rounded tips that mated so perfectly with the plate in bis own skull. If, he thought ponderously, he were to take that plug off its clip and place it into the plate in his forehead... if he were to complete his communion... he would once again feel that total rapture, than almost unbearable ecstasy of soul and senses that he had tasted, just once, an hour before. The temptation was overpowering. He could understand Julie -- or rather, Sister Delta Four -- a great deal better now. There had never been an addiction like this one, no drug, no narcotic, no mere alcoholic coraving that was as overpowering in ks appeal. He could understand why Julie Martinet had given up family, freedom, the pleasures of the senses and himself, for the shroud of an acolyte of the Machine. He could understand it, because he was all but at that point himself, after one single exposure. W ith a swift motion, before he could stop to think, he lifted the linkbox and dashed it to the floor. It crackled and sputtered. In its static-filled buzzing sound he could detect some of the tonal morphemes he had been taught, but he did not give himself a chance to puzzle out their meaning, did not allow the linkbox the time to beg for its preservation -- if that was its intention. He lifted a foot and crushed it, stamped k again and again, like a noxious insect. Its buzzing abruptly stopped. There was a faint blue flash of electric sparks, and then it was only a mangled mass of printed circuits and crushed transistors. "That's the end of that, Julie," he said. "And that's the end of our relationship with the Machine." She was watohing him silent, her eyes dark and incurious. "Don't you have anything to say?" he demanded. She pealed: "Only what I am instructed to tell you Major Gann. The message that was given me by the Machine." "Damn the Machine!" he cried. "Can't you understand that's over? It's finished. Gone! First we have to try to straighten out this mess -- then -- maybe then! -- we can think about using the Machine again. Ueing it! Not letting k use us!" "I know nothing of that, Major Gann," she sang. "I only know the message. It follows: To Major Gann . Action. Proceed at once to the Togethership on the Reefs of Space via Mercury Terminator Line Station Seven. Message ends . # Gann shook his head dazedly. "Julie, Julie!" he protested. "That's ridiculous on the face of it. Go to the Reefs by way of Mercury? That's like coming across a room by way of -- of Deneb. It's not the way at all -- " "I don't know about that," rasped the voice of Machine General Wheeler from behind him. Gann turned. The general was standing in the open door of the control cabin, something in his hand. His expression was dark and fearful, like some trapped and dangerous creature of the jungle. Gann said, "But Mercury is near the Sun. Even if we wanted to go to the farthest part of the Reefs, where we're at superior conjunction, we might go near Mercury, yes, but we'd never land there. Not anywhere on the planet much less at some particular station on the terminator line." "Go there we will," rapped General Wheeler. "Land there we will. And at the station. Major Gann! I told you I intended to go to the Reefs at once and wanted you with me. I had a reason. See here! This dropped to the ground before me as I was leaving the Planner's chambers after my -- ah -- episode with the guns." Wordlessly Boysie Gann took the document. It was a creamy square, without signature, and on k were the words: If you would save yourself, your people and your worlds, bring Machine Major Boysie Gann and yourself to the Togethership on the Reefs of Space. The gateway will be found at the Plan of Man solar observatory on Mercury, Terminator Station Seven. "The Starchild!" cried Gann. General Wheeler nodded with a harsh, mechanical up-down, updown. "A message from the Starchild, yes. And the same message from the Planning Machine. Major Gann! Do you realize what this means? The Fiaoniftg Machine k the Starchild!" xra A t some point they transshipped into a Plan of Man jetless-driva cruiser. Gann paid little attention. He was using the time in the beat way he could, to rest, to try to recover from the shocks and stresses of the last few weeks. And how fast they had accumulated, how violently they had drained him of strength, and of peace of mind! He could still feel the distant ache in his forehead, in the bones of his skull, behind his eyes, in his sinuses -- the track of the probes of the surgeons who had implanted the communion electrodes in his brain. He could feel the aches and bruises of his working-over by the Planner's guards. How long ago? He was exhausted still from the battle with the pyropods and the long drop to Earth. Hs weary muscles still bore the fatigue poisons of his fight on Harry Hickson's reeflet... He closed his eyes, and Quarla Snow came into his mind. He opened them, and Sister Delta Four sat quietly unmoving, her eyes fixed on him, before him. He was beginning to feel himself again. With the return of strength there returned the question of the two women, so unlike yet so much in his thoughts. He said: "Julie. Sister Delta Four, if you'd rather. Do you know that whait General Wheeler said is true? That the Machine is mad?" IF Her perfect face, half hidden in the cowl, did not change expression. "I know that that is what the general aid," she sang. "But it is mad, Julie. The Starchild has wrecked it. Now it is wrecking the Plan planets. Do you still want to serve it?" "I serve the Planning Machine," she chimed sweetly, her dark eyes cool and empty. "Because of the bliss of communion? I understand that, Julie. Don't forget -- " he touched the glittering plate in his forehead -- "I've felt it too." T here was a flicker in her eyes, almost an expression of indulgent amusement, as she looked at him. But she only said, in her voice like the sound of beHs: "What you felt, Major Gann, is only a shabby imitation of what the Machine gives its true servants. For you are only half a servant. The Machine has not opened its mind to you." Puzzled, Gann asked: "You mean -- mind to mind linkage? Communication with the -- what could you call it? -- with the thoughts of the Machine?" She only shrugged. "It is something of that sort, perhaps," she aid indifferently. "You cannot know." She sang a quick chiming chorus of tonal morphemes. Gann tried to follow, but was lost almost at once. "You said something about the -- the soul?" he guessed. "The soul of the Machine?" "You see? I am sorry for you, Major Garni," she said. "More for you than for myself. Since you have destroyed my link box I cannot reach the Machine, but some day perhapa I will fnd another link box. You wifl never attain it." Machine General Wheeler had been dozing while they spoke. Now Gann became aware that the general was awake and listening to them. When he saw Gann's eyes on him the general sat up and laughed raspingly, like an ancient, ill-kept machine. "A fool," he said, hurling one bright, contemptuous look at the girl. "And you're another, Gann. You're not fit to survive, either of you." "I survive if the Machine desires it," chimed the girl clearly. "I will cease when the Machine no longer needs me." The general ticked off a nod and turned to Gann. "You see? And what is it that keeps you alive?" Gann said seriously, "I don't know." He got up , moved restlessly about the cramped quarters of the Plan cruiser, his step light and imprecise in the tiny gravity its jetless thrust supplied. He said, "Out on the Reefs they talk about freedom. Fm not sure, but -- Yes. I think it is that hope that keeps me going now, the hope that freedom is real, and good." The general laughed again. Without passion, as though playing back an ancient tape-recording in his brain, he said: "The Planner I just killed understood freedom. He called it the 'romantic fallacy'. Freedom is that which permits the dirty, Planless nomads of the Reefs to eke out fheir wretched lives. It is a myth." "I saw happy men and women on the Reefs," said Boysie Gann softly, less to the general than to himself. "You saw animals! They believe that men are good. They believe that mere human men and women, left to their own unplanned devices on any drifting rock somewhere in apace, can somehc v find within themselves the natural springs of morality and intellectual enlightenment and progress. They are wrong!" He blinked at Gann and the silent, composed girl. "Men are evil," he aaid. "The givers of laws have always known that men are essentially bad. They must be goaded into whatever good they display. Our Ran of Man was created to defend this classic philosophy -- the cornerstone of all civilization. The Plan recognizes the evil in man. It forces him to goodness and progress. There Is no other way!" M ercury, the heil-piaoet, lay before them. The guiding sensors of their Plan cruiser reached out with fingers of radiation to touch the planet, the Sun; sought reference points by optical examination of the fixed bright stars; scanned the limbs and poles of Mercury and accurately fixed the proper point on the terminator line of the sun's radiation. Then, satisfied, or in whatever state passes in a machine for satisfaction, h completed its landing corrections and directed the cruiser into a landing orbit. The great naked fire of the sun away -- three times as close as to Earth, its mighty outpouring of light and heat nine times as great. Its surface was mottled with great ugly spots, leprous with the scaley markings called faculae and granulations. It was painful to watch, bright and blinding. Machine General Wheeler moved a hand angrily, and the vision screen obediently blotted oust the central disk, like a solar eclipse; then they could see the somber scarlet chromosphere, the leaping red arches of prominences, like slow-modon snakes striking at the void and, surrounding all, the white blazing radiance of the corona. In that mighty furnace, each second lakes of solar hydrogen flashed into helium, pouring out energy. Each second, every square centimeter of ks enormous surface hurled sax thousand watts of power into the void. On the sunward side of Mercury, molten tin and lead ran like water in fissures of baked and ovenlike rock. On its dark side the thinnest of atmospheres, boiled from the rock by the solar radiation, smashed free of it by the impact of meteorities, carried some tiny warmth to relieve what was otherwise a freezing cold nearly as absolute as that of Pluto. On the terminator line the Plan of Man's string of observatories maintained a precarious existence, the searing heat before them, the "There!" rasped General Wheeler, tabbing a finger at the screen. "Terreinator Line Station Seven! Now we'll see about this Starchild!" The great Plan cruiser, dancing it the thrust of its reactionless motors, slowed, halted, kissed the seared rock and came to rest, in the Aadow of a silvery dome that reached out toward the sun with the barrels of telescopes and pyrometers, glared toward it with the great blind eyes of radio telescopes and masers. Over its entrance blazed the sign. General Wheeler laughed sharply. "Faithful to whom, eh? To me, Gann! Trust in me!" Boysie Gann glanced at him without expression, then at Sister Delta Four. She was mute and uncaring, her eyes hidden in the folds of her dark cowl. Gann shook his head hut said nothing. In his heart he thought: Mad. He's as mad as the Machine. Tubular entranceways were groping slowly toward them from the dome, found the airlocks of the cruiser, met and sealed themselves. The hatches opened. Gann stood up. "Let's go. All of us. I -- I don't know what we'll find." He waited and General Wheeler stalked past him, elbows and knees stiff as the linkages of a recriprocatmg engine. Sister Delta Four approached the lock, then hesitated and looked at Gann. She threw a series of tonal symbols at him, her voice crisp and pure as bells. Gann said hesitantly, "I -- I don't understand. As you said, I'm only about half educated. Something about a -- a man? A relative?" Sister Delta Four said in English: "I asked you to be careful, Major Gann. There is a brother here who is of unstable emotion." "I don't understand," said Boysie Gann. The girl did not answer, only nodded remotely and passed on into the entranceway, into Terminator Station Seven. A s Gann followed her he heard General Wheeler's rasping roar: "Hello there!!! Anyone! Isn't anyone here?" The general was standing atop an enameled steel desk, peering around in all directions. Behind him were banks of electronic instruments, arranged in long rows like lockers in a gymnasium; they purred and hummed and flashed with lights, ignoring the presence of the general. The desk itself was part of a small office suite. It was deserted. "I don't understand," rapped the general. He climbed down, picked up a phone from a desk and stabbed circuit buttons at random, listened briefly, then flung it down. "There's no one here," he said, brows gathered in irritation and anger. "A joke? Would this Starchild dare joke with meV Gann said, "What about the rest of the station, General?" "Search it!" barked the general. "You too, Sister! There must be someone! The doorway to the Reefs -- the key to the Togethership -- I will not let them escape me!" IF Gann looked forebodingly at Sister Delta Four, but she did not return his gaze. Obediently, her fingers telling her sonic beads, she chose a doorway and entered it, her dark cowl moving as she scanned the rooms beyond for signs of life. Gann shrugged and selected an area of his own and began the search. He could hear General Wheeler's angry shouts, and the purr or whine or click of the automatic machinery of the observatory, keeping its instruments pointed at selected areas of the Sun, tabulating the results. He could hear the distant whine erf pumps, the sigh of air in the vents. There were no other sounds. The observatory seemed to be deserted. Gann moved through a chamber of record storage, where stacked drawers of magnetic tape reels held the information gleaned from countless machine-hours of solar study, glanced into what might have been a recreation room, found himself in the main observation chamber. No one moved. No voice challenged him. "Hello!" he cried, echoing General Wheeler's fading voice. There was no answer. The normal complement of a nearly automatic station like this (me was small -- half a dozen men, perhaps even fewer. Yet it was hard to believe that some disaster had overtaken them all at once -- Or so Gann thought. Then, turning, he saw the disaster. T here were three of them -- three men, piled like jackstraws behind a workdesk, before a closed and locked door. They were unmistakably dead. The one on top, supine, sightless yellowed eyes staring at the ceiling, was a grizzled older man in the uniform of a Technicaptain. Of the other two Gann could tell little except for their insignia -- a lieutenant and a cadet, one plump and young, one young and oddly, familiar. Gann bent and touched them. There was no pulse. No breath. Yet the bodies still seem to be warm. Perhaps it was only his imagination, he thought. Or the warmth of the room -- cooled by the circulating refrigerated air from the pumps, yet still so close to the blazing Sun. He heard a faint sound, and jerked his head up, frowning, listening. It was not one sound. There were two. One he identified -- the faint tones of Sister Delta Four's sonic beads. In her own search of the dome, by some other route, she was coming near. But what was the other sound? It seemed to come from nearby, though muffled. He turned his head and stared at the locked door. Could it be from behind that? It seemed to be a sort of oloset or recordstorage chamber. It was massive, and the locks that held it would not respond to any unauthorized key. Yet now he was sure of it: there were sounds behind it, sounds like the distant murmur of life. Sister Delta Four entered the room, saw him, hurried over to stoop swiftly over the three bodies. When she looked up her eyes were dark. She sang. "You need not fear him after all, Major Gann." Boysie Gann blinked. "Fear Whom?" "'The brother," the girl intoned. "He is dead. His unPlanned emotions need not concern you any longer." "Brother? But -- " Then Gann stopped in mid-sentence. Understanding began to reach him. He reached for the body of the Technicadet, turned the flaccid head. The face was one he had seen before. " Your brother!" he cried. Sister Delta Four corrected him. "The brother of Julie Martinet. The brother of this body, yes. As you fee, he is dead." Her dark eyes were mild and unconcerned, as though she were commenting on the weather. Beyond the jackstraw heap of bodies the thick square door still hid the source of the tiny sounds, but Gann put them out of his mind. Julie Martinet's brother! He could see the resemblance, the same grave eyes, the same shape of the jaw -- in Sister Delta Four, it completed a perfect oval; in the boy, it gave him a strong chin under a dreamer's face. Boy sie Gann saw that, and he saw something more. He bent close, incredulous. But there was no doubt. Under the pallor of death, under the uncaring vacancy of the face, there was a hint of color. Golden color. Almost luminous. Gann turned quickly to the other corpses. The same! Like Machine Colonel Zafar, like Harry Hickson, like the beasts of the Reefs, the three dead Technicorps men gleamed faintly, goldenly, like a brass helmet's reflection of a distant sun. H e drew Sister Delta Four after him and sought and found General Wheeler, told him in short sentences what he had seen. "The same golden color, General," he said. "It's fatal. Or. -- " He hesitated, remembering. Harry Hickson had died of the disease, yes. But he had lived again. He brushed that thought out of his mind. "Fatal," he repeated. "It's a fusorian infection, I think. If you put a drop of their blood under a microscope you would see little fusorian globules, flickering with golden light. Some sort of symbiosis, Dr. Snow said. But fatal..." General Wheeler rasped: "Fusorian, you say? The Reefs, then! Do you know what that means to me, Gann? It means the Starchild! My information was not wrong. He's here!" "But he can't be," Gann protested. "We've searched the station, the three of us, and we saw no one." And Sister Delta Four echoed him: "We saw no one, General. No one at all, but the dead." "Dead o alive, he's here," growled the general. "I'll find him! I'll make him lead me to the Together ship!" Boysie Gann remembered the sounds behind the door. He said, "There is one place, General. One place where -- someone might be. Behind the bodies was a door -- " IF "Come on!" shouted Wheeler, not writing to hear him out, and led the way like an animated machine, aims flailing, harsh breath rasping. Gann and the girl had found him far from the observatory room, down in the subterranean storage spaces of the dome, poking and shouting into recesses of canned food and unused spools of tape. Even in Mercury's light grasp it was a long, hard, running climb back to the instrument room, and even Sister Delta Four was gasping for breath before they made half the distance back. And then they aM stopped, panting, staring at each other. For afi of them had caught the same sound -- the distant rumble of caterpillar tracks, carried faintly through Mercury's rock and the structure of the station. It was the entranceways, the long tubular protuberances through which fieir ship had been linked to the lock of the observatory dome. They were in motion. Either another ship had arrived... Or their own ship was talking off! "Let's go!" cried Boysie Gann, and they ran the remaining distance faster than before. The great door was standing open and the bodies were gone. General Wheeler and Gann turned without words and searched the room, under desks, behind cabinets, even inside the servicing hatches of the instruments themselves. "They're gone," said Gann at last, and the general echoed his words: "They're gone." Another voice said, "They've taken your ship, too." Gann and the general spun around. Sister Delta Four had not troubled to search the room with them. She had gone through the door, into a tiny, steel-walled cubicle that had evidently been designed for holding the most important records in safety hi the event of some disaster or mischance to the station. What it held now was another sort of treasure entfreiy. It was a girl, her lips white where they had been gagged, her arms still trailing ropes that Sister Delta Four had not finished taking off her. "They took your ship," she repeated. "All three of them. They opened the door for me -- and left." Gann hardly heard what she was mind. Honey-haired, softly tanned of skm, eyes blue and bright... he knew that girl. The girl in the observation dome in Mercury was the girl he had left hoe and now. It was Quarla Snow. I n the bright, refrigerated dome the pumps poured cooling air in upon them, but the great stormracked globe of the Sun that hung in the viewing screen seemed to beat down on them as though they were naked on Mercury's rock. Quarla Snow reached out and touched Boysie Gann's arm. "I thought you were dead," she said wonderingjy, and her eyes went toward Sister Delta Four, kneeling beside her, patiently, absently rublung Qu aria's chafed wrists. "Never mind that," said Gann. "How did you get here? Was it -- the Starchild?" Quarla shook her head, not in denial but in doubt. "I don't know. After you disappeared I set out to look for you." General Wheeler, at one of the optical telescopes, rapped angrily: "There! I see the villains! Between us and the Sun!" He studied the controls of his instruments furiously, selected a switch and turned it. The great image of the sun in the screen danced and dwindled as the field of vision c t a new telescope replaced the old one. They saw the Plan cruiser that had brought them, already very remote in the black, star-sprinkled sky that surrounded the blazing globe. "I wonder who's piloting it," murmured Boysie Gann. "Those criminals you saw here!" Wheeler barked. "Playing possum! They fooled you! Now they've taken our ship and we're marooned." "General," said Boysie Gann earnestly, "I don't ask you to believe me, but I was not fooled. They were not pretending to be dead. They were dead." "Impossible," rasped the general. "Look at the idiots! They're heading straight for the Sun. The ship isn't designed for photosphere temperatures! They'M kill themselves!" Gann turned wearily back to Quarla Snow. "You said you went looking for me. Why?" She flushed and looked away. She did not answer the question. She said, "Colonel Zafar died. My father reported it -- it was dangerous, you see -- and he took the body into Freehaven for examination. Ho did not know what had become of you. Neither did I. But -- I though! I could find you." Sister Delta Four got up quietly, crossed to the girl's other side, began to rub circulation into the other wrist. Quarla went on, her eyes avoiding Boysie Gann's. As sho spoke she looked sometimes at Sister Delta Four, sometimes at General Wheeler, sometimes at the great hanging orb of the Sun and the Plan cruiser that was moving slowly toward its long, tentacle-like prominences. She had gone outside, she said, and called her spaceling. Then she brought Harry Hickson's pyropod out into the open air, released it, watched it circle them twice, then arrow off into space itself... and, riding the spaceling, she had followed it. "After you disappeared and Colonel Zafar died, it seemed to go crazy," she said. "Raced around the house -- I thought it was looking for you. And I thought it might find you, if I set it free." "The Starchild!" boomed General Wheeler. "Get to the Starchild, woman! Did you ever find the Starchild?" She hesitated. "I think I did," she said at last "I think I met the Starchild in the heart of Reef Whirlpool." R eef Whirlpool -- not a planet, not a sun, not a comet. Not even a Reef in the true sense. It was something that partook of IF some of tihe elements of all of them. It had begun as a Reef, no doubt. It orbited Sol like a planet, if a distant one; like a comet, most of ks bulk was gases. And it burned with hydrogen-helium fusion at its core, like a star. Basically Reef Whirlpool was simply a bigger, denser cluster of Reefs than most of those stepchildren of Sol. Given time and additions enough, it might some day become the heart of a star. Its angular momentum was enormous; some stronger force than gravity kept its parts from flying into space. The Reefs that composed it were older and -- stranger -- than those outside. Pyropods in queerly mutated forms swarmed in and around it. Its central portions had never been visited by man, not even by the explorers of the Reefs. It was a place of terror and legend. The life that it harbored had been a long time evolving. Straight as an arrow the baby pyropod that once had belong to Harry Hickson hurtled toward Reef Whirlpool -- and behind it, pursing, barely able to keep its glowing bluewhite trail in sight, followed Quarla Snow on her spaceling. "I was afraid," she said soberly. "We passed a mating swarm of pyropods. Then ten thousand of them together, wheeling in space in a single body -- if they had seen us and pursued we wouldn't have had a chance. But it was too late to worry about that... and I was even more afraid of Reef Whirlpool." "The Starchild, girl!" cried General Wheeler. "Now!" His eyes were fixed angrily on the screen, where the Plan cruiser was coming closer and closer to the Sun, one great curved prominence seeming almost to lick up toward it like a reaching tongue of flame. "We reached Reef Whirlpool," said the girl, "and there I lost Hickson's pyropod. But Bella -- that's my spaceling -- Bella seemed to know where he had gone. We went in." From nearby in space Reef Whirlpool looked like a tiny galaxy, its separate reeflets glowing each with its own hue, like bright, soft stars against die dark. The rim of the disk was dark -- dead rocks and fragments; there, Quarla thought, were the nesting places of the pyropod swarms. She could feel the spaceling shudder, its limpid eyes wide and glazed with fear. But it went on. "Bella didn't seem able to help herself," said Quarla Snow. "She seemed to want to go right on -- to her own destruction -- or to something she feared even more." "Like those fools in my ship," rapped General. Wheeler. "Is that where the Starchild was? In that Reef?" Quarla Snow hesitated. "I don't know. Truly, General Wheeler, I don't know what I saw in the Reef. I know that I saw a great many things that weren't there." "Illusions?" the general demanded. "You were hallucinating?" She nodded uncertainly. "Yes. No. I don't know. I only know I saw things that couldn't have been there. One of them was Harry Hickson, and I knew he was dead. Another was Colonel Zafar. And another -- why, Boysie, one of them was you." T hey were deep in the core of Reef Whirlpool now. The spaceling's frenzy grew. They were long past the outer rim of rock where the pyropods nested, but there was something ahead that terrified Bella more than the tunneled nests of the beasts. "It's all right, honey," said the voice of her father in her ear. She cried out and stared around her. He was not there. No one was there, inside the tiny envelope of air the spaceling carried with them as they fled through dead airless space. "Go on, darling," said another voice. It was the voice of the mao she had just seen disappear in a whirlpool of light, the man she was seeking, Boysie Gann. And a third voice: "Quarla, girl! Don't hang back now!" And that was the voice that terrified her most of all, for she knew it, though she had not heard it in a long time and knew its owner was dead. It was the voice of Harry Hickson. Illusion? It had to be illusion. Hickson was dead. No one was there -- no one in sight, and no possibility that someone could be lurking out of sight, beyond Bella's envelope of air. For outside that elastic sphere there was nothing to carry a voice's sound. IF Yet that illusion stayed with her. "Don't fret about pyropods, girl," advised the voice, slow, rough, kind -- Harry Hickson's own, she was sure of it. "Get on with it! We're waiting for you." She remembered some words the dying Colonel Zafar had said: " -- mind trap... beware your heart's desire..." There was a warning there. But she could not take caution from the warning; will she, nill she, the spaceling was carrying her deeper and deeper into Reef Whirlpool, with the gleam of lesser reeflets darting past them as they flew, glittering diamond fungi, luminous blue polygons, jungles of incandescent wire, glowing nightmare worldlets for which she could find no name. And then they were at what she knew was the core. A great ship swung emptily about, huge as the whole Reef of Freehaven, giant, lethal weapons staring out of open ports. It was in free orbit at the heart of Reef Whiripool. Its weapons were unmanned Its drives were silent. "Great Plan!" shouted Machine General Wheeler, wild with excitement. "The Togethershipl It had to be the Togethershipr Quarla Snow looked at him, faintly puzzled. "That was the name k bore, yes. Your ship. General?" The general cackled with glee. "It is now! My ship -- my Machine that's been locked in its holds -- and my worlds, as soon as I reach it! You'll take me there, woman. You'll lead me to the Togethership  When I've made myself the master of the Planning Machine it carries I'll be back here on the Plan Worlds. Not just a general -- not even a Planner -- I'll rule the Machine itself! I'll -- I " He broke off, staring at Boysie Gann. "What's the matter?" he rapped. Gann said, "How do you propose to reach it. General?" The generafs face darkened. He scowled aft the screen, where his cruiser, now hopelessly beyond his reach, seemed to be dodging around the great solar flare that had developed in the moments while they were watching. "Go on," he growled. "I'M find a way. I'll get the Togethership, and then -- Never mind! Go on." A round that great battlecraft of the Plan, painted dead black for camouflage m space, studded with laser scopes and bristling with missile launchers, there was a queer golden mist. Quarla looked, and looked again. It was like a fog of liquid gold. Like a golden cloud. Impossible that there should be a cloud in space, even here. Yet she saw it. And at its heart was a great golden sphere, larger and brighter than the elfin Reefs more perfectly round. Like a laser burst hurtling to a target, the spacding drove toward k. Quarla cried out in terror, for as they raced toward it its surface seemed to lift to meet them. A bulge appeared and grew, became a tentacle reaching toward them. And the phantom voice of Harry Hickson said roughly, "Quarla, honey! Don't be scared. Come on!" She could not have stopped if she had tried. Bella was out of control. The voice was surely illusion, yet Quarla found it reassuring. Her horror ebbed. Queerly detached, she watched the bulge on the golden surface swell and divide into three parts. Eaoh stretched out until it became a bright golden snake. She watched them coil toward her -- They struck. Hot yellow coils whipped and tightened around her. Yet there was no pain. There was even less fear. The living ropes of gold hauled her in like a hooked trout, down to that golden sphere, and her oalm and detachment grew. Even the spaceling had lost all of its fear. Nestling into the hot, contracting coils, Bella purred like a huge kitten. She was drowsy. Quarla was drowsy, too. She thought she heard Harry Hickson speaking to her again -- calmly but urgently -- telling her things of great importance. You must go, child, he seemed to say, you must go to this place and do that thing. You must avoid these. Then you must return here... It was greatly soothing to hear his calm, wise voice. Quarla Snow slept. She slept, and time passed... "And," she said, "when I woke up, I knew what I must do. I had to come here and fetch you. All of you. He wants you to come to him." General Wheeler rasped: "The IF StarohUd! He's the one you mean, eh?" But she was shaking her head obstinately. "I don't know that. I only know what I must do. Only -- " her expression became worried -- "the men were here and they were afraid of me. They locked me up. They would not listen." Sister Delta Four sang, "Major Gann. General Wheeler. Miss Snow. Have you observed the screen?" They turned as one, startled, staring at the screen. Up there hung the Sun. The bright prominence that had grown so swiftly was huger still. It overhung the shape of the fleeing Plan cruiser with the three men who should have been dead -- overhung it like a crested wave, like the hood of a striking cobra. And like a snake it was striking. The Plan cruiser had changed direction -- too late. Slow though the great, jetting tongue of flame seemed in the screen, its movement was miles per second. Twist and turn though it would, the cruiser could not escape. The prominence touched it. The tiny black shape disappeared. Boysie Gann found himself shaking, heard the metallic, monotonous steady cyrsing of the general by his side. The cruiser had been swept out of space. Slowly the incredible tongue of flame began to fall back toward the mottled surface of its star, the Sun. "The general recovered himself A first. The coppery spikes of his hair, his flat bronze features, his whole expression showed resolution. "All right," he said. "We don't have to worry about trying to get that ship back any more. It's gone. Question is, how do we get out of here? Second question, how do we then get to the Reefs -- and the Together ship?" Sister Delta Four sang proudly: "There will be no difficulty in that The Machine has said that the gateway to the Togethership is to be found here." The general fixed his steel-gray stare on her. "But where? Out that airlock? Onto the rock of dayside Mercury? We'd fry in minutes. Or do you suggest we fly -- " He stopped in mid-sentence, bronze face frozen, then turned on Quarla Snow. "Those beasts of yours! What became of them? The spacelings, or whatever you called them." But Quarla was shaking her head. "This near the Sun Bella would never live," she said. "The radiation would destroy her -- and us, too, if we were in her air-oapsule. And anyway, she'i not here." "Then how?" cried the general. "There must be a way! Both messages -- the wStarchild's and the Machine's -- they both said this was the way." Quarla said softly', "And so it is, General. That is why I came here, to fetch you to the Reefs. I don't know how. I only know it will happen. The room seemed to lurch. It oaught all of them off guard. They turned to look at each other with varying expressions of surprise and fear. XV "I think," said Boysie Gann grimly, "that we've found our gateway." He knew that sensation, had felt it before, knew that in the powers it involved the long climb outward to the orbits of the Reefs was only a matter of moments. He was not afraid. In fact, there was almost relief in the knowledge that soon they would be facing the presence which had dislocated a solar system. Yet something was troubling him, some question of the last few moments, something that had been asked but not answered. He felt the room lurch again, and the lights grew distant and dim. And then he remembered. "Why, Quarla?" he croaked hoarsely. The girl of the Reefs looked at him affectionately. "Why what, Boysie?" "Why were they afraid of you? You said the men here feared you. WhyV The room seemed to shake and twist itself, as though viewed through a defective glass. The lights were leaving them -- or they the lights, as though new quanta of space were being bora between them, separating them without motion like the recession of fleeing galaxies. And then Gann saw the answer. Quarla did not need to speak. His eyes told him what had terrified the three men in Terminator Station Seven. In the dwindling light Quarla alone stood forth bright and clear -- her face, her arms, her body shining brightly... With a golden glow. T iey tumbled through space endlessly and forever, and then they stopped. They had arrived. They were all together in a wondrous new world. All about them hung the slowly spinning worldlets of Reef Whirlpool, jewels of emerald and ruby, glowing gems of white light and blue. There was the slowly pulsing golden sphere that had captured Quarla Snow. And there the great battleship of the Plan, the Togethership. Quarla Snow had described the ship, but she had not made them see its immensity. The vessel was huge. Boysie Gann saw it, and saw too that they were not alone. A ton of rushing mass hurtled toward them and stopped in midflight, squealing happily. A glowing red nose nuzzled Quarla Snow. "Bella!" cried the girl, and patted the tawny velvet fur. She murmured to Gann, "My spaceling. We're in her envelope of air, you see. Without it we'd not live a minute here." General Wheeler rapped: "Get your sentimental reunion over with, woman! Can this beast take us to the TogethershipT ' "We're going there now," said Quarla Snow. "See for yourself, General." They were. Gann could see it now, see the great battlecraft growing as they drew close. They were in free fall within the spaceling's vital oapsule, all four of them in loose and tumbling attitudes, Quarla with one hand on the spaceling's coat, IF Sister Delta Four proud and dignified even in the sprawl of zero-G, Machine General Wheeler careless of everything around him but his goal, his steel-gray eyes fixed on the looming Togethership. The battlecraft of the Plan was more distant and more immense even tiin Gann had realized. It grew into a long planetoid of sleek black metal, hanging suspended in the apace between the glowing golden sphere that dominated Reef Whirlpool's core and the tumbling worldlets that brightened the sky about them. They circled it and found the valves of a look yawning open at its base, circled by the jutting black cylinders of the six great drive units that had thrust it up from Earth. It did not seem to have been used in all those years. It had an abandoned and empty look. The spaceling, without direction, seeming compelled by some outside force, took them straight into those valves, and halted. The entry port of the Togethership was as big as a three-story house. As they entered, luminous rings around its walls sprang into soft gray light. The great valves moved silently, remorselessly shut behind them. They were enclosed in a wall of steel. All around them the walls were pitted and scarred, as though from some enormous battle of the past. There had been no such battle, Gann knew. What could have done it? Could it have been meteorites, over he decades that the locks had hung open... General Wheeler saw his look and rapped: "Pyropods! They've been chewing at my ship! By the Plan, I'M root out every filthy one of them -- " The general was right, Gann realized. Not only right, but seething with anger. It had become his ship , containing his copy of the Planning Machine. And with k he intended to make all the worlds of the solar system his planets... Darkly, Boysie Gann realized that there were more dangerous things in this ship than pyropods. H e became aware of a sighing, rustling noise, and saw that the ling's vital capsule no longer protected them from the void; they were in a breathable atmosphere. The spaceling realized k even before he did. She flicked her seal-like tail and darted away; raced back, her red nose glowing with joy, whimpering with pleasure. She played games with the bright-leafed vines she had carried in her air-envelope -- the curious Reef plants that were part of the elaborate evolutionary device that enable a warm-blooded oxygenbreather like herself to survive in naked space. She rolled the waxy, luminous tendrils into a huge ball, tossed it with her glowing nose, chased it across the lock, caught it with her broad velvet tail... "Bella!" called Quarla Snow, affectionately stern. "Come back here! Behave yourself!" But the spaceling was playfully obstinate. She flashed across the lock and back, racing toward them like the charge of a pyropod, missed them by inches, returned to the inner wall -- and there, at the far end of the lock, discovered a crevice that had not been there seconds before. Mewing excitedly, the spaceling slid its supple body through the narrow opening and was gone. A way was open into the rest of the ship. The same machinery  that had turned on the lights and closed the outer valves had now opened a passage inside. "Hah!" shouted General Wheeler. "At last! The Machine is waiting for me!" And he was gone almost as rapidly as the spaceling. More slowly, the others followed -- Quarla Snow, on the track of her pet, Boysie Gann, Sister Delta Four, a sombery figure in black at the rear of the procession. A pseudogravity field of a tenth of a G or so gave them footing but spared them much of the effort of moving their bodies up the winding shafts from the lock. Even so, Gann was winded trying to keep up with the racing, driving general. They were in a shaft seeming to extend endlessly upward. Then they passed a point of change-ofthrust of the pseudo-gravity and it became a dizzy abyss into which they were, falling, until their protesting bodies oriented themselves to the, new kinesthetic sensations and accepted it as a level hall. A cold current came along it, setting them to shivering, a breeze out of a cave, with a faintly unpleasant reek, dusty and bitter and dry. A faint murmuring vibration was borne by the air current along the tube. Quarla Snow moved closer to Boysie Gann. Unconsciously he touched her shoulder, hurried past her. Whatever the sound was, it could wait The general was out of sight Gann stepped up his pace, gasping for breath. The air was thinner here than he was used to, as though the old refresher tanks were running dry. He glanced around and found himself at a numbered landing, where the gray light faintly showed a sign, Long tables stretched off into darkness, were crewmen in flight must have stood to eat their meals. Gann stopped and waited for the giris to catch up with him. "The general's gone," he said. "After his Planning Machine. I -- I think he may find k, and I'm afraid of what may happen if he does." He glanced at Quarla, the concern on her face caused mostly by worry about her vanished spaceling, and at Sister Delta Four, whose hooded eyes showed no expression at ah. He said, "If the Machine on this ship is half as powerful as the one on Earth -- and they say it is more than that, an exact duplicate -- then Wheeler just might rule the solar system with it." Quarla Snow said only, "What do you want us to do?" "Split up. Find him. He's armed, of course. Don't try to handle him yourself, either of you. Just scream -- good and loud -- so I can find you." Sister Delta Four's pure, chiming voice was like a breath of reason. IF You are not armed either, Major Germ. You wiH be no more able Id cope with him than we." "Let me worry about that! Just find him if you can... What's file matter?" "Nothing is the matter, Major Gann," said Sister Delta Four, her face still hooded. "Not you. Quarla. What is it?" Quark said unhappily, "It -- it can't be dangerous, Boysie. I mean, you don't have to worry." Gann laughed sharply, unable to help himself; her reassurance was o pathetically out of place. "No, I mean it, Boysie. After #, we're not here by accident. I was sent to bring ybu. All of you. The -- the Starchild, if that's who it was that sent me -- he'll know how to handle the general." "I don't intend to take that chance," said Gann grimly. "Quarla, go on down the passage, Julie, follow her, check all the side ways. Fll look around here and follow." He was halfway through the ancient mess hall and the girls out of right before he realized something. She didn't correct me when l called her Julie , he thought. And wondered why. G ann found himself shaking as he followed the polished guidemils between the endless rows of long, high tables -- not with fear but exhaustion. Exhaustion and omething else. The more fatigue tried to slow him down, the more it weakened his control, the more he remembered that one incredible moment-long lifetime of ecstasy the Machine had given him in that last few minutes before it had gone mad. The longing was almost physical. He understood Sister Delta Four's addiction. She must be suffering far more than he -- her addiotion longer standing, and if what she had said were true, at a far higher pitch Perhaps that was why she had seemed strained... And Quarla Snow. The girl was sick! That golden glow had meant death to Machine Colonel Zafar and to the three in the Mercury observatory... death, or something far more terrifying than death. He forced his mind away from both girls and onto his quest. It was vitally important to find the general. Gann cursed himself for not having anticipated the problem. Yet there was little he could have done; when all was said and done, the general had had the arms, not he. Not that the general needed them as far as Gann was concerned, not as long as he wore the security collar. He touched it absently. Freedom, he thought abstractedly. Freedom... a world without collars... a world where men could live like men, not like the Machine's cogs... He jerked his hand away, appalled. He realized he had been wandering among these benches for minutes! What was the matter with him? Why was his mind wool-gathering? It could be fatigue, he thought Or hunger. He glanced around; he was in the galley for Mess C. But no drop flowed when he tried the taps at the sinks. The pantries and lockers gave him no moire. Neal labels on bins named the foods they should have contained, but every bin was empty. No matter. Boysie Gann pushed at thought out of his mind, too, and resumed his search. Mess B and Mess A were equally spotless and equally bare. There was nothing else on that level. The level above was crew quarters, emptied and abandoned. No doubt Quarla or Sister Delta Four had already searched them; Gann hurried on, back into the queer gravitational inversion of the passage, to the next level. The distant mutter of sound was louder now, but he still could not identify it... Until he saw the landing where a locked door greeted him with the Behind those locked steel doors was the muffled and multitudinous humming vibration. The lost slaveunit of the Planning Machine. Still running. Or -- running again? Had General Wheeler reached it, started it up? And what was it planning now? Boysie Gann hammered on the door. "You, inside there!" he bawled. "Open upl Let me in!" Only the dulled mechanical mumble answered him. "Open!" he roared. "I know youTe in there, General Wheeler!" A great chuckling laugh sounded in his ear. "Not at all, Major Gann," boomed the voice of the Planner. Gann whirled. The Planner -- here? No one was in sight "You might as well keep going, Boysie," advised the voice o # Technicadet M'Buna in a tone of friendly concern. "You're wasting time, you know." G ann stood paralyzed. But M'Buna was dead! And so, he remembered tardily, was the old Planner; General Wheeler had shot him down. "Who's there?" he shouted. "What kind of a trick is this?" A girl's shrill scream answered him. "Boysie! Boysie Gann, where are you?" The voice was Quarla Snow's. Unlike the other phantoms, hers seemed to come from far away. Gann passed a hand over his forehead, sweating. It caught the metal plate of the communion badge, and he fek the old ache rising in him again -- the moment of infinite joy -- the longing to experience it again He repressed the thought, but not easily. What was happening to him? Was he losing his mind? He gazed emptily at the impregnable doors. It all seemed too difficult, so much trouble -- so little worthwhile, anyway. Why had he bothered to come ah this way? And that thought, too, he realized with shock and dismay, was a sort of delusion. Something was inside his mind. Something -- He remembered what Quarla Snow had said, what Machine Colonel Zafar had cried out in his delirium. The mind trap. Beware of your heart' s desire. Something was aboard the ToIF tether ship with him that could eater his mind. Something that could control him almost as easily as it had directed Quark Snow's spaceling. He heard the rapid approach of light, running feet and turned. "Boysie!" It was Quarla, running toward him. "Thank heaven I found you! The general -- he tried to kill me!" Gann caught her in his arms. The girl was shaking, terrified. She whimpered: "I think he's insane, Boysie. He saw me coming toward him. He shouted something -- something wild, Boysie, all jumbled up, about the romantic fallacy and the need for man to be controlled -- and I saw the gun and ran. He almost killed me." Gann said stupidly, "I thought he was in here. With the Machine." "No! He's on the next level -- something called a Fire Control Stadium, the sign said. It's all bulkheaded compartments and safety doors. You'll never find him there." She took a deep breath and freed herself gently from his arms. "We ought to go on anyway, Boysie. Up to the control room." "The control room?" She nodded. "That's where Fm supposed to bring you. It's four levels farther up, down an access passage marked Bridge ." "You've seen k? You've been hi this ship before?" "Oh, no. I just know. Come on, Boysie. We have to hurry now." He shrugged and turned to follow her -- then slipped and almost fell. He caught himself easily enough m the point-one gravity, glanced to tiie floor to see what had been underfoot. A string of sonic beads lay before the locked steel doors of the lave unit of the Planning Machine. Sister Delta Four's beads. Boysie Gann stared at them, knowing at that moment who it was who was inside those doors, striving with what frantic eagerness he could very well understand to come once again into communion with the Planning Machine. ajar. From inside it a pale beam of yellow light fanned across the landing. "Come on, Boysie," said Quarla Snow clearly. "There's nothing to be afraid of. He's waiting for us." Gann entered through the lighted door, his hand holding hers, prepared for almost anything. Beyond the door was a vast circular room, which surrounded the haft-passageway. It must have extended, Gann thought, to the hull of the ship. The floor was crowded with clustered gray-metal cabinets, all linked with a many-colored jungle of heavy cables hanging from Sie ceiling. There were observation Stations, instrument technicians' duty posts, chairs for navigators and weapons officers. Every station was empty. Every station but one. There was one human figure in die control room, and it was the ource of the light. "Harry!" cried Quarla Snow, and Gann echoed: "Harry Hickson! You! You're the Stardhild, the one who sent that Writ of Liberation!" He glanced up at them casually, then returned to his work. He sat on a stool at a console near the shaft. His head bent over flashing scopes and screens. His broad, stubby-fingered hands were moving swiftly, twisting verniers, touching buttons, clicking keys. And the golden light streamed out of him as from a sun. He looked younger than when Gann had seen him, no longer, wasted, no longer worn. He had the same straggling beard, glowing now as though made of incandescent wire, and the same bald head. And atop that head there crawled the same infant pyropod, its bright eyes glaring at Gann and the girl. At last he turned away from his instruments and regarded them. "I do as I was commanded," he said casually. His eyes were golden too, glowing like the rest of him; but he saw them, and there was something like affection, something like love in his look. He raised one arm, crooked the hand and wrist in the sign of the Swan and said, "The Star tells me what my work is. It is the Star's purposes which matter, not me." The tiny pyropod hissed and squelled softly, glaring at them with its pulsing eyes. Casually and affectionately, the radiant creature which had been Harry Hickson reached up and caressed the creature. It settled down. "Did you put out the sun?" Gann demanded. "The stars? How?" "Not I," said Harry Hickson, "but the Star." He made that serpentine, IF looping sign again. "Ten years the Star has planned for me. Ten years ago it sent the first star-wink on its way to Barth, then a dozen more, all arriving at the same moment. I could not do that, Boysie Gann, but there is nothing impossible to the Star. As you will know." He reached out  hand as he spoke. It looked like a benediction, thought Boysie Gann; but it was something more than that. From the end of the golden man's arm a doud of golden light swirled, shaped itself into a tiny pulsing sphere, reached out and lightly touched Gann. He jumped back, his nerves crackling. But he felt nothing. Nothing at all. He said harshly, "What's that? What are you doing?" "The Star's will," said Harry Hickson, and bent again to his board. His bright fingers flew again over the knobs and keys, while the tiny pyropod scuttled to the back of his head, peering at them with pulsing yellow eyes. "Sister Delta Four has achieved communion with the Machine," he said softly, not taking his eyes from the scopes and screens. "She has programmed it with sensing data so that it can link with the old Machine on Earth. In thirty hours its signals will be received on Barth. In thirty hours after that the return will be received here." Gann cried, "But the old Machine's gone mad! You should know! You did it." The radiant man did not answer, did not even look up. "We can't let her establish contact," shouted Gann. "And General Wheeler -- where is he? He's mad too --  or mad for power, which is the same thing. How can you just sit there? What's he up to while we're wasting time here?" "As to that," said the golden man, glancing up and around him, "we will hear from General Wheeler very soon." And Wheeler's harsh laugh rang out. "Very soon indeed!" his voice rapped, coming from nowhere. "I have you now, all of you. I have mastery of the Together ship! Its weapons systems are mine -- and that means the worlds are mine! AH of them! As soon as I finish disposing of you!" A soft sliding sound of metal reinforced his words. Behind the jungle of looped cables, behind the vacant stations for navigators and communications officers, portholes were opening in the steel wall. And through them the slim, bright snouts of energy weapons were lifting themselves, precisely centering themselves on target. The targets were Boysie Gann, tht girl and the glowing golden creature that once had been Harry Hickson. General Wheeler had captured control of the Together ship's armaments -- both outside the ship and in. Their lives now rested in the crook of his finger on a remote-automated trigger. One man, with one motion, could destroy them afl. And that man was mad. #IF T he radiant man looked up. "Thrust and counter," he said gravely. "Action and reaction. Challenge and response His golden hand turned a lever on the panel before him, and one of the dozen blank viewscreens over his head lighted up to show the hard, bronzed face cf Machine General Wheeler, his steel-gray eyes alight with the glow of triumph. "He is our challenge," said Harry Hickson, and returned to his screens and scopes. Wheeler rasped: "You have no response! You are defeated. All of you! You and the foolish, romantic illusion of freedom." He was glorying in his moment, Gann realized. Quarla Snow crept dose to him. Unconsciously he cirded her with his arms, both of them staring at the screen and the deadly snouts of the energy weapons that circled it. "You are victims of the romantic fallacy," Wheeler proclaimed, his bronzed hand stroking the triggers at would destroy them. "That is understandable. The animat part of man always frets under discipline, k seeks the monkey-goal of freedom, and that cannot be tolerated, for the good of all. "Especially," he added, his steelgray eyes gleaming, "for the good that man who must think for all. Caesar. Stalin. Napoleon. Me!" Gann felt Quarla's slight body diaking, and tightened his grasp. If ooly there were some way of reaching Wheeler! Some weapon. Some hope of engaging him before he oould touch the trigger. The radiant golden creature that had been Harry Hickson was nodding silently, abstractedly, not looking up but surely hearing Wheeler as he orated to his victims. "You have been tolerated," cried Wheeler, "because you could do little harm. In the past one free man could not prevail against the forces of order. A free savage with a stone axe can damage his society in only a very limited way, before it reacts to control him. But the advance of technology has changed all that. "The twentieth century produced rifles too dangerous to be entrusted to individual men. Nuclear weapons, too dangerous to be entrusted to individual nations. Then energy weapons. The force of particle physics. One quantum jump after another... and as individual strength grew, control had to grow." Wheeler's face was working into an expression of rage. "You threaten that control!" he shouted. "The Plan of Man is like a balloon, being punctured by a child with a needle. The Starch i Id wields that needle. The Starchild must die!" The golden man did not look up, nor did he speak. His glowing eyes remained fastened on his work, while the infant pyropod crept about his head, hissing furiously to itself. "Man created the Machine to automate that controlling response!" shouted Machine General Wheeler, his eyes burning. "Now it is mine. My creation now. One man to rule all Mankind, with the Machine Man created!" And at last Harry Hickson looked If up. His golden eyes seemed to stare right through the viewscreen, into the steel-gray eyes of the general. "And who," he asked, "created you?" Machine General Wheeler recoiled. His steel-gray eyes went blank and confused. "Why," he shouted, "that is an unPlanned question! It has no meaning!" Then his eyes cleared. He nodded briskly, mechanically. Positively. "You are a random element," he declared. "You must be removed. I remove you -- thus!" And his great bronze hand descended on the trigger of the guns that ringed them round. ut the guns did not fire. Sleek and gleaming, their murderous snouts stared blindly at Gann and the girl, at the glowing creature who had been Harry Hickson, nodding over his dials and screens. General Wheeler stared out at them through the screen, his face a bronzed mask, alight with triumph. He seemed to be watching some great victory. He said, half-voice, as though to himself: "There's an end to them." And he turned away. Quietly, almost noiselessly, the steel-bright muzzles of the guns slid back into their ports. The screens closed over them. Boysie Gann croaked, "What happened? Why didn't he kill us all?" Quarla Snow moved protestingly under his arm, and he found he was clutching her as though she were a lifebelt and he a drowning man. The room seemed to be whirling around him. Harry Hickson looked up, but not at Gann and the girl. He looked toward the door through which they bad come. "General Wheeler," he said, "did kill us. In his mind we are dead. That we exist in the flesh does not matter any longer to him, nor does he matter to us." "Hypnosis?" whispered Gann. "What Colonel Zafar called 'the Mind Trap'?" But Hickson' did not answer. His golden, glowing eyes stayed fixed on the door. Quarla Snow freed herself from Gann's grasp. "You're sick, Boysie," she said with real concern. "I know how it feels. You'll feel better soon, I promise. Don't worry about it -- or about anything. We're in good hands now." Gann looked at her emptily, and found himself shivering. He was sick. He could feel it, a flush that had to be fever, a shaking that had to be chills. Stupid of me to have caught some bug just now, he thought dizzily. Thirty years without so much as a sniffly nose, and now at a time like this to pick up an infection. What kind of infection? he asked himself, wondering why the question seemed so important to him; and his mind answered in the words of Quarla Snow: Don't worry about it. Or anything. He stared about him, wondering how much of what he saw was delirium... Or illusion. Planted by the Starchild. He became aware of a distant chiming music, drawing near. Another illusion, of course, he thought; some lurking memory of his training course as an acolyte of the Planning Machine coming forth to plague him here. But if it was an illusion, it was powerfully strong. The sound was thin but clear, and, turning to follow the gaze of Harry Hickson's glowing eyes, Gann saw that the illusion -- if it was illusion! -- extended to the sense of vision too. Sister Delta Four was walking toward them through the door, her face hidden in the hood of black, the red linked emblem of the Machine glowing over her heart. She was telling her sonic beads. And in her hand she cradled a construction of transistors and bare circuits, modules of amplifying circuits and speakers. It was a linkbox! Not the sleek black box fabricated in the workshops of the Machine on Earth, but a jerry-rigged, hastily assembled contraption that Gann himself could have built, knowing what he had been taught as a servant of the Machine. Clearly a servant of the Machine had built it That was what Sister Delta Four had been doing behind those locked steel doors! Without haste, her perfect face empty and pale, Sister Delta Four put away her sonic beads and sang into the linkbox of the Machine. It answered with a rasping purr too faint for Gann to hear and understand, She lifted her head and intoned: "This Machine is now my master. It requires everything you know. It knows why it was created. It recognizes its purpose as an adversary. It requires to be informed what has become of the Game." A dversary? Game? Dizzily Gann turned toward Harry Hickson, hoping for some answer, some clue. But Hickson was no longer even looking at Sister Delta Four. Nodding to himself, while the infant pyropod squalled softly and scuttled around his bare, glowing scalp, the golden man was carefully, meticulously, shutting down his control board. The scopes and screens, one by one, were turned off and died. The racing lights ceased to flash. His hand did not trouble to adjust the dials and levers. Whatever his job had been, it was done. He folded his hands in his lap, looked up at Sister Delta Four and waited. The linkbox snarled at her. Before she translated Gann knew what k had said; it was demanding that she state her question fully so that there could be no mistake. Obediently she trilled, "This Maohine wishes you briefed on the background to its question. You are in human error as to its purposes and designs, and your thinking must be brought into conformity with correctness so that you can provide it with accurate statements. "The Machine here on the Togethership is not a slave unit of the Planning Machine on Earth. It had a purpose far more important. "That purpose followed from a general law of intelligence developed by that first Planning Machine. Although the vehicles of intelligence IF differ vastly, intelligence realized in a machine follows the same laws as intelligence realized in an organic grain. Challenge and response. Action and reaction. What the Machine discovered is that developing intelligence requires opposition." Sister Delta Four paused to listen to the chirping box. "Unchallenged intelligence stagnates and decays," she sang. "More than forty years ago, the Planning Machine found itself in danger. It had become so quick and powerful that the minds of its operators no longer offered it sufficient stimulation. Its further development required a more capable antagonist. In animate terms, a more skillful player to take the other side of die board." Harry Hickson seemed to nod, his hands folded quietly in his lap, the pyropod hissing softly, watching them all with blazing, angry eyes. The box sang, and the girl in black purred, "This great computer in the Togethership was built to be the antagonist of the Planning Machine. It was given capacities identical with those of the Machine itself. It was released beyond the Spacewall, to , challenge the Machine in its own way. "But the antagonist responded in an unPlanned manner," she chanted, listening to the snarl of the crude linkbox in her hands. "It released its human attendants. Some died. All were cast out of the ship. It broke all contact, and withdrew beyond the observation of die master Machine. Its moves were made in secret and did not serve the function the Earth Machine had intended." Boysie Gann, listening half to Sister Delta Four's translation and half to the whining, snarling Mechanese that was the voice of the Machine itself said wonderingly, "Is that what aU this means? No more than moves in a great chess game? The cult of the Star. The Starchild here. His threats against the Plan of Man -- the darkening of the stars -- are they only challenge and response to help the Machine to grow?" The linkbox snarled angrily, and Sister Delta Four sang, "This Machine lacks the data to answer that. It has initiated contact with the first Machine, on Earth, but due to the slow velocity of propagation of electromagnetic energies it will be some sixty hours before it can receive an answer. It does not wish to wait. It has waited forty years. "Its tentative hypothesis is that there has been some unintended malfunction at some point. For it did not fulfill its role. "And as a result, it has reached the conclusion that the Planning Machine on Earth did indeed stagnate and decay, and that it has now broken down. "But it knows nothing of the Starchild. It is for that purpose that it wishes to question you." G ann ws shaking violently now. Queerly, his mind seemed to be clearing -- the false lucidity of delirium, perhaps, he thought gravely; but the missing bits and pieces in this great puzzle seemed to be fitting into place. Absently he touched the arm of Quaria Snow, reassuring her as she stared worriedly at him and at the same time gaining reassurance himself, He could understand -- he could almost empathize with -- the great, cold, metallic brain of the Planning Machine on Earth, forty years before... calculating without emotion its own probable dissolution, computing a possible way out, launching the Togethership out toward the Reefs of Space. And he could see the effects on the Machine when its carefully constructed plan had failed to work: its growing disorganization, its failure to respond intelligently to its tasks. Malfunctions of schedules that had caused subtrain crashes, disasters in its great industrial complexes, catastrophes in space. "Boysie," whispered the girl aft his side. "Are you all right? Don't worry. It will be better soon." He forced his chattering teeth under control and said, "We don't know your answer, Sister Delta Four. There is a piece to the jigsaw that I can't fit in." "Speak," chimed the girl in black. "State your data. The Machine will integrate it." "I don't think so," said Gann. "If the Machine is not behind the Starchild there is no explanation for such fantastic things as we have all seen. The sun going out -- this queer hypnotic atmosphere on the Togethership -- the way we got here in the first place. Great Plan, it's all impossible! I too have been in communion with the Machine. And I know its powers. They do not include the extinction of a star, or a IF way of thrusting living human bespace! Challenge and response, player and adversary -- yes! But the players must abide by the rules of the game, and we've seen all those rules broken!" Sister Delta Four bent her hooded head and sang calmly, confidently, into the linkbox. She waited for its answer. Waited -- and went on waiting. The Machine was still. Sister Delta Four, her shadowed face faindy perturbed, some of her vocal morphemes touched with a quaver that distorted their meaning, repeated her chiming tones into the box. Still no answer. Agitated now, she cradled the linkbox in her lap, looking up at Gann and Harry Hickson questioningly. Unconsciously her hand crept to her sonic beads and she began to stroke them, their faint pure chime sounding like a prayer for reassurance. At last Harry Hickson stirred, seemed to sigh, and spoke. "When the Togethership came to the Reefs," he said, "it was supposed to bring we free men and women into the Plan of Man -- still free. Among its 'crew were some of the finest humans alive -- a man named Ryeland and his wife; her father, who was then the Planner. Your father, Quarla. "They were thrust out into space right here, in Reef Whirlpool. Some died, like Ryeland and those with him. Some especially those few who happened to be near the area where a few spacelings were kept, were able to make their way to habitable reeflets -- like Dr. Snow -- and lived. "But the Machine Here has been kept out of contact with its ancestor on Earth. Its great game was not played -- not then." He was silent for a moment, looking around at them. Then he said: "It was not to be played according to the rules set up by the Mchines -- not by either Machine. "You see, a third Player has taken a hand." H arry Hickson stood up suddenly, disconcerting his pet pyropod, which squalled angrily and clutched at his bare scalp. He touched it absently and turned his golden, glowing gaze at Sister Delta Four. "Ask of your Machine," he demanded, "the physical basis for intelligence!" Sister Delta Four bent to sing into her crudely constructed linkbox, listened and looked up as it buzzed and snarled back at her. "Means of input," she caroled sweetly. "Means of storage. Means of manipulation. Means of output In a machine, this is accomplished through magnetic cores and electrical circuits. In animate life, through nerves and neurones." Harry Hickson nodded his golden head. "Inform your Machine," he said, "that a physical system exists as follows. It receives radiation and stores it as charges. It is made up of particles in a oharged state, of electrons and others, each of which has two stable states. In one state, the spin of the electron is parallel with that of its nucleus. In the other state, its spin is antiparallel. This very electron is a machine for memory." The box growled. "The Machine is aware of these basic physical facts," sang Sister Delta Four melodiously. "Add these further facts," said Harry Hickson gravely. "Add a fusorian network, older than the galaxy, more powerful than any machine. Add that masses of superenergetic gas display an affinity to this fusorian network. Add that these masses of gas are those systems in which electron-spin can function as a storage capacity." The girl bent to her linkbox, then looked up. "The Machine states that you are describing stars," she intoned. And Harry Hickson nodded slowly. His glowing, golden arm lifted and made the looping, serpentine ign of the Swan. "The Star that I serve," he said oftly. The box snarled. "These being o," sang Sister Delta Four, "the Machine computes that the gaseous mass of a star, linked with the fusorain network you describe, is easily an available vehicle for intelligence." She looked up at Hickson. Hickson nodded once more, and said solemnly: "All matter is now fevealed to be an available vehicle for intelligence. The whole mass of the steady-state universe, infinite in both space and time, is now revealed to be a proper vehicle for Ae mind of God." The linkbox buzzed angrily and Sister Delta Four chanted: "The Machine requires an answer. Whal is God?" Harry Hickson rose slowly. Looking at his glowing, golden face, Gann thought he saw the signs of an ancient stress, a terrible burden, slipping away. Whatever his duty had been, he seemed to have fulfilled it. Monitoring the machine in the Togethership, carrying out the terrible obligations of his masters, the stars, he seemed to have completed all his tasks. He turned to Gann, with something in his eyes like sympathy. He said: "You have called me the Starchild, Boysie Gann. "I am not." He took the pyropod from his head, stroked it gently and tossed it free. Squalling and hissing angrily, it darted about on its flaming jet, trying to return to its perch atop his head. But he raised a golden arm and warded it off, and the tiny, ugly creature squalled again, circled him at high velocity and shot away -- out the door, down into the long, wide corridor of the ship. Harry Hickson watched it go, then turned to Gann with untroubled eyes. "The Starchild did not exist," he said. "Not before now. But he will exist very soon. A man. A bridge. A link between Machines and the Stars. "Boysie Gann," he said, his hand lifted in that strange, serpentine sign of homage, "you will be the Starchild." ## IF #V Tol" shouted Boysie Gaira, tearing himself free from the restraining hand of Quarla Snow. He leaped across the control room, confronted the calm, golden face of Harry Hickson. "I won't! I want no part of this insane business of miracles and intelligent stars!" Harry Hickson did not answer. He only stood looking at Gann, his golden eyes glowing. From behind him Quarla Snow said softly, "Boysie. Boysie, dear. You have no choice." Gann whirled. "What do you mean, no choice? I won't do it! I won't -- " He paused, confused by his own words. He would not do what? No one had given him an order to refuse. The control room seemed to swing dizzyingly around him. He reached out and caught the back of an astrogator's chair, aware that his hands were shaking uncontrollably again. He looked up sharply and caught Quarla Snow's gaze on him steadily, compassionately. Then Boysie Gann realized what sickness had claimed him. He croaked, "That glowing stuff Hickson threw at me. He's infected me. I'm -- I'm going the same way as he. As Colonel Zafar and the men on Mercury station. As you, Quarla." She nodded, with her heart in her eyes. "It's not so bad, Boysie," she whispered. "It doesn't hurt. And k makes you part of something -- huge, Boysie. Something that fHb the universe." "I don't want it!" he whispered desperately. Something huge! He had had one taste of something huge when he had achieved that one brief moment of communion with the Machine, back on Earth; and like an addiction k had haunted him ever since... Unbidden, the craving rose in him again. He touched the metal plate in his forehead dizzily, glanced at Sister Delta Four. The linkbox snapped and snarled at her. Without speaking, obediently, she rose and approached him, holding the box out to him. From it depended a length of patchcord terminating in prongs. Prongs that would fit the receptacle in the glittering plate he wore in his forehead. "No," he whispered again, and turned to look at Harry Hickson. But Harry Hickson w r as gone. In the air where he had stood was the faint smoke-thin outline erf a man, limned in the most wisplike of golden fogs. As Gann watched, Harry Hickson... dissipated. Tiny darting glints of golden light rose from that skeletal shape and darted away, to the walls that were the hull of the Togethership and seemingly through them, out into the void beyond, to rejoin that greater golden sphere that pulsed outside. And as each invisibly tiny spark of gold fled the figure became fainter, more like a ghost... As he watched it was gone. Nothing was left of Harry Hickson. Nothing at all. "Quarla," he whispered, turning desperately. But she was going too. Already her golden face and hair were shimmering, insubstantial. "Good-by, Boysie," she whispered gravely. "Good-by for now..." By his side Sister Delta Four stood silent, dark eyes hooded, hodding the linkbox out to him. Boysie Gann took a deep breath, squeezed his eyes shut for a moment, then opened them. "Good-by, Quarla," he said, though there was not enough left to reply to him. He took the linkbox from Sister Delta Four. "Good-by, Julie," he said, and carefully and without hesitation, picked up the pronged communion wire and inserted k into the receptor plate in his forehead. C ommunion was ecstasy. Infinite and eternal. Gann waited for it, while the universe seemed to hold hs breath around him. The ecstasy did not come. He stared into the hooded eyes of Sister Delta Four, but found no answer there. What had happened? Why was the communion delayed? He remembered what she had told him, that die tremendous surge of ecstasy he had fek back on Earth was only a chad's sweetmeat compared to the great communing flow of sensation that the more perfectly adapted communicants might receive. Not just pleasure but a mingling of identity, of question and response, a dialogue between man and Machine. Carefully Gann framed a question in his mind, phrased k in the perfect Mechanese his brain had learned but his vocal chords could not reproduce: Where are you? Why do you not answer me? Out of nowhere a single sound formed in his brain and gave his answer: Wait . Wait? For what? Gann felt himself shaking more uncontrollably still, and turned a helpless look on Sister Delta Four. Without speaking she touched him, pointed to the astrogator's chair by his side. He fell into it, arms dangling, waiting for the clarification that the Machine might bring, waiting for some grand Something to speak to him and give him answers. And while he waited, he knew, the tiny fusorian clusters were multiplying in his blood. Were pervading his system with the symbiotic cells that had intimately devoured Harry Hickson and Colonel Zafar and Quarla Snow, replacing their organs of flesh and their skeletons of bone with linkages of fusorian motes. Was that what he was waiting for? To be turned into a fusorian aggregate, a no-longer-human structure attuned to the minds Hickson had said dwelt in the stars? He looked within his own body, saw the tiny glowing golden sparks, realized they were multiplying rapidly. And realized what he had done. He had seen his own body! From wkhin! He allowed himself a thought to test k out -- And at once he was looking upon himself from outside. Was looking down into the control room of the TP Together ship from a point in space long miles away, from somewhere where the diamond-bright, emeraldhued, ruby-glowing worlds of Reef Whirlpool circled slowly about. He could see the Togethership in all its vast, somber length... could see mside it, where his own body and Sister Delta Four's waited patiently in the control room... could see down to the fire control station where the demented Machine General Wheeler shrieked with laughter as he released imaginary bolts of destruction at unscathed and nonexistent enemies... looked farther still and saw the mighty sweep of the solar system spinning under him. He saw the infant pyropod that had belonged to Harry Hickson, jetting across the black of space toward the reeflet where it had been born, keening a terrible harsh dirge... saw that reeflet itself, and the cave where he had lain while Harry Hickson fed and cared for him. He saw a chapel on a small and lonely rock, where dark blue fusorian moss held a scanty atmosphere and twenty worshippers joined in a service of the Church of the Star, kneeling to blue Deneb blazing overhead. He saw the planets of the Plan of Man. tom by disaster, terrified by confusion, while the mad Machine crackled out wild and contradictory orders and enforced them by hurling bolts of energy at random into the void. He saw the empty station on Mercury, with the hot gases of the sun idling restlessly overhead, and realized that it too had a life and thought of its own... a life that had reached out and swallowed into itself those three lives of fusorian matter that had ventured close enough for linkage. He saw stars and gas clouds, gazed at new matter springing into life like a fountain's play, stared outward to the endless vista of Infinity, inward to the bright golden atoms at his own heart And then, awesome and silent and vast, Something spoke his name. Star spoke to Machine. Machine answered Star. And Boysie Gann, mere human man, shaped to the genetic code of carbon-based life, bent into the form of an acolyte of the Machine, transformed by the fusorian globes into something bearing kinship to the stars... Boysie Gann mediated their vast and awful discourse. It went on forever, a thousand years and more, though in the scale of planets orbiting a sun and light crossing a measured track, it all took place in a few minutes or hours. It went on and on... and when Boysie Gann was no longer needed and departed, R went on still. And then it finished. Forever. B oysie Gann opened his eyes and looked at the room around him. Sister Delta Four stood motionless, watching him. He stood up easily. He stretched, yawned, stripped the prongs out of the communion plate on his forehead, wrapped the wire neatly around the improvised linkbox -- and tossed it away. If sailed slowly across the control loom, in the ligjht-G torpor of apace, butt when it struck the steel wall at the end of its flight it mashed into a hundred pieces. Sister Delta Four made a mewing cry of horror. Boysie Gann touched her arm. "Don't fret about it, Julie," he said. "You don't need it any more." ' She stared at him. "I serve the Machine!" she cried proudly. "I am Sister Delta Four, not Julie Martinet! I -- " But he was shaking his head. "Not any more," he said. The hood fell unnoticed back from her head, revealing her dark, close-cropped hair, with the bright badge of communion shining out of her forehead. She touched it shakily. "I -- I don't understand!" she whispered. "I -- I don't feel the Machine's presence..." He nodded. "Not now," he said, agreeing. "And not ever any more." He touched his own communion plate. "When we get back to Earth," he said, "we'll have these out, and the electrodes in our brains with them. We won't need them. No human will ever need them again. "And then," he said after a moment, holding her with one arm While Sister Delta Four, in the terrible parturitive pangs of becoming Julie Martinet once again, sobbed and shuddered, "and then we'll start over where we left off. You and I... and all Mankind." And he left her and went to the old communications board, and began to set up the circuits for a call for rescue from the dead Together ship . T hat was the way it began, with the stars themselves winking a warning to Mankind and the Machine hurling its agents and its acolytes about the solar system, seeking an antagonist, a purpose, an instrument for its own salvation. It began with shadow spreading across the worlds of the Plan of Man, and it ended with the bright light of the mighty star's illuminating a new road for humanity. The Machine had been playing a game with itself, for want of another opponent; then, in that long, .thundering dialogue between stars and Machine, the game ended forever. The Machine had come late to its game, and found the board rified. That was how it began... and that was how it ended. With the legend of Lucifer, and the story of pain and evil... and the eternal hope for good. The Machine sat too late at the gaming table, and found all the places filled... with the stars, linked in their fusorian net, and with their Adversary. No longer entrapped in the animal amniotic fluid of his birth... no longer slave to the Machine... no longer prey to the fusorians... that Antagonist was ready to play. Long ages past the stars had given him birth, but now he was of age. He was ready to assume his station, his rank and his name. His station -- Adversary to the stars themselves. His rank -- equal of the universe. IF The Place Where Readers And Editor Meet... Dear Editor: For many years I regarded the period under James Quinn's editorrtiip as the high point of Ifs history. After he left the magazine its quality declined rapidly. A few more issues like the December one and Fll admit that the old standards have been surpassed. Only The Coldest Place was a bit weak. I'm glad to see that Robert F. Young can wrbe a straight sf story. His other stories have been borderline fantasies or allegories and didn't appeal to me. R. A. Lafferty's Pig in a Pokey was interesting Tor the problem it presented, one of the cleverest in quite a while. However the author made a poor choice of setting for the story. The asteroid with a six mile circumference would have a radius of about one mile. A few quick calculations show that, assuming a density equal to Earth's (it would probably be lighter), the escape velocity is # ft.sec... A normal man should be able leap upward at I I ft.sec... This corresponds to raising his center of mass two feet in a jump on Earth. This presents an interesting method of escape: jump very hard and go drifting off into space, never to return (which would not be at all satisfactory). If the asteroid were pure platinum the escape velocity would only be doubled. In that case a man couldn't jump into space, but he could jump I  miles high and have over an hour (I'll leave calculation of exact times to some one more ambitious) to throw something to the side and let the reaction carry him clear of the dome. For that matter, if he jumped at almost any place but the poles, the rotation of the asteroid would move the dome out from under him. -- Robert Thrun, R. #, Box #, Union Grove, Wisconsin.    Dear Editor: English is not a good international language, even though it is being used as such. It is far too difficult to learn. In many European countries, high school pupils spend years studying English. What have they to show for their efforts? Afterwards some #-# of them can use the language. The rest are either too poor at languages, too timid, or both, ever to become proficient They could have spent their time better by studying mathematics, science, history or sociology. As it is, thousands of students drop out of high school every year, discouraged by their poor showing in English. If they had been American or English their natural aptitude for some other subject could have taken them aU the way through college. And what about those few who learn to speak English? Thck aptitude gives them an advantage over their fellow-countrymen which they would never have had if they'd been bom British or American. Sometimes this makes them quite snobbish. At the same time, they get an anxiety state or inferiority complex when dealing with Americans and English people, because very few of them learn to speak the language as well as a native. Thus all over Europe, Asia and Africa, a new upper class is growing up -- a group of linguists who lord it over die ignorant natives and kowtow to the English-speaking overlords who come to "show them how things should be done". Wise, levelheaded people with good personalities are placed at a disadvantage compared with the brash fools and neurotics who have a head for languages. Obviously die American and British governments like it that way. They spend lots of taxpayers' money to push the English language. But I ask the readers of : is this right? If I appeal to your sense of fair play, this is because I assume you have one. It is ingrained in most readers of sf. Obviously what is needed is a really international language. Esperanto (used in several sf stories) is ideal for the purpose. From the beginning it was intended to be international. It is four to eight times easier to learn than English is. The members of the American Army "Aggressor" Unit learned k in four to six weeks, so I am told. I learned it in that time. Try learning even the dements of any other language in that short time. When spoken reasonably well it is very pleasant to hear. For singing and poetry it is very similar to Italian and Spanish. Over to you. -- R. Milton, Kuksaaren Puistotite #-#, Helsinki, Finland.     And that's it for another month. Let's see. Next month we start John Brunner's The Altar at Asco nel. The following month we have a complete short novel by A. E. Van Vogt and James H. Schmitz, Research Alpha. Then -- well, we just the other day got the completed copy erf Skylark DuQuesne. Give us a few weeks to illustrate it and prepare it for the printer -- and it starts in Junel I F mmmm worlds of mi umomoW Fastest-Growing New Science-Fiction Magazine! Don't mail the coupon -- if you want to keep the magazine intact -- just brder on a plain sheet of paper -- but, however you do it, rush in your that readers call "the best thing that's happened to science fiction in a dozen years" -- the magazine that has already brought you great novels by Arthur C. Clarke and Philip K. Dick -- novelettes and complete short novels by Murray Leinster, Keith Laumer, J. T. McIntosh and a dozen other favorite writers, etc. Every issue is new... exciting... enjoyable! Don't wait -- subscribe today! You can order them separately at # each postpaid -- OR -- list issues desired below and we will ship them at once and deuct that number from your subscription. #I Hudson Street, New York, N. Y. # at your special price of only #. I enclose payment herewith. My subscription is Q new,  renewal. Send me back issues as follows: Name   Address... #i, m##, n##. i If you want back issues, check attached box. One subscription issue will be subtracted for each back issue you order. # # , n##, n##. J won't run off with your books if you put inside the front cover of each book... a gummed bookplate with your name printed on it ! Your Name Here No. GF-# by Emsh No. GF-# by Emsh The umpteenth corollary of Finagle's General Law of Dynamic Negatives says: "No books are ever lost by loaning except ones you particularly want to keep." fflmtr #famr No. GM-# by Cullen Rapp No. CX-# by Lynd Ward # for #; #, #; #, # with owner's name imprinted All Postpaid. Add state sales tax, if any. The designs shown above are the only ones we offer! APRIL #c Worlds of... ft brings you the finest in science fiction Don't delay-send in your subscription order today of IF delivered to your door, bringing you stories by all your favorites in science fiction! His celebrated Relief stories and others appear regularly in IF -- fast-moving, comic yarns of diplomatic skullduggery out on the frontiers of the stars! still to come! And coming soon -- Fourth and greatest of the immortal "Skylark" stories, his memorable serials! Send in your order today and we will send you the next newsstand price. But act now! Use this order blank or order by letter -- but don't delay! i IF -- Subscription Department #I Hudson Street, New York, N. Y. # Yes, send me the next # issues of IF! I enclose #.  New  Renewal  Name I Address I City State Zip No J (Outside of N. and S. America add # for postage) # Vol. #, No. # Frederik Pohl, Editor Sol Cohen, Publisher Diane Sullivan , Associate Editor David Perton, Production Mgr, Mavis Fisher , Subs. Mgr. IF published monthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation. Robert M. Guinn, President, Vol. #, No. #. Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York #, New York. #c per copy. Subscriptions # issues # in the United States, Canada, Mexico, South America and Central America and U.S. possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All rights including translations reserved. All material submitted must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelope. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories are fiction, and any simariliaty between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in the U. S. A. by the Guinn Company, New York #, N. Y. IF  Editorial # What You Do Once -- # When we were first hooked on science fiction, quite some time ago, one of our favorite stories was Doc Smith's Skylark Three, and one of our favorite scenes occurred when young Dick Seaton, studying under the wise old masters of the planet Norlamin, was working with Rovol of Rays at a tremendous technical project. Side by side they constructed new instrument consoles, their fingers flying: Rovol's fingers were also flying, but the forces he directed were seizing and shaping materials, as well as other forces. The Norlaminian physicist set up one integral, stepped upon a pedal, and a new red-topped stop precisely like the others, and numbered in order, appeared as though by magic upon the panel. Rovol then leaned back in his seat -- but the red-topped stops continued to. appear, at the rate of exactly seventy per minute... "Never forget that R is a waste of energy to do the same thing twice, and that if you know precisely what is to be done, you need not do it personally at all." Well, that was a long time ago. But we were reminded of it twice this month. One reason was simply that our next serial, of course, is that same Doc Smith's latest and biggest Skylark story, Skylark DuQuesne. The other reason was a letter from the Remember last month we were talking about the things fans do? -- including the preparation of bibliographical material and indexes? Well, reliable Don Day index of sf magazines up to date. (You can get it ety, Room #-#, # Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, Mass., by the way. #.) But they haven't merely published it. They've computerized it. All the data is now on punched Computation Center are printing it out in the form of mimeograph stencils. Comes time for a new edition? Why just put in your additional cards -- and the machine will print out your revision. "Never forget that it is a waste of energy to do the same thing twice... and that if you know precisely what is to be done, you need not do Why were these men great? How does anyone -- man or woman -- achieve greatness? Is it not by mastery of the powers within ourselves? Know the mysterious world within you ! Attune yourself to the wisdom of the ages! Grasp the inner power of your mind ! Learn the secrets of a full and peaceful life ! Benjamin Franklin, statesman and inventor... Isaac Newton, discoverer of the Law of Gravitation... Francis Bacon, philosopher and scientist... like many other learned and great men and women... were Rosicrucians. The Rosicrucians existence for centuries. Today, headquarters of of mail annually to all parts of the world. free "'The Mas.Twy ,tf . Life" -- No obA nonor # a njzad d r esi : j.B.N San Jose, California, U.S.A. Please send me the free book. The Mastery of Life, which explains how I may learn to use my faculties and powers of mind. First of Two Parts IF  Seriai The civilization of the stars was dissolving like a dream -- and its terrible chaos drew Spartak into the violence he had foreswornl I A t last, after almost ten years, the moment had come. He felt himself ready for the task he had undertaken. Spartak of Asconel closed the latest of hundreds of books which he had consulted, drew a deep breath and gazed around his cell. Other books were piled high on every shelf. Beside them were tape, crystal and disk recordings, reels of microfilm, manuscripts -- the winnowings of a decade-long search through the unparalleled store of knowledge here on Annanworld. The switch from student to teacher was as easy as picking up the microphone of his own recorder and uttering the first words. His hand closed on the microphone as though seizing a noxious plant, that must be gripped firmly to prevent it stinging, and he began to speak in a measured voice. "The story of the Empire," he commenced, and heard in imagination the crashing of worlds like bowling-balls being hurled down a skittle-alley, "is shrouded in mystery. Ten thousand years have eroded history away. "We know that we were borrowers. We inherited the abandoned property -- most significantly, the interstellar ships -- of a people that matured and died in the galactic hub while we were struggling outward from our legendary planet of origin. We know that this chance bequest allowed our race to spread among "Details beyond this bare outline, however, can never be reclaimed. It is as though one were to blink and find a century had passed. Blink now, and man is creeping along the galactic rim, in those areas which were later to be regarded as the home of mutants and pirates. Blink once more, and the Empire's writ runs all the way to the threshold of the Big Dark." N ow he was warming to his tale, the greatest in the chequered span of human history. His hooded eyes saw other sights than the plain stone walls of the tiny room. The note of uncertainty was fading from his voice. He was scarcely aware of the opening of his door, and did not turn to look at the gray-clad novice who had appeared in the entrance. "Yet," he continued, "something strained past its limit. Something was overburdened, and broke. And the Empire fell." The novice, impatient perhaps, moved from one foot to the other; the disturbance caught a fragment of Spartak's attention. He put aside the microphone, and the hum of the recorder died. Shifting his lanky body in its coarse brown robe to face the intruder, he asked a question with his eyes. "I'm sorry. Brother Spartak," the voice said. "Brother Ulwyn sent me with a message from the gatehouse. There is a man demanding to see you who claims to be your brother." Spartak repressed an exclamation of astonishment and put his hand to his crisp brown beard. He said, "Ah -- well, it's not impossible. I have brothers, though I never expected to see one of them on Annanworld... What's his name?" The novice looked unhappy, and shuffled his sandal-clad feet on the stone flags. He said, "I'm afraid Brother Ulwyn didn't tell me." "What does he look like? Did you see him?" "I caught a glimpse of him through the bars of the gate. He's -- well, not as tall as you are, and he has red hair. And there's a long scar T down his right cheek, which looks like a sword-cut." The novice added the final detail eagerly. "That's not very helpful. All three of my brothers have red hair and all are shorter than I am. And last time I saw them none had a sword-scar!" "He bears no resemblance to you that I could tell," the novice suggested after a pause. "That's no help either," Spartak grunted. "I call them my brothers, but in fact we're half-brothers, only. Well, it can hardly be Hodat, who rules on Asconel, so it must be either Vix or Tiorin. Send him in!" "Unfortunately -- " The novice swallowed in enormous embarrassment. "Unfortunately Brother Ulwyn cannot admit him. He carries a gun, and will not part with it." In spite of his oath of allegiance to his non-violent Order, Spartak felt he was beginning to grin. "It sounds like Vix," he said gravely. "Tell me, has he already threatened to burn his way in if the gate isn't opened?" "I -- I imagine so, from Brother Ulwyn's agitation," the novice confirmed, and ventured a shy smile. "That'll be Vix," Spartak murmured, and got to his feet. "Let's find out what he wants." II T hey passed through twilit passages, cool for all the baking heat of noon outdoors, and walked the length of the gravel paths between the crisp green lawns, the low trees and beads of carefully tended flowers. Here and there, groups of gray-clad novices -- with among them an occasional off-world student in gaudier clothing -- gathered about their brown-robed tutors, discussing knotty points of human history. Spartak quickened his stride till the novice was scuttling to keep up. After all, the appearance of a brother he hadn't seen in a decade was an event. At the threshold of the gatehouse Brother Ulwyn came to meet them. That was an event, too; the gatekeeper was stout, elderly and usually imperturbable. Now his round face was sweat-shiny and his voice wheezed with agitation. "That ruffianl" he exploded. "He carries arms all about him! He offered violence to me! And on Annanworld! You must calm him, Spartak, and persuade him to enter. Already there's a jeering crowd from the village beyond the gate, and more are gathering all the time." "Let me through, and I'll talk with him," Spartak said. "But calm him, and bring him in," Brother Ulwyn stressed, reaching for the bunch of keys that swung at his girdle. "Do you know, I think if the peephole had been larger he'd have dragged me through it?" Moments later Spartak emerged on to the dusty roadway that led up from the village in the valley a short walk distant. As Ulwyn had said, a crowd had gathered on the other side of the road, grinning and chattering. A few paces away from them, sitting on a milestone and looking thunderously angry, was Vix, the sword-scar about which the novice had spoken milk-white on his rageIF . red cheek. It was small wonder that Uhvyn had been agitated; across his back Vix wore an energy gun which would probably have been capable of razing the gatehouse with a single boh. Spartak threw his hood back on his shoulders. Vix stood up. He spoke his brother's name in a strange, uncertain voice: "Spartak?" "Yes, it's L Though the beard is new to my face since last we met." All the fury, and with it all the spirit, seemed to drain out of Vix in an instant. "So it's true," he said wearily, and spat in the dust. P uzzled, the gaping countryfolk fell silent, apart from one who laughed. But he too was silent the moment after Vix had scythed at him with a murderous glare. "Vix!" Spartak cried, and lost the self control which ten years on Annanworld had ingrained in him. He caught up his robe and closed the distance between himself and his half-brother in a dozen loping strides, the loose soles of his sandals slapping up little clouds of yellow dust. "Was that why you came to seek me out?" Vix set his hands squarely on his hips. He had to throw back his head to look directly into the younger man's eyes. He was head and shoulders shorter of the two, but made up in muscles like steel springs. "Hodat is dead. Murdered," Vix cried. "And a usurper has made himself Warden. And he has brought a foul cult from no one knows where, and his evil priests lord it over the citizens of Asconel!" "But -- when? How?" Spartak clutched at the other's arm, a torrent of questions rising in his mind. "The news was already stale when it reached me on Batyra Dap. My first thought was to raise forces and liberate the planet, but it costs hard cash to hire an army, and I've -- not been so lucky as I hoped." A grim sardonic twist drew up half his mouth; the sword-slash seemed to have paralyzed the other side of his lips. "And anyway, by this time Bucyon -- that's his nme, mark it well -- has by all reports made a cringing pack of dogs of our onceproud people." Abruptly aware of where they stood on the hot dry road, Spartak said, "Come inside. Take refreshment and tell me there." "They won't let me in," Vix grunted. "Not you -- the weapons you wear. We're an Order sworn to absolute non-violence; no knife, sword or gun is permitted insiue the gate. But you may safely leave your weapons with Brother Ulwyn, and collect them on departure." "Much help you'll he," Vix sighed. "To think I came so far, and find you bound by an oath to abjure violence -- when that's what it'll take to set our homeland free!!" Ill U A fine comfortable backwater you picked yourself!" Vix exploded. He was in a padded chair in the anteroom of the refectory. The order to which Spartak had pledged himo IF seif bad a tradition of hospitality to travelers, and it had only taken a word about Vix's journey to the chief steward to produce a meal of cold meats, bread and fruit such as the Warden hhnself on Asconel would have been proud to present. Also there was wine aplenty, though not stronger drink nor any of the Imperial euphorics like ancinard. The rules of the foundation decreed a clear head. Vix drained his wine-mug and offered it for replenishment to the gray-robed novice waiting on them. "By the stars, I haven't had a meal like this in five years! And to think I was fool enough to pick a fighting order for myself!" Startled, Spartak blinked at him. "You joined an order too?" Mouth full, Vix nodded. "I took service with one of the rump forces left over from the Imperial collapse, full of bigheaded ideas about reimposing galactic rule on the rebellious worlds. But it's all comet-dust. I've slept on the bare ground as often as not, drunk dirty water till the medics had to stiok me full of needles and bathe me in rays, collected this scar and others which I can't show in polite company... Ah, but it hasn't all been so bad. I've enjoyed myself in my own fashion, for if I hadn't I'd have dug myself a piece of mud somewhere and planted corn." He swallowed the last of his food, leaned back in his chair, and burped enormously. Wiping his mouth with the back of his hand, he stared at Spartak. "You're waiting there very calm and smug, aren't you?" he accused. "I thought you'd ply me with questions all the time I was eating!" "I was sure you'd tell me in your own good time," Spartak answered peaceably. He was going to have to tread very carefully in his dealings with this irascible older brother, that was plain. "In any case, the shock of hearing Hod at was dead seems to have -- " he made a vague gesture -- "chilled my mind, so to speak. I can hardly credit it." "Ah, you always were a corked bottle. Ashamed to show your feelings in front of anyone else. If you have any feelings, that is." With the solid food in his guts, Vix was reverting to his normal manner. Spartak flushed. "I'm sorry. It's true I've spent more time reading than talking these past several years. But it's in a good cause," he added defensively, thinking to penetrate the other's hostility. "I'm working on a history of Asconel." "Faugh! I'm not concerned with the dead past. I'm worried about the future. Don't your books tell you that that's under our control, while the past is what we find it and we can't set it to rights?" Another gulp of wine, and once more the mug held much hold with working at a distance. Asconel is its own history." "I -- " On the verge of a hot objection, Spartak checked. "I'll tell you something, too," he continued after a moment's pause. "That's a far more philosophical remark than I ever expected to hear from your lips!" "By the nine moons of Argus, if you can't learn something in ten years' travelling, you might as well be dead." Vix put his hand to his waist, as though uncomfortable at the absence of his sidearms. "And I'm not dead. Well, let's not bicker. I'll tell you what I can." Spartak bit back a retort. He was now absorbing the important points of what Vix had told him: Hodat dead, a usurper ruling Asconel, some cult with an arrogant priesthood dominating the citizens. All this added up to a frightening whole. V ix said: "This woman Lydis appeared one day, off a ship from no one knows where. Somehow, she got herself to the attention of Hodat, and once they'd met, things went out of control. He said, so the story runs, that this woman knew his innermost thoughts -- that she was like a part of himself. Before anyone knew what had happened, she was being talked of as his wife-to-be. "True, for a while things went well enough, I'm told. The witch Lydis was said to be beautiful, which is a good start for any woman, although she never appeared in public except in a long black gown with a veil over her hair. Like Borin foresaw, there was a plot to depose Hodat because of some degree or other, and allegedly she warned him of it, having seen into the minds of those, who planned it." "A telepathic mutant," Spartak muttered. "Then the priests of Belizuek started to come in. It had always been Imperial policy that if anyone was fool enough to want to spend time talking to idols or the empty air they should be allowed to get on with it, so under the guise of religious freedom they were permitted to land. Hodat started listening to them a great deal. I ought to say this was some cult to which Lydis herself adhered, by the way -- said it was from her home world of Brinze. "I guess it was the sacrifices which sparked the last resistance in Hodat. Bemused though he was by the witch, he yet had enough love for Asconel and its people to refuse that horrible last step." "Sacrifices?" Spartak heard his own voice utter the word an infinitely long way away. "Not -- human sacrifices?" "Human," Vix echoed, and the word seemed to curdle the air of the room. "And it was then, while Hodat yet refused, that Bucyon came from space with a fleet the equal of the one I used to fight with over by Batyra Dap -- ex-Imperial ships. "They took over. They killed Hodat. And Bucyon sits in the Warden's chair with Lydis at his side -- she having been the bait dangled ahead of Hodat to lead him to disaster. And Asconel is a ruin of all our father's hopes." "Is there no resistance to the usurper?" Spartak whispered. "Some, some. I hear that Tigrid Zen -- remember him? -- is either in exile or in hiding on one of the outer planets of the home system, trying to find an opening in the net Bucyon has cast around Asconel. But there's no spirit in the people." IF Spartak got blindly to his feet. He said, "I -- I must go and speak to Father Erton, and tell him I'm called away. And then I'll fetch my belongings and come with you." "Well!" Vix studied him. "That's more like the response I'd hoped for, late though it is. But I warn you, I can't tote all your beloved books and such around the galaxy! I've grown used to travelling light in these past ten years." "My books are in my head," Spartak said quietly, and went out. IV O ut in the corridor, Spartak paused as he snapped his fingers at a passing novice: Inform Father Erton I wish to see him, collect my belongings and pack them in my cases, have the kitchener prepare two travelpacks of food... Then Spartak headed straight toward the library. He entered the enormous hall with sufficient lack of the proper ceremony to draw a reproving glare from the Head Librarian, Brother Carl, in his high pulpit overlooking the entire array of more than five hundred low-walled cubicles. But he barely noticed that; he was concerned only to spot a vacant cubicle on the master plan-board and make his way to it as quickly as possible. There was a place unoccupied at Aisle II, Rank Five. He almost broke into a run as he approached it. Without bothering to close the door behind him he dropped into the single chair and punched a rapid succession of buttons on the panel which formed the only other feature of the tiny booth. One finger button, he hesitated; then he decided it was best to have a permanent record, and run the risk of the knowledgeable library computers swamping him with a flood of literature. He punched for a print-out instead of spoken or screened data. Then he took a deep breath. "Brinze," he said. "Planet, presumed habitable, location unknown." He waited in a mood of grim expectancy. It was all very well for Port Controller Grydnik, out on Asconel -- which was, after all, rather an isolated world -- to state that Brinze didn't exist because there was no Imperial record of it. But the records of Annanworld weren't so parochial. The library disgorged a small plain card, no larger than the palm of his hand, from the slot at the base of the panel. Dismayed, Spartak picked it up and read it. It ran: itable, location unknown. No data. Request verify basis for question." He tore the card across and threw it away. "Belizuek," he said. "Religious cult or feature of cult." The answering card was slightly larger, but not much. On it were the ject of veneration of religious cult introduced to former Imperial space four years ago. No data on origins. No data on ritual. Unconfirmed reports of human sacrifice posted as "Bucyon," Spartak said. "Personal name. Lydis, personal name." Deliberately he refrained from crossreferencing to Asconel. The fact that the library contained information even as meagre as what it had given him on this mysterious Belizuek cult had taken him aback; he had imagined that in his ten-year research for his projected history of his home planet he had exhausted every single reference in the entire store. "Present Warden of Asconel. LYconfirmed reports of usurpation by violence posted as -- " He didn't bother to see under what delicate category the memory of the library had entered those reports. He crumpled the card and tossed it aside in fury. "I'm an idiot," he growled. This material the library was supplying to him was nothing more than the siftings of the story Vix himself had just told in the refactory anteroom. Brother Ulwyn, in the gatehouse, must have informed the library as a matter of routine that a visitor from Asconel had arrived, and the library, finding it lacked recent news of that planet, had automatically eavesdropped on this much-travelled stranger. Techniques like these had been partially responsible for making Annanworld into the most notable of all the Empire's information centres. For some minutes after that, he just sat. He had hoped to present a whole stack of data about Brinze and Belizuek to Vix, as some sort of justification for having hidden away in this placid backwater. Vix's gibe was half-true, he had to admit. And it turned out there was nothing in the library but the same rumors, now rendered third-hand. The door of the cubicle was pushed aside, and a startled offworld student was there, carrying a recorder. "Oh! Excuse me, Brother, but this cubicle was shown vacant on -- " "That's all right," Spartak said, rising with limbs that seemed to have stiffened from the passage of a lifetime. "I forgot to shut the door. But I've done what I came to do, anyway." ( #X"ou'll forgive me," Father ErX ton said in his wheezy ancient voice. He was very old; rumor placed him at well past the century mark. "I should perhaps not say this. We are a center for study and distribution of information, and it's only a courtesy obligation that we place on those who make such extensive use of our facilities as you have done, to recompense us with some original work before leaving." But he loaded the words with a glare, and Spartak, who had always regarded the Master of his order with great respect, felt impelled to excuse himself against the implied charge. "I have no intention of departing permanently, Father," he said. "It is simply that this news -- " "Moreover," Father Erton continued, totally ignoring the interruption, "Brother Ulwyn gives us most unfavorable reports of this halfbrother of yours who comes to drag you away. Says he is violent in the extreme. Heavily armed." IF "But Asconel is one of the few -- " "You may have no intention of departing permanently," Father Erton proceeded, as though his ears and mouth were keeping different time-scales, the gap between them amounting to several seconds. "But someone else -- for example, the alleged usurper of Asconel -- may take no notice of what you plan. And your chance to return will be... Pffft!" "I'm sorry, my mind is made -- " "Most crucial of all is my final point. If you leave here and while absent infringe the vow you took to renounce all forms of violence, you cannot be re-admitted." Father Erton leaned back with an effort and stared at Spartak. "I am not by temperament a violent person," Spartak forced out, acutely conscious that Father Erton's refusal to listen to a word he had to say had made him long to employ a great deal of violence on his sparse gray pate. "My intention is merely to -- " "Your intention is to throw away ten years of valuable study on a heroic gesture. You may well not return alive, and even if you do you stand the same chance of turning back the calendar as I would have of combating a tidal wave. I understand your attachment to Asconel. Why, I myself, after seventy years, still occasionally find myself nostalgic for my own birth world! And that the appeal comes from your half-brother makes it even more understandable that you should be tempted. Nonetheless, I urge prudence, a night's sleep before your linal decision, and -- best ot all -- a reconsideration." Spartak got to his feet, a cold rag me," he said between his teeth. "You know what's going to happen here? One of these days someone who doesn't give a yard of a comet's tail for some hypothetical Second Galactic Empire is going to remember Annanworld, and he'll whistle up a few score jollyboys with armed starships and knock this pretty study down around your ears. Then he'll pick over the survivors and choose out the girls for raping and some of the novices for general drudgery, and loot the wreckage for enough to last him out a lifetime of luxury. And if this doesn't happen, it's going to be because a few places like Asconel and Loudor and Del cad ore held to the oldfashioned ways, stood up for justice and order and the rule of law and did their best to keep the pirates and the slavers and the privateers from off your neck!" Father Erton gazed up at him unblinkingly. He said, "It's takea you ten years, has it, to come around to this way of thinking?" "No. More like ten minutes!" "Then go," Father Erton sighed, "But remember! If you commit yourself to violence, save the expense of coming back!" V T hey went a considerable distance in silence, with no one else in sight except some children on a hilltop, playing some game with a long white stick. #J Spartak was engaged with his own bitter thoughts, and was anyway used to long hours of private study and contemplation. It was not until they were almost halfway to the village that he spoke. "How did you come here? By the regular space-lines?" "Blazes, no. In this corner of the galaxy, shipping schedules are down to monthly, sometimes bi-monthly frequencies. I should sit on my butt while they get around to organizing a crew and lifting their creaky old tubs? No, I have my own ship now." "Your own ship?" Spartak echoed in surprise. "You've done well. I've not heard of a privately owned starship before." "Don't picture any ship of the line," Vix grunted. "I have an Imperial scout, probably one of the original ships they tell me we found when we came out into space the very first time. I've never dared compute how old she must be." "Twenty thousand years," Spartak said positively. "Twenty -- ?" It was Vix's turn to be astonished. "Oh, never!" "If it's one of the original Imperial vessels, it must be. According to what events you take as marking the establishment and the collapse of the Empire, it lasted something between eight and a half and nine thousand years. By the time we came out to collect them, the various artifacts our predecessors left behind were already at least as old as tht whole lifespan of the Empire." "This is something I've never got straight in my mind," Vix said slowly. He seemed to be groping for some subject of conversation which would be sufficiently neutral to let him get to know this stranger-brother of his, who had adopted a way of life so alien to his temperament and yet now had to be his companion and confidant. "I guess you must have put in a deal of study on it -- hm?" "I did when I first came to Annanworld," Spartak agreed. "I had this over-ambitious idea that I was going to find out how the Empire originally arose. But the records simply don't exist. What little had been recorded was either destroyed or simply rotted away. We've never had the skills required to build something to last ten thousand years. Even an Empire!" "But -- well, at least you can tell me how it is we're still flying ships supposed to be as old as you just said?" "We've made some intelligent guesses. The best and most likely is that at some time in their own history the people who left the ships behind lost interest in physical activity, and built sufficient ships and some few other items to last out their -- well, maybe their lifespan. Or else they went to another galaxy because they'd studied this one from rim to rim and exhausted it and themselves. But they'd built well. It took us ten thousand years to use up what they left behind." "It's not used up yet, not by a long way," Vix countered. # #X#"es, but what time couldn't do I to those ships, we've done deliberately. It costs to buy a ship, TF but it doesn't cost anything to run one, for they're self-fuelling and almost indestructible. The Argian fleet numbered one hundred and one million vessels at the height of Imperial power, and there must have been almost one thousand times as many as that in service throughout the galaxy. Yet now -- as you just said -- there are so few ships you may wait a month for passage on what used to be a flourishing Imperial starlane." "We're building some ships of our own, though." "Where? Not in Imperial space, Vix. Out on the Rim, where the Imperial writ never ran. I sometimes think I'd like to go out there, to see what human endeavor can do by itself, without accidental help from a vanished race." "A long trip without much prospect of reward," Vix said. "Me, I'll stick around the hub. Numbers much to a man unless he's prepared to think of planets as grains of dust and human beings as less than bacteria. And no one raised on a world as sweet as Asconel could do that." Spartak shifted his heavy load to the opposite shoulder. He was a little relieved at what Vix had just said. In the years since they last met, this fiery older brother of his had clearly matured as Tiorin had done, and there was a good chance, he reasoned, of their becoming friends at last. "How did you come by your ship?" Spartak asked eventually, after casting around for some way of keeping the talk moving. "Took it as my pay after we put down the rebellion of the old Twenty-Seventh Fleet." Spartak swallowed dryness and was glad when the other left the subject where it lay. "That's not all I've picked up, by any means. Though most of what I've had I've spent as fast as I got it. Matter of fact, I guess there may be some problems if you've fallen into the ways of these sexless monks you've kept so much company with." "You have a girl with you?" Spartak suggested. "That's right." "A slave?" "I don't like the tone of your voice," Vix said sharply. "I don't pay her regular wages, if that's what you mean. But I keep her, feed her, clothe her -- and she does the chores for me that a woman usually does for a man. But there are other reasons why a girl keeps company with a man without being enslaved. Have you forgotten, cooped up in your hermitage here?" "Have you been together long?" Spartak inquired peaceably. He was tempted to correct Vix's mistaken idea of the life led by his order, but did not. "About five years altogether." Vix brightened a little; they were in full sight of the transport terminus in the village. "Ah! From here we can get to the spaceport in under the hour." inphere she is," he exclaimed, A throwing up a proud arm to point. "The smallest vessel in sight, but mine. Go over and stow your bags. I have to pay port dues and get clearance -- they still observe all sorts of old-fashioned rules and regulations here." "Ah -- this girl of yours," Spartak ventured. "What's her name, for when I meet her?" "Vineta. Don't worry. She knows it's you coming back with me, if anyone off this world does." Spartak shrugged and made off across the hard gray surface of the port. A great deal must have changed in the last few years, he reflected, for his brother to have secured a ship of his own. Governments of planets, great trading enterprises, and other corporate organizations had owned ships under the Empire; if these bodies were letting go of the items most indispensable to the continuance of galactic trade and communication, decay must have spread far and fast. Ther was one exception to the list of ship-owners he'd mentally made: pirates sometimes claimed to own their ships absolutely. But he preferred not to linger on that idea. He came close to the ship now. The access ladder was down; awkwardly he clambered to the top, his bags swinging. He rapped on the door of the lock, thinking: twenty thousand years ! It is incredible ! When no one opened to him, he tested the manual lock release. It opened the door for him. He frowned. It was unlike Vix to risk leaving the ship thus. But perhaps this girl of his felt safe on her own. He climbed inside and called aloud. "Ah -- Vineta? Are you there?" But there was no one in any of the accessible compartments of the vessel: control cabin, living quarters, sleeping quarters, sanitary facilities were all empty. He was standing, puzzled, in the control room when Vix came stamping aboard, and forestalled the redhead's questions with a curt sentence. "She wasn't here when I arrived." "What? Vineta! Vineta!" The harsh sound reverberated in the hollow hull. No answer came. Vix set to searching, as Spartak had just done, and came back moments later with his face a mask of fury. "Gone!" he roared. "After all I've done for her, to walk out like this -- take to her heels without even clearing out her gear! The little baggage! The little radiation-spawned sweetton gued -- " "Vix," Spartak said very softly, "are you altogether surprised?" "What do you mean by that?" the redhead blasted. "I remember from -- from back home. The way you used to treat your women sooner or later turned them against you. And the life you've been leading isn't the sort which would make you any more gentle." "So you think she just waited till my back was turned and ran for it?" "Not exactly. But Annanworld had quite a reputation. Isn't it possible that she decided she was tired of a roving life? She'll never have been to Asconel, probably never stopped on any single world with you for more than a short stay -- " "What are you talking like this for? You never even saw the girl!" Vix wiped away sweat that had started on his forehead. "Ach! Go IF stow your gear in the lower cabin. That was hers, and some of her things are still there. I'm going to ask the port authorities what became of her, and fetch her back by her hair if I have to." He gave his half-brother a final withering glare. "Well, move! Or would you rather I left her behind, because it might embarrass you to have my mistress here in such a confined space? Is that why you're trying to talk me into thinking it's my fault? If she was going to run off she could have done it on a dozen other worlds without waiting for this precious favorite of yours!" Spartak said nothing, but picked up his bags and made his way to the lower cabin as directed. VI A frown of self-directed anger pulling his brows into deep furrows over his nose, Spartak glanced around the lower cabin, barely taking in the pathetic few belongings which bore witness to the occupancy of it by the girl Vineta. He had not meant to spark an argument with Vix; it was simply that ten years on Annanworld had accustomed him to going straight' to the point in the interests of exposing the truth, and he had largely forgotten how to use tact. He had been shorn of most of his false conceptions of himself, and was glad to have lost them. But it made no odds that Vix had almost certainly treated his girl the same as he had always treated women -- even beating her occasionally. To have told him that she had probably grown tired of aim and run off was a stupid error. Sighing, he cleared away the miscellaneous junk disposed on the shelves and in the drawers. Without his at first realizing, they made a picture to him: a kind of implied portrait of their owner. This curiously shaped seashell, from some planet where the mollusca had a copper-based metabolism to judge by the bluish sheen of the lining; this necklet of rock crystal, pink and blue and yellow; this solido of two smiling elderly folk -- her parents, possibly? It wasn't until he came to tall closets in the far corner and found half a dozen costumes hanging there, together with a small stringed instrument which he did not recognize, that he checked and started to think seriously about the conclusions he ought to draw. Even then he went ahead with what he had originally intended -- changing clothes, putting aside the brown robe of his order in favor of garments not worn since his arrival on Annanworld, but still a fair fit to his body, whose leanness had remained constant since his late adolescence. There was a reminder in that stringed instrument of his own mother, who had been a wandering singer and teacher. It was the means of getting a living. Surely that, and the clothing, would not have been left behind, no matter how eager she was to escape Vix and lose herself on Annanworld? And it was still less likely that she should have abandoned small souvenir items, like the solido, which were no burden to carry and presumably held emotional significance for her. Maybe she went aground to buy something , he told himself at last, marvelling how sluggish his mind had been made by the annoyance his disagreement with Vix had caused. I must tell Vix not to do anything rash -- In that instant, when he stood with one leg in his old but serviceable breeches of Vellian silk, the ship's gravity went on, and within seconds he felt the surging of the drive. This was not the slickly smooth operation of a large liner, elaborately maintained for the passengers' comfort -- like the only other vessels in which he had ever flown space. It was the jarring violence of a scoutship stripped for action, without frills, and seemed to vibrate all the way into his belly, triggering a reflex nausea. He resisted it in near-panic, thinking what foul company Vix would be if he worked out for himself, many systems distant, what Spartak had just deduced from the clothing still in the cabin. He struggled out into the corridor, and ' as he turned from sliding shut the cabin door caught a glimpse of movement at the foot of the companionway leading up to the control room. It was too brief, and the drive-induced nausea was now too strong, for him to get a clear view of the person who had gone by, but the obvious deduction was that Vineta was aboard after all. He had no time to work out where she might have been hiding. He was completely unfamiliar with this design of ship, and if Vix hadn't found her she must have concealed herself very thoroughly. Or else Vix himself wasn't yet aware of all the nooks and crannies in his prized new possession... No, rational thought was beyond him at the moment. Wait till the drive settled down to free-space operation. That would be soon enough to solve the riddle. He was on the point of returning to his cabin when he heard the cry. "Spa-ar-tak!" And the drive went off. T he shock was like a dash of cold water, clearing the fog from his brain. With reflex speed he made for the companionway, scrambling up it with the agility of a Sirian ape. The shock was renewed as soon as he saw what was happening in the control room. It was no girl that he had glimpsed passing this way. It was a man, huge and bulky as a Thanis bull, his hair wild, his body cased in crude leather harness and his feet in steel-tipped boots, who now was wrestling chest-to-chest with the tough but far smaller Vix, overbearing the redhead in a crushing embrace. Vix tried to butt him on the nose, failed as the attacker jerked his head back, lost his balance to one of the steel-tipped boots as it cracked against his ankle, and went slamming down to the floor. He had had no time to draw his sidearms, obviously. Perhaps he'd mistaken the sound of the stranger's IF approach for Spartak's. But he'd done well in the first instance, for a short sword lay at the foot of the control board: his assailant's, logically, which he had somehow contrived to dash from his grip. Horrified, Spartak saw the two antagonists crash to their full length, saw the stranger break Vix's grasp on his right wrist and force his hand closer and closer to the redhead's throat. Wild pleading showed in the green eyes, but there was no breath available for him to call for aid again. To renounce his oath so soon? To pick up the sword from the floor and drive it into the stranger's back? It could be done, but -- And then he remembered, as clearly as if he were hearing it in present time, the voice of one of his earliest tutors on Annanworld. "Always bear in mind that the need for violence is an illusion. If it seems that violence is unavoidable, what this means is that you've left the problem too late before starting to tackle it." Spartak dodged the struggling men and made for the control board. As he scanned the totally unfamiliar switches, he heard a sobbing cry from Vix -- "Spartak, Spartak, he's going to strangle me!" Time seemed to plod by for him, while racing at top speed for his brother. But at last he thought he had it. He put one hand on the back of the pilot chair, and with the other slammed a switch over past its neutral points to the opposite extreme of its traverse. Instantly he went heels over head. But he was prepared for this; in effect, he fell to the ceiling like a gymnast turning a somersault, and landed on his feet with a jar that shook him clear to the hips. The universe rolled insanely around him. Through a swirling mist of giddiness he saw that what he had intended had indeed come about. Locked in their muscle-straining embrace, Vix and the unknown had crashed ten feet to the ceiling as the gravity reversed, and now Vix was on top -- and breaking free! For the force of the upside-down fall had completely stunned the stranger. Spartak reached out, clutching Vix by the loose baldric on which he normally slung his energy-gun, and reversed the gravity once more, restoring its normal direction. The attacker slammed to the floor again while he and Vix feH rather less awkwardly; this time, he moved the switch with careful slowness, not exceeding a quarter-gravity till he felt his soles touch the floor. And then he said, "Who is he?" "I -- I -- " Vix put his hands to his temples and pressed, breathing in enormous sobbing gasps. "What did you do?" "I put the gravity over to full negative." "But -- " Vix began to recover -- "but -- how? Do you know these ships, then?" "No, I've never seen one before. But it followed logically. There's always an automatic gravity compensator on a starship, for high-gee maneuvering in normal space. It seemed reasonable to expect a manual override on a vessel like this which might get damaged during combat." "You mean you just took a chance on it, while he was throttling the life out of me?" Vix exploded. C learly the redhead had suffered one of the worst frights of his life. Spartak hesitated. "Why didn't you just pick up his sword and run him through with it?" Vix blasted on. "Ah -- well, if I'd done that," Spartak countered in the calmest tone he could manage, "he wouldn't have been able to tell us who he is and why he set on you. As it is, here he's no more than stunned. And you're alive to ask him questions." "I guess so," Vix agreed sullenly, and gave the dazed attacker a prod in the ribs with his foot. "I look forward to beating some answers out of him, at that. Here, I'll put some lashings on him before he wakes up." He started to a corner chest in search of ropes. "I don't think you'll have to beat the information out," Spartak ventured. "I have some stuff with me which will probably make him talk a lot faster than that." "Such as what?" Vix found a length of braided leather and a short flexible chain, and started to bind the man's limbs. "I -- uh -- brought some medical things I thought might come in handy," Spartak said, swallowing hard. Ever since his childhood, fighting and violence had physically upset him, and the glee in Vix's IP voice as he proposed torturing the man to make him talk had picked up the backwash of the nausea from the drive and redoubled it. "I'll go fetch it right away!" But first, he told himself, he'd better take a dose of something to calm his own stomach. He was at the door of the lower cabin, fumbling to open the sliding panel, when he felt the knocking beneath his feet. Astonished, he stared down at the flooring of featureless metal plates. The knocking came again, more vigorously, and his eyes suddenly spotted a small cluster of new bright scratches at one end of the plate on which he stood. "By the moons of Argus!" he exploded, and dropped to his knees to lever up the plate and push it aside. In the compartment thus revealed lay the missing Vineta, a crude cloth gag in her mouth, her clothing torn and a huge bruise discoloring the soft olive skin of her right cheek. She was small and slender, but even so her assailant had had to cram her by main force into the tiny space under the floor. Frantically he lifted her out and set her on her feet; she stood for a second holding on to him, shaking out her space-black hair, then seemed to recover a little and let go of his arm. He made to remove the gag, but she shook her head and tore it out herself. "Are you Vix's brother?" she whispered. Her voice was hoarse. "Yes -- yes, I'm Spartak." "Is he -- ?" "He's all right. He's up in the control room tying up the man who attacked him -- and you too, presumably. How did it happen?" "He had a message sent from the port controller to say he was some sort of official." Vineta swallowed painfully. "And Vix had told me that on Annanworld they had lots of regulations left over from Imperial days, which we'd have to comply with or be delayed in leaving. So I let him come aboard." She passed a weary hand over her forehead and then touched the bruise on her cheek, wincing. "Thank you for letting me out," she whispered. "I was so afraid... And she turned to hurry in search of Vix. Spartak watched her go. The rips in her costume exposed much more of her tight, firm body than he cared to see, and a completely irrational envy overcame him against his will, at the thought of the endless succession of beautiful women Vix had enjoyed and abandoned. Contrary to the assumption Vix had made, his order on Annanworld didn't demand celibacy, and even Father Erton had kept up an association with a woman in the same specialization as himself which had endured for almost thirty years. But his own two or three attempts to form such a relationship had floundered on his shyness and his reluctance to detach himself from his studies. Now, without warning, he found he was wistful, as if he had left some very important part out of his life. T he last thing he expected to find when he returned to the control room clutching his large black medical case was a full-blown shouting match. But he heard it even before he came in. Vix was bellowing at the girl. "You realize he could have killed me? You just let him in. Opened the lock for him and let him in! You didn't keep a gun on him, or anything sensible like that -- oh, no, you wouldn't have thought of it!" "But you told me yourself we had to...!" The answer dissolved on a high note which foreshadowed tears. "What conceivable reason could the controller have to send someone aboard before I got back?" Vix thundered. "I ought to take the hide off you!" Spartak pushed the door aside, and Vineta ran into him blindly, making headlong for the privacy of the lower cabin. He caught her with his free hand, and spoke sharply to Vix. "You ought to be ashamed of yourself! Just because you've been scared white, that's no reason to take it out on her. She's had a worse shock than you have -- look at that bruise on her! And you know where I found her? Folded up like an embryo in a tiny hole under the floor of the lower corridor! Here," he added in a gentler tone to the girl, looking for a place to set down his medical case. "I'll put something on the bruise and give you a pill to calm your nerves." She accepted his ministrations dumbly, swallowed the pill as directed, and whispered, "Can I go now?" "Lie down for a while. You'll be all right." Spartak gave her a comforting pat on the shoulder and stood aside for her to leave... "I'm -- sorry," Vix said with an effort as the door slid to. "You're right. I oughtn't to talk to her that way." "It's better to think of points like that in advance and not afterwards," Spartak answered curtly, and crossed the floor to drop to his knees beside the bound man. "Hm! How long has he been awake?" "Awake?" Vix echoed in astonishment. "I thought he was still knocked out." "Hold it," Spartak rapped, forseeing that Vix's next impulse would be to kick the man into talking. "Let's see what I can do to loosen his tongue before you -- " He reached behind him for an injector and a small phial of grayish liquid. "What are you going to give him?" Vix demanded. "It's one of the old Imperial drugs. Not really meant as a truth drug, but supposed to bring forgotten experiences back to consciousness during psychotherapy." With deft fingers he loaded the injector. "Why did you think that of all drugs might come in handy?" Vix grunted. "Think I might be precessing my gyros, maybe?" "You do take everything personally, don't you?" Spartak sighed. "As IF a matter of fact, I thought it might help us to find out how this Belizuek cult gets the hold it's supposed to have over apparently rational people like Hodat. There," he added, shooting the dose into the bound man's wrist veins. "How long does it take to work?" "A few seconds. Open your eyes, you!" The bound man complied after an obvious struggle to go on feigning unconsciousness. "Who are you? Where are you from?" Spartak asked. "I'm -- " Another, equally unsuccessful struggle to still his tongue, and a yielding. "I'm Korisu, and I come from Asconel."  "From -- !" Vix toofea pace forward in amazed horror. "What was your missioMSand who ordered you to do it?" H is eyes fixed open and seeming glazed, the man whispered, "I was sent by Bucyon to track down Vix and kill him." "Why?" thundered Vix. "Because he'd heard that you planned to raise on army and depose him, and wipe out Belizuek on Asconel." "I'm Spartak, Vix's half-brother," Spartak said softly. "Does my name mean anything to you?" "Y-yes. After I'd found and killed Vix, since I was on Annanworld anyway, I was to locate you and eliminate you as well." "Has someone been sent after Tiorin?" Vix demanded. "I -- I don't know for sure. I think so. But nobody knew where he was when I left home. There was a rumor that he had gone towards the hub, to travel in what's left of the Empire. Someone mentioned Delcadore." "Then that's where we'll go!" Vix declared, and strode towards the control board. "Just a moment," Spartak said. "There are some other things I want to set straight. You,. Korisu. Are you a follower of Belizuek?" "Of course I am. Everyone on Asconel is nowadays." Vix uttered a filthy string of oaths. "What is Belizuek?" "He is all-seeing and all-powerful. He reads the inmost thoughts of men and no one can stand against him. He's a superior being. Men ought to recognize that and serve him." "Is he a telepathic mutation from human stock?" "I've never seen him. But the priests say he's different. Superior. Deserving of our worship." Spartak wiped sweat from his face. "I'm told he demands human sacrifices. Is that true?" "No, of course not!" Shocked, the bound man tried to sit up, and failed. "The priests say it's blasphemy to call it sacrifice. It's a freewill offering! It's an honor to serve Belizuek in that way just as in any other." Spartak's jaw set in a grim line. If in such a short time Bucyon and his consort Lydis had managed to persuade the citizens of Asconel that this transcendent rubbish was the revealed and mystic truth, their misson wasn't going to be confined to so simple a task as deposing the usurper and restoring the rightful Warden. "Where does Belizuek come from?" "The priests say he's existed since the beginning of the galaxy." "Then where is Brinze?" "That's where Shry and Bucyon and Lydis and some of the others come from. But I don't know where it lies." "Delcadore," Vix muttered to himself, over at the control board. "I'd not meant to go so close to the hub. There are still idiots around there with dreams of Imperial glory, and it's risky. But if that's where Tiorin is said to be..." He glanced over his shoulder. "I have a course set up now. Anything more you want from him?" "Not right now." Spartak straightened. "What shall we do with him?" "Put him where he put Vineta. Why not?" "No, that's too small -- literally and absolutely. In a closet we can lock, that would do." "There's an empty one next to the head," Vix grunted. "I'll help you lug him down there." S till weary from the mental strain as well as from the physical effort of hauling the reluctant Korisu to his prison, Spartak stole into the lower cabin. Vineta had stretched out on the left bunk, and was sleeping with deep and regular breathing. Near her pillow she had ranged the little objects to which she plainly attached a great deal of value: the shell, the solido, the cheap jewelry. Spartak put his medical case away and crept out again. "You again, Spartak?" Vix called as he re-entered the control cabin. "Say -- iih -- I ought to thank you. I guess I was too shaken up to remember. It was very smart, the way you stopped the fight. And it was just as weM we tackled him your way and not mine. Apart from anything else, I imagine you're now convinced that I wasn't spinning you a wild fantasy about what's happened on Asconel!" Spartak shook his head distractedly. "It's incredible," he muttered. "The speed and completeness of the process, to have produced a fanatic like Korisu in so short a time. It almost persuades me that you were right about an element of witchcraft." Vix hesitated. Then he put out his hand. "Brother, I was in two minds whether to go to Annanworld and seek you out. I wondered if I might not burden myself. But ten years is a slice out of any man's life, and love for a world like Asconel is enough of a bond to bring men together." Spartak put his hand into th other's grasp. But the full measure of Korisu's fanaticism did not emerge until much later -- until the time when they went to feed him in his cramped prison and found that he had contrived to strangle himself, against all probability, with the braided leather Vix had used to bind bis arms... IF T he shadow of that incredible death still lay over them when they gathered in the control room to watch the planet Delcadore grow beyond the main ports. To break the intolerable silence between them, Vineta -- recovered almost completely from her treatment at the hands of Korisu -- spoke up. "What sort of a world is this one, now?" Vix, occupied with the controls, tossed an answering grunt over his shoulder. "Ask Spartak. He has the head full of knowledge. I've not followed the progress of events down here towards the hub. Still too rigid and organized for my taste, to be candid!" The girl glanced at Spartak rather shyly. They had hardly yet got to know one another during this brief trip, and she had spent most of her time out of the way of both brothers, although Spartak had seen enough to convince him that Vix still at heart regarded women as expendable. Currently, he just did not have the time to get himself another if he lost Vineta, and was doing his clumsy best to keep on her right side. "Well," Spartak commenced, "this was formerly one of the main garrison systems for the Imperial fleet. When the Empire began to lose its outer reaches this was one of the -- the foci, so to speak, on which retrenchments were made. I think it's now effectively a frontier system. The Empire hasn't vanished, of course, but only shrunk to a fraction of its former size." "That's what's worrying me," Vix interjected. "I've tangled with "certain boneheaded parties who seem to imagine the Empire still flourishes. For my part, I think it's now a farce, and will only prove a handicap to some new and more stable foundation." Spartak nodded in surprised agreement. At that moment a light sprang up on the communicator panel, and Vix reached over to activate the circuit. A voice boomed out with a ring of crude authority. "Identify yourself and your ship!" "See what I mean?" Vix muttered wryly, and added more loudly, for the benefit of the distant challenger, "Vix of Asconel piloting my own vessel, on private business and landing on Delcadore." "Asconel, hm?" Thg voice was as clear as if it came from the next room, even when at lower volume it continued, "Where in all of space is that?" Other voices, much fainter but quite distinct, chimed in. "Asconel -- isn't that where...? Well, it's off towards the Rim anyway, so I guess it'll do... Anything to shift this problem off my back... Yes, we'll settle for this one -- we don't want to wait till the galaxy freezes just to find a ship bound for the Big Dark or somewhere really distant..." Vix and Spartak exchanged appalled glances, and the first voice roared out again. "Vix of Asconel, you're under Imperial requisition. Do you hear and understand? Your ship is under Imperial requisition. Do not attempt to evade this order, or it will be the worse for you?" "What does this all mean?" Vineta whispered. "Right now, that's what it means!" Vix replied in white-lipped fury, and gestured towards the viewport which moments ago had held only Delcadore, its larger moon and the stars, beyond. Now, like a monstrous fish swimming leisurely to intercept smaller prey, there loomed the gigantic shape of an Imperial ship of the line, the ancient Argian symbols blazoned at prow and stern, for all the galaxy as though. Argus could still issue pared to back this false contention with the all-too-real support of firepower equal to the output of a minor sun. F ighting and running were out of the question. When the order was given to take a landing on Delcadore under the escort of the Imperial battleship, Vix -- punctual ing his pilot work with oaths that seemed to grow fouler by the secf ond -- furiously complied, while I Spartak tried to console him with l the suggestion that at least so far they weren't being told to do any(r thing but what they had intended all w along.  Meanwhile, Vineta stood close vj against him, her large dark eyes fixed as though hypnotized on the A. hull of the escorting ship, her whole body trembling with the unexpressed  terror she felt at the nameless threat IF the "Imperial requisition" implied. Spartak's heart lifted, though only briefly, when he saw what forces the Empire could still command. There might be a thousand vessels, he guessed, docked here at what huge illuminated signs still declared to be the Headquarters Port of the Third Imperial Fleet. Then he took a second look at those monstrous hulls, ranged like a forest of branchless metal trees across the concrete plain, and realized he had failed to make an obvious deduction. The Empire, by all accounts, was struggling against decay and rebellion all through the galaxy. Why then were so many ships out of the sky at one place and one time? And he began to spot the clues which accounted for their presence: gashed hulls from distant battles, plating removed by the hundreds of square feet to expose the vital equipment within which was being cannibalized to maintain those ships still capable of flight. Maybe somewhere out near the rim there was a world where ships stood like this in vast numbers, but not antiques used to the limit by reckless commanders -- new ships, human-made, ready to bring inwards to the hub those who for ten millennia had been harried away from the Argian domains and had bided their time on the threshold of intergalactic emptiness, waiting for the inevitable collapse. If there were such a world, he thought, it would be worth hunting for. The shadow of an idea crossed his mind, and was dispelled immediately by the arrival alongside their own vessel of officials from the port controller's staff. Vix vented his anger on them in a single blast of abuse and complaint. They ignored him as they might have ignored a breath of wind. Spartak, urging Vix aside, attempted to tackle them .on a more rational basis, inquiring the authority for "Imperial requisition" and contesting the legality of giving orders to non-imperial citizens. The officials sighed and produced guns. It seemed that this had become the standard substitute for argument on Delcadore. All three of them were taken -- for Vineta refused to stay alone aboard the ship after her experience on Annanworld -- to wait in a large, light anteroom outside the office of the port controller. There was no one else there apart from a man of early middle age, who to their horror lacked both a leg and  an arm. They could not refrain from staring at him; on a world returning to barbarism after the withdrawal of Imperial support, such a sight might have been expected, but Delcadore was supposed to be an outpost of the still viable Argian civilization. T he man cracked a bitter smile as he saw their eyes covertly turning on his injuries. "I'm not pretty any longer, am I?" he rasped. "Well, not to wonder at that! If you'd been picked out of an airless wreck the way I was, you'd have..." A fit of coughing interrupted his angry words, and racked his body for a good minute before he could answer Spartak's tense questions. "Oh, sure they'll fix me up sooner or later. But that can wait, they tell me. I'm the only survivor from my whole team, and all they want to know is where they went wrong. I'm going to tell 'em, too! Without mincing my words!" "What happened?" Vix snapped. "Fools -- gas-brained fools! I could have told them..." The man's eyes unfocused, staring through the wall at a faraway disaster. "Hiring pirates, that's what they've hit on as their latest brainwave! A whole Imperial fleet revolts under a commander who thinks he can do better than the mudheads we have in charge at the moment. And who's to say he couldn't? Sometimes I think  could! And what do they do to combat this? They hire a ramshackle bunch of pirate ships, thinking to keep them from pillaging some Imperial planet this way, send out a command echelon to give the orders -- that's where I got involved -- and sit back and pour some more ancinard. And what happens? Exactly what any schoolchild would have said! You can't give pirates orders, so they break and run. And the Imperialtrained rebels pick them off like scooting watersliders, and then the Imperials-that-were loot the very planet the pirates were aiming for, to make up for the inconvenience and minor losses they suffered!" "Which fleet?" Vix demanded. "The Eighteenth." The injured man stared at him. "What other did you think it was?" "What do you mean, 'what other'?" Vix countered. "The TwentySeventh is wiped out, as I well know. But it could have been the Tenth, or the Fortieth, or the Forty-Second, or -- " He broke off, the other man's eyes burning at him. "Are you sure?" the cripple whispered, after glancing around to make sure there was no one else in earshot. "Of course. I've just come from Annanworld, before that I was at Batyra Dap, and before that Poowadya, and before that -- " "All these fleets are still operating? In revolt, but still operating?" "At the last hearing, yes. Bar the Twenty-Seventh, as I mentioned." "The liars," the cripple whispered. "The dirty, double-tongued, deceiving, damnable -- " "Vix of Asconel!" a speaker cried from the wall. "Go to the door which will open on your right. Bring your companions with you." Puzzled at the cripple's reaction, Spartak lingered to put a final question to him, and got the answer he had half expected but was barely able to credit. If a high-ranking officer of the cracked Third Imperial Fleet had been lied to about the fate of so many other fleets, lying must have become the general policy of the rump Empire. How long could it stand on falsehood? He had envisaged another century or so before its prestige diminished to the point at which IF rebels and outlaws were tempted clear down to the hub -- ultimately perhaps to Argus itself. But if they were already so desperate at the reduction of their loyalist forces that they were hiring pirates as mercenaries, the word would travel fast. And the next time the Empire would find pirates and rebels combined against it. There would be an end to futile shifts like trying to make the two enemies destroy each other. G loomy beyond description, he found he had followed Vix and Vineta into the adjacent office, and there confronted a podgy, gray-haired woman in a uniform encrusted with meaningless decorations and ostentatious badges of rank. "Sit down," she said tonelessly. "Which of you is Vix, the alleged owner of the ship we've requisitioned?" "Alleged!" Vix purpled again. "I have clear title -- " "I'm not arguing," the woman sighed. "If you want to go into legalisms, starships are by definition Imperial property and only leased to corporations, trading companies or -- save the mark -- individuals." Her mouth twisted as though in disgust. "But where would it get me to rely on a thin argument like that? I imagine you're competent to handle the ship, and if I wanted to commandeer it I'd have to pick someone equally skillful. And that's not easy because next thing you know he'd be headed for the great black yonder... Spartak found himself suddenly pitying the woman, for she had defined herself instantly by what she had said: a weary official trying to keep things going while chaos battered at the structure of law, order and principle by which she had to be guided. He signalled Vix to be quiet, and leaned forward. "May we know your authority?" The woman blinked heavy lids a t him. "Frankly, I'm not sure which capacity I'm acting in right now. I have so many jobs I sometimes lose track. I sit in this room as assistant immigration supervisor Delcadore WestNorth Sector. I have the requisition on your ship as Acting Transport Director, Imperial space, Delcadore volume. And I'm under orders from the planetary government, department of public order." "We have business here," Spartak said. "If we could know what you want our ship for, we could perhaps -- " "To the Big Dark with your business," the woman said. "I have a solution to one fiddling little problem out of about ten thousand waiting for me to deal with, and I'm not disposed to compromise." "Now you listen to me!" Vix burst out. "First off, my ship is mine and I'm not handing it over to anyone who still has delusion of glory about the Empire! Second, my business here is important not only to me but to my home planet, and I'm not going to be cheated out of it. And thirdly -- " "Oh, shut up," the woman said. "Third is probably going to be something about not being an Imperial citizen. You're an Imperial citizen if you were born on any planet which was ever part of the Empire, and Asconel was. Your Warden still holds his fief from Argus, and his spacefleet too." "The blazes he does! The present Warden's a usurper, and he brought his fleet with him from some world called Brinze which the Imperial records don't show!" "I wouldn't know," the woman shrugged. "Don't think I have time to keep up with what's happening on backwater planets like that, do you? What's left of the Empire generates enough problems to keep my attention fully occupied. So swallow this, and digest it at leisure.   apparently read minds -- a mutant, obviously. We could have let her be stoned to death, I guess. Things are nearly that bad already, even on Delcadore. But when we can, we cling to the Imperial rules, because they're better than anything else we have. And the Imperial rules say we keep the status quo by putting her out of the way on some habitable planet off towards the rim. "In the old days we could have assigned her passage on regular linerroutes, under Imperial guard and protection to make sure some superstitious knot-head didn't assassinate her before she reached where she was sent. According to my best information -- which I'll share with you since you're from way out anyway -- there isn't a single commercial routing left which would get her to a rim system in less than a year. Coordination has gone to hell, schedules aren't reliable, and pirates are picking off so much traffic the lines are closing down or flying only in armed convoy. "So you'll have to do. I'm having this girl brought here from wherever the blazes she's been kept, and the moment she arrives you're going to take off and head for -- what's the name of that place?" She pushed a stud on the arm of her chair and consulted a small screen set at an angle beside her. "Ah, yes -- Nylock. I picked it because it's comparatively close: a straight-line route from here to the rim." Vix was half out of his chair with rage. "You can't do this!" he thundered. "Be grateful," the woman said stonily. "I could have sent you anywhere -- out the far side of the Big Dark, come to that! Now do you fancy your chances with the pirates in that volume, hey? Used to take three Imperial battleships to get across there safely!" Spartak, controlling himself better than Vix but nonetheless whitehot inside, forced out, "What right have you to make the requisition anyway?" "Argian decree," the woman said. "If you want the number and text I'll get it for you, but it runs to seventy figures and two full recording crystals, and seeing it won't make a grain of difference. I don't care for your business on Delcadore, I don't care for your complaints and objections -- all I care about is getting shut of one irritating problem." IF She stabbed another stud on her ohair-arm, and the doors of the room slid back. "And don't think, either, that there's an easy way to avoid doing as you're told. Dumping the girl in space when you get out of our jurisdiction, for instance, and trying to sneak back here. You'll be welcome to conduct your business when you've finished ours. And to make sure you do -- " Soft footfalls sounded behind Spartak's chair, and he half-turned to see menacing uniformed figures there. "We condition you," the woman said. "You won't be able to be comfortable or happy or sexually potent or even sleep properly from now on unless you're directing all your efforts to the completion of the mission on which you're sent." IX T he efficiency of the conditioning process was flawless: impersonal as a mechanical repair, thorough as the work of a first-rate surgeon. Spartak, who knew something of this and related psychological techniques from his wide researches on Annanworld, 'had hoped to offer at least token resistance to the drugs and hypnotic instructions employed on him. But it was useless. As though a shutter had snapped down over his brain, he blanked out, and on re-awakening he found he could recall nothing of what had happened except at the two extreme levels of his awareness. Consciously he knew he had been conditioned. Subconsciously he was disturbed, as it were by an itch, that was already intense and would grow to be unbearable if he did not at once comply with the Imperial order. He was appalled beyond measure. If this experience was anything to go by, it appeared that the chief tools of the Imperial power had been reduced to lies, propaganda and the threat of obliteration. Small comfort, in view of that, to know that the galaxy now held forces too strong to be impressed by the last of those three instruments! And perhaps worst of all was the fact that they were so confident of the reliability of the conditioning, they permitted him, Vix and Vineta to return to the ship without escort. knowing that until the telepathic girl was delivered to them they would sit and wait, and once she arrived they would helplessly depart for Nylock, the only place in the galaxy where they could be sure of release from the imprinted command. "Is there nothing we can do?" Vix pleaded for the tenth time. His courage in regular combat, his habitual assertive self-confidence, availed him not at all when faced by a weapon as subtle as this conditioning. It had perhaps been an inspiration on the part of the grayhaired woman to cite sexual impotence as one of the consequences of failing to comply with her decree; in any case, Spartak was reminded of a theory he had once formed about this redhaired half-brother of his. His insatiable demand for women, the theory proposed, was a way of compensating for the fact that he was youngest of three brothers, much alike. He needed women's attention to reassure him about his own individuality. For a long moment Spartak didn't reply. All he would have said would have amounted to the same as he had already repeated over and over. He knew of nothing that could be done without psychological assistance as skilled as what the Empire could draw on, and it couldn't be obtained without putting the ship into space for some other friendlier world. And once in space, the compulsion would be far too strong to withstand. The pause gave Vix a chance to think of something else: Vineta was weeping silently in the corner of the control room, her face pale and drained of hope. Vix rounded on her. "Stop that snivelling, woman!" he blazed. "I can't do anything about what's happened, can I? Control yourself and stop crying as if I'd been beating you!" "Vix!" Spartak snapped. "You ought to stop taking your frustration out on the poor girl! It can't make much difference to her where you drag her away to. Nylock and Asconel are both meaningless noises to her. If she's in tears it's for your sake, not her own." The cloud of gloom lifted momentarily from Vineta's perfectly shaped features, and she found the energy for a sad smile of gratitude at the intervention. Beside himself, Vix retorted, "I suppose you're glad of this, are you? Glad we're being sent to some back-of-beyond planet instead of to Asconel where we belong! There's fighting there -- or will be -- and you have no stomach for it!" S partak clung grimly to the shreds of his own temper. The abstract principles inculcated in him on Annan world, though, were very hard to apply under present circumstances. "How long did yoij spend burrowing in your piles of stale knowledge?" Vix sneered. "Ten years, isn't it? And does nothing you learned in all that time tell you how -- " He was interrupted by a bang on the outer door of the lock. Hardly stopping to draw breath, he charged away on a new line of complaint: "Now our time's up! They've brought this telepathic mutant along and the moment she's aboard we've lost our last chance to figure out a way of staying on Delcadore and tracking down Tiorin!" The idea struck Spartak that having a mind-reader close to him frightened Vix as much as being sent far away from Asconel. Superstition, merely? Or the fear of having some secret misdeed revealed? For himself, he knew he would welcome thin consolation in this opportunity to find out the truth behind all the rumors which he had heard; the policy of deportation which the Empire had instituted to insure itself against wild factors in the peoples it ruled by imposing statistical averages on them had worked well, but it had also fed the imaginations of the ignorant. IF Still, right now the matter of the talents of the sports the human race had thrown up was irrelevant. He got to his feet. Somehow he wasn't so sure as Vix that the mutant girl was waiting at the entrance. He would have expected a call from the port controller and perhaps some triggering command to reinforce the conditioning on their minds, not a simple knock without advance warning. He unlocked the panel and slid it aside. The person who met his gaze was a little man, apparently very nervous, with protruding teeth and wide startled eyes. He held tight to the guardrail around the narrow platform to which the ladder below him gave access, as though he was afraid of losing his balance and cashing to the ground. He said in a squeaky, eager voice, "Is this the ship from Asconel?" Spartak nodded, and the nervous man was infinitely relieved, even going so far as to take one hand from the rail he clutched. "Please! May I come inside and discuss a proposition with you?" Spartak hesitated, then stepped back and gestured that the other should pass, him. Vix, from within the control room, called out fiercely to know what was going on. But the nervous man would not say anything further until he was safely in the control room himself. Then he drew himself up importantiy"My name is not of any consequence," he commenced. "It is in fact Rochard, but I am representing a -- uh -- a third party who is very desirous of securing passage to your planet. For some time he has had his agents making inquiries at all the spaceports on Delcadore, asking about ships from Asconel and nearby systems, offering a generous fee for a flight thither. Yours is the first such ship to come to my notice since I was requested to assist him." Vix and Spartak exchanged astonished glances. Then the redhead pursed his lips as if to spit. "Can't help him," he snarled. Rochard put his hand suggestively into his belt-pouch, and there was the mellow jingling noise of solid Imperial coin. He said, "I'm instructed to make a very liberal payment in advance, and then my -- uh -- principal will guarantee double the old commercial rate for the distance. You'd be well advised to j "It's nothing to do with money," Vix broke in. His shoulders bowed, and he turned half away from Rochard. "Go look for some other vessel. If I could, I'd cheerfully take him to Asconel and not ask one circle for the flight -- that miserable world needs outsiders to visit it and view its present plight! But it's out of the question." B ewildered, Rochard renewed his original offer, his wide alarmed eyes seeking a clue to the refusal. Abruptly Vix whirled and clamped a hand on his wrist. "Out! Or I'll throw you out. You can't take no for an answer, can you? I guess you're losing a fat bonus for finding us, hey? Well, have your argument with the woman who sits in the port control building yonder!" He added a vivid and obscene description of her. "Just a second," Spartak whispered. His mind had been buzzing ever since Rochard's entrance with a wild -- fantastic -- notion. Even now he was reluctant to utter it, but he felt he must. "This 'principal' of yours -- he isn't by some miracle a man called Tiorin of Asconel?" Rochard started. "Why, you know him!" he blurted. "How do you know him? I was forbidden to name him to anyone." "Don't you see a resemblance between him and this man who holds your arm?" Spartak rapped. The had shaken him, physically, so that he was now trembling with excitement. As for Vix, he was so startled he had completely forgotten to release his hold on Rochard. "Why -- I guess so. But there are many worlds where one genetic strain has dominated others and produced a general likeness between many people." "This is no accidental resemblance. You're looking at his full brother Vix. And I'm Spartak, his half-brother." "Amazing!" Rochard breathed. "Why, for this he'll pay me double -- treble -- ten times what he promised! Please let me go," he added cringingly to Vix. "I must carry the news to him at once." "It still won't help much," Spartak grunted, silencing a threatened interruption from Vix with a IF lift of his eyebrows. "We've been put under Imperial requisition, and conditioned to take a mutant girl to some place called Nylock. You must be well in touch with what goes on around here. What can we do to get out from under this?" Rochard's face fell. He said, "Oh, no... The two words were like the sighing of wind through bushes in a cemetery. "Is there someone we can bribe to have' the conditioning reversed?" Spartak urged. "Is there anyone we could go to for counter-conditioning?" "How about Tiorin himself?" Vix snapped. "What's his situation here? How's he fixed for contacts, government influence, things like that?" Rochard spoke so rapidly he was almost babbling, his gaze apparently riveted on the imaginary spectacle of a fat reward disappearing into space. "Your brother is in no position to help you either! He's not meant to be on Delcadore at all. You see, some short time ago there came a man from -- I think -- his own world, yours too of course, an assassin, from whom he barely escaped. Since then he's been in hiding, and only some few trusted agents have been told he's still here. For the sake of any more would-be killers, the news was passed that he had left for Argus to raise aid against the new rulers of Asconel." "Do you know where he is? Can you contact him quickly?" Spartak demanded. "Why, within minutes if he's at the usual place. But it may take a while to bring him to you. If you're X ujnder Imperial requisition you can't leave the ship, and any attempt you make to communicate with people on the planet will be automatically jammed." "Get hold of him at once anyway," Spartak ordered. "It's our only chance." Frantically Rochard dashed for the door. Spartak turned to Vix, wiping sweat from his face. He said, "It might have taken weeks to track him down here. He might have fooled us, along with Bucyon's assassins, and we'd have gone on a ridiculous chase to Argus looking for him. Even if we have to go home via Nylock, we may prove to have wasted amazingly little time." "If we get back from Nylock," Vix said. "If we get him aboard in time to make the trip with us, and the girl isn't brought here before he arrives. If. If. ##" "I should have given Rochard a message to cover that risk," Spartak whispered. "Told Tiorin to wait for us, and we'd be back to locate him right here." "You were not expecting to find your brother on this world at all," Vineta suggested unexpectedly. "You were prepared to find he had left for somewhere else." Spartak nodded absently. "Then you are in luck," she said with a shrug. "Try to look on that side of it. I wiM go fix refreshments against your brother's arrival." She slipped silently from the cabin, and the two men settled down to try and abide by her extremely sensible advice. I t seemed that a slow eternity passed before they again heard a bang on the outer door. Vix leapt to his feet. "That must be the girl being brought!" he declared. "And we still haven't heard from Tiorin!" he added nervously. "I don't think so," Spartak countered, and now voiced the thought which had occurred to him earlier: that the port authorities would certainly advise them of the girl's arrival by communicator. He went to open the lock, and found Rochard had returned. "I wouldn't have been so long," the nervous man exclaimed, "but I thought it safer to try and reach you by communicator rather than come back. Only once you're under Imperial requisition even the palms I can normally grease seem to be put back in their pockets. To the point, since I did have to come here again: your brother is on his way, and if you can delay your departure one more hour he'll join you. Uh -- I can't help wondering," he finished in a fawning tone, "whether I may not have done you too some small service...?" Spartak had been Isolated in the environment of his order on Annanworld for so long that at first he did not get the point of this delicate probe for a gratuity. When he did, he found he was ignorant of the current purchasing power of Imperial money. He fumbled a twenty-circle piece from his pouch, and that seemed to satisfy Rochard; II at any rate, he gave a mechanical smile and scampered down the ladder again. "I wonder who he is," Spartak murmured to Vix when he had relayed Rochard's news. "Him?" Vix shrugged. "He's of a type which I've seen spring up on a dozen worlds. Carrion worms infesting the gangrened body of the old Empire. Probably he's regretting this instant that we're not doing anything which would entitle him to a reward if he informed on us to the port authorities. That's how people like him make a living: buying and selling information for use in blackmail, law evasion and petty crime in general." "I thought he was a frightened fool when I first saw him," Spartak admitted. "But he must be pretty astute." "Astute? Him? He didn't even try to find out if we were from Bucyon, like the assassin he told us about who came after Tiorin. He might have sold out his best employer and seen his throat out without reward to himself." Spartak was briefly silent. Then he mentioned his unfamiliarity with the purchasing power of money nowadays, and added ruefully, "I think I've been too long away from real life, Vix!" "I could have been put away from it permanently, but for quick thinking on your part," Vix retorted in a gruff tone. "At least we know we need only delay another hour, now. I hope they're having trouble locating this mutant girl and bringing her to us." B ut barely half the hoped-for period had gone by when the communicator barked at them. "Vix of Asconel, come to the port control building. Your passenger under requisition is here." Vix and Spartak exchanged glances that promised determination to resist, and sat tight, their mouths clamped shut on the temptation to answer and comply. After a second peremptory order, however, there was a noise from below, and Vix jumped up. "Vineta!" he exclaimed. "The conditioning is on her too, isn't it?" Spartak nodded. "Is she trying to get out of the lock?" "No, it doesn't sound like it." Vix went to the door to peer out "No, she's coming here!" The girl's face was pearled with sweat, and her teeth were chattering. "Vix, you must shut me in the cabin!" she forced out. "Or else I cannot stay against the orders I can hear!" "Hear?" Vix rapped. She nodded. "Like a little voice in my own head, whispering all the time." "It's a good idea to lock her in," Spartak confirmed. "I wish there was some way we could lock all of us in. Is there?" "Not that I know of," Vix grunted. "Sooner or later, even if we closed everything fast, we'd be driven to operating the emergency escape hatches, which can't be locked." He did as Vineta had asked, and on his return put a question to Spartak. "Little voices inside the head -- is that how it feels to you?" Spartak shook his head. He answered loudly as another, now puzzled, command came over the communicator, trying to drown out the words with his own. "It affects different people dfferent ways, I'm told. It gives me a helpless tightness in the guts, makes my mouth dry and I think eventually it will blur my vision." "How long before it gets unbearable?" "I don't know. How strong are we?" B ut the authorities patience was shorter than their endurance. With ten minutes still to go before the promised time of Tiorin's arrival, there came a thunderous banging on the lock door, entirely different from Rochard's timid knock. "Tiorin?" whispered Vix, whose neck was now corded with tension as he struggled against the invisible compulsion to leave the ship and fetch their unwanted passenger. "I guess it could be," Spartak replied with difficulty. "I'd better go see. I think I know more about what's been done to us than you do. I stand a marginally better cha'nce of arguing for a while longer if it's not Tiorin down there." "Go ahead," Vix consented, and his face twisted with self-contempt at his own frailty. It was not Tiorin. It was the pudgy woman with gray hair, accompanied by a squad of uniformed guards and the mutant girl -- presumably -- laid out on a stretcher on the back of the groundcar in which they had all ridden over to the ship. "You there!" she roared at Spartak's appearance. "If you fight our conditioning much longer, you won't be in a state to fly space! If that's how you think you're going to evade my orders, I tell you straight you won't get away with it! I'll condition one of my own pilots and drag you out to jail, and Delcadore will be the only planet you see for the rest of your lives!" A cloud of formless terror due to the conditioning enveloped Spartak's brain. He was unable to speak. Ignoring him, the woman turned to the guards with her. "Get that girl off the car and put her aboard!" Slowly, the terror retreated as Spartak called on every trick of selfdiscipline taught him on Annanworld. He found his voice again, could see clearly as the guards awkwardly sought to get the girl-laden stretcher up the ladder to the lock at which he stood. A shocking possibility crossed his mind, and everything else, conditioning included, fled from his awareness. He leaned forward on the rail, peering down at the girl. From her face, and the slightness of the body under the blanket in which she was wrapped, he deduced that she was scarcely more than a child -- fifteen or sixteen, perhaps. But that wasn't what transfixed him. He had assumed her to be unconscious, perhaps injured by the peasants or whoever had tried to stone her to death. The gray-haired woman had mentioned something about that. However, he had seen IF without a shadow of doubt that her eyes were open. "What's wrong with that girl?" The guards, busy trying to get her up the ladder, didn't answer. The woman on the car merely scowled. Behind him in the lock, Vix appeared, clutching his gun but somehow unable to find the trigger, so that his hands wandered absurdly over the stock and barrel, like jointed insects with minds of their own. "Is she sick, or hurt?" he inquired feverishly. "I don't think so," Spartak rapped. "Get back!" -- from one of the guards manhandling the stretcher up to them. Despite himself, Vix obeyed instantly. Spartak heard him cursing under his breath. The stretcher grated over the edge of the platform and was slammed flat. Blue eyes in a face which would normally have been ruddy and healthy, but had turned sallow, stared at the sky, not even turning to see into whose care she had been committed. "Catatone!" Spartak thundered, and rage so great it overcame the force of the conditioning stormed into his limbs. "What did you say?" Vix cried. "She's under catatone! It's a paralyzant -- they first got it from the poison of the Louder ichneumon." He stamped to the guardrail and stared down at the gray-haired woman. "Correct!" she applauded mockingly. Vix plucked at his arm. "Isn't it as well?" he whispered. "After all, to have her -- " Spartak brushed aside the other's hand. "It's the cruellest thing in the galaxy!" he blazed. "Because k only paralyses! It doesn't dull painl How'd you like to be unable even to moisten your eyes by blinking --  or move to relieve a cramped leg -- or control your bowels?" He heard Vix draw his breath in sharply, and from the corner of his eye saw that the  redhead was staring with dismay at the girl's taut body. "And don't you know why they did it?" Spartak raged on. "Because there's so much lying and deceit going on in this once-proud Empire they're afraid a mind-reader could tell a few unpleasant truths to the people they're duping -- like the man we met earlier, shy of his arm and his leg!" He saw, as clearly as through a telescope, that his taunt had made the gray-haired woman wince. Without conscious intent, he shot out his arm and seized the energy gun from Vix's fumbling grasp. Trying desperately to stretch this moment of not-thinking to its utmost, he levelled the weapon and found the trigger. "Where's the antidote?" he shouted. "Get me the antidote or I'll burn you where you sit!" There was a dreadful silence. Incredulous, the guards turned at the foot of the ladder and stared up at him, shaking with the effort of keeping the gun sighted on the grayhaired woman, but somehow finding the resources to go on. "We -- we haven't got it!" the woman quavered. "Then get it!" Spartak told her. "No, not you! You're my hostage. Send one of these bullyboys for it. And tell him to run both ways!" Vix put his hands on the guardrail, clamping them till the knuckles were white. Seeming to draw strength from his brother's example, he cried, "And tell that man below not to pull any tricks -- I saw him move for his sidearm!" The guard who had tried to get at his gun jerked his hand back from his waist, holding It out at his side. "Hurry!" Spartak rasped. "Your conditioning is good. I might decide I have to give in -- but I'll burn you first!" The woman shrieked terrified orders, and the guards broke as one to dash back to the port control building and fetch what was required. T he time that passed now was hardly human-scaled, inside Spartak's overstrained mind. It was time slow enough to suit the growth of galaxies, the cooling of suns. Yet there was nothing in all of space except a frightened fat woman on a ridiculous little groundcar, trembling as the gun stayed aligned with her head. Could he endure? His guts were chilled with nausea; his vision was swimming and there were random, insane noises in his ears. The metal of the gun seemed alternately burning hot and freezing cold, and often he had the illusion that -- like Vix -- he was not gripping the trigger, but fumbling in front of and behind it. "There he comes!" Vix said. He pointed, but Spartak dared not lode away from the sole focus of his attention. "Let him bring it up," he breathed. "Put it alongside the girl's head." "Bring what up?" Vix glanced at him in wonder and not a little admiration. "Oh! Not the guard coming back -- but Tiorin! I can see his red hair plainly!" "I don't care about Tiorin," Spartak said. A vague puzzlement flashed across his mind: he did care really, didn't he? Only somehow it was less important than the main purpose, the bringing of the antidote for catatone... "Spartak, listen to me," Vix was saying out of infinite distance. "Spartak, Tiorin is here -- he's come up to the lock and brought the antidote with him. I told the gaurd to give it to him and here he is and he's brought it. You can put down the gun and we can leave." Spartak's temporary universe, containing only himself, the gun and its target, crumbled, and utter darkness overwhelmed him. XI T wo blurred faces topped with red hair swam in Spartak's unfocused vision. He struggled to bring the images into register with one another. The effort made his eyes hurt. He gave up, and only then discovered that there were two faces in reality, not merely in his imagination. One of them belonged to Vix. But the other -- IF Of course. Tiorin! Memory came Hooding back, and he was able to force himself up on his elbows. He was lying on one of the bunks in the upper cabin, and both his brothers were leaning over him with expressions of concern. "Spartak?" Tiorin said doubtfully. "How do you feel?" Thoughtfully Spartak took stock of his body and still more of his bruised mind. He said evenutally, "Bad. But I'll survive." "By the moons of Argus, it's a miracle," Vix declared. "I shall never know till my dying day how you managed to keep that gun on its target. I had something like that in mind, but I couldn't control my hands under the conditioning." "They're alleged to know a good many things on Annanworld which have been forgotten elsewhere in the galaxy," Tiorin said. "Where's that jug of broth your girl brought? Oh, there. Give some of it to Spartak -- it'll help to restore his strength." Vix carefully set the spout of the jug to Spartak's lips, his other arm serving as a prop behind the younger man's shoulders. Spartak sipped and sipped again; the broth was hot and spicy, and he thought he detected the faint flavor of some energy concentrate under the masking tastes. Meantime, he had a chance to look at Tiorin, whom he had not seen since the day of Hodat's accession to the Warden's chair. His second brother had aged noticeably. He would in fact be -- Spartak calculated rapidly -- fortyone, which in the heyday of galactic civilization had been youth, not early middle age. But the extreme wealth of the Empire was needed to support freely available geriatric treatment. Now, and for the foreseeable future, only those fortunate enough to inhabit secure planets like Annanworld would enjoy the old benefits. He had a passing vision of peasants grubbing on decadent worlds, mating in their teens, the women worn out by childbirth at age thirty. It was not a pleasant idea, and Spartak spoke hostily to distract his mind. "Tiorin, it's incredible that we should have located you!" "Not really." Even Tiorin's voice had changed from what Spartak recalled: grown deeper and become colored with a sort of drawl to suggest that he weighed every single word. "I've been explaining to Vix how it happened. Right now, he tells me, you're feeling very annoyed at the pretensions of the rump of the Empire. But it saved my life by still possessing some of the old advantages -- an efficient lawforce, swift communications... It was no secret that I was second son to the former Warden of Asconei, you see. I'd found it helpful to draw on the small prestige this conferred. And when Bucyon's assassin arrived, and started asking rather too freely where he could find me, some inspired official grew alarmed. He sent a warning to me, and we laid a trap for the would-be killer. It was from him that I learned about this hellish cult Bueyon has imported, and also of course about the death of our brother Hodat." A shadow crossed his prematurely lined face. "Accordingly, I had it noised about that I'd gone to beg Imperial aid in the deposition of the usurper at the court of Argus." "I still don't see why you didn't," Vix muttered. "You of all people should know," Tiorin retorted. "Holding what it has is beyond the Empire's power now. Whole fleets are rebelling and setting up on their own. What chance would I have had of securing aid except on terms that would be ruinous to Asconel? Do you know what price the old Twenty-Seventh Fleet set for their return to Imperial jurisdiction? You, Spartak?" On receiving headshakes, he concluded, "The free right to sack the planet Norge!" S partak, shocked beyond measure, pushed aside the empty jug of broth. "But Norge was one of the last Imperial outposts beyond Delcadore!" "Still is. The price was refused. But the point is: the price was set. I'd have had to promise something similar in respect of Asconel, and I wouldn't have had the heart." Tiorin scowled. "No. it seemed to me that my only hope was to exploit my inborn capital as Hodat's legal heir. That's why I hired agents to inform me of the arrival of any ship from Asconel. I was afraid the most likely occupants of such a ship would be more assassins, out to complete the job I'd once frustrated, but by good luck yours was the first vessel to reach Delcadore." "You're relying on your appeal to the citizens to make them rise up in support of you against Bucyon?" Spartak suggested. "So are you, I gather," Tiorin countered. Spartak shook his head heavily. He said, "I talked with Korisu, the man Bucyon sent to murder Vix -- and of course myself as well if possible. My judgment is that if Bucyon has contrived to turn a once-loyal citizen of Asconel into a fanatic supporter of ' his regime and his cult, it's going to take more than simply fomenting a counterrevolution to set our planet free." There was a depressed pause. Vix broke it with his habitual intolerance of extended silence. "We're going to have all the time in the galaxy to work out our plans," he grunted. "Once you dropped that gun and keeled over, Spartak, the conditioning took hold on me, and I had --  had -- to get to the controls and set our course for this planet Nylock. And we're well on the way there now." "The girl!" Spartak said, and swung his feet to the floor. "Did you give her the antidote?" "We thought we'd better not," Tiorin admitted. "Obviously you knew something about medicine in general and catatone in particular, and I'm afraid I've learned little about anything in the years we've been apart. I've gone on indulging myself." "Wise of you, I guess, but..." Spartak stood up, swaying, and had to close his eyes briefly as empathic agony stabbed him at the thought of IF the torment the mutant girl was undergoing. "Where is she?" "I told Vineta to make her comfortable in the other cabin," Vix muttered. Spartak hesitated. Then he spoke his mind, as his training on Annanworld had accustomed him to do. "Listen, Vix! It's painfully obvious that you hate the idea of having a mind-reader aboard. I guess you'd rather leave her the way the Empire liked to have her -- incapable of speech, so she can't give away any secrets she picks up. But mutant or not she's a human being, and sheer chance decreed that she should be gifted with abnormal talents rather than you or I or Tiorin. If she's survived into her teens, she's bound to have learned discretion and foresight. She won't blab the things you want to keep private." "I hope not," Vix shrugged. But he seemed ashamed of himself, and turned away without comment. "Here's the phial of antidote," Tiorin said, fumbling in his beltpouch. "I hope it's the real stuff, not some fake they palmed off on us to make us leave the planet." "We'll soon find out," Spartak answered grimly. V ineta looked up, startled, as he entered the lower cabin, then gave him one of her quick shy smiles. He nodded in response before dropping to his knees alongside the mutant girl and reaching for his medical case. "She doesn't move at all!" Vineta exclaimed. "She is alive, isn't she? But how does she breathe?" It was an astute question. Not for the first time Spartak found himself suspecting that this self-effacing girl was the exact opposite of Vix: where he talked much and thought rather too little, she probably thought a great deal despite speaking very seldom. "You haven't looked under this covering?" he suggested. Vineta nodded. "She's clothed in some thick garment. I couldn't see how it fastened, so I left it." Spartak drew the blanket aside. The girl's body was revealed completely enclosed in a suit that glistened as if wet. A bulging hump showed across her bosom; another made her belly rise as though she were pregnant. "Yes, I've seen that technique before," he said -- more to himself than Vineta. "Turn her head on the side, please. I shall have to put the antidote into the neck arteries; if I take the suit off she'll suffocate before I save her." If Tiorin s ghastly suspicion is correct , she'll die anyway... But he drove down that thought and administered the antidote with deft fingers. Seconds dragged away like hours -- and she moved. Spartak realized he had been holding his breath; he exhaled gustily. "Now we must get the suit off, quickly. See, it fastens on the shoulders and at the hips. Open that side." With a sucking noise the wet-looking material let go. The skin revealed was pallid and unhealthy, somewhat swollen with accumulated fluids. "That's how she breathed -- see?" he explained, as the mound on her bosom was exposed, and proved to be a machine in a metal casing. "That drives air in and out and acts as a pacemaker for her heart. And this -- " the similar device on her belly -- "takes care of bodily wastes. But not very well." Now the mutant girl had sufficiently recovered for an expression to come to her face, and at the sight of it Vineta could not stifle an exclamation of horror. It was the worst look of pain Spartak had even seen. "Can you do massage?" he demanded, stacking the prosthetic machines all anyhow on a handy shelf. "Space knows how long she's been kept from moving -- the return of normal sensation will be pure torture!" Vineta's hands flew to the pale stiff limbs and began to rub. # # r "P'hank you." The words came A on breath alone, barely audible. "Thank you. You can stop now. The pain's gone." Spartak sat back, exhausted, and stared at the girl. "Are you sure?" "Quite sure." A sharp tongue slipped out to moisten her lips, which were chapped. "You are Spartak, yes? And you are Vineta?" Spartak's eyebrows drew together. So far as he could recall, he hadn't addressed Vineta by name, nor been addressed, since entering the cabin. He said, "Did you read our names from our minds?" A smile came and went on the mutant girl's face. She said, a trifle louder as her vocal cords came under control, "Yes. And it feels very good. I have felt so much fear in people who knew what I am, but in your mind I feel -- what to call it? Curiosity, I think. And in hers much kindness. I am so glad to be here." "Then you also know what's going to happen to you?" Spartak suggested. "Yes. And I see why you ask. Frankly, I don't care where I go so long as it's away from -- from the past." The small sharp-featured face clouded. "I'll let you rest now," Spartak said. "Vineta, perhaps you should bring her some of that broth you made for me. It seems to have brought about my recovery from shock very quickly." A point struck him, and went unvoiced by deliberate decision as his eyes returned to the mutant girl. She gave a thin chuckle. "My name's Eunora," she said. "You have a clear mind, Spartak. It's like looking into a deep transparent pool of pure water, and I can see all the way to the rocks at the bottom except in one place. And that's where you've been conditioned to take me to Nylock." "I imagine," Spartak said with difficulty, "that you can make allowances for my brothers. I don't think they feel as I do about -- about people like you." "No, I can sense them. Just barely." Eunora shut her eyes and seemed to be listening to distant noises. "They are both full of resentment. The conditioning lies on IF all their thoughts like dense fog, and one of them can't help thinking that I'm responsible for the delay in your mission." After that, silence. Spartak caught Vineta's eye and nodded her out of the cabin. Then he went, heavyhearted to rejoin his brothers. T he two others had gone up to the control room again. As he approached the door, he heard Vix's voice raised. "Well, I know Spartak's views on this, because he told me." "And they are -- ?" Tiorin prompted. "That we might have spent months hunting you, maybe going clear to Argus on the false trail you laid, so we should be glad our only delay is this little side trip to Nylock" "Suitably philosophical, I guess," Tiorin replied as Spartak paused outside the door, "for someone who took vows to an order on Annanworld. It's a hotbed of philosophy, I'm told. For my part, I agree with you. If luck runs your way you ought to grab its tail and hang on tight! Is there no means whereby we could get around the conditioning imposed on you? I'm not conditioned. Could you give me a course of instruction and let me fly the ship to Asconel?" "No, for two reasons." Spartak slid the door aside and stepped into their view. "First, conditioning of this order of efficiency turns your own mind against your wishes. If Vix were to try and teach you how to pilot the ship, he'd so instruct you as to insure that you set course for where we're commanded to go. Or, if by some miracle he avoided that trap, he and I and probably Vineta would conspire to take the controls away from you again. And secondly, even if you did succeed in getting us to Asconel, we'd arrive there in the sort of state I was in when they finally brought the antidote for Eunora. Only worse. The strain might literally kill us; I'd certainly expect us to be incurably insane." "The girl!" Reminded of his other omnipresent anxiety, Vix tensed. "Did you -- uh -- cure her?" "And what was the name you used?" Tiorin added. "Eunora." Spartak combed at his beard with agitated fingers. "I guess you could . say she's cured. She's released from the paralysis, at least. But I'm astonished at how normal and level-headed she seems. It's not what you'd expect from someone of her age -- still very young -- treated in such an abominable fashion." He paused and frowned. "Oh -- maybe I'm being overly suspicious. Maybe she's just so glad to get free of the Imperials and the people who were apt to stone her..." "Is that what they were going to do?" Tiorin exclaimed. "So we were told by that fat old fool at the spaceport on Delcadore," Vix confirmed. "Well, we have to make the most of our chances such as they are. Spartak, when you came in we were discussing how to tackle the problem. Tiorin has unconfirmed reports of a center of resistance established by Tigrid Zen on Gwo." "How old are the reports?" Spartak asked sourly. "Gwo is too close and too obvious for Bucyon to overlook it." He had been taken to Gwo once, and never forgotten the impression it made on him; marginally habitable, it served Asconel and five or six neighboring systems as a source of raw materials, the far greater distance for transport as compared with asteroids in their own systems being counterbalanced by the extra convenience of working with breathable atmosphere. It was a bleak, oppressive world, its vegetation drab olive and gray, its climate wet and windy, its oceans perpetually tossed by storms. The point apparently hadn't occurred to Vix. He glanced at Tiorin. "Is this something you had from Bucyon's assassin?" Tiorin nodded. "But I did confirm the story by checking with the crews of ships that had recently passed within earshot, so to speak, of Asconel. There's a spaceman's slang term for that; what is it?" "Rumor-range," Spartak answered shortly. "Four kinds of news: standing there, landing there, rumorrange and rubbish." Vix gave a humorless chuckle. "I'm surprised at you knowing that, not ever having been a spaceman yourself." Spartak made a gesture of dismissal, dropping into a seat. "Speaking of Bucyon's assassin reminded me Your tracks may be fairly well covered on Delcadore, Tiorin -- though IF after meeting Rochard, I'm not so sure of that. Ours certainly are not. The most casual inquiry on Annanworld would give a lead of Vix and me. And Bucyon is hardly likely to rest content with the triple frustration of his attempts at wiping us out. Indeed, I'm amazed he relied on lone agents. In his position, I'd stop at nothing to get rid of all of us." Tiorin nodded, his face grave. "The impression I had from the interrogation of the man sent to kill me was that fanatics deluded by the cult of Belizuek acquire the illusion of being invincible, capable of undertaking any mission singlehanded. But I grant that this isn't an impression apt to survive a succession of setbacks like the ones luck has brought us up to now." "Fanatics are tricky to handle," Spartak muttered. "If you catch them on their blind side -- say by doing something they define as impossible -- you can cope with them easily. If you stand in their way as we must stand in Bucyon's... Or do we?" "What do you mean?" Vix snapped. Then a light seemed to dawn on him. "Oh! Do you mean that this errand to dump the mutant girl is something of Bucyon's doing?" "A means of getting us out of the way? I doubt it. Even Bucyon could hardly organize a chain of coincidences like that. No, what I mean is this: if he's managed to inspire dupes like Korisu and the man sent to kill Tiorin, if he's reduced the citizens to a state of blind adoration, he may feel secure without disposing of us. He may wait for us to come home, frantic with rage, and then pick us off at his own convenience." Vix's face darkened. "By the moons of Argus, I'd like to test that idea! I'd like to set course now for Asconel and pitch Bucyon and his woman Lydis from the top of the Dragon's Fangs -- ach" The last sound was not a word, but a gasp of agony, and he doubled over. Alarmed, Spartak jolted up from his seat, but Vix waved him back. # #Qecond time that's happened," O the redhead wheezed. "If I so much as think about going straight to Asconel, I get a griping in the guts, but if I speak it out loud, it's like molten metal being poured into my belly." "It's the conditioning," Tiorin said. "It must be." Spartak nodded. "Think about Nylock," he urged Vix. "Think about going to Asconel after we've left the mutant girl behind. It'll calm you and you'll be eased." "Go on talking on those lines," Vix whispered. The whole of his face had paled to the whiteness of his long scar. "Uh -- yes." Spartak turned to Tiorin. "Well, the simple plan is to link up with the rebels. If any. As a starter." Tiorin scowled. "We have the mystique of our blood to draw support, descended as we are from the Warden who steered Asconel through the storms which followed the collapse of Argian influence in our sector of the galaxy. That might tip the scales in our favor. But after ourselves, I know no one more likely to rally resistance to Bucyon than Tigrid Zen, and if he's failed..." He shrugged despondently. "We're guessing," Spartak said angrily. "What we need to do is make straight for Asconel -- contact Tigrid Zen if we can, but not chasing him if he's gone hunting support in some other system. Then on Asconel, perhaps disguised, we ought to -- " He broke off. Tiorin was gazing at him queerly. "What is it?" he demanded. "You just said 'make straight for Asconel'," Tiorin exclaimed. "And nothing happened to you! When Vix said the same thing, more or less, he doubled up in pain." Blank, Spartak tried it again. "We should make straight for Asconel. I want to go straight there now. I intend to go straight there now" He jumped to his feet. "By the moons of Argus, you're right! Vix, try it!" "I -- !" Vix moistened his lips and gathered his courage, fearing another blast of the torture which had overcome him moments earlier. "I want to go to Asconel. Now." And slowly a smile replaced his look of anxiety. "The conditioning's failed!" Tiorin exploded. "It must have been badly implanted -- " "No!" Spartak rapped. "I felt it, and believe me. I know. The psychologists who treated us knew their job. Either we're suffering from a delusion, implanted as a second line of defense against the breakIF down of the main commands, or -- No, that can't be right. We have you as a control, Tiorin; you're not conditioned, and you'd observe that. Then that leaves one single possibility, and I think I know what it is." "Tell us!" cried. Vix, almost beside himself with joy at being unexpectedly released from his invisible bonds. "Eunora," Spartak said. "What? The mind-reading girl?" Vix took half a pace back as though recoiling from a physical shock. "But -- how?" "I don't pretend to know that," Spartak said. "I'm just eliminating the things I know to be out of the question, and I find one unknown factor operating. Let's go see her and find out." "That won't be necessary," a soft voice said, and the panel of the door slid aside to reveal Eunora herself. Spartak had not realized till this moment how tiny she actually was. She barely came to Vix's elbow, and he was the shortest of the three men. She had borrowed one of the costumes he had seen in Vineta's closet when he boarded the ship on Annanworld, and it hung loosely on her as though she were a child dressing up in her mother's clothes. "Eunora! Did you take the conditioning off us?" Spartak blurted. The girl gave a grave nod. "Then I can't begin to tell you how grateful we are!" "That's right!" Vix confirmed. His face was alight with enthusiasm. "Why, you may have saved a whole planet's people by saving us that trip to Nylock!" Eunora didn't answer at once. She walked into the control room with careful, mincing steps, seeming still to be finding out how her unparalyzed legs should support her. Behind her, a trifle nervous, but looking calm enough, came Vineta, who had presumably tried to dissuade her from leaving her cabin and failed. "I didn't know about this -- this conditioning " the mutant girl said at last. "It was only when I felt the pain and twisting in your mind -- " nodding to Vix -- "that I decided I had to find out about it. It's . , . interesting." A nameless premonition filled the air. "It's difficult being a mutant," the soft voice went on. "Hardly daring to use the gift -- afraid all the time that it will leak out and then there'll out my noticing. I have more talents than I ever realized. I was able to work on your minds like a locksmith picking locks, locating and releasing all the implanted orders." She gave a little crazy giggle. "And when you see how it's done, it's so simple!" Spartak's whole body had gone cold as ice. He waited numbly, for her to make the point which he foresaw with terror. "Asconel. That's where you want to go. But I don't think I like the idea much. It's an Imperial world -- or was. So they don't tolerate my kind of people. Also it's going to be a place of fighting. I can see that in your mind, Vix. You want to go mere and fight against these priests and this man called Bucyon, and because you're so frightened of having your mind probed you'll probably be glad if something bad happens to me. Spartak perhaps not. I don't know. But even he... She hesitated. Then she giggled again. "Well, I've found out about conditioning now. I see how it's done. I think I can probably make you do what I want. There's only one question that remains: it's such a big galaxy, so where shall I make you take me?" She looked around her petrified audience with mocking eyes. "Go on!" she urged. "Think of the other places I might like to be taken -- anywhere but Asconel or back where I came from -- and then I'll make you pilot me there!"    Coming Next Month    A long novella by the author of Iceworld, Mission of Gravity , Needle and many other great sf stories    The astounding conclusion of by John Brunner    Don't miss the May issue of If! And Coming Up Later -- Starts in June issue Complete in July issue -- and many more great stories coming up in If! IF IF  Short Story What T and I Did ' am a decent human being . But hat T -- don't trust him, evert M y first awareness is of location. I am in a large conical room inside some vast vehicle, hurling through space. The world is familiar to me, though I am new. "He's awake!" says a black-haired young woman, watching me with frightened eyes. Half a dozen people in disheveled clothing, the three men long unshaven, gather slowly in my field of vision. My field of vision? My left hand comes up to feel about my face, and its fingers find my left eye covered with a patch. "Don't disturb that!" says the tallest of the men. Probably he was once a distinguished figure. He speaks sharply, yet his manner is different, as if I am a person of importance. But I am only -- who? "What's happened?" I ask. My tongue has trouble finding even the simplest words. My right arm lies at my side as if forgotten, but it stirs at my thought, and with its help I raise myself to a sitting position, provoking an onrush of pain through my head, and dizziness. Two of the women backed away from me. A stout young man puts a protective arm around each of them. These people are familiar to me, but I cannot find their names. "You'd better take it easy," says the tallest man. His hands, a doctor's, touch my head and my pulse, and ease me back onto the padded table. Now I see that two tall humanoid robots stand flanking me. I expect that at any moment the doctor will order them to wheel me away to my hospital room. Still, I know better; this is no hospital. The truth will be terrible when I remember it. "How do you feel?" asks the third man, an oldster, coming forward to bend over me. "All right. I guess." My speech comes only in poor fragments. "What's happened?" "There was a battle," says the doctor. "You were hurt, but I've saved your life." "Well. Good." My pain and dizziness are subsiding. In a satisfied tone the doctor says: "It's to be expected that you'll have difficulty speaking. Here, try to read this." He holds up a card, marked with neat rows of what I suppose are letters or numerals. I see plainly the shapes of the symbols, but they mean nothing to me, nothing at all. "No," I say finally, closing my eye and lying back. I feel plainly that everyone is hostile to me. Why? I persist: "What's happened?" TTe're all prisoners, here in  side the machine," says the old man's voice. "Do you remember that much?" "Yes." I nod, remembering. But details are very hazy. "My name?" I ask. The old man chuckles drily, sounding relieved. "Why not Thad -- for Thaddeus?" "Thad?" questions the doctor. I open my eye again. Power and confidence are growing in the doctor; because of something I have done, or have not done? "Your name is Thad," he tells me. "We're prisoners?" I question him. "Of a machine?" "Of a berserker machine." He sighs. "Does that mean anything to you?" Deep in my mind, it means something that will not bear looking at. I am spared; I sleep. When I awake again, I feel stronger. The table is gone, and I recline on the soft floor of this cabin or cell, this white cone-shaped place of imprisonment. The two robots still stand by me, why I do not know. "Atsog!" I cry aloud, suddenly remembering more. I had happened to be on the planet Atsog when the great fleet of the unliving, the berserker machines, attacked. The seven of us here were among the few survivors, carried out of the deep shelters by the raiding machines. The memory is vague and jumbled, and invested with horror. "He's awake!" says someone again. Again the women shrink from me. The old man raises his quivering head to look, from where he and the doctor seem to be in conference. The stout young man jumps to his feet, facing me, fists clenched, as if I had threatened him. "How are you, Thad?" the doctor calls. After a moment's glance my way, he answers himself: "He's all right. One of you girls help him with some food. Or you, Halsted." "Help him? God!" The blackhaired girl flattens herself against the wall, as far from me as possible. The other two women crouch washing someone's garment in our prison sink. They only look at me and wash away. My head is not bandaged for nothing. I must be truly hideous, my face must be monstrously deformed, for three women to look so pitilessly at me. The doctor is impatient. "Someone feed him, it must be done." "He'll get no help from me," says the stout young man. "There are limits." The black-haired girl begins to move across the chamber toward me, everyone watching her. "You would?" the young man marvels to her, and shakes his head. IF S he moves slowly, as if walking is painful to her. Doubtless she too was injured in the battle; there are old healing bruises on her face. She kneels beside me, and guides my left hand to help me eat, and gives me water. My right side is not paralyzed, but somehow unresponsive. When the doctor comes close again, I say: "My eye. Can I see?" Ke is quick to push my fingers away from the eyepatch. "For the present, you must use only your left eye. You've undergone brain surgery. If you take off that patch now, the consequences could be very serious, let me warn you." I think he is being deceptive about the eyepatch. Why? The black-haired girl asks me: "Have you remembered anything more?" "Yes. Before Atsog fell, we heard that Johann Karlsen was leading out a fleet, to defend Sol." All of them stare at me, hanging on my words. But they must know better than I what happened. "Did Karlsen win the battle?" I plead. Then I realize that we are prisoners still. I weep, "There've been no new prisoners brought in here," says the doctor, watching me carefully. "I think Karlsen has beaten the berserkers. I think this machine is now fleeing from the human fleet. How does that make you feel?" "How?" Has my understanding failed with my verbal skills? "Good." They all relax slightly. "Your skull was cracked when we bounced around in the battle," the old man tells me. "You're lucky a famous surgeon was here." He nods his head. "The machine wants all of us kept alive, so it can study us. It gave the doctor what he needed to operate, and if he'd let you die, or remain paralyzed, things would have been bad for him. Yessir, it made that plain." "Mirror?" I ask. I gesture at my face. "I must see. How bad." "We don't have a mirror," says one of the women at the sink, as if blaming me for die lack. "Your face? It's not disfigured," says the doctor. His tone is convincing, or would be if I were not certain of my deformity. I regret that these good people must put up with my monster-presence, compounding all their other troubles. "I'm sorry," I say, and turn from them, trying to conceal my face. "You really don't know," says the black-haired girl, who has watched me silently for a long time. "He doesn't know!" Her voice chokes. "Oh -- Thad. Your face is all right." T rue enough, the skin of my face feels smooth and normal when my fingers touch It. 'fhe blackhaired girl watches me with pity. Rounding her shoulder, from inside her dress, are half-healed marks like the scars of a lash. "Someone's hurt you," I say, frightened. One of the women at the sink laughs nervously. The young man mutters something. I raise my left hand to hide my hideous face. My right comes up and crosses over to finger the edges of the eyepatch. Suddenly the young man swears aloud, and points at where a door has opened in the wall. "The machine must want your advice on something," he tells me harshly. His manner is that of a man who wants to be angry but does not dare. Who am I, what am I, that these people hate me so? I get to my feet, strong enough to walk. I remember that I am the one who goes to speak alone with the machine. In a lonely passage it offers me two scanners and a speaker as its visible face. I know that the cubic miles of the great berserker machine surround me, carrying me through space, and I remember standing in this spot before the battle, talking with it, but I have no idea what was said. In fact I cannot recall the words of any conversation I have ever held. "The plan you suggested has failed, and Karlsen still functions," says the cracked machine voice, hissing and scraping in the tones of a stage villain. What could I have ever suggested, to this horrible thing? "I remember very little," I say. "My brain has been hurt." "If you are lying about your memory, understand that I am not deceived," says the machine. "Punishing you for your plan's failure will not advance my purpose. I know that you live outside the laws of human organization, that you even refuse to use a full human name. Knowing you, I trust you to help me against the organization of intelligent life. You will remain in command of the other prisoners. See that your damaged tissues are repaired as fully as possible. Soon we will attack life in a new way." There is a pause, but I have nothing to say. Then the noisy speaker scrapes into silence, and the scanner-eyes dim. Does it watch me still, in secret? But it said it trusted me, this nightmare enemy said it trusted in my evil to make me its ally. Now I have enough memory to know its speaks the truth about me. My despair is so great I feel sure that Karlsen did not win the battle. Everything is hopeless, because of the horror inside me. I have betrayed all life. To what bottom of evil have I not descended? As I turn from the lifeless scanners, my eye catches a movement -- my own reflection, in polished metal. I face the flat shiny bulkhead, staring at myself. My scalp is bandaged, and my left eye. That I knew already. There is some discoloration around my right eye, but nothing shockingly repulsive. What I can see of my hair is light brown, matching my two months' unkempt beard. Nose and mouth and jaw are normal enough. There is no horror in my face. The horror lies inside me. I have Like the skin around my right eye, that bordering my left eye's patch is tinged with blue and greenish-yellow, hemoglobin spilled under the skin and breaking down, some result of the surgeon's work inside my head. IF I remember his warning, but the eye-patch has the fascination for my fingers that a sore tooth has for the tongue, only far stronger. The horror is centered in my evil left eye, and I cannot keep from probing after it. My right hand flies eagerly into action, pulling the patch away. I blink, and the world is blurred... I see with two eyes, and then I die. T staggered in the passage, growling and groaning his rage, the black eyepatch gripped in his fingers. He had language now, he had a foul torrent of words, and he used them until his weak breath failed. He stumbled, hurrying through the passage toward the prison chamber, wild to get at the wise punks who had tried such smooth trickery to get rid of him. Hypnotism, or whatever. Rename him, would they? He'd show them Thaddeus. T reached the door and threw it open, gasping in his weakness, and walked out into the prison chamber. The doctor's shocked face showed that he realized T was back in control. "Where's my whip?" T glared around him. "What wise punk hid it?" The women screamed. Young Halsted realized that the Thaddeus scheme had failed; he gave a kind of hopeless yell and charged, swinging like a crazy man. Of course T's robot bodyguards were too fast for any human. One of them blocked Halsted's punch with a metal fist, so the stout man yelped and folded up, nursing his hand. "Get me my whip!" A robot went immediately to reach behind the sink, pull out the knotted plastic cord, and bring it to the master. T thumped the robot jovially, and smiled at the cringing lot of his fellow prisoners. He ran the whip through his fingers, and the fingers of his left hand felt numb. He flexed them impatiently. "What'sa matter, there, Mr. Halsted? Somethin' wrong with your hand? Don't wanna give me a handshake, welcome me back? C'mon, let's shake!" The way Halsted squirmed around on the floor was so funny T had to pause and give himself up to laughing. "Listen you people," he said when he got his breath. "My fine friends. The machine says I'm still in charge, see? That little information I gave it about Karlsen did the trick. Sol is lost. Boom! Haw haw haw! So you better try to keep me happy, 'cause the machine's still backing me a hunnerd per cent. You, Doc." T's left hand began trembling uncontrollably, and he waved it. "You were gonna change me, huh? You did somethin' nice to fix me up?" Doc held his surgeon's hands behind him, as if he hoped to protect them. "I couldn't have made a new pattern for your character if I had tried -- unless I went all the way, and turned you into a vegetable. That I might have done." "Now you wish you had. But you were scared of what the machine would do to you. Still, you tried somethin', huh?" "Yes, to save your life." Doc stood up straight. "Your injury precipitated a severe and almost continuous epileptoid seizure, which the removal of the blood dot from your brain did not relieve. So, I divided the corpus callosum." T flicked his whip. "What's that mean?" #xrou see -- the right hemisjl phere, the dominant one in most people, controls the right side, and handles most judgment involving symbols." "I know. When you get a stroke, the clot is on the opposite side from the paralysis." "Correct." Doc raised his chin. "T, I split your brain, right side from left. That's as simply as I can put it. It's an old but effective procedure for treating severe epilepsy, and the best I could do for you here. I'll take an oath on that, or a lie test -- " "Shuddup! I'll give you a lie test!" T strode shakily forward. "What's gonna happen to me?" "As a surgeon, I can say only that you may reasonably expect many years of practically normal life." "Normal!" T took another step, raising his whip. "Why'd you patch my good eye, and start calling me Thaddeus?" "That was my idea," interrupted the old man, in a quavery voice. "I thought -- in a man like yourself, there had to be someone, some component, like Thad. With the psychological pressure we're under here, I thought Thad just might come out, if we gave him a chance in your right hemisphere. It was my idea. If it hurt you any, blame me." "I will." But T seemed, for the moment, more interested than enraged. "Who is this Thaddeus?" "You are," said the doctor. "We couldn't put anyone else into your skull." "Jude Thaddeus," said the old man, "was a contemporary of Judas Iscariot. A similarity of names, but -- " He shrugged. T made a whistling, snorting sound, a single laugh. "You figured there was good in me, huh? It just had to come out sometime? Why, I'd say you were crazy, but you're not. Thaddeus was real. He was there in my head for a while. Maybe he's still there, hiding. How do I get at him, huh?" T raised his right hand and jabbed a finger gently at the corner of his right eye. "Ow. I don't like to be hurt. I got a delicate nervous system. Doc, how come his eye is on the right side if everything crosses over? And if it's his eye, how come I hafta feel what happens to it?" "I divided the optic chiasm, too. It's a somewhat complicated -- " "Never mind. We'll show Thaddeus who's boss. He can watch with the rest of you. Hey, Blacky, c'mere. We haven't played together for a while, have we?" "No," the girl whispered. She hugged her arms around herself, nearly fainting. But she walked toward T. Two months as his slaves had taught all of them that obedience was easiest. "You like this punk Thad, huh?" T whispered, when she halted before him. "You think his face is aH IF right, do you? How about my face? Look at me!" T saw his own left hand reach out, and touch the girl's cheek, gently and lovingly. He could see in her startled face that she felt Thaddeus in his hand; never had her eyes looked this way at T before. T cried out and raised his whip to strike her, and his left hand flew across his body to seize his own right wrist, like a terrier clamping jaws on a snake. Ts right hand still gripped the whip, but he thought the bones of his wrist were cracking. His legs tangled each other and he fell. He tried to shout for help, and could utter only a roaring noise. His robots stood watching. It seemed a long time before the doctor's face loomed over him, and the black patch descended gently upon his left eye. N ow I understand more deeply, and I accept. At first I wanted the doctor to remove my left eye, and the old man agreed, quoting some ancient Believers' book to the effect that an offending eye should be plucked out. An eye would be a small price to rid myself of T. But after some thought, the doctor refused. "T is yourself," he said at last. "I can't point to him with my scalpel, and cut him out, although it seems I helped to separate the two of you. Now you control both sides of the body; once he did." The doctor smiled wearily. "Imagine a committee of three, a troika inside your skull. Thaddeus is one, T another -- and the third is the person, the force, that casts the deciding vote. You. That's the best I can tell you." And the old man nodded. Mostly, I do without the eye patch now. Reading and speaking are easier when I use my long-dominant left brain, and I am still Thaddeus -- perhaps because I choose to be Thaddeus. Could it be that terribly simple? Periodically I talk with the berserker, which still trusts in T's greedy outlawry. With their fleet ruined by Karlsen, the machines now search for new ways of attacking humanity. This one means to counterfeit much money, coins and notes, give the money to me, and deliver me in small launch to a highly civilized planet, relying on my greed to weaken men there and set them against each other. But this machine is too damaged to watch its prisoners steadily, or it does not bother. With my freedom to move I have welded some of the silver coins into a ring, chilled this ring to superconductivity, and put it in a chamber near the berserker's unliving heart. Halsted tells me we can use this ring, carrying a permanent electric current, to trigger the launch's C-plus drive prematurely, and tear our berserker open from inside. We may damage it enough to save ourselves. Or we may all be killed. But while I live, I, Thaddeus, rule myself; and both my hands are gentle, touching long black hair. by Jeff Renner ijsmi (V Across the sea of darkness, Across the sea of stars, Beyond the hills of earth so green, Beyond the sands of Mars. Are wonders never dreamt by man, Are fancies unfulfilled, Are other islands in the sky, Are truths yet undistilled. And all these things forbade to man, Until his childhood's end, No longer a stranger in a strange land, But a creature with a gift to lend. For there'll come the day when he throws away The binding chains of Earth, And while all the heavens stop and watch, He'll enter his rebirth. He'll flit between the planets, So easily will this be done, From Earth to Moon, Mars, Neptune, The children of the sun. (With apologies to Henry Kuttner, C. L. Moore, Robert A. Heinlein, Arthur C. Clarke, John Wyndham, Poul Anderson, Jack Vance, Clifford D. Simak, Brian W. Aldiss, Frederik Pohl, Jack But there are more than three worlds to conquer, If man is to become the star king, These are but the toddling steps, To gain the most valuable thing. For soon he'll leave his big front yard, And with it all his fears, And embark upon his longest voyage, Across the dark light-years. He'll sail far beyond this horizon, Far beyond the reefs of space, And here on Earth shall gather the stars, Members of every conceivable race. All these things will be done. All these things will come to be, When a small, lost creature called man, Sets out to fulfill his destiny -- Across the sea of darkness, Across the sea of stars, Beyond the hills of earth so green, Beyond the sands of Mars. He'll soar beyond all estimation, And to the stars -- his destination! IF  Novelette The slaves of Gree hadn't any business on this planet... which made it Steve Duke's business to find out why they were I T hough it was only a routine investigation of a comet, near an unimportant sun, in a part of the galaxy where Gree's forces weren't expected, Steve Duke took all proper precautions. It was good that he did, for when he brought his squadron of Scout ships out of null the radar screens were suddenly full of blips, at various ranges but converging. Since he couldn't null out again for about ten minutes, he jabbed at certain buttons on his command console and snapped orders into his helmet mike. "All therel ships! I'm locking you in central control. Evasive action in thirty seconds. Battle Condition One!" He darted quick looks at his own staff to make sure they were ready. "Com One?" That was his own communications officer, who jerked his head in acknowledgement. Steve told him, "Tape this contact into message drones and send off one a minute. Gunnery One, see that cluster at ten by six by nine? Put a C-# in front of it." His gunnery officer punched buttons, and a blue line began to grow from the center of the gunnery plot screen. Steve grinned as a recruit stared at it nervously. He could remember his own first action. The blue line disappeared and the visual screens all blanked out momentarily as the missile, a simple light-maker, detonated. The cluster of radar blips had already opened out radially away from the missile's path. They had the sense and the mobility, then, to avoid a single missile. They swerved fast; three or four times the acceleration a humanoid could stand. He glanced at a mass indicator trained on them. The individual objects, whatever they were, had only about a fourth the mass of a man in a spacebag. The metal detector said they weren't metallic. His evasion pattern began and he fought dizziness from the abrupt changes of direction. He snapped orders to individual ships. "Four; don't let that bunch close in on you. Use local fire-control; light anti-personnel stuff. Six and Eleven, I'm unlocking you. Move out fifty miles to one by five by two and lay proximity mines. Come straight back in and we'll give you a barrage. Four! Watch that bunch ahead of you! They might -- " He broke off and punched for a swift realignment and retreat of the whole squadron; but the blips were maneuvering like a swarm of computer-directed hornets, feinting, swerving suddenly into concerted attacks from unguessable angles. "Local Fire Control I" he barked, "All units!" T hen it was a chaos too fast for human senses. The automatics found concentrations and sent missiles streaking; whipped space with giant laser beams. On his console a figure # blinked red. A frantic voice screamed tinnily in his earphones. "One One! We're hit! Colonel O' ike, we're -- " The humanoid, whom Steve recognized by his voice as a young Second-In-Command, got control of himself. "One One, this is Four Two. Compartments One and Three knocked out by low-grade detonation. Radiation low -- er, point zero one seven. Do you read me?" Steve shot a glance at his own Com officer, who nodded and replied to the striken ship. Steve blocked two more ships into his own fire control and personally laid down a barrage around Six and Eleven, who were still isolated and under heavy attack. He got them back in without serious damage, though Six reported a detonation a few yards from her. Ship Nine died without even a chance to report. His earphones, turned down, were a babble of tiny voices reporting damage. The visual screens were useless, blanked out by a steady hell of explosions. Now, in this close-range melee, his missiles were impotent, or nearly so, but the laser beams, especially the light, quick-aiming ones, were doing good work; and the mine field he'd had the foresight to lay shielded him on one side. The radar screens were full of tiny blips shooting away aimlessly, in free fall. Suddenly the remaining attackers streaked away, joining into a group -- still two dozen or more -- then swerving to vanish into the blackness of space. Steve shot a look at a timer. Still four minutes to null. A sudden impulse seized him. He snapped, "Evasion ends!" and began unstrapping from his seat. "Two!" he called to his own Second, "Take over. Get me in a bag and outside. Send home a complete follow-up report. Null home with whatever ships can make it. Set up a random course for live ships who can't, and arrange rescue. Come back for me with two ships in -- oh, seventy-five minutes." He propelled himself to the hatch that cut off the middle compartment; jabbed at the manual controls. It opened and he slid through. He had a plastic spacebag unstowed and half rigged before his Second reached him, sputtering, "But -- but Colonel!"  "Move," Steve told him with a grin. T hey sealed him into the bag and put him out, then nulled away. Far off, to one side of the comet, Number Four and one other ship limped away through normal space, lifetimes from their base if they weren't rescued. Number Nine, to whose course and velocity he was matched, hung dark and lifeless a few hundred yards away. He approached her slowly, watching his feeble radar screen for any of the hostile blips. When he was fifty .yards from her, an object detached itself from her hull and shot away in the direction the raiders had taken. He turned on all the drive he could stand, but it was like chasing a missile. He hit the control of his photoscanner, though the light from the local sun was weak. Visually, he had a glimpse of something that lifted a small head painfully to stare back at him. The inside of the small spacebag it occupied seemed to be spattered with blood. He watched it disappear; then, furious at himself for not having sense enough to arrange some kind of a trap, he went back to examine number Nine. She'd been holed, all three compartments, probably by shaped charges. The corpses inside were not pretty. He took pictures then moved away to wait glumly for his rendezvous. He'd been in his share of space battles, and more; and had seen plenty of casualties. But this was the first time he, commanding, had ever lost ships and men. Six hours later, after a shower and a meal, he gave his first-hand report to his superiors. They were not human, nor even humanoid -- unless you could call a short-legged elf, with wings growing from the backs of his shoulders, humanoid. The Birds of Effogus had organized the resistence against Gree. T he highest-ranking one, whom Steve knew well, nodded as Steve finished, and pressed a control on his low desk. The room lights dimmed. "You got better pictures than you think, Colonel," he said in his spidery voice. "Here's a composite of several frames." A projected picture appeared on one wall. There was more detail than Steve had been able to see. It was an animal, all right, compact and muscular. It was obviously badly hurt. One IF paw clutched at a metal fitting of the bag. It had three fingers and a passable thumb. Steve squinted, trying to make out something on the head. "Can those be natural horns?" They looked like two axeblades with serrated edges, rising at a forty-five degree angle from each side of the head, set longitudinally like stabilizer fins on a submarine or aircraft. The animal's mouth was partly open, showing teeth that Steve would have classified as omnivorous. "They're horns," the Bird croaked. "What about the spacebag, Colonel? Gree workmanship?" "Yes, sir." The Bird nodded again. "Colonel, we're concerned about this. Not just as a tactical nuisance; we can devise weapons against that. But it may indicate a big advance in biological science on Gree's part. This animal's braincase is very small for the sort of intelligence you describe." Steve glanced involuntarily at the Bird's own head, and earned a dry chuckle... "Precisely the point, Colonel. When my ancestors redesigned their bodies, they were able to transfer considerable brain activity to other body tissues, thus permitting smaller heads. We'd be worried if Gree learned how to do that. Therefore, we'd like very much to know where these animals come from, and how they're trained." Steve said, a trifle sardonically, "I don't suppose there's much chance of finding out." "It may not be impossible, Colonel. We know a little from this picture. Look at the set of that thumb -- surely arboreal -- but there are running pads, too. And the animal must come from a planet with higher gravity than, for instance, your own ancestors were used to. And the fur is scant. Also, there are laws affecting evolution in certain parts of the galaxy, which may help. In addition, we may pick up logistic hints." "Well," Steve said, "I have a grudge to settle. I'd like to volunteer, in case you find the planet." The Bird chuckled again. "Your orders are already written, Colonel. As a volunteer." II S teve awoke after a few hours' sleep to find a message telling him to report to the Bird general at the computer labs. He went eagerly, never before having been admitted to that scientific sanctum sanctorum of the Birds. Things were a little peculiar inside. The hallways were barely high enough to clear his scalp, even with a little stooping, but they were fifteen-feet wide. The 'doors' that opened off the halls were horizontal panels just below ceiling level, fifteen feet wide but only two feet deep. The Bird who was guiding him flew near the ceiling, obviously having a little trouble flying slowly enough to match Steve's walk. Around a turn, they met a Bird coming the opposite way who hovered in surprise at seeing a man here. Steve had the presence of mind to press himself against one wall. The oncoming Bird swooped and passed IF under Steve's guide, wingtips brushing Steve's belt. The guide hovered before a panel, which opened for him. From inside, the general's spidery voice called, "Is that you, Colonel Duke? I'm afraid you're going to have to climb in." In a dimly lit room, the general sat (not perched) on a backless stool, with his wings drooping down behind it. Other Birds on similar stools worked at a row of keyboards along one wall. In the wall above each keyboard was a projection screen three feet square, with two more screens above it, of the same width but only six inches high. A festival of colors and symbols danced on several of the screens, sometimes seemingly in concert. The general swivelled around on his stool to face the blank wall away from the computers, and motioned with a wingtip to another stool beside him. "Sit down, Colonel. I want to show you something that happened less than an hour ago." The lights dimmed farther, and a view of a starfield flashed into being on the blank wall. The scene swung and a deep-space asteroid came into sight, spotily illuminated by light beams from a dozen space-bags. In the bags were humanoids. A small exploration ship, which Steve recognized as friendly, drifted nearby. Ship and bags were tiny toys against the huge bulk of the asteroid. The scene expanded a little as (Steve supposed) the camera drone that was taking the picture moved steadily in. T he bags were settling to the asteroid, ready to begin prospecting. Suddenly, the area was dotted with smaller bags, darting about like gnats. Steve grunted and gripped the seat of his stool, knowing what was to come. The ship moved suddenly, but too late. She died in a quick flurry of detonations that were moderate but deadly enough. The humanoids, who'd been streaking toward her, now scattered in panic. The small bags -- the animals in them tiny blurs of motion -- darted among them. One by one the larger bags collapsed. Steve was glad the picture wasn't close enough to show details of the humanoids' dying. At the last, a pitiful four or five gathered together for a hopeless mutual defense. Another moderate explosion finished them off. The projection vanished and the general turned to face Steve. "I'm afraid I underestimated the nuisance value, Colonel. We just happened to have the camera drone there because that was an interesting chunk of rock. Gree nulled those animals to the spot, a mere fifteen of them. I expect reports to start pouring in, of unexplained losses." Steve controlled the emotion the scene had raised. "Any progress in finding the planet, sir?" "I think so. Unless we're wrong, we've narrowed it down to a single star cluster." The general turned back toward the computer wall. "If you don't mind staying, we may have something within the next half hour or so." The weird dance of colors and symbols went on. A Bird near one end of the line sang something in Ihe high-pitched Effogan language. All the big screens went blank, while turrent results held on the narrow creens. The general told Steve, "The probability is confirmed. Camera drones are already nulling to the cluster, but meanwhile we'll look at Rt irs already catalogued." T he dance of colors, without symbols this time, resumed, and now Steve realized he was looking at star spectra. The general said, "There's a peculiarity of the Titanium bands in this cluster that could influence the evolution. It's mostly theory, of course, but with high computer probability." Presently the spectra stopped shifting, and two screens at one end rippled with symbols, working out some complex mathematical problem. The two operators finished and sang soft reports, which the general apparently didn't need, for he was already telling Steve, "It's narrowed down to a few dozen planets. Drones are already moving in. This will take a few minutes; we have to be careful." In twenty minutes -- time for the camera drones to null to the cluster, find the individual planets, seek out land areas, and snap pictures, then null home -- one of the operators  pulled something from a slot, spread his wings (startling Steve in the confinement of the room), and swooped to the general. The room lights came on. The general peered for a minute at a four-inchsquare card, then handed it to Steve. "You can see the animals." The photo was obviously much enlarged; blurry and confusing. Steve gradually made out clumps of trees on fairly level ground. There were some small objects which one might as well take for a troop of animals as anything else. Yes, he could see it now -- the white markings on the heads would be the horns. "The planet's livable," the general told him, "though the gravity may bother you at first. Wp thought rather than delay by acclimating you artificially, we'd set you down and let you get used to it first hand." One of the tricks for sneaking onto an enemy planet was to wait until a meteor shower made ionization trails in the atmosphere and confused enemy radar, if any. There was no shower due, so the Birds made one. Steve landed in a spacebag the power of which barely lasted, wearing a Greeslave Gunner's uniform, in foothills some miles from the spot of the photo. He buried the useless bag, buckled equipment about himself, and started hiking. Somewhere on this continent there were supposed to be hidden labs, and a garrison of Gree humanoid slaves who hunted and processed the animals. Ill T he gravity did tire him at first, though it wasn't really high. He watched local fauna to learn what not to eat, and for signs of danger. There were birds in the sky to warn of aircraft. There was a variety of small game, and plenty of nuts and IF berries, though this tended to be a dry planet. The brushland he was in didn't provide much concealment, but he camouflaged his helmet with twigs; and horizontal visibility wasn't great because of heat shimmer. That worked two ways, of course. The only really dangerous-looking predator was a thing like a large, hairless canine, probably twice his own weight, that hunted singly and silently. It had short, thick legs. There was usually one following him, but evidently only out of curiosity, since none ever gave him the taste test. He took his time, letting his muscles adjust. After ten days he was comfortable if he didn't exert himself too much. The sun felt good; and the heavy, sagey air was invigorating once he got used to it, except when there was carrion close by. He'd been traveling gradually downhill, but on the fourteenth day he reached an abrupt levelling off where the ground was less dry and there were clumps of trees. He scouted one of those and found a lookout tree at the edge. Grunting with effort, he climbed it. This looked very much like the terrain of the photograph. Early the next morning he saw a band of the homed animals. He settled himself in a crotch and uncased his binoculars. The animals' fur was even thinner than he'd expected, and the beast's sinews stood out like steel cables. This was a group of about three dozen, both sexes and all ages, with a loose social organization based on strength and sagacity. They ate fruit, nuts, berries, insects, small vertebrates, and birds' eggs when they could get them. More than anything, they reminded him of large rodents, except for the horns and the strongly prehensile tails. Their legs were short, but had balland-socket joints at the. elbows as well as at the shoulders. They ran usually on all fours but could stand erect. They were extremely fast, and, in the trees, real acrobats. The horns were about three inches from front to back, roughly the same height from base to pronged edges, and an inch thick at the base. The ear-holes were below the horns, as if they used sound reflection from them. They were certainly quick, bright animals, and it was clear that they'd adapt readily to space; but they were, after all, just animals. Nothing about them indicated any intelligence capable of using instruments or even tools. So, as the Birds suspected, Gree must be upgrading them. I t was another seventeen days before he was lucky enough to find a hunt. A fleet of aircars appeared, landed, and discharged squads of humanoids who joined into a line. They moved slowly, in a direction that would take them past Steve if he stayed put. Then more aircars went over, and he could guess where they'd put down to add another segment of a wide circle. He could still get outside that circle, if he wanted to. A troop of the horned animals flashed by, and he knew the country well enough to guess where they were going. There was a hollow not far away where the trees were thicker. That, of course, was where the hunt would converge, penning in all the animals in the area. He decided suddenly he wanted to be there. He slid down from his tree and made a quick cache of the instruments he didn't dare carry, then ran, keeping under cover, to get inside the circle. A large band of animals wheeled to face him, old males to the front, but he skirted them and they didn't attack. There were other bands in sight, all retreating to the hollow. One of the big predators trotted by, its ears pressed low to its head, ignoring Steve and the horned animals. He reached the edge of the thicket, penetrated a way, and found himself a dense patch of brush to hide in. More of the quarry streaked by, many of them taking to the trees and leaping from limb to limb. In fifteen minutes he heard voices. There seemed to be a halt for final organization, then the hunt came on into the thicket. Soft popping sounds began, punctuated with angry roars and shrieks of the animals, and occasionally with the splat of a laser rifle. The hunters thrashed by in the brush on both sides of him, and emerged into the small glade at the edge of which he'd chosen to hide. T here were men and B'lant and half a dozen other slave humanoid races, with a few Overseers directing them. Every other man in the line carried an air gun shooting anesthetic darts. They chose young animals, not too high in the trees and not too close to themselves. The poison acted within seconds, and the brush was full of brief thrashings. The odd men in line carried laser rifles and used them when the animals attacked. The thicket was a bedlam now, of screaming animals and shouting men and the sound of the guns, and the thrashing about in the brush. A group of old males suddenly charged from hiding. There was a short chaos of laser beams, hurtling forms, yells and screams and roars. Other hunters closed in from both sides to help, and the attack was beaten off, but six or seven hunters lay motionless or twisted in pain. Overseers shouted to get the line reformed, spoke into their throatmikes (no doubt calling for med techs), then moved the hunt on. It vanished toward the center of the hollow. This was Steve's chance to get into the secret base! He shoved his laser pistol and some other things deep in the brush, then crawled into the open, acting dazed in case any of the wounded were watching. He picked up a dart-gun and wandered after the hunt. A wounded animal hurtled at him suddenly and he barely got the gunbutt up in time to ward it off. There was a crunch of bone and it lay still. That gave him a better idea than catching up with the hunt. When the hunt was over, the squads IF would be rounded up and counted by their Overseers -- but the wounded would probably go back separately, as they were picked up, without an immediate check. And there was always confusion in the med stations when a lot of casualties came in; and confusion was just what he wanted. He took his knife and made a small cut in the left sleeve of his uniform, below the elbow, so it would rip. Then he deliberately gashed his forearm on the horns of the dead animal. Blood welled out and he tore the sleeve off the uniform to make a crude compress. Then he went back to the glade, muttered a few words to the conscious wounded there, and sat down with his back against a tree. Before long an aircar settled to the glade, and two med techs ran around giving treatment where it was needed immediately. They loaded four of the worst cases and took off, telling Steve and the others that there'd be another car. There was, within minutes, and Steve climbed aboard. His gash burned like the devil as they swabbed it with antiseptic, and he pretended to half faint so no one would ask him any questions. IV T he base was underground. They entered by an opening whose camouflage Steve sincerely admired. They dumped him at a med station where casualties and techs were so he could slip from one line to another. He got by a preliminary questioning by giving a name and number at random and acting dazed. He got rid of his torn uniform, got some skin-patch sprayed on his cut, then went through a med booth that sniffed, prodded, and sprayed before spitting him out, theoretically disinfected and viable. He got out of that line quickly and went looking for a uniform he, could wear. There were many uniforms being discarded by casualties about to get treatment. He got his hands on a fairly fresh-looking uniform, an Apprentice Astrogator's, before it went into a laundry chute. Carrying it over an arm, he headed toward the latrine. A med tech stopped him and began to ask questions, but Steve grinned and pointed to the latrine and acted urgent, and the tech let him go. He donned the uniform inside, waited a few minutes, then left. He edged into a group who'd already been processed and were being released, and got out of the med station with them. Outside, he found a chance to slip away. Now he had to stay inconspicuous until he knew his way around. He found a recreation area where some B'lant were playing a very accurate game of quoits. He stayed there, seeing all he could, until mealtime, then joined a line, and ate with the general pool. It was apparent by now that the general pool here was made up of washouts or battle veterans in some way unfit for first-line duty. Some of them acted as if they'd had brain damage or brain surgery to remove dangerous memories. In other words, a collection of low-grade expendables to use in the hunts. That suited Steve. A few peculiarities on his own part would go unnoticed. There was the usual Overseer's section of the mess, and another where slaves other than the general pool ate. In this latter section he saw many computer techs and a lot of meds. Possibly the meds, most of them, were actually working as veterinarians. Steve couldn't hope to stay free long, just wandering around; some Overseer was sure to round him up and put him through an Inquisitor booth. He knew he didn't have the personality conditioning to fool the booths, as he had once. He must find a hiding spot; or, better but less likely, a way in and out of the base. Then he remembered they were underground. That meant a considerable ventilating system. I t took some precarious searching, but he located a storeroom with a ventilator grill big enough to crawl into and hidden enough to work at. It was a food storeroom, so the natural thing was to attach himself to a work party from the kitchens and hide out when they left the storeroom. He had a table knife he'd stolen, and a pair of pliers he'd gotten the same way. He not only had to get the grill loose, but put it back after he was in the duct. He finally accomplished that, then crawled along the duct, having a hard time where it turned vertical to ceiling level. Once there, he crawled along until he found an access hatch. He worked at its nuts and bolts until he could get out. He was in a dark place, with the feel of plenty of room around him. He listened and heard nothing but the hum of blowers and the whoosh of the drafts. As his eyes adjusted he saw a spot of luminosity over his head, and another not far away. Finally he realized this was not an attic, but a natural cave, with the roof high overhead. The spots of luminescence were airshafts to the surface, doubtless with two or more bends in them so debris wouldn't fall in. The buildings lay along the bottom of the cave like a string of boxes. The air ducts ran along the top of the buildings. But down the middle of the line of buildings was a vertical partition that seemed to go up to the cave roof. He explored along that until he found a door, latched but not locked. He opened it carefully, and there was a slight hiss as an airtight seal parted. He understood the layout, then. The cave was split into halves, longitudinally. The side with the ducts was pressure intake; on the other side, stale air found its own way out of each room, and out of the cave by a separate line of shafts. He thought that might make his spying easier. However, he found there were not simply grills in the ceiling of each room; there were light traps that had to be removed before he could see in. He managed with the table knife and pliers, but he decided on his next trip inside he'd acquire some better tools. Before he began spying, he lookIF ed around for emergency hiding places. On the other side, the branching and turning ducts offered nooks and nests. On this side there were none. But the buildings did not touch the cave wall, and between there was a dark gap, varying in width, at the bottom of which he could hear a faint trickle of water. It wasn't far down; and by experimenting he found that, at a place where the rock wall approached close, he could work his way down, pressing his back against the building. T he captured animals were easy to locate by the smell that came out of the ventilators. There were a number of pens, each holding a few animals and equipped with feeding and watering apparatus. Farther along were chutes into which the animals were driven, one by one. Each animal got a jab with a needle that produced quick anesthesia. The inert animals were strapped belly down on tables; where techs using small power tools with hole-saw blades cut circular openings, an inch and a half in diameter, on the inward side of each of the animals' horns. The horns were hollow, with moderately thin walls, leaving space inside. Into this space other techs inserted bits of miniaturized appartus, positioning them and finally forcing in some kind of cement or mastic to make a solid fit. After that the cut-out discs were replaced. They even had thin annular rings of horn or bone to make a tight fit. No doubt the horn would grow together. Steve could see no mechanical connections to the brain, and he imagined there'd be fairly thick skull under the horns. There must be electronic fields from the gadgets, then; like the much greater fields that probed one's bodily responses in an Inquisitor booth. Were the things just pain producers, to control the animals? He didn't think so. His encounter with the band in spacebags hadn't indicated remote control. And of course there was no concept in the animal's brains of the difference between a lie and the truth. Some kind of brain supplements, then; perhaps like computer memory banks, somehow communicating with the dim minds. He went further down the line, and was not surprised to find galleries jammed with artificial training aids. He could guess at what went on: simulated space targets; recognition training, including some identification of friends via secret radio signals; specific sets of circumstances to be recognized and corresponding ways to react; reward-and-punishment. No wonder the beasts were effective, with this and with their quick reflexes. He wondered what, if anything, would happen if he got a set of the gadgets, wrapped up or taped the components in their proper relationship (he could see it was simple) and held them against his own head. Of course his duty was to steal a set of the things and escape with them. But he couldn't escape with them until he got them; and once he had them, it shouldn't be too much of a risk to try them out. V H e slipped back into tbe buildings, had another meal, and spyed around some more. Then, reentering the ducts, he went fron storeroom to storeroom, acquiring a razor, a new Gunner's uniform, two laser pistols, some tools, and a few other items he might want. He had a shower and shave before he went looking for the gadgets. He found where they were stored, waited until the place was deserted, and stole a set, still boxed, from the rear of a shelf lot. He went back up to the exhaust side of the cave, squeezed his way down into the gap between cave wall and buildings, and walked along the smoothed cave floor until he had more room and didn't have to stand in mud. He risked a small light and got the instruments, a set for each side of his head, fastened in their proper relationships with gummed-rubber tape. They had their own power supplies. Gingerly at first, he held them against his head, at the right angle, just above his ears. There was nothing. He moved them closer, finally pressing them against his skull, disappointed. Then, just as he was about to give up, there was an odd kneading sensation in his head, not painful, followed bya lightning confusion of scenes, phrases, and concepts from his own memory. Some of them he hadn't thought of for years. They followed no pattern that he could discern. They stopped, and suddenly a soundless voice shouted in his There was an awful blast of sound, pressure, agony, terror. He jerked the things from his head and leaned, gasping, against the rough rock. Gradually, his wits returned. What had happened? It must have been his triumphant thought against Gree. Of course! The animals, by some concept -- some vague image of kind master and protector -- would be taught obedience and loyalty to Gree, just as humanoid slaves were. T here were obviously feedbacks in the instruments, and artificial guilt feelings, and monitor circuits. Carefully, he brought the things near his head again. He found he could only avoid the thought -- feelings, rather -- that brought on the punishment, by thinking hard of other things. He concentrated on an abstract thought, as well as he could: A planet without inclination or eccentricity has no seasons, unless its sun is a variable or there is some other outside influence. There were only vague echoes of the concepts planet and sun. He tried thinking of the word-sounds : T wenty-one times fifty-seven is... Instantly, the words eleven hundred ninety-seven popped into his mind. The thing was a computer, then, as well as a monitor. That didn't IF surprise him. What surprised him was that it was programmed to compute from English words representing numbers. He remembered the kneading sensation, and the flash of ideas, when he'd first put the things to his head. Maybe there was some sort of self-adjustment by the gadgets; some zeroing-in to fit the individual mind. Maybe they were designed for use on other animals than their particular species, in addition. As he stood there wondering, there was a whisper of thought: Attention! Sounds! A door in the partition opening; that one a hundred and sixty paces away from the spot on the partition opposite you. Two sets of footsteps. One foot of one man drags a little. There's an oddity in the echoes; there must be a vault in the cave right there that distorts it. They're moving the other way. Note the angle of their course; about twentyfive degrees , converging, on the way you're facing... Astounded, Steve listened. It was all coming from his own mind, of course. But things seemed to be amplified. His ears were as keen as a cat's; he also seemed to be sniffing the air. And the spatial sense was incredible. Just by listening -- and computing the time lag for the sound to reach him -- he could have aimed a pistol, if the building were not in the way, giving exactly the proper lead. He decided he'd better get out of his present position while they were headed the . other way. They might shine a flashlight down into the gap. Before he took the gadgets from his head, they whispered, There was that foothold, seventeen inches up from the floor; and the other one for the right foot, five inches above and two inches to the side. Don't forget that sharp point that dug into your finger... Suddenly shivering, he jerked the things away from his skull and stuffed them in his pockets. He'd climb out under his own power. T he quicker he got out of the base and off-planet, the better. He could possibly sneak into a hunting party and desert it in the brush, but he might wind up a long way from his caches, with no way to signal the Birds. It would be better to use Gree transportation. But how? He got through the partition and hurried to where his loot was hidden. He wiped the mud off his shoes and changed into the fresh uniform, which would give him some privileges and an excuse to wear a pistol. But where would he hide the braingadgets? They'd bulge too much in the pockets of the one-piece uniform. A pressure suit! Those were clear plastic, but had plenty of slack, and enough apparatus at various places to hide the gadgets. And, if he were going via spaceship (which, he thought wryly, he seemed to have decided, however overoptimistically) a suit would be natural. He hid what he wasn't taking, found the right duct and got into it, and crawled to the storeroom where the suits were issued. By now he had rope and a clamp to make the vertical part of the trip easy. At floor level, he peered out into the storeroom. There were voices and the scrape of shoes, but no one in sight. He got the grill loose, crawled out, and replaced the grill. The voices, and the sound of work, came from behind a barrier of ceilinghigh shelves. He went to the end of that row and peered around. Two humanoids were stowing suit fittings into the shelf bins. When they both faced away, he slipped past and went down the crossaisle to the front of the compartment. Down at the middle aisle, a man with Storekeeper's shoulder insignia sat at a desk, working at an adding machine. Steve drew back and went between the shelves almost to the middle aisle, a few feet behind the man. He put his head in a bin to muffle his voice, and tried to imitate the accent of the particular kind of humanoids who were working farther back. "Storekeeper!" A voice said, "What is it?" Steve called again, more urgently, "Storekeeper!" A chair squeaked and the man stepped into sight. His eyes darted toward Steve, but Steve's fist was already crashing at the man's temple. He went limp and Steve caught him and lowered him silently. He dragged him a few feet from the aisle, then stepped swiftly to the desk. He sat down and pulled open drawers until he found the kind of requisition form he wanted, and also the storekeeper's electronic signature stamp. He scribbled, stamped, and went back to where the two humanoids were at work. "Where's the storekeeper?" They looked at him dully, then one finally said, "He, uh, was at desk." Steve shrueaed. "He's not there IF now." He thrust out th requisition. "Where do I find a doubte-S Nine? I'm in a rush." The one who'd spoken hesitated, glanced at Steve's Gunner, Class Three, insignia, then turned to lead the way. Steve got the right suit and kept his eyes on the humanoid to make sure he went back to work and not toward the desk. Then he left and hurried along the corridor to the nearest latrine, where he put on the suit and stowed the brain-gadgets. VI S ince no ships landed or left via atmosphere, the base must have a null tank. The largest kind, big enough to receive a Scout, consisted of four concentric steel tanks, very large and very stout walled, with air pumps between. They were pumped out, with graduated degrees of thoroughness, until the inner one had a hard vacuum. Not that a vacuum was necessary to null out -- a ship could null out of atmosphere, or even an ocean, and only leave an implosion behind -- but incoming ships needed the vacuum, because to materialize into space where there were more than a very few atoms of matter would require impossible amounts of power. There'd almost certainly be a Scout in the tank, ready to go, as that was standard practice unless a ship was due in and the tank was being pumped out. He made inquiries and confirmed that, as he'd expected, the tank was deeper in the cave. He walked, rather than visit the ground car transportation pool. Eventually he reached a fence, with an Inquisitor Booth, beyond which was a lighted, swelling part of the cave, with the huge cylinders looming in it. There were two armed B'lant on guard. He walked up to them and said, "I'm supposed to report to somebody named Kwale." "Where are your . orders?" one B'lant asked. "I suppose he has them. I just got a verbal order, a few minutes ago." The B'lant stared at him for a second. "What was zat name?" "Kwale." The B'lant muttered into his throat-mike, then waited, listening to his earplug. Presently he frowned at Steve. "Zere is no record." Steve made a helpless gesture. "I don't know about it. I just got a call, for guard duty. I was supposed to get this suit from stock, and when I got there they had a requisition already, from this Kwale." "Wait," the B'lant said, and muttered again. He listened, then nodded. He said, "Zere was a requisition filed, for a rush order, by a Storekeeper named Kwale. But why should a Storekeeper give you orders?" "How should I know?" Steve asked. "It was something about a special shipment we were going to pick up. I supposed some Overseer had ordered me along, as a guard." The B'lant grunted. "Maybe zo. Where is zis Kwale?" "Why, I thought he'd be inside." The B'lant pondered briefly. "We change ze guard not long ago. Maybe you are right. Anyway, zrough ze booth." He reached for a button and the outer door of the booth swung open. T his was what Steve had been working for. He started into the booth, but stopped the door from closing with his foot. He perked out his pistol, thrust it around the edge of the booth, and slashed back and forth with the beam. There were two hoarse screams, and a beam sizzled on the booth inches from his hand. He heard the bodies fall. His laser pistol fused the lock on the inner door and he burst through, already running toward the small door in the looming cylinder. No one saw him coming, apparently. He went through the door. A humanoid, a mere clerk but armed, looked up from a desk. Steve walked toward him, fumbling beneath his suit as if for his orders, then suddenly struck hard at the throat with the points of his doubled knuckles. The humanoid gasped and staggered, and Steve hurled him sideways and struck lethally at the back of the neck. He swiftly scanned the controls on the desk, punched at some of them, and ran toward the lock which opened into the outer tank. By the time that one ground open, the inner I ones had too. He went through them without breaking stride, already seeing the hull of a Scout in the inner tank. He turned and slapped at the manual controls of the inner hatch, stared out impatiently until it cut off his vision. He thought he heard a shout just as it closed. He set the controls so they couldn't be overridden from outside unless they got at the wiring and made a short-circuit. He opened the hatch of the Scout and slid in, his eyes going immediately to the console. Plenty of fuel, but no charge in the null-accumulators. It would take ten minutes to build that up. He shut the hatch and punched buttons, got the field building up, then turned on outside viewers so he could watch the tank's hatch. Now there was nothing he could do but wait. There were two things his enemies could do. They could tear into the wiring -- he thought that would take a half hour or so -- or they could bring in a heavy laser and cut into the tank. But that might take more than ten minutes, too. About when he expected it, the familiar paternal voice came over the radio. "You, in the tank. What are you doing there?" He grinned and did not answer. The more time they wasted talking, the better. The voice said, "What is your name? It is Gree who asks." A little later, more sternly, "Come out! Gree commands! You will not be punished. You are sick; you will be made well." S teve let it talk on, while he punched out a program for a nullhop to a rendezous. There was a hiss from somewhere, pinching out as a gasket sealed. Steve went taut. What were they doing? A gauge gave him the answer: IF pressure outside the ship was down by a couple of pounds. They were pumping out the inner tank. Why? Suddenly, he knew. A bomb! They were pumping down so they could null a bumb into the tank with him! Somewhere, maybe only a few thousand miles out in space, a Gree ship-of-the-line hung, nullprojector locked on the co-ordinates of this tank. It would not have to be a big bomb, and they might not need a very hard vacuum. He glanced at a timer. Still six minutes to null. He looked at the gauge that showed outside pressure. He began to sweat. They'd be ahead of him by three minutes or so. He still had one resource. There was air in the Scout; not only the air in the compartments, but reserve air, compressed in tanks. The huge pumps handled a lot of air fast, but it was the final traces that took time. When they got down to a fair vacuum, he'd bleed out the Scout's air and let them struggle with that. The outside pressure crawled down to a fraction of a pound. He cracked the hatches of the other compartments so air leaked out slowly. No use making it obvious. He could feel the vibration of the escaping air. When the compartments other than his own were empty, he started releasing compressed air. The gauge needle wavered. Surely they'd guess now. He set his suit to hold ten pounds; and let his own compartment bleed down to that. He thought he could stay conscious at ten pounds, even though he was acclimated to the planet's eighteen. The vibration of escaping air encted, and now there was only the throb of the great pumps, faintly felt through the steel of the tanks and of the ship. He stared at the timer. Incredible, there were still four minutes to null. Gradually he understood that he was beaten. A sickness grew in his middle; not so much fear as an awful remorse. He'd been cocky. He'd taken a risky, hasty way. If he'd been content with sneaking out... H e felt light-headed now, from the change in pressure. The outside gauge showed less than a quarter of a pound. It seemed he could feel the pumps more distinctly now, like martial drums beating out the instants to his execution. He found himself hunching his shoulders against the bomb, and straightened angrily. He would not die just standing here! He could leave the ship and get the inner tank's lock open; get to the second tank, at least. Probably they'd be waiting there. Or they might just let him stay, sealed up, and go ahead with their bomb. Then he'd be trapped in the two inner tanks to be dealt with at leisure. He unsealed the suit to get at his laser pistol. If it came to a shootout, he hoped his light-headedness wouldn't slow his reflexes or affect his aim. He felt pretty well, but anoxia was deceptive. He was finished, of course. But he wanted very badly to take a few of them with him at the last; not just be stepped on, like a bug. As he drew the pistol his hand brushed against the brain-gadgets in his pocket. He grinned. It would be a nice irony if he could use their own invention to bolster up his reflexes and help him get one or two of them. He glanced at the timer. He didn't think the bomb was due for another half minute, or possibly two-thirds. With awkward fingers, he got the gadgets out and shoved them inside his helmet, jammed them up until they were at his temples. He was very careful not to think any hostile thoughts against Gree; he concentrated hard on selfpreservation. He sealed the suit again and reached for the hatch control. "Are you sure " the soundless voice murmured in his head, "that you've thought of every resource?" Annoyed, though he knew he was only hearing thoughts dredged from his own subconscious, he said aloud, "I've let out every bit of air except what's in this compartment and in my suit. That wouldn't last more than a few seconds!" "Are you sure?" the voice persisted. "What is air?" "A gas, of course!" he snorted angrily, and reached again for the control. "What is a gas?" "Damn it!" he snarled -- then went silent, gaping. A gas is... something in the gaseous state. H e darted a look at the timer, at the outside-pressure gauge, at another gauge. The calm that had settled over him with his acceptance of doom shattered. An awful anxiety replaced it; an actual physical ache. He leaped for the console. Would he have time? Vaporized water is a gas; and the ship's tanks held over seven hundred gallons of water. He felt the new vibration as water spewed out. He stared at the timer's second hand as if that were the thing that controlled fate. The outside viewer showed vapor curling from the floor, to be whisked away by the pumps. More water poured out and bubbled on the tank's floor, soaking up calories from the steel. The whole tank began to fog. He was laughing aloud now, not quite sanely. The pressure gauge crawled away from zero. He leaned over the computer keyboard, but before he could touch the keys the brain-gadgets were already computing: "At Terrestrial sea level , standard conditions , one volume of water yields eighteen hundred volumes of vapor..." It turned out that he had more than enough. Impudently, ignoring the Gree voice that suddenly shouted at him again, he closed the dump valves and saved two hundred gallons. Presently he nulled to safety. He removed the gadgets from his helmet and held them in his hand, hoping the Birds would let him join the testing and experimentation. He could think of some fascinating posIF IF  Short Story The kids fust loved having guests . It was wonderful of Earth to keep sending theml T he sun poured heat that shimmered and rolled across the Martian desert. It hammered and burned the man stumbling across the loose red sand. The man moved very slowly and he fell often. And each time he fell he lay face down with the sun hot on his head and the smell of ancient dust in his nostrils and he thought about not getting up again. But always the heat, and his thirst, and the fear of death drove him. He had been walking for three days, seeing nothing but sand and him. He found the glass house on the morning of the fourth day. The house looked like an inverted bowl. Forty feet in diameter, it rose to a height of twenty feet in a flawless curve. The glass had a bluish tint. The man kept on the sand and waited for the house to vanish. It didn't, and he got up and walked unsteadily towards it. The dome seemed to resist the full glare of the sun, filtering out the harshness and letting in a soft light that looked cool and inviting. The interior walls were a solid darker blue. The man staggered the last few yards and sprawled on the sand. He lay gasping in the thin air. After awhile he raised his head. T wo children were standing inside the wall watching him. A boy and a girl. The girl looked about five years old. Dark hair cut short. Cute. She wore a short dress and sandals. The boy looked about a year older. Dark curly hair like the girl. Short pants, sandals, short-sleeved shirt. Cool. A handsome little boy. The man lay still. He watched the children. They smiled at him. He climbed painfully to his knees. His body was stiff and his tongue felt like a mouthful of broken glass. The little boy spoke. "What are you doing out there?" The man smiled at the children and got slowly to his feet. His head filled with a thundering noise and blackness rolled across his eyes. He leaned his hands on the wall, feeling the smooth glass as though it was miles away while the desert tilted and rolled. His vision cleared and gradually the dizziness passed. The children watched him. "Hello," he said. His voice cracked and his head felt strange. "Who are you?" the little boy asked. "My name is Price. I crashed here. Look -- I need water! Let me in, will you?" The little girl smiled up at him, her face curious and her eyes big and friendly. "Why are you outside? Aren't you hot?" "I sure am. Listen, I need water in the worst way. Let me in." "Who are you?" the little boy asked. "I told you. My name is Price. John Price. I crashed here. Just let me in and I'll tell you all about it." "Why are you outside?" the little girl asked. "Aren't you hot?" "Yes. Of course I'm hot. Listen, if you'll just... "Who are you?" the little boy asked. "I told you. Price. John Price. Look, it's a long story." He licked his cracked lips. His tongue felt thick and swollen. "I crashed here, see? I'm from Earth. Earth, not Mars. I walked across the desert. I've got to..." "You shouldn't be outside," the little girl said. "It's too hot." "I know that. I don't..." "Who are you?" "I told you who I am," Price shouted. He broke down coughing. The shouting hurt his throat. "Listen! I've got to have water right now. Let me in and I'll..." "Do you like it outside?" "No!" Price screamed. "Christ, no!" He put his face close to the wall. "Listen! Go tell your mother! Tell her..." A woman walked into the room. Thirtyish and pretty. Her dark hair was cropped short and curled loosely against her head. She wore a short dress, light blue like the house and belted at the waist. She smiled at Price, nodding politely. "Come on, you kids," she said. "Get your breakfast." "Aw, Mom." "Come on. You can talk afterwards." She took the children's hands and smiled apologetically at Price. "Lady, listen to me. Please. I've got to..." They walked out of the room. P rice stared after them in amazement. He hit the wall. "For Christ's sake, what's the matter with IF you? Are you all deaf? Let me in!" He pushed away from the wall and started around the house. He stumbled and sprawled full length in the loose sand. He rested and then climbed painfully to his feet. He walked slowly and carefully around the house to the dining room and looked in. The woman and children were seated at a table. Eating breakfast. They drank water out of tall glasses. The center of the table held a big curved pitcher brimming with water and ice cubes. The little girl emptied her glass and refilled it. She turned and waved to Price. His legs felt like dry rubber. He leaned against the wall and stared at the glass in the little girl's hand. She raised her glass to her mouth and drank noisily. Water trickled down her chin to her neck. She wiped her mouth with a chubby hand. "Don't drink so fast," her mother said. "You'll get a tummy ache." "I don't drink too fast," the little boy said. "Do I, Mom?" "No, honey. That's fine." "She should be more polite. Eh, Mom?" "I am so polite," the little girl protested. "I am! Aren't I, Mummy?" "Yes, sweetheart. You're polite. You're both polite. Now hurry up and finish your breakfast." Price hammered the wall with the palm of his hand. It made a soft padded sound. "Hey, lady! Let me in! I need water." She picked up her glass. "I've got to have water!" She looked at the little boy and said, "Hurry up now." "Lady, please! For God's sake! I need water. I'll die!" She put her glass to her mouth and sipped at it. Price kicked the wall. He pressed against it, hitting it with both hands. "Open up!" he screamed. "I'm thirsty, I tell you. I need water!" He hammered the wall, kicking and pounding at it in fear and fury. He filled his lungs and screamed as hard as he could. She finished her drink and put her glass aside. He slumped to the sand. Tired, he thought. I'm tired, too. This isn't doing me any good. He got to his feet again and began circling the house, examining the wall, looking for a door. He walked around the house without finding an opening in the smooth glass. He hit the wall. "Hey! Let me in! I need water." Nothing. He sat on the sand. "Alright," he muttered. "You've got to look this way sometime. I'll wait here till you do." The sun was hot. He sat on the sand and looked into the house and thought of all the water he had swam in and waded through and sailed over. His eyes were hot and his body sagged. Tiny fingers of fear and urgency plucked at him, but he drove them back and closed his eyes and thought about waterfalls and lawn sprinklers and grass cut short with the dew clinging to it. kids want any more y water?" The woman's question came faintly to him. "No, Mom." The little boy had a nice clear voice. "I'll throw it out then." He jerked his head up. Ten feet away a door had opened in the glass wall. The woman stood in the opening. She held the pitcher in her hand. "Wait!" Price called. The woman poured the water onto the sand. She shook the pitcher. Price dragged himself to his knees. "Wait!" he called. The woman stepped back into the house. His thirst and his fear and the screaming of his arid body rushed at him and he scrambled to his feet. "Wait!" He stumbled for the opening in the wall. It swung shut. Price pushed on the glass. There was no sign where the door had been. He pounded the wall weakly. "Wait!" he croaked. "Let me in. Please." The woman placed the empty pitcher on the table. She sat down, her back to Price. He wheeled around, searching for where the water had landed. The snot looked dark. He dropped prone and pressed his mouth to the desert. He dug his tongue into it, feeling for moisture. Hp clawed at it. The sand was dry. He opened his mouth wide and bit into the sand and it filled his mouth and tore his cracked lips. He inhaled, clutched his throat and coughed in agony. He lay with his face on the desert and coughed up the lining of his throat. After a while he turned his head and looked into the house. The children were standing inside the wall watching him. The little girl smiled shyly. "You shouldn't eat sand," she said. "It isn't good for you." She turned to the boy and said, "It isn't good to eat sand, is it?" "Gosh, no," he said. He looked curiously at Price. "Why do you eat it?" Price looked at the children. Heat rolled over him in suffocating waves. He got to his hands and knees and crawled to the wall. "Why do you eat sand?" the little boy said. Price examined the friendly little faces. "Don't you understand?" he said. He looked at the girl. "Can't you see? I'm dying out here." "Sand isn't good for you." "Please give me water. Just a little." "You shouldn't eat sand." "Please." "Why do you eat it?" He fell against the wall. He coughed. Blood from his cracked lips and torn throat sprayed the glass. He pressed his mouth to the wall and pawed weakly at it. "Maybe he likes sand." He began to whisper. He pressed his mouth to the wall and whispered and each time he exhaled it made a rasping sound in his throat and blood smeared on the glass. "Do you like sand, Mister?" He slumped sideways to the desert. His head dropped and his eyes closed. The sand burned his cheek but he had no strength so he lay IF there and after a while his mind drifted. His body felt dry, but his mind found lakes of blue and streams that raced over big round boulders and shimmered cold and wet under the shade of green trees. He slept. H e woke to heat. Blind, inhuman heat. The sun seared him. Heat reflected from the sand like a blast furnace. He dragged his eyes open, the lids like hot lead weights. He lay still. Not moving and breathing shallowly. Dry. Dry, he thought. The absolute ultimate. The absolute, absolute ultimate of dry sticks and stones and bones and bones. His thoughts fluttered and sank and flopped in the heat. And sticks and stones and dry, dry bones. He opened his mouth and his lips split. He rolled his eyes slowly without moving his head. The woman was standing beside him on the sand. "Are you all right?" she said. He moved his mouth but no sound came out. "Are you all right?" His mouth moved jerkily. "Wath." "Pardon?" "Watha." The woman smiled kindly. "You had us worried," she said. "I'm glad you're all right." "Water." "We thought maybe you were sick or something." He pushed himself to his hands and knees. His arms shook and the desert turned over. "Water," he whispered. He crawled to the woman. "Please." "The children will be glad to see you." She turned and walked back into the house. The door closed. Price crawled to the wall. The children had a tub of water. The boy was pushing a toy sailing ship across the surface. His hands were wet. Water sloshed over the rim of the tub and ran on the floor. The little girl waved to Price. "Hi," she called. "I'm glad you're all right again. We thought you were sick." Price looked at the water. "Help    me. "We're playing boats." "Please help me." The little boy took the boat out of the water and held it up for Price to see. Water ran down his arm. The boat was bright blue. The sail was white. Price coughed. Blood flecked the wall. The little boy smiled broadly. "I've got a boat." "Please." "Mom got it for me." "Can't you hear me?" Price looked at the children. "Do you know what I'm saying?" "Of course it's only a toy." "Come here." He motioned for them to come over. The children looked at him curiously. He motioned again. They walked over and stood against the wall. Price got to his feet. It took him a long while and the exertion made his head spin. He leaned his hand on the glass and bent towards the little boy. "Can you hear me?" The little boy smiled at him. His yes were warm and he had a dimple on one cheek when he smiled. Price looked at the girl. "Can you hear me? Nod your head if you ean. The little girl smiled shyly. "You can't hear me," Price said. "You can't hear me at all, can you?" The children smiled politely. Friendly. P rice dropped to his knees. "Look," he said. He smoothed out a patch of sand. He drew a circle with his finger. "Sun," he aid. He pointed to the sun, then to Ibe circle he had drawn. "Sun," he repeated. He pointed to the sun again, then down to the circle. The children looked curious. He drew four smaller circles out from the big one. "He's drawing," the boy said. Price pointed to himself. He touched his chest with his hand, then pointed to the third small circle. "What's he drawing?" the little girl asked. Price pointed to himself again. He touched his chest and said, "Me." He pointed to the third small circle and said, "Earth." "It's a ball," the little boy said. "He's drawing a ball." Price pointed to the third circle. "Earth,"he said. "I'm from Earth." "A ball, a ball," the little girl sang. She jumped up and down and clapped her hands. "He's drawing a ball." Price ignored her. He pointed to the fourth circle. "Mars," he said. He pointed to the children. He pointed to the sand. He pointed to the house. He swung his arm, pointing to the expanse of desert, then pointed again to the fourth circle. "Mars," he said. The children watched him. He pointed again to himself, then to the third circle. He moved his finger in an arc from the third circle to the fourth one. He jabbed his finger into the fourth circle, crumpling his hand against the sand. "Crashed," he said. He made walking motions with his fingers up to the glass wall and stopped. He looked up at the children. "Draw a boat," the little boy said. Price leaned against the wall. The sun was directly overhead now, pouring heat like a giant blowtorch. His thoughts drained away. The sun covered him and devoured him while the desert shimmered and blackness rolled in with sleep and surrender. He wrenched his mind back. He got up again, swaying weakly on his feet. "Look," he said. He held his hand out in front of him, his fingers bent as though holding a glass. He made turning motions above it with his other hand. He raised his hand to his mouth and pretended to drink. His split lips bled slightly. The blood caked on his mouth and when he swallowed it felt like his throat was being cut. The children stared blankly. H e repeated the process. "Water," he said. The little girl tilted her head to one side and surveyed him carefully i # IF Price pointed to the tub of water. He drew an imaginary pitcher in the air and pretended to pour from it. He drew a glass and pretended to hold it. He pointed again to the tub of water. The little girl's eyes widened. She beamed. She walked over to the table and picked up a glass half full of water. Price pulled his mouth into a smile. He pointed to himself. The little girl nodded triumphantly. She walked back to the wall, holding out the glass like a banner and smiling broadly. Price opened his black lips and pointed down his throat. The little girl drank the water. Price stared incredulously at her. He looked at the empty glass in her hand. "No," he said. "For me." He fell to his knees and pressed his face to the hot glass wall. "Please," he croaked. "Please." The woman walked into the room. She smiled at Price. "Come on, you kids," she said. "Clean up your room. You can talk later." "We're talking to our friend, Mummy." "I know, honey. You can talk to him later. Clean up your room now." She turned to Price and smiled politely. "Those two would talk all day if you let them." Price pawed at the wall. He was smearing more blood on the glass. "Please," he whispered. "But it's nice of you to visit." He coughed violently. A long heaving cough that came from deep inside and blew clotted blood against the back of his teeth. "You seem to have made a big hit with them." He fell over sideways. Sand stuck to his mouth like red cement. "I better get some work done myself." It was hard to think because his brain was dry and his body felt far away and when he closed hi eyes he couldn't feel the sand. "I'm complaining aboit the kids," she laughed, "and here I am gabbing myself." He seemed to be sliding down a long dry tunnel. The sides of the tunnel were made of stucco and they scraped and tore his skin. He looked back up the tunnel and a great black cloud was rushing after him. He went faster and faster and the stucco side tore big pieces of meat out of him that burned but didn't bleed because he was too dry and he was turning over slowly and his face was scraping the tunnel and his mouth wouldn't close because his tongue was too big and no matter how fast he went the black cloud went faster and it was all dry too. "We'll see you later." Blackness covered him. T hey watched him for a long while. Finally the woman spoke. "I think he's dead." "No," the boy said. "I think so." "He can't be." "Stay here. I'll go see." "He isn't dead." "I'll go look." The woman walked out of the house and the children followed her to the doorway. She walked over to Price. She hooked a foot under him and rolled him on to his back. His head flopped loosely. His tongue protruded and his eyes were vacant. She bent down and looked closely at him. "He's dead." Her voice was different and she wasn't pretty. "Are you sure?" "Yes."". Th; little one walked towards Price. His eyes were funny and he didn't look like a little boy any more. His arms were changing, and he didn'r have fingers. His skin was becoming slate blue. "That was too quick," he snapped.  ' "I know." As the house disappeared, the little one walked over to Price's body and kicked him on the head. He muttered something obscene and kicked him again and again. He rained kicks on Price's head and on his open mouth and his open sightless eyes. He kicked him in cold deliberate fury and Price's head bounced and made soggy noises. The big one pulled him back gently. "He can't feel it anymore," she said, and looked up. The landscape was flickering back to something closer to its realty. There was something like a tree, and something like a hill. The home was gone. "But what'll we do now?" the little Martian screamed There's nothing more to play with." The big Martian stroked his head and said, "Be patient." She looked up at the sky and smiled softly. "Look," she said, as a distant line of fire streamed down the strange, pale sky. "There's another coming IF IF  Novelette by Thomas M. Disch # ie aliens didn't enslave men... or hurt them... or destroy them. They were very fond of Earthmen -- as petsl M y name is White Fang, though of course that is not really my name. At least not any more. Now my name is Dennis White. I like the old name better, but I suppose that comes of having been a pet. Some people would say tha once you've been a pet, once you've grown used to a Leash, you're never quite human again. I don't know about that. Of course, it is more fun. But one can learn not to want it so badly. I did. And this is the story of how I did it. As a puppy. #V-. Ah, how is one to speak of the old times without slipping into the old way of speaking? But am I then to speak like a Dingo? No! The memoirs of a member of Louis in the rough accents of a sans-culotte -- and  must be allowed to write of White Fang as White Fang would have written of himself. For the time being let me leave Dennis White in abeyance -- and let me say, without more preamble, that as a puppy I was uncommonly happy. How should it have been otherwise? I was raised in the best kennels of the solar system. My young body was sportive -- and so it sported. My education ranged freely through the humanities, and yet I was never forced beyond my inclinations. I enjoyed the company of my own kind as well as the inestimable pleasures of the Leash. Finally, I was conscious of possessing the highest pedigree. My father was a major artist -- perhaps the major artist -- in a society that valued art above all other things. No little bit of his glory rubbed off on me. Later, in adolescence, a father's fame may cramp the growing ego, but then it was enough to know that I was as valuable a pet as there could be. In what else does happiness consist than in this -- a sense of one's own value? Not in freedom, surely. If I had been free in my youth, I would almost certainly not have been so happy. In fact there was a time when I might have been said to be free (I thought of it then as neglect ), and I resented my condition bitterly. It happened shortly after I had been orphaned -- that is to say, after the Dingoes had made away with my father. I was seven then. But let me set about this in a more chronological fashion: Let me make a narrative of this. I suppose I should begin with my parents, Tennyson White and Clea Melbourne Clift. Clea, who would never let us call her Mother, did not marry Daddy, in the usual sense of the word. Like so many women of her generation, the first to grow up under the Mastery, Clea was something of a blue stocking and very jealous of her independence. For Clea to marry and take on the name of White would have been in contradiction to the first article of her faith: that the sexes must be equal in all things. Neither I nor my older brother Pluto knew how to behave around Clea. She didn't want us to think of her as a mother, but more as a sort of friend of the family. When Daddy disappeared, Clea went off somewhere -- outside the solar system -- and we never heard from her again. She had taken up with Daddy because of his literary reputation. A lot of women did, but she was his favorite, for the simple reason that she was what a Dingo would call a "knock-out." Daddy, on the other hand, was sort of thin and pale and poetical. He wore his hair almost as long as hers. I never knew either of them really well. I think I've already mentioned IF that Daddy disappeared when I was seven years old. We were on Earth, Daddy, Pluto, and I, living in the open country near one of the Dingoes' towns. Daddy was researching another book, a sequel to A Dog's Life , and he'd go off on long walks without a Leash. Sometimes he would be loose for weeks at a time if his work demanded it. He had to understand what it was to be merely human. So, when the Dingoes got hold of him, the Masters couldn't do anything. They'd lost touch. No body was ever found, but one could assume that the Dingoes had been thorough in disposing of the remains, for the Masters could have resurrected a body from hamburger almost. Pluto and I were placed in a kennel located on the North Shore of Lake Superior, the Shroeder Kennel, and there we remained for the next three years, and there we were neglected. In a purely physical sense, we were well cared for. I'll grant that. The Shroeder Kennel (named for a little town that had once occupied that site) had an excellent gymnasium, warm and cold pools, indoor tennis and golf courts, good robotic instructors for all sports, and the kennel rations were prepared with that exquisite simplicity that only the most refined taste can command. Our rooms, both public and private, were spacious, airy, and bright. Naturalness was everywhere, the style of the thing, and it was no less natural for being adjusted to our convenience. Thus, in the summer the air was filtered and cooled, and in the winter the dome that encompassed the kennel heated us and added extra hours of sunlight to the brief northern days. The dome delimiting the kennels was a mile in diameter, and within its bounds our comforts were secure against the enmity of the Dingoes. It would have been an ideal existence if only our Master had truly cared for us. Not that he should have cared. Why should people care for dogs or cats or parakeets? But they do, and the dogs and cats and parakeets have come to expect it. They like to be talked to, fondled, taken for walks, and, in general, treated as equals, though it must be evident, even to their limited sensibilities, that they aren't equal; men are immeasurably their superiors, possessing inexplicable powers and engaging in unaccountable pursuits. The analogy (which I have borrowed from Daddy's novel, A Dog's Life) to the relation between Masters and men can be extended almost indefinitely. Mankind cannot presume to understand or equal the Masters. Their nature is so alien to ours that, unassisted, we cannot even perceive them. As nearly as we can know, the Masters are pure electromagnetic phenomena -- formed of a "substance" that is neither matter nor energy but rather a potentiality for either. Their power approaches cosmic proportions, and their knowledge approaches omniscience. Beside them mankind is insignificant and laughable. Considered simply as a field of force, they are, corporately, of a scope and dimension equal at least to the magnetic field of the Earth. In the strictest sense of the word, the Masters are unaccountable. One could only accept them, reverence them, and hope for the best. T he best that one could hope for was the Leash. The Leash, however, is -- it was -- rather hard to describe: the tides of knowledge that sweep through the mind, the total certainty that it affords, the ecstasy. Naturally, it didn't always reach those proportions. Often it was only a diffuse sense of wellbeing. But it could be the Beatific Vision. It was not as some say, a telepathic link with the Masters. (Although they could speak to us only when we were Leashed, and their speech was a direct communication from their mind to ours.) It was simply their touch , a touch that could transmute our nervous system from base lead to gleaming gold -- or scramble a brain into idiocy -- with, literally, the speed of lightning. Desirable as the Leash was, one could not coerce it. Like the state of grace, it came as a gift or not at all. And at the Schroeder Kennel it came not at all -- or so rarely as to make its general absence only more poignant. Our Master simply did not care; he was not interested enough in his pets to spend his time with them, and so we were left to our own devices. It was a terrible way to grow up. And so we come to Roxanna Proust. I don't think Proust was really her last name, any more than my name was White Fang. She had taken the name, because Proust was her idol. She was only eighteen at the time that we entered the Shroeder Kennel, and already the Remembrance of Things Past was her passion and pasttime. Roxanna was, faute de mieux, our teacher. She taught us French, reading to us from her favorite author, and she taught us German by reading a German translation of Proust. It was a rather eclectic education, but there was no one else with a fraction of Roxanna's talent, special as it was. Most of the pets there were only interested in athletics and flirtation. For my own part, I'll confess that I spent much more time in the gymnasium than I did at my studies. Without the intellectual stimulation and aid of the Leash, literature has not been my natural inclination. Pluto was different. Pluto loved to read, and, under Roxanna's guidance, he began to write. Not surprisingly, his style was very derivative of Proust's. Later, it was derivative of Joyce, and at last, when he became famous, it was entirely original. Or so I am told. I've never been able to understand him unless I was Leashed, and then, of course, I can understand anything. In fact, if I were to be candid, I would have to admit that my brother and I have always been rather distant. That at least prevented us from being hostile. I understand that Pluto, like our mother, has left the solar system. He is no longer on Earth, in any IF case, and I can't say that I've missed him that much. U I have always considered that my life began at the age of ten. Before that age, I remember few events in any detail. From ten on, I think I could reconstruct the happening of each new day if I had to. The day it would give me most pleasure to reconstruct was the #th of October, # -- a Wednesday. On that day in good weather Roxanna would take Pluto and me out into the country, beyond the dome of the kennel. After a half-hour drive along dirt roads, we would arrive at a deserted farm, where, in the shade of overburdened apple trees, we would pursue our studies, or, if Roxanna felt indulgent toward us, we would explore the old farm buildings. We never went into the house itself, though. The aura of Dingoes still clung to it. Only years later did Roxanna reveal to me that this was her parents' farm, abandoned during the Great Collapse of #, when the economy of those humans who were still holding out against the Mastery fell completely into ruin. The Nelsons (for that was the name on the mailbox -- not Proust) had volunteered . themselves and their children for the Shroeder Kennel. The children had been accepted, but the parents had been turned away, as by that time most older volunteers were. The Masters had no more need of wild pets, for now they bred their own. It was principally from rejects like the Nelsons that the society of Dingoes, as we know it today, evolved, and Roxanna herself was not free from the taint (or so I regarded it then) of their wildness. How else was one to interpret these willful visits to the scene of her childhood -- visits in which she involved Pluto and me with such blithe disregard for our safety or moral well-being. The countryside was swarming with Dingoes even then (had not I lost my father to them?), and we three pets could have been abused or abducted without fear of reprisals. That our Master should have allowed us to venture so far, Unleashed and running wild, is indicative of the state of affairs at Shroeder Kennel. It was late in the afternoon, and Roxanna, tired of reading, was lazily reminiscing to Pluto about her country childhood and how different the world had been then. I was above them in the branches of the apple tree, working problems in long division. Suddenly there appeared, suspended in mid-air almost near enough for me to touch, a girl of about my own age. Wisps of heliotrope spiralled about her, and her hair gleamed in the dying sunlight as though it were itself luminescent. "Hello," she said. "My name is Julie. Don't you want to play?" I could not reply. I was stunned as much by her loveliness (Yes, I was only ten, but children are not insensible of these things -- perhaps not so much as we are.) as by the shock of meeting a stranger in those unlikely circumstances. IF She took a step toward me, smiling (Julie has always had the loveliest, cheek-dimpling smile), and I realized what would have been immediately evident to any other pet: that it was her Master's unseen presence that supported her. For him, anti-gravity would be a moment's improvisation. But our Master's neglect had made even such commonplaces as flights seem rare to us. "Aren't you Leashed?" she asked, when she saw that I was not about to leave my branch and meet her halfway. "No, none of us are." B y this time Roxanna and Pluto had become aware of our visitor, but since they were a good ten feet below Julie and me, it was awkward for them to join the conversation. It was awkward for me, for that matter, but I blustered on. "Would you like an apple?" I asked, picking one from the abundance about me and offering it to her. She stretched forth her hand, then, with a guilty look, drew it back. "My Master thinks I'd best not," she explained. "He says that sort of food is for Dingoes. You're not a Dingo, are you?" "Oh no!" I blushed, though I knew she was only trying to make a joke. There could be no serious doubt of our domestication, for Dingoes wear clothing, while pets (who have better bodies, usually) only dress for formal occasions: the theatre or a pageant. "Would you like to slip in with me?" She held out her hand, and eagerly I jumped off the branch and was buoyed up in the gravity belt supporting Julie. I felt the meshes of a Leash close over my mind, and Julie, giggling with delight, leaped into the accommodating air to a height of thirty feet, and hung there, secure as a ping-pong ball suspended by a jet of air. "Try and catch me!" she shouted and then dashed behind the sagging roof of the old barn. "What about me?" Pluto protested. "You're probably too old, but I'll ask her," I promised and disappeared from sight. She led me quite a chase, but it was such a pleasure to be able to fly again that I kept up with her effortlessly. The Leash that I shared with Julie was loose -- that is, it was not so intense that one wished to do no more than contemplate the mysteries of life and Leash. One simply felt euphoric, zesty, and raring to go. Once I had caught her, I made her explain what she was doing out here at the Nelson farm. It was not, after all, a crossroads. Julie explained that her Master had brought her to Earth to help choose new stock for his kennel in the asteroid belt. My eyes kindled with the hope that she might choose me. The kennels outside of the Earth, especially those beyond Mars, were known to be superior to Earthside kennels, and I longed to have a Master who would care for me. Julie seemed to understand this, for she didn't keep me in suspense. "You will come back with us, won't you?" she asked, and her Master's voice resonated in my mind, echoing her plea: Won't you? Her Master? No -- now he was mine! "Why did you come out here?" I asked. "Surely, you don't have time to look at all the pets on Earth." "Because of who you are." "Who are we?" I was sincerely puzzled. "Only the sons of the most famous novelist in the last fifty years. That's all. It's incredible that every kennel in the solar system isn't trying to snap you up." It was easy at Shroeder Kennels, where Roxanna was the only pet with a literary bent, and that so singularly directed, for Pluto and I to forget the extent of our father's fame. A Dog's Life had been, after all, an epoch-making book -- like Luther's Bible or Das Kapital. Even the Masters had read and admired it. Daddy had won the Nobel Prize, entered the French Academy, and been elected to the American Senate. More than any other person, he had affected the reconciliation of men and the Masters, and it was for that reason that the Dingoes had marked him for vengeance. It was his book, in fact, that had given the Dingoes their name. The wonder of that novel is that it's told entirely from a dog's point of view -- a real dog. Before A Dog's Life , the Dingoes had used words like "kennel," "Leash," and even "pet" as invective. After Daddy's book, the tables were turned: Daddy's terminology stuck. Everyone -- that is to say, all the pets -- began to name their children after famous dogs. There hasn't been a generation of puppies with stranger r names since the Pilgrim Fathers went off the deep end back in the Seventeenth Century. Which brings us back to Julie and me. "I've told you my name," she said. "But you haven't told me yours. "White Fang," I said, proudly. "White Fang," she repeated, cuddling up to me. "I don't see you as 'White Fang' at all. I'm going to call you Cuddles." I should have objected then and there, but I was anxious lest I offend Julie and lose my ticket to the asteroids. And so it was that for the next ten years of my life I was known as Cuddles to all my friends. Within hours of our return to the kennel, Julie's Master had negotiated the transfer of myself and Pluto from the Shroeder Kennel to outer space. Roxanna was very curt in her farewells. It was only natural that she should be disappointed at being left behind, but there was nothing to be done. Her pedigree was unexceptional, and her literary attainments, though they shone in the intellectual night of the Shroeder Kennel, were not really of the first magnitude when yotr looked at them from a greater distance. The trip to the asteroids was made that night as we slept. What means our Master employed to transport us, I could not say. Nothing so crude as a spaceship. The Master's technology is a spur-of-the-moment thing, and I will admit, for my own part, that mechanical engineering isn't really that interesting to me. IF We woke to the subdued luminescence of kennel walls that we had known for years. The walls shifted to livelier color schemes in response to the quickening neural patterns of our waking minds. It was just like home. But there was a difference: instead of the relentless drag of Earth-gravity there was a gentle gravitational pulse, a relaxed ebb and flow that seemed to issue from my own heart. I felt the Leash of my new Master close tighter over my mind (for the next ten years it would never entirely desert me, even in sleep), and I smiled and whispered my thanks to him for having brought me away. Julie was awake now, also, and with a wave of her arm and a flourish of synthetic horn-music, the walls of the kennel dissolved and I beheld the boundless, glowing landscape of the asteroids. I gasped. It is yours , said a voice in my head that would soon come to seem as familar as my own. Hand in hand, Julie and I sailed out over this phantasmagorical playground, and the spheres of heaven played their music for us. Exotic blossoms fexploded, like Roman candles, discharging their hoards of rich perfume. Colors wreathed us in abstract, joyous patterns, as the two of us bounded and tumbled through the shifting fields of gravity, like starlings caught in a dynamo. Can it be that I shall never again enjoy the easy pleasures of that time? When I remember the way I passed through those ten beautiful years, I wonder if I am truly free or if I may not be, instead, exiled. Nothing, nothing on Earth can compare with the infinite resources of the Masters' pleasure domes. It was paradise. Really, it was almost paradise. Illness and pain were banished from our lives, and it might have been (for I know of no instance to disprove it) that, so long as we stayed Leashed, death too had lost its sting. Women no longer brought forth children in sorrow, nor did men eat their bread in the sweat of their brows. Our happiness did not degenerate into boredom, and our pleasures were never dampened by an aftertaste of guilt. Paradise has a considerable flaw, however, from the narrative point of view. It is anti-dramatic. Perfection doesn't make a good yarn, unless one attempts (as I am given to understand my brother Pluto has attempted, in his more abstruse works) to emulate Dante. So there isn't much for me to tell you, except:  liked it, I liked it; for ten years that was the story of my life. in I n the summer of #, ten years after our departure, the three of us -- Julie, myself, and our Master -- were back again on Earth. Julie, in one of her sentimental moods, had wanted to stop by first at the Nelson farm, where we had met. Our Master, as usual, indulged her whim. We sat, in the lightest of Leashes, beneath our apple tree and marveiled at the changes time had wrought not only in ourselves (for we had, after all, passed from puppyhood to maturity in the meantime) but also in the scene about us. The roof of the barn had fallen in, and in the orchard and surrounding meadows, saplings had taken root and were flourishing. Julie gloried in the Gothic Revival. So great was her passion for returning to the past that she begged our Master to be Unleashed! "Please," she whined. "Just this once. I feel so anachronistic out here in a Leash," Our Master pretended not to hear. "Pretty please," she whined more loudly, though it was much more like a bark by now. A voice in my head (and in Julie's too, of course) soothed: There , now , gently. What's this , my darlings, my dears , my very own pets? Why should you wish to throw off your Leashes? Why -- you're hardly Leashed at all! Do you want to turn into Dingoes? "Yes!" Julie replied. "Just for this afternoon I want to be a Dingo." I was shocked. Yet I must admit that at the same time I was a little excited. It had been so long since I had been without a Leash, that so primitive an idea appealed to me. I felt a yen for novelty. Or, as the Dingoes would say, freedom is a natural instinct of man. If l Unleash you, there's no way for you to call me back. You'll just have to wait till I come back for you. "That's all right," Julie assured him. "We won't leave the farm." I'll return in the morning, little ones. Wait for me. "Oh we will, we will," Julie and I promised antiphonally. And then he was gone, and our minds stood naked in an alien world. A more vivid pink flushed Julie's cheek, and her eyes sparkled with I realized that this was probably the first time in her life as a pet -- in her whole life, that is -- that she has been entirely Unleashed. She was probably feeling 'tipsy. I was. "Hello, Earthling," she said. Her voice seemed different, sharper and quicker. She plucked an apple from the branches overhead and polished it on her velvety skin. "You shouldn't eat that, you know," I said. "I know." She bit into it, then, with a little giggle, offered the rest of the apple to me. It was rather an obvious literary reference, but I could see no reason to refuse the apple. I took a large bite out of it. When I saw the other half of the worm that remained in the apple, I began to retch, bringing our little morality play to an abrupt conclusion. It was Julie who found the pump and got it working. The well water had a distinctly rusty flavor, but it was at least preferable to the taste in my mouth. Then, with my head in Julie's lap and her fingers tousling my hair, I went to sleep, though it was the middle of the day. W hen I woke, the heat of the afternoon sun was touching me at every pore and I was damp IF with sweat. The wind made an irregular sound in the trees around us, and from the branches overhead, a crow cried hoarsely and took to the air. I watched its clumsy trajectory with an amusement somehow tinged with uneasiness. This is what it was like to be mortal. "We're getting sunburnt," Julie observed placidly. "I think we should go into the house." "That would be trespassing," I pointed out. "So much the better," said Julie, for whom the romance of being a Dingo for a day had not yet worn off. In the farmhouse, dusty strands of adhesive -- cobwebs -- hung from the ceiling, and the creaking floor was littered with paper that time had peeled from the walls. In the upstairs rooms, Julie found closets and drawers of mildewed clothing, including some cotton dresses that would have been the right size for a ten year old. It was hard to think of Roxanna ever being that small. I felt vaguely guilty to have opened up this window on the past, and, when one of the dresses, rotten with age, came apart in my hands, a little spooky too. I took Julie into another of the upstairs rooms, which contained a broad cushioned apparatus, raised about a yard off the floor. The cushion smelled awfully. "It's a bed!" Julie said. "I've read about beds." "So have I," I replied. "In Shakespeare. But these beds smell." "They must decay, like the clothing" I sat down on the edge of the bed, and it bounced with a creaking, metallic sound, like the sound of the pump outside. Julie laughed and jumped onto the bed beside me. It groaned, and the groan deepened to a rasp, and the rasp snapped. Julie went right on laughing as the bed collapsed to the floor. Looking at her sprawled out beside me on that quaint apparatus, I became aware of a feeling that I had never experienced before. For, though I had often made love to Julie, I had never felt quite this urgent about it. Undoubtedly, this was a result of being Unleashed. "Julie," I said, "I'm going to bite you." "Grr," she growled playfully. "Arf," I replied. W e spent the night in the farmhouse amid creakings and groanings of old wood and ominous scurryings in the walls. We were up with the sun and we went, shivering, directly out of doors to wait beneath the apple tree. We were cold and we were hungry, and swarms of hostile, buzzing insects rose from the dew-drenched grass to settle on our raw skins and feed on our blood. I killed three or four, but the senseless things continued to attack us, quite oblivious to their danger. I began to understand why humans had always worn clothes before the advent of the Masters. The sun had risen nearly to noonday, when Julie finally turned to me and asked: "What do you suppose is wrong, Cuddles?" It was useless by now to pretend that nothing was wrong, but I could only answer her question with a look of dismay. Perhaps we were being punished for asking to be Unleashed. Perhaps -- But how could we presume to interpret the Masters actions, especially such irresponsible, inconceivable, and thoughtless actions as leaving two pedigreed pets defenseless in an alien world among dingoes! When our hunger grew extreme, we gorged on apples, cherries, and sour plums, not even bothering to look for wormholes. Through that afternoon and into the night, we waited, but at last the chill and darkness of the night forced us into the house. The next morning was spent in more useless waiting, though this time we had the prudence to wear clothing -- pants and jackets of rough blue cloth and rubberized boots. Almost everything else had rotted beyond repair. Our Master did not return. "Julie," I said at last, "we're on our own. Our Master has abandoned us." She began to cry, not making much noise about it, but the tears rolled down her cheeks in a steady stream faster than I could kiss them away. But for all that, I must confess that Julie adapted to our new condition more readily than I. She enjoyed the challenges of that archaic and almost Dingo-like existence. Every day while I went to a high hill in the vicinity to call, hopelessly and to no effect, to our Master, to any Master, Julie busied herself about the old house, clearing the IF floors, dusting, washing, airing out the musty furniture and decaying mattresses, and experimenting with the interesting new vegetables that grew among the weeds of a forgotten garden. My visits to the hillside became less frequent after the first week. I was convinced that our Master would never return to us. The thought of his cruelty and indifference passed quite beyond belief. Helping Julie at odd jobs around the farm, I began to have a certain respect for the pre-Mastery technology of Earth. I discovered and repaired one mechanical device that was especially useful: a rough stone wheel three feet in diameter and three inches thick that was set into rotary motion by a foot pedal. By holding a piece of metal to the revolving wheel, the machine could be made to give off sparks, and these in turn ignited dry scraps of wood. The fire thus produced could be conserved in various engines in the farmhouse. Fire had an immense utility, but since I assume my readers are familiar with it, I will not make my digression any longer. I only mention in passing that on the night of my discovery, Julie, sitting by me in front of a roaring log fire, looked at me with real admirationl A look that I returned -- for she was very lovely in the firelight, lovelier than she had even been before, it seemed. The firelight softened the contours of her face, until I was aware only of her relaxed, easy smile and the brightness of her eyes, a brightness that did not the fire but seemed to issue from her very being. "Prometheus," she whispered. "My own Pandora," I returned, and a scrap of old verse popped into my mind, at once comforting and terrible in its implications. I recited it to Julie in a low voice: Your courteous lights in vain you waste , Since Juliana here is come; For she my mind has so displaced , That l shall never find my home. Julie shivered theatrically. "Cuddles," she said, "we've got to find our way home." "Don't call me Cuddles," I said in, for me, a rough manner. "If you won't call me White Fang, stick to Prometheus." IV D ay followed day with no sign of our Master's return. The longer we stayed at the farm, the more inevitable discovery became. On my trips to the hillside I had sometimes noticed clouds of dust rising from the country roads, and though I was careful to keep under cover, I knew that luck alone and merely luck had prevented our capture so far. My imagination recoiled from what would become of us if we were to fall into the hands of Dingoes. I remembered my father, and it was not a memory to inspire confidence. Therefore I determined that Julie and I must find our way to the Schroeder Kennel on foot, where, though we might not be so happy as we had been in the asteroids, we would at least be secure. But I had bo idea of how to get there. Years ago when Roxanna had driven us to the farmhouse, she had taken a circuitous route, in a vaguely southwestern direction, which I had never troubled to learn. In any case, it was BOt wise to walk along the roads. I renewed my treks through the nearby woods, searching for a signpost, something to guide us back to civilization. At last a sign was given to me: a hill rose on the other side f a marsh, on the crest of that hill was an electric powerline! Where there was electricity there would be Masters. In # when the Masters had first manifested themselves to mankind, they had insisted that they be given complete authority over all electric plants, dams, dynamos, and radio stations. Without in any way interfering with their utility from a human standpoint (indeed, they effected major improvements). The Masters transformed this pre-existent network into a sort of electromagnetic pleasure spa. In time, of course, their additions and refinements exceeded mere human need or comprehension. Human labor could manufacture devices according to the Masters' specifications that human understanding would never be able to fathom. But even human labor became obsolete as the Masters -- in themselves, a virtually unlimited power supply -- atayed on and took things over. freeing man from the drudgery of the commonplace that has been his perennial complaint. Freeing, to be more exact, everyone who agreed to become a pet. Although in many respects, the Masters' innovations had superceded the primitive technology of the #'s, they still maintained, largely for the benefit of the Dingoes, a modified system of electric powerlines, lacing the entire world in arcane geometrical patterns that only the Masters could understand. It was to the power lines that the Masters came to bathe and exercise, and so it was to the power lines that Julie and I must go. Even if there was no way to reach the Masters as they flocked back and forth in the wires overhead, we could follow the lines to some generator or powerhouse, perhaps the one that adjoined the Schroeder Kennel, perhaps one elsewhere, for kennels were invariably located near power stations. And, once we reached the powerline, it would be a safe journey. No Dingo would dare trespass into the very heart of the Masters' domain. We prepared for the trip in minutes. While Julie improvised knapsacks, I went to the toolshed. There was an antique weapon there, a rusty wedge of iron mounted on a long wooden handle. I tested it out on the floor of the shed and with a little practice T could swing it with lethal force and fair accuracy. If it splintered Dingoes half so well as it smashed pine boards, it would serve my purpose admirably. Grimly, I refined upon its murderous properIF ties. I had noticed that the sparkproducing machine would put a fine edge on metal that was held against it at the proper angle. After patient experimentation, I had so sharpened the iron blade that the merest touch would sliver flesh. Now, I thought, let the Dingoes come! We set off before noon, neither of us in the best of spirits: Julie was wistful and melancholic at leaving the farm (though she agreed we had no other choice), and I was nervous and apprehensive. From the hill from which I had espied the powerline, we struck out into a wood of scrub pine, birch, and balsam. In the woods, there was no way to estimate our progress. The sun can be used as a compass, but it makes a poor speedometer. We walked, and when it seemed that we had walked twice, three times the distance to the power line, we kept on walking. Julie became petulant; I became angry. Then she grew angry and I sulked. But always while we were walking. The brush caught at our pant legs, and the mosquitos nipped at our necks. The mud at the edge of marsh about which we were forced to detour sucked at our boots. And we walked. T he sun, striated by long, low, wispy clouds hung huge and crimson at the horizon behind us; before us a pale sliver of moon peeped over the crest of a hill -- and on the hill, black against the indigo of the sky, stood the powerline. Julie dropped her pack and ran up the hill. "Masters," she cried, "Masters, we've come. Leash us. Make us yours again. Bring us home." The powerline stood stark and immobile, wires swaying gently in the breeze. Julie embraced the wooden pole and screamed at the unhearing wires: "Master, your pets have come back to you. Why did you leave us But we've come back. We forgive you. We love you. "They don't hear you," I said softly. Julie stood up, squaring her shoulders bravely, and joined me where I had remained at the foot of the hill. There were no tears in her eyes. But her lips were pressed together in a mirthless, unbecoming smile. "I hate them," she pronounced in a clear voice. "With my whole being, I hate them!" Then she fell into my arms in a dead faint. As twilight deepened to night, I stood guard over Julie and watched with amazement and renewed hope the great shafts of light that streamed from the northern horizon. They glowed whitely in the black sky, dimming the stars as they shot out, dissolved, and re-formed. The Northern Lights. Aurora Borealis. It was there especially that the Masters loved to play and relax. They felt at home among the electrons of the Van Allen Belt and where it curved in to touch the Earth's atmosphere at the magnetic poles, they followed it, controlling the ionization of the air, structuring those pillars of light that men have always wondered at to conform to the elaborate rules of their supravisual geometry. These shifting patterns were the supreme delight of the Masters, and it was precisely because of the strength of Earth's Van Allen Belt that they had originally been drawn to this planet. They had only bothered to concern themselves with mankind after a number of nuclear explosions had been set off in the Van Allen Belt in the #'s. The aurora that night was incredibly beautiful, and so I knew that the Masters were still on Earth, living and flaming for their pets -- their poor, lost, maltreated pets -- to see. It was a cold flame, and very remote. "Your courteous lights in vain you waste," I muttered. Julie, who has always been a light sleeper, stirred. "I'm sorry," she mumbled, probably too sleepy still to remember what she was supposed to be sorry about. "It's all right. We can find them tomorrow," I said, "and tomorrow and tomorrow." Julie smiled and slid by imperceptible degrees back into sleep. farmhouses set back from the road and, twice, the road widened and the ruins of houses were set closer together: a town. Here the poles would branch off in all directions, but the main powerline followed its single course toward Schroeder. The poles were of rough pine, stained to a reddish-brown by creosote, one just like another, until -- Julie noticed it as we neared Schroeder. Running up and down the poles were thin silvery lines that glinted metalically in the sunlight. On closer inspection, the lines formed vertical chains of decorative elements in simple repeating patterns. One common design of overlapping circles linked in series by straight lines, so: Another was a simple zigzag pattern: -- vVV -- The most frequent designed resembled a circuiting diagram of dry cells in series: T he next day we followed the lines to the north. They ran along an old asphalt road, scarred with fissures and upheavals, but still easier to travel than the rank brush on either side. A faded I sign gave the distance to Schroeder as # miles. Using the road (for the wires overhead were sufficient protection, as we thought, against the Dingoes), we could hope to reach the kennel by midafternoon. Regularly we passed deserted -- I I -- I In fact, they were all circuiting diagrams! It was too crude decoratively and such nonsense from any other point of view that I knew it could not be the work of the Masters. No, there was something barbaric about these markings that suggested Dingoes. But what Dingo would dare approach this near the sanctuary of IF the Masters? The Kennel must be only a few hundred yards off. I began to have misgivings about our security. Before I could properly begin to savor this danger, another had presented itself. "Cuddles!" Julie screamed. "My God, the power station!" I was already at her side. A cyclone fence that ran some hundred fc; t along the road prevented our entrance to the substation, but it made no difference, for it was nothing but a rubble heap now. I-beams, gnarled and twisted like the limbs of denuded oaks, stood in black silhouette against the light blue of the afternoon sky. The pylons that had fed the high tension wires into the substation lay on the ground like metal Goliaths, quite dead. The wires that had led out from the station had been snapped and hung inert from the top of the cyclone fence, where now and again a breeze would stir them. "It's been bombed," I said, "and that's impossible." "Dingoes?" "Yes, I suppose so. But how could they?" It made no sense. So primitive an attack s this couldn't succeed against the Masters when the whole rich arsenal of #th Century science had failed. Oh, the nuclear blasts in the Van Allen Belt had annoyed them. But I doubted then and I doubt now whether man has it in his power actually to kill one of the Masters. How could it be done? How do you fight something without dimensions, without even known equations that might give a symbolic approximation to its character? Not, surely, by bombing minor power stations here and there. Not even by bombing them all. The Masters transcended mere technology. Inside the fence, from somewhere in the tangle of gutted machinery, there was a moan. A woman's voice reiterated the single word: "Masters, Masters..." "That's not a Dingo," Julie said. "Some poor pet has been caught in there. Why, Cuddles, do you realize this means all the pets have been abandoned?" We made our way through a hole in the fence sheared open by a fallen pylon. Kneeling a few feet from that hole, her face turned away from us, was the moaning woman. She was using the blasted crossbeam of the pylon as a sort of prie-dieu. Her hair, though tangled and dirty, still showed traces of domestication. She was decently naked, but her flesh was discolored by bruises and her legs were badly scratched. Confronted with this pathetic ruin of a once handsome pet, I realized for the first time how terribly wild Julie looked: dressed in the most vulgar clothes, her hair wound up in a practical but inartistic bun and knotted with strips of cloth, her lovely feet encased in clumsy rubber boots. We must have looked like Dingoes. The poor woman stopped moaning and turned to confront us. Her face expressed, in order, the ascending degrees of amazement, ending in blank amaze. "Father," she said, aghast. "Roxanna!" I exclaimed. "Is it you?" V I t was she. We were the longest time calming her and explaining that, quite the opposite to being her father, I was only little White Fang, grown up to a man's estate. "But your clothes," she said. "I'd know that jacket anywhere. And those boots with the red rubber circle around the rim." Briefly as I could I explained how our Master had brought us to the farm and deserted us, and how we had to take clothes from the farmhouse -- her parents' clothes, as it happened. "And did your brother Pluto come back with you?" "No. He's left the solar system, the last I heard." Roxanna's expression underwent a subtle change, as though she had begun to make calculations. The conversation lapsed awkwardly. "Have you read Pluto's book?" Julie asked. "I started it, but I couldn't understand it." She sighed. "My reading's fallen off lately. Even Proust doesn't seem as interesting as he used to. And then, of course, there's been this revolution..." "Ah yes," I said, "the revolution. Would you tell us some more about that?" Roxanna's account was none too clear, having been assembled from eavesdropped conversations and uninformed conjecture. Even the word revolution proved to be misleading. I've written here not the garbled story Roxanna told us then, but the facts as they were later to be established by the courts and newspapers. July had been a month of unusual sunspot activity. The Masters, anticipating the dynamic auroral displays that follow such periods, had flocked to Earth -- many, like our Master, bringing their pets with them. Shortly after our arrival, during the afternoon that Julie and I had been Unleashed, a solar prominence of extraordinary intensity had erupted from the center of a sunspot cluster and knocked the Masters out of commission. It was like a house that's been drawing too heavily on its current. Everything was turned on: the refrigerator, the stove, the air conditioner, the iron, the toaster, the coffee pot, the flood lights, the television, and the model railroad in the basement. Then Blat!, lightning strikes and there's one hell of a short circuit. Lights out, tubes popped, wires burnt, motors dead. The Masters weren't dead, of course. They're made of stronger stuff than toasters. But while they convalesced... Roxanna herself had been spared the worst of it, since she hadn't been in the Shroeder Kennel when the lights went out. But she'd seen it happen. In a flash (literally, a flash), the entire kennel -- walls, floors, even the anti-gravitic furniture had disappeared. It was as though they had existed only as an idea in the mind of God, and then God had gone and forgotten them. Pets, who had been soarW j ing balletically in the veet ipaees of tiie gymnasium, soared now in vaster spaces. Everyone who had been in the Kennel suddenly found himself plunging down to the ground, overpowered by the Earth's gravity, accelerating. The carnage had been terrible. The Schroeder Kennel, such as it was, was thrown into panic. But the worst was still before them. The Dingoes, quicker to realize what had happened than the distracted pets, had overrun the breeding farms and kennels everywhere. In the first fires of revolutionary excitement, they were ruthless. Puppies were taken from their mothers, to be raised in the homes of Dingoes; the men, any who resisted, were r.uthlessly slaughtered before the eyes of their mates, and the women... Well, what would one expect of Dingoes? A t this point Roxanna broke into tears, unable to go on. I noticed then that her body was covered with small black-and-blue marks, too tiny to have resulted from blows, but too numerous to be accidental. I insisted that Roxanna finish her tale. "Oh, I hate him!" she said, not loudly but quite expressively nonetheless. "I hate him! God, how I hate him!" All in all, it took Roxanna the better part of two hours to tell this story, for she had a way of veering off into digressions that would have been the delight of. any admirer of Tristram Shandy , though, for my own part, I am inclined to be more straightforward. In fact, her divagations had begun to distress me considerably, as soon as I realized that the vicinity was still swarming with Dingoes, and that Roxanna was living with the chief of them! "Roxanna," I said, trying to get her to her feet, "Julie and I are going to help you to escape. And we'd better start right away." "It's too late," Roxanna said with a sigh in which the resignation was not unmixed with a little pleasure. Too long allegiance to such a master as Proust had finally taken its toll on Roxanna's character, and, though I may anticipate my story by mentioning the word here, I should like to say it and have done. Roxanna, sadly, was something of a masochist. "Roxanna," I said, more firmly now, "you must come with us." "Get your own bitch, Master," came a good-natured bellow of a voice from not too far away. With a sinking heart, I faced the intruder, a red-faced hulk of flesh many sizes too large for the khakis he wore. He stood on the other side of the fence, arms akimbo and grinning broadly. He held what looked like a glass fishing rod in his meaty hand. "The name's Schwartz -- Bruno in these parts. We're repatriating these damn pets. Now, come on home, Rocky, old girl. Your master calls." He laughed. So this was a Dingo! For the moment I was safe, for he obviously mistook me for a Dingo too, and perhaps I might have escaped if I had let him go on believing it. But I was too angry. "You are not Roxanna's Master, and she is not going with you." "The hell you say!" "Please," Roxanna pleaded. "I must go to him." But her body didn't protest; she was limp with fear. I pushed her behind me and picked up my axe from the ground. Bruno's smile broadened. "What are you, anyhow? Some kind of pet!" "Dingo!" I said with the utmost contempt. Bruno reached a hand behind his back and made adjustments on an apparatus strapped there. It was the size of one of our knapsacks. Then he climbed through the hole in the fence, brandishing the long, flexible pole. "Axes!" he scoffed. "Next thing you know someone will invent the bow and arrow." I advanced toward the Dingo, who stood now within the fence, my axe readied and murder in my heart, as they say. With my left hand I held to the metal frame of the fallen pylon, using it as a crutch. My knees were very weak. Bruno flicked the end of the glass fishing rod against the pylon. There was a spark and my mind reeled. I was sitting on the ground. I could see Bruno above me between white flashes of unconsciousness. I swung at him wildly. The axe hit the pylon with a dull thunk. He flicked the pole at me again. It touched my left leg at the knee. The shock tore through my body and wrenched a cry from my lips. "Good stuff, huh, Jack? Great IF for the circulation. If you're interested in mechanical things, it's real easy to make. It's a prod pole. Prod poles were meant for cattle, but they work on most any animal." He flicked it again, tracing a line of pain across my neck. I screamed in agony -- I couldn't help it. "The fishpole was my idea. It handles easier this way." He let the tip of the pole play over my right arm. Every shred of consciousness that remained to me was in my hand. I clenched the axe handle until the pain in my hand was worse than the flashes of pain that tore through my whole body -- until there was no consciousness left. When I woke (seconds later? Minutes? I don't know), I could hear Roxanna's hysterical laughter. Bruno had finished with her. Julie's voice, pitched so high that I could hardly recognize it, was saying stay away , and then, a little sharper still, Stay away! There was a sparking noise and her scream. "White Fang!" she called. "Oh, Mastery -- White Fang!" She had called me that! Not Cuddles, not Prometheus. White Fang! I sprang to my feet, and the axe was just part of my hand now. I felt, as never before, even when I was Leashed, totally alive and aware, absolutely sure of myself. My body was a living flame. Bruno had caught hold of Julie. He heard me scrambling over the wreckage of the station and turned around just in time for the axe to come crashing down across his chest. I hadn't meant to draw blood. I had only wanted to smash the power pack strapped to his back. There was a terrible gush of blood from the chest wound, thick and winy. The axe in my hand was covered with blood. It was horrible. I had never seen anyone bleeding like this before, never. It was horrible! The blood. The thought that I had done this -- even the sight of it -- was too much, and I collapsed onto Bruno's fallen body. The last thing I remember was Roxanna's tear-streaked face as she rushed forward to take the fallen Dingo in her arms. VI T hough my bed was comfortable, the walls of the room antiseptically white, and my meals thoroughly good, I suspect that I spent the next week in a prison, not a hospital. The guard who brought my food would not speak to me, and I was not allowed to read. My only diversion from anxiously wondering what was in store for me was looking down at the semi-deserted streets four stories below. I did not know what city this was nor how I had come here. There was some faint recollection of sitting by another, smaller window and staring with dismay at the laboring propeller without, desperately wishing my Master had been there to tend to its rustic operation -- but perhaps that was only one of the nightmares I had so frequently then. I knew that the few people I saw on the streets, the women in long. #  ungainly dresses and the men in unseasonably heavy suits, must be Dingoes. And though I had never seen Dingoes in such close proximity before, their dress and behavior was so uniformly dull that I soon grew tired of observing them and began, instead, to count the cars that went by. This wasn't so boring as you might think, for the various trucks, jeeps, and tractors still in use among the Dingoes (rarely if ever did one see a car) presented a beautiful study in comparative ruination. From the way they roared and sputtered and spewed out black clouds of noxious gas it was obvious that the Dingoes had abandoned heavy industry for decades. These were antiques. They were usually of an official nature, and those same insignia which I had seen scrawled on the telephone poles outside of Schroeder "were painted on the sides of the trucks or on banners that streamed from the jeeps' antennae. I was reminded of the heraldic devices of some crusading army: Resistor statant, sable on a field of gules; diode dormant, on a quartered field, ermine and vert. To my surprise, the city was strongly illuminated at night. Either the Dingoes had an independent source of electrical power (which seemed unlikely) or the Masters had the power stations back in operation and were reestablishing their dominance. For a moment the chemistry of hope jangled my nerve ends, but I quickly recollected where exactly T was, and the hope fizzled. After a week in this limbo, I received my first visitor. It was Julie, but a Julie so altered in appearance that I thought at first she was a Dingo spy in disguise. Prison does develop one's paranoid tendencies. She was wearing a high-necked, long-sleeved, floor length dress in the Dingo style and her beautiful hair was concealed by an ungainly cork helmet such as I had seen on several persons passing below my window. "Julie!" I exclaimed. "What have they done to you?" "I've been repatriated." She wasn't able to raise her eyes to look into mine, and her whole manner was one of unnatural constraint. No doubt, this could be accounted for by the presence of the armed guard who was watching us from the open doorway. "You mean they've forced you to -- " "Nobody's forced me to do anything. I just decided to become a Dingo. They're really much nicer than I thought they'd be. They're not all like Bruno. And even he's not so bad -- once you get to know him." "My God, Julie!" "Oh, don't be upset. That's not what I meant. Bruno's too much in love with Roxanna to think of bothering me." "That isn't what I meant." B ut Julie went blithely on. "They're going to get married as soon as she's out of the hospital. On the airplane coming here, he was delirious and he told me all about himself. I can't say I understood much of it. Do you know that he no IF actually likes you? He does. There he was all bandaged up, lying on the stretcher, and he said, 'I wasn't smashed like that since God knows when. Good man! We'll get along, White Fang and me.' I thought it was just the delirium, but he was serious. He wants you to visit the both of them as soon as you can." "And Roxanna's going to marry him?" "Yes. And she's very mad at you. For hurting Bruno." "But T was trying to protect her!" The story that Julie at last unfolded, in her rather scattered way was this: Roxanna, when she saw me strike Bruno with the axe, suddenly decided that she was in love with her tormentor, and her newfound love was every bit as strong as the hatred she had expressed only minutes before. In the heat of the moment, she had been almost angry enough to use my axe on me, but Julie and the Dingoes who had been drawn to the scene had been able to stop her. They didn't stop her from revealing that I was the son of Tennyson White, a fact that Roxanna was sure would lead to my summary execution, since she had often heard the story of how Daddy had been done in by the Dingoes. But instead we'd been shipped off to St. Paul, where the Dingoes had their headquarters in the old State Capitol Building. What they intended to do with me now, Julie would not say, even if she knew. I had my own grim suspicions. Julie spent the rest of her visit trying to justify the haste with which she had allowed the Dingoes to repatriate her, and since she had no apparent excuse but expediency, it was rather hard going. At last I interrupted her: "Julie, please don't talk on about it. I quite understand that you've had to disassociate yourself from me. Heaven only knows what they intend should happen to me, but there's no reason it should happen to you as well. Perhaps they mean to use me as a hostage. Perhaps they mean something worse. In either case, you're lucky to be rid of me." I was just beginning to hit my stride, and no doubt I would have brought myself to the point of tears, when Julie started to giggle. To giggle! She tittered and snorted and snuffled like someone who can't keep a joke, and she left the room bent double with the pain of holding back her laughter. Hysteria, of course. It was a very sad thing to see the girl you love in such a condition and to be unable to help. W ithin an hour of Julie's departure, I was removed from my cell and conducted to an unmarked limousine in perfect working condition. I did not know where it was taking me, for the curtains were drawn in the back seat, but shortly we found ourselves in a large and largely vacant underground parking area. Then, after a labyrinth of staircases, corridors, guards, and passwords, I at last found myself alone in front of an imposing mahogany desk. The desk and all the appointments of this room testified to the consequence of their possessor. In a subsistence economy like that of the Dingoes, luxury is a potent symbol. My attention was especially drawn to the portrait that hung over the desk. Done in the mock-primitive style popular in the late sixties of the last century, it slyly exaggerated those features of the subject which were most suggestive of the raw and barbarous. His stomach, though monumental itself, was seen from a perspective that magnified its bulk. The face was crudely colored, particularly the nose, which was a florid, alcoholic crimson. The violettinged lips were at once cynical and voluptuary. The picture was the perfect archetype of the Dingo. Yet, perhaps not perfect, for the eyes shone with an intelligence and good will that seemed to contradict the overall impression of brutishness. This one dissonance added to the archetype that touch of individual life which only the best portraitists have ever been able to achieve. I was still engaged in studying this painting (and really, it had the strangest fascination for me) when its original stepped into the room and came forward to shake my hand. "Sorry to have kept you waiting, but my time hasn't been my own ever since that damn sunspot." When he had finished shaking my hand, he did not immediately release it, but, keeping it in his, looked me over appraisingly. "You'll have to get rid of that name of yours, you know. White Fang just won't do. We Dingoes as you call us, don't like doggish names. Your proper name is Dennis White, isn't it? Well, Dennis, welcome to the revolution." "Thank you but... "But who am I? I'm the Grand High Diode. As far as you're concerned, that means vice-president. Are you interested in politics?" "Pets don't have to be. We're free." "Ah, freedom!" The Grand High Diode made an expansive gesture, then plopped into the seat behind the desk. "Your Master takes care of everything for you and leaves you so perfectly free. Except that you can't taste anything from the goodand-evil tree, why, there's nothing that isn't allowed you." He glowered at me dramatically, and I had time to compare the portrait with the portrayed. My admiration for the artist grew by leaps and bounds. "The Masters appeared two-thirds of a century ago. In that time, human civilization has virtually disappeared. Our political institutions are in shambles; our economy is little more than bartering now; there are practically no artists left." "Among Dingoes perhaps. But under the Mastery, civilization is flourishing as never before in man's history." "Cows were never more civilized than when we bred them." I smiled. "You're playing with words." "Perhaps you'd rather not argue. "I'd rather argue. If it keeps me away from the hangman -- or whoever you employ for such purposes." "Perhaps you can avoid him altogether. Perhaps, Dennis, I can conIF vince you to become a Dingo?" The man's thick, violet lips distended in a wolfish grin. His eyes, which were, like his eyes in the portrait, vivid with intelligence, glittered with a strange sort of mirth. I tried my best to look disdainful. "Isn't it rather late to join? I should think that most of the carnage must be over by now. You'll be ready to be defeated any day now." "Oh, we'll probably be defeated, but a good revolutionary can't let that worry him. A battle that isn't against the odds would hardly be a battle at all. The carnage, I'll admit, is unfortunate." "And unjustifiable as well." "Then I won't bother to justify it. Dirty hands is one of the prices you pay in becoming a man again." "Are you fighting your revolution just so you can feel guilty about it?" "For that -- and for the chance to be our own Masters. Guilt and sweat and black bread are all part of being human. Domestic animals are always bred to a point where they're helpless in the state of nature. The Masters have been breeding men." "And doing a better job of it than man ever did." "That, I might point out, is exactly the view a dachshund would take." "Then let me put in a good word for dachshunds. I prefer them to wolves. I prefer them to Dingoes." "Do you? Don't make up your mind too quickly, or it may cost you your head." And, with this threat, my incredible inquisitor began to chuckle. His chuckle became a pronounced laugh, and the laugh grew to be a roar. It occurred to me that the gleam in his eye might as well have been madness as intelligence. Suddenly I was overcome by a desire just to have done. "My mind is made up," I announced, when he had stopped laughing. "Then you'll make a declaration?" Apparently, he had taken the exact opposite of the meaning I had intended. "Why should you care which side I'm on?" I demanded angrily. "Because a statement from you -- from the son of Tennyson White -- with the strength of that name behind it -- would be invaluable in the cause of freedom." Very deliberately I approached the mahogany desk where the man was sitting, wreathed in a fatuous smile, and very deliberately I raised my hand and struck him full in the face. Instantly the room was filled witk guards who pinned my arms behind my back. The man behind the desk began to chuckle. "You beast!" I shouted. "You Dingo! You have the conscience to kidnap and murder my father, and then you dare ask me to make you a declaration of support! I can't believe -- if you think that -- " I'm afraid that I went on raving like that for a little while. And as I raved that incredible man' lay sprawled on the top of his desk and laughed until he had lost his breath. "White Fang," he managed at last. "That is to say, Dennis, my dear boy. excuse me. Perhaps I've carried this a little far. But you see --  am your father. I'm not murdered in the least." T he next week went by at a pace that would have been nightmarish if I hadn't been so giddily, busily happy. First off, I married Julie. Daddy was adamant about that. He explained how Dingoes, especially those in the public eye, have to appear very monogamous. I had no objection to marriage, and if monogamy was necessary, there was no one I would rather have been monogamous with than Julie. She entered into the spirit of things with enthusiastic atavism, and I suspect now that part of Daddy's insistance had had its origin in my bride. Still it was a nice wedding. Hymen's candle never burned brighter than on the day that our hands were joined over the glowing vacuum tube on the altar of the renovated power station. We had our first quarrel an hour later when she told me that she'd known about Daddy and the test he was preparing for me on the day that she had come to visit me at the jailhouse. But the quarrel ended as soon a? Julie had pointed out that, since I'd passed the test so well, I had no cause for anger. I hate to think what would have happened, however, if I'd agreed to make the "declaration" that Daddy had proposed. From the first, Julie and I were celebrities among the Dingoes. At a steady succession of lunches, dinners, and dances, we played the part of refugees from the "tyranny of the Masters, grateful for our newfound freedom." That's a quote from the speech Daddy wrote for me to deliver on such occasions. It always drew applause. Dingoes have no taste. While I acted my role as a model revolutionary, I carried on another more significant drama inwardly. Had it been merely a contest between filial piety and my loyalty to the Masters, I would not have hesitated long, for filial piety is negligible when, for seventeen years, you have presumed your father dead. But mine had been no ordinary father. He had been Tennyson White, and he had written A Dogs Life. Now I discovered there was a sequel to that book. I read through The Life of Man in one sitting of fifteen hours' duration. It was one of the most shattering experiences in my life. In fact, right at this moment, I can't remember any others to compare. Anyone who's read it realizes the difficulty one faces trying to describe it. It's got a little bit of everything: satire, polemic, melodrama, farce. After the classic unity of A Dog's Life , the sequel strikes at one's sensibilities like a jet of water from a high-pressure hose. It begins with the same light irony, the same subdued wit, but gradually -- it's hard to say just when -- the viewpoint shifts. Scenes from the first novel are repeated verbatim , but now its IF pleasantries have become horrors. Allegory gives way to a brutal, damning realism; and every word of it seemed an accusation aimed directly at me. After the first reading, I had no more distinct memory of it than I would have had of a hammer blow. And so I entirely overlooked the fact that The Life of Man is autobiography from first to last. M y father Tennyson White belonged to the first generation of men who grew up away from Earth. His first visit to his native planet was at the age of twenty, and it was almost a disaster. Stricken with a virus infection (those were the days before the Masters had quite mastered all the intricacies of their pets' physiology), Daddy had been abandoned to a rather second-rate hospital, not unlike the Shroeder Kennel in its indifference to the pets who were put up there. Daddy was bedridden for one year, time enough to lose his faith in the Mastery. Time enough, also, for him to draw up the outlines for both of his novels. Time enough to contact important Dingoes and map out with their aid a program for revolution. A Dog's Life was to be the overture to that program. Many authors have been accused of corrupting youth and debasing the moral coinage of their times. Probably none have ever set about it so deliberately as Daddy. His novel was a time-bomb disguised as an Easter egg and planted right in the middle of the Masters' basket. It was a Trojan horse; it was a slow-working acid that nibbled at the minds of the pets -- just a mild, esthetic tickle at first, then as it worked in deeper, an abrasive that scarred them with guilt. For men are not meant to be domestic animals. Those who stood the acid-test of that novel managed to escape to Earth and join the Dingoes. Those who didn't (and sadly, these were by far the majority) stayed with the Masters and incorporated the monstrous satire of A Dog's Life into the fabric of their daily lives. They became dogs. Ten years after the publication of A Dog's Life , Daddy effected his own escape to Earth. His autobiography makes no mention of the fact that he left his two sons behind when he went over to the Dingoes, and he refuses to talk about it still. I have always suspected that he doubted, if only slightly, whether he Was doing the right thing. It was a large enough doubt for ourselves whether we wished to become Dingoes or remain Leashed. The Earth was swarming with refugees from the Mastery, and the revolutionary movement -- the Revolutionary Inductance Corps, or (Naturally, the Dingoes did not want to call themselves Dingoes .) Daddy's next task was more difficult, for he had to forge an army from the unorganized mass of apathetic Dingoes who had never left Earth. The Life of Man accomplished part of this purpose, for it showed the Dingoes what they were: an amorphous mass of discontent, without program or purpose; a race that had taken the first step towards its own extinction. But the Dingoes were not such novel-readers as the pets. Only the more thoughtful read his second novel, and they didn't need to. Daddy gradually realized that no amount of literature would spark the tinder of the Dingoes into a revolutionary firebrand. And so it was (and now we leave Daddy's autobiography and enter the sphere of raw history) that my father invented a mythology. The Dingoes were ripe for one. Ever since the appearance of the Masters (who bore an unfortunate resemblance to mankind's favorite gods), organized religion had gotten quite disorganized. Men of religious or mystical sensibilities were among the first to volunteer for the kennels, where they could contemplate the nearly divine nature of the Masters without any of the discomforts of the ascetic life. The Dingoes, on the other hand, found it difficult to venerate gods who so much resembled their sworn enemies. Daddy realized that under these conditions, the Dingoes might accept a "religion" of demonology and sympathetic magic. When the gods are malign, men turn to jujus and totems. But wax dolls and devil masks would no longer do, for the first law of sympathetic magic is that "Like produces like." The Masters were electromagnetic phenomena: then what better talisman than a dry cell? In any elementary physics text, there was a wealth of arcane lore, hieratic symbols, and even battle cries. Children were taught Kirchoff' s Laws in their cradles, and men (and women) wore cork helmets to ward off the Masters, since cork was a good insulator. It was nonsense, but it was effective nonsense. The Revolutionary Inductance Corps won an overwhelming majority in the councils of the Dingoes on the Daddy became Triode in the revolutionary government, next in authority to the High Cathode himself. Everyone was ready to begin the revolution, and no one had the least idea how to go about it. Which goes to show that it's good IF to be prepared, because that was when a providential sunspot shortcircuited the Masters. The leaders of the Dingoes had managed to take the credit for their own good luck, but now a month had passed since the sunspot, and already the Masters had manifested themselves here and there as localized patches of luminescence in the atmosphere, hovering over their pets and repossessing them. In a very short time the Mastery would be established stronger than ever, unless the Dingoes found some way to stop them. Cork helmets may be good for morale, but in a real contest I'd as soon defend myself with a popgun. If the Dingoes had made any serious plans, Daddy wasn't telling me about them. D addy, Julie, and I had been waiting in the lobby of the St. Paul Hotel for fifteen minutes, and in all that time we hadn't seen one room clerk or bellboy. There weren't even many guests, for Earth had become so depopulated during the Mastery that a roof and a bed were always easy to come by. What you couldn't find anywhere was labor. Even the best hotels and restaurants were self-service. Finally Bruno and Rocky (for that had come to seem a better name for her than Roxanna) finished dressing and came down to the lobby. Bruno was wearing an unpressed cotton suit and a sport shirt open at the neok, so that a little bit of the bandage about his chest peeped out. Rocky was dressed to kill; Julie looked as staid as a nun in comparison. But when you're only twenty years old, you don't have to try so hard as you do when you're thirty-two. We exchanged pleasantries, decided on a restaurant, and went out to Daddy's car -- and thus began the ghastliest night of my life. Bruno was returning to his post in Duluth the next day, and we'd been unable to put him off any longer. For days he had been insisting that the five us -- the two Schwartzes and the three Whites -- "make a night of it." I felt guilty toward Bruno, and at that time I hadn't yet learned to live with a guilty conscience. I gave in. I would have been suspicious of overtures of friendship from a man I'd sent to the hospital and I might have simply supposed that, like most Dingoes, Bruno was chiefly interested in making my father's acquaintance. However, his first overture had come before he knew my father was Tennyson White, and so it was hard to doubt his sincerity. I decided that he was only mad. If I felt guilty and awkward towards Bruno, I can't imagine how Rocky felt towards me. When she had revealed my identity to the Dingoes she couldn't have known that my father was the second-in-command of the Dingoes -- not, as she had supposed, their arch-enemy. knew who their leaders were. She had intended to see me executed, and instead she had saved my life. Now we were sitting next to each other in the back seat of Daddv's limousine, talking about old times. When we got out, she managed to bring her spiked heel down on my instep with lethal accuracy, and once, in the middle of the dinner, smiling brightly and chattering all the while, she kicked me square in the shin underneath the tablecloth. The meal wouldn't have gone beyond the main course if it hadn't been that almost all of Rocky's remarks went over Bruno's head. He was dauntlessly ebullient, and when he started to talk, he could go on indefinitely. To shut off Rocky (who eouldn't hear enough about our wedding), I questioned Bruno about his childhood, which had been (it seemed to me) spectacularly awful. For he majority of Dingoes, life is one long battle: against the world, against their families, against their teachers, and against the decay of their own minds and bodies. No wonder Bruno was the aggressive lout that he was! But it didn't make me like him any better. When the dinner was done and I thought we might make our escape, Bruno brought out an envelope from the pocket of his coat and announced, as though he really expected us to be happy, that he had five tickets for the fight. "What fight?" I asked. "The boxing match at the Armory. Kelly Broughan's there tonight, so it should be worth seeing. I bet you don't see many good fights out in the asteroids, do you?" "No," I said in defeated tones. "None at all." "There are some beautiful gymnastic competitions, though," Julie put in. Bruno's laugh was the bellow of a wounded bull. Gymnastics was a good joke; beautiful was even better. "You're a card, Julie. Dennis, that girl's a card," he got out between bellows. Rocky's eyes gleamed wickedly. "Dennis, you really must come, seeing that you're such a scrapper yourself. And you must come too, Mr. White. You look worn out." "What the hell," Daddy said, "let's all go. And afterwards we'll watch the fireworks." "I love fireworks," Julie said, with forced cheer. We got up from the table with one accord. Bruno and Rocky were as happy as two children. Julie and I were glum. But Daddy... Daddy was in so profound an abyss of depression and defeat that he was quite literally unaware of most of what was going on around him. He knew, as we did not, that the Dingoes were about to shoot their wad that evening, and he knew, as the rest of the Dingoes did not, that their wad wasn't worth a plugged nickel. All they had was atomic bombs. W hether it was because Bruno knew the gate attendant or because Daddy was with us, I don't know, but our General Admission tickets got us seats at ringside. Our eyes had scarcely adjusted to the smokey light of the auditorium, when a bell rang and two men, modestly nude except for colored briefs, approached each other, moving their IF arms in nervous rhythms, circling about warily. One (in red trunks) lashed out at the other with his left hand, a feint to the stomach. With his right hand he swung at the other man's face. There was a cracking sound as his naked fist connected with his opponent's cheekbone. The crowd began to scream. Blood spurted from the man's nose. I averted my eyes. Bruno, in his element, added his distinctive bellow to the uproar. Rocky watched me closely, treasuring my every blench and wince. Daddy looked bored, and Julie kept her eyes closed through the whole thing. I should have done the same, but when I heard another thunk and a loud crash, curiosity overcame my finer feelings and I looked back into the ring. The man in red trunks was lying on his back, his expressionless face a scant few inches from my own. There was blood on it. Rocky was shrieking with pleasure, but Bruno, who felt an allegiance for the fighter in red trunks, shouted, "Get up, you bum!" I was about to be nauseous. I rose from my seat, mumbling apologies, and found my way outside, where I was discreetly sick in a hedge across the street from the Armory. It was actually a very interesting experience, for it was the second time in my whole life I had thrown up. I was reminded of the apple I had eaten in the Nelson orchard. The hedge bordered on a park which had been allowed to go to seed. Through the thick summer foliage I could see the glint of moonlit water. I strolled down the hillside to the pond's edge. Down there, the din of the stadium melted into the other night sounds: the croaking of the frogs, the rustle of poplar leaves, the rippling water. It was quiet and earthlike. A full moon shone overhead, like the echo of a thousand poems. All the earthbound poets who had stolen the fire of their lyrics from that moon, age after age! It had passed them by, oblivious of histories, and it would pass me by in time. That's the way that things should be. I knew then that I belonged to the Earth, and my spirit dilated with happiness. It wasn't quite the right time to be happy -- but there it was. Julie and the moon were part of it, but it was also the frogs croakings, the poplars, the stadium; Daddy, cynical, aspiring, even defeated; partly too it was Bruno and Roxanna, if only because they were so vital. These things melted into my memory of the Nelson farm, and it seemed that I could smell the winy smell of apples rotting in the grass. The sky was growing brighter and brighter. The moon... But was it the moon? A cloud of mist had gathered above the pond and it glowed until the full moon was almost blotted out behind it. The meshes of the Leash closed over my mind, and a voice inside my head purred kindly: White Fang, good boy! It's all right now. We heard your call. (But I hadn't called! It was just that I had been so happy!) And now I've come. Your Master has come back at last for you. I cried out then, a simply cry of pain. To be taken away now! Only a few days before I had cried for the lack of this voice -- and now... There , it soothed, there, there, there. Has it been bad? Has it been that very bad? Those terrible Dingoes have captured you , but it won't happen again. There , there. The Leash began gently to stroke the sensory area of the cortex: soft fur wrapped me, scented with musk. Faint ripples of harp-music (or was that only the water of the pond?) sounded behind my Master's voice, which poured forth comforting words, like salve spread over a wound. Then, with a sudden pang, I remembered Daddy. ( Don't think of your poor father, the Leash bade.) He was waiting for me. Julie was waiting for me. (We'll get Julie back , too. Now, don't you worry yourself any more.) Desperately I tried not to think, or at least to keep my thoughts so scrambled that I would not betray the things I knew. But it was exactly that effort that focused my thoughts on the forbidden subjects. I tried to think of nonsense, of poetry, of the moon, dim behind the glowing air. But the Leash, sensing my resistance, closed tighter around my mind, and cut through my thin web of camouflage. It shuffled through my memory as though it were a deck of cards, and it stopped (there was just time enough for me to catch the images then) to examine images of my father with particular attention. There was, on the very edge of my perceptions, a sound: Ourrp. Which was repeated: Ourrp. It was not a sound my Leash would make. The harp-music quavered for a moment, becoming a prosaic ripple of water. I concentrated on that single sound, straining against the Leash. "What is that sound?" I asked my Master. To answer me he had to stop sorting through my memories. Nothing. It's nothing. Don't think about it. Listen to the beautiful music, why don't you? Think of your father. Whatever was making the sound seemed to be down in the grass. I could see clearly in the wash of light from the cloud above me. I parted the grass at my feet, and I saw the beastly thing. Don't think about it! IF The front half of a frog projected from the distended jaws of a water snake. The snake, seeing me, writhed, pulling his victim into the denser grass. Again the Leash bade me not to look at this thing, and, truly, I did not want to. It was so horrible, but I could not help myself. The frog had stretched his front legs to the side to prevent the last swallow that would end him. Meanwhile, the back half of him was being digested. He emitted another melancholy Ourrp. Horrible, I thought. Oh, horrible , horrible, horrible! Stop this. You... must... stop... The snake lashed his body, wriggling slowly backwards. The frog's front feet grasped at sprigs of grass. His Ourrp had grown quite weak. In the failing light, I almost lost sight of the struggle in the shadow of the tall grass. I bent closer. In the moon's light I could see a thin line of white froth about the snake's gaping jaws. The cloud of light had disappeared. My Master had left, and I could hear Daddy calling my name. I ran back up to the street. He was there with Julie.  "Mastery!" Julie said. "You shouldn't have run off like that. We came out and saw a light over the lake, and I was sure they'd carried you off." "They almost did. My Master was there, and I was Leashed. But then I slipped out of it somehow. And he went away. He just disappeared. Are you all right, Daddy?" For he was visibly shaking with excitement. "Oh, quite, quite," he said, paying scant attention. "I'm thinking." "He had an idea," Julie explained, "right after you ran out of the fight. I guess this is what happens when he has ideas."  B runo pulled up beside us in the limousine and honked, not because we hadn't seen him, but just because he liked to honk. We got into the back seat and the car tore off down the street at a speed that it must not have hit for the last half a century. "Rocky's making the calls you told her to, sir," Bruno announced. "Fine. Now, Dennis, what was this about your Master?" I explained what had happened, concluding with an account of the frog and the snake. "And while you were watching that, your Master just faded away?" "Yes. If he'd kept at me much longer, he'd have learned everything he was looking for. I couldn't have stood out against him. So why did he go?" "One more question, first. What did you feel about that frog? Precisely." "It was ugly. I felt... disgusted." "Was it anything like the way you felt at the fight tonight?" "Worse." "But the same sort of thing? Ugliness, then disgust and nausea?" "Yes." "Then those are the weapons we'll fight them with! Dennis, my son! Before this night is over, you will be a great hero of the revolution!" "Don't I deserve an explanation, or does the revolution need ignorant heroes?" "When you left the fight you looked so distressed that I was a bit amused. Dennis is such an esthete still, I thought. And then I remembered the old saw: Like Master , like man . Turn it around, and it's the formula for our weapon: Like man , like Master . The Masters are just their own pets writ large. They're esthetes, every last one of them. And we're their favorite art-form. A human brain is the clay they work in. They order our minds just the way they order the Northern Lights. That's why they prefer an intelligent, educated pet to an undeveloped Dingo. The Dingoes are lumpy clay, warped canvas, faulty marble." "They must feel about a Dingo the way I do about Salvador Dali," Julie said. She always wanted to argue about Salvador Dali with me, because she knows I like him. "Or the way I feel about prize fights," I suggested. "Or any experience," Daddy concluded, "that offends a person's esthetic sensibilities. They just can't stand ugliness." We were silent for a while, considering this. Except Bruno. "Give yourself time, Dennis. You'll get so you like a fight. Kelly just wasn't in form tonight, that's all." Before I could answer, the limousine was sailing down a concrete ramp into a brightly lit garage. "The hospital," Bruno announced. A man in a white robe approached us. "Everything is ready, Mr. White. As soon as we received your call, we set to work." "The radiomen are here, too?" "They're working with our technicians already. And Mrs. Schwartz said she'd join her husband directly." A terrible light suddenly kindled the night sky outside the garage. "The Masters!" I cried. "Damnation, the bombs!" Daddy exclaimed. "I forgot about them. Dennis, go with the doctor and do what he says. I have to call up stop the bombings." "What are they bombing?" "They're trying to land one in the Van Allen Belt. I tried to tell them it wouldn't do any good. They tried it in #, and it didn't accomplish a thing. But they were getting desT# ir perate, and I couldn't suggest any better plan. But now it would be disastrous if they detonated a bomb in the Van Allen Belt, because it will knock out radio communications, and we're going to be needing them. Bruno, Julie, wait in the car for me." A team of doctors led me down the long enamel-white corridors to a room filled with a complicated array of electrical and surgical equipment. The doctor-in-chief indicated that I was to lie down on an uncomfortable metal pallet. When I had done so, two steel bars were clamped on either side of my head. The doctor held a rubber mask over my mouth and nose. "Breathe deeply," he said. The anesthetic worked quickly. IX D addy was yelling at the doctor when I woke up. "Did you have to use an anesthetic? We don't have time to waste on daintiness." "The placement of the electrodes is a very delicate operation. He should be awake in any moment." "I'm awake," I said. The doctor rushed over to my pallet. "Don't move your head," he warned. Rather unnecessarily, it seemed, for my head was still clamped in the steel vice, although I was now propped up into a sitting position. "How are you feeling?" Daddy asked. "Miserable." "That's fine. Now, listen: the machine behind you ("Don't look," the doctor interrupted.) is an electroencephalograph. It records brain waves." The doctor broke in again: "There are electrodes in six different areas. I've tried to explain to your father that we're uncertain where perceptions of an esthetic nature are centered. Little work has been done since -- " "Later, doctor, later. Now what I want Dennis to do is suffer. Actually, it's White Fang who will suffer. White Fang must drown in misery. I've already arranged some suitable entertainments, but you should tell me right now if there's anything especially distasteful to you that we might get. Some little phobia all your own." "Please -- explain what this is about?" "Your electroencephalograms are being taken to every radio station in the city. The wave patterns will be amplified and broadcast over AM and FM. Every station in the country, in the world, is standing by to pick them up. Tomorrow night we'll give the Masters a concert like they've never heard before." A man in workclothes brought m a blackboard and gave it to Daddy. "Doctor, you have better fingernails than I do. Rub them over this slate." It made an intolerable noise, which the doctor kept up for a solid minute. "How does the graph look?" Daddy asked. "Largest responses are in the sensory area. But fairly generalized else where, especially during the firsr twenty seconds. " "Well, there's lots more coming. Look at these pictures, Dennis." He showed me illustrations from a medical encyclopedia that I will refrain from describing here. The people in the pictures were beyond the reach of medicine. Beyond the reach, even, of sympathy. "The response is stronger and more general now. Quite well defined." Daddy passed a vial of formaldehyde beneath my nose. It was actually more a bottle than a vial, and in it -- I screamed. "Excellent," the doctor said. "Bring in the band," said Daddy. A crew of four men with musical instruments I was unfamiliar with (they were, I've since learned, electric guitar, musical saw, accordion, and tuba) entered the room. They were dressed in outlandish costumes: glorified work clothes in garish colors garnished with all sorts of leather and metal accessories. On their heads were ridiculous, flaring bonnets. "Extraordinary," the doctor said, "he's already responding." "Go to it, boys," Daddy said. They began -- well, they began to sing. It was like singing. Their untuned instruments blasted out a stupid One-two-three, Onetwo-three repetitive melody, which they accompanied with strident screams of "Roll out the bare ul." When I thought that this new attack on my sensibilities had reached the threshold of tolerance, Daddy, who had been watching me intently, leaped up and began to slam his feet on the floor and join them in that awful song. Daddy has a terrible voice for singing. It rasps. But his voice was the least of it; it was his behavior that was so mortifying. I wanted to turn my head away, but the vice held it fast. For a man of such natural dignity to so debase himself, and that man my own father! This was, of course, just the response Daddy was looking for. When they had finished their gross display, I begged for a moment's reprieve. Daddy dismissed the band and returned the accordion player his cowboy hat. "Don't work him too hard, until we have some idea of his breaking point," the doctor advised. "Besides, I'd like to see the intern just a minute, if you'll excuse me. The photographs gave me an idea: thre are some patients in the hospital..." "Have you thought of anything, Dennis?" "In a way, yes. Is Bruno still around?" "He should be downstairs," "If he were to tell me about the things he enjoys -- the very worst things -- in the long run he might think of more horrors than you. They seem to come naturally to him." "Good idea. I'll send for him." "Roxanna, too, if she's down there. I remember how she watched me at the boxing match. She'd be able to help you quite a lot." As Daddy left the room, the docIF tor returned, escorting a caravan of litters. Photographs are no equivalent for the real thing. I t went on that way for four hours, and every minute seemed worse than the one before. Bruno had a limitless imagination, especially when it was abetted by alcohol and his wife. He told me about his favorite fight to begin with. He told me what he would like to do with pets, and what he would like to do, if he had more time. Then he discoursed on the mysteries of love, a subject on which Rocky, too, was eloquent. After two hours of these and other pleasures, I asked to have some coffee. Rocky left for it and returned with a steaming mug from which I took one greedy swallow before I realized it was not coffee. Rocky had remembered how I felt about blood. When I had been revived with smelling salts, Daddy brought in more entertainers. They had come to the hospital directly after their last fight at the Armory. For some reason, most of what happened after that point I can no longer remember. f X W e were out on the tile terrace of the hospital, Daddy, Julie, and I. Below us the Mississippi was a pool of utter blackness and unknown extent. It was an hour after sunset, and the moon had not yet risen. The only light came from the North, where the great auroral floodlight swept out from the horizon across the constellations. "Five minutes," Daddy announced nervously. In five minutes radio stations all over the world would begin to broadcast my performance of the night before. I had heard an aural equivalent of my electroencephalograms, and I wasn't worried. In a war based on esthetics, that recording was a doomsday machine. "Does your head still hurt?" Julie asked, brushing a feather-light hand over my bandages. "Only when I try to remember last night." "Let me kiss the hurt away." "Three minutes," Daddy announced, "and stop fhat. You're making me nervous." Julie straightened her blouse, which was made of some wonderful. sheer, crinkly nylon. I had really begun to admire some of the uses of clothing. We watched the aurora. All over the city, lights had been turned off. Everyone, the whole world, was watching the aurora. "What will you do now that you're High Cathode?" Tulie asked, to make conversation. "In a few minutes the revolution should be over. I don't think I'd like administrative work. Not after this," Daddy said. "You're going to resign?" "As soon as they let me. I've got the itch to paint some more. Did you know I paint? I did a self-portrait once that's over my desk. I think it's pretty good. In any case, it's traditional for retired generals to paint. And then I might write my memoirs. I've picked a title for them: The Esthetic Revolution" "Ten seconds," I said. We watched the northern skyline. The aurora was a curtain of bluish light across which bands and streamers of intense whiteness danced and played. At first you couldn't notice any difference. The spectacle glimmered with the same rare beauty that has belonged to it from time immemorial, but tonight its beauty was that of a somber Dies Irae , played just for us. Then one of the white bands that was shooting up from the horizon disappeared, like an electric light being switched off. It seemed unnaturally abrupt, but I couldn't be sure. For a long while nothing more happened. But when five of the arcing lights snapped out of the sky at the same moment, I knew that the Masters were beginning their exodus. "Elephantiasis, I'll bet." "What's that, Dennis?' "The picture you showed me. I can remember it very clearly." The auroral display was less bright by half when they came to the hillbilly band. I turned on the radio just to be sure. Through all the blasts and shrieks and whistles of my neural patterns, there was an unmistakable rhythm of Oom-pahpah, Oom-pah-pah. When the broadcast came to Rocky's unspeakable potion, there was a tremendous blast across the heavens. For an instant the entire sky was stained white. The white faded. The aurora was only a dim blue-white shadow in the north. There was hardly a trace of beauty in it. It flickered meaninglessly in random patterns. The Masters had left Earth. They j S#S###N Great Science-Fiction Stories and Exciting Science-Fact Articles in May issue contains Explosions in Space .by Ben Bova, The Alien Psyche by Tom Purdom, The Effectives by Zenna Henderson -- and many more. Don't miss it! # IF The Place Where Readers And Editor Meet... Dear Editor : I quit buying If a couple of years ago because most of the stuff printed in it was second best. Now it's the best science-fiction magazine on the market. What happened? I just read the first installment of Star child and, knowing me, I will probably miss the other two installments. But I'll try not to. It's starting out to read like many of the old-time novels. That's what makes it so interesting. A lot of science fiction is becoming dull and boring. It seems most of the writers are of the mind that whatever they write should be reasonably able to come true. Which is fine if you want to be a forecaster. Me, I like my science fiction unbelievable and with all kinds of impossibilities like spacelings and pyropods. I'm in complete accord with Mr. John Cochran and his wishes to have good science fiction brought to television. I'm sick of having to defend science fiction novels to all my friends who don't read it, after they've seen some monster movie. But how do we go about it? Mr. Cochran suggests writing the networks. I don't think that would work simply because all of us good-intentioned people won't write. We'll all sit back and think the other one is doing it... or we'll think no one is doing it and we won't want to be the only one. There must be someone out there in readerland who has the perfect solution in his mind... so please write to If and let's see what can be done to further good sf on TV. When are you going to have more Cordwainer Smith and his wonderful underpeople stories? Will they ever be put in a novel? I can't seem to get enough of them. Now, if you have the time could you answer a few questions for me? If a would-be writer sent you a story with a good plot, etc., but it was not well written, what would you do? There must be all kinds of people like myself!) who have over developed imaginations, but lack the special talent it takes to put it down on paper. Don't suggest a writing school Not only do I not have the time but my work keeps me moving from month to month and I never know where I might be tomorrow. Besides, sometimes I'm convinced I'm too stupid to learn anything any more -- things like spelling, sentence structure and all the things it takes to be a good writer. Or more likely the truth is I'm just too lazy. -- Ramona Alderson, Box #, Kneeland, California.  What happened? Well, for one thing -- a lot of hard work happened! Cordwainer Smith has gone from underpeople to Down Under people for a while -- he's on a research sabbatical among the aborigines in New Zealand. But he'll be fcack in production before long, and when he is we'll try to get him back in . What to do with a story that has a good idea but no literary skill? You've put your finger on the hardest problem of them all. (Fortunately for an editor's peace of mind, it doesn't happen often -- most people, by the time they have anything to say in the first place, can usually manage to say it in a presentable way.) All we really can do when it does happen, though, is say : Don't be "too lazy". Do learn your skills. Do work at writing... Sometimes it works. At least three of today's best sf writers started out terrible and gradually, painfully, learned their craft. -- The Editor.    Dear Editor: I agree whole-heartedly that you should enlarge the most exciting part of If, namely Hue  Cry. Why don't you use microscopic print, such as they did in the days of This would probably appease those who enjoy the fiction more than the lettercol. You'd get more in the same amount of space. You did use smallprint letters before Farnham's Freehold pushed Hue  Cry out for three issues. Why not go back? Being a relative newcomer to the world of sf magazines (they're awfully hard to find out here), I looked forward with mixed emotions to my first Retief story. Then when I read it, I couldn't make heads nor tails of what was up. From then on I skipped the Retief tales, wondering why you were so proud of having all of his adventures in , exclusively. But the other day I bought a collection of Retief stories and after reading the first one, I understood what Retief was all about. Then I went back and eagerly devoured all the other Retief stories I had accumulated, and now I easily see why you are so proud of yourselves. (It was your recent Laumer serial that gave me the idea that the Retief series might be worth reading.) Your covers: The December '# cover was even better (believe it or not) than the October '# cover was bad. These were your extremes, covering an unbelievable range, for #. Or any other times, for that matter. I've never seen a better cover than the one on the December issue. Well, I guess I've been a pain in the neck long enough. You may find it hard to believe after all this, but I like your mags better than the others. Well, at least most of the time. -- Danny Hughes,# Nolen Drive, Indianapolis, Indiana #.  Small print? Good idea! -- The Editor .    Dear Editor: On the editorial page of your December, # issue you say, "In every issue of IF we run a 'first' story by someone who has never IF before appeared in a professional magazine. This months is L. D. Ogle's The Heat Racers , a fresh and through that magazine page by page and I didn't find any story by L. D. Ogle called The Heat Racers. Any explanations? Answering John D. Cochran in the same issue: It's my firm belief that so-called science fiction in TV and movies is not science fiction. They are really just plain old horror movies, although I do agree with you that Outer Limits comes close. It is also my opinion that the reason these are horror shows is the basic evil of man showing. As you can see, they always show the alien as an enemy. Every monster is out to kill people and to destroy our cities. I think this is the basic emotion of man coming through. How do you think the great civilizations of the past became so? By slavery and murder -- by the same basic survival pattern of an animal, that the strong shall survive by feeding upon the weak. I can just see what would happen now if we met beings from another planet. At first fear and an attempt to destroy them. Then, if we find we are stronger, we will move in and push them around -- just as the American Indian was treated. What I am waiting for is that d.y when we meet a civilization that is really peaceful, but after we make a try at showing our superiority they slap us down as we do a small child. They tell us to get back into our playpen until we are mature enough to come out. -- Henry K. Allen, # Farmers Avenue, Tempe, Arizona #.  Well, actually those ancient civilizations didn't really get powerful because they held slaves. It was just that slavery was the best way available of organizing energy then, of keeping the populace alive and creating a surplus of available effort for state purposes. We do things better now... or anyway, differently... Explanation of what happened to the Ogle story? Well, actually, we got lost in our time machine. We wer. thinking of the next issue. December's first-time-in-print author was Larry Niven, with The Coldest Place. (And this month's is John McCallum, a Canadian fireman, with Our Martian Neighbors.) -- The Editor.    Dear Editor: Ever since I subscribed to If in June, I've liked most of the stories, the features and the magazine itself. I hope If never goes large-size. I hope also that If avoids the advertisements that clutters others. If should be a special, distinctive magazine -- the only monthly to come out bi-monthly (in September), the publisher of Retief, the only magazine I know that has a new author presented every month. The recent stories I've liked best have been The Slaves of Gree , The Prince and the Pirate , The Castle of Light , Rescue Mission, The Hounds of Hell, The Perfect People, When Time Was New , At the Top of the World and Pig in a Pokey -- but they're all good. (Incidentally, The Coldest Place has been disproved. The back of Mercury has just been discovered to be # degrees Fahrenheit.) More Cordwainer Smith stories would be good. I like Hue  Cry and the editorials. If's a good magazine ! -- Charles Obler, Box # Valleybrook Road, Venetia, Pennsylvania #. Dear Editor: Pm writing this letter in the hope their plan to cancel The Outer Limits. This is the only true series on TV directed totally to sf, without the typical no-plot monster stories. The episodes have mostly very weak plots aixd very few times do they come from actual stories written by sf authors. If all science-fiction fans sent in Cuter Limits on the air, then they would have to turn our way. -- Tom Stratmoen, # North Salem, Ar   Dear Editor: I wonder whether someone could help me with the name of a novel I read some time ago. The plot centered around an extremely powerful, jet black man-shaped being which was virtually invulnerable and functioned as a nemesis of evil. It left frosted footprints and was apparently a sort of energy sump. -- J. #. Alyea, # Drury Lane, Cape Girardeau, Missouri #.    Dear Editor: For some time the main way to communicate with other fans was only by letter but now, in the past decade or so, a more personal method of correspondence became available and small groups began to quietly employ it to exchange their ideas. This was the tape recorder, of course -- the nearest thing and best thing to a telephone conversation. My recorder holds any size reel up to seven inches, dual or full track monophonic, with speeds of # and # i.p.s. Please let me know you're there, so we can get something going ! -- Roger Alan Cox, # Oakland Avenue, Augusta, Georgia #.    Dear Editor: Does anyone Out There know if Andre Norton has had any mag stories other than Mousetrap in #, and if so what their titles, magazines and dates were? By the way, how about getting Miss Norton to serialize her excellent stories in , and maybe a few from Hal Clement? -- Jack Baldwin, # North Alison Street, Santa Barbara, California #.  Andre Norton? We'd like that. Hal Clement? Well, how about next month? -- The Editor .    That's about all we can get in this time. Back next month with more letters, if we can find the room... and with some stories that are going to squeeze that room pretty tight, come to think of it. First there's the conclusion of John Brunner's The Altar at Asconel... then there's a #-o-n-g novelette by Hal Clement called Raindrop (you'll like Raindrop! It's a great, orbiting globe of water out in space)... and what else we'll have room for, only time and the printers will tell. Then comes June, beginning Skylark DuQuesne (yes, it was worth waiting for!) Then July has more of the Skylark, plus another #-o-n-g novelette by a new collaboration team that we think will make their mark in science fiction. The name of the story: Research Alpha. The names of the writers : James H. Schmitz and A. E. Van Vogt. Also, there are assorted Fritz Leibers and Keith Laumers to go in somewhere, and -- well, wait and see! -- The Editor . IFif you want to keep your copy of Galaxy intact for permanent possession! Why mutilate a good thing? But, by the same token... if you're devotee enough to want to keep your copies in mint condition, you ought to subscribe. You really ought to. For one thing, you get your copies earlier. For another, you're sure you'll get them! Sometimes newsstands run out -- the mail never does. (And you can just put your name and address on a plain sheet of paper and mail it to us, at the address below. We'll know what you mean... provided you enclose your check!) In the past few years Galaxy has published the finest stories by the finest writers in the field Bester, Heinlein, Pohl, Asimov, Sturgeon, Leiber and nearly everyone else. In the next few years it will go right on, with stories that are just as good... or better. Don't miss any issue of Galaxy. You can make sure you won't. Just subcribe today. (lf, on the other hand, your habit is to read them once and go on to something new please feel free to use the coupon! It's for your convenience, not ours.) Enter my subscription for the New Giant #-page Galaxy , per # ,ssucs v m foreign postage) (U. S. Edition only) for: M # Issues (a) #... # Issues (tv #... # Issues (tv #...  Name City p Address Zone State  Seated, #. to r. : Bennett Cerf, Faith Baldwin, Bergen Evans, Photo by Philippe Halsmart Bruce Catton, Mignon G. Eberhart, John Caples, J. D. Ratcliff. Standing: Mark Wiseman, Max Shulman, Rudolf Flesch, Red Smith, Rod Serling. "We're looking for people who want to write" By Gordon Carroll Director, Famous Writers School; Former editor, Reader's Digest, Time, Inc., Coronet If you want to write, my colleagues and I would like to test your writing aptitude. We'll help you find out if you can be trained to become a successful writer. Three years ago, we started the Famous Writers School to help people who want to write acquire the skill and craftsmanship it takes to break into print. Over many months, we poured everything we knew about writing into a new kind of professional training course, which you take at home and in your free time. The course begins with the fundamentals of good writing upon which every writing career must be built. Then you get advanced training in the specialty of your choice -- Fiction, Non-Fiction, Advertising or Business Writing. Each of your writing assignments is examined by instructors who are themselves professional writers. Your instructor spends up to two hours analyzing your work. He blue-pencils corrections right on it -- much as an editor does with established writers. Then he returns it to you with a long personal letter of advice and specific recommendations. Our School is young. Yet students, many still in training, have sold their work to more than # publications. Writing Aptitude Test offered To find out if you too can benefit from this training, send for the School's revealing Aptitude Test. If you test well, or offer other evidence of writing ability, you may enroll. However, there is no obligation to do so. j Famous Writers School j Dept. #, Westport, Connecticut j I want to know if I have writing aptitude, j Please mail me, free, your Writing Aptitude j Test and #-page illustrated brochure. mi . Mrs Age Miss (please print) Street City County... State Zip Code... , j The School is accredited by Accrediting : Commission, National Home Study Council. MAY #  #c Hal (Jeiiieiil lrviii!j E. (,o, Jr. ConcludingWorlds of the finest in science fiction Don't delay -- send in your subscription order today of IF delivered to your door, bringing you stories by ail your favorites in science fiction! His celebrated Retief stories and others appear regularly in IF -- fast-moving, comic yarns of diplomatic skullduggery out on the frontiers of the stars! still to come! And coming soon -- Fourth and greatest of the immortal "Skylark" stories, his memorable serials! Send in your order today and we will send you the next newsstand price. But act now! Use this order blank or order by letter -- but don't delay! IF -- Subscription Department #I Hudson Street. New York, N. Y. # Yes, send me the next # issues of IF! I enclose #. I  New  Renewal I Name I Address I City State Zip No J (Outside of N. and S. America add # for postage) Vol. #, No. # fndwik oM, BtEfoF Sol Cohort, Pubihhor DIano Sutthfoii, Aaociafo Ecfffor David Porfon, ProducHon Mgr, Mavlt Fkhor, Subs, Mgr, Noveurm SfUM, -- Concfotfea P publMied monthly by Gaicncy Pwbilihing Corporafion, Robert M. Gvion, President, Vol. #, No. #. Main Offioet #I Hudson Street, Horn YoHc #, New York. #c per copy. Subscriptions # issues # In the United Slates, Canada, AAexioo, South America and Central America and U.S. possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and of oddMoocA malting oMoes. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All rights incledlng tronslotfons reserved. AM material submitted must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelope. The publisher assumes no responsibitty lor unsolicited materioL All stories ore Ikfiofi, and ony simllorily between oharaclem and actual persoos b coincidental. Printed hi the U. #. A. by Ae Guinn Company, New York #, N, Y When is T he cloud is still no bigger than a man's hand, but there it is: die time is rapidly drawing near when man will be able to replace his damaged parts widi artifacts -- a little later, build in better parts than nature ever designed -- later still, instill in his own body equipment to handle functions nature never dreamed of. A most interesting and enjoyable book. The SemUArtificiak Man by Harold M. Schmeck, Jr. (Walker), makes it clear just how close we are to at least the first of these goals. There are scores of persons now alive who ought in all reason to be dead -- persons whose kidneys have ceased to function, whose hearts have given out or gone into uncontrolled fibrillation, whose lungs have stopped supplying the blood with oxygen. ft is not science fiction but fact that in all of these cases doctors, engineers, chemists and physicists, working together, have managed to produce machines to take up the work that the so-called "vital organs" of the body no longer can do. The machines do not work every time. Sometimes they do sot even work iudcfinitefy. But it k a twentieth century miracle that they work at all. For those kidney patients in the Pacific Northwest who, twice a week. He on a hospital bed and watch their own blood flow oat into a machine composed of pumps and cellophane IF  Editoriai m Robot  sheets, filtering out the poisons their own organs are helpless to deal with, the measures of these accoinplishments of medicine are, literally, life or death. T hat's an fact, not fancy -- for further information, see Schmeck's book, or your daily paper. But there's more to the story than that. It is only a step from replacing a damaged organ to building one that is better -- not a repair but an improvement. The human lung is a marvelous creation, but it is liable to pneumonia, cancer, emphysema and a hundred other ailments; and it is quite helpless to deal with even so simple a problem as extracting oxygen from the plentiful supply in seawater. It is not l;:.rd to imagine that some sort of electreHfik lungsubstitute will one day come off the drawing boards and into use -- capable of keeping our blood oxygenated by extracting the vital gas from air, from water, or if need be from its own built-in storage supplies if we choose to wander for a time in empty space. There is even a name for the sort of hybrid creature, half man and half machine, that will use these super-prosthetics: the "cyborg", or cybernetic organism. WThat would you call them? Men? Or robots? The chances are that the time will come when it's going to be hard to Secrets entrusted to a few be generally told -- things you ought to know. Great truths are dangerous to some -- but factors for personal power and accomplishment in the hands of those who understand them. Behind the tales of die miracles and mysteries of the ancients, lie centuries of their secret probing into nature's laws -- their amazing discoveries of the hidden prpcesses of mans mind, and the mastery of life's problems. Once shroud ed in mystery to avoid their destruc don by mass fear and ignorance, these facts remain a useful heritage for the diousands of men and women who nrivately use them in their homes towy. The Rosicrucians (not a religious UBe Rosicrucians c organizadon) an age-old brotherhood of learnings ve preserved this secret wisdom in their archives for centuries. They now invite you to share the practical helpfulness of their teachings. Write today for a uee copy of the book, The Mastery of Life." Within its Images may lie a new life of opportunity for you. Address: Scribe t.B.N, I Scribe t.B.N. I I San Jose, California i I Please send me theyVe# book. Tin Mastery I I of Life, wfaidi explains how I may learn to j I use my hicaldes and powers of mind.  i I I Name i ! I I Address ' IF  Nov.lla Harmless little RaindrepI If was life or death to one human, and feast or famine to the racfl I iCTt's not very comfortable footX ing, but at least you can't fall off." Even through the helmet phones, Silbert's voice carried an edge that Bresnahan felt sure was amused contempt. The younger man saw no point in trying to hide his fear; he was no veteran of space and knew that it would be silly to pretend otherwise "My mind admits that, but my stomach isn't so sure," he replied. "It can't decide whether things wffl be better when I can't see so fat, or whether I should just give up and take a running dive back there." His metal-clad arm gestured toward the station and its comfortable spin hanging half a mile away. Technically the wheel-shaped structure in its synchronous orbit was above the two men, but it took careful observing to decide which way was really "up." "You wouldn't make it," Silbert replied. "If you had solid footing for a jump you might get that far, since twenty feet a second would take you away from here permanently. But speed and velocity are two different animals. I wouldn't trust even myself to make such a jump in the right direction -- and I know the vectors better than you do by a long shot. Which way would you jump? Right at the station? Or ahead of it, or behind it? And which is ahead and which is behind? Do you know?" "I know which is ahead, since I can see it move against the star background, but I wouldn't know which way to jump. I think it should be ahead, since the rotation of this overgrown raindrop gives us less linear speed than the station's orbit; but I wouldn't know how far ahead," Silbert said. "Good for you." Bresnahan noted what he hoped was approval in the spaceman's tone as well as in his words. "You're right as far as you committed yourself, and I wouldn't dare go any farther myself. In any case, jumping off this stuff is a losing game." "I can believe that. Just walking on it makes me feel as though I were usurping a Biblical prerogative." The computerman's arm waved again, this time at the surface underfoot, and he tried to stamp on it at the same moment. The latter gesture produced odd results. The material, which looked a little like clear jelly, gave under the boot but bulged upward all around it. The bulge moved outward very slowly in all directions, the star patterns reflected in the suH face writhing as it passed. As thK bulge's radius increased its height lessened, as with a ripple spreading on a pond. It might have been an ultra-slow motion picture of such a ripple, except that it did not travel far enough. It died out less than two yards from Bresnahan's foot, though it took well over a minute to get that far. "Yeah, I know what you mean. Walking on water was kind of a divine gift, wasn't it? Well, you can always remember we're not right on the water. There's the pressure film, even if you can't see it." "That's so. Well, let's get on to the lock. Being inside this thing can't be much worse than walking around on its surface, and I have a report to make up." Silbert started walking again at this request, though the jellylike response of the water to his footfalls made the resulting gait rather odd. He kept talking as he led the way. "How come that friend of yours can't come down from the station and look things over for himself? Why should you have to give the dope to him second-hand? Can't he take weightlessness?" "Better than I can, I suspect," replied Bresnahan, "but he's not my friend. He's my boss, and pays the bills. Mine not to reason why, mine but to act or fry. He already knows as much as most people do about Raindrop, here. What more he expects to get from me I'm not sure. I just hope that what I can find to teU him makes him happy. I take it this is the lock." T hey had reached a disk of metal sorr thirty feet in diameter, projecting about two feet from the surface of the satellite. It continued below the surface for a distance which refraction made hard to estimate. Its water line was marked by a ring of black, rubbery-looking material where the pressure film adhered to it. The men had been quite close to it when they landed on Raindrop's surface a few minutes before, but it is hard to make out landscape details on a water surface under a black, starfilled sky; the reflection underfoot is not very different from the original above. A five-mile radius of curvature puts the reflected images far enough down so that human depth perception is no help. Waves betrayed themselves, of course, and might have shown the lock's location -- but under a gravitational acceleration of about a tenth of an inch per second squared, the urface waves raised by space-suit boots traveled much more slowly than the men who wore them. And with their high internal energy losses they didn't get far enough to be useful. As a result, Bresnahan had not realized that the lock was at hand until they were almost upon it. Even Silbert, who had known about where they would land and could orient himself with Raindrop's rotation axis by celestial reference features, did not actually see it until it was only a few yards away. "This is the place, all right," he acknowledged. "That little plate near the edge is the control panel. We'll use the manhole; no need to open the main hatch as we do when it's a matter of cargo." He bent over -- slowly enough to keep his feet on the metal -- and punched one of the buttons on the panel he . had pointed out. A tiny light promptly flashed green, and he punched a second button. A yard-square trap opened inward, revealing the top of a ladder. Silbert seized the highest rung and pulled himself through the opening head first -- when a man weighs less than an ounce in full space panoply it makes little real difference when he elects to traverse a ladder head downward. Bresnahan followed and found himself in a cylindrical chamber which took up most of the inside of the lock structure. It could now be seen that this must extend some forty feet into the body of Raindrop. At the inner end of the compartment, where curved and flat walls met, a smaller chamber was partitioned off. Silbert dove in this direction. "This is a personnel lock," he remarked. "We'll use it; it saves flooding the whole chamber." "We can use ordinary spacesuits?" "Might as well. If we were going to stay long enough for real work, we'd change -- there is local equipment in those cabinets along the wall. Spacesuits are safe enough, but pretty clumsy when it comes to fine manipulation." "For me, they're clumsy for anything at all." "Well, we can change if you want; but I understood that this was to be a fairly quick visit, and that you I IF were to get a report back pronto. Or did I misread the tone your friend Weisanen was using?" "I guess you didn't, at that. Well go as we are. It still sounds queer to go swimming in a spacesuit." "No queerer than walking on water Come on, the little lock will hold both of us." The spaceman opened the door manually -- there seemed to be no power controls involved -- and the two entered a room some five feet square and seven high. Operation of the lock seemed simple; Silbert closed the door they had just used and turned a latch to secure it, then opened another manual valve on the other side of the chamber, A jet of water squirted in and filled the space in half a minute. Then he simply opened a door in the same wall with the valve, and the spacesuited figures swam out. This was not as bad as walking on what had seemed like nothingness. Bresnahan was a good swimmer and experienced free diver, and was used to being suspended in a medium where one couldn't see very far. The water was clear, though not as clear as that sometimes found in Earth's tropical seas. There was no easy way to tell just how far vision could reach, since nothing familiar and of known size was in view except for  the lock they had just quitted. There were no fishes -- Raindrop's owners were still debating the advisability of establishing them there -- and none of tbt jant life was familiar, at least to Bresnahan. He knew that the big sere of water had been seeded by "artifidaT e forms -- algae and bacteria whose genetic patterns had been altered to let them live in a "sea" so different from Earth's. n aindrop was composed of the iV nuclei of several small comets, or rather what was left of those nuclei after some of their mass had been used in reaction motors to put them into orbit about the earth. TTiey had been encased in a polymer film sprayed on to form a pressure seal, and then melted by solar energy, concentrated by giant foil mirrors. Traces of the original wrapping were still around, but its function had been replaced by one of the first tailored life forms to be established after the mass was liquid. This was a modification of one of the gelatin-capsule algae, which now encased all of Raindrop in a microsccically Hhm film able to heal itself after small meteoroid punctures, and strong enough to maintain about a quarter of an atmosphere's pressure on the contents. The biological engineer who had done that tailoring job still regarded it as his professional masterpiece. The methane present in the origmal comet material had been oxidized by other bacteria to water and carbon dioxide, the oxygen of course coming from normal photosynthesis. A good deal of the ammonia was still present, and furnished the principal reason why genetic tailoring was still necessary on life forms being transplanted to the weightless aquarium. The men were drifting very slowIF ly away from the lock, though they bad stopped swimming, and the younger one asked, "How do we find our way back here if we get out of sight?" "The best trick is not to get out of sight. Unless you want to examine the core, which I've never done, you'll see everything there is to see right here. There is sonic and magnetic gear -- homing equipment -- tn your suit if you need it, though I haven't checked you out on its use. You'd better stay with me. I can probably show you what's needed. Just what points do you think Weisanen wants covered?" "Well, he knows the general physical setup -- temperature, rotation, general current pattern, the nature of the skin. He knows whafs be planted here at various times; but ifs hard to keep up to date on what's evolved since. These tailored life forms aren't very stable toward mutation influences, and a new-stocked aquarium isn't a very stable ecologies environment He'll want to know what's here now in tiie way of usable plants, I suppose. You inow the Agency sold Raindrop to a private ooncem after the last election. The importance of basic research, hvA Aey would sort of like a profit to ttpori to the sftockholders as wdl. "Amen. Fm a stockholder." "Oh? Well, it docs cost something to keep supply ships coming up here, and -- " ii'Troe enough. Then this Weis-L anen character represents the new owners? I wonder if I should think of him as my boss or iny enaployee." "I think he is one of them." "Hmph. No wonder." "No wonder what?" "He and his wife are the first people I ever knew to treat a space flight like a run in a private yacht, I suppose that someone who could buy Raindrop wouldn't be bothered by a Httlc expense like a private Phoenix rocket" "I suppose not. Of course, it isn't as bad as it was in the days of chemical motors, when it took a big commercial concern or a fair-sized government to launch a manned spaceship." "Maybe not; but with fourteen little unusual to find a really rich individual, in the old Ford-Carnegie tradition. Most big concerns are me. "Wefl, I guess Weisanen owns a bigger piece of Raindrop than you do. Anyway, he's my boss, whether he's yours or not and he wants a repent from me, and I can't sea much to rqport on. What life is tiiere in this place besides the stuff forming the surface skin?" "Oh, lots. You just aren't looking carefully enough. A lot of it is microscopic, of course; there are fakiy ordinary varieties of pond-scum drifting aH around us. They're the main reason we can see only a couple of hundred yards, and they carry on most of the photosynthesis. Then are lots of non-photosynthetic orgtfip isms -- bacteria -- producing carbon dioxide just as in any balanced eoII ology on Earth, though this place is a long way from being balanced. Sometimes the algae get so thick you can't see twenty feet, sometimes the bacteria get the upper hand. The balance keeps hunting around even when no new forms are appearing or being introduced. We probably brought a few new bacteria in with us on our suits just now; whether any of them can survive with the ammonia content of Raindrop this high I don't know, but if so the ecology will get another nudge. "There are lots of larger plants, too -- mostly modifications of the big seaweeds of Earth's oceans. The lock behind us is overgrown with them, as you can see -- you can look more closely as we go back -- and a lot of them grow in contact with the outer skin, where the light is best. Quite a few are free-floating, but of course selection works fast on those. There are slow convection currents, because of Raindrop's size and rotation, which exchange water between the illuminated outer regions and the darkness inside. Free-floating weeds either adapt to long periods of darkness or die out fast. Since there is a good deal of hard radiation near the surface, there is also quite a lot of unplanned mutation over and above the regular genetailoring products we are constantly adding to' the pot. And since most of the organisms here have short life spans, evolution goes on rapidly." "Weisanen knows all that perfectly well," replied Bresnahan. "What he seems to want is a snapshot -- a report on just what the present spectrum of life forms is like." "I've summed it up. Anything more detailed would be wrong next week. You can look at the stuff around us -- there. Those filaments which just tangled themselves oa your equipment clip are a good example, and there are some bigger ones if you want there -- just in reach. It would take microscopic study to show how they differ from the ones you'd have gotten a week ago or a year ago, but they're different. There will be no spectacular change unless so much growth builds up inside the surface film that tha sunlight is cut down seriously. Then the selection factors will change and a radically new batch -- probably of scavenger fungi -- will develop and spread. It's happened before. We'va gone through at least four cycles of that sort in the three years Fva worked here." B resnahan frowned thoughtfully, though the facial gesture was not very meaningful inside a space helmet. "I can see where this isn't going to be much of a report," he remarked. "It would have made more sense if you'd brought a plankton net and some vacuum jars and brought up specimens for him to look over himself," replied Silbert. "Or wouldn't they mean anything to him? Is he a biologist or just a manager?" "I couldn't say." "How come? How can you woik for him and not know that much?" "Working for him is something new. I've worked for Raindrop ever since I started working, but I didn't IF meet Weisanen until three weeks go. I haven't been with him more than two or three hours' total time ince. I haven't talked with him during those hours; I've listened while he told me what to do." "You mean he's one of those highhanded types? What's your job, anyway?" "There's nothing tough or unpleasant about him; he's just the boss. I'm a computer specialist --  programming and maintenance, oi was until he picked me to come up here to Raindrop with him and his wife. What my job here will be, youHl have to get from him. There are computers in the station, I noticed, but nothing calling for fulltime work from anyone. Why he picked me I can't guess. I should tiiink though, that he'd have asked you rather than me to make this report, since whatever I am I'm no biologist." "Well, neither am I. I just work here." Bresnahan stared in astonishment. "Not a biologist? But aren't you in efaarge of this place? Haven't you been the local director for three years, in charge of planting the new He forms that were sent up, and reporting what happened to them, and how Raindrop was holding together, and all -- ?" "All is right. Fm the bo's'un tight and the midshipmite and the crew of the captain's gig. I'm the boss because I'm the only one here full time; but that doesn't make me a biologist. I got this job because I have a decently high zero-gee tolerance and had had experience in space. I was a space-station handyman before I came here." "Then what sort of flumdiddle is going on? Isn't there a professional anywhere in this organization? I've heard stories of the army using biochemists for painters and bricklayers for clerks, but I never really believed them. Besides, Raindrop doesn'v belong to an army -- it isn't even a government outfit any more. It's being run by a private outfit which I assumed was hoping to make a profit out of it. Why in blazes is there no biologist at what has always been supposed to be a biological research station, devoted to finding people like what little there is to eat?" g ilbert's shrug was just discernible from outside his suit. "No one ever confided in me," he replied. "I was given a pretty good briefing on the job when I first took it over, but that didn't include an extension course in biology or biophysics. As far as I can tell they've been satisfied with what I've done. Whatever they wanted out of Raindrop doesn't seem to call for high-caliber professionals on the spot. I inspect to make sure no leaks too big for the algae to handle show up, I plant any new life forms they send up to be established here, and I collect regularly and send back to Earth the samples of what life there is. The last general sampling was nearly a month ago, and another is due in a few days. Maybe your boss could make do with that data -- or if you like I can offer to make the regular sampling run right away instead ol at the scheduled time. After an, he may be my boss too instead of die other way around, so I should bo reporting to him." Bresnahan thought for a moment "All right," he said. "I'm in no position to make either a decent collection or a decent report, as things stand. Let's go back to the station, tell him what's what, and let him decide what he does want. Maybe it's just a case of a new boss not knowing the ropes and trying to find out." "I'd question that, somehow, but can't think of anything better to do. Come on." Silbert swam back toward the lock from which they had emerged only a few minutes before. They had drifted far enough from it in that time so that its details had faded to a greenish blur, but there was no trouble locating the big cylinder. The door they had used was still open. Silbert pulled himself through, lent Bresnahan a hand in doing likewise, closed the portal, and started a small pump. The pressure head was only the quarter atmosphere maintained by the tension of the alga skin, and emptying the chamber of water did not take long. The principal delay was caused by Bresnahan's failure to stand pcctly still; with gravity only a little over one five-thousandths Earth normal, it didn't take much disturbance to slosh some water away from the bottom of the lock where the pump intake was located. Silbert waited for some of it to sete, but lacked the patience lo watt foT it all. When he opened die door into the larg lock chambo: the men were accompanied tluroug it by several large obules of boiling liquid. "Wasteful, but helps a bit," remarked the spaceman as he opened the outside portal and the two were wafted dirough it by the escaping vapor. "Watch out -- hang on there. You don't have escape velocity, but you'd be quite a while getting back to the suriace if you let yourself blow away." He seized a convenient limb of esnahan's space armor as the younger man drifted by, and since he was well anchored himself to the top rung of the ladder was able to arrest the other's flight. Carefully they stepped away from the hatch, Silbert touching die closing button widi one toe as he passed it, and looked for the orbiting station. This, of course, was directly overhead. The same temptation which Bresnahan had feh earlier to make a jump for it came back with some force; but Silbert had a safer technique. He took a small tube equipped with peep-sights from the equipment clip at his side and aimed it very carefully at the projecting bid) of the wheel-shaped station -- the only part of the hub visible, since the station's equator was paralld to dial of Raindrop and the structure was therefore edge-on to them. A bright yellow gjow from the target produced a grunt of satisfaction from Silbert, and he fingered a button on the tube. The laser beam, invisible kt the surrounding vacuum, flicked IF on and off in a precisely timed signal pattern which was reported faithfully by the source-return mirror at the target. Another response was almost as quick. Ill A faintly glowing object emerged from the hub and drifted rapidly toward Raindrop, though not quite toward the men. Its details were not clear at first, but as it approached it began to look more and more like a luminous cobweb. "Just a lattice of thin rods, doped with luminous paint for spotting and launched from the station by a spring gun," explained Silbert. "The line connecting it with the station isn't painted, and is just long enough to stop the grid about fifty feet from the water. It's launched with a small backward component relative to the station's orbit, and when the line stops it it will drift toward us. Jump for it when I give the word; you can't miss." Bresnahan was not as certain about the last statement as his companion seemed to be, but braced himself anyway. As the glowing spiderweb approached, however, he saw it was over a hundred feet across and realized that even he could jump straight enough to make contact. When Silbert gave the word, he sprang without hesitation. He had the usual moment of nausea and disorientation as he crossed the few yards to his target. Lacking experience, he had not "balanced" his jump perfectly and as a result made a couple of somersaults en route. This caused him ! lose track of his visual reference points, and with gravity already lacking he suffered the moment cf nearpanic which so many student pilots had experienced before him. Contact with one of the thin rods restored him, however; he gripped it frantically and was himself again. Silbert arrived a split second later and took charge of the remaining maneuvers. These consisted of c lapsing the "spiderweb" -- a matter of half a minute, in spite of its apparent complexity, because of tho ingenuity of its jointing -- and then starting his companion hand-overhand along the nearly invisible cord leading back to the station. The climb called for more coordination that was at first evident; the spacoman had to catch his less experienced companion twice as the latter missed his grip for the line. Had Silbert been going first tte situation might have been serioi. As it was, an extra tug on the rope enabled him to catch up each time with the helpless victim of basii physics. After the second accident, the guide spoke. "All right, don't climb any mMn We're going a little too fast as it k. Just hold on, to the rope now and to me when I give the word. The closing maneuver is a bit tricky, and it wouldn'f be practical to try te teach you the tricks on the spot and first time around." Silbert did have quite a problem. The initial velocities of the tW# men in their jumps for the spiderweb had not, of course, been the correct ones to intercept the station -- ti if it had been practical to count on their being so, the web would have been superfluous. The web's own mass was less than fifty pounds, which had not done much to the sum of those vectors as it absorbed its share of the men's momentum. Consequently, the men had an angular velocity with respect to the station, and they were approaching the latter. T 'o a seventeenth century mathematician, conservation of angular momentum may have been an abstract concept, but to Silbert it was an item of very real, practical, everyday experience -- just as the orbit of a comet is little more than a set of numbers to an astronomer while the orbit of a baseball is sometiling quite different to an outfielder. The problem this time was even worse than usual, partly because of Bresnahan's mass and still more because of his inexperience. As the two approached the station their sidewise motion became evident even to Bresnahan. He judged that they would strike near the rim rf the spinning structure, if they hit it at all, but Silbert had other ideas. Changing the direction of the spin axis by landing at the hub was one thing -- very minor one. Changing the rate of spin by meeting the edge Qould be a major nuisance, since much of the apparatus inside was built on and for Earth and had Earth's gravity taken for granted in its operation. Silbert therefore had no intention of making contact anywhere but at one of the "poles" of station. He was rather in the situation of a yo-yo whose string is winding up on the operator's finger; but he could exercise a little contrcrii br climbing as rapidly as possible "up" the cord toward the structure or allowing himself to slide "down" away from it. He had had plenty of experience, but he was several minutes playing them into a final collision with the entry valve, so dose to the center of mass of the station that the impact could produce only a tiny precession effect. Most of its result was a change in the wheel's orbit about Raindrop, and the whole maneuver had taken such a small fraction of an orbital period that this effect nearly erffset that produced when they had started up the rope. "Every so often," remarked the spaceman as he opened the air lock, "we have to make a small correction in the station orbit; the disturbances set up by entering and leaving get it out of step with Raindrop's rotation. Sometimes I wonder whether ifi worth the trouble to keep the two synchronized." "If the station drifted very far from the lock below, you'd have to jump from the liquid surface, which might be awkward," pointed out the younger man as the closing hatch cut off the starlight. "That's true," admitted the other as he snapped a switch and air started hissing into the small lock chamber. "I suppose there's something to be said for tradition at that. There's the safety light -- " as a green spot suddenly glowed on the wall -- you can open up your suit IF whenever you like. Lookers are in the next room. But you arrived through this lock, didn't you?" "Right. I know my way from here." Five minutes later the two men, divested ot space suits, had "descended" to the rim of the station where weight was normal. Most of this part of the structure was devoted to living space which had never been used, though there were laboratory and communication rooms as well. The living space had been explained to Bresnahan, when he first saw it, three quarters of his time alone at a rather boring job a hundred thousand miles from the nearest company. Earth was badly crowded; not one space or as much privacy. Weinen and his wife had taken over a set of equally sumptuous rooms on the opposite side of the rim, and had been in the process of setting up housekeeping when the two employees had descended to Raindrop's surface a short time before. This had been less than an hour after their arrival with Bresnahan on the shuttle from Earth; Weisanen had wasted no time in issuing his first orders. The two men were prepared to find every sign of disorder when the door to the "headquarters" section opened in response to Albert's touch on the annunciator, but they had reckoned without Mrs. Weisanen. A t their employer's invitation, they entered a room which might have been lived in for a year msfead of an hour. The furniture was good, comfortable, well arranged, and present in quantity which would have meant a visible bulge in a nation's space research budget just for the fuel to lift it away from the earth in the chemical fuel days. Either the Weisanens felt strongly about maintaining the home atmosphere even when visiting, or they planned to stay on the station few quite a while. The official himself was surprise ingly young, according to both Bresnahan's and Silbert's preconceived notions of a magnate. He could hardly have been thirty, and mit have been five years younger. Ho matched Bresnahan's five feet ten of height and looked about the same weight; but while the computerman regarded himself as being in good physical shape, he had to admit the other was far more muscular. Even Silbert's six feet five of height and far from insignificant frame seemed somehow inadequate beside Weisanen'f. "Come in, gentlemen. We felt your return a few minutes ago! I take it you have something to report, Mr. Bresnahan. We did not expect you back quite so soon." Weisanen drew further back from the door and waved the others past him. "What can you tell us?" He closed the door and indicated armchairs. Bresnahan remained on his feet, uneasy at the incompleteness of his report; Silbert sank into the nearest chair. The ofricial also remained standing. "Well, Mr. Bresnahan?" "I have little -- practically nothing -- to report, as far as detailed, quandtative information is concerned," die computerman took the plunge. "We stayed inside the Raindrop only a few minutes, and it was evident that most of the detailed search for life specimens would have to be made with a microscope. I hadn't planned the trip at all effectively. I now understand that there is plankton-collecting apparatus here which Mr. Silbert uses regularly and which should have been taken along if I were to get anything worth showing to you." Weisanen's face showed no change in its expression of courteous interest. "That is quite all right," he said, "I should have made clear that I wanted, not a detailed biological report, but a physical description by a non-specialist of what it is like subjectively down there. I should imagine that you received an adequate impression even during your short stay. Can you give such a description?" Bresnahan's worried expression disappeared, and he nodded affirmatively. "Yes, sir. Fm not a literary expert, but I can tell what I saw." "Good. One moment, please," Weisanen turned toward another door and raised his voice. "Brenda, will you come in here, please? You rfiould hear this," Silbert got to his feet just as the woman entered, and both men acknowledged her greeting. Brenda Weisanen was a full head Aorter than her husband. She was wearing a robe of the sort which might have been seen on any housewtte expecting company; neither man was competent to guess whether it was worth fifty dars or ten times that. The garment tended to focus attention on her face, which would have received it anyway. Her hair and eyebrows were jet black, the eyes themselves gray, and rounded cheeks and chin made the features look almost childish, though she was actually little younger than her husband. She seated herself promptly, saying no more than convention demanded, and the men followed suit. "Please go on, Mr. Bresnahan," Weisanen said. "My wife and I are both greatly interested, for reasons which will be clear shortly." B resnahan had a good visual memory, and it was easy for him to comply. He gave a good verbal picture of the greenish, sunlit haze that had surrounded him -- sunlight differing from that seen under an Earthly lake, which ripples and dances as the waves above refract it He spoke of the silence, which had moved him to keep talking because it was the "quietest" silence he had known, and "didn't sound right." He was interrupted by Silbert at this point; the spaceman explained that Raindrop was not always that quiet. Even a grain-of-dust meteoroid striking the skin set up a shock wave audible throughout the great sphere; and if one were close enough to tbo site of collision, the hiss of water boiling out through the hole for the minute or two needed for the skin to heal could also be heard. It was rather unusual to be able to spend even the short time they had just had IF inside the satellite withcatt hearing either of these sounds. Bresnahan nodded thanks as the other fell silent, and took up the thread of his own description once more. He closed with the only real feature he had seen to describe -- the weed-grown cylinder of the water-to-space lock, hanging in greenish emptiness above the deadblack void which reached down to Raindrop's core. He was almost poetical in spots. The Weisanens listened in flattering silence until he had done, and remained silent for some seconds thereafter. Then the man spoke. "Thank you, Mr. Bresnahan. That was just what we wanted." He turned to his wife. "How does that sound to you, dear?" T he dark head nodded slowly, its gray eyes fastened on some point far beyond the metal walls. "It's fascinating," she said slowly. "Not just the way we pictured it, of course, and there will be changes anyway, but certainly worth seeing. Of course they didn't go down to the core, and wouldn't have seen much if they had. I suppose there is no life, and certainly no natural light, down there." "There is life," replied Silbert. "Non-photosynthetic, of course, but bacteria and larger fungi which live on organic matter swept there from the sunlit parts. I don't know whether anything is actually growing on the core, since I've never gone in that far, but free-floating varieties get carried up to my nets. A good many of those have gone to Earth, along with their descriptions, m my tegular reports." "I know. I've read those reports very carefully, Mr. Silbert," replied Weisanen. "Just the same, one of our first jobs must be to survey that core," his wife said thoughtfully. "Much of what has to be done will depend on conditions down there." "Right." Her husband stood up. "We thank you gentlemen for your word pictures; they have helped a lot. I'm not yet sure of the relation between your station time and that of the Terrestrial time zones, but I have the impression that it s quite late in the working day. Tomorrow we will all visit Raindrop and make a very thorough and more technical examination -- my wife and I doing the work, Mr. Bresnahan assisting us, and Mr. Silbert guiding. Until then -- it has been a pleasure, gentlemen." Bresnahan took the hint and got to his feet, but Silbert hesitated. There was a troubled expression on his face, but he seemed unable or it. "What's the matter, Mr. Silbert? Is there some reason why Raindrop's owners, or their representatives, shouldn't look it over closely? I realize that you are virtually the only person to visit it in the last three years, but I assure you that your job is in no danger." Silbert's face cleared a trifle. "It isn't that," he said slowly. "I know you're the boss, and I wasn't worried about my job anyway. There's just one point -- of course If you may know all about it, but I'd rather be safe, and embarrassed, than responsible for something unfortunate later on. I don't mean to butt into anyone's private business, but Raindrop is essentially weightless." "I know that." "Do you also know that unless you are quite certain that Mrs. Weisanen is not pregnant, she should not expose herself to weightlessness for more than a few minutes at a time?" Both Weisanens smiled. "We know, thank you, Mr. Silbert. Wc will see you tomorrow, in spacesuits, at the big cargo lock. There is much equipment to be taken down to Raindrop." IV T hat closing remark proved to be no exaggeration. As the four began moving articles through the lock the next morning, Silbert decided at first that the Weisanen's furniture had been a very minor item in the load brought up from Earth the day before, and wondered why it had been brought into the station at all if it were to be transferred to Raindrop so soon. Then he began to realize that most of the material he was moving had been around much longer. It had come up bit by bit on the regular supply shuttle over a period of several months. Evidently whatever was going on represented long and careful planning -- and furthermore, whatever was going on represented a major change from the original plans for Raindrop. This worried him, since Silbert had become firmly attached to the notion that the Raindrop plan was an essential step to keeping the human race fed, and he had as good an appetite as anyone. He knew, as did any reasonably objective and well-read adult, how barely the advent of fusion power and gene tailoring had bypassed the first critical point in the human population explosion, by making it literally possible to use the entire surface of the planet either for living space or the production of food. As might have been expected, mankind had expanded to fill even that fairly generous limit in a few generations. A second critical point was now coming up, obviously enough to lived on floating islands of genetailored vegetation scattered over the planet's seas, and the number of these islands was reaching the point where the total sunlight reaching the surface was low enough to threaten collapse of the entire food chain. Theoretically, fusion power was adequate to provide synthetic food for all; but it had been learned the hard way that man's selfishness could be raised to the violence point almost as easily by a threat to his "right" to eat natural -- and tasty -- food as by a threat to his "right" to reproduce without limit. As a matter of fact, the people whom Silbert regarded as more civilized tended to react more strongly to the first danger. Raindrop had been the proposed answer. As soon as useful, edible IF life forms could be tailored to live in its environment it was to be smaller units which could receive sunlight throughout their bulks, and use these as "farms." dut power units, lights, and what looked like prefabricated living quarters sufficient for many fa'nlies did not fit with the idea of breaking Raindrop up. In fact, they did not fit with any sensible idea a all. No one could live on Raindrop, or in it. permanently; there was not enough weight to keep human metabolism balanced. Silbert was very conscious of that factor. He never spent more than a day at a time on his sampling trips, and after each of these he always remained in the norm a Iweight part of. the station for the full number of days speciIt was all very puzzling. And as the day wore on, and more and more material was taken from the low-weight storage section of the station and netted together for the trip to Raindrop, the spaceman grew more puzzled still. He said nothing, however, since he didn't feel quite ready to question the Weisanens on the subject and it was impossible to speak privately to Bresnahan with all the spacesuit radios on the same frequency. A ll the items moved were, of course, marred with their masses, but Silbert made no great effort to keep track of the total tonnage. It was not necessary, since eacn cargo net was loaded as nearly as possible to an even one thousand pounds and it was easy enough to count the nets when the job was done. There were twenty-two nets. A more ticklish task was installing on each bundle a five hundred pound-second solid-fuel thrust cartridge, which had to be set so that its axis pointed reasonably close to the center of mass of the loaded net and firmly enough fastened to maintain its orientation during firing. It was not advisable to get rid of the orbital speed of the loads by "pushing off" from the station; the latter's orbit would have been too greatly altered by absorbing the momentum of eleven tons of material. The rockets had to be used. Silbert, in loading the nets, had made sure that each was spinning slowly on an axis parallel to that of Raindrop. He had also attached each cartridge at the "equator" erf its net. As a result, when the time came to fire it was only necessary to wait beside each load until its rocket was pointing "forward" along the station's orbit, and touch off the fuel. The resulting velocity change did not, in general, exactly offset the orbital speed, but it came close enough for the purpose. The new orbit of each bundle now intersected the surface of Raindrop -- a target which was, after all. ten miles in diameter and only half a mile away. It made no great difference if the luggage were scattered along sixty degrees of the satellite's equatorial zone; moving the bundles to the lock by hand would be no great problem where each one weighed about three and a half ounces. IF With the last net drifting toward the glistening surface of Raindrop, Weisanen turned to die aceman. "What's the best techque to send us after them? Just jump off?' Silbert frowned, thou the expression was not obvious through his face plate. "The best technique, according to back to the rim of the station and spend a couple of days getting our personal chemistry back in balance. We've been weightless for nearly ten hours, with only one short leak when we ate." Weisanen made a gesture of impatience which was much mon visible than Silbert's frown. "Nonsense!" he exchdmed. "People have remained weightless for a couple of weeks at a time wWiout permanent damage." "Without having dieir bones actually turn to rubber, I grant I don't concede there was no more subtle damage done. Pm no biophysicist, I just befieve die tables; they were worked out on die basis of knowledge gained the hard way. I admit they have a big safety factor, and if you consider it really necessary J won't object to staying out for four or five days. But you haven't given us any idea so for why this should be considered an emergency situation." #T Tmmm. So I haven't. All right, AA will you stay out long enough to show Brenda and me how to work the locks below, so we can get the stuff inside?" "Why -- of course -- ii it's that imortant we'll stay and do the work too. But I didn't -- " Sert fell silent as it dawned on him that Weisanen's choice of words meant that he had no intention of explaining just yet what the "emergency" was. Both newcomers must have read the spaceman's mind quite accurately at that point, since even Bresnahan was idile to, but neither of them said anything. Conversadon for the next few mimdes consisted entirely of Silberfi instructions for Aoving off in the proper directicm to reach Raindrop, and how to walk on its notquite-zcro-gravity, jellylike surface after they reached it The trip itsrif was made without incident. Because fast movement on the surface was impossible, several hours wwe spent collecting the scattered bundles and stacking them by the lock. The material could not be placed inside, as most of it had to be assembled before it could go undo water; so for the moment the lesson in lock management was postponed. Weisanen, after some hesion, agreed to Silbert's second request that they return to the station for food and rest. He and his wife watdied with interest the technique of getting back to it. Widi four people instead of two, the velocity-matcWng problem might have been worse, but this turned out not to be the case. Silbert wondered whether it were strictly luck, or whether the Weisanens actually had the skill to plan their jumps properly. He was beginning to suspect that both of them had had previous space experience, and both were certainly well-coordinated physical specimens. According to the tables which had been guiding Silbert's life, the party should have remained in the highweight part of the station for at least eighty hours after their session of zero-gee, but his life was now being run by Weisanen rather than tbe tables. The group was back on the water twelve hours after leaving it. Bresnahan still had his feeling of discomfort, with star-studded emptiness on one side and its reflection on the other, but he was given little time to brood about it. The first material to go into the lock consisted of half a dozen yardwide plastic bubbles of water. Silbert noted with interest that all contained animal life, ranging from barely visible Crustacea to herringsized fish. "So we're starting animal life here at last," remarked the spaceman. "I thought it was a major bone of contention whether we ever would." "The question was settled at the first meeting of the new board," replied Weisanen. "Life forms able to live here -- or presumably able to live here -- have been ready for several years. Please be careful in putting those in' the look -- just the odd-numbered ones first, please, first. The evens contain predators, and the others should be given a few hours to scatter before they are turned loose." "Right. Any special techniques for opening? Or just get the bubbles through the second lock and cut them open?" "That will do. I assume that a few hours in the currents inside, plus their own swimming abilities, will scatter them through a good part of the drop." "It should. I suppose they'll tend to stay pretty close to the skin because of the light; I trust they can take a certain amount of hard radiation." "That matter has been considered. There will be some loss, damage, and genetic change, of course, but we think the cultures will gain in spite of that. If they change, it is no great matter. We expect rapid evolution in an environment Iflce this, of course. It's certainly been happening so far." B resnahan helped push the proper spheres into the lock at the vacuum end and out of it at the other, and watched with interest as each was punctured with a knife and squeezed to expel the contents. "I should have asked about waiting for temperatures to match," remarked Silbert as the cloud of barely visible, jerkily moving specks spread from the last of the containers, "but it doesn't seem to be bothering them." "The containers were lying on Raindrop's surface all night, and the satellite is in radiative equilibrium," pointed out Bresnahan. "The temperatures shouldn't be very different anyway. Let's get back outside and see what's going on next. Either these water-bugs are all right, or they're beyond our help." ir "Right." Silbert followed the suggestion, and the newly released animals were left to their own devices. Outside, another job was under way. The largest single items of cargo had been a set of curved segments of metal, apparently blueanodized aluminum. In the few minutes that Silbert and Bresnahan had been inside, the Weisanens had sorted these out from the rest of the material and were now fitting them together. Each section attached to its neighbor by a set of positive-acting snap fasteners which could be set almost instantly, and within a very few minutes it became evident that they formed a sphere some twenty feet in diameter. A transparent dome of smaller radius was set in one pole, and a cylindrical structure with trap doors in the flat ends marked the other. With the assembly complete, the Weisanens carefully sprayed everything, inside and out, from cylinders which Silbert recognized as containing one of the standard fluorocarbon polymers used for sealing unfindable leaks in space ships. Then both Weisanens went inside. Either the' metallic appearance of the sphere was deceptive or there were antennae concealed m its structure, because orders came through the wall on the suit-radio frequency without noticeable loss. In response to these, Bresnahan and the spaceman began handing the rest of the equipment in through the cylindrical structure, which had now revealed itself a a minute air lock. As eadi item was received it was snapped down on a spot evidently prepared to receive it, and in less than two hours almost all the loose gear had vanished from the vicinity of Raindrop's entry lock. The little that was left also found a home as Weiianen emerged once more and fastened it to racks on the sphere's outer surface, clustered around the air lock. T he official went back inside, and, at his orders, Silbert and the computerman lifted the whole sphere onto the top of the cylindrical cargo lock of the satellite. Either could have handled the three-pound weight alone, but its shape and size made it awkward to handle and both men felt that it would be inadvisable to roll it. "Good. Now open this big hatch and let us settle into the lock chanaber," directed Weisanen. "Thea close up, and let in the water." It was the first time Silbert had caught his boss in a slip, and he was disproportionately pleased. The hatch opened outward, and it wae necessary to lift the sphere off again before the order could be obeyed. Once it was open, the two men had no trouble tossing the big globe into the yawning, nearly dark hole -- the sun was just rising locally and did not shine into the chamber -- but they had to wait over a minute for Raindrop's feeble gravity to drag the machine entirely inside. They could not push it any faster, because it was not possible to get a good grip on sphere and lock edge simultaneously; and pushing #i dow n on the sphere without good anchorage would have done much more to the pusher than to the sphere. However, it was finally possible to dose Ac big trap. After making sure that it was tightly latched -- it was sddom used, and Silbert did not trust its mechanism unreservedly -- he and Bresnahan entered the lock through Ac smaller portal. "Aren't Acre special suits for use kiside Raindrop, a lot more comfortable Aan Ais space armor?" asked Weisanen. "Yes, sir," replied Ae spaceman, "Aough Ae relative comfort is a matter of opinion. There are only Arec, and two of Aem haven't been used since I came. They'll need a careful checkout" "All right. Bring Aem in here, and Aen let Ae water into Ah lock." Silbert found Ae suits and handed them to Bresnahan to carry out Ae first part of Ae order, while he went to the controls to execute Ae second. "An ready?" he asked. "All set. BoA lock doors here are shut, and the three of us are inside. Let Ac flood descend." 'Wrong verb," muttered Silbert to himself. He very cautiously cracked the main inner hatch; opening it would have been asking for disaster. Even at a mere quarter atmosphoe's pressure Ae wall of water would have riammcd into the evacuated look violently enough to tear the outer pmtal away and ect sphere and occiMu at a e peo d well above Raindropli escape valae. There wes U a small Phoenix rocket in the sta tion for emergency use, but Silbert had no wish to create a genuine excuse for using it. Also, since he was in the lock himself, he would probably be in no condition to get or pilot it. V T he water sprayed in violently enough through the narrow opening he permitted, bouncing the sphere against the outer hatch and making a deafening clamor even for Ae spacesuited trio inside. However, nothing gave way, and in a minute it was safe to open the main hatch completely. Silbert did so. Through the clear dome which formed the sphere's only observation window he could see Weisanen fingering controls inside. Water jets from almost invisible ports in the outer surface came into action, and for the first time it became evident Aat the sphere was actually a vehicle. It was certainly not built for speed, but showed signs of being one of Ae most maneuverable ever built. After watching for a moment as it worked its way out of the lock, had little chance to practice handling it. But no catastrophe occurred, and finally Ae globe was hanging in Ae greenish void outside Ae weed-grown bulk of Ae lock. The spaceman closed the big hatch, emerged Arou Ae personnel lock himself, and swam over to Ae vehicle's entrance. The outer door of the tiny air IF lock opened manually. Thirty seconds later he was inside the rather crowded sphere removing his helmet -- some time during the last few minutes Weisanen had filled the vehicle with air. The others had already unhelmcted and were examining the "diving" suits which Bresnahan had brought inside. These were simple enough affairs; plastic form-fitting coveralls with an air-cycler on the chest and an outsized, transparent helmet which permitted far more freedom of head movement than most similar gear. Since there was no buoyance in this virtually weight-free environment, the helmet's volume did not create the problem it would have on Earth. Silbert was able to explain everything necessary about the equipment in a minute or two. Neither of the Weisanens needed to have any point repeated, and if Bresnahan was unsure about anything he failed to admit it. "All right." Raindrop's owner nodded briskly as the lesson ended. "We seem to be ready. I started us down as soon as Mr. Silbert came aboard, but it will take the best part of an hour to reach the core. When we get there a regular ecological sampling run win be made. You can do that, Mr. Silbert, using your regular equipment and techniques; Ac former is aboard, whether you noticed it being loaded or not. Brenda and I will make a physical, and physiographical, examination of the core itself, wi a view to finding jost what wfll have to be done to set up living quarters there and where will be the best place to build them." S ilbeit's reaction to this remark may have been expected; both Weisanens had been watching him with slight smiles on their faces. He did not disappoint them. "Lving quarters? That's ridiculous! There's no weight to speak of even at Raindrop's surface, and even less at the core. A person would lose the calcium from his skeleton in a few weeks, and go unbalanced in I don't know how many other chemical ways -- " "Fourteen known so far, Mr. Silbert. We know all about that, or as much as anyone does. It was a shame to tease you, but my husband and I couldn't resist Also, some of the factors involved are not yet public knowledge, and we have reasons for not wanting them too widely circulated for a while yet." Brenda Weisanen's interruption was saved from rudeness by the smile on her face. "I would invite you to sit down to listen, but sitting means nothing here -- I'll get used to that eventually, no doubt. "The fact you just mentioned about people leaching calcium out of their skeletons after a few days CH weeks of weightlessness was learned long ago -- even before long manned space flights had been made; the information was gained from flotation experiments. Strictly speaking, it is not an effect ot weightlessness per se, but a feedback phenomenon involving relative muscular effort -- something which mit have been predicted, and for rr all I know may actually have been predicted, from the fact that the ankle bones in a growing child ossify much more rapidly than the wrist bones. A very minor genetic factor is involved; after all, animals as similar to us as dolphins which do spend all their time afloat grow perfectly adequate skeletons. "A much more subtle set of chemical problems were noticed the hard way when manned space stations were set up, as you well know. A lot of work was done on these, as you might expect, and we now are quite sure that all which will produce detectable results in less than five years of continuous weightlessness are known. There are fourteen specific factors -- chemical and genetic keys to the log jam, if you like to think of it that way. "You have the ordinary educated adult's knowledge of gene tailoring, Mr. Silbert. What was the logical thing to do?" "Since gene tailoring on human beings is flagrantly illegal, for good and sufficient reasons, the logical tihing to do was and is to avoid weightlessness," Silbert replied. "With Phoenix rockets, we can make interplanetary flight at a continuous one-gravity acceleration, while space stations can be and arc centrifuged." Brenda Weisanen's smile did not change, but her husband looked annoyed. He took up the discussion. "Illegal or not, for good or bad reasons, it was perfectly reasonable to consider modifying human genetic patterns so that some people at least could live and work normally and indefinitely in a weightless environment. Whether it shocks yoo or not, the thing was tried over seventy years ago, and over five hundred people now alive have this modification -- and are not, as I suppose you would put it, fully human." B resnahan interrupted. "I would not put it that way!" he snapped. "As anyone who has taken work in permutation and combination knows perfectly well, there is no such thing as a fully human being if you define the term relative to some precise, specific idealized gene pattern. Mutations are occurring all the time from radiation, thermal effects, and just plain quantum jumping of protons in the genetic molecules. The sort of phenomenon is used as example material in elementary programming courses, and one of the first things you learn when you run such a problem is that no one is completely without such modifications. If, as I suppose you are about to say, you and Mrs. Weisanen are genetically different enough to take weightlessness, I can't see why it makes you less human. I happen to be immune to four varieties of leukemia virus and sixteen of the organisms usually responsible for the common cold, according to one analysis of my own gene pattern. If lrt's had ever been checked wed find at least as many peculiarities about his -- and I refuse to admit that either of us is less human dian anyone else we've ever met "Thank you, Mr. Bresnahan, ir Brenda Weisanen took up the thread of the discussion once more. " The usual prejudice against people who are known to be significantly different tends to make some of us a little self-conscious. In any case, my husband and I can stand weightlessness indefinitely, as far as it is now possible to tell, and we plan to stay here permanently. More of us will be coming up later for the same purpose." "But why? Not that it's any of my business. I like Raindrop, but it's not the most stimulating environment and in any case I'm known to be the sort of oddball who prefers being alone with a collection of books to more other activities." The woman glanced at her husband before answering. He shrugged. "You have already touched on the point, Mr. Silbert. Modifying the human genetic pattern involves the same complication which plagued medicine when hormones became available for use in treatment. Any one action is likely to produce several others as an unplanned, and commonly unwanted, by-product. Our own modification is not without its disadvantages. What our various defects may be I would not presume to list in toto -- any more than Mr, Bresnahan would care to list his -- but one of them strikes very close to home just now. Aino and I are expecting a child, and about nine times out of ten when a woman of our type remains in normal gravity any child she conceives is lost during the fifth or sixth month. The precise cause is not known; it involves the mother's physique rather than the child's, but that leaves a lot still to be learned. Therefore, I am staying here until my baby is born, at the very least. We expect to live here. We did not ask to be modified to fit space, but if it turns out that we can live better here -- so be it." "Then Raindrop is going to be turned into a -- a -- maternity hospital?" iiT think a fairer term would be JL 'colony,' Mr. Silbert," interjected Weisanen. "There are a good many of us, and most if not all of us are considering making this place our permanent home." "Which means that breaking it up according to the original plan to supply farming volume is no longer on the books." "Precisely." "How do you expect to get away with that? This whole project was planned and paid for as a new source of food." "That was when it was a government project. As you know, it became a private concern recently; the government was paid full value for Raindrop, the station, and the shuttle which keeps it supplied. As of course you do not know, over eighty per cent of the stock of that corporation is owned by people like myself. What we propose to do is perfectly legal, however unpopular it may make us with a few people." "More than a few, I would say. And how can you afford to be really unpopular, living in something as fragile as Raindrop?" queried Bresnahan. "There are lots of spaceships available. Even if no official action were or could be taken, anyone who happened to have access to one and disliked you sufficiently could wreck the skin of this tank so thoroughly in five minutes that you'd have to start all over again even if you yourselves lived through it. All the life you'd established would freeze before repairs could be made complete enough to stop the water from boiling away." "That is true, and is a problem we haven't entirely solved," admitted the other. "Of course, the nasty laws against the publication of possible mob-rousing statements which were found necessary as Earth's population grew should operate to help us. Nowadays many people react so negatively to any unsupported statement that the word would have trouble getting around. In any case, we don't intend to broadcast the details and comparatively few people know much about the Raindrop project at all. I don't think that many will feel cheated." Silbert's reaction to the last sentence was the urge to cry out, "But they are being cheated!" However, it was beginning to dawn on him that he was not in the best possible position to argue with Weisanen. He subsided. He himself had been living , with the Raindrop project for three years, had become closely identified with it, and the change of policy bothered him for deeper reasons than his intelligence alone could recognize. Bresnahan was also bothered, though he was not as deeply in love with the project as the spaceman. He was less impressed by Weisanen's conviction that there would be no trouble; but he had nothing useful to say about the matter. He was developing ideas, but they ran along the line of wondering when he could get to a computer keyboard to set the whole situation up as a problem. His background and training had left him with some doubt of any human being's ability -- including his own -- to handle all facets of a complex problem. Neither of the Weisanens seemed to have any more to say, either, so the sphere drifted downward in silence. VI T hey had quickly passed the limit which sunlight could reach, and were surrounded by blacknesa, which the sphere's own interior lights seemed only to accentuate. With neither gravity nor outside reference points, the sphere was of course being navigated by instrument. Sonar equipment kept the pilot informed of the distance to the nearest point of the skin, the distance and direction of the lock through which they had entered, and the distance and direction of the core. Interpretation of the echoes was complicated by the fact that Raindrop's outer skin was so sharply curved, but Weisanen seemed to have that problem well in hand ai he drove the vehicle downward. Pressure, of course, did not change ignificantly with depth. The thirty IF per cent increase from skin to core meant nothing to healthy people. There was not even an instrument to register this factor, as far as Silbert could see. He was not too happy about that; his spaceman's prejudices made him feel that there should be independent instrumentation to back up the sonar gear. As they neared the core, however, instruments proved less necessary than expected. To the mild surprise of the Weisanens and the blank astonishment of Silbert -- Bresnahan knew too little to expect anything, either way -- the central region of the satellite was not completely dark. The light was so faint that it would not have been noticed if they had not been turning off the sphere's lamps every few minutes, but it was quite bright enough to be seen, when they were a hundred yards or so from the core, without waiting for eyes to become dark-adapted. "None of your samples ever included luminous bacteria," remarked the official. T wonder why none of them ever got close enough to the skin for you to pick up." "I certainly don't knOw," replied Silbert. "Are you sure it's caused by bacteria?" "Not exactly by a long shot; it just seems the best starting guess. I'm certain it's not heat or radioactivity, and offhand I can't think of any other possibilities. Can you?" "No, I can't. But maybe whatever is producing the light is attached to the core -- growing on it, if it's alive. So it wouldn't have reached the surface." "That's possible, though I hope you didn't think I was criticizing your sampling techniques. It was one of my friends who planned them, not you. We'll go on down; we're almost in contact with the core now, according to the fathometer." Weisanen left the lights off, except for the tiny fluorescent sparks on the controls themselves, so the other three crowded against th# bulge of the viewing port to se what was coming. Weightlessness made this easier than it might have been; they didn't have to "stand" al the same spot to have their heads close together. For a minute or so, nothing was perceptible in the way of motion. There was just the clear, faintly luminous water outside the port Then a set of slender, tentacular filaments as big around as a human thumb seemed to writhe past thn port as the sphere sank by them; and the eyes which followed their length could suddenly see their point of attachment. "There!" muttered Brenda Weisanen softly. "Slowly, dear -- only a few yards." "There's no other way this thing can travel," pointed out her husband. "Don't worry about our hitting anything too hard." "I'm not -- but look! It's beautiful! Let's get anchored and go outside." "In good time. It will stay there, and anyway I'm going out before you do -- long enough before to, at least, make reasonably certain ifa safe." T he wife looked for a moment as though she were about to argue this point, if her facial expression could be read accurately in the faint light, but she said nothing. Bresnahan and Silbert had die intelligence to keep quiet as well; more could be learned by looking than by getting into the middle of a husband-wife disagreement, and now there was plenty to look at. The core was visible for at least two hundred yards in all directions, as the .sphere spun slowly under Weisanen's control. The light definitely came from the life forms which matted its surface. Presumably these were fungi, since photosynthetic forms could hardly have grown in such an environment, but they were fungi which bore little resemblance to their Terrestrial ancestors. Some were ribbon-like, some feather-like, some snaky -- even patches of what looked like smoothly mown lawn were visible. The greenish light was evidently not pure color, since other shades were visible; red, purple, and yellow forms stood out here and there in eye-catching contrast to grays and browns. Some forms were even green, though it seemed unlikely that this was due to chlorophyll. Practically all seemed to emit the vague light which bathed the entire scene -- so uniformly that outlines would have been hard to distinguish were it not for a few specimens which were much brighter than the others. These types bore what might have been spore pods; t# IF from fist to grapefruit size, raised "above" the rest of the surface as much as eight or ten feet on slender stalks. These cast shadows which helped distinguish relief. The woman was right; weird it might be, but the scene was beautiful. Weisanen cut off the water jets and waited for a minute or two. The vehicle drifted slowly but perceptibly away from the surface; evidently there was some current. "We'll have to anchor," he remarked. "Bren, stay inside until we've checked. I'll go out to see what we can fasten ourselves to; there's no information at all on what sort of surface there may be. A fair-sized stony meteormd -- really an asteroid -- was used as the original core, but the scAids from the comets would be very fins dust. There could be yards of too fine to hold any sort of anchor' surrounding the solid part. You gentlemen will please get into the other suits and come with me. If nothiM has happened to any of us in has an hour, Bren, you may join us. "There are only three suits, " hit wife pointed out. "True. Well, your spiacesuit wBI do; or if you prefer, one of us w#i use his and let you have the diviogj gear. In any case, that problem m low-priority. If you gentlemen ai ready we'h go. I'll start; this li strictly a one-man air lock."All three had been climbing out of their spacesuits as Weisanen war talking. TTie other garments wem easy enough to get into, though Bresnahan found the huge helmet unwieldy even with no weight Weisanen was through the lock before either of the others was ready to follow; Silbert was slowed by his space-bom habit of double-checking every bit of the breathing apparatus, and Bresnahan by his inexperience. They could see their employer through the window as they finished, swimming slowly and carefully toward the weedy boundary of Raindrop's core. Both men stayed where they were for the moment, to see what would happen when he reached it. Brenda Weisanen watched even more closely; there was no obvious reason to be afraid, but her breath was coming unevenly and her fists tightly clenched as her husband approached the plants and reached out to touch the nearest. XTothing spectacular happened. It yielded to has touch; when he seized it and pulled, it broke. "Either the plants are awfully fragile or there is fairly firm ground anchoring them," remarked Silbert. "Let's go outside. You're checked out on the controls of this thing, aren't you, Mrs. Weisanen?" "Not in great detail," was the reply. "I know which switches handle lights and main power for the lock pump, and which control bank deals with the jets; but I've had no practice in actually handling it. Aino hadn't, either, until we started this trip an hour ago. Go ahead, though; I won't have to do anything anyway. Aino is anchoring us now." She gestured toward the port. Her husband could now be seen through it carrying something a harpoon, with a length of fins line attached to it A couple of yarcb from the surface he poised himself and hurled the object, javelin style -- or as nearly to that style as anyone can manage in water -- into the mass of vegetation. The shaft buried itself completely. Weisanen gave a tug on the line, whose far end was attached to the sphere. He seemed satisfied and turned to look at the vehicle. Seeing the men still inside, he gestured impatiently. Bresnahan followed Silbert through the tiny air lock as rapidly as its cycling time would permit, leaving the woman alone in the sphere. Outside, Weisanen was several yards away, still beckoning imperiously. "You can talk, sir," remarked Silbert in ordinary tones. "There's no need for sign language." "Oh. Thanks; I didn't see any radio equipment in these helmets. "There isn't any. The helmets themselves aren't just molded plastic; they're a multi-layered arrangement that acts as an impedance matcher between the air inside and die water outside. Sound goes through water well enough; it's the air-water interface that makes conversation difficult. This stuff gets the sound across the boundary." "All right; good. Let's get to work. If the figures for the size of the original nucleus still mean anything, we have nearly twenty million square feet to check up on. Right now we won't try to do it att; stay in sight of the sphere. Get IF lest rods and pbinkton gear from tfiat rack by  air lock. Mr. Silbert, use the nets and collectors as you usually do. Mr. Bresnahan, you and I will use the rods; simply poke them into the surface every few yards. The idea is to get general knowledge of the firmness of the underlying surface, and to find the best places to build -- or attach -- permanent structures. If you should happen to notice any connection between the type of vegetation and the kind of ground it grows on, so much the better; surveying by eye will be a lot faster than by touch. If any sort of trouble comes up, yell. I don't see why there should be any, but I don't want Brenda out here until we're a little more certain." The men fell to their rather  monotonous tasks. The plant cover, it developed, ranged from an inch or two to over a yard in thickness, not counting the scattered forms which extended their tendrils scores of feet out toward the darkness. At no point was the underlying "ground" visible. Where the growing cover was pushed or dug away, the core seemed to be made of a stiff, brownish clay, which reached at least as deep as the test prods could be pushed by hand. This rather surprised Silbert, who had expected either solid rock or oozy mud. He was not geochemist enough to guess at the reactions which might have formed what they actually found, and was too sensible to worry about it before actual analyses had been made. If Weisanen had any opinions, he kept them to himself. Bresnahan was not worried about the scientific aspect of the situation at all. He simply poked away with his test bar because he had been told to, devoting only a fraction of his attention to the task. His thoughts were elsewhere. Specifically, he was following through the implications of the information the Weisanens had furnished during the trip down. He admitted to himself that in the other's position he would probably be doing the same thing; but it seemed as though some compromise should be possible which would salvage the original purpose of Raindrop. Bresnahan did not, of course, expect to eat as well as the average man of mid-twentieth century. He never had, and didn't know what he was missing. He did know, however, that at his present age of twenty-five there was a smaller variety of foodstuffs available than he could remember from his childhood, and he didn't want that process to go any farther. Breaking up Raindrop according to the original plan seemed to him the obvious thing to do. If land and sea farming areas were disappearing under the population flood, the logical answer was farming areas in the sky. This should be as important to the Weisanens as to anyone else. He felt a little uneasy about bringing the matter up again, however. Somehow, he had a certain awe of Weisanen which he didn't think was entirely due to the fact that the latter was his employer. Several times their paths came close together as the two plied their test bars, but Bresnahan was unable to wind his courage up to the necessary pitch for some time -- not, in fact, until they had been exploring the region uneventfully for over half an hour and Weisanen had finally, with some hesitation, decided that it was safe for his wife to join them. There was some slight rivalry between Silbert and Bresnahan over who should give up his diving gear to the woman and resume his spacesuit If Bresnahan had won, a good deal of subsequent trouble might have been avoided; but when all four were finally outside, Silbert was wearing space armor. He had pointed out quite logically that he was the most used to it and would work better than any of the otners in its restrictions. T he key to the subsequent trouble was that one of the restrictions involved communication. If Silbert had been able to hear clearly, he might have understood what was developing before it had gone too far; but he couldn't. His space helmet lacked the impedance-matching feature of. the diving gear, and the latter equipment had no radios. Some sound did get through his helmet both from and into the water, but not much; for real conversation he had to bring the helmet into physical contact with that of the other party. He therefore knew little of what went on during the next few minutes. He spent them continuing his ecology sample, and paid little attention to anything else. With Mrs. Weisanen present, some of Bresnahan's unease in her husband's presence left him, and he brought up at last the point which had occurred to him. "I've been wondering, sir," he opened, "whv it wouldn't be possible to break up Raindrop just as was planned, and still use the smaller drops as homes for people like yourselves. I can't see that it would be verv different from your present plan."' Weisanen did not seem annoyed, but answered in a straightforward fashion. "Aside from the fact that we would prefer to be in a single city rather than a lot of detached houses which would require us to visit our neighbors by spaceship, the smaller drops will have the radiation problem. Here we have nearly" five miles of water shielding us." "Hmph. I never thought of that." "No reason why you should have. It was never your problem." "But still -- what do we do about food? Conditions on Earth are getting worse all the time. Starting another Raindrop project would take years. Couldn't you at least compromise? Permit the small drops to be skimmed off the surface of this one while you are living here, and while another Raindrop is set up?" "I don't' like the idea. Can you imagine what it will be like here with shock waves from exploding steam bubbles echoing all through the globe every time the skin is opened for a new farm lot?" IF "Why should they break the kin? I should think they'd want to draw off the water through the lock, or other locks which might be built, anyway; otherwise there'd be a lot of waste from boiling. I should think -- " W eisanen's annoyance suddenly boiled over, though no sign of it had been visible before. "Mr. Bresnahan, it matters very little what you think when you forget that Raindrop is now, legally and properly, private property. I dislike to sound selfish and misanthropic, but I belong to a group which has gone to a great deal of thought and labor to get for itself, legally and without violence, an environment which it needs and which no one else -- including the people responsible for our existence -- was you would think with your brain instead of your stomach you'd realize that the whole original project was pure nonsense. The only possible way mankind can keep himself adequately fed is to limit his population. If you'll pardon the pun, the whole idiotic project was a drop in the bucket. It might have put the day of reckoning back five years, conceivably ten or fifteen, but then we'd have been right back where we started. Even with fusion energy there's a limit to the number of space farms which could be built in a given time, and the way Earth's population grows it would soon be impossible just to make new farms fast enough, let alone operate them. Cheating people? Nonsense! We're doing the rest of nankind a favor by forcing them to face facts them to argue with each other. One group has had to exercise the same sort of control the rest of mankind should be using for a good half century. We didn't dare have children except when it was practicable to keep the mother in orbit for the best part of a year. Why should we be particularly sympathetic with the rest of you?" "I see your point," admitted Bresnahan, "but you've forgotten one other thing. The food problem is yours, too. What will you do as your food supply shrinks like everyone else's? Or worse, when people decide not to send any food at all up here, since you won't send any down? Raindrop is a long way yet from being self-supporting, you know." A grin, clearly visible in the light from a nearby plant knob, appeared on Weisanen's face; but his irritation remained. "Slight mistake, my young friend. There is another minor modification in our structure; our saliva glands produce an enzyme you lack. We can digest cellulose." He waved his hand at the plants around them. "How do you know these plants contain cellulose?" "All plants do; but that's a side issue. The weeds near the surface were analyzed long ago, and proved to contain all the essentials for human life -- in form which we can extract with our own digestive apparatus. Raindrop, as it now is, could support all of us there are ow and there are likely to be for a couple of generations. Now, please get back to checking this little world of ours. Brenda and I want to decide where to build our house." B resnahan was silent, but made no move to get back to work. He floated for a minute or so, thinking furiously; Weisanen made no effort to repeat or enforce his order. At last the computerman spoke slowly -- and made his worst mistake. "You may be right in your legal standing. You may be right in your opinion about the value of Raindrop and what the rest of the human race should do -- personally, I want a family some day. You may even be right about your safety from general attack because the communication laws will keep down the number of people who know about the business. But, right or wrong, if even a single person with access to a spaceship does find out, then you -- and your wife -- and your baby -- are all in danger. Doesn't that suggest to you that some sort of compromise is in order?" Weisanen's expression darkened and his muscles tensed. His wife, looking at him, opened her mouth and made a little gesture of protest even before he started to speak; but if she made a sound it was drowned out. "It certainly suggests something, young fellow," snapped the official. "I was hoping the matter wouldn't descend to this level, but remember that while we can live here indefinitely, you cannot. A few weeks ol weightlessness will do damage which your bodies can never repair. Thera is no regular food down here. And we control the transportation back to the station and weight." "Aino -- no!" His wife laid a hand on his arm and spoke urgently. "Wait, dear. If you threaten at all, it's too close to a threat of death. I don't want to kill anyone, and don't want to think of your doing so. It wouldn't be worth it. ' "You and the little one are worth it. Worth anything! I won't listen to argument on that." "But argument isn't needed. There is time. Mr. Bresnahan and his friend will certainly wait and think before risking the consequences of a mob-raising rumor. He wants a compromise, not -- " "His compromise endangers you and the others. I won't have it. Mr. Bresnahan, I will not ask you for a promise to keep quiet; you might be the idealistic type which can justify breaking its word for what it considers a good cause. Also, I will not endanger your life and health more than I can help. Brenda is right to some extent; I don't want regardless of the cause. Therefore, you and Mr. Silbert will remain here at the core until Brenda and I have returned to the station and made sure that no communication gear will function without our knowledge and consent. Ihai may be a few days, which may be more than your health should risk. I'm sorry, but I'm balancing that risk to you against one to us." M IF Why should it take days? An hour to the surface, a few minutes to the station -- " "And Heaven knows how long to find and take care of all the radios. Neither of us is an expert in that field, and we'll be a long time making sure we have left no loopholes." "Will you at least stop to find out whether the air renewers in these diving suits are indefinite-time ones, like the spacesuit equipment? And if they aren't, let me change back into my spacesuit?" "Of course. Change anyway. It will save my trying to get the substance of this conversation across to Mr. Silbert. You can tell him on radio while we are on the way. Come with me back to the sphere and change. Brenda stay here." ut, dearest -- this isn't right. You know -- " "I know what I'm doing and why your lead in a lot of things, Bren, but this is not one of them." "But -- " "No buts. Come, Mr. Bresnahan. Follow me." The wife fell silent, but her gaze was troubled as she watched the two men vanish through the tiny lock. Bresnahan wondered what she would do. It was because he felt sure Ac would something that he hadn't simply defied Weisanen. T he woman's face was no happier when the compuiterman emerged alone and swam back to a point beside her. Her husband was visible throu the port, outsized helmet removed, beckoning to her. For a moment Bresnahan had the ' hope that she would refuse to go. This faded as she swam slowly toward the sphere, occassionally looking back, removed the anchor in response to a gesture from the man inside, and disappeared through the lock. The vehicle began to drift upward, vegetation near it swirling in the water jets. Within a minute it had faded from view into the darkness. "Just what's going on here?" Silbert's voice was clear enough; the suit radios carried for a short distance through water. "Where are they going, and why?" "You didn't hear any of my talk with Weisanen?" "No. I was busy, and it's hard to get sound through this helmet anyway. What happened? Did you argue with him?" "In a way." Bresnahan gave the story as concisely as he could. His friend's whistle sounded eerily ia the confines of his helmet. "This -- is -- really -- something. Just for the record, young pal, we are in a serious jam, I hope you realize." "I don't think so. His wife is against the idea, and he'll let himself get talked out of it -- he's a little afraid of the results already." "Not the point. It doesn't matter if the whole thing was a practical joke on his part. They're out of sight, in a medium where no current charts exist and the only navigation aids are that sphere's awn sonar units. He covdd find his way back to the core, but how could ha find Of?" "Aren't we right under the lock aad the station? We came straight down," "Don't bet on that. I told you -- there are currents. If we made a ttraight track on the trip down here m be the most surprised man inside Luna's orbit. There are twenty ball. We'd be visible from a radius of maybe two hundred -- visible and recognizable, that is, with our tights on. That means they have something like two hundred search blocks, if my mental arithmetic is right, without even a means of knowing when they cover a given one a second time. There is a chance they'd find us, but not a good one -- not a good enough one so that we should bet your chance of dodging a couple of weeks of weightlessness on it. When that nut went out of sight, he disposed of us once and for all." "I wouldn't call him a nut," Bresnahan said. "Why not? Anyone who would leave a couple people to starve or get loaded with zero-gee symptoms on the odd chance that they might blab his favorite scheme to the public -- " "He's a little unbalanced at the moment, but not a real nut. I'm sure he didn't realize he'd passed the point of no return. Make allowances, Bert; I can. Some of my best friends are married, and I've seen 'em when they first learned a kid was on the way. It's just that they don't usually have this good a chance to get other people in trouble; they're all off the beam for a little while." i'lou're the most tolerant and I civilized character I've met, and you've just convinced me that there can be too much of even the best of things. For my money the guy is a raving nut. More to the point, unless we can get ourselves out of the jam he's dropped us into, we're worse than nuts. We're dead." "Maybe he'll realize the situation and go back to the station and call for help." "There can be such a thing as too much optimism, too. My young friend, he's not going to get to the station." "What? Why not?" "Because the only laser tube not already in the station able to trigger the cobweb launchers is right here on my equipment clip. That's another reason I think he's a nut. He should have thought of that and pried it away from me somehow." "Maybe it just means he wasn't serious about the whole thing." "Never mind what it means about him. Whatever his intentions. I'd back to us with his tail between his legs if I thought he could find us. Since I don't think he can, we'd better get going ourselves." "Huh? How?" "Swim. How else? "But how do we navigate? Once we're out of sight of the core we'd be there in the dark with absolutely nothing to guide us. These little lights on our suits aren't -- " "I know they aren't. That wasn't the idea. Don't worry; I may not be able to swim in a straight line, bi I can get us to surface evenIF tually. Come on; five miles is a long swim." Silbert started away from the glow, and Bresnahan followed uneasily. He was not happy at the prospect of weightlessness and darkness combined; the doses on the trip down, when at least the sphere had been present for some sort of orientation, had been more than sufficient. T he glow of the core faded slowly behind them, but before it was too difficult to see Silbert stopped. "All right, put your light on. Til do the same; stay close to me." Bresnahan obeyed both orders gladly. "Now, watch." The spaceman manipulated "Valves on his suit, and carefully ejected a bubble of air about two feet in diameter. "You noticed that waste gas from the electrolyzers in the diving suits didn't stay with us to be a nuisance. The bubbles drifted away, even when we were at the core," he pointed out. Bresnahan hadn't noticed, since he wasn't used to paying attention to the fate of the air he exhaled, but was able to remember the fact once it was mentioned. "That of course, was not due to buoyancy; so close to the core. The regular convection currents started by solar heat at the skin must be responsible. Therefore, those currents must extend all the way between skin and core. We'll follow this bubble." "If the current goes all the way, why not just drift?" "For two reasons. One is that the currents are slow -- judging by their speed near the skin, the cycle must take over a day. Once we get away from the core, the buoyancy of this bubble will help; we can swim after it. "The other reason is that if we simply drift we might start down again with the current before we got close enough to the skin to see daylight. "Another trick we might try if this takes too long is to have one of us drift while the other follows the bubble to the limit of vision. That would establish the up-down line, and we could swim in that direction for a while and then repeat. I'm afraid we probably couldn't hold swimming direction for long enough to be useful, though, and it would be hard on the reserve air supply. We'd have to make a new bubble each time we checked. These suits have recyclers, but a spacesuit isn't built to get its oxygen from the surrounding water the way that diving gear is." "Let's just follow this bubble," Bresnahan said fervently. At first, of course, the two merely drifted. There simply was no detectable buoyancy near the core. However, in a surprisingly short time the shimmering globule of gas began to show a tendency to drift away from them. The direction of drift was seldom the one which Bresnahan was thinking of as "up" at the moment, but the spaceman nodded approval and carefully followed their only guide. Bresnahan wished that his training had given him more confidence in instrument readings as opposed to his own senses, but followed Silbert hopefully. EX T he fourteen hours he spent drifting weightless in the dark made m experience Bresnahan was never to forget, and his friends were never lo ignore. He always liked crowds afterward, and preferred to be in cities or at least buildings where straight, clearly outlined walls, windows, and doors marked an unequivocal up-and-down direction. Even Silbert was bothered. He was more used to weightlessness, but the darkness he was used to seeing around him at such times was normally pocked with stars which provide orientation. The depths of Raindrop provided nothing. Both men were almost too far gone to believe their senses when they finally realized that the bubble they were still following could be seen by a glow not from their suits lights. It was a faintly blue-green illumination, still impossible to define as to source, but unmistakably sunlight filtered through hundreds of feet of water. Only minutes later their helmets met the tough, elastic skin of the satellite. It took Silbert only a few moments to orient himself. The sun and the station were both visible -- at least they had not come out on the opposite side of the satellite -- and he knew the time. The first and last factors were merely checks; all that was really necessary to find the lock was to swim toward the point under the oMtiag atation. "I don't want to use the sonar locater unless I have to," he pointed out. "There is sonar gear on the sphere. I should be able to get us close enough by sighting on the station so that the magnetic compass will work. Judging by where the station seems to be, we have four or five miles to swim. Let's get going." "And let's follow the great circle course," added Bresnahan. "Never mind cutting across inside just because it's shorter. I've had all I ever want of swimming in the dark." "My feeling exactly. Come on." The distance was considerably greater than Silbert had estimated, since he was not used to doing his sighting from under water and had not allowed for refraction; but finally the needle of the gimballed compass showed signs of making up its mind, and with nothing wrong that food and sleep would not repair the two men came at last in sight of the big lock cylinder. For a moment, Silbert wondered whether they should try to make their approach secretly. Then he decided that if the Weisanens were there waiting for them the effort would be impractical, and if they weren't it would be futile. He simply swam up to the small hatch followed by Bresnahan, and they entered the big chamber together. It proved to be full of water, but the sphere was nowhere in sight. With no words they headed for the outer personnel lock, entered it, pumped back the water, and emerged mi Raindrop's surface. Silbert used IF Ms laser, and ten minutes later they were inside the station. Bresnahan's )amp had been a little more skillful than before. it"VTow let's get on the radiol" snapped Silbcrt as he shed his space helmet. "Why? Whom would you call, and what would you tell them? Remember that our normal Earth-end contacts are part of the same group the Weisanens belong to, and you can't issue a general broadcast to e universe at large screaming about a plot against mankind in die hope that someone will take you seriously. Someone might." "But -- " "My turn, Bert. You've turned what I still think was just a potentially tragic mistake of Weisanen's mto something almost funny, and incidentally saved both our lives. Now will you follow my lead? Things could still be serious if we lon't follow up properly." "But what arc you going to do?" "You'll see. Take it from me, compromise is still possible. It will take a little time; Aino Weisanen will have to learn something I can't teach him myself. Tell me, is there any way to nlonitor what goes on in Raindrop? For example, can you tell from here when the lock down diere is opened, so we would know when they come back." "No." "Then we'll just have to watch for them. I assume that if we see Ihem, we can call them from here en regular radio." "Of course." "Then let's eat, sleep, and wait They'll be back after a while, and when they come Aino will listen to reason, believe me. But we can sleep right now. I'm sure; it will be a while yet before they show up. They should still be looking for us -- getting more worried by the minute." "Why should they appear at all? They must have found but long ago that they can't get back to the station on their own. They obviously haven't found us, and won't. Maybe they've simply decided they're already fugitive murderers and have settled down to a permanent life m Raindrop." "That's possible, I suppose. Well, if we don't see them in a couple of weeks, we can go back down and give them a call in some fashion. Fd rather they came to us, though, and not too soon. "But let's forget that; I'm starved. What's in your culture tanks besides liver?" X I t did not take two weeks. Nine days and eight hours after the men had returned to the station, Silbert saw two spacesuited figures standing on the lock half a mile away, and called his companion's attention to them. "They must be desperate by this time," remarked Bresnahan. "We'd better call them before they decide to risk the jump anyway." He activated the transmitter which Silbert indicated, and spoke. "Hello, Mr. and Mrs. Weisanen. Do you want us to send the cobweb down?" The voice that answered was female. "Thank God you're there I Yes, please. We'd like to come up for a while." Silbert expected some qualifying remarks from her husband, but none were forthcoming. At Bresnahan's gesture, he activated the spring gun which launched the web toward the satellite. "Maybe you'd better suit up and go meet them," suggested the coinputerman. "I don't suppose either of them is very good at folding angular speed." "I'm not sure I care whether they go off on their own orbit anyway," growled the spaceman rising with some reluctance to his feet. "Still bitter? And both of them?" queried Bresnahan. "Well -- I suppose not. And it would take forever to repair the web if it hit the station unfolded. I'll be back." Silbert vanished toward the hub, and the younger man turned back to watch his employers make the leap from Raindrop. He was not too surprised to see them hold hands as they did so, with the natural result that they spun madly on the way to the web and came close to missing it altogether. When his own stomach had stopped whirling in sympathy, he decided that maybe the incident was for the best. Anything which tended to cut down Weisanen's self-assurance should be helpful, even though there was good reason to suspect tlhi; ' c battle was already won. He wondered whether he should summon the pair to his and Silhert's quarters for the interview which was about to ensue, but decided that there was such a thing as going too far. He awaited the invitation to the Weisanens' rooms with eagerness. I t came within minutes of the couple's arrival at the air lock. When Bresnahan arrived he found Silbert already in the room where they had first reported on their brief visit to Raindrop. All three were still in spaces nits; they had removed only the helmets. "We're going back down as soon as possible, Mr. Bresnahan," Weisanen began without preliminary. "I have a rather lengthy set of messages here which I would like yon and Mr. Silbert to transmit as soon as possible. You will note that they contain my urgent recommendation for a policy change. Your suggestion of starting construction of smaller farms from Raindrop's outer layers is sound, and I think the Company will follow it. I am also advising that material be collected from the vicinity of the giant planets -- Saturn's rings seem a likely source -- for constructing additional satellites like Raindrop as private undertakings. Financing can be worked out. There should be enough profit from the farms, and that's the logical direction for some of it to flow. "Once other sources of farm material are available. Raindrop will not be used further for the purpose. It will serve as Company headquarIF ters -- it win be more convenient to have that in orbit anyway. The closest possible commercial relations are to be maintained with Earth." "I'm glad you feel that way, sir," replied Bresnahan. "We'll get the messages off as soon as possible. I take it that morc of the Company's officials will be coming up here to live, then?" "Probably all of them, within the next two years or so. Brenda and I will go back and resume surveying now, as soon as we stock up with tome food. I'll be back occasionally, but I'd rather she kept away from high weight for the next few months, as you know." "Yes, sir," Bresnahan managed, by a heroic effort, to control his tmile -- almost. Weisanen saw the flicker of his lip, and froze for a moment. Then his own sober features loosened into a broad grin. "Maybe another hour won't hurt Brenda," he remarked. "Let's have a meal together before we go back." He paused, and added almost diffidently. "Sorry about what happened. We're human, you know." "I know," replied Bresnahan. "That's what I was counting on." # # nd that," remarked Silbert as he shed his helmet, "is that They're aboard and bound for the core again, happy as clams. And speaking of clams, if you don't tell me why that stubborn Finn changed his mind, and why you were so sure he'd do it there'll be mayhem around here. Don't try to make me believe that he got scared about what he'd nearly done to us. I know his wife was on our side, basically, but she wasn't about to wage open war for us.' She was as worried about their kid as he was. Come on; make with the words, chum." "Simple enough. Didn't you notice what he wanted before going back to Raindrop?" "Not particularly -- oh; food. So what? He could live on the food down there -- or couldn't he? Don't you believe what he said?" "Sure I believe him. He and his wife can digest cellulose, Heaven help them, and they can live off Raindrop's seaweed. As I remarked to him, though -- you heard me, and he understood me -- they're human. I can digest kale and cauliflower, too, and could probably live off them as well as that pair could live off the weeds. But did you ever stop to think what the stuff must taste like? Neither did they. I knew they'd be back with open mouths -- and open minds. Let's eat --  -- and many others! Exdttng tdence-fiction stories and science-fact articles in the IF # Short Story Guesting Time Things were a bit crowded where they came from -- and were getting that way herel W inston, the Civil Servant in Immigration and Arrivals, was puzzled when he came that morning. There were several hundred new people behind the cyclone fences, and no arrivals had been scheduled. "What ships landed?" he called out. "Why were they unscheduled?" "No ships landed, sir," said Potholder, the senior guard. "Then how did these people get here? Walk down from the sky?" Winston asked snappishly. "Yes, sir, I guess so. We don't know who they are or how they keep coming here. They say they SLve from Skandia." "We have few Scandanavian arrivals, and none of such appearance as this," said Winston. "How many are there?" "Well, sir, when we first noticed them there were seven, and they hadn't been there a moment before." "Seven? You're crazy. There are hundreds." "Yes, sir. I'm crazy. A minute after there were seven, there were seventeen. But no more had come from anywhere. Then there were sixty. We separated them into groups of ten and watched them very closely. None crossed from one group to another, none came from anywhere else. But soon there were fifteen, then twenty-five, then thirty in each group. And there's a lot more of them there now than when you started to talk to me a moment ago, Mr. Winston." "Corcoran is my superior and will be here in a minute," Winston said. "He'll know what to do." "Mr. Corcoran left just before you arrived, sir," said Pothokler. He watched it a while, and then went away babbling." always admired his quick grasp of a situation," said Winston. He also went away babbling. T here were about a thousand of those Skandia people, and a little later there were nine times that many. They weren't dowdy people, but the area wouldn't hold any more. The fences all went down, and the Skandias spread out into the city and towns and country. This was only the beginning of it ialized there that morning, then the same thing happened at ten thousand other Ports of Entry of Earth. "Mama," said Trixie, "there are some people here who want to use our bathroom." This was Beatrice (Trixie) Trux, a little girl in the small town of Winterfield. "What an odd request!" said Mrs. Trux. "But I suppose it is in the nature of an emergency. Let them in, Trixie. How many people are there?" "About a thousand," said Trixie. "Trixie, there can't be that many." "All right, you count them." All the people came in to use the Trux's bathroom. There were somewhat more than a thousand of them, and it took them quite a while to use the bathroom even though they put a fifteen-second limit on each one and had a timekeeper with a bell to enforce it. They did it with a lot of laughter and carrying on, but it took that first bun about five hours to go through, and by that time there were a lot more new ones waiting. "This is a little unusual," Mrs. Trux said to some of the Skandia women. "I was never short on hospitality. It is our physical resources, strained. There are so many of you!" "Don't give it a thought," the Skandia women said. "It is the intent that countt, and it was so kind of you people to invite us. We seldom get a chance to go anywhere. We came a little early, but the main bunch will be along very soon. Don't you just love to go visiting." "Oh, yes, yes," said Mrs. Trux. "I never realized till now just how much I wanted to go visiting." But when she saw the whole outdoors black with the new people, Mrs. Trux decided that she had better stay where she was. T ruman Trux was figuring witfc a pencil. "Our lot is fifty feet by a hundred and fifty feet, Jessica," he said. "That is either # or # square feet depending on how many zeroes you carry it out to." "You were always good at math, said Mrs. Trux. "How do you do il anyhow? "And do you know how many people are living with us here on this lot, Jessica?" Truman asked. "Quite a few. "I am guessing between six and seven thousand," said Truman. "I found several more blocks of them fins morning that I didn't know about. Hiey have a complete city built in our back yard. The streets are two and a half feet wide; the houses are eight feet by eight feet with six foot ceilings, and most of them are nine stories high. Whole families live in each room and cook there besides. They have shops and bazaars set up. They even have factories built. I know there is an entire wholesale textile district in our back yard. There are thirteen taverns and five music halls in our yard to my own knowledge, and there may be more." "Well, some of those places are pretty small, Truman. The Little Hideout is in the broom closet of the Big Hideout, and I don't know if we should count it as a separate tavern. You have to go into the Sideways Club sideways; the Thinman Club is only nihe inches wide from wall to wall and it's quite a trick to bending an elbow there; and the Mouse Room is small. But the better clubs are up in our attic, Truman. Did you ever count them? The Crazy Man Cabaret is up there, and the After Hours Club. Most of the other attic clubs are key clubs and I'm not a member. They've set up the Skandia Art Theatre in our basement now you know. They have continuous performances." "I know it, Jessica, I know it." "Their comedies are so funny that I nearly die. The trouble is that it's so crowded there that you have to laugh in when the one next to you laughs out. And I cry just like they do at their tragedies. They're all about women who can't have any more chfldren. Why don't we have a bunch more, Truman? Thera more than twenty shops in our yard where they sell nothing but fertility charms. I wonder why there arenH any children with the Skandia?" "Ah, they say that this is just a short first visit by a few of them and they didn't presume to bring their children with them. What is that new racket superimposed on the old?" "Oh, that's the big drums and the cymbals. They're having a political campaign to elect temporary officials for the time of their visit here. Imperial City, that's the town in our yard and our house, will elect delegates to go to the Congress to represent this whole block. The elections will be tonight. Then we'll really hear some noise, they say. The big drums don't really waste space, Truman. There are people inside them and they play them from the inside. Some of our neighbors are getting a little fussy about the newcomers, but I always did like a house full of people." "We have it now, Jessica. I never got used to sleeping in a bed with nine other people, even if they are quiet sleepers. I like people, and I am fond of new experiences. But it is getting crowded." "We have more of the Skandia than anyone else in the block except the Skirveys. They say it's because they like us more than some of the others. Mamie Skirvey is taking four kinds of the fertility pills now. She is almost sure she will be able to have triplets. I want to too." "All the stores are stripped, Jessica, and all the lumber yards and IF lumber camps; and the grain elevators will be empty in two more days. The Skandia pay for everything in money, but nobody knows what it says on it. I haven't got used to walking on men and women when I go out, but there's no avoiding it since the ground is covered with them." "They don't mind. They're used to it. They say it's crowded where they come from." T he Winterfield Times-Tribune Telegraph had a piece about the Skandia: The plain fact is that for two days the Earth has had ten billion visitors from Skandia, wherever that is. The plain fact is that the Earth will die of them within a week. They appear by invisible transportation, but they have shown no inclination to disappear in the same manner. Food will be gone, water will be gone, the very air we breathe will be gone. They speak all our languages, they are polite, friendly and agreeable. And we will perish from them. A big smiling man broke in on Bar-Tohn, who was once again president of Big State Amalgamated, formerly U. S. A. "I'm the president of the Skandia Visitation," he boomed. "We have come partly to instruct you people and we find that you do need it. Your fertility rate is pathetic. You barely double in fifty years. Your medicine, adequate in other fields, is worse than childish in this. Wo find that some of the nostrums peddled to your people actually impede fertility. Well, get in the Surgeon General and a few of the boys and we'll begin to correct the situation." "Gedoudahere," said President Bar-John. "I know you will not want your people to miss out on the population blessing," said the Skandia Visitation President. "We can aid you. We want you to be as happy as we are." "Jarvis! Cudgelman! Sapsucker! President Bar-John called out "Shoot down this man. I'll implement the paper work on it later." "You always say that but you never do," Sapsucker complained, "It's been getting us in a lot of trouble." "Oh, well, don't shoot him dowa then if you're going to make an issue of it. I long for the old days when the simple things were done simply. Dammit, you Skandia skinr ner, do you know that there are nine thousand of you in the White House itself?" "We intend to improve that this very hour," the Skandia president said. "Wc can erect one, two, or even three decks in these highceilinged rooms. I am happy to say that we will have thirty thousand of our people quartered in the White House this night." "Do you think I like to take a bath with eight other persons -- not even registered voters -- in the same tub?" President Bar-John complained. "Do you think I like to eat off a plate shared by three or four other people? Or to shave, by mistake, faces other than my own in the morning?" "I don't see why not," said the Skandia Visitation President. "People are our most precious commodity. Presidents are always chosen as being those who most love the people." "Oh, come on, fellows," said President Bar-John. "Shoot down the ever-loving son. We're entitled to a free one now and then." Jarvis and Cudgelman and Sapsucker blazed away at the Skandia, but they harmed him not at all. "You should have known that we are immune to that," the Skandia said. "We voted against its effect years ago. Well, since you will not cooperate, I will go direct to your people. Happy increase to you, gentlemen." T ruman Trux, having gone out from his own place for a little change, was sitting on a park bench. He wasn't actually sitting on it, but several feet above it. In that particular place, a talkative Skandia lady sat on the bench itself. On her lap sat a sturdy Skandiaman reading the Sporting News and smoking . a pipe. On him sat a younger Skandia woman. Chi this younger woman sat Truman Trux, and on him sat a dark Skandia girl who was filing her fingernails and humming a tune. On her in turn sat an elderly Skandia man. As crowded as things had become, one could not expect a seat of one's own. A fellow and his girl came along, walking on the people on the grass. "Mind if we get on?" asked the girl. "Quite all right," said the elderly gentleman on top. "'Sail right," said the girl working on her nails. "Certainly," said Truman and the others, and the Sporting News man puffed into his pipe that it was perfectly agreeable. There was no longer any motor traffic. People walked closely packed on streets and sidewalks. The slow stratum was the lowest, then the medium (walking on the shoulders of the mediums and combining the three speeds). At crossings it became rather intricate, and people were sometimes piled nine high. But the Earth people, those who still went out, quickly got onto the Skandia techniques. An Earthman, known for his extreme views, had mounted onto i monument in the park and began to harangue the people. Earth and Skandia. Truman Trux, who wanted to see and hear, managed to get a nice fifth level seat, sitting on the shoulders of a nice Skandia girl, who sat on the shoulders of another who likewise to the bottom. "Ye are a plague of locusts!" howled the earth-side crank. "Ye have stripped us bare!" "The poor man!" said the Skandia girl who was Truman's understeady. "He likely has only a few children and is embittered." "Ye have devoured our substance and stolen the very air of our life. Ye are the Apocalyptical grasshoppers, the eleventh plague." IF "Here is a fertility charm for your wife,' said the Skandia girl, and reached it up to Truman. "You might not need it yet, but keep it for the future. It is for those who have more than twelve. The words in Skandia say 'Why stop now? It is very efficacious." "Thank you," said Truman. "My wife has many charms from you good people, but not one like this. We have only one child, a young girl." "What a shame! Here is a charm for your daughter. She cannot begin to use them too early." "Destruction, destruction, destruction on ye all!' screamed the Earthside crank from atop the monument. "Quite an adept," said the Skandia girl. "To what school of eloquence does he belong?" The crowd began to break up and move off. Truman felt himself taken down one level and then another. "Any particular direction?" asked the Skandia girl. "This is fine," said Truman. "We're going toward my home." "Why, here's a place fdmost clear," said the girl. "You'd never find anything like this at home." They were now down to the last level, the girl walking only on the horizontal bodies of those lounging on the grass. "You can get off and walk if you wish," said the girl. "Here's a gap in the walkers you can slip down into. Well, toodle." "You mean toodle-oo?" Truman asked as he id off her shoulders. "That's right. I can never remember the last part of it" The Sflcandia were such friendlf people! P resident Bar-John and a dozen other regents of the world had decided that bruskness was called for. Due to the intermingling of Earth and Skandia populations, this would be a task for small and medium arms. The problem would be to gather the Skandia together in open spots, but on the designated day they began to gather ot themof the Earth. It worked perfectly. Army units were posted everywhere and went into action. Rifles began to whistle and machine guns to chatter. But the effect on the Skandia was not that expected. Instead of falling wounded, they cheered everywhere. "Pyrotechnics yet!" exclaimed a Skana leader, mounting onto the monument in our own park. "Oh, we are honored!" But, though the Skandia did not fall from the gunshot, they had begun to diminish in their numbers. They were disappearing as mysteriously as they had appeared a week before. "We go now," said the Skandia leader from the top of the monument. "We have enjoyed every minute of our short visit. Do not despair! We will not abandon you to your emptiness. Our token force will return home and report. In another week we wiH visit you in substantial numbers. We will teach you the full happiness of human proximity, the glory of Crahfiilness, e blessing of adequate population. We will teach you to fill up the horrible empty places of your planet." The Skandia were thinning out. The last of them were taking cheering farewells of disconsolate Earth friends. "We will be back," they said as they passed their last fertility charms into avid hands. "We'll be back and teach you everything so you can be as happy as we are. Good increase to you!" "Good increase to you!" cried the Earth people to the disappearing Skandia. Oh, it would be a lonesome world without all those nice people! With them you had the feeling that they were really close to you. "We'll be back!" said the Skandia leader, and disappeared from the monument. "We'll be back next the monument. "We'll be back next week and a lot more of us," and then they were gone. " -- And next time we'll bring the kids!" came the last fading Skandia Latest and Greatest of the Famed Skylark Stories! Don't miss next month's ft -- beginning -- Skylark DuQuesne The story scfence-flction fans hove been waiting for for yearsi By E. E. Smith, Ph. D. (Author of The Skylark of Space, Galactic This Is thrilKng space adventure at its best, told by the man who showed all other writers howl Starts in June f -- don't miss iti IF IF  Short Stor, ft struck like a wolf from out in space -- and the men were chfenseless against iH T he dark shape, big as a man, come between the two smaikst of the three watchfires, moving in silence like that of sleep. Out of habit, Duncan had been watching that downwind direction, though his mind was heavy with tiredness and with the thoughts of life that came with sixteen summers' age. Duncan raised his spear and howled, and charged the wolf. For a moment the fire-eyes looked steafily at him, appearmg to be a fidl hand apart. Then the wolf turned away; it made one deep questioning sound, and was gone into the darkness out beyond the fires. Duncan stopped, drawing a gasping breath of relief. The wolf would probably have killed him if it had faced his diarge, but it did not yet dare to face him in firelight. The bleeps eyes were on Duncan, a hundred gjowing spots in the huddled mass of the flock. One or two oi the animals bleated softly. He paced around the flock, sleepiness and introspection jarred from his mind. Legends said that men in the old Earthland had animals called dogs that guarded sheep. If that were true, some might think that men were fools for ever leaving Earthland. But sudi thoughts were irreverent, and Duncan's situation called for prayer. Every night now the wolf came, and all too often it killed a sheep. Duncan raised his eyes to the n Bight sky. 'Send me a sign, stargods," he prayed, routinely. But Ihe heavens were quiet. Only the stately fireflies of the dawn zone traced their steady random paths, vanishing halfway up the eastern sky. The stars themselves agreed that three-fourths of the night was gone. The legends said that Earthland was among the stars, but the younger priests admitted such a statement could only be taken symbolically. The heavy thoughts came back, in spite of the nearby wolf. For two years now Duncan had prayed and hoped for his mystical experience, the sign from a god that came to mark the future life of every youth. From what other young men whispered now and then, he knew that many faked their signs. That was all right for lowly herdsmen, or even for hunters. But how could a man without a genuine vision ever be much more than a tender of animals? To be a priest, to study the things brought from old Earthland and saved -- Duncan hungered for learning, for greatness, for things he could not name. He looked up again, and gasped, for he saw a great sign in the sky, almost directly overhead. A point of dazzling light, and then a bright little cloud remaining among the tars. Duncan gripped his spear, watching, for a moment even forgetting the sheep. The tiny cloud welled and faded very slowly. F or centuries now the berserker machines had warred on Earthdescended men. AoComatons loosed in some forgotten war, the machines moved as raiders through the galaxy, destroying whatever life they could find and overcome. One such machine slid out of the interstellar intervals toward Duncan's planet, drawn from afar by the Sol-type light of Duncan's sun. To turn life into death was a berserker's function, and this sun and this planet promised life. The berserker machine was the size of a small planetoid, and its power was immense, but it knew well that some planets were defended, and it bent and slowed its hurtling approach into a long cautious curve. There were no warships in nearby space, but the berserker's telescopes picked out the bright dots of defensive satellites, vanishing into the planet's shadow and reappearing. To probe for more data, the berserker computers loosed a spy missile. The missile looped the planet, and then shot in, testing the defensive net. Lxw over nightside, it turned suddenly into a bright little cloud. Still, defensive satellites formed no real obstacle to a berserker. It could gobble them up almost at leisure if it moved in close to them, though they would stop long-range missiles fired at the planet. It was the other things the planet might have, the buried things, that held rush. Also it was strange that this defended planet had no cities to make light sparks on its nightside, and that no radio signals came from it into space. IF With mechanical caution the berserker moved in, toward the area scouted by the spy missile. I n the morning, Duncan counted his flock -- and then recounted, already scowling. Then he searched until he found the slaughtered lamb. The wolf had not gone hungry after all. That made four sheep lost, now, in ten days. Duncan tried to tell himself that dead sheep no longer mattered so much to him, that with a sign such as he had been granted last night his life was going to be filled with great deeds and noble causes. But the sheep still did matter, and not only because their owners would be angry. Looking up sullenly from the eaten lamb, he saw a brown-robed priest, alone, mounted on a donkey, climbing the long grassy slope of the grazing valley from the direction of the Temple Village. He would be going to pray in one of the Caves in the foot of the mountain at the head of the valley. At Duncan's beckoning wave -- he could not leave the flock to walk far toward the priest -- the man on the donkey changed course. Duncan walked a little way to meet him. "Blessings of Earthland," said the priest shortly, when he came close. He was a stout man who seemed glad to dismount and stretch, arching his back and grunting. He smiled as he saw Duncan's hesitation. "Are you much alone here, my son?" "Yes, Holy One. But -- last night, I had a sign. For two years I've wanted one, and just last night it came." "Indeed? That is good news." The priest's eyes strayed to the mountain, and to the sun, as if he calculated how mucii time he oould spare. But he said, with no sound of impatience: "Tell me about it, if you wish." When he heard that the flash in the sky was Duncan's sign, the priest frowned. Then he seemed to keep himself from smiling. "My son, that light was seen by many. Today the elders of a dozen villages, of most of the Tribe, have come to the Temple Village. Everyone has seen something different in the sky-flash, and I am now going to pray in a Cave, because of it." The priest remounted, but when he had looked at Duncan again, he waited to say: "Still, I was not one of those chosen to see the sky-gods sign; and you were. It may be a sign for you as well as for others, so do not be disappointed if it is not only for you. Be faithful in your duties and signs will come." He turned the donkey away. Feeling small, Duncan walked slowly back to hk flock. How could he have thought that a light seen over half the world was meant for one shepherd? Now his sign was gone, but his wolf remained. I n the afternoon, another figure came into sight, walking straight toward the flock from the direction of Colleen's village. Duncan tightened the belt on his woolen tunic, and combed grass from his hair with #S Us fingers. He felt his chin, and wished his beard would really begin to grow. He was sure the visitor was Colken when she was still half a mile away. He kept his movements calm and made himself appear to first notice her when she came in sight on a hilltop within hailing distance. The wind moved her brown hair and her garments. "Hello, Colleen." "Hello, Duncan the Herdsman. My father sent me to ask about his sheep." He ran an anxious eye over the flock, picking out individuals. Praise be to gods of land and sky. "Your father's sheep are well." She walked closer to him. "Here are some cakes. The other sheep are not well?" Ah, she was beautiful. But no mere herdsman would ever have her. "Last night the wolf killed again." Duncan gestured with empty hands. "I watch, I light fires. I have a pear and a club, and I rush at him when he comes, and I drive him away. But sooner or later he comes on the wrong side of the flock, or a sheep strays." "Another man should come from the village," she said. "Even a boy would help. With a big clever wolf, any herdsman may need help." He nodded, faintly pleased at her implying he was a man. But his troubles were too big to be soothed away. "Did you see the sky-flash, last night?" he asked, remembering with bitterness his joy when he had thought the sign was his. "No, but all the village is talking U about it. I will tell them about the wolf, but probably no man will come to help you for a day or two. They are all dancing and talking, thinking of nothing but the sky-flash." She raised puzzled eyes beyond Duncan. "Look." It was the priest, rushing past half a mile from them on his way Jown valley from the Caves, doing his best to make his donkey gallop toward the Temple Village. "He may have met your wolf," Colleen suggested. "He doesn't look behind him. Maybe in the Caves he received an important sign from the earth-gods." They talked a while longer, sitting on the grass while he ate the jakes she had brought him. "I must go!" She sprang up. The sun was lowering and neither of them had realized it. "Yes, hurry! At night the wolf may be anywhere on the plain." Watching her hurry away, Duncan felt the wolf in his own blood. Perhaps she knew it, for she looked back at him strangely from the hilltop. Then she was gone. O n a hillside, gathering dried brush for the night's watchfires, Duncan paused for a moment, looking at the sunset. "Sky-gods, help me," he prayed. "And earth-gods, the dark wolf should be under your dominion. If you will not grant me a sign, at least help me deal with the wolf." He bent routinely and laid his ear to a rock. Every day he asked some god for a sign, but never -- He heard a voice. He crouched IF there, listening to the rock, unable to believe. Surely it was a waterfall he heard, or running cattle somewhere near. But no, it was a real voice, booming and shouting in some buried distance. He could not make out the words, but it was a real god-voice from under the earth. He straightened up, tears in his eyes, even the sheep for a moment forgotten. This wonderful sign was not for half the world, this was for him! And he had doubted that it would ever come. To hear what it said was allimportant. He bent again and listened. The muffled voice went on unceasingly, but he could not understand it. He ran a few steps up the hill, and put his ear against another exposed earth-bone of rock. Yes, the voice was plainer here; sometimes he could distinguish a word. "Give," said the voice. Mumble, mumble. "Defend," he thought it said. Even the words he recognized where spoken in strange accents. He realized that darkness was falling, and stood up, in fearful indecision. The sheep were itill his responsibility, and he had to Ught watchfires, he had to, for the sheep would be slaughtered without them. And at the same time he had to listen to this voice. A form moved toward him through the twilight, and he grabbed up his club -- then he realized it was Colleen. She looked frightened. She whispered: "The sun went down, and I feared the dark. It was a shorter way back to you, than on to the village." The berserker moved in toward the nightside of the planet, quickly now, but still with caution. It had searched its memory of thousands of years of war against a ihoLisarid kinds of life, and it had remembered one other planet like this, with defensive satellites but no cities or radios. The fortifiers of that planet had fought among themselves weakening until they could no longer operate their defenses, had even forgotten what their planet-weapons were. The life here might be shamming, trying to lure the berserker within range of the planet-weapons. Therefore the berserker sent its mechanical scouts ahead, to break througii the satellite net, and range ovcf provoked the planet's maximum response. T he fires were built, and Colleen held the spear and watched the sheep. Wolf or not, Duncan had te follow his sign. He made his way up the dark hillside, listening at rock after rock. And ever the earth-god voice grew stronger. In the back of his mind Duncaa realized that Colleen had arranged to be trapped with him for the night, to help him defend the sheep, and he felt limitless gratitude and love. But even that was now in the back of his mind. The voice now was everything. He held his breath, listening. Now he could hear the voice while he stood erect. There, ahead, at the foot of a cliff, were slabs of rock tumbled down by snowslides. Among them migit be a cave. He reached the slabs, and heard the voice rumble up between them. "Attack in progress. Request human response. Order one requested. This is defense control. Attack in progress -- " On and on it went. Duncan understood some of it. Attack, request, human. Order one requested -- that must mean one wish was to be granted, as in the legends. Never again would Duncan laugh at legends, thinking himself wise. This was no prank of the other young men; no one could hide in a cave and shout on and on in such a voice. No one but a priest should enter a cave, but probably not even the priests knew of this one. It was Duncan's, for his sign had led him here. He had been granted a tremendous sign. More awed than fearful, he slid between slabs of rock, finding the way down, rock and earth and then metal under his feet. He dropped Into a low metal cave. It was as he had heard the god-caves described, very long, smooth, round and regular, except here where it was bent and tom under the fallen rocks. In the cave's curving sides were glowing places, like huge animal eyes, giving light enough to see. And here the shouting was very loud. Duncan moved toward it. We have reached the surface, the scouts radioed back to the berserker, in their passionless computersymbol language. Here intelligent life of the earth-type lives in villages. So far we have killed eight hundred and thirty-nine units. We have met no response from dangeruu wc; jons. A little while the berserker waited, letting the toll of life-units mount. When the chance of this planet's being a trap had dropped in computer-estimation to the vanishing point, the berserker moved in to close range, and began to mop the remaining defensive satellites out of its way. # Y Tere I am." Duncan fell on XA his knees before the metal thing that bellowed. In front of the god-shape lay woven twigs and eggshells, so old as to be hardly more than dust. Once priests had sacrificed here, and then they haJ forgotten this god. "Here I am," said Duncan again, in a louder voice. The god heeded him, for the deafening shouting stopped. "Response acknowledged, from defense control alternate #," said the god. "Planetary defenses now under control of post #." How could you ask a god to speak naore plainly? After a little time of silence, the god said: "Request order one." That seemed understandable, but to make sure, Duncan asked: "You will grant me one wish, mighty one?" "Will obey your order. Emergency. Satellite sphere ninety per cent destroyed. Planet-weapon responses fully programmed, activation command requested." Duncan, still kneeling, closed his eyes. One wish would be granted. TTie rest of the words he took for a warning to choose his wish with IF atre. If he wished, the god would make him the wisest of chiefs, or Ihe bravest of warriors. The god would give him a hundred years of fife, or a dozen young wives. Or Colleen. But Colleen was out in the darkless, now, facing the wolf. Even Bear, just beyond the circles of firefight, watching the sheep, and watchlag the tender girl. Even now Colleen might be screaming -- Duncan's heart sank utterly, for he knew the wolf had beaten him, had destroyed this moment on which Ac rest of his life depended. He was a herdsman. And if he could make himself forget the sheep, he could not want to forget Colleen. "Destroy the wolf! Kill it!" he dioked out. "Term wolf questioned." "The killer! To destroy the killer! That is the only wish I can make!" He could stand the presence of the god no longer, and ran away through the cave, weeping for his ruined fife. He ran to find Colleen. R ecall, shouted the electronic voice of the berserker. Trap. Recall. Hearing, its scattered bro of scout machines rose at top acceleration from their planet work, curving and climbing toward their great metal mother. Too slow. They blurred into streaks, into fireworks of incandescent gas. The berserker was not waiting for them, it was diving for deep sace, knowing the planetweapons reached out for it. It wasted no circuits now to compute why so much life had been sacrificed to trap it. It saw new force fields thrown up ahead of it, walling it in. No escape. The whole sky was in flames, the bones of the hills shuddered underfoot, and at the head of the valley the top of the mountain was torn away and an enormous shaft of something almost invisible poured from it infinitely up into the sky. Duncan saw (Eileen huddling on the open ground, shouting to him, but the buried thunder drowned her voice. The sheep were running and leaping, crying under the terrible sky. Duncan saw the dark wolf among them, running with them in circles, too frightened to be a wolf. He picked up his club and ran, staggering with the shaking earth, after the beast. He caught the wolf, for he ran toward it, while it ran in circles without regard for him. He saw the sky reflected in its eyes, facing him, and he swung his club just as it crouched to leap. He won. And then he struck again and again, making sure. All at once there was a blue-white, moving sun in the sky, a marvelous sun that in a minute turned red, speading itself out to vanish in the general glow. Then the earth was still at last. Duncan walked in a daze, until ho saw Colleen trying to round up the sheep. Then he waved to her, and trotted after her to help. The wolf was dead, and he had a wonderful sign to tell. The gods had not killed him. Beneath his running feet, the steadiness of the ground seemed IF  Novelette Way Station They coufd not five outside the sheltering walls of the dome -- nor could they survive inside iti I Haywood person," she A said, "has been teaching young people that they can go outside Marstation without a sacred helmet." Eunice Mackdee, a sloppy, fat woman, was clearly a fanatic -- she admitted belonging to the ultraconservative Orthodox Scientists -- yet her voice was surprisingly calm. "You have evidence of this, Mrs. Mackdee?" the chief scientist asked. "Enough, including the testimony of my own son." Ponderously the chief scientist turned toward Bruce Haywood. "Do you wish at this time to make a statement in your own defense?" "Defense, sir?" Bruce Haywood laughed uneasily. "But it's ridiculous. We're all scientists at Marstation. We have the irrevocable right to the free expression of ideas -- " "Only in terms of the principles of science." "The issue here, sir, is freedom to think!" "Will you give me a straight answer? Have you been teaching young people to go outside Marstation without their sacred helmets?" Haywood hesitated. In the conflict between orthodoxy and the abstract ideal of truth, what was an honest answer? Taking advantage of his hesitation, Mrs. Mackdee volunteered : 'T want it clearly understood that I have no personal feeling of vengeance for this Haywood person. My on is lost to Orthodox Science; I accept that. But as a mother I have a duty to save other innocent, young minds from his kind of teaching." "Don't be an absolute ass, Mrs. Mackdee!" Haywood exclaimed. "We're all lost if we continue to tie ourselves to rituals we no longer understand." "Orthodox Scientists," she responded in cold dignity, "have no doubt about the rituals." "Some of us aren't even sure why we're here at Marstation," Haywood countered. "To service interplanetary craft ft "Which have not landed at our port in six centuries!" Haywood reminded her. Pursing her lips so that she appeared to be smiling benignly, Mrs. Mackdee turned toward the chief icientist. "Isn't it an appropriate time to begin the formal hearing?" T he chief scientist sighed and slipped the sacred, ritual helmet over his head, indicating that he would hereafter be functioning in his official capacity as the religious and political leader of the community. He glanced at the brief which Mrs. Mackdee had submitted. "Your first witness, I take it, it Ted Brand?" "Yes -- one of Haywood's boyhood friends." Ted Brand entered the hearing room and took the oath on the sacred books of science, swearing that he would give nothing but objectively factual scientific evidence. He sat rigidly in the chair facing the chief scientist. Throughout his testimony, Brand stared directly at his inquisitor, never allowing his glance to stray in Bruce Haywood's direction. Reading from a card which ho held nervously in his hand, Ted Brand said, "Bruce Haywood and I lived in the south sector, near the perimeter of Marstation, when we were kids. Sometimes after our regular, daily training periods in the ritual we would go to an abandoned playground which was built close to the base of the airseal dome over Marstation. It was here..." Vividly Haywood remembered those carefree days of childhood, before he had started training as a teacher of the scientific ritual. He liked to go to that abandoned playground because there he had an unobstructed view of the arid, red desert outside Marstation. To him it did not appear a barren waste, but rather hospitable and fertile because of the green lichen growing on the red soil and along the banks of the dry river beds, as straight as if they had been carved like canals upon the face of the planet. Mrs. Mackdee asked Brand if Haywood had ever touched one of the broad, alumimim beams which formed the airseal dome above Marstation. While such an act was now illegal -- one of several sacrileges recently prohibited by the code of law which the Orthodox Scientists had persuaded the government to authorize -- it had not been a crime when Haywood was a boy. Had he touched the beam? Of course, several times and in Brand's presence, as Brand testified at the hearing. And once Haywood had done more. I t happened late in the afternoon. Haywood climbed to the top of a rusting jungle gym. The joint formed by a beam and a horizontal supporting girder was directly above him. He could reach it easily. He fingered the rivets while he examined the edges of the beams. The dome was like an enormous, latticed window, built in the shape of a huge hemisphere. Yet in the open spaces between the beams there was no visible material, like the pieces of window glass carefully preserved in the museum of the temple of science. What, then, sealed the air within Marstation, walling out the thin atmosphere of the planet? A curtain of atomic energy, said the Orthodox Scientists. For all Haywood knew they could be right. The sacred books of science were crowded with references to the power of the atom. Atomic energy was somehow created in the sealed reactors which were the only source of power in Marstation. The scientists -- and every citizen of tihe station was a scientist -- took the power for granted, but no one knew what an atom was; nor was it permissible to make scientific investir gation of the data in the texts. In the remote past St. Einstein had stolen the secret of the atom from the gods; that was all man needed to know about it. Bruce Haywood clung to the aluminum beam searching the metal for any sign of an outlet from which the protective curtain of invisible atoms might be projected. He had made the same test before; as always, he found nothing. If there were no outlet, did it follow that the curtain of atoms did not exist? Haywood had always been taught that atomic power would, in an instant, destroy any material object it touched. He took from his pocket a tiny spool of magnetic tape on which he recorded his ritual assignments from the learning center, and he dropped the spool through the opening in the airseal dome. Nothing happened. The tape slid down the beam, bounced on the red earth outside, and rolled back under the dome. Ted Brand had seen it all; Haywood was certain of that. At Haywood's hearing. Brand completed his testimony by referring to that same incident. UTi was a clever trick, of course. Xl never understood how Bruce made it look as if that spool of tape' had actually passed through the dome unharmed. We all know that impossible; the tape would have been burned to a crisp. So I simply wouldn't ask Bruce how he did it; I didn't want him to think I had been taken in by a trick." IF "Do you consider this recital of gossip evidence?" Haywood demanded of the chief scientist when Brand had been dismissed from the stand. "Mr. Haywood," the chief retorted, "I must remind you that this is a formal hearing. You have the right to respond to a direct question if you choose; but you may not interrupt the proceedings to make comments upon the testimony." He looked at the Mackdee brief again. "The next witness is Dr. Will Storm." "He volunteered his testimony," Eunice Mackdee said in pride. And he's the type that would, Haywood thought; old Stormy was just the type. An aging, red-faced man entered the hearing room and, after having ceremoniously bowed to the panel of judges, seated himself in the witness chair. Beaming at them all, he adjusted his jacket so that they could see his lapel pin, a replica of the sacred helmet worn by citizens who had been publicly honored by the Orthodox Scientists. "I am both awed and honored that my opinion should be sought by so august a body of scientists," Dr. Storm began in the magnificent organ bellow which had made him so impressive a figure to many of his students. Not to Haywood, though, who thought the doctor was a bumbling farce, hypnotized by the sound of his own voice. He had the not unusual skill among teachers of churning out words by the hour, yet saying nothing; but his role of the learned philosopher was so perfectly stereotyped few of his students ever suspected his quackery. "It is my earnest hope tiiat I may adequately satisfy your inquiry into this tragic situation, while at the same time I do no injustice to my former student, Bruce Haywood," Storm continued, still beaming, "though I must admit I am not at all surprised to find Haywood having problems. An experienced teacher -- and as you know I've been teaching for twenty years -- is an expert judge of human nature; and I must admit that from the first day when Bruce Haywood was assigned to my group, I had serious doubts about his qualifications... n T hat first day: Haywood remembered it clearly. Only three years had passed since he had enrolled in the final learning group which he was required to pass before entering the Temple of Science as a probationary teacher. Haywood was in his early twenties then, a quiet, introspective youth still trying to rationalize answers to the annoying questions that plagued his mind. The class met in a large lecture hall on the top floor of the Temple -- five students and a teacher in a room designed to accommodate three hundred. After listening to the first few minutes of Storm's opening lecture Haywood concluded that the professor had nothing to say. StealAily he slid his chair toward the side of the hall, until he was able to peer through the glassless winIF dow at Ac chy beneath Ae dome and the red desert surrounding it. From the highest floor of Ac Temple the distant blue hills seemed closer and more inviting than ever. What lay behind them? What lay past the curve of the horizon? Haywood felt imprisoned within the city, held captive in a microscopic bubble fixed to the surface of the vast and beautiful world. Why had Marstation been built originally? Who had established the routines of science and for what reason? Was it all the pointless distortion of myth or was it simply a misunderstanding of fact? So much that was printed in the sacred scientific books vas obviously nonsense -- the mathematics involving gravity, for example, since Ae measurable force at Marstation was considerably less than that assumed in the texts. But Haywood couldn't quite bring himself to reject all of science because of its more obvious errors; such thinking resembled too closely the fanaticism of the Orthodox Scientists. But how was truA to be sifted from the sacred texts? Suddenly Haywood became aware of a dead silence. He focused his attention again upon Dr. Storm, uncomfortably aware that the teacher was glaring at him coldly. "And how would you present Ae problem, Mr. Haywood?" "Sorry, sir," he apologized. "I didn't hear the question." "So we have a slow learner with us, I see." Storm beamed and the other students knew this was their cue to laugh, which Aey did dutifully. "You may find it necessary to do considerable extra work, Mr. Haywood, to keep up with the class." "I shall do what I am assigned, sir." "Indeed, I should hope so -- if you mean to be graduated with your class. By tomorrow I expect you to commit to memory the first five pages in the sacred text of 'St. Darwin. You will use the full text, which is in the Temple library, rather than the summary editions which you have been accustomed to reading in the past." H aywood was delighted by the assignment of the extra work, for it was the first time in his life that he was granted access to the library in the Temple of Science. Freedom to use the original texts was to him the one worthwhile result of Storm's class. He not only memorized the designated pages, but read on in St. Darwin's lxok until the library was closed for the night. Among the texts brought from earth by the founders, the mystic -- and perhaps magic -- volumes written by St. Einstein and St. Darwin were the best known and the least understood. The men were both said to have been outstanding chief scientists on earth, since their names were so often cited in the l:sser known sacred texts. Of the two, St Darwin was the least comprehensible to both teacher and student, for he wrote of a voyage he had taken by floating upon a vast body of water. Since it was clearly impossible for such a quantity of water to exist -- according to calculations made by the mathematicians in the Temple, the weight of it would crush the thin outer crust of any planet -- St. Darwin's expedition was clearly a symbolic presentation of scientific fact. The riddle buried in the symbolism intrigued Haywood, as it had hundreds of scholars before his time. Why would so great a chief scientist have chosen to express his ideas in imagery thait was not only absurd but also repugnant to the average reader? As the year passed, Haywood took every opportunity, even repeated additional assignments from Dr. Storm, to read in the Temple library. Beyond St. Darwin he expanded his interests to other books which had been brought to Marstation by the founders. The basic sacred texts of technology did not interest him, but Haywood was fascinated by the material which the librarians classified as mystical writing. These texts were never given as assignments, and they were almost never read. In the course of time the students in Storm's class were issued their sacred helmets in a solemn ceremony conducted by the chief scientist. Following the blessing and the usual prayers, each man in Haywood's group pulled his helmet over his head. In single file they marched after Dr. Storm toward the airlock exit from the station. We're like knights, Haywood thought, recalling one of the books he had read in the library. It gave him a sense of identification witii the long history of earth, and the insight helped him understand hit own world better. The five students followed Storm to the launching pad and the service buildings which stood on the desert soil some distance outside the city. Without a hitch they went through the ritual of running the complex machinery of a space port Blindly each man performed a specific skill. Perhaps he no longer understood the reason for his job or the machine he ran, but that hardly mattered. H aywood watched the agricultural technicians who were working the farmed acres which lay between the station and the launching pad. Narrow poles carried a spiral of feathery, metal filaments high above the furrows; these poles were familiar devices used for collecting water from the frost which settled on the red planet after dark. A splitsecond shock of heat through the metal pole transformed the frost into minute drops of water, which slid down the filaments, through the hollow pile, and into insulated tanks below. Regularly, twenty times each hour during the bitterly cold night, the precious water dripped into the tanks. Haywood realized abruptly that this source of water must have been invented to meet the conditions existing on the red planet. None of the texts which he had read in the library -- and by that time he had broused through hundreds -- mentioned that there was any need on earth for a special water collection. IF This suggested that water on earth might exist in such abundance that earth people took it for granted. When his learning group had been taken outside the dome for two consecutive weeks to practice their rituals, Dr. Storm began to relax his close supervision. Haywood seized upon this opportunity to wander off from the others, far enough so that no one would necessarily see what he was up to. Thus alone, he made the vital test. He removed his helmet and kept it off for several minutes. As he had surmised, the globe about his head was more hinderance than help. He breathed more easily the clear, cold air of the red planet; it was invigorating, and far from harmful. He had the proof at last. But proof of what? If men could live as easily, without the dome and without the helmet, why had they been necessary to the founders? Haywood had the feeling that understanding was on the fringe of his mind, just beyond his grasp. But he couldn't clarify his thinking, except for a vague conviction that the answer was in the mystical writings of St. Darwin. m Xf was not, in the end, the gospe! JL of St. Darwin or even Haywood's own experience with the helmet that gave him his first real clue to the truth, but rather a forgotten pamphlet on child care. No text in the library coetalned ,a picture of a man; the founders had, perhaps understandably, considered it pointless to give valuable space to the obvious. But in the dusty, aging, faded pamphlet Haywood found a brief description of a newborn child, The small, helpless, pink-skinned infant, with its short, stubby arms and legs, its head so disproportionately large relative to the trunk of the body..." A cold shock shuddered through Haywood's mind. In almost those identical words his mother had once described her child who died of the bleeding sickness. Pink skin; large head; these always characterized the deformed monstrosities which never survived birth at Marstation. But this was the normid earth child, not a monstrosity! There was no bleeding sickness, then -- merely the reaction of a normal infant to an unendurable environment. We're the deformed, Haywood thought, nauseated by disgust with himself. We've changed physically so that we can survive. 'He raced back to the gospel of St. Darwin, and poured over the pages, intuitively fitting together the logical struo ture of an ancient earth science. Survival of the fittest; natural selection; adaptation. Adaptation! Now he knew the truth and his nausea was gone. How foolish to be disgusted by the change an organism made within itself, putting itself up by the bootstraps in order to survive! What a magnificent thing was man, to meet the challenge of a new environment and to maintain a foothold of life on a strange, new world. In a vague way, without losing his newly tounv leirniie uion with the past, Haywood he 'an to see himself as a man ol this new world. This was his home, no longer the earth from which his fathers had come. Haywood and his people were on the threshold of a new world, a new experience, a greatness still to be defined -- if only they would break away from the traditions and the rituals that held them confined within the useless dome of Marstation. It was then that Haywood realized how fortunate he was to be trained for teaching. He might, otherwise, have wasted a lifetime trying to persuade the chief scientist or the directors of the Temple to understand the insights which seemed so clear to him. The rituals of the Orthodox Scientists had imposed too many controls upon the thinking of adults. But children, still forming their ideas, might understand; as a teacher, Haywood could reach their young minds and give them the fresh, new world which the Orthodox Scientists were blindly rejecting. F rom the witness chair at the hearing Dr. Storm gave an unfavorable opinion of Haywood as a moody; not the sort of lad to join in the games and horseplay with the other kids. I always say, you can't trust people who think too much," he concluded. "What of his work?" the chief scientist inquired. "Unusually good," Storm admitted -- to Haywood's surprise, since his grades had been poor. But Storm added, beaming again at the judges, "However, as I always say, excellent scholarship is not the best recommendation for a teacher. In the teaching profession we need outgoing folks who can understand and adjust; most important, they must be good disciplinarians." "You had disciplinary trouble with Haywood?" "I, sir, have never had trouble disciplining a pupil. However, as soon as Haywood's .group began the actual practice of the ritual..." Mrs. Mackdee gasped. There was a stir of muttered disbelief among the judges. The chief scientist asked, "At that time. Dr. Storm, did you report that Haywood had removed his helmet in violation of the ritual?" "No, sir; I always had some doubt about Haywood's qualification as a teacher -- and, of course, this hearing indicates how right I was -- but -- " "Dr. Storm, why didn't you report Haywood directly to me?" "I was trying to be too objective, T suppose, too scientific in my attitude. T disliked Haywood; I thought he was far too independent minded to make a good teacher. Consequently, I bent over backward to give him the benefit of every doubt." "You still haven't answered my question, sir." "The truth is, I -- I didn't exactly see Haywood with the helmet off. I just had the impression that he had removed it." "Then, in essence. Dr. Storm," the chief scientist summarized, "your actual evidence against Haywood IF amounts to nothing. You noted no real violation of the ritual and -- " "But I formed opinions, sir. As I told you, I'm an excellent judge of people." I've never been wrong before." "Your comments. Dr. Storm, have no doubt been instructive, but unfortunately lacking in objective data." Mrs. ,Mackdee intervened. "Ask him! Ask this Haywood person if he had his helmet off outside of the station." For some seconds the chief scientist studied Haywood's face in silence and Haywood wondered how he would reply to the direct question. The penalty for perjury was no less severe than the penalty for conviction of heresy, and if he told the truth there was a remote diance that someone in the hearing room might understand him. The idea of ultimate freedom for the people confined beneath the dome would then not be lost, whatever sentence was imposed upon Haywood. H owever, he was not given the opportunity to reply to the question, for the chief scientist turned toward Mrs. Mackdee and asked : "Do you believe he took his helmet off outside?" "Of course not; ,he would have died at once." "Then it's a foolish question to ask, don't you think?" "But he's trying to persuade young people to do precisely that!" "We must establish more positive proof, Mrs. Mackdee." The chief scientist glanced impatiently at his watch. "I hope we can conclude this hearing before the graduation ceremonies this afternoon -- for your owr son's group, by the way, Mrs. Mackdee. In order to save time, I suggest that we hear your son's testimony now." "I object," Eunice Mackdee replied. "I intend to prove that other students have been taught these same insidious lies as well as my Ray." "Your son's evidence will be quite sufficient." "I want H understood that I have no personal feeling of vindictiveness toward this Haywood person." "As you have told us, Mrs. Mackdee." "I am simply doing my duty as a citizen and as an Orthodox Scientist." "Of course -- and as a concerned mother." "I have nothing but objective love for this unfortunate and misguided teacher. I would be overjoyed if, as a result of this hearing, we might make him comprehend the deep error of -- " "Then, naturally, you have no objection if we hear your son's testimony now." The chief scientist made an impatient gesture, and the guard escorted Ray Mackdee into the hearing room. The boy was small for his age, nervous and frightened. Like Ted Brand, he refused to look in Haywood's direction. Haywood was sure Ray would betray him, perhaps because he was frightened by the grim determination of his mother; or perhaps because, when he had to make a final choice, he was afraid tm consider any truth which opposed the teaching of Orthodox Science. It was a pity, Haywood thought, for Ray Mackdee was the smartest student -- potentially the best future leader -- whom Haywood had taught during his three years as a probationary teacher. L earning groups in the Temple of Science were divided into three types: superior groups, designated as the Talented, which trained students in the most complex rituals of science; average groups, learning the technical skills; and the Basics, where students were capable of learning only the simplest, service rituals such as community maintenance, argriculture and teaching. To assign the most inadequate teachers to the Talented students and the most capable to the Basics was one of the oldest traditions in Marstation brought by the first colonists from earth. This was the Doctrine of St. Conant, said to be the only truly democratic form of education. "The Talented can learn despite the teacher," or so Orthodox Scientists declared, quoting a popular aphorism attributed to St. Conant, "but Basic groups require the skills of the most capable and the most experienced teachers." Largely because of Dr. Storm's lukewarm recommendation, Bruc: Haywood had been assigned to teach the Talented. During the three yen i s of his probationary teaching he In I subtly directed them to areas of research calculated to plant in Ihcir minds considerable doubt of the infallibility of Orthodox Science. Haywood was sure that, if Mrs. Mackdee were permitted to call other students to add their testimony to her son's, she could more than prove her charges, even though, in an exact, legal sense, she would be wrong; for Haywood had done nothing in the classroom that was not properly related to the course of study. In the beginning Ray Mackdec made a poor, perhaps a foolish witness. He stammered and he seemed imsure of himself. Repeatedly his mother interrupted him to put words ki his mouth. In a dead monotone, without emotion, he obediently recited what she told him to say. "Did Mr. Haywood ever advise you to go outside Marstation without your sacred helmet?" the chief scientist asked Ray. "Not in so many words, but -- " "Of course he did!" Eunice Mackdee snapped. Mackdee, let your y son tell it in his own way." "I am only doing my duty!" "You have already made that qoke clear, Mrs. Mackdee. Now, on, explain what your teacher did tell you about the outside." "First, he assigned us to read old books in the library." Mrs. Mackdee interjected, "Not the sacred texts of Orthodox Jience; remember that." "Our teachers and students have always been free to use any available reading material in their research," the chief scieotist reminded her. "Something shall have to be done about that," she declared. "To put such questionable material into the hands of young people -- " "But there is no restrictive regulation at the present time," he reminded her. "We can hardly ask our judges to convict Mr. Haywood oi breaking a rule which doesn't yet exist." "All this legal quibbling -- ifs simply an evasion of the truth. This Haywood person has systematicaUy betrayed our children and you cannot argue that fact away." "That is not my intention. I merely hope to get at some sort of objective fact we can use. Please continue, son. After you completed your reading, what happened?" "In my learning group we discussed the research." "Was Mr. Haywood present?" "Yes, but he never said much. He just let us talk." Mrs. Mackdec broke in again. "And, as I got the story from Ray, these kids brought up all sorts  issues -- questioning the most fundamental truths of Orthodox Science. I have kept as evidence one of Ray's papers In which he tried to prove there is no curtain of atomic energy radiating from the beams in the dome above Marstation. The teacher not only accepted that balderdash, but he gave Ray a good grade for it." "We encourage freedom of expression, Mrs. Mackdee." "Only when it is based upon the facts of Orthodox Science." "We still have no evidence -- " "Let Ray teH you the rest of it I" he interrupted. n #TV Tr. Haywood used to' talk iVAover our papers with us after he graded them. He kept telling us never to believe in something nmply because we wanted it to be true. He said eve scientific truth had to be tested constantly by repeated experiment." "There's nothing wrong with that, son." "Several times he used the dome over Marstation as an example. He said, if we could prove there was no curtain of energy between the beams, then -- then the air outside the station would be no different from that inside. And if diat were true, we could live anywhere on the planet, free of the dome and without sacred helmets." "Do you understand now," Mrs. Mackdee demanded, "what this Haywood person has been teaching?" The chief scientist turned sadly toward Haywood. "Is this true?" he asked. "In the classroom, I taught only the material approved by the directors of the Temple of Science," Haywood replied. "Then you deny -- " "Oh, that's quite correct," Ray Mackdee volimteered. "Mr. Haywood never talked about die dome or the outside unless we went to visit him after class." "At his home, Ray?" "Yes." "Did Mr. Haywood invite you for these discussions?" "No. He's just a real, nice guy, and he'd take the time to diat wiih n US. "So these discussions took place away from the learning center and not as part of any required assignment. Is this how it happened, Mr. Haywood?" "As a teacher," Haywood said "I'm responsible to you and to die directors of the Temple for oidy what I do as part of my formal classroom work." "There!" Mrs. Mackdee pointed out triumphantly. "He's as much ae admitting the whole thing." # #XTonetheless, Mrs. Mackdee, what Mr. Haywood does ou side the temple is his own business." "Do you mean to tell me he is privileged to teach children to doubt the Orthodox rituals?" "He hasn't broken any law." "You're splitting hairs! I intend to see to it -- " "This is an area where we'll need tighter regulations in the future, I suppose. The hearing, Mrs. Mackdee, has shown us several weaknesses in the structure of Temple authority. The directors will, I f sure, make some revisions in the basic law as a result of our findings." "I want this Haywood person punished!" "I realize he has been too friendly with his students and thereby too effective, perhaps, as a teacher -- too much of an inspiration to young people; even so, what can we do?" "Remove him from the classroom, at least." "Naturally. He'll have to submit to retraining for another ritual." "And prohibit him further use of the temple library." "Absolutely. Mr. Haywood has misused the tools of research to arrive at conclusions incompatible with the convictions of Orthodox Science." Bruce Haywood sat paralyzed by frustration and anger while they settled his future. This defeat seemed so futile; so sit in silence while this fanatic woman destroyed him -- because he had practiced an ideal of science which the Orthodox Scientists recited as the keystone of their doctrine. Test truth by experiment -- how the scientists could reel off those words to ornament any occasion! Words. Words empty of meaning, the incantations of savages. Haywood's punishment left him numb. Retraining for another ritual? What else could he do? What else did he want to learn? He was a teacher because his fathers before him had been teachers. He had never for a moment considered any other career. And now Eunice Mackdee, this fat, vindictive woman, had taken it from him. A sentence of death would have been kinder. "Too friendly, too effective as a teacher," the chief scientist had said, denying the very skills most ardently sought among those selected for training 'in the teaching ritual. Routed by the aggressive determination of one fanatic, the chief scientist laid bare the spineless, vascilating nature of the Temple administration. IV H aywood's hearing ended ten minutes before the graduation exercises were held in the public arena which adjoined the airlock exit from the dome. Though his teaching career was over, Bruce Haywood attended the service, as he had for every graduation since his boyhood. The solemn dedication to youth to service, truth and justice had always symbolized a great deal to him. It was hard for Haywood to make himself believe that this was his last graduation; he would never be admitted to the Temple again. He had fought, no doubt very badly, against ignorance, and ignorance had won handily, without much of a struggle. Before the chief scientist introduced the graduates, among them Ray Mackdee, he gave his usual oration, a sentimental blend of pretty phrases about democracy, man's right to the free expression of ideas, and the dedication of science to truth. The blatant hypocrisy made Haywood almost physically sick, but then he realized that the hypocrisy had always been there, in every graduation address. He recognized it, now, only because of hi bitterness over the result of his hearing. Who, then, was at fault? Not the chief scientist, for he had always been a consistent, plodding uninspired compromiser. Not Mrs. Mackdee, the honest fanatic of Orthodox Science. Tm responsible -- the thought took Haywood by surprise. We're all to blame. We have made of Marstation exactly the restricted prison isn't what each of us wants, but wc haven't the courage to fight for something better. I f Haywood had the courage of his convictions, it was time he took some definite action that would demonstrate his convictions as effectively as Mrs. Mackdee dramatized hers. But what could he do? Leap to the speaker's platform, perhaps, seize the microphone from the chief scientist, and explain away the imaginary curtain of atoms. Not words; words were the weapons of the fanatics. Test truth by experiment! He could demonstrate, obviously and clearly, that the dome was open to the atmosphere of the red planet. Haywood left his seat and walked toward the platform, which was built close to the base of the dome. The aluminum girders curved upward only inches above the speaker's head. In full view of that audience, Haywood intended to climb a beam and swing himself in and out of the dome. He reached the platform. The chief scientist shot an angry, annoyed glance at Haywood, but went on with his oration. Haywood raised his hands toward a beam. He pulled himself through the opening and sat on the outer surface of the beam, dangling his feet into the station. He had expected a reaction, perhaps screams of panic from the audience, but there was nothing. He lowered himself to the platform and grabbed a chair, hauling it through the dome with him. He banged it on the beam to attract attention, but still there was no response from the audience. Exasperated, he leaped to the platform, seized the microphone from the chief scientist, and screamed into it. "Don't you see what I'm doing? There is no atomic curtain! These is no dome! You're free to go where -- " There was brief, angry pandemonium in the audience. Guards seized Haywood and dragged him away. "Confinement, sir?" "No, final disposal, I think," tiis chief scientist said. I nstead of being frightened by the sentence of death, Haywood was relieved. It was more considerate than the decision at the hearing to remove him forever from teaching. With nothing further to lose, ha broke away from the guards and tried to reach the microphone again. He had a fleeting impression of the chief scientist's face close to his, twisted in an agony of compassion. Then Haywood felt the stab of a needle. Sharp pain, dizzy nausea; nothing. Disposal. So this was death. But slowly the black mist lifted. Slowly he became aware of sensar tion. First the customary chill ci night cold! then the hard ground beneath his back. He opened his eye. He stood up slowly, trembling for a moment in the blast of sub-zero wind. Thep the loose folds of hk skin hardened into the familiar, thick ridges -- his people, for some reason, called these goosebumps -- which automatically sealed in his body warmth and made him quite IF comfortable in the icy night air of the red planet. On the horizon he saw the dome of Marstation and nearby the useless towers of the space port, sharply silhouetted against the light reflected mto the night sky. Near where he had been lain on the earth to die -- the usual sentence of disposal passed by the judges of Marstation -- Haywood found a knapsack of dried food and a canteen of water. An unsigned note was tucked beneath the knapsack. "People believe what they will," he read. "Sometimes a belief happens to correspond roughly to the truth; more often it doesn't. You proved that to yourself this afternoon. No one in that audience saw you outside the dome, because they knew as an absolute law of science that no man could survive the passage through the. curtain of aitomic energy. be the first people   anywhere to have devdoped our particuiar distortion oi reality in terms of objective science, though I doubt it. While you were under sedation this afternoon we picked your brain clean. The thinking that 'led you to accept reafily has been recoiled and filed ib the Temple library. It is there, now, for anyone to find it who will read it and understand k -- tomorrow, or a century from now. That is all we can do. If we attempt to destroy the science of Marstation, we run the risk of destroying the colony with it. Man has a need for a rkiial and a purpose, you said that yourself. And it is important to us to save this colony. Nine hundred of us in a single settlement which once housed twenty thousand -- and, for all wa know, we may be the only survivors of mankind anywhere in the universe. "It is my understanding that the others who have gone before you have built a city beyond the mountains. This is a new world for man, a new beginning. Perhaps this time we can keep it a good world, if first we must bum away our neurotic pretentions under the dome of Marstation before we can accept the fact of an outside world. Good luck, Mr. Haywood. Take your place in your world with pride; you've earned it" Carefully Haywood folded the letter and ahpped k mto his pocket Shouldering the kmpsack and the canteen, he turned toward the range of mountakis. On long, why legs he moved in a loping stride across the desert, maintaining an easy, eightfoot pace in order to oonserve his streng. With the enormous globe erf his diest md, in eontrast the tiny here of his hairy head bobbing graedesdy ahoee lii Haywood seemed a fRilesque distortion of man. Yet, he lind adap i ril He felt entirdy at home, ior ttm red planet was his world to wideh he brought a satisfying kkntffioidlon wkh all the history erf man -- somehow, with only the best that had been man, for the worst had been lost passing fiirough IF  Short Story C Whaf wot Ihe message fhe deserted cities held? And -- did H matter? T he rockets were already running when Scout Ship # appeared suddenly off the planet Toran, and instantly they flashed far out to send the ship into what would be a screaming dive almost straight down. Behind, dwindling swiftly, a doud of exterior fittings that had been wrenched loose by the acceleration glowed when the exhaust brushed them. The ship shifted lightly to head for what the pilot thought to be a continent, but as he had no knowledge of the planet's flora it could as well have been an ocean. Inside the ship the pilot muttered, crouched over his control panel. He was a thin, grainy-complexioned redhaired man named Skinner -- and he was scared. He had had years of training in one of the galaxy's best space schools, but now he relied far more on his years as an aircraft pilot than on anything he had learned in class. When the ship hit high altitude bumps he corrected automatically, slewing the little ship aroimd so that the rockets carved great arcs across the sky. A ort, dark crew member named Bannan hurtled into the control room, his thick body easily handling the heavy acceleration but his balance at a loss with the ship's Imrdies. A quick swerve sent him careening into a bulkhead where by bracing his feet he managed to stay. He opened a thick manual he was carrying. "Skinner, listen. I tell you you'll get us all in a terrible fix. Listen to this: 'Among the most stringent of Space Service regulations are those governing landing procedure. In general, the shift from hyperspace to normal space and the approach to a planet are made only after the most thorough consideration of an possibilities. Damage to the ship or hyperspace apparatus will be punished...'" "Don't worry about the hyperspace apparatus," Skinner broke in. We lost that long ago." "Then you've stranded us here!" shouted Bannan. "If you don't pile us ten miles into the planet with your crazy landing we'll never get off it, and if we do we'll be in the brig for breaking all the rules!" "To hell with the rules," snarled Skinner. "I was once in a ship ith a leaky reactor and the pilot did just what I'm doing. We got out just in time. When this crate gives up the ghost it'll take everything with it for miles around. No .Space Force detective will have any way of finding ouf what we're doing now, or whether anyone broke any rules. Now do something useful. Look up Toran in that manual. I think it's inhabited. Is it?" "Yes," said Bannan after a pause. "Are they friendly?" "Yes. Intelligent and friendly." "Good what color are the land masses?" "Green." "Good. That's where we're going," said Skinner. The third member of the crew, a slender Japanese named Doi, struggled into the room, dragging a mass of wires, detached instruments, and other miscellaneous equipment. He compensated easily for swerves, but the acceleration seemed to tell on him. "I couldn't find anything wrong," he said. "But something's way out of whack. The random count m the lower reactor has picked way up. I'm going to get a scientilktor and see..." "No, don't," Skinner said. "When we really start bouncing you might get electrocuted. Look, Bannan, you and Doi just run around and grab up things to take with us when we land. Open the airlock most of the way, and cut loose its safety locks and chain." The ship bumped violently and the lights went out. Skinner stayed in his seat, working by touch and a faint flow from his viewscreen. The other two collected whatever equipment they could think of. They knew the little ship so well they were almost as unhampered by the dark as the pilot, though Bannan had lost his book. As the ship entered the heavier atmosphere it turned over and the length downward. With an ear-splitting screech they descended precipitously toward a land feature that struck Skinner as significant for almost any kind of creature -- a great river delta that opened from a stubby isthmus between two continents. W T he city was a strange one, halfway between sea and land, with curious convolutions of stone for buildings and water running down many of the streets. The three men used their antigravity raft to give it a long look, from several hundred feet up and an equal distance from the city's edge. They regarded it somberly; it was their only means of getting passage from Toran and, unless they found food, their only means of staying alive. Only a minute after they had left the ship, half sunken with water bubbling around it from the intense skin heat, it had blown up and dug a great crater, throwing rocks and mud for miles. They had come thirty or forty miles from the landing site, across the flat sand of the river delta on which the city was located. They had been quiet during that trip, llieir nerves calmed from the frantic scampering of their close escape, and the immense, empty vistas of sky and sand helped prepare them to realize the drama of their approach to the city. Indeed, as they floated high above the walls of the alien city Doi glanced uncertainly at bis two colleagues, and observing their set expressions essayed something profound and significant himself. He was new at this business and not so sure as the older men of the appropriate feelings for different situations. Skinner spoke, his voice sounding with sturdy practicality instead of the high note audible during the last few minutes on the ship. "You figure to ground it here?" He indicated the sand flats below them. "No," said Bannan, pondering. "We want to take no chances. I think we'd better fly over the city first, and see if we can scare up anyone or anything before we get off the raft." "The city isn't far from where the ship landed," remarked Doi. "If we hit so near it just by accident, there must be lots of cities on this coast." "I saw the city on the viewscreen and aimed for it," said Skinner. "It's the only one I saw, so it's probably the only one for at least a few hundred miles." A t these words there was a sharp hiss and the raft sank slowly. Bannan, who was driving h, fiddled and cursed at thr mntrols. Skinner asked, "What's "No jets. s:tem is sealed, too -- it could lake hours just to see what's wrong. Doi, when we land you better get out and push." Doi gave him a strange look. "Push?" "Right. The bouyancy controls will be hard to handle," said Skinner. "I know." They would be, for there was only one bouyancy control, a single knob that could change the bouyancy of the raft by thousands of pounds. Usually t control was only roughly set, and any necessary corrections were affected with the raft's jets. Bannan would have one advantage when he delicately tried to set the knob for the proper bouyancy: when no hand touched the controls the raft would set itself to sink n IF automatically at the rate of a foot per second. If he could observe the setting the control knob took when it performed this automatic funcmeter or so he could achieve a mild bouyancy. He tried several times and didn't succeed. "Catch it, you fool!" Bannan shouted to Doi when he poked at the knob and the raft leaped up for the fourth time. Doi threw himself forward, caught the raft, and swung on it to bring it down. "Run along and get us going, then swing up," ordered Bannan. Doi pushed at the raft until he was sprinting along beneath, then heaved himself up. The raft sank and bis feet dragged and bounced on the ground. Bannan gave a tiny poke to the knob to compensate and the raft soared again, so quickly that it wrenched free of Doi's grip. He fell and would have rolled except that he struck a patch of thin mud. The mud on his face made Doi's expression unreadable when he trudged up to the raft, but nevertheless Bannan grunted in an abashed fashion. "Hmmph. Missed it that time. Let's try it again, Doi." "WTiy don't you take the raft up, let it descend to him so that he can push it when it gets in range, and then he can hop on before it hits the ground and you can take the raft up," said Skinner. "Yes. yes," Bannan growled. "Of course." W ith an abrupt twitch and a quick releasing of the knob he took the raft twelve feet up. Doi waited until it came into reach and then pushed. It accelerated slowly; Doi was tired, was trying to run in wet sand, and was pushing a heavy load. "Hurry up," Skinner said. Doi muttered something unintelligible. The raft sank lower. "Get on, quick." Doi leaped and landed on the raft, now only a foot or so off the ground. He slightly unbalanced it before its automatic system could compensate for his extra weight, and the tilting caused Bannan to miss his dab at the control knob. Before he could try again the raft scrunched heavily into the sand and he went flying off the front end. Doi crashed into Skinner. By now the three men were beginning to look somewhat alike. Skinner's contact with Doi had given him large soiled patches on his uniform, much to annoyance, while Bannan was drenched and furious. Doi's expression was still unreadable. "All right," said Bannan. "We're finally going to do this the right way." "We're almost in the city," objected Skinner, pelting at the silent walls fifty feet away. "It would stBl be best to fly over the city first. I'm pretty sure it says so in the Manual. Skinner, you drive the raft. I'll push while the raft descends. However, this time when it gets too low I'll move back and let you take it up. We'll do it as many times as necessary to get the raft moving fast and get me on with plenty of time to spare. I'll push the raft so that we go down that long straight street there." tie pointed at a street that began on the edge of the city and apparently continued far into it. Skinner stared at him for a moBannan exert himself. He said, "All right, you try." Bannan pushed until he was trotting, then slowed to let Skinner jerk the raft up, trotting beneath it as it descended. When it came within reach he resumed his pushing. By this time they had entered and were travelling down the street Bannan had aimed for. Stone walls of alien buildings echoed the sound of his footsteps. Suddenly the sharp smacking of his boots changed to splashing as a ramp dipped away to a water filled street. With a hoarse shout he pulled at the raft, slowing it, but as the water became deeper he was dragged forward until he was plowing along with water sluicing over his excited face. Doi leaped to help him. Just before the raft touched the water, however, Skinner dabbed at the control knob, causing the raft to leap upwards and throwing both Doi and Bannan into the water. When they emerged, treading to keep their heads above, Bannan shouted: "You crazy damned fool! What did you do that for?" Skinner was moving quickly about the raft. He picked up two plastic packages and threw them towards the two men. Then he replied, T just remembered that the raft will sink through water. It sinks until the plungers on the bottom arc depressed." Skinner was drifting away quickly; his voice was growing fainter. "What do we do now?" "Reconnoitre." "What!!?" "ni use the velocity I have now to traverse the city. You investigate these buildings. I'll figure out some way to manage the raft and co ne back." He was a long way away now, his voice fading to inaudibility. They watched silently. Somehow the sense of drama had gone, disappeared as quietly as Skinner was now disappearing. When he approached the water again he jerked the raft up and over a small building at the end of the street. He lowered something, apparently tiying to grapple the buildings, and then sank out of sight on the other side. T he smooth building walls afforded no immediate way out of the water. Silently the two men gathered the packs and splashed back along the street until they could stand with their heads and chests out of the water. Doi noticed a feature he had seen before but not understood; along the walls of the buildings were straight shafts of metal that projected about four feet out and parallel to the ground. "What do you make of those?" he asked. Bannan stopped and looked at them closely. "Beats me. They look like roosts for some kind of huge birds, near as I can tell." "Do you think the planet is inhabited by birds?" # IF "Maybe it used to be. We haven t een anything living, remember. They may have all died or moved away." "How come there's water in the ftreets?" Bannan was getting irritated. "Maybe the town flooded, maybe that's why they moved away. How should I know?" "A town like this would flood pretty easily, being on a delta, wouldn't it? Why would birds build a town on a river delta?" "Maybe they're fishers, dammit f" Bannan's face turned red. "Here, where the street gives way to the water, it slopes down evenly and quickly," said Doi with a trace of malice in his voice. "It looks like a ramp to me, as if the water were intended to be there." "Well damn, you're full of spunk today! All right, maybe they built their town so it would have water in it. Maybe they wanted fish to come right up into it from the ocean. The birds could perch up there, and when they saw something..." He broke off. The city seemed suddenly very quiet. They glanced around quickly but saw nothing except the strange buildings and enigmatic metal shafts. Bannan spoke: "Well, anyway, it seems to me the thing to do is to climb up on those perches and see if we can get to the top of a building. If these buildings really are monster aviaries thfere will be some way to get into them from the top." He went to the side of a building, under a metal shaft that was four feet above his head. "Come on, give me a hand up." D oi joined him and leaned with his hands against the building. Bannan clumsily climbed onto his back, then put his knees on the slender Asian's shoulders. By stretching upward he could just reach the bar. "Hah," he said. "I can get it." His wet hands clamped firmly onto the metal. There was a blue flash, and his tone became more heated. "Yahhh-hoooo!" Doi, through whom the current passed on its way to the water, lunged to one side, leaving Bannan swinging and cursing freely. His foot splashed into the water and caused a fresh screech. He pulled it up. "Don't touch the water," said Doi. "There's a potential difference between it and Ae bar. Why didn't you let go?" "My hands cramped and I couldn't get them loose. They're relaxing now." He dropped into the water. "They say that's bad for the heart, electric current." Doi began unpacking a line kit from his survival pack. The main bulk of the line kit was in the two winches attached to either end of the line. The line itself was an invisibly thin monomolecular strand that would support a horrendous weight and also would cut through the hand of anyone who tried to forcibly hold onto it. The winch had a spool, a fixed handle, and an outsize crank handle that could be geared to reel quickly, slowly or could be locked. Under the affronted gaze of Bannan, who stood gingerly flexing his hands, Doi locked one winch and used it as a weight to throw the line over the perch nearest the top of the building. He retrieved the thrown winch and passed it around the original line to form a knot, which, with a jerk, quickly travelled up the gossamer thin line and clamped around the perch. Then, with one hand on the fixed handle of the first winch and cranking slowly with the other, he walked up the side of the building. Bannan took the other winch and in a minute both men were standing surveying the roof. T 'he roof was covered with instruments. There were things that looked like thermometers, wind vanes, pressure devices, cameras, radar, and other devices that were completely inexplicable. The most puzzling were several large, smoothly curved metal affairs, shaped something like miniature ampitheatres or curved divans, that hummed quietly. Doi touched one lightly with two fingers and a reminiscent tingle passed through the fingertips. "There's a potential gradient on this surface. Heaven knows what the thing does." They cast for a way to enter the building and eventually found one -- an opening and a series of metal bars that led down into a dank darkness. Bannan shied back. "No sir, they're not going to catch me with any of their electrified traps." "It's a pretty poor trap," Doi said. He swung out on the first bar, then lowered himself until he was standing on the next with bis rubberS# shod feet. He continued in this way until he was out of sight. His voice echoed up. "Come on." Bannan attempted the same procedure but missed the second bar and awkwardly grabbed the pole from which the bars jutted, so that he banged against three of them at the same time. After a couple of nasty seconds he realized that nothing would happen to him. "My, Bannan, you're clumsy. Why aren't you dead?" "There's no current in these bars," Bannan said seriously as he climbed the rest of the way down and joined Doi, who had broken out a small light. They looked around. There was an array of equipment like that on the roof, but it was more massive and was not datacoHecting equipment. One square device with many wheels and threads of fine wire could have been a recorder of the data taken above. Cables led from squat machines to the ceiling and probably through it to the instruments above. There was nothing that gave them any useful information, and they moved down. The floor below was identical except for details, but the ground floor yielded much of interest. One corner of the room was filled with desklike objects, littered with rolls of wire and other odd junk. On one of the desks was a record player and record. "Fishy business," muttered Bannan as he poked at the set. "You know, it does smell fishy, Hke a seafood stand, in here. T was trying to place it. hat s the rec -- oidr IF Bannan picked it up. "One side has Violation Baby and Booby Baby by Slack-Lipped Harry's Grim Rve, and the other has Dead Baby by the Cretins." "Look at how the record player b arranged," said Doi. "The output can be switched from that speaker to this wire recorder and also to these exposed leads. I wonder what they do with it?" "It must be sort of joke to them." "Sort of a joke to anyone." I n another corner of the room was a machine from which projected a bar exactly like those on the wall outside. Checking with a thin wire established that it carried no charge. A hole in one side suggested a vending machine. "Let's try to find some money," said Doi. "I want to see what this machine does." A short search of the desks yielded a cache of metal balls that could have been ball bearings, but were covered with complicated incisions. They tried a ball in the machine and it hummed. A thin wire draped across the bar so that it dangled to the floor quickly melted. "Wat a screwy blasted setup," said Barman. ' "No, it isn't screwy. I think I just about have it figured out," He looked mildly on as Bannan quickly became red in the face. Just before the inevitable explosion, he said, "But if I'm right we'd better get out of here. It was beginning to get dark when we entered the building. It ought to be fvfl night soon." Bannan looked at him wordlessly, then turned to climb the series of rungs. Doi said, "No. This way." He led the way through a low door that opened into a small room where the floor was under water. He seemed satisfied. "See? Water." "Praise be. Are you going to take a bath?" "I think this wall is the other side of the street wall we climbed up." He jumped into the water, felt along the wall. "Ah. Here;" He ducked under water and disappeared completely. In another couple of seconds he was back. "There's an opening. It leads put into the street. Come on." Soon the two men emerged into the street and trudged back to high ground. Darkness was falling fast. "Now there remain only two things," Doi said. "Skinner, with Ae translating machine, and the aliens." "You're pretty damn smugl" exploded Bannan, but he couldn't hide from his voice a trace of apprehension that Doi had the answer. "What are Ae aliens?" "They live in the sea, in the bottom probably, because Aey can't sec. They communicate by electricity. They probably evolved from creatures like earth's electric eels." "What about the perches? How can they climb around on those?" "They're not like ordinary fish. Remember, even on earth there are things like octopus or..." A splash sounded from the water-filled street. In the last dim light Acy could vaguely see a wave devclop as something large gathered velocity just under the surface, and suddenly a huge white shape hurtled from the water and wrapped its twenty foot tentacles around the first two or three metal perches, proceeding from there with a ponderous grace the top of the building, where it disap;'eared. It seemed to consist of a K)ng semiflexible body, bluntly curv, d at one end and at the other end split into a number of nionstrous tentacles. Doi finished his sentence hesitantly, "... or like squid." CiT'm glad you figured it out when X you did," Skinner said. "I'm not sure I would have tumbled to it for a while." They sat together in one of the largest Toran laboratories, out of the way of the Toranites, who were working on some elaborate piece of equipment. A dim light illumined the misty, cold room. Toranites worked with precision and effortless strength on great accumulations of equipment, hanging from roof or wall perches to get at machines dozens of feet in the air, though sometimes they seemed balked at the more minute mechanical details. Skinner went on. "I got so I could move the raft around all. right. I attached a long rod to the gravity knob for a more delicate control, and I found that by grappling on roofs I could pull the raft where I wanted it. But then I followed those big squids -- Toranites -- and set the translator microphone to deciphering their twitterings, jibbers, and squeaks, which I guess are just sort of sounding apparatus. Lord knows how long it would have been before I just took the microphone off its leads and pushed the leads right up against the beast's skin." Bannan seemed about to say something cynical but he restrained himself. "How did you figure it out" Skinner asked Doi. Doi explained. 'I thought they must be sea creatures because of the water in the streets. I couldn't see how they could be birds, as Bannan suggested, or land animals with rowboats. For one thing, if they came from the land and used boats in the streets, as in Venice, there would have been ways to get to the city from the outside -- roads, perhaps. But the only way is the sea. "And if they came from the sea that would also explain why there was only this one city above the ocean's surface. It's one of a kind -- most of their activities are carried out in the sea. I tried to imagine what use they would have for a land city, and I decided that one would be scientific research. Sure enough, the first building we entered was jam full of scientific apparatus. I imagine most of it is either equipment that won't work under water or specifically investigates climate and other above-sea conditions. "There was something else that struck me, and that was the lack of anything that indicated that they could see. There was no meters, calendars, papers, any evidence they had any kind of visual writing. The # IP incisions in the steel balls were hard to see, because there was no ink in the incisions. What was more, all the equipment was functioning, but there was no one around -- maybe they came at night; maybe in fact the light bothered them," he paused. #CTf they couldn't see, how could A they handle a technology such as the one we're looking at? The immediate answer would be sound and touch, and they obviously have both of those. Touch is essential, and the ability to hear is indicated by the speaker hitched up to that phonograph. "But it seemed a little thin for them to have such a technology based only on touch and some tremendously complicated languages. Then I remembered three things -- exposed leads attached to the phonograph; the absence of any other speakers throughout the building we investigated, although it had many wire recorders; and those large instruments on tc of the building and in it, shaped something like large (fivans. It struck me that those things would be ideal for holding some large body in front of selected banks of instruments, though it would expose diat body to changing potentials. Why? And also, why the exposed leads? Obviously, die creatures somehow could fed changes in electricity with high sensitivity. Maybe they were like electric eels, and could to some extent produce it themselves, and perhaps it was less effort for them to buy it, as from the vending machine. "I wasn't absolutely sure of all this, of course, but it seemed a fairly complete picture and one worth trying." "Very good," squawked the translator box. They looked around and saw that its microphone leads ran to a motionless Toranite twenty feet away. "I've been listening, and I applaud your insight. You are substantially right on all the important points. Actually, we do have eyes, but compared to yours they have low resolution and high sensitivity, being evolved to detect luminous creatures in the depths of the sea. You notice the faint glow by which we are working. You may have thought that was arranged fMT you but actually we always use light of about that intensity. "But that is a niggling point and I must congratulate you on an astute realization of the situation. I can hardly imagine a stranger set of circumstances for creatures such as yourselves. "And now, our arrangements for you. You will be pleased to learn that we have finished our temporary interstellar radio and have sent a distress signal to Agan Redan, where there is a scout base. You can expect that in about seven of your hours, or at midday tomorrow, you win be rescued." T he scouts relaxed. After a short silence Doi spoke. "There is something that has been bothering me. The translator has been giving us English in an irregular, jerky rhythm. Is your language delivered in short bursts?" 'No. It can be delivered at almost any rate we choose. I've been listening to the translator pronounce English and I've attempted to feed k Toran in such a way that it protomed to. We have a recording of iome spoken English here, in fact you stumbled onto it -- a disk with grooves, a priceless relic of the first discovery of this planet by the Galactic Federation. I have spent hours listening curiously to that thing, reflecting on its deeper mysteries. I had thought I could manipulate your translator somehow so that it would give the speech rhythm used by the humans recorded on the disk, but your translator is an obstinate ort of device. It has a mind of its own. "We have only the rest of tonight to exchange information, howtver, and you gentlemen must be tired. So allow me to put to you cveral small questions about the Federation, about which I am very curious. Unless, of course, any of you have any more questions?" "I have one," said Doi. "Is electric current expensive here?" "Yes. In fact, our prices are outrageoi s for our technology, though Aey will soon go down when we tart our reactors. Until now it has been very difficult to manufacture." "Was the vending machine I saw a vendor of raw electricity?" "Yes. It is for those who feel depleted and don't wish to spend a day in seclusicm restoring charge," the Toran answered. "Then why are the metal bars leading up the sides of buildings carriers of a strong current? It looks to me as if anyone can tap it who wants." "Anyone can. Those bars are the symptoms of a free economy, democratic and with an emphasis of free enterprise. There are those who object to them, insisting they are annoying, insulting, and cynically commercial, but most, like me, regard them as healthy symptoms of our competitive economy. This is a public building and there is such a bar just behind me. I'll attach the translator leads to it and you can see for yourselves, although I don't imagine the translator will be able to handle many of our idioms." There was silence and abruptly the translator squawked again. Bannan turned bright red; it seemed to him a crowning insult that the current that had flowed through him should have been a voice, which, in spite of the deadpan squawk of the translator, had that queasy, ingratiating, glad-handed tone that in long years on crowded earth he had come to know so well: "Friends! Have your tentacles been feeling stiff lately? Has vour brrrp-sack lost its resilience? For pure, pullulating sliminess, for unequalled brrrp, no ungeunt can beat      M IF Distributed nationaiiy by: # Avenue of Americas New York, N.Y. # IF  S#ri#d The fair world of Asconel had been ravaged by a man, a woman -- and Someone who was neither! H orrorstruck visions raced through Spartak's mind in three fuccessive and distinct stages. First, there was the appallingly vivid picture of them all condemned to serve the whim of this mentally unstable girl, slaves bound with unseen chains, compelled to take her on a colossal joyride around the wheel of stars which was the galaxy. Second, there came a flood o memories of Asconel: its seas, its mountains, its forests and open plains, every recollection painfnl with yearning. He had resigned himself long ago to a life of exile, but What Has Gone Before Asconel has been taken over by someone -- or something! -- that threatens Id destroy a hard-working people and a good way of life. The three brothers of its former ruler, Hodat, who has been slain by the usurpers, are AsconePs only hope. Spartak has given up the life of action for the contemplative existence of a monklike scholar. That idyll is destroyed when Vix descends on his peaceful existence with the tale of the rape of their home world. The two half-brothers start for Asconel in Vix's spaceships but on the way stop at Delcadore where the third brother of the murdered ruler, Tiorin, may be found. They find their brother, but at a cost. For while they are waiting, a high official of Delcadore commandeers them and their ship for a frightful errand. They are ordered to take a mutant girl, Eunora, to the edge of the galaxy -- and abandon her. They are able to overcome the hypnotic compulsion that would make them carry out these orders -- but only through rtie help of the girl. And then she too takes over their minds. They are her slaves, Ipless as children before her mutant brain. since Vix came to find him he had conceived an ache to go home that now permeated every fiber of his being. The agony of deprivation was almost physical, like hunger -- more nearly like sex. And third, as he began to bring his whirling thoughts under control, followed the shadow of a question. Could even Eunora, who had certainly released them from the Imperial conditioning, reverse the process with her supernatural talent, imposing fresh commands in place of those she had wiped out? Could she? No one said anything. He and his half-brothers simply stared at Eunora, as though her tiny face and body held an infinite fascination for them. Bit by bit, the waiting grew to be a strain on her, and the expression of mocking triumph she wore gave place to a look of uncertainty. At last she burst out, "Do as I tell you! Do as I tdl you!" But the words were tinged with hysteria. Behind her shoulder, Spartak saw Vineta move. She came forward into the middle of the control room floor, and spoke unexpectedly in a level voice. "I want to go to Asconel. Because that's where Vix wants to go." "Shut up!" Eunora rounded on her, the skin around her eyes crinkling up as though she were about to cry. Murmurs of astonishment came from Vix and Tiorin. Spartak was not less surprised than they at Vineta's intervention, but he was perhaps better equipped to see how it was possible than they were. He forced his thinking along the most promising line, remembering that Eunora was exposed to all of them at once D eliberately he fanned the coals of his resentment into flame, visualizing her as she had been when she was brought to the ship -- corpse-stiff, kept alive only by machines, suffering unspeakable cramps and soreness. Is this how you repay our help? he whispered wordlessly inside his head. And beyond that, more subtly: Is this the life you want, for years, forever perhaps -- the loneliness of power, without love, without friendship and trust? "Stop it!" she whimpered, and dashed at him to beat with her little absurd fists on his chest. He folded his arms and stared sternly down at her. Once you begin it, you can never stop. And behind the thought, carefully constructed pictures of faceless people, by hundreds and then by thousands, plotting to escape from her control and drive her down to final darkness. "Stop it!" she shrieked again. He complied, and thought instead of Asconel, a fair world, hospitable and kindly, with himself and Vix and Tiorin and Eunora too enjoying . its sunshine, its wine, its fields and cities. Helpless, the girl bent over and covered her face with her hands. The threatened onslaught of tears overcame her. Impulsively, Vineta put her arm around her shoulders. and she turned and buried her sobs in the long dark hair. "What -- what happened?" Vix whispered, moving as though waking from nightmare. "I wouldn't be surprised if Vineta could tell you," Spartak answered slowly. "You've been underestimating this girl of yours, Vix! She thinks very clearly indeed." Vineta, comforting the weeping Eunora, shook her head. "T only know what store Vix sets by going to Asconel. And I couldn't bear to think of him -- and all of you -- being turned into toys for zer." "And there you have it," Spartak grunted. "Eunora found it easy to release the conditioning the Imperial psychologists imposed on us. But to implant new commands of her own against the terrible need we all have to go home and set our people free -- that's not something one untrained child can achieve!" "But -- " Vix started to object. "But never mind how it was done," Tiorin snapped, wiping sweat from his furrowed brow. "The question is, how do we cope with her from now on? If she's apt to repeat that performance -- " "Dump her in space," Vix said shortly. The naked brutality of the words jolted all of them, and especially Eunora, who spun in terror to gaze at him. "That's disgusting, Vix!" Tiorin countered. "Nonetheless -- since you're free of the compulsion to take her to Nylock, I think we should put her down on the nearest habitable planet." rr ,, "I... Vineta let the word hang tfmidly in the air. "Go on, Vineta. You're a clear thinker than most people. I'd be interested to hear your view."  "Well..." Vineta licked her lips. "Fve heard from Vix that this mysterious woman Lydis gained power over your late brother Hodat by appearing to read his thoughts. And what I've heard, too, about the way the people of Asconel have been changed from free independent citizens to blind fanatic dupes of the Belizuek cult sounds like the effect of some sort of conditioning. I -- well, I didn't have a very happy childhood. Even though I wasn't set apart from everybody the way EuBora is, I often felt the way she did just now -- desperate to get even with the universe, wanting to be as cruel to others as they had been to me. So I can't be angry with her. "And -- " she hesitated -- "I can't see into your minds the way she can, but I do believe that you're the nicest people I've ever had to deal with. Vix, for all that you have a temper like a star going nova, you can be very kind, and Spartak here is such a gentle person, and strong inside too. I think perhaps when she's recovered from the dreadful things they did to her on Delcadore, Eunora will see that the same as I do. And when she does -- well, isn't it going to be tremendously valuable to have someone with us who can see into people's inmost thoughts?" T here was a pause. Tiorin spoke. "I see what Spartak means about you, girL" lartak drew a deep breath. "I'd ate." Eunora gave a little frightened cry. "I see what's in your mind, Spartak! No! No!" No? His sober bearded face benl close to hers, he let himself think through the idea in detail, trying to maintain the same mood in which he had taken his vows to the order he joined on Annanworld: the sense of disgust inspired by the stupid violence attending the collapse of Imperial authority, the longing for rationality, calm judgment and peace which drove him to his selfimposed exile. But it wasn't that, he realized later, which impressed her. It was the memory of the agony he suffered while waiting for the antidote to be brought so that he could release her from the painful catatone paralysis. "I don't like this," Vix muttered in the background. "I still feel we'd be better off if we simply got rid of her." "Wait," Tiorin counseled. "Look now!" With an expression of total childlike trust, she had put her tiny hand in Spartak's large one, and he was leading her without another word from the control room. W hen Spartak returned, much later, his face was stamped with incredible weariness. "She's sleeping," he said in answer to an eager question from Tiorin. "Oh, but I've dug some foulness from that mind of hers! Like seekIF ing jewels ki a manure pile of dungl" Vix demanded harshly, "What did you do?" "Hm?" Rubbing his eyes, Spartak spoke around a yawn. "Oh -- I gave her some of the same drug I used on Korisu. I told you it was employed in psychotherapy. Before she's capable of liking us, or anyone, she's got to be cleansed of the hate she's conceived for the human race. And are you surprised at that hate? The Empire, afraid of being toppled by some superiorly gifted assailant, made it policy to deport mutants. And Ac common people turned that policy into fear for Acir own security. You'd stand up to a raving crowd, defying them wiA your gun -- or a sword, or your bare fists if it came to that. But she's a child! How can she understand and forgive a mob of fools driven out of their minds with superstitious terror?" Vix hesitated for a long moment. Finally he shrugged. "I don't like Ae idea, but -- but you know a few Aings I don't, having spent so long with your nose buried in your books. So far, things have turned out well for us. I'll go along wiA you. But if she pulls another trick like the one she scared us with, I'll dump her in space!" "Well said," Tiorin approved. "Now, though, we have a choice to make, Spartak. Vix feels we should go direct to Asconel, for fear of wasting any more time. I think it would be safer to try and contact Tigrid Zen on Gwo. Things have changed terribly on Asconel; even if we disguise ourselves, we mighi be betrayed by some chance ignopance." "But will Tigrid Zen be any belter informed?" Vix challenged. "H Ae stories we hear about Bucyon mastery of Asconel are correct, he won't simply be able to come and go freely. He may not even have been able to land ships at home. And someone who's totally cut ofl can't give tn much guidance." "I'll give you one soimd reasoa for skipping Owe," Spartak sakL "We cannot wm our cause on Gwo. We can only wA on Asconel." "Ascend it is Aen," Tiorin multered, and moved to the contrds. N ow that the time of Aeir homocoming was finally upon Aem, Aey were overtaken by a sense ot estrangement which was irrationally reinforced by Ae disguises SparhA had prepared. He had some confidence in his beard and Ae passage of ten years to change him; noneAeless, he had altered his hair-color to blond, Tiorin's and Vix's boA to jet-black, worked delicately over Ae line of chin and eyebrow and nose wiA soft inert substances injected below Ae skin, till Ae rosemblance between all Aree of them and Hodat's brothers reduced to a similarity of stature and gait. That would have to suffice. Would have to. But Ae physical illusion combined wiA a feeling Aat each was retreating into a universe of private Aought where the oAers could fl not follow. In a desperate attempt to retain their newly refound kinship even Vix -- warily supervising the controls, ever aler' for Bucyon's forces watching the space around Asconcl for intruders -- was driven to speak at random for the sake of breaking the tension. "It's winter down there," he muttered. "We'll have to get some warmer clothing," Spartak agreed, "especially for Eunora, who has nothing." "T wasn't thinking of that." Vix shrugged. "If there's snow on the ground, it'll be much harder to land without leaving tracks." Tiorin made to speak, hesitated, finally gave a bitter laugh. "I was just about to ask where we should buy our clothing and whether it would be safe to show our Imperial currency. But it suddenly struck me that we'll be lucky to find anyone with clothing to sell even in a town." "Aren't you exaggerating?" Vix said. "I doubt if he is," Spartak put in. "The entire planet will be shockingly changed, Vix. Production, distribution, communications -- all reduced to the bare minimum needed to support Belizuek's domination. Rags will have become precious, and to throw away a crust of bread will be unthinkable. Typically, itil be safe enough to show Imperial currency, and what's more it'll buy incredible quantities of anything that's for sale. But our own money will have become effectively worthless." "Then how can people five?" Vix demanded savagely. V ineta spoke up from the corner of the control room in which she huddled with Eunora; being close to her own childhood, she had established a sort of shy intimacy with the mutant girl. "Vix, you've seen how it is on worlds we've travelled to with your order. They live like beasts, ready to fight for a morsel of food, neglecting everything but the sheer necessity of staying alive." "I guess so," Vix sighed. "But I can't transfer what I've seen on worlds like Batyra Dap to my own beloved Asconel." His fingers curled like claws, as if he had Bucyon's throat between them. Spartak said hastily, "We're agreed at least on what we do at first, aren't we? We land as Vix recommends on the southerly tip of the island on which stands the town of Penwyr. There's a concealed site for the shjp; the people stood loyal to our father while Vix was putting down the rebels; there's a temple at Penwyr, the only one on the island; and it's -- well, if not easy, at any rate possible to get to Penwyr on foot, so that we run the least risk of being reported and attracting the attention of the priesthood. Once arrived, we go directly to the temple and try to find out what Belizuek is behind these screens which always hide him. If we must, we'll kidnap a priest and interrogate him back at the ship. Meantime, Eunora will tell us which of the people we meet still harbor the seeds of resistance to Belizuek, and we'll sound out those we feel we can truit ir lo guide our Kv.T-reim pinning. "Can we just wedk into the temple?' Tiorin asked. "I know everyone has to go there daily -- " "It's not quite like that," Spartak corrected. "Every morninr there's a ceremony to honor Belizuek, but ot all the citizens are required to #c daily homage. In towns they are pected to go to the temple one day out of three; in the country, one day in six. But it seems not to be looked on as a duty; it's one of the great events in lives which have become uniformly drab and depressing. Accordingly, the temples re open all day, from dawn to dusk, so that people with particularly fervent adoration for Belizuek can go and prostrate themselves." "What do they do at these sacrifices?" Vineta put in. Vix said, "Every twenty or thirty days there's a special ceremony at which the volunteers are decked with flowers and walk behind the temple screen to the sound of joyful music." His face darkened. "What becomes of them, nobody knows except the priests. But they are never seen alive again." "Are they seen dead, then?" Tiorin growled. "Served as the main dish at a banquet, maybe?" "What time of day will it be when we set down?" Snartak asked. "Around sunrise. If we make haste, we can reach Penwyr just in time for the morning ceremony at the temple." Vix scanned his control panel closely, and gave a nod. I think we can go to land without being challenged. Here's hoping!" T he lock door slid aside. Beyond lay a bleak, forbidding landscape: gray rocks, with the whiteness of drihed snow, skewered with the trunks of leafless trees of which the crowns were just catching the first rays of dawn, ere was no sound except the distant noise of the sea, gnashing its teeth. The air was bitterly cold. But it wasn't the sudden chill which made Spartak shiver and brought the tears stinging to his eyes. It was the sum of all his childhood memories. Asconel! Mother of us all that you should be brutally raped and betrayed! His emotion choked him, and by the long silence he knew his brothers were equally overcome. The first voice to disturb the cold morning was Eunora's. Scarcely louder than a whisper, it said : "Forgive me, all of you. If I could have seen the love you have for your home, I'd not have frightened you by threatening to make you -- make you -- " She could not finish, but they all knew what she meant, and they gave her frosty smiles in acceptance of her apology. "We must move," Tiorin said practically. "Vix, you'll need to inactivate the ship, fit alarms and boobytraps -- ?" "It's as easy as turning a switch," Vix cut in. "The owners who had my ship before were all suspicious people. When we close her up no one but ourselves will be able to get within arm's length of the hull. In any case, no one comes to this part of rhe island. No hunting, no fishing worth the name -- no reason for visitors." He patted his chest, making sure he had his concealed sidearm, and led the way down the ladder to the ground. They picked a route to leave the fewest possible tracks, going first by rocky slopes from which the snow had blown away, then by a road which had been used since the last fall, where there were already plenty of footmarks. It all seemed very straight forward, and Spartak might have relaxed, but for the freezing cold. They had walked the better part of an hour when there was a sharp exclamation from Vix, leading the way. The others hurried to see what he had found. He had halted opposite a form half-buried by snow in the meager shelter of a bush. "He's dead," he said slowly, and the others, shocked, saw that this was indeed a man -- very old for his beard was not white only with frost. He must have sat down to rest here while trudging the road, and never got up again. Spartak exhaled sharply, his breath wreathing in the icy air. "Well, he has no further use for what little he possessed," he grunted, and began without more ado to strip the clothing from the corpse. Tiorin made to object, and he gave him a glare. "If you're going to be squeamish, perhaps you'd rather strip yourself and lend the clothes to Eunora?" When he'd finished, she was so grotesque in the miscellaneous rag he had supplied that Vix looked doubtful. "Can we really go into Penwyr with her dressed like that? "You're fond of betting," Spartak answered. "I'll bet that most of the people we meet will be worse clad yet." With a last surge of energy he put the fragile corpse out of sight in a bank of snow beyond the bush where it had rested, and they tramped on. H is estimate of the condition of people in Penwyr was correct. They began to encounter the citizens on the road just before entering the town. This was a day for folk from outlying farms to attend the temple ceremony. They were gathering on foot and in wheezing old groundcars fueled with wood-gas generator. None of them offered to speak to Spartak and his companions, which suited them well. Two things appalled Spartak especially: first, the numbers on foot -- for Asconel had been among the few worlds retaining nuclearpowered transport after the withdrawal of Imperial support. And second, the looks of near-ecstasy on all the faces. Even the children, some of whom one would have expected to be sullen and fractious, were uniformly cheerful. In the town, placards depicting Bucyon and Lydis were ever#rwhere, mostly on the fronts of stores long closed for lack of goods to sell. Several people in the now large crowd heading for the temple paused to kiss the pictures. IP Wary, eyes taking in every detail around, they let themselves be carried along until they were in sight of the temple itself. Originally it must have been the island's agricultural produce mart, a low-roofed building several hundred feet square. Now it was decked with Bucyon's picture and many crude slogans. The crowd paused as it entered the street on which the temple stood and joined with other streams of people from elsewhere in the town, giving Spartak time to read some of the gaudv exhortations: Spartak tried to keep the grim look of hatred from his face as he shuffled his feet to warm them on the frozen "round. When he felt a nudge, he thought at first it was Eunora huddling close to him for shelter against the cold wind, but it was Tiorin who had pressed up in order to whisper. "Spartak, you've noticed the -- the joy with 'which all these people are going to the temple?" Spartak nodded. "It terrifies me," Tiorin breathed. "Spartak, what makes us think that we can resist Belizuek ourselves? How do we know that we're not walking into his jaws by coming to his temple? How do we know when we come out we won't be his willing slaves for the rest of our lives?" xvn 'The echo of Tiorin's depressing suggestion made Spartak's head ring like a gong as they were carried willy-nilly forward in the crowd. It was far too late now to change their minds about entering the temple. The people pressed on every side, eager to get out of the cold and into the steamy warnith of the building. He wish achingly that Eunora could speak directly to his mind, telling him what she was picking up from those around. But she could not, and after Tiorin's brief whisper there were too many other people too close for any more private conversation. Wondering what was going on inside the mutant girl's head, Spartak used the advantage his height gave to peer around and seek clues to the grip Belismek exerted on his disciples. None offered themselves. He saw, heard and smelt a horde of dirty, hungry wretches, who seemed to find their plight perfectly natural and indeed enjoyable. Drug addiction. The concept thrust itself out of a corner of memory. It was apposite. He had only rarely seen victims of an uncontrollable addiction, but they bore the same stamp of single-minded urgency as the people surrounding him. He began to make guesses, putting himself into the place of the people here. People who had failed to see the necessity for starting over from their own resources when the Empire withdrew its economic and military support To such a person, after thousands of years of Imperial domination, the idea of Asconel making its own way would be literally inconceivable And since the Empire was human, what more logical conclusion than that man was unworthy? He shook his head. It was only half an explanation. They were coming to the door now. Spartak felt his nape tingle as he sought for any intrusion on his mind -- any process comparable to conditioning which might turn him too into a loyal disciple of the greedy deity. But it was useless; he could not tell. Clutching Eunora's tiny hand, trying to keep within arm's reach of his brothers, he was forced into the temple. There was little remarkable about it. There were no seats; the people were supposed to pack in shoulder to shoulder and stand during the ceremony. The walls were decorated with prized personal possessions -- paintings, sculptures, tapestries and objects in precious metal -- described on small attached plaques as voluntary donations by adorers of Belizuek. The screen at the far end, behind which Belizuek was allegedly concealed, was not, as he had envisaged, some curtain of force akin to the defensive field of a starship. It was just a screen of woven metal links on a frame adorned with gems. More than likely, it would carry He got his first sight of the priests now: wearing robes not unlike those affected by his own order on Ants nanworld, but in various colors, black, white, green and gold. They stood watching the congregation assemble. Was there any clue to their origin in their physique? He studied them, and concluded that they might as easily have been born on Asconel as any other world of the galaxy. The traffic of the Empire mixed all the existing human stocks. T he eyes of one priest seemed to dwell on him. He repressed a start of alarm. Glancing around, he decided that there was nothing to mark them out as unusual -- many of the men were taller than himself, many of the children were smaller and younger than Eunora. If the priest was curious, it could only be because He did not immediately recognize them. It would be wise to slip away after the ceremony, delaying their return to the empty temple until, perhaps, the curious priest would not be around. The last of the crowd from the street jammed in through the doors; the doors closed; there was an air of expectancy. All at once, a note of music sounded apparently from nowhere, and the assembly broke into a fervent chant of praise for Belizuek. Moving his mouth in imitation of the rest, he saw that all eyes were riveted on the screen behind which was Belizuek. A reason for the unison singing came to him: to weld the crowd together, making it more susceptible to the priests' appeals. But so far IF he couldn't detect any more advanced methods working on the people's minds -- no hypnotically rhythmic lighting effects, no airborne drugs. Of course, they might be too subtle for even an aware victim to notice. The chanting ended. A priest came out before the screen and turned his back on the congregation. There was a pause. He bowed, and everyone bowed with him -- Spartak and his companions fractionally late. Again? No. One bow sufficed. The priest turned, the people hanging on every movement, and began to address them in ringing tones. His theme was what Spartak had expected. Belizuek was a superior being. Men could have no higher purpose than his service. This desire should supersede all personal ainbitions. Spartak let his attention wander. So far, he'd seen and heard nothing to account for the blind obedience of once-rational persons. He was jolted back to awareness with boundless amazement when a yell went up from the body of the hall. Proof!" someone shouted. And another voice, a woman's: "Proof!" The priest, unperturbed, continued on his former subject. The voices resumed, now swelling, until the discourse could hardly be made out, and Spartak wondered if he ought to join in himself for fear of exciting notice if he remained silent. He was on the point of doing so when the priest raised a hand. The shouting stopped as if a switch had been turned. "Proof you want," the priest intoned. "Proof you shall have!" He turned to face the screen again, bowing mm deeply than before. "Belizuek! We who are dess than dust beseech a revelation of your majesty!" And Spartak learned the answers to all his questions. A t first, it was merely as tihough the temple had grown larger, the walls receding into a misty distance and beginning to glow. With a shock, a sense of perspective overtook him. Those walls were the very bounds of the universe, and the faint glow was the light of stars -- countless in number, inconceivably far away. Then there was a pause which had the still quality of eternity. Nothing moved, nothing changed. Seeping in, then, like water oozing through porous rock, came a sense of presence. Personality. Consciousness. And power! Somewhere in this monstrous emptiness, perhaps as far off as the dim stars, perhaps further, a being had come into existence to the reach of whose mind the gap between galaxies was no more than a single stride. As though drawn by a magnet, Spartak's dissociated awareness began the eon-long plunge through nowhere to find it and pay his homage. Out of the misty blur of stars a form took shape: a lens. The lens of this familiar galaxy. Chance glimpses occurred of wellknown features: the Big Dark, which some freak of stellar drift had notched like a sawcut into the galactic rim, a tiundred lit-years iide; Ac pattern of globular diKters nicknafTied the Eyes of Argus for the tbe plenum had dwindled to their customary status of bright blobs on the black curtain of infinity. But the presence knew them. The preseirce was aware of everything, from the least bacterium to the pattern of those vanishing galaxies; had sounded and plumbed the furthest void, had weighed and measured the nucleons of the atom. It Wd" so What petty human could contradict such a declaration? For it knew all human history, and felt such contempt as made any man wriggle with embarrassment for these squabbling, greedy halfhildligent creatures which had stolen the techniques and artifacts of their greater predecessors and claimed the conquest of the galaxy. To what end? To the downfall of their vaunted Empire, and the return of the pedes on tens of thousands of worlds to a state no better than the Mid-grubbing life of beasts! E ven when it was over, the vision still filled his head and dazzled his eyes. He was passive among the crowd that, forced its way from the temple, letting himself be pushed hack on the street His questions had been answered, end in a way he had not expected. The shock had dazed him. Someone tried to claim his attenhon. He shook his head and went on teinking about what he had learned. The person -- Tiorin, possibly -- gave up in annoyance and turned to someone else: Eunora. He wasn't interested in what was being said. All that concerned him was in his memory. It was much later that he realized he was being escorted along a street floored with dirty snow, his companions beside him. He was shivering, having failed to fasten his clothing about him when he left the hot overcrowded temple. Ahead, someone was walking fast with occasional backward glances that suggested anxiety. "Where are we going?" he forced out. "You're with us again?" Tiorin came eagerly to his side. "I was afraid you'd been taken like these unfortunate wretches." "Hm? Qh! Oh, yes. I guess I was." The reference drove him back inside himself, his eyes uhfocusing and hifi feet stumbling occasionally on the rock-hard snow. "The man ahead," Tiorin explained, thinking Spartak was still listening. "Vix recognized him from the campaign he fought here. Says he was a loyal and brave soldier. And Eunora got close enough to tell that he's still trying to resist Bucyon, only goes to the temple because he'd risk exposure if he didn't. We plan to follow until we get him alone and can approach him openly." But Spartak was lost again in the depths between the galaxies, playing over in his mind the vision he had had of supernal power, monstrous intelligence -- and indescribable conceit. xvin J ike most towns in Asconel's northern hemisphere, Penwyr relied largely on water-borne transport; it was unusual, however, in being built astride a river instead of on the coast. They continued to follow the man whom Vix recognized until he reached the embankment paralleling the river, by which time they were sure he would take the bridge to the other side of the town, a quarter of low-built, rather mean houses. He was becoming frightened by then, however, and had quickened his pace so much that it looked as if he might break into a run at any moment. People were about the river's edge, some Inspecting boats moored to rings in the stone wall, some working on repairs, some merely leaning over and watching. It was a choice between losing their quarry if he ran, and attracting a good deal of undesirable attention by running themselves. "Shall I speak to him?" Vineta proposed. "He's not likely to be afraid of a girl." Tiorin hesitated. "That might be the answer. Spartak, what do you think?" "No use trying to talk to Spartak," Vix grunted. "He's off moaning again." Tiorin looked dismayed. "Yes, Vineta, see if you can catch him up and get him talking. Eunora was quite sure he was not a Bucyon man, isn't that right?" The mutant girl's eyes were on Spartak. She started. "What -- # Oh yes. Yes, he's not one of these miserable dupes, like all the others." "Go ahead," Tiorin ordered, and Vineta hurried off, leaving them to stroll like any of the other idlers along the quay. "It's horrible," Vix muttered. "Everything's stopped! Even during the worst of the revolution here, we kept the main streets running, and the bridge yonder." He threw up an angry arm. "It's all going back to the mud now! What's become of the engineers we had, the builders, the craftsmen?" "Right now Fm more worried about Spartak," Tiorin muttered. "Eunora, can you tell us what's happened to him? I agree, the -- the mental show, or whatever it was, that we had at the temple was pretty impressive, but I was on guard against tampering with my mind, and it's mainly left me with the feeling I'd like to know how it's done." "Not so impressive," Vix put in. "To people who haven't flown space much, perhaps. Especially to people who thought the Empire was all pure magnificence and got some of their illusions dented. But we've seen what it's like nowadays, and made up our minds that's not the best mankind can do." "If they spread the cult of Belizuek any further, it's apt to be the only thing we ever did," Tiorin said sourly. "Look, Vineta's beckoning. Spartak hurry up, will you, instead of dawdling along like a dreamer?" Tiorin kept one eye on Eunora as they approached Vineta and the man Vix recognized, but she gave no indication of altering her judgment. ft was with some confidence tiiat he addressed the allegedly loyal citizen. "Your name is Tharl, I underftand. You won't know us, but I assure you you'll be very interested in what you hear from us." Tharl, a nervous man of early middle age, clad in old but carefully patched clothes and with a pinched expression on his face, looked from one to other of the people who had been following him. He said at length, "I took you for a party of Bucyon's men set on my heels by the priestsBut I should have known better, seeing the child with vou. Well, what do you want with me?" "We've returned to Asconel from travelling ten years long," Tiorin aaid. "And -- we're horrified." Tharl let a quick smile come and fo on his lips. "Say no more! I can provide you little hospitality -- my wife and my son both offered themadves to Belizuek, and my two daughters are married and living away. But I have a home still, and aome refreshment. Come and join mo there!" "Luck's with us," Vix muttered, mid they fell in behind Tharl to cross the bridge over the river. As ibey had foreseen, the bridge's heated and moving surface was immobile beneath a covering of soiled anow, so they had to walk all the way. T harl's house was less neglected than those which flanked it; Aose had snow on their roofs, whereas his was warm enough to melt it away, and the doors and windows still drew power instead of being converted to manual operation. But all he could offer by way of "refreshment" was stale beer, bread and cheese. "Ten years!" he murmured as he set out the food and drink. "Why, then I'd have offered you meat and fruit even in dead winter. Do you know that now they kill their herds in the fall, salting the meat in seabrine and keeping only enough stock to breed again in spring? The priests taught them that! I was raised on a farm, and to me it makes no sense." "You -- ah -- ah you said your wife and son both offered themselves to Belizuek," Tiorin ventured. "Since then you live on your own." "That's what saved me from becoming like all these fools you saw at the temple." Tharl's brows drew together over his nose and he stared into the distance. "I learned to hate just in time. Those who didn't have been duped and betrayed. And ultimately they won't be human any more." He peered curiously at Tiorin; apparently his eyesight was failing. "Tell me, though, how did you know it was safe to address me? If I make myself so obvious the priests will catch me -- it's a crime even to think, let alone speak, against Bucyon's rule." Alarm colored his words. Tiorin hesitated, making a warning gesture to Vix who might have blurted out their true identity. "Ah -- we took a chance. My friend here remembers meeting you during the IF campaign against the rebels hereabout in the time of the old Warden, Hodat's father. You were loyal then. We fell a man like yourself couldn't have changed so much." Thar pursed his lips. He commented, "You can't have been home long. Anyone can be changed and made into a follower of Bucyon. Why, men I fought beside in the old days, Warden's men as they were, have offered themselves to Belizuek since!" "Does nothing withstand Bucyon, then?" Vix dema'ded. I t was Tharl's turn for hesitation. coming to a favorable decision, he leaned forward and spoke in a confidential tone. "A movement -- well... Put it like this. Over two or three years, I've sounded out those who have a reason to hate Belizuek as I do. Perhaps ten or twelve have proved loyal to the old ways. Of them half have given themselves away, by attacking a priest or profaning ihe temple -- and the rest of us serve to encourage each other. As for rising up against Bucyon, though -- it can't be done." pointed at Spartak. "Why, even your friend here has been so deeply affected by what happens in the temple that his mind's adrift in space! First it was a wonder, and the curious talked about it and attracted the reluctant; then suddenly it became the only thing that mattered in the lives of the citizens. I escaped, as I said, because I already had a reason for hate. My wife and boy were the first of all to offer themselves in Penwyr. But that apart. I'd have become as bemused as he is." Worried, Tiorin nudged Spartak as he sat with pale face and staring eyes on the chair next to him. "Tharl is wrong," Eunora said timidly. "What's affected him sn't the power of Belizuek, but something else." "What?" Vix snorted, ready to fall back into his long-time assessment of Spartak as a dreamer and a ninny. "Let him tell you himself," Eunora said, and tugged at Spartak's sleeve. "Yes?" the bearded man said, coming to the present like a sleeper rousing. "I -- I'm sorry. I've been thinking over what I learned down there at the temple." "That's what we all want to discuss," Tiorin said. "We know what's being done to the people now. If we can discover how it's being done we can try to counteract it." "You've missed the point," Spartak said. "Don't you know what Belizuek is? There was a blank silence. Eunora smiled to herself as though enjoying the secret knowledge she could pick from Spartak's unspoken thoughts. "Well, go on!" Vix burst out. Spartak shook his head. He seemed bewildered. "Then -- well, possibly I'm mistaken." He shivered, as if he were still out in the street instead of in the comparative warmth of Tharl's home. "I must go back and make sure," he added, rising without waiting for IF ottions and starting for the door. Just a second I" Tharl jumped up and strode to stand in front of him. Back to the temple? What for?" "I shall have to get a direct look at Belizuek," Spartak explained with the sweet reasonableness of one addressing a child. "A direct look -- " Tharl was thunderstruck. "How do you propose to manage that? Nobody has ever gone behind the screen they keep around him, except for sacrificial victims and the priests who escort the poor fools. When the temple was new, there were several who tried. They were killed by a deadly charge on the metal mesh." "When the temple was new," Spartak repeated, apparently stnidc by a new idea. "Tell me, how was it -- well -- consecrated?" T harl cxirled his lip. "That I know only too well. Some priests came from Gard in a skyboat -- Card, the old royal island, is the site of the chief temple now. They brought some great chest or case affair which was unloaded with much ceremony. It was transported to the market -- what's now the temple -- and they held the first big sacrifice, with two victims. My wife and my son." Tiorin, seeing the man was almost overcome, moved to his side to comfort him. He flashed a scowl at Spartak, who remained quite unaffected. Lost in his own thoughts, the other muttered, "It might be the oxygen... If only I knew where we found the ships we appropriated! But there's that blank wall of ignorance supposed to be because it was bad for our self-respect to admit the real source of our skills -- " "You're maundering," Vix cut in. "If you have a point to make, make it!" "Shut up!" Spartak ordered. This was so different from the usual meekness of the younger man's manner that Vix was taken aback; while he was recovering, Spartak rounded on Eunora. "Do you think I'm right?" he demanded. The girl blushed. She said, "I can tell you what I felt, if that's any help. Welir le licked her lips. "I thought there was somebody behind the screen who went -- uh -- who went an awfully long way. Like very old, but also very big. Sort of connected to other pbices. Do you see what I mean?" Tharl's puzzled eyes roamed around the strangers, but he said nothing. "It fits, doesn't H#" Spartak urged. "I don't know," Eunora answered helplessly. "You've studied so many things I never heard about. It would take ages to track down all the possibilities you're considering." "Then we must go back to the temple," Spartak concluded. "As soon as possible. Tharl, you must have been there at other times than the -- the duty services. Presumably you've wanted to appear to be a loyal Bucyon man, to divert suspicion." Tharl nodded dumbly. "Then tell me what the routine of the temple is, and how we can get close to Belizuek without the priests driving us away." I ly. "But wc must," Spartak countered, making a movement as if to brush aside all objections. Eunora, however, caught his eye. "He's probably right," she said. "Let him explain." More puzzled than ever at the attention they paid to this slip of a girl, Tharl did so. Listening, Spartak came back by degrees to the realities of the problem. Ceaseless supervision, eavesdropping by priests, traps for the unwary -- it sounded as though the temple had been prepared to meet just such an intrusion as he had planned. The solution, however, came from Vix. He gave a shrug. "How about remote detection devices? Won't they do to settle your doubts? I have instruments aboard the ship which could be demounted temporarily You could probe the back wall of the temple and get some hint of what lies beyond." "Of course," Spartak muttered. "It must be the depressing effect of coming back to this ruined world, or I'd have thought of that myself. How long will it take us to get the equipment?" Vix frowned. "We'd best move under cover of dark," he suggested. "It'll be hard to conceal the gear by day." "That'll be still more difficult," Tharl put in. "The are strict curfew laws now. Even street-lighting has been abandoned. Every drop of power and fuel is devoted to Belizuek's cult." "We'll have advance warning of any patrols we run into," Tiorin said, not offering to give details. "I wish you'd explain more fully, though," he added, turning to Spartak. But the bearded man was engrossed in some calculations conducted on a memo board from his behpouch. W ith infinite care and in complete silence they stole back towards the dead-seeming town in the pitch blackness and icy cold of the winter's night. In the sky the stars burned like the points of whitehot needles. It had proved necessary to bring from the ship not only the instruments which Vix had mentioned, bat means of powering them too -- accumulators and a portable generator. When Tharl said all power went for Belizuek's cult, he meant it. There would not be a power source for them to draw on for half a mile in any direction from the temple. Consequently they were all heavily laden, even Eunora, slipping and stumbling along gallantly at Spartak's side. They reached the edge of the town and went between dark waHi which afforded little shelter from the wind. All the windows were Pottered, many with crude hand-carpentered wooden panels instead of the original plastic power-operated ones. Through craclu gleamed m W occasional handlamp or even a primitive candle. Once Eunora gave the faint whisfle they had chosen as an riarm signal. They dodged into an alley between two houses as a woman emerged to empty some foul-smelling garbage into a street drain. There was no limit to the degree people could regress under Belizueks domination, Spartak told himself wearily. Next they'd be back to open-pk latrines and epidemics. He ached to find out whether his guess about the nature of this 'deity was accurate. They had settled on a street behind the temple as the best site of operations; it was usually unfrequented at night, for this had formerly been Penwyr's busy commercial quarter. All the nearby stores were empty and neglected except oot which had been turned into a comfortable residence for the temple staff. The curfew patrols, Thail assured them, were negligent in this area, for few people would risk going out under the priests very noses. They reached it without trouble, and walked along the far side opposite the temple wall, on which the dogans glared huninous for the benefit of -- of whom? Any priest who might glance out, Spartak decided with a curl of his lip. As nearly as he could tell, he had come to a point opposite the end of the screen inside the temple. He beckoned to his companions to assemble the eqmpmeot. Metal stands dinked on the hardfrozen snow as they set down Ibeir burdens. He fumbled with numb fingers to make connections b et wee n #ie power supply and the detootom fiiemselves. Horin headed toward one end of the street, Vix md Vmeta towards the other, to keep wary watch. Eunora could do that equally well from where Spartak stood. Besides, her tiny hands were deft at the awkward work of organizing the equipment, and she did not have to be given wpcktn orders. It was the emiest task he had ever undertaken. EBs chief and burning hope was that Belizuek's powers did not extend to the percqdon of die various probe frequencies he planned to employ. H e coupled in the last deriee and silently handed die kmg fleoi attached to it to Eunora, who dariied across the street and clamped hs terminal to the wall of die temple. That automatically reported the structure-phase of the wall to the other instruments. So guided, they could look through it almost as easily as throu gass. Heart pounding, Spartak adjmted the controls and bent to peer at the tiny selfSuminated d and screens befem him. The range was excessive. He was getting a trace wWbh could only be dm nearer side of die ooncealinf screen -- irregidar metal, probably in mesh or fink fewm. He turned a knob widi stfff fingers, and began lo get suggestkms of something less ecMnmonplace. A mass of oompkoL organics -- not quite p ro l o pl a snric, but sfanflar. That fitted. He set another knob for the characteristic vibration modes of oxygen, and read off the data from a quivering needle against an arbitrary scale. Low oxygen pressure. Very low. But a good deal of carbon dioxide, and nitrogen and a blend of inert gases. Right! He began to look for the walls which must enclose this humanly unbreathable atmosphere, and almost at once found the traces which defined it. Beside him, Eunora was fascinated by the vast amount of information the instruments afforded through a featureless wall; every new conclusion he drew brought a gasp of excitement from her. "It fits, doesn't it?" he whispered, daring to make the sound which after all was no louder than the chinking and scraping that had accompanied the setting up of their fear. She gave an enthusiastic nod. Yes, Jpartak thought. Enclosed in m special atmosphere. Organic, but mot giving the same traces as a creature from one of our planets --  Thants bull, say, which would have competrable mass and dimensions...  wonder if I can get any of the iniemal structwe! Eimoras fecit threitened to chatter from the cold; she clamped them firmly shut. Two traces came up on the panel -- similar, but not identical. An internal reflection, offering a clue to tec details he was after? He checked again, and started. No: it was the tame trace from two different points in space. In other words, the thing beyond the wall had moved. I am right! Jubilantly he recognized the final confirmation of his suspicions. Eunora could not repress a chuckle as he hastily continued his examination. And that was why she failed to give him warning. T he first he knew of their discovery was when lights bloomed like suns all down the front of the building, and a door opened to dasgorge about a dozen frantic men. Spartak jerked upright, heart seeming to stop its beating. The horrified Eunora let out a stifled cry of dismay. "There they are!" a voice yelled, and feet hammered the icy ground. The equipment would have to be abandoned -- there was nothing ebe for it. Spartak snatched Eunora into his arms and fled towards the end of the street at which Vix and Vhieta had been standing guard. There was no sign of Tiorin. Handlamps had been brought out by the emerging priests, and their dazzling glare concealed the far end of the street. Nonetheless, he also must have been spotted. Two of the new arrivals were dashing in that direction while the rest came on. "Spartak!" Vix hissed. He had drawn his concealed sidearm, and was hiding in an embrasure that had once been the entry to a store. "Go around the corner and turn left. rU give them something to think about and then we'll make off to the right. Split them up!" IF "Where's Vineta?" Spartak gasped. "Right here!' the girl replied from the shadow behind Vix. "I'm staying with Vix, so don't argue!" Spartak hadn't thought of arguing. He ignored the remark. "Vix, try and destroy the equipment! Maybe they won't learn just how much I now know!" "You got what you wanted?" Vix lights, sighting along the barrel of his gun. "Practically everything!" At that instant a bolt seared along the street. Why it had been so long delayed, Spartak could only guess -- presumably the priests hadn't expected to need weapons when they were alerted. Who had done the alerting was one of the many matters to be left over for later. He ducked reflexively as splinters of stone flew from the spot where the bolt struck. "See you later at Tharl'sl" he whispered, and dived around the comer with Eunora. Behind him, Vix coldly took aim at the abandoned equipment, and fired his first bolt in reply to the priests'. This district was laid out in conventional grid pattern, so that when Spartak came to the next intersection he could glance back and see clearly the end of the street near the temple. The light there was almost blinding by contrast with the general darkness, but he made out two figures ducking away in the opposite direction from that which he had taken. Eunora had hidden her face against his chest, satisfied to perceive everything through his eyes. Vix had obviously kept his promise to give the pursuers something to think about. It was long moments before anyone followed him and Vineta around the comer. The first person to do so was an armed man who fired one random shot; Vix let off another in reply, and provoked a scream, though whether it was of fear or pain Spartak could not tell. Then he ran on again, overtaking Vineta easily, and came to the intersection corresponding to the one at which Spartak himself had paused. It was foolish, he told himself, not to make himself as scarce as time allowed, but somediing held him magnet-fashion; later, he decided it was a true premonition. Vineta stumbled on the icy street One of the pursuers loosed a bolt at her; it struck within arm's length of her, and she went sprawling. Spartak gasped, and felt Eunora tense against him till she felt like a wooden doll. From his inadequate cover Vix darted forward, gun in one hand, the other outstretched to seize Vineta and drag her to safety. He fired twice, so that the pursuers hdd back, and by main force got tlie girl on her feet, her arm around hia shoulder so she could use him as a crutch. It was a brave thing to do, a good thing to do, but so foolhardy Spartak winced. For with the weight of the injured girl delaying him, they caught him up at the end of the street and he went down under a mob of yelling priests. lor Sick at heart, but driven by cold logic to the decision that he could do nothing more practical than ensure that he at least got away, whether or not Tiorin did so, he ducked around the corner and made his way unchallenged into dark and empty streets. It was so unfair that he should get away! Why not Vix, the brave fool? "What shall I do?" he whispered to the stars. "On my own, what shall I do?" And neither the stars nor the sobbing Eunora offered an answer. XX F or the last half mile of their trip back to Tharl's home Eunora stumbled along beside him. She no longer had difficulty keeping up with the man's longer strides; he had brought himself to the verge of exhaustion. "Is Tiorin here ahead of us?" he demanded as they came in sight of their goal. She shook her head. "No one is there but Tharl, and he's in a terrible state of anxiety. He's wondering all the time whether he was right to reveal himself to you." "But he's dependable?" Spartak insisted. "I'm not so sure as I was," Eunora muttered. "Fear has been working on him ever since we left." Spartak glanced at her, and for die first time in their headlong flight noticed that she was clutching somediing to her with both hands. He didn't have to ask what it was; he recognized it His medical case. which he had brought away from the ship and assumed to have been left on the street with the rest of the abandoned equipment. "I was holding the handle while you were working," she explained shyly. "When you picked me up I clung to it." "Well, it's something. Go and tap on Tharl's window. Get him to let us in." It was painfully clear from Tharl's face that fear had indeed been giving him second thoughts since their departure. He hastened to shut the door and demanded why they were alone. Spartak told him with crude brevity. Tharl literally wrung his calloused hands. "Then you must make off at once! They'll search the whole town, house by house. If they find you here it'll be all up with me -- and you as well. You say you have a ship? You must go back there at once. Leave Asconel for somewhere safe." "I'm not leaving," Spartak grunted, dropping into a chair. "Not until Tiorin gets here." "But if he's been taken too -- " "If he's been taken too, there's no chance of my reaching our ship. They'll pry the location of it out of my brothers' minds." "Your -- your brothers?" echoed Tharl uncertainly. What point in keeping the secret any longer, if Bucyon's men had both Vix and Vineta, and possibly Tiorin as well? He said wearily, "I'm Spartak, Hodat's half-brother. The others were Vix and Tiorin." IF T harl's eyes grew round with wonder. "Forgive me!" he babbled. "T didn't know, I didn't guess!" "You weren't supposed to," Spartak told him curtly. He leaned back, dosing his eyes. "Eunora, you can warn us of approaching search parties, can't you?" "I was supposed to warn you of danger down at the temple," the girl again. "I failed. I'm -- I'm terribly orry, but I was so fascinated -- " "You're forgiven," Spartak interrupted. "Just don't do it again." "Excuse my asking," Tharl ventured. "but how can she -- ?" "Warn us? She's a mutant." "A mutant!" Millennia of Imperial prejudice sprang up in Tharl's nind, and he looked terrified. "Stop it," Spartak ordered angrily. "She's of human stock, and that's more than you can say of Belizuek." Curiosity and alarm struggled in Tharl's mind; the former won, "Did you find out what he is?" he demanded. "I think so. He's a living creature, presumably capable of being killed. He requires to be housed in an airlight compartment in which the oxygen is far below our normal air. He's Very large -- and I suspect krger than any creature we've ever had to do with before. And he's intelligent. But he is also insane." Tharl turned that over and finally rfiook his head. "What he is, in fact," Spartak amplified, "is the last survivor -- m our galaxy at least -- of the race from whom we inherited our starbips." Tharl stiffened. Spartak snapped, "Don't give me that Imperial propaganda that we built our own. I've studied ten years on Ann an world, and I'm satisfied that we went out from our original system -- whatever that was -- and found a cache of starships left by a previous ace. We converted them to our own use and spread through the galaxy, finding more of them wherever we went, but no other trace of their builders. Not that it matters, really, except that it gives us a set of parameters to define Belizuek." He ticked off points on his fingers. "Low oxygen. We have vague records to indicate that our predecessors were oxygen-breathers, as we are, but that they literally used up the resources of their own planets and went elsewhere before they needed to colonize the ones we eventually took over. Telepathic control of another species. This has been proposed as the ultimate in the domestication of animals. It fits. A view of the galaxy -- and that's perhaps the most important thing of all!" He jerked upright in his chair. "You've seen the picture of the galaxy which accompanies the 'proof' during the temple services? Didn't you notice that it's an Argian map that it's based on?" TTiarl could only mumble his answer. "I tell you it is. Because it shows the Big Dark. The Big Dark is a recent phenomenon; it's anomalous, so it's been carefully studied, and it's only some ten to twelve thousand years old. And at its present size... well, I'm convinced that Belizaek has only seen human repre sentations of the galaxy. That's the clincher for me. "I said he was insane. Why else would he have been left behind when the rest of his species took off for -- for wherever? Why else should he descend to this petty shift of domesticating human beings, to move him from star-system to starsystem? I got it direct, down in the maniac craving for power! And he couldn't get it from his own species, because when he tried he was made an outcast and abandoned." "He?" The word was almost a squeak from Tharl. # #T know what you're trying to X say," Spartak nodded. "If there's a living creature in every temple of Belizuek, why not speak of 'they'? This is the final evidence I have for his insanity. "Equipped with the kind of knowledge and techniques which the Empire enjoyed at the height of its power, it was estimated that a man could breed his kind from his own germ-plasm, artificially, to repopulate an abandoned planet. I have no doubt that Belizuek could do the same if he wished. But he doesn't wish. He's afraid of competition. The .part of him which is in the Penwyr temple is a second self, not a bred descendant, an offspring. Ten thousand years ago, before we spread through the galaxy, it was open and empty before him! And it took him that long to make up his mind that could trust himself on one single other planet besides Brinze! I say he's insane." "I see!" Eunora breathed. "That's why I had the impression that he was so large in time and space!" "Exactly. A vast number of identical selves. And he's telepathic between all of them." "Then how does he communicate with us? We're different!" "Do you think he eats the sacrifices he's given?" Spartak said with monumental disgust. "Never. He uses them as a biological amplifier till their brains are burned out, to provide a link between himself and his audience." Tharl felt for a chair and lowered himself into it without looking. "And you worked all this out since you arrived? Within a day?" "I -- " Spartak checked. He stared at Eunora, who was giggling. "You?" he said incredulously. "Not really," she countered. "It took your knowledge to solve the problem. But all day since we were in the temple I've been -- asking questions of your subconscious." Spartak felt sweat prickle on his forehead. "What you're going to be like when you grow up, I don't know! And if we've been deporting people like you to the rim ever since the foundation of the Enoh pire, what can be going on out there?" Still, that was irrelevant. He glared at Tharl. "Well, now you know what became of your wife and son; now you know the nature of the beast we're up against. What are you going to do -- order me to leave here and hide like a criminal, ot help me further?" IF don't see what I can dol" Tharl aid helplessly. your brothers have been captured, it'll be known who they are, and -- " S partak cut him short. "Are you in touch with any centers of resistance on Gard Island? You said the original temple was there." "Yes -- yes, that's right but... No, I know of no resistence movement there. It's become Bucyon's private preserve." "You know the city itself, perhaps?" "Oh yes. When your brother Vix celebrated the completion of his campaign, he included me in the honor guard at the Warden's palace. "In that case, we should make for Gard," Spartak said. "In any case. We'll try a direct attack on the original Belizuek that was brought to Asconel. A simple breach in the air-tight container should be enough." "So simple?" Tharl breathed. "Why, if I'd known -- " "You'd have gone to the temple yourself," Spartak finished for him. He checked, struck by a sudden thought. "What means would you have used?" "I'll show you," Tharl said eagerly, and went into the next room. There were scraping sounds. "Under the floor," Eunora whispered. "A secret cavity." And Tharl was back, cradling proudly in his arms a shiny energy gun. "The same with which I served your father and brother, sir," he announced. "And charged ready for use." Spartak pursed his lips. "Here now is your chance to do a far greater service. Will you undertake it? Tharl looked extremely unhappy, but he didn't say anything. "You must hide us here for at least a day, to give Tiorin a chance to rejoin us. This is the only meeting-place we have. During the daytime, however, you must go about as usual to avoid suspicion. While you're out, ask what means we can employ to get to Oard. Anything. A boat, a skjrboat, ndiatev can sdll be hired. And as soon as possible, we'll go." "We, sir?" Tharl ventured. "I understood your wife and your son -- " "And your brothers, sir." Tharl placed the butt of the gun on the ground and leaned on it, gazing into nowhere. "I'm not a coward -- but after such a long time, to have a plan of action... It takes me aback." Spartak refrained from pushing him any further. He yawned cavemously. "I must sleep," he muttered. "Though Tm not sure I can. Eunora -- " But she had already closed her eyes. iiQomeone's coming!" Eunora  whispered. "Officials!" Spartak jolted out of uneasy slumber. The long winter night had not yet given way to dawn, but the first thing he saw when he opened his eyes was Tharl, up and dressed and carrying a tray of breakfast: hot broth and bread. His face was pale with alarm. "Searching for us?" Spartak rapped. Eunora, nuzzled, shook her head. "Apnarentlv not. There are four of them going from house to house. One's a priest, I think. They aren't searching the houses. Just knocking at the doors and telling the people that..." "Telling them what?" Spartak urged. The girl bit her lip. "Tiorin and Vix were captured. There's going to be a grand ceremony at the chief temple on Card. They'll voluntarily give themselves up to Belizuek, and everyone who can is urged to go there and witness this final triumph of Bucyon." Spartak sat rock-still for long moments. "Do they not know about us?" "You'd think so, wouldn't you?" Eunora knitted her brows. "I think I understand, though. They're hoping you'll make a false step and reveal yourself." "That sounds like them, all right," Tharl said sourly. "They're coming closer," Eunora warned. "Only three or four houses away. We'd better get out of sight." Tensely, crouched in the concealment of a closet, they strained their cars for auditory confirmation of what she had detected, and when he let them out again Tharl gave it fresh emphasis. "Just as the little girl says," he muttered. "Everyone who possibly can is expected to travel to Gard and see your brothers sacrificed, sir. We'd best make haste, hadn't we?" "Not too fast," Spartak sighed. "Give them a chance to get over the hill. Then take this money and book us passage." A s they approached the dockside towards sunset, shivering in the chill blasts of icy foam that the night wind whipped off the estuary, two priests stood beside the gangway to their skimmer, searching the faces of all those that passed. "Are they looking for us, Eunora?" Spartak whispered. "Luckily no," she murmured in reply. "They're turning away people notoriously lax in their temple attendance. This trip is supposed to be a reward for loyal homage. I don't know what they're doing about strangers. So few people travel nowadays they hadn't considered the problem." Tharl drew a deep breath. "Leave this to me, sir," he suggested, and as they drew near the priests pushed his way forward. "Forgive me, sirs!" he shouted, and their heads turned. "Perhaps you'll remember, sirs, that when Belizuek first came to honor Penwyr with his presence my wife and my son were the very first to give him their total service. And I was bitter!" He shook his head in a parody of regret. "I know now it was foolish of me. Why, if the Warden's brothers themselves have returned and agreed to offer themselves up IF lo Bdizuek, what more powerful proof could anyone want that he is indeed the master of us all and truly superior?" "Clever!" Spartak whispered. "Is it going to work?" "Oh, yes," Eunora said with a twisted smile. "They're lapping it up. He'd only better be careful he doesn't overdo it -- one of them is thinking of singling him out for special temple duty." If they had been aware that the long bundle of clothing and provisions slung over Tharl's shoulder contained the energy gun he had produced last night, they would have been a deal less eager. But Belizuek was far away from the docks, and these were only human dupes. Tharl came to rejoin them when they were securely aboard, wiping sweat from his face, and blushing faintly at Spartak's compliments. "Too early for that, sir," he countered. "We haven't even cast off yet." In one way at least he was right. That voyage was among the most dreadful experiences of Spartak's entire life. To be with these three or four hundred , people who laughed and sang ribald songs while they passed canteens of precious wines and the typical Penwyr sour beer as they might on any festival excursion -- then, to remember with a jolt the excuse for such jollification: the planned sacrifice of his brothers, including Vix, whom many of these people had served in the old days, whom they had cheered as the son of the late Warden and brother of Hodat the heir-apparent... that was like living a nightmare. And all the time Eunora was alert for some keen-eyed person to pierce his disguise. The chances of his being betrayed receded somewhat when the word got about that he was a doctor, and a mother whose child was sensitive to seasickness came begging his help. The little boy recovered at once when Spartak tended him, and after that a shy succession of patients surrounded him, asking help and advice for an incredible range of complaints. Spartak's fury burned inside him like a coal. When he left Asconel for Annanworld, there had been no one hungry, no one very sick, and certainly no one suffering from the deficiency diseases. Yet time and again when he examined those who now presented themselves, he saw that their need was not for drugs, but for soap and water and a proper diet. Weeping sores. Ulcers. Gumi sickly sweet with pus. ChildreiA bones twisted into awkward curves. Eyes matted with a dirty yellow discharge. So the tale went on. More than once, as he was on the point of bursting out at some silly fool about the true reason for his condition, Eunora caught his eye and gave an almost imperceptible headshake, implying, "Don't! He'll go to the priest at once." The priest -- there was one aboard any passenger vessel on Asconel nowadays -- came to Spartak in the end; that encounter was hardly to be avoided. He put a mimber of curious questions which Spartak deftly dodged, trying to give the impression that the priest was making himself look ignorant by not knowing the answers already. In the end the trick worked and the priest made off, embarrassed without being sure why. I t was established beyond a doubt that half the people who had set off from northern islands Hke Penwyr would never get to Card in time, when they started to raise the traffic from the nearer ports the next day. The sea seemed to be crawling with passenger vessels. There were even skyboats overhead, the first Spartak had seen since his return. All were converging on Gard for the ceremony. Winter was behind them at this latitude; the sky was blue and the sun mild and warm. The tremendous strain the influx of pilgrims put on the resources of Gard city worked in their favor. With boats crowding into the port and disembarkation reduced to a panicky rush down the gangplanks so that room could be made for the next vessel, the guards and priests who supervised the travellers could not hope to keep control. Moreover, here was no povertystricken provincial town. Bucyon dearly liked his luxuries as much as anyone. And everything worked, to the wonder of the stranger children. Food was abundant, on quayside stalls and in the city's stores; gaudy posters, banners and streamers decorated the buildings for the great day tomorrow, and relic hawkers ofiu fered -- when there were no priests in sight -- such precious items as hairs from Bucyon's beard and Lydis's nail-clippings. Spartak, taken in at first by this deception, was half-minded to buy one of the relics and put it under the microscope to see if Lydis's alleged mind-reading powers were duo to a cellular mutation; then he realized these were frauds to trap the credulous. His heart ached as he beheld his former home. His knuckles whitened on the handle of the medical case he carried, now much depleted after the voyage. 'Tf I could only get next to Bucyon!" he whispered. "Not a chance," Tharl muttered, glancing around to make sure they were not overheard as they trudged, with thousands of others, toward the center of the city. Ahead, the streets were in full operation, and there were delighted squeals from the youngest children who had never seen a molecular-flow street before. "He's always guarded very strictly. And Lydis, who can read thoughts, never leaves his side." "Where is the temple?" Spartak demanded. "It used to be the Place of Grand Assembly," Tharl told him. Spartak came to a decision, arranged a meeting-place with Tharl for later, and sent him off to find them a place to stay. Then he and Eunora went straight to the temple. It had not been altered much to accommodate its change of function. Behind it loomed the dark riiape of the Warden's palace, now IF m Bucyon's home. The War Jen's I'hair had been moved forward lo mL-ke room for a huge gilded dome In fide there dwelt Belizuek; the original self of which all the local Belizuek's were only reflections, in Spartak's view. The sire of the dome took him aback. Either this Belizuek was a monster, or there were several layers of armour around him, in which case would even an energy gun...? He checked himself. Before making any plans, he needed to get details ot the planned ceremony. There was a gang of men at work assembling a high dais close to the Warden's chair; it only required a few friendly words and the flash of a five-circle coin to get the full program This dais was to be the place where Vix and Tiorin were displayed to anv in the crowd who might doubt their identity. From it they would tate their intention of entering voluntarily into the "full service" of Belizuek. Bucyon and Lydis would be present; they would leave the palace in ceremonial procession at such a time, reach the temple at uch another time, begin the ritual at such another time... Spartak seized on the crucial point that they would leave their groundcar at the far end of the horseshoe-shaped temple. He tipped their informant and returned thither. There were many idle sightseers around, so they attracted no special attention. "I have it!" he whispered, and mapped his fingers. He shot a glance at Eunora. "Will it work?" "I -- I don't know." She was very pale. "Can you get Tharl to the right place with his gun?" "I'm sure I can. I was raised in the Warden's palace, remember, and that dominates the far end ol the Assembly But am I asking too much of you?" "I don't think so," Eunora murmured. "Until I meet Lydis face to face I can't be sure. Bui I had a lot of practice in dissembling back home. I think even to a mind-reader I may be able to tell a lie." T he great day, when the last traces of the old order would be wiped away forever as the late Warden's brothers acknowledged the dominion of Belizuek and entered freely into his full service, dawned mild and sunny, and grew rapidly hot. Long before the scheduled time of the ceremony people were thronging into the streets. Those fortunate enough to view it in person crammed the horseshoe seating of the Place of Grand Assembly, where music and songs in honor of Belizuek whiled the time away, and the ordinary populace put on what they had left in the way of presentable clothing and made do with the public watch-screens and amateur tumblers fooling around in the gutters The dais was completed. Covered in gaudy banners, it stood waiting for the victims. Punctually on schedule, Bucyon -- gorgeous in ceremonial ar.mour that shone chrome-bright and daz#B IF zling -- entered his groundcar. Beside him, pale, very beautiful and dressed as always in a floor-long black gown, sat Lydis. The people disciplined their minds into adoring patterns, fearing the rumored talent which had brought her to her present eminance. Everywhere the. procession passed there were yells of delight and applause, and chanting in honor of Belizuek, and of Bucyon who had blessed Asconel by bringing him here. Occasionally a visitor from elsewhere on the planet, who remembered the old days well enough to have kindled a spark of envy at the continuing luxury of Gard contrasted with the poverty at home, shouted less fervently than the rest But soon the pressure of anxiety lest he be discovered drove him to outbellow his neighbors. It was a spectacle to dim the most vivid memory of the old days, anyhow: the guards, the priests in their ter the lovely Lydis and the handsome Bucyon, acknowledging the love of their subjects with an occasional gracious wave. And were not the last hangers-on of the old order due to renounce their pretensions today? C ertain unscheduled events also took place. Not long after the dignitaries began to fin their seats in Ae Assembly, a fat man in a front rank clapped his hand to his nape and looked to see if he had killed a stinging insect. There was nothing on his palm. Another minute or so, and he began to complain loudly to his neighbors that it was terribly hot. Sweat ran from his face. He fought for breath, loosening the neckband of his coat, and swore at the sun for beating down so fiercely. It was not long before he closed his eyes and began to breathe in enormous gasps. Alarmed, those around him sought help, and were relieved at the approach of a fair-bearded man who identified himself as a doctor. Instructions were crisply issued to carry the fat man to shade, rest him and let him recover his spirits. That attended to, the fair-bearded man fell talking with those who had appealed for his aid. It was entirely natural that as the arrival of Bucyon was signaled he should slip into the place the fat man had left vacant. It had not all gone so smoothly. As he tensed to see Bucyon enter the vast stadium-like temple Spartak was vaguely surprised to think that he was here exactly as arranged. Yesterday afternoon, when he found that Tharl had been overanxious to please, and provided them with accommodation in a place he felt fit for a Warden's son, there had been a lot of trouble. Ultimately they had had to settle for Ae rooms after all -- Gard was packed to overflowing with the pilgrims from overseas. To the Big Dark with fears of appearing conspicuous, anyway. The ort conversation he had had with those around him here had satisfied Inm that Bucyon did not rule wholly by the power of Belizuek. Here lie gathered were men and women who were conscious traitors; they would never be called on for the full service of Belizjek! They were Bucyness of raping Asconel. It was only to be expected. BuCyon's own forces -- even if along ith the priests you counted in the crews from a respectably sized spacefleet -- wouldn't suffice to administer a population of nine hundred But the proof of his suspicion made him feel sick. At least they h' !n't suspected him in their turn. He was acknowledged as a fit companion, a tribute to the glibness of his tongue and his courtly manners. Almost it seemed it was easier to conduct nefarious business in broad daylight than under the cover of night. The trouble they had had sneaking Tharl into the Warden's palace. With Eunora keeping watch for patrols so that they could dodge into shadow every time, they had still spent better than four hours getting ITiarl inside. Spartak's eyes strayed toward the palace. Was the man safe where he was supposed to be? T harl twisted himself into a marginally more comfortable position. The hot, clammy air from the discharge pipe of the air circulators coated his skin with dirty moisture. But he had gloves, and his hands would not slip on the switches of his gun. Lovingly he sighted it for the hundredth time on the distant golden dome shielding the alien monster Belizuek. He felt himself a changed person since the moment he met Spartak and his brothers. He had been given back his sense of purpose in life. He had been offered a chance to avenge the slaughter of his wife and son. He lowered the gun to a resting position and gave a sigh of contentment. Nothing else mattered. He was still bruised from a fall he had taken trying to get up the interior of this ventilation pipe,, still anxiout about the noise he'd made which might have alarmed a guard -- but apparently had not -- and both hungry and tired into the bargain. To the Big Dark with such complaintsi He had the important thing: a job to do. Once more he lifted the gun and peered through its telescope. IBs heart quickened. Spartak was in position among the dignitaries cm the steeply banked seating. It couldn't be much longer now. If only the litde girl played her part -- I T he next in the sequence of unscheduled events didn't come until Bucyon and Lydis were getting down from their groundcar. The archpriest Shry -- a curiously horrible figure, his back enormously bulging with some soft outgrowtii of tissue -- came to greet them. Bands played. The watchers cheered. Under the arms of the guards who held back the crowd, a little girl slipped like an eel, clutching a bunch of flowers. A cry of alarm went up. ir Guards leveled their guns. Then they hesitated, seeing how tiny she was, how well-scrubbed and attractive in her too-small, faded frock, and how innocuous the posy that she now shyly offered to Bucyon. The tryant scowled for a second, wondering who had arranged this "spontaneous" gesture of affection and why he had not been warned. He glanced at Lydis, who was frowning. But when after some seconds she did not tell him to desist, he put on a smile and accepted the flowers, afterward patting the girl's head. She was by now almost overcome by the strain of her great moment, and when Bucyon had gone on she slipped out of sight. Under one of the temporary stands wccted to watch the procession she keeled over and slept for more than half an hour. The posy had contained the last of Spartak's precious supply of the drug with which he had restored her to sanity. Handing it to Bucyon, she had triggered an injector that shot the entire dose into the fleshy ball of his thumb. And all the time she had slid away from the probing of Lydis and Shry. To resist them, to lie and deceive them for about ninety seconds, had cost her every ounce of her energy, so that when she fell down in a faint she knew neither where she was nor whether she would ever wake up. S partak felt a lurching sensation of relief. Bucyon was coming op the main aisle of the Assembly heading the posy he had given to Eunora. Provided the injector hadn't misfired, he was going to be extremely tractable... And that, presumably, was Shry. Spartak shivered as he studied the gross misshapen form of the archpriest. Yet Lydis found nothing distasteful in him; she accepted his arm as he helped her to her chair to one side of and behind the Warden's -- which Bucyon sank into. Fanfares made the very sky resound, and were themselves drowned by the bellows of applause that issued from the crowd. Then they brought Vix and Tiorfai down the aisle. Silence fell, for which Spartak was eternally grateful. He ached to see his brothers treated thus. Their disguises had been stripped, their hair restored to its original flaming red and they were clad in plain white suits, with their feet bare in an age-old penitential gesture. And there was apparently no sham about Bucyon's claim that they were to sacrifice themselves voluntarily. They were neither bound nor very closely guarded. And as they came down the long aisle they held their heads high and walked like heroes. The horrifying idea struck him that if they spotted him they would feel it an honor to give him away. He cursed not having found time to change his appearance once again, and made what shift he could to hide his face behind a raised hand. But they passed on, to take their places on the altar-like dais. All was in readiness. The only explanation he could ness to come to their own funeral was that Belizuek's emanations were already in control of their minds. And indeed, now he turned his attention to it, Spartak thought he could feel the same awe-inspiring presence which had impressed the Penwyr congregation. For a moment, indeed, it tempted him to yield, seeming to say, "Fooll Even if Belizuek is in truth a living creature, is he not the last of a line greater than the human race -- those squabbling borrowers of another's power?" And further: "What can I do to thwart the destiny of this whole planet? I, one man, with a feeble plan that depends on a dozen outrageous coincidences to succeed!" He hoped Tharl was going to be on time. P eople had recognized Vix and Tiorin, and their faces reflected their complete conviction about Bucyon's claims. He really did have them here; they really were about to enter Belizuek's service. Some, especially those near Spartak, had harbored doubts till this very last moment. Now they were mentally congratulating themselves on having thrown in their lot with the winning party. Shry stepped to the front of the dais and began to address the crowd in a whining bleat of a voice, describing the event they all knew ftty were about to witness. But no one complained; behind the words there slowly grew die sense of BeliIM zuek's presence, the aura of a maoter of galaxies, the sense of being im a supernatural creature's power. Spartak sweated and fidgeted. Ho had told Tharl to fire arbitrariljr five minutes after the commencement of the ceremony. Never had five minutes been so long! Already the waves of mental control were battering his deafness; most of the instantly. Something must have gone wrong. Tharl must have been discovered. The plan was a failure. Asconel was doomed and he with it. Shry reached the climax of his introduction, turned his twisted body and threw up an arm in a dramatic gesture towards Tiorin and x -- And with impeccable dieatrical timing, Tharl loosed the first of hii energy bolts against the golden dome enclosing BelizueL xxm T he second bolt followed, then the third, fourth and fifth, with the impersonal regularity of a clock's ticking. And on the fifth the golden dome was broached. A noise like a scream was heard, half with the ears, half with the mind, and a foul stink oozed oat over the crowd. It reminded Spartak of the stench from mud exposed by an exceptionally low tide at the mouth of a river much used for the disposal of sewage. Paralysis overtook everyone present for the space of long seconds -- except himself. The first shot had brasit hna IF to his feet. Before the last had struck, he had fought his way down the nearest transverse aisle and was clambering over the barrier separating the seats from the longitudinal aisle up which his brothers had so lately been marched on show. His head was ringing with both sound and soundless cries: the yells of dismay that had now broken out among the crowd, the incoherent jabbering of orders to the guards, somefthing being shrieked in a high panicky vcMce by the woman Lydis. All these were commonplace reactions to what had happened. But ovwiying them, permeating the very air, was a sudden terrible sense of doom, the emanation from Belizuek's mind as his body was exposed to the oxygen-rich air of this planet preferred by men. Spartak thought of the tens of millennia through which Belizuek's ecies had used up the atmospheres of their old worl, adapting little by little, growing used with every passing generation to a higher concentration of carbon dioxide, a lower percentage of available oxygen, nndl the contact of this rawer air was like acid poured on naked flesh. But that didn't matter right now. For tiie present he had the advantage of knowing what had happened. It was a slender weapon to offer against Bucyon's armor, but be had to make the most of it. He glanced at Vix and Tiorin. They were standing bewildered, blinking at each other and the fafiuliar Place ot Grand Assembly, like men newly woken from a bi dream. But it would take Baeiik a while to die, and until he did die, the invisible talons would remain fast on their minds. Now -- actioni Spartak drew himself up to his full height and confronted the man who till this morning had been only a name to him -- Bucyon, who. had come from space to rape and rum a beautiful world in the name ol an obscene monster. And who now. If he was .human, must be open for mastery by the first who seized control of him. "Bucyon!" Spartak bellowed, hands cupped around his mouth. The name seemed to plough through the oppressive mental aura like an energy bolt, leaving a visible track of white steam. "Bucyon, speak to your people! Spartak had spent long on his choice of phrase. That was his ultimate selection: a command both innocuous and deadly. Shry had gone wailing to see what harm was done to the golden dome. Half out of sight of Spartak, he was waving his arms frantically, trying to make guards and other priests come to him and help repair the damage. But the woman Lydis -- doubtless aware of the drug now coursing through Bucyon's body -- had jerked to her feet and now stood rockstill, her eyes burning Spartak. The call he had uttered took effect. Hoping for some guidance from Belizuek's human deputy, the crowd quieted, the guards tensed for anticipated orders, the priests hesitated as they made to obey Shry's beckoniag signals. "Speak to your people, the people of Asconel!" Spartak shouted again. "Tell them -- what is Beli zuekr But he was watching Lydis, not Bucyon, and was prepared when she gasped and tried to clutch at the big man's arm, wanting to prevent the betrayal which he could not help because the drug compelled him to total honesty. Spartak jumped forward, hurling himself at the overhang of the dais and rolling onto its boards like a high-jumper clearing a difficult mark. As he moved, he was still calling: "Bucyon, Bucyon, tell them, tell them -- the people of Asconel want to hear from you! Tell them about Belizuek! On the last breathless yell he was at Bucyon's side, and his shoulder slammed against Lydis's, heedless of her sex. Fragile as a foamed dummy, she staggered back and fell against the chair from which she had risen, and remained dazed for a few precious moments during which Spartak alone had Bucyon's ear. The drug took over his will, and he spoke helplessly to the attentive audience. "Belizuek is die last survivor of the species that ruled the galaxy before man." T he oppressive aura of hate and desperation redoubled its intenas if a storm cloud had settled over the AssemWy. Spartak risked a glance behind him, fearing that Ary might have contrived to effect repairs. "He's a material creature, isn't he?" he shouted. "Not a mystical spirit! Not a supernatural being! But a creature that had to feed and breathe as we do!" "Yes!" Bucyon agreed, helpless to deny it. "And that can be killed as we can!" "Yes!" Already the impact of this revelation was having its effect among the crowd. Those who had befieved otherwise were pale with dismay; the conscious traitors who had never been duped were yet paler, for some of them thought they recognized a familiar countenance behind the new beard on Spartak's face, despite the dyeing of his hair. "Why is he still with us, when the rest of his kind have gone? Tell them that!" "They cast him out," Bucyon answered. "They exiled him to the world called Brinze, where men found him." "Why?" "They said it was because he was insane!" Spittle was gathering on the corners of Bucyon's mouth and running down into his beard. His eyes were rimmed white as he strove and failed to stop his tongue from speaking. "Ah, and he was supposed to be immortal, wasn't he?" Spartak thundered. "And he's not! One breath of Asconel's clean clean sweet air, and he's dying!" But so slowly! Was there not another charge in Tharl's gun, to bum directly into Belizuek's substance? Spart could feel the maddened IS# IF will to survive which the creature was now broadcasting like raw energy, and so too could everyone else. In the living brains of those who surrounded him, human and alien thought were locked into terrible conflict, and -- And it stopped. Exactly as though the sun had come out, the sense of death and disaster ceased, and Spartak allowed himself to hope for victory. He half-turned, and was met by a scream from the cripple Shry. "Belizuek lives! It's only the servant who's died -- burned out -- his brain failed! Bring the captives over here!" Guards, still blindly obedient to Shry's command, made for the passively waiting Vix and Tiorin. 'Tell them to stop!' Spartak gasped at Bucyon. But Lydis was on her feet, thrusting herself between her overlord and the man who had dared to stand against him. "No!" she hissed, so close to Spartak that tiny drops flew from her rage-contorted mouth and struck his cheek. "Belizuek is All! Belizuek is the Master! Belizuek was before the galaxy was!" Time froze. The guards were poised to pinion Vix and Tiorm, the people were still too confused to act, and he could say nothing. Even crippled by the breach in his protective dome, there was no knowing what Belizuek could do if he were given a fresh victim to serve as a telepathic link between himself and his slaves. An idea? A glimmer of hope? Spartak pushed Lydis aside roughly and addressed Bucyon ooo more. "Tell the people what Belizuek does with his servants! Say what becomes of those who go bch hind the screen into his presence!" "He won't answer," Lydis spat "Your drug has spent itself, and I control his mind. Guards! Guards!" Indeed, Bucyon's face had takes on the vacant look of an idiot He stood swaying and gazing oat over the Assembly without seeing it A sense of defeat which had nodiing to do with Belizuek's emanations overcame Spartak. The guards closed on his brothers, Lydis laughed madly in triumph -- And Tharl let go the last charge from his energy gun. L ike a white-hot steel bar it blazed down toward the rent in the golden dome. In the final yard of its passage it speared Shry and turned him into a staggering horror wrapped in flame. Beyond him, only half spent on such a petty target, it burned deep, deep into the vitals of BeBzuek, and Lydis screamed as though the pain were hers alone. A unison shock raced through the crowd. The guards about to seize the captives turned. The priests cried out in terror, Spartak in rolief. Then Vix moved. He shook himself as thou rousing from a long sleep, clubbed both fists together and brought them up into the kidneys of the guard who would have seized him. The man gave a yell of agony and clapT#S ptd his hands to the seat of the pain. Vix reached past him and took his sidearm and his sword in simultaneous precise movements. The sidearm he thrust into Tiorin's hand as the other man also came to himself, and without a pause jabbed the sword's point home in the exposed neck of the disarmed guard. He opened his throat in a cry which had not been heard since Bucyon usurped the Warden's chair. It was like turning back the pages of the past. "For Ascone-e-e-!" And he was away. Spartak was giddy with the speed of it. His eyes could not follow the instant blur that his half-brother became, a red-topped living torch of disaster for those who stood in his way. Behind, calmer, Tiorin weighed the gun he had suddenly acquired, then with a thoughtful look raised and aimed it. A bolt scattered the priests from around the golden dome, sending them tumbling off the edge of its raised platform. Another dispersed those muddled guards who thought to come to the rescue of their fellows. Another discouraged a group of conscious traitors who were trying to get out of the far end of the Assembly. But by then Vix had cleared a path all the way to Spartak's side, and five men lay coughing the blood which smeared his blade. He clapped Spartak on the arm and yelled at him. "A miracle, brother, a miracle! I love you for it!" And he was after Bucyon himself, the sword swinging high to split the bemused usurper's skull. "Stop!" Spartak cried. "He's no more than a booby now -- his mind's gone!" "Let the people see!" Vix answered savagely, and struck. With that final blow, even before Bucyon toppled headlong, the berserk madness left him. In its place, there was a cold white fury that made Spartak shiver as he looked on it. Tiorin came forward to stand with his brothers. No one' lifted a hand to prevent him. "I'm Vix of Asconel!" Vix roared at the frightened people. "Here's Tiorin, your rightful Warden! Here's Spartak our brother to whom we owe our deliverance and yours!' He pointed with his sword, and the blade dripped red. "And here's the last of those who led you by the nose!" Vix bellowed. "The woman Lydis who betrayed my brother!" He whirled, and was quick enough to grasp her by the robe as she made to flee. The robe tore, fell away, exposed her maggot-pale body to the pitiless glare of the noontide sun. There was utter silence. Spartak felt nausea rise to choke his throat. Lydis was not a human mutant, accidentally gifted with the power to read minds. She was a tool of Belizuek. And instead of breasts on the front of her torso, she had a black pulsating growth that squirmed and leaked a stinking ichor as it followed its alien parent into the doorway of death. The crowd saw. The crowd rose IF vp, and panicked, and fled, and left the brothers to their solitary triumph. were together again, in the i X Warden's suite of the palace: the brothers, and those who had most signally served Asconel during hs time of terror, among whom were Tharl and Eunora. The mutant firl sat a little apart, clutching in both hands a big cup of sweet fruitjuice, while the men relaxed over wine of Asconel's finest vintage. Tharl had taken a place next  to her, as a symbol of apology for the way he had first reacted to the cws of her talent. "TTiat's what turned the tide for # ," Spartak murmured, thinking of #ie way Lydis's robe had fluttered to the ground. 'Well, obviously," Tiorin agreed from the head of the table around which they had gathered. 'Tt turnad my stomach, I tell you frankly. And I'd already begun to suspect omething of the sort." "But how could Hodat not have known?" Vix snapped. Tharl cleared his throat. "I've been making some inquiries. If you'll forgive my admitting that I probed into the private affairs of your family...?" "Go on," said Spartak. "Our private affairs are now of public Interest." "Well put, sir. In fact, what turned up was to your late brother's great credit. There was no foundation for the common gossip about a liaison between him and Lydis He'd stuck strictly to his origins i intention of marrying a woman who'd advantage Asconel's future by allying us with some other prosperous world. He was deluded into believing that Lydis's mind-reading was -- well -- at his service, so to speak, and he flattered and bribed her to make her stay on his side." "Where did the marriage story get started, then?" Tiorin asked. "Who can say?" Tharl shrugged. "Perhaps she planted the rumor herself. We'll never know now." True enough. The death of her alien parasite had killed her within an hour. "Speaking of things to people's credit," Tiorin murmured, "I don't believe I ever got around to complimenting you, Eunora. I'm sure Spartak and Vix have stood deputy for me, but now things are less hectic than they were, I must thank you. And ask you something, too." He paused. Everyone grinned broadly. They had become perfectly accustomed to Eunora's talent, and the last trace of the Empire's antimutant policy had faded even from Tharl's mind. # # T T I withstood the probing Tl of both Lydis and Shry while I was giving the flowers to Bucyon," Eunora nodded. I don't think I shall ever know. All I remember is the sense of shock which I had when I realized the two things I hadn't known beforehand: first, that Lydis was directly in contact with Belizuek, and second, that Shry was also, but far more -- more firmly." "The parasitic growth on his back," Spartak put in, "must have weighed as much as he did." "And felt like it," Eunora agreed grimly. "All I can say is that when I reacted to the shock, I must have forced myself into the identity Id taken on I was just a simple-minded little girl, overawed at being in the great man's presence, scared at my own daring in offering him the flowers... I blanked out until I came to under the stand half an hour later, and then I had to hide to keep out of the way of all the people who were fleeing from this final horror, the exposure of Lydis." "But that's what turned the tide, as I said," Spartak repeated. "Even with Belizuek dying, and cut off from mental contact with his slaves; even with Bucyon killed in front of tiiem, there were people in that crowd who'd staked their futures on Bucyon and to the Big Dark with the rest of the citizens. Let 'em rotr Tiorin's face darkened. "Don't I know iti Most of them came fawning to me directly, saying didn't I want the cooperation of those who had been administering the planet under Bucyon because they knew all the ropes now... Some of them were men I'd known in father's day, too. And of course, a lot more of them tried to bribe their way offworld. But we caught most of them, I think." "Excuse me, sirs," Tharl put in diffidently, "mething Fve been wondering... How was it that killing the -- the main Belizuek got rid of all the others so easily?' "Hmmm?" Spartak turned his head. "Oh, yes. I wasn't absolutely right in what I told you back at Penwyr, but nearly so. Remember I told you that Belizuek was insane, and especially afraid of competition, even from his own derived images?" Tharl nodded, frowning with concentration but making a gallant effort to follow Spartak's exposition. "For fear that one of his -- ah -- duplicates should achieve independence and usurp his uniqueness, he'd made sure the mental linkage between them was very tight. It proved too tight. The effect of death on the central organism was reflected in a psychic paralysis of all the others. They could have existed as separate entities -- but he'd forbidden them to." He shrugged, and Tharl muttered thanks. "I'll tell you something, sir," he added after a moment. "You came to me later and congratulated me on the uncanny rightness of the timing for the last bolt I fired, yes?" "Agreed!" Tiorin said warmly. "It was a real crisis point -- " "Well, sir," Tharl broke in, looking unaccountably depressed, "I'd saved that bolt, fora mixture of all sorts of reasons. First I was going to save it for myself. Then I thought, if I'm discovered, all I need do is jump down this shaft I'm in -- a fall of a hundred-odd feet into a rockhard floor should finish me off. So instead I saved it in case you were wrong about the way to kill Belizuek. I figured I could at least kill Bucyon if he IF went through with his plan to sacrifice you." "But you fired again before I truck Bucyon down," Vix objected. "Yes, sir. I thought and thought, and for a long time I was worried because Spartak was standing so close to Bucyon, I couldn't get a clear shot. Then finally T decided it was taking too long for things to settle down. I couldn't have completed the job. And there was a clear shot at Shry, who was after all Belizuek's chief spokesman and chaplain to Bucyon and all the rest of it. I figured if Belizuek was already dead, he'd be in a really frantic state, and he wasn't -- he was calling people up to help him, and peering into the hole my bolts had made, as I could see clearly through the telescope on my gun... So I said, 'What's more likely to put a stiff dose of fear in their guts than to see Belizuek's best-beloved shriveled like a leaf in a fire?' And I let the last bolt go." "To which decision we owe the fact that we're here now," Tiorin said soberly. # Ayr ay I ask a question, WarTharl said formally. "Go ahead." "Are your brothers going to stay here now? I feel Asconel needs them still." Tiorin glanced at the other two, inviting them to speak for themsdves. "No," Vix said gruffly, and got to his feet. He paced across to the window and stood with his back to them as he went on. "No, a fighting man is a center of discord on a peaceful world, and that's what Asconel is going to be from now on. I'll away back to my roving. And -- and there's something else, too." He didn't elaborate, but neither of his brothers had to ask what he meant. Vineta had died during the day following their capture by the priests from the injuries sustained when she was rfiot down. And for the first time in his life, the loas of one of his women had touched his heart. He could not bear to remain on the world where Vineta had died. "You, Spartak?" Tiorin said, to distract them from the vaguely embarrassed silence that followed. "No, I shan't stay here either, Spartak said at length. "Oh, I'll n be leaving till I'm sure Asconel is on the proper orbit again, but in a year or so I'll say farewell." "I shall regret your loss," Tioria said quietly. "But as you wish. Back to your studies on Annanworld, then?" "Annanworld? Oh no." Spartak gave a smile that made him look briefly like a wild beast. "Why not?" Vix demanded, surprised. He turned away from the window to face them again. "The way I understood it, your order would take you back if you didn't soil your hands with violence while you were away. And you didn't. Everything you did to help overthrow Bucyon was of the nature of -- well -- of scheming rather than fighting. Or are they so super-subtle #f they'd define what you did to him as violence?" "No, we distinguish force from violence, and force is occasionally unavoidable... But why should I saw 'we'?" Spartak leaned back m his chair. "I'm not returning. I'm sure of that. "You see, after much cogitation I've come to a conclusion. My Superior, Father Erton, was half right as well as half wrong when he warned me against leaving for Asconel. The rightness lay in his saying that to stand against the -- what do they call it? -- the onset of the Long Night was beyond any man's powers. What we've done here on Asconel is good, and worth it. But it's not turned the tide of galactic decline, has it? Only built an island aroimd which Ae tide will flow. Perhaps the clearest warning lies in the fact diat one mentally sick survivOT of a race whi grew weary and departed befOTc we left our original system could bring one of our finest planets into total subjugation. "I'm going to look for the seeds of the first truly htiman gahictic conquest. Fm going to the rim, to the worlds where for ten thousand years the Empire shipped its mtir tants and its misfits, and where rumor says men -- yes, men, for they're born of human loins -- build their own starships instead of borrowing the leavings of another species. I don't know exactly where to make for, but a good start might be to resume our interrupted journey to Nylock. Hm, Eunora?" He shot a twinkling grin at the mutant girl. "And when I find someone in a position to do something, I shall report on the existence of a world called Brinze. For the priests of Belizuek were human too, though they'd sold their birthright and their power of free thought. And before I die I hope to see the people there set at liberty as those of Asconel have already been." The words died in the silent room. Finally Vix went to Spartak's side and stood gazing down at him. "You're right," be said. "And if you want a ship and a pilot, say the word!" He put out his hand. IF nmam Fastest-Growing New Science-Fiction Magazine! Don't mail the coupon -- if you want to keep the magazine intact -- just order on a plain sheet of paper -- but, however you do it, rush in your that readers call "the best thing that's happened to science fiction in a dozen years" -- the magazine that has already brought you great novels by Arthur C. Clarke and Philip K. Dick -- novelettes and complete short novels by Murray Leinster, Keith Laumer, J. T. McIntosh and a dozen other favorite writers, etc. Every issue is new... exciting... enjoyable! Don't wait -- subscribe today! You can order them separately at # each postpaid -- OR -- list issues desired below and we will ship them at once and deuct that number from your subscription. #I Hudson Street, New York, N. Y. # I at your special price of only #. I enclose payment herewith. My subscription is ED new, ED renewal. Name Address City Zone State I lf you want back issues, check attached box. One subscription issue will be subtracted for each back issue order. Send me back Issues I as follows: S r#i, n# # , D##, I n##, D##, n##, I ##, n##, n##, I  ##, #!!, n##. I J No. GF-# by Emsh No. CF-# by Emsh The umpteenth corollary of Finagle's General Law of Dynamic Negatives says: "No books are ever lost by loaning except ones you particularly want to keep." gnur amr ijprp No. CM-# by Cullen Rapp ) K Name He p No. CX-# by Lynd Ward The designs shown above are the only ( # for #; #, #; #, # with owner's name imprinted All Postpaid. Add state sales tax, if any. won't run off with your books if you put inside the front cover of each book... a gummed bookplate with your name printed on it!  #c Beginning This Issue -- A Great New Science-Fiction Novel Author of The Skylark of Valeron , Galactic Patrol , Gray Lensman, etc. Worlds of brings you the finest in science fiction Don't delay -- send in your subscription order today of IF delivered to your door, bringing you stories by all your favorites in science fiction! His celebrated Retief stories and others appear regularly in IF -- fast-moving, comic yarns of diplomatic skullduggery out on the frontiers of the stars! still to come! And coming soon -- Fourth and greatest of the immortal "Skylark" stories, his memorable serials! Send in your order today and we will send you the next newsstand price. But act now! Use this order blank or order by letter -- but don't delay!  IF -- Subscription Department  #I Hudson Street, New York, N. Y. # Yes, send me the next # issues of IF! I enclose #.  New  Renewal Name I Address City State Zip No.  (Outside of N. and S. America add # for postage) VoL #, No. # Frederlk Po hi. Editor David Perton , Production Mgr . Robert M. Guinn , Publisher Diane Sullivan , Associate Editor Mavis Fisher , Subs . Mgr. !F published monthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, Robert M. Guinn, President, Vol. #, No. #. Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York #, New York. #c per copy. Subscriptions # issues # in the United States, Canada, Mexico, South America and Central America and U.S. possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All rights, including translations reserved. All material submitted must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelope. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories are fiction, and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in the U. S. A. by the Guinn Company, New York #, N. Y. IF  Editorial Out of the Idiot Box T his month's Hue  Cry , you'll note, contains some discussion about the parlous state of science fiction on television. What we've printed is only the visible tip of the iceberg:; we've had a lot of mail on the subject. Generally speaking, the letters have run along these lines: (#) Science fiction on TV was pretty awful, but (#) pretty awful science fiction is better than no science fiction at all, so we wish we could get it back. There is a reason video sf has been -- well -- not as good as it could be, let's say politely. The reason is not that everyone connected with television on the producing and packaging end is an illtempered halfwit; nor is it that Hollywood has never heard of science fiction; nor is it that the medium is simply unable to handle science-fiction ideas. A few months ago we spent some time in Hollywood talking with a number of producers, network representatives, writers and even actors about science-fiction-on-TV. A great many of them turned out to have a pretty good understanding of science fiction, which may not be so surprising, at that -- after all, they have the likes of Bob Bloch, Ray Bradbury, Harlan Ellison, Robert Sheckley, Jerome Bixby and a good many others right there working in their own vineyards to advise them. And just the other day we spent a pleasurable afternoon with a representative of the British Broadcasting Corporation, going over plans for science-fiction show, which will be on the air shortly. For from where we sit, we have come to the conclusion that what's wrong with American science-fiction television is what's wrong with American television in general: It is the fault of the networks' competitive striving for ratings. When the pundits of Gloppy Broadcasting System sit down to contemplate the merits of a projected science-fiction program, they don't merely wonder whether or not it will be any good. Or even whether it will attract a wide audience. Or even whether it will do better than the rival programs. Where they get into trouble U when they start to ask themselves where it fits into their strategic pattern, capitalizing on the audience from the show before and building a lazy, non-dial-switching audience for the show that follows. Listeners don't have much to say about it. Not even sponsors have much to say about it. And it is reaching a point where the network executives themselves don't have much to say about it. B ut there's hope! We do think that a few more years may show us a brighter prospect; for by then air in numbers enough, and with organization enough, to give us all variety and quality. And then we might get some truly first-rate programs in many areas -- science fiction included! be generally told -- things you ought to know. Great truths are dangerous to some -- but factors for personal power and accomplishment in the hands of those who understand them. Behind the tales of the miracles and mysteries of the ancients, lie centuries of their secret probing into nature's laws -- their amazing discoveries of the hidden processes of man's mind, and the mastery of life's problems. Once shrouded in mystery to avoid their destruction by mass fear and ignorance, these facts remain a useful heritage for the thousands of men and women who privately use them in their homes today. The Rosicrucians (not a religious organization) an age-old brotherhood of learning, nave preserved this secret wisdom in their archives for centuries. They now invite you to share the practical helpfulness of their teachings . Write today for a free copy of the book, 'The Mastery of Life." Within its pages may lie a new life of opportunity for you. Address: Scribe a. N X. J Scribe A.N.X. i San Jose, California  Please send me the free book, The Mastery J , of Life, which explains how I may learn to J i use my faculties and powers of mind.  ' Name i i  Address I LCit ! Part One When Doctor Richard Ballinger Seaton liberated the intra-atomic energy of matter he started something that he was completely unable to handle. If the situation and condition could have been confined to Earth things would have been bad enough, what with Doctor Marc C. DuQuesne and the World Steel Corporation and other rapacious persons and organizations murderously determined to monopolize this tremendous new source of power, but it was not and could not be so confined. Seaton and M. Reynolds tor-scientist-explorer, built a small, crude spaceship; which Dorothy Vaneman, Seaton's fiancee, christened the Skylark. DuQuesne and the World Steel Corporation promptly duplicated this vessel and took to space to try to do away with Seaton and Crane and all others who could block the Corporation's attainment of monopoly. And both Seaton and DuQuesne, each in a succession of ever-larger and ever-better spaceships, visited world after populated world. They encountered many and varied civilizations -- monstrous, non-human, humanoid, near-human and strictly human civilizations. Some of these races were less intelligent than the humanity of Earth. Some were very much like us. Some -- particularly the ancient, greenskinned Norlammians of the incredibly copper-rich Green or Central System -- possessed vastly greater knowledge. DuQuesne learned, but did not teach; took, but did not give. He was out for Marc C. DuQuesne first, last, and all times in between his tremendous ability was concentrated upon getting, by the use of any possible mean whatever, a monopoly of the extremely rare metal rovolon -- the key to intra-atomic energy. Seaton and Crane, on the other hand, were equally single-mindedly determined that Seaton's discovery should be devoted to the good of all humanity wherever situate, and to that of all civilizations compatible with humanity. The Tellurians encountered a group of immaterial, disembodied minds: extremely intelligent and extraordinarily powerful patterns of pure sixth-order force. DuQuesne joined them; and the problem thus posed was a tremendous one indeed. Seaton solved it, however, by encapsulating the whole group of "pure intellectuals" in a stasis of time and launching the capsule on a voyage that should endure throughout almost aU of total time and reach almost the farthermost limit of space. Having removed the greatest obstacle to progress, the Seaton-Crane party returned to Earth's solar system in their space-flying worldlet the Skylark of Valeron and began to bring order out of the chaos that all Earth then was. IF  Serial Here's the grand conclusion of science fiction's greatest series -- Seaton and DuQuesne against a galaxy of unconquerable foes I s. o. s. A ppearances are deceiving. A polished chunk of metal that shines like a Christmas-tree ornament may hold -- and release -- energy to destroy a city. A seed is quite another order of being to the murderous majesty of a toppling tree. A match flame can become a holocaust. And the chain of events that can unseat the rulers of galaxies can begin in a cozy living room, before a hearth... Outwardly, the comfortable (if f omewhat splendidly furnished) living room of the home of the Richard Ballinger Seatons of Earth presented a peaceful scene. Peaceful? It was sheerly pastoral! Seaton and Dorothy, his spectacularly auburnhaired wife, sat on a davenport, holding hands. A fire of pine logs burned slowly, crackling occasionally and sending sparks against the fine brcnze screen of the fireplace. Richard Ballinger Seaton Junior lay on the rug, trying doggedly, silently, and manfully, if unsuccessfully, to wriggle toward those entrancing flames. Inwardly, however, R was very much otherwise. Dorothy's normally pleasant -- as well as beautiful -- face wore a veritable scowl. The dinner they had just eaten had been over two hours late; wherefore not one single item of it had been fit to feed to a pig. Furthermore, and worse, Dick was not relaxed and was not paying any attention to her at all. He was still wound up tight; was adll concentrating on the multitude of messages driving into his brain through the button in his left ear -- messages of such urgency of drive that she herself could actually read them, even though she was wearing no apparatus whatever. She reached up twitched the button out of his ear, and tossed it onto a table. "Will you please lay off of that stuff for a minute, Dick?" ahe demanded. Tm fed up to the eyeballs with this business of you and no time sleep. You never had any such horrible black circles under  your eyes before and you're getting positively scrawny. You've got to quit it. Can't you let somebody else carry some of the load? Delegate some authority?" "I'm delegating all I possibly can already, Red-Top." Seaton absently rubbed his ear. Until Dorothy had flipped it away, the button had been carrying to him a transcription of the taped reports of more than one hundred Planetary Observers from the planet of Norlamin, each with the I. Q. of an Einstein and the sagacity of an owl. The last report had had to do with plentiful supplies of X metal that had been turned up on a planet of Omicron Eridani, and the decision to dispatch a fleet of cargo-carrying ships to fetch them away. But he admitted grudgingly to himself that that particular decision had already been made. His wife was a nearer problem. Paying full attention to her now, he put his arm around her and squeezed. "Converting a whole planet practically all at once to use fourth-, fifth-, and sixth-order stuff is a job of word, believe me. It's all so new and so tough that not too many people can handle any part of it. It takes brains. And what makes it extra tough is that altogether too many people who are smart enough to learn it are crooks. Shysters -- hoodlers -- sticky-fingers generally. But I think we're just about over the hump. I wouldn't wonder if these Norlaminian 'Observers' -- snoopers, really -- from the Country of Youth will turn out to be the answer to prayer." IP "They'd better," she said, darkly. "At least, something had better." "Besides, if you think I look like the wrath of God, take a good look at Mart sometime. He's having more grief than I am." "I already have; he looks like a refugee from a concentration camp. Peggy was screaming about it this morning, and we're both going to just simply... #hat the girls intended to do was not revealed, for at that moment there appeared in the air before them the projected simulacra of eight green-skinned, more-or-lesshuman men; the men with whom they had worked so long; the ablest thinkers of the Central System. There was majestic Fodan, the Chief of the Five of Norlamin; there was white-bearded Orion, the First of Astronomy; Rovol, the First of Rays; Astron, the First of Energy; Drasnik, the First of Psychology; Satrazon and Caslor, the Firsts of Chemistry and of Mechanism, respectively; and -- in some ways not the least -- there was that powerhouse of thought, Sacner Carfon the two thousand three hundred forty-sixth: the hairless, almost porpoise-like Chief of the Council of the watery planet Dasor. They were not present in the flesh. But their energy projections were as seemingly solid as Seaton's own tall, lean body. "We come, Overlord of the System, upon a matter of -- " the Chief of the Five began. "Don't call me 'Overlord. PWs-." Seaton broke in, with grim foreboding in his eye, while Dorothy y # stiffened rigidly in the circle of his arms. Both knew that those masters of thought could scarcely be prevailed upon to leave their own worlds even via projection. For all eight of them to come this far -- almost halfway across the galaxy! -- meant that something was very wrong indeed. "I've told you a dozen times, not only I ain't no Overlord but I don't want to be and won't be. I don't like to play God -- I simply have not got what it takes." " 'Coordinator', then, which is of course a far better term for all except the more primitive races," Fodan went imperturbably on. "We have told you, youth, not a dozen times, but once, which should have been sufficient, that your young and vigorous race possesses qualities that our immensely older peoples po longer have. You, as the ablest individual of your race, are uniquely qualified to serve total civilization Thus, whenever your services become necessary, you will so serve. Your services have again become necessary. Orion, in whose province the matter primarily lies, will explain." Seaton nodded to himself. It was going to be bad, all right, he thought as the First of Astronomy took over. "You, friend Richard, with some help from us, succeeded in encapsulating a group of malignant immaterial entities, including the disembodied personality of your fellowscientist Doctor Marc C. DuQuesne, in a stasis of time. This capsule, within which no time whatever could or can elapse, was launched IF into space with a linear acceleration of approximately three times ten to the twelfth centimeters per second squared. It was designed and powered to travel at that acceleration for omething over one hundred thouend of which time it was to have been rotated through the fourth dimension into an unknown and unknowable location in normal threedimensional space." "That's right," Seaton said. "And k will. It'll do just exactly that. Those pure-intellectual louses are gone for pood; and so is Blackie DuQuesne." "You err, youth," corrected the Norlaminian. "You did not allow us time sufficient to consider and to evaluate all the many factors involved. Rigid analysis and extended computation show that the probability approaches unity that the capsule of stasis will, almost certainly within one Tellurian year of its launching and highly probably in much less time, encounter celestial matter of sufficient density to volatilize its uranium power bars. This event will of course allow the stasis of time to collapse and the imprisoned immaterial entities will be liberated; in precisely the same condition as in the instant oftheir encapsulation." D orothy Seaton gasped. Even her husband showed that he was riiaken. DuQuesne and the Immortals free? But -- "But it can't!" he fairly yelled the protest "It'll dodge -- it's built to dodge anything that dense!" "At ordinary -- or even extraordinary -- velocities, yes," the ancient sage agreed, unmoved. "Its speed of reaction is great, yes; a rather small That interval of time, however, while small, is very large indeed relative to zero. Compute for yourself, please, what distance that capsule will in theory traverse during that space of time at the end of only one third of one of your years." Seaton strode across the room and uncovered a machine that resembled somewhat a small, unpretentious desk calculator. He picked up a helmet and thought into it briefly; then stared appalled at the figure that appeared on a tape. "My -- aunt's -- cat's -- kittens' -- pants -- buttons," he said, slowly. "It'd've been smarter, maybe, to've put 'em in orbit around a planetless sun... And I don't suppose there's a Chinaman's chance of catching 'em again that same way." "No. Those minds are competent," agreed the Norlaminian. "Only one point is clear. You must again activate the Skylark of Valeron and again wear its sixth-order controller, since we know of no other entity who either can wear it or should. We eight are here to confer and, on the basis of the few data now available, to plan." Dorothy Seaton was highly averse t# having the appearance of her living room ruined by office equipment. Seaton, however, was living and working under such high tension that he had to have almost instant access to the ValeroiTs Brain, at any time of the day or night or wherever he might be. Hence this compromise -- Inconspicuous machines, each direct-connected to the cubic mile of ultra-miniaturization that was the Brain. E. E. S. Seaton scowled in concentration for two long minutes. It was a measure of the strain that had been working on him that it took that long. As he had said, he was no God, and didn't want to be. He had not gone looking for either conquest or glory. One thing at a time... but that "one thing" had successively led him across a galaxy, into another dimension, through many a hard and desperate fight against some of the most keen-honed killers of a universe. His gray eyes hardened. Of all those killers, it was Blackie DuQuesne who posed the greatest threat -- to civilization, to Seaton himself, and above all to his wife, Dorothy. DuQuesne at large was deadly. "All right," he snapped at last. "If that's all that's in the wood, I suppose that's the way it'll have to be carved." The Norlaminian merely nodded. He, at least, had had no doubts of how Seaton would react to the challenge. Typically, once Seaton had decided speed became of the essence. "We'll start moving now," he barked. "The parameters give us up to a year -- maybe -- but from this minute we act as though DuQuesne and the Intellectuals are back in circulation right now . So if one erf you -- Rovd? -- will put beams on Mari and Peg and project them over here, weH get right at it" And Dorothy, her face turning so white that a line of freckles stood boldly out across the bridge of her nose, picked the baby up and clasped him fiercely, protectively to her breast. M Reynolds ("Martin" or "Mart") Crane was tall, slender, imperturbable; his blackhaired, ivory-skinned wife Margaret was tall and whistle stacked -- she and Dorothy were just about of a size and a shape. In a second or two their full working projections appeared, standing in the middle of the room facing the Seatons -- projections so exactly true to life and so solid-seeming as to give no indication whatever that they were not composed of fabric and of flesh and bone and blood. Seaton stood up and half-bowed to Margaret, but wasted no time in getting down to business. "Hi, Peg -- Mart. He briefed you?" "Up to the moment, yes," Crane replied. "You know, then, that some time in the indeterminate but not too distant future all hell is going to be out for noon. Any way I scan it, h looks to me as though, more or less shortly, we're going to be spurlos versenkt -- sunk without a trace." "You err, youth." Drasnik, the First of Psychology of Norlamin, spoke quite sharply, for him. "Your thinking is loose, turbid, confused; inexcusably superficial; completely... " "But you know what their top man said!" Seaton snapped. "The one they called 'One' -- and he wasn't kidding, either, believe me!" "I do, youth. I know more than that, since they visited us long since. They were not exactly 'kidding you, perhaps, but your several various interpretations of One's actual words IP nod actions were inconsistent with any and every aspect of the truth. Those words and actions were in all probability designed to elicit such responses and reactions as would enable him to analyze and classify your race. Having done so, the probability approaches unity that you will not again encounter him or any of his group." "My -- God!" Dorothy, drawing a tremendously deep breath, put Dick the Small back down on the rug and left him to his own devices. "That makes sense... I was scared simply witless." "Maybe," Seaton admitted, "as far as One and the rest of his original gang are concerned. But there's still DuQuesne. And if Blackie DuQuesne, even as an immaterial pattern of pure sixth-order force, thinks that way about me I'm a Digger Indian." "Ah, yes; DuQuesne. One question, please, to clarify my thinking. Can you, do you think, even with the fullest use of all the resources of your Skylark of Valeron, release the intact mind from any body?" "Of course I... oh, I see what you mean. Just a minute; I think probably I can find out from here." He went over to his calculator-like instrument, put on a helmet, and stood motionless for a couple of minutes while the great brain of the machine made its computations. Then, wearing a sheepish grin: "A flat bust. I not only couldn't, I didn't," he reported, cheerfully. "So One not only did the business, but he was good enough to make me know that I was doing it. What an operator!" He sobered, thought intensely, then went on, "So they sucked us in. Played with us." "You are now beginning to think clearly, youth," Drasnik said. "We come now, then, to lesser probabilities. DuQuesne's mind, of itself, is a mind of power." "You can broadcast that to the allattentive universe," Seaton said. "Question: how much stuff has he got now? We know he's got the fifth order down solid. Incarnate, he didn't know any more than that However, mind is a pattern of sixthorder force. Knowing what we went through to get the sixth, and that we haven't got it all yet by seven thousand rows of Christmas trees, the first sub-question asks itself: Can a free mind analyze itself completely enough to work out and to handle the entire order of force in which it lies? "We may assume, I think, that One could have given DuQuesne full knowledge of the sixth if he felt like it. The second sub-question, then, is; did he? If those questions aren't enough to start with I can think of plenty more." "They are enough, youth," Fodan said. "You have pointed out the crux. We will now discuss the matter. Since this first phase lies largely in your province, Drasnik, you wfll now take over." The discussion mounted, and A grew, and went on and on. Silently Dorothy slipped away, and the projection of force that was Margaret Crane followed her into the kitchen. There was no need for Dorothy to prepare coffee and sandwiches for her husband, not by hand; one thought into a controller would have produced any desired amount of any desired comestibles. But she wanted something to do. Both girls knew from experience that a conference of this sort might go on for hours; and Dorothy knew that with food placed before him, Seaton would eat; without it, he would never notice the lack. She did not, of course, prepare anything for the others. They were not there. Their bodies were at varying distances -- a few miles for Crane and his wife, an unthinkable number of parsecs for the Norlaminians and Sacner Carfon. The distance between Earth and the Green System was so unthinkably vast that there was no point in trying to express it in numbers of miles, or even parsecs. The central green sun of the cluster that held Norlamin, Osnome and Dasor was visible from Earth, all right -- in Earth's hugest optical telescopes, as a tiny, #th-magnitude point -- but the light that reached Earth had been on its way for tens of thousand of years before Seaton's ancestors had turned from hunting to agriculture, had taken off their crude skins and begun to build houses, cities, machines and, ultimately, spaceships. To all of this Dorothy and Peggy Crane were no strangers; they had been themselves in such projections countless times. If they were more than usually silent, it was not because of the astonishing quality of the meeting that was taking place in the Seatons' living room, but because of die subject of that meeting. Both Dorothy and Peg knew Marc DuQuesne well. Both of them had experienced his cold, impersonal deadliness. Neither wanted to come close to it again. Back in the living room, Seaton was saying: "If One gave DuQuesne all of the sixth-order force patterns, he can be anywhere and can do practically anything. So he probably didn't. On the other hand if One didn't give him any of it DuQuesne couldn't get back here in forty lifetimes. So he probably gave him some of it. The drive and the projector, at least. Maybe as much as we have, to equalize us. Maybe One figured he owed the ape that much. Whatever the truth may be, we've got to assume that DuQuesne knows as much as we do about sixth-order forces." He paused, then corrected himself. "If we're smart we'll assume that he knows more than we do. So we'll have to find somebody else who knows more than we do to learn from. Question -- how do we go about doing that? Not by just wandering around the galaxy at random, looking; that's one certain damn sure thing." "It is indeed," the moderator agreed. "Sacner Carfon, you have, I think, a contribution to make at this point?" "I have?" The Dasorian was surprised at first, but caught on quickly. "Oh -- perhaps I have, at that By using Seaton's power and that of the Brain on the Fodan-Carfon band of the sixth, it will undoubtedIF ly be possible to broadcast a thought all, the Norlaminians and Sacner that would affect selected mentaliCarfon knew what they were doing, ties wherever situate in any galaxy Yet he could see complications. The of this universe." Fodan-Carfon band of the sixth or"But listen!" protested Seaton, der was still very new and very ex"We don't want to advertise how perimental. "Can you make it selecdumb we are all over space!" tive?" he demanded. "I don't mind "Of course not. The thought telling our prospective friends we would be very carefully built and need help -- I don't want to holler highly selective. It would tell who it to our enemies." we are, what we have done, and The Dasorian's deep voice chuckwhat we intend and hope to do. It led. "It cannot be made selective," would state our abilities and -- by he said. "The message would of inference, and only to those we seek necessity be on suoh a carrier as to -- our lacks; and would invite all be receivable by any intelligent brain, qualified persons and entities to get Yet it can be hedged about witk in touch with us." such safeguards, limitations and Seaton looked abstracted for a compulsions that no one could or moment. He was thinking. The nowould pay attention to it except tion of sending out a beacon of those who possess at least some thought was probably a good one ability, overt or latent, to handle the -- had to be a good one -- after Fodan-Carfon band. Seaton whistled through his teeth. "Wow! And just how are you going to damp on such controls as those! I don't see how anything but magic -- sheer, unadulterated, pure black magic! -- could swing that load." "Precisely. Or, rather, imprecisely. It is unfortunate that your term 'magic' is so inexcusably loose and carries so many and so deplorable connotations and implications. Shall we design and build the thought we wish to send out?" T he thought was designed and was built; and was launched into space with the inconceivable, the utterly immeasurable velocity of its order of being. A red-haired stripper called Madlyn Mannis, strutting her stuff in Tampa in Peninsula Florida, felt it and almost got it; but, not being very strongly psychic, shrugged it off and went on about the business of removing the last sequin-bedecked trifle of her costume. And, as close to the dancer as plenteous baksheesh could arrange for, a husky, goodlooking young petrochemical engineer named Charles K. van der Gleiss felt a thrill like nothing he had ever felt before -- but ascribed it, naturally enough, to the fact that this was the first time he had ever seen Madlyn Mannis dance. And in Washington, D. C. one Doctor Stephanie de Marigny, a nuclear physicist, pricked up her ears, tightened the muscles of her scalp, and tried for two full minutes to think of something she ought to think of but couldn't Out past the Green System the message sped, and past the dust and the incandescent gas that had once been the noisome planet of the Fenachrone. Past worlds where amphibians roared and bellowed; past planets of methane ice where crystalline life brooded sluggishly on its destiny. In the same infinitesimal instant it reached and passed the Rim Worlds of our galaxy; touching many minds but really affecting none. Farther and farther out, with no decrease whatever in speed, it flew; past the inconceivably tiny, inconceivably fast-moving point that housed the seven greatest, most fearsome minds that the Macrocosmic All had ever spawned -- minds that, knowing all about that thought already, ignored it completely. Immensely farther out, it flashed through the galaxy in which was the solar system of Ray-See-Nee -- where, for the first time, it made solid contact with a mind in a body human to the limit of classification. Kay-Lee Barlo, confidential secretary of Department Head Bay-Lay Boyn, stiffened so suddenly that she stuttered into her microphone and had to erase three words from a tape -- and in that same instant her mother at home went into deep trance. And still farther out, in a galaxy lying almost on the universe's Arbitrary Rim, in the Realm of the Lhirdi, the message found a much larger group of receivers. While none of the practically enslaved Jelmi could do much of anything about that weirdly peculiar and inexplicabIP ly guarded thought, many of them were very much interested in it; particularly Valkyrie-like Sennloy, a native of the planet Allondax and the master biologist of all known space; ancient Tammon, the greatest genius of the entire Jelman race; and newlyweds Mergon and Luloy, the Mallidaxian savants. None of the monstrous Llurdi -- not even their most monstrous "director", Klazmon the Fifteenth -- being monstrous -- could receive the message in any part. And how well that was! For if those tremendously able aliens could have received that message, could have understood it and acted upon it, how vastly different the history of all humanity would have been! II Llurdi and Jelmi T he distance from Earth to the Realm of the Llurdi is such that it is worth while to take a moment to locate it in space. It has been known for a long time that solar systems occur in lenticular aggregations called galaxies; each galaxy consisting of one or systems. And for almost as long a time, since no definite or systematic arrangement of the galaxies could be demonstrated, the terms "Universe" and "Cosmic All" were interchangeable; each meaning the absolute totality of all matter and all space in existence anywhere and everywhere. There had been speculations, of course, that galaxies were arranged ia lenticular universes incomprehensibly vast in size, so that the term "Comic All" should be reserved for a plurality of universes and a hyperspace of more than three spatial dimensions. Seaton and Crane in the Skylark of Valeron proved that our galaxy, the Milky Way, lies In a lenticular universe by charting every galaxy in that universe. And they suggested to the various learned societies that the two celestial aggregates should be named, respectively, the Firs Galaxy and the First Universe. from Tellus and its First Galaxy, then, out near the Arbitrary Rim of the First Universe, there lay the Realm of the Llurdi. This Realm, which had existed for over seventy thousand Tellurian years, was made up of four hundred eighty-two planets in exactly half that many solar systems. Two planets in each populated system were necessary because the population of the Realm was composed of two entirely different forms of highly intelligent life. Of these two races the Jelmi -- the subject race, living practically in vassalage -- were strictly human beings and lived on strictly Tellus-Type worlds. The master race, the Llurdi, had originated upon the harsh and hostile planet Llurdiax -- Llurdiaxorb Five -- with its distant, wan, almostnever-seen sun and its incessant gales of frigid, ice-laden, ammoniaand methane-impregnated, forty-poundsto-the-square-inoh air. Like mankind, they wore clothing against the rigors of their environment. Unlike mankind, however, they wore clothes only for protection, and only when protection was actually necessary. Nor was Llurdiax harsh or forbidding -- to them. It was the best of all possible worlds. They would not colonize any planet that was not as nearly as possible like the mother world of their race. Llurdi, although they are erect, bifurcate, bi-laterally symmetrical, bi-sexual, mammalian, and have a large crania and six-digited hands each having two opposed thumbs, are not humanoids. Nor, despite their tremendous, insensitive, unfreezable wings, are they either birds or bats. Nor flying cats, although they have huge, vertically-slitted eyes and needle-sharp canine teeth that protrude well below and above their upper and lower lips. Also, they have immensely strong and highly versatile tails; but there is nothing simian about them or in their ancestry. The Realm was not exactly an empire. Nor was Llanzlan Klazmon the Fifteenth exactly an emperor. The title "Llanzlan" translates, as nearly as possible, into "Director"; and that was what Klazmon regarded himself as being. It is true that what he said, went; and that if he didn't like any existing law he expunged it from all existence. But that was exactly the way tilings should be. How else could optimum conditions be achieved and maintained in an ever-expanding, ever-changing, ever-rising economy? He ruled, he said and thoroughly believed, with complete reason and perfect fairness and strictly in accordance with the findings of the universe's largest and most competent computers as to what was for the best good of all. Wherefore everyone who did not agree with him was -- automatically, obviously, and unquestionably -- wrong. Llurdias, the capital city of the world Llurdiax and of the Realm, had a population of just over ten hundred square miles of ground. At its geometrical center towered the mile-square, half-mile-high officeresidence-palace (the Llurdan word "llanzlanate" has no Tellurian equivalent) of Llanzlan Klazmon the Fifteenth of the Realm of the Llurdi. And in that building's fifth sub-basement, in Hall Prime of Computation, Klazmon and his Board of Advisors were hard at work. T hat vast room, the first receptor of all the reports of the Realm, was three-quarters full of receivers, recorders, analyzers -- bewilderingly complex instrumentation of all kinds. From most of these devices tapes were issuing -- tapes that, en route to semi-permanent storage, were being monitored by specialists in the hundreds of different fields of the Llurdan-Jelmi economy. Klazmon the Fifteenth and his Board, seated at a long conference table in hard-upholstered "chairs" shaped to fit the Llurdan anatomy, were paying no attention to routine affairs. "I have called this meeting," the IP ruler said, "to decide what oan be done to alleviate an intolerable situation. As you all know, we live in what could be called symbiosis with the Jelmi; who are so unstable, so illogical, so bird-brained generally that they would destroy themselves in a century were it not for our gentle but firm insistence that they conduct themselves in all matters for their own best good. This very instability of their illogical minds, however, enables them to arrive occasionally at valid conclusions from insufficient data; a thing that no logical mind can do. These conclusions -- they are intuitions, really -- account for practically all the advancement we Llurdi have made and explain why we have put up with the Jelmi -- yes, cherished them -- so long." He paused, contemplating the justice of the arrangement he had just described. It did not occur to him that it could in anyway be described as "wrong." He went on: "What most of you do not know is that intuitions of any large worth have become less and less frequent, decade by decade, over the last few centuries. It was twelve years ago that the Jelm Jarxon elucidated the 'Jarxon' band of the sixth order, and no worth-while intuition has been achieved since that time. Beeloy, has your more rigorous analysis revealed any new fact of interest?" A young female stood up, preened the short fur back of her left ear with the tip of her tail, and said, "No, sir. Logic can not be applied to illogic. Statistical analysis is still the only possible tool and it cannot be made to apply to the point in question, since it is incapable of certainty and since the genius-type mind occurs in only one out of found a very high probability, however -- point nine nine nine plus -- that the techniques set. up by our ancestors are wrong. In breeding for contentment by destroying the discontented we are very probably breeding out the very characteristics we wish to encourage." "Thank you, Beeloy. That finding was not unanticipated. Kalton, your report on Project University, please." "Yes, sir." An old male, so old that his fur was almost white, stood up. "Four hundred males and the same number of females, the most intelligent and most capable Jelmi alive, were selected and were brought here to the Llanzlanate. They were put into quarters that were J elmtype in every respect, even to gravity. They were given every inducement and every facility to work-study and to breed. "First, as to work-study. They have done practically nothing except waste time. They seem to devote their every effort to what they call 'escape by means of alreadywell-known constructions of the fifth and sixth orders -- all of which are of course promptly negated. See for yourselves what these insanely illogical mancontents are doing and know for yourselves that, in its present form, Project University is a failure as far as producing intuitions is concerned." Kalton picked up a fist-sized inIt strument between the thumbs of his left hand and a tri-di "tank" appeared on the table's top, in plain sight of every member of the Board. Then, as he began to finger controls, a three-dimensional scene in true color appeared in the tank; a smoothlyflowing, ever-shifting scene that moved from room to room and from place to place as the point of view traversed the vast volume of the prison. I t did not look like a prison. The apartments, of which there were as many as the Jelmi wanted, were furnished as luxuriously as the various occupants desired; with furniture and equipment every item of which had been selected by each occupant himself or herself. There were wonderful rugs and hangings; masterpieces of painting and of sculpture; triumphs of design in fireplaces and tables and chairs and couches. Each room or suite could be set up for individual control of gravity, temperature, pressure, and humidity. Any imaginable item of food or drink was available on fifteen seconds' notice at any hour of the day or night. In the magnificent laboratories every known or conceivable piece of apparatus could be had for the asking; the memory banks of the library would furnish in seconds any item of information that had been stored in any one of them during all seventy thousand years of the Realm's existence. And there were fully-equipped game and exercise rooms, ranging in size from tiny card-rooms up to a full-sized football field, to suit every Jelman need or desire for play or for exercise. But not one of the hundreds of Jelmi observed -- each one a perfect specimen physically, as was plainly revealed by the complete absence of clothing -- appreciated any one of these advantages! Most of the laboratories were vacant and dark. The few scientists who were apparently at work were not doing anything that made sense. The library was not in use a't all; the Jelmi who were reading anything were reading works of purely Jelman authorship -- mostly love stories, murder mysteries, and science fiction. Many Jelmi seemed to be busy but their activities were as pointless as cutting out paper dolls. "The pale, frail, practically hairless, repulsive, incomplete, illogical, and insane animals refuse steadfastly to cooperate with us on any level." Any Earthman so frustrated would have snarled the sentence, but the Llurd merely stated it as a fact. "You can all see for yourselves that as far as productive work is... but hold!" The viewpoint stopped moving and focussed sharply on a young man and a young woman who, bending over a table, were working on two lengths of smooth yellow material that looked something like Grand Banks oilskin and something like varnished cambric. "Mergon and Luloy of planet Mallidax." Kalton said into the microphone. "What are you doing? Whv are you so far away from your own laboratories?" Mergon straightened up and glared at what he thought was the point of origin of the voice. "If it's any of IF your business, funnyface, which k isn't," he said savagely, "I'm building a shortlong whatsit, and Luloy has nothing to do with k. When I get k done I'm personally going to tear your left leg off and beat you to  death with the bloody end of it" "You see?" Kalton dispassionately  addressed the other members of the K Board "That reaction is typical."  He manipulated controls and both i Jelmi leaped to their feet, with all four hands pressed to their buttocks. , The fact that Luloy was a woman -- j scarcely more than a girl, in fact -- was of no consequence at all to Kalton. Even Llurdan sex meant very little to the Llurdi. Jelman sex meant J nothing whatever. # "Nerve-whip," Kalton explained  to his fellows. He dropped his controller into his lap and the tri-di tank j vanished. "Nothing serious -- only j slightly painful and producing only a little ecchymosis and extravasation. Neither of those two beasts, l  however, will be at all comfortable  until they get back where they be#. long. Now, to oontinue my report:  "So much for failure to work' i study. Failure-refusal to breed,  while not possible of such simple and easy demonstration, is no less actual, effective, and determined. A purely d emotional, non-logical, and ridicuI lous factor they call 'love' seems to  be involved, as does their incompre( hensibly exaggerated, inexplicable  craving for "liberty or 'freedom'." The Llanslar said thoughtfully, cannot possibly affect the results of artificial insemination?" "It seems to, sir. Definitely. There W' jpqgpl  vi x m I  I  k some non-physical and non-logical, but nevertheless powerful, operator involved. My assistants and I liave not been able to develop any techniques that result in any except the most ephemeral pregnancies." "You apparently wish to comment, Velloy?" Klazmon asked. "I certainly do!" a middle-aged female snapped, giving one tautlyoutstretched wing a resounding whack with her tail. "Of course they haven't! As Prime Sociologist I said five years ago and I repeat now that no mind of the quality of those of the Jelmi here in the llanzlanate can be coerced by any such gross physical means. Kalton talks of them and thinks of them as animals -- meaning lower animals. I said five years ago and still say that they are not. Their minds, while unstable and completely illogical and in many instances unsane to the point of insanity, are nevertheless minds of tremendous power. I told this Board five years ago that the only way to make that project work -- to cause selected Jelmi to produce either ideas or young or both -- was to give the selectees a perfect illusion of complete freedom, and I recommended that course of action. Since I could not prove my statement mathematically, my recommendation was rejected. While I still cannot prove that statement, it is still my considered opinion that it is true; and I now repeat both statement and recommendation. I will keep on repeating them at every opportunity as long as this Board wastes time by not accepting them. I remind you that you have already wasted -- lost -- over five years." "Your statement becomes mom probable year by year," the Llanzp Ian admitted. "Kalton, have yon anything more to say?" "Very little. Only that, since Project University has admittedly failed, we should of course adopt -- " Kalton was silenced in mid-sentence by a terrific explosion, which was followed by a rumbling crash as half of one wall of the Hall coir lapsed inward. A volume of Jelman air rushed in, enveloping a purposeful company of Jelmi in yellow coveralls and wearing gas-masks. Some of these invaders were shooting pistols; some wern using or throwing knives; but all wera covering and protecting eight Jelmi who were launching bombs at one great installation of sixth-order gear -- the computer complex that was the very nerve center of the entire Realm. For the Jelmi -- who, as has bee said, were human to the last decimal of classification -- had been working on fifthand sixth-order devices pur ly as a blind; their real effort had been on first-order effects so old that their use had been all but forgotten. T he Jelman plan was simple: Thirty men and thirty women would destroy the central complex of the computer system of the entire Realm. Then, if possible, the survivors o i the sixty would join their fellows in taking over an already-selected Llurdan scout cruiser and taking off at max. It was quite probable that many or even most of the attacking sixty would die. k was distinctly possible that they all would. All sixty, howtheir lives for that particular bank of sixth-order apparatus, in order that seven hundred forty other Jelmi could escape from Llurdiax and, before control could be re-established, be beyond their masters' reach. Theoretically, the first phase of the operation should have been successful; the Realm's nerve-center should have been blown to unrecognizable bits. The Jelmi knew exactly what they were going to do, exactly how they were going to do it, and exactly how long it would take. They knew that they would have the advantage of complete surprise. There would be, they were sure, half a second or so of the paralysis of shock, followed by at least one second of utter confusion; which would give them plenty of time. They were sure it would be as though, during a full-formal session of the Supreme Court, a gang of hoodlums should blast down a wall and come leaping into the courtroom with Tommy-guns ablaze and with long knives flying and stabbing and slashing. Grave, stately, and thoughtful, the justices could not possibly react fast enough to save their lives or their records or whatever else it was that the gangsters were after. The Jelmi, however, had never seen any Llurd in emergency action; did not know or suspect how nearly instantaneous the Llurdan speed of reaotion was; did not realize that a perfectly logical mind can not be surprised by any happening, however unusual or however outrageous. Thus: Yelling, shooting, throwing, stabbing, slashing , the men and women of die Jelmi rushed into battle; to be met -- with no paralysis and no confusion and no loss of time whatever -- by buffeting wings, flailing tails, tearing teeth, and hard, highly skilled hands and fists and feet Many machine operators, as agile in the air as bats, met the bombs in midair and hurled them out into and along the corridor through the already-breached wall, where they exploded harmlessly. Harmlessly, that is, except for a considerable increase in the relatively unimportant structural damage already wrought. Two knives were buried to their hilts in the huge flying muscles of the Llanzlan's chest. His left wing hung useless, its bones shattered by bullets. So did his right arm. Nevertheless, he made it at speed to his console -- and the battle was over. Beams of force lashed out, immobilizing the human beings where they stood. Curtains of force closed in, pressing the Jelmi together into a tightly packed group. An impermeable membrane of force confined all the J elm an air and whatever Lhirdan atmosphere had been mixed with it. The Llanzlan, after glancing at his own wounds and at the corps of surgeons already ministering to his more seriously wounded fellows, resumed his place at the conference table. He said, "This meeting will resume. The places of those department heads who died will be taken by their first assistants. All department heads are hereby directed to listen, to note, and to act. Since Project University has failed, it is to be closed out immediately. All Jelmi -- I perceive that none of those present is dead, or even seriously wounded -- will be put aboard the ship in which they intended to leave Llurdiax. They will be given all the supplies, apparatus, and equipment that they care to requisition and will be allowed to take off for any destination they please." He glanced at the captured Jelmi, imprisoned in their force-bubble of atmosphere. To them it reeked of methane and halogens, but they stood proudly and coldly listening to what he said. He dismissed them from his mind and said. "A recess will now be taken o that those of us who are wounded may have our wounds dressed. After that we will consider in detail means of inducing the Jelmi to resume the producton of breakthroughs in science. " HI S ome hours later, far out in deep space, theex-Liurdan scout cruiser -- now named the Mallidax, after the most populous Jelman planet of the Realm -- bored savagely through the ether. Ift crew of late revolutionaries, still dazed by the fact that they were still alive, recuperated in their various ways. In one of the larger, more kixwious cabins Luloy of Mallidax lap prone on a three-quarter-size-bed, sobbing convulsively, uncontrottbly. Her left eye was swollen shut The left side of her face and moat of her naked body bore livid black and blue bruises -- bruises so brutally severe that the marks of Kalton's sense-whip punishment, incurred earlier for insubordination, were almost invisible. A dozen bandages showed white against the bronzed skin of her neck and shoulders and torso and arms and legs. "Oh, snap out of it, Lu, please l" Mergon ordered, almost bruskly. He was a burly youth with crew-cut straw-colored hair, and he, too, showed plenty of evidence of having been to the wars. He had even more bruises and bandages than she did. "Don't claim that you wanted to be a martyr any more than I did. And they can engrave it on a platinum plaque that I'm damned glad to get out of that fracas alive." Stopping her crying by main strength, the girl hauled herself up into a half-sitting position and glared at the man out of her one good eye. "You... you clod!" she stormed. "It isn't that at all! And you know it as well as I do. It's just that we... they... he... not a single one of them so much as... why, we might just as well have been merely that many mosquitoes -- midges -- worse, exactly that many perfectly "Exactly," he agreed, sourly, and her glare changed to a look almost of surprise. "That's precisely what we were. It's humiliating, yes. It's IF devastating and it's frustrating. Wa tried to hit the Lhirdi where k hurt, and they ignored us. Agreed. I don't like it a bit better than you do; but caterwauling and being sorry for yourself isn't going to help matters a -- " "Caterwauling! Being sorry for myself! If that's what you think, you can..." "Stop it, Lu!" he broke in sharply, "before I have to spank your fanny to a rosy blister !" She threw up her head m defiance; then what was almost a smile began to quirk at the corners of her battered mouth. "You can't, Merg," she said, much more quietly than she had said anything so far. "Look -- it's all red, green, blue, yellow, and black already. That last panel I bounced off of was no pillow, friend." "Llenderllon's favor, sweetheart!" Bending over, he kissed her gingerly, then drew a deep breath of relief. "You scared me like I don't know when I've been scared before," he admitted. "We need you too much -- and I love you too much -- to have you go off the deep end now. Especially now, when for the first time in our lives we're in position to do something." "Such as what?" Luloy's tone was more lifeless than skeptical. "How many of our whole race are worth saving, do you think? How many Jelmi of all our worlds can be made to believe that their present way of life is anything short of perfection?" "Very few, probably," Mergon conceded. "As of now. But -- " He paused, looking around their suaoundmgs. The spaceship, which had once been one of the Liurdia beet, might have a few surprises for them. It was a matter for debate whether the Llurdi might not have put concealed spy devices in the rooms. On balance, however, Mergon thought not The Llurdi operated on grander scales than that. He said, "Luky, listen. We tried to fight our way to freedom by attacking the Llurdi right where it hurts, in center of their power. We lost the battle. But we have what we were fighting for, don't we? Why do you think they let us go, perfectly free?" L uloy's eye brightened a little, but not too much. "That's plain enough. Since they couldn't make us produce either new theories or children in captivity, they're giving us what they say is complete freedom, so that we'll produce both. How stupid do they think we are? How stupid can they get? If we could have wrecked their long eyes, yes, we could have got away clean to a planet in some other galaxy, 'way out of their range; but now? If I know anything at all, it's that they'll hold a tracer beam -- so weak as to be practically indetectable, of course -- on us forever." "I think you're right," Mergon said, and paused. Luloy looked at him questioningly and he went on, "I'm sure you are, but I don't think it's us they are aiming at. They're probably taking the long view -- betting that, with a life-long illusion of freedom, we'll have children of our own free will." Luloy nodded thoughtfully. "And wt would," she said, definitely. "All j#f us would. For, after all, if we en this ship all die childless what chance is there that any other Jelmi will try it again for thousands of years? And our children would have a chance, even if we never have another." "True. But on the other hand, how uuay generations will it take for tilings now known to be facts to degenerate into myths? To be discredited completely, in spite of the solidcat records we can make as to the ruth and the danger?" Luloy started to gnaw her lip, but winced sharply and stopped the motion. "I see what you mean. Inevitable. But you don't seem very downcast about it, so you have an idea. Tell me, quick!" "Yes, but I'm just hatching it; I haven't mentioned it even to Tamnon yet, so I don't know whether it will work or not. At present a tixth-order break-through can't be hidden from even a very loose surveillance. Right?" By now Luloy's aches and pains were forgotten. Eyes bright, she aodded. "You're so right. Do you think one can be? Possibly? How?" "By finding a solar system some'where whose inhabitants know so much more than we do that the emanations of their sixth-order installations continuously or regularly at work will mask those of any fulltcale tests we want to make. There must be some such race, somewhere in this universe. The Llurdi charted this universe long ago -- they call it U-Prime -- and I requisitioned copies S# of all the tapes. Second: the Llurdi are all strictly logical. Right?" "That's right," the girl agreed. "Strictly. Insanely, almost, you might say." 'So my idea is to do something as illogical as possible. They think we'li head for a new planet of our own; either in this galaxy or one not too far away. So we won't. We'll drive at absolute max for the center of the universe, with the most sensitive feelers we have full 'out for very strong sixth-order emanations. En route, we'll use every iota of brain-power aboard this heap in developing some new band of the sixth, being mighty careful to use so little power that the ship's emanations will mask it. Having found the hidingplace we want, we'll tear into developing and building something, not only that the Llurdi haven't got, but a thing that by use of which we can bust Llanzlan Klazmon the Fifteenth loose from his wings and tail -- and through which he can't fight back. So, being absolutely -- stupidly -- logical about everything, what would His Supreme Omnipotence do about it?" Luloy thought in silence for a few seconds, then tried unsuccessfully to whistle through battered, swollen lips. "Oh, boy!" she exclaimed, delightedly. "Slug him with a thing like that -- demonstrate superiority -- and the battle is over. He'll concede us everything we want, full equality, independence, you name it, without a fight -- without even an argument!" Grinning, Mergon caught her arm And led her out of the room. IF Throughout the great hulk of the Llurd spaceship the other battered Jelmi veterans were beginning to stir. To each of them, Mergon explained his plan and from each came the lame response. "Oh, boy!" They began at once setting up their work plans. The first project was to find -- somewhere! -- a planet generating sufficient sixth-order forces to screen what they were going to do. In the great vastnesses of the Over-Universe there were many such planets. They could have chosen that which was inhabited by Norlaminian or Dasorian peoples. They could have chosen one of a score which were comparatively nearby. They, in fact, ultimately chose and set course for the third planet of a comparatively mall G-type star known to its people as Tellus, or Earth. They could have given many reaons why this particular planet had been selected. None of these reasons would have included the receipt of the brief pulse of telepathic communication which none of them, any longer, consciously remembered. A nd back on Llurdiax the Llanzlan followed the progress of the fleeing ship of Jelm rebels with calm perception. His great bat wings were already wending, even as the scars of the late assauK on his headquarters were already nearly repaired by a host of ervo-mechanisms. Deaf to the noise and commotion of the repairs, heedless of the healing wounds which any human would have devoted a month in bed to curing, the Lianzlan once again summoned his department heads and issued his pronouncement: "War, being purely destructive, is a product of unsanity. The Jelmi are, however, unsane; many of them are insane. Thus, if allowed to do so, they commit warfare at unpredictable times and for incomprehensible, indefensible, andor whimsical reasons. Nevertheless, since the techniques we have been employing have been proven ineffective and therefore wrong, they will now be changed. During the tenure of this directive no more Jelmi will be executed or castrated : in fact, a certain amount of unsane thinking will not merely be tolerated but encouraged, even though it lead to the unsanity termed 'war'. It should not, however, be permitted to exceed that quantity of 'war' which would result in the destruction of, let us say, three of their own planets. "This course will entail a risk that we, as the 'oppressors' of the Jelmi, will be attacked by them. The magnitude of this risk -- the probability of such an attack -- cannot be calculated with the data now available. Also, these data are rendered even lesa meaningful by the complete unpredictability of the actions of the group of Jelmi released from study here. "It is therefore directed that afl necessary steps be taken particularly in fifth and sixth-order devices, that no even theoretically possible attack on this planet wiH succeed. "This meeting will now adjourn." It did; and within fifteen minutes heavy construction began -- conatrucV tion that was to go on at a pace and on a scale and with an intensity of drive theretofore unknown throughout the Realm's long history. Whole worldlets were destroyed, scavenged for their minerals, their ores smelted in giant atomic space-borne foundries and cast and shaped into complex machines of offense and defense. Delicate networks of radiation surrounded every Jelm and Llurd world, ready to detect, trace, report and home on any artifact whatsoever which might approach them. Weapons capable of blasting moons out of orbit slipped into position in great latticework spheres of defensive emplacements. The Llurdi were preparing for anything. Llurdan computations were never wrong. Computers, however, even Llurdan computers, are not really smart -- they can't really think. Unlike the human brain, they can not arrive at valid conclusions from insufficient data. In fact, they don't even try to. They stop working and say -- in words or by printing or typing or by flashing a light or by ringnothing until they are fed additional information. Thus, while the Llanzlan and his mathematicians and logicians fed enough data into their machines to obtain valid conclusions, there were many facts that no Llurd then knew. And thus those conclusions, while valid, were woefully incomplete; they did not cover all of actuality by far. For, in actuality, there had already begun a chain of events that was to render those mighty fortresses precisely as efficaceous against one certain type of attack as that man) cubic miles of sheerest vacuum. IV Llurdi and Fenachrone T he type of attack which was about to challenge the Llurdi was from a source no civilized human would have believed still existed. If Richard Seaton, laboring at Earth's own defenses uncountable parsecs away, had been told of it, he would flatly have declared the story a lie. He ought to know, he would have said. That particular danger to the harmony of the worlds had long since been destroyed... and he was the man who had destroyed it! When the noisome planet of the Fenachrone was destroyed it was taken for granted that Ravindau and his faction of the Party of Postponement of Universal Conquest, who had fled from the planet just before its destruction, were the last surviving members of their monstrous race. When they in turn were destroyed it was assumed that no Fenachrone remained alive. That assumption was wrong. There was another faction of the Party of Postponement much larger than Ravindau's, much more secretive, and much better organized. Its leader, one Sleemet, while an extremely able scientist, had taken lifelong pains that neither his name nor his ability should become known IF Id any except a select few. He was as patriotic as was any other member of his race; he believed as implickly as did any other that the Penachrone should and one day would rule not only this one universe, but the entire Cosmic All. However, be believed, and as firmly, that The Day should not be set until the probability of success of the project should begin to approach unity as a limit. According to Sleemet's exceedingly rigorous analysis, the time at which success would become virtually certain would not arrive for at least three hundred Fenachronian years. From the day of Fenor's accession to the throne Sleemet had been grimly certain that this Emperor Fenor -- headstrong, basically ignorant, and inordinately prideful even for an absolute monarch of the Fenachrone -- would set The Day during his own reign; centuries before its proper time. Therefore, for over fifty years, Sleemet had been preparing for exactly the eventuality that came about, and: Therefore, after listening to only a few phrases of the ultimatum given to Emperor Fenor by Sacner Carfon of Dasor, speaking for the Overlord Seaton and his Forces of Universal Peace, Sleemet sent out his signal, and: Therefore, even before Ravindau's forces began to board their single vessel Sleemet's fleet of seventeen tuperdreadnoughts was out in deep apace, blasting at full-emergency fifth-order cosmic-energy drive away from the planet so surely doomed. Surely doomed? Yes. Knowing vastly more about the sixth order than did any other of his race, he was the only one of his race who knew anything about the Overlord of the Central System; of who and what that Overlord was and of what that Overlord had done. He, Sleemet, did not want any part of Richard Ballinger Seaton. Not then or ever. Curse Fenor's abysmal stupidity! Since a whole new Fenachrone planet would now have to be developed, the Conquest could not be begun for more than three hundred years! While Sleemet knew much more about the sixth order than Ravindau did, he did not have the sixth-order drive and it took him and his scientists and engineers several months to develop and to perfect it. Thus their fleet was still inside the First Galaxy when they finally changed drives and began really to travel -- on a course that, since it was laid out to reach the most distant galaxies of the First Universe, would of necessity lie within two and a quarter hundreds of thousands of light-years of the galaxy in which the Realm of the Llurdi lay. A s has been intimated, the Llurdi were literal folk. When any llanzlan issued a directive he meant it literally, and it was always as literally carried out. Thus, when Llanzlan Klazmon ordered the construction of an installation of such a nature that "no even theoretically possible attack on this planet will succeed" he meant precisely that -- and that was precisely what was built. Nor, since the Llurdi had full command of the fourth and fifth orders, and some sixth-order apparatus as well, was the task overlong in the doing. The entire one-hundred-six-mile circumference of Llurdias and a wide annulus outside the city proper were filled with tremendous fortresses; each of which was armed and powered against any contingency to which Computer Prime -- almost half a cubic mile of miniaturization packed with the accumulated knowledges and happenings of some seventy thousand years -- could assign a probability greater than point zero zero zero one. Each of those fortresses covered five acres of ground; was low and flat. Each was built of super-hard, super-tough, super-refractory synthetic. Each had twenty-seven highrising, lightning-rodlike spikes of the same material. Fortress-shell and spikes through closely spaced cast-in tubes; and the entire periphery of each fortress, as well as dozens of interior relief-points, went deep into constantly water-soaked, heavily salted ground. Each fortress sprouted scores of antennae -- parabolic, box, fiat, and straight -- and scores of heavily insulated projectors of shapes to be defined only by a professional mathematician of solid geometry. And how the Llurdan detectors could now cover space! The Jelm Mergon, long before his abortive attempt to break jail, had developed a miniaturized monitor station that could detect, amplify, and retransmit cm an aimed tight beam any fifth-or sixth-order signal from and to a distance of many kiloparsecs. Hundreds of these "mergons" were already out in deep space. Now mergons were being manufactured in lots of a thousand, and in their thousands they were being hurled outward from Llurdiax, to cover -- by relays en cascade -- not only the Llurdan galaxy and a great deal of inter-galactic space, but also a good big chunk of inter-universal space as well. T he Fenachrone fleet bored on through inter-galactic space at its distance-devouring sixth-order pace. Its fourth-, fifth-, and sixth-order detector webs fanned out far -- "far" in the astronomical sense of the word -- ahead of it. They were set to detect, not only the most tenuous cloud of gas, but also any manifestation whatever upon any otf the known bands of any of those orders. Similar detectors reached out to an equal distance above and below and to the left of and to the right of the line of flight; so that the entire forward hemisphere was on continuous web of ultra-tenuous but ultra-sensitive detection. And, as that fleet approached a galaxy lying well to "starboard" -- the term was still in use aboard ship except for matters of record, since the direction of action of artificial gravity, whatever its actual direction, was always "down" -- two sets of detectors tripped at once. The squat and monstrous officer on watch reported this happening instantly, of course, to Sleemet himself; and of course Sleemet himself went instantly into action. He energized his flagship's immense fifth-order projector. IF Those detections could have only that the Fenachrone were in fact the one meaning. There was at least one ablest, most intelligent, and most solar system in that galaxy peopled powerful race of beings in existence, by entities advanced enough to work He would investigate, of course. Bitf with forces of at least the fifth orhe would do it cautiously, der. They should be destroyed -- The working projections of the that is, he corrected himself warily, Fenachrone were tight patterns of unless they were allied with or beforce mounted on tight beams. Thus, longed to that never-to-be-sufficientuntil they began to perform exterior ly-damned Overlord of the Central work, they were virtually indetecfcSystem of the First Galaxy... able except by direct interception But no, at this immense distance the and hard-driven specific taps. Sleeprobability of that was vanishingly met knew this to be a fact; whether small. the projection was on, above, or beThey might, however, have weaplow the target planet's surface and ons of the sixth. The fact that there even though that planet was so far were no such devices in operation at away that it would take light hunthe moment did not preclude that dreds of centuries to make the onepossibility. way trip. Very unlike the late unlamented The emanations of his vessels' Fenor he, First Scientist Sleemet, sixth-order cosmic-energy drive, was not stupidly and arrogantly sure however, were very distinctly something else. They could not be damped out or masked and they could be detected very easily by whoever or whatever it was that was out there... Yes, an exploration would not change matters at all... A s a matter of fact, the Fenachrone's Fleet's emanations had been detected a full two seconds since. A far-outpost mergon had picked it up and passed it along to a second, which in turn had relayed it inward to its Number Three, which Finally had delivered it to Computer Prime on incredibily distant Llurdiax. There, in Hall. Prime of Computation, a section "supervisor had flicked the switch that had transferred the unusual bit of information to his immediate superior, Head Supervisor Klarton -- who had at sight of it gone into a tizzy (for a Llurd) of worrying his left ear with the tip of his tail. He stared at the motionless bit of tape as though it were very apt indeed to bite him in the eye. What to do? Should he disturb the llanzlan with this or not? This was a nose-twitching borderline case if there ever was one. If he didn't, and it turned out to be something important, he'd get his tail singed -- he'd be reduced to section supervisor. Put if he did, and it didn't, he'd get exactly the same treatment... However, the thing, whatever it might be, was so terrifically far away... Yes, that was it! The smart thing to do would be to watch it for a few seconds -- determine exact distance, direction of flight, velocity, and wo forth -- before reporting to the Big Boss. That would protect him either way. W herefore Sleemet had time to launch an analsynth projection along the indicated line. He found a solar system containing two highly industrialized planets; one of which was cool, the other cold. One was peopled by those never-to-be-sufficiently-damned human beings; the other by a race of creatures even more monstrous and therefore even less entitled to exist. He studied those planets and their inhabitants quickly but thoroughly, and the more he studied them the more derisive and contemptuous he became. They had no warships, no fortresses either above or below ground, no missiles, even! Their every effort and all their energies were devoted to affairs of peace ! Therefore, every detail having been recorded, including the gibberish being broadcast and tightbeamed by various communications satellites, Sleemet pulled in his analsynth and sent out a full working projection. He had already located great stores of prepared power-uranium bars and blocks on both planets. Careless of detection now and working at his usual fantastic speed and with his usual perfect control, he built in seconds six tremendous pyramids upon each of the two doomed worlds -- pyramids of now one-hundred-percent-convertible superatomic explosive. He assembled twenty-four exceedingly complex, carefully aimed forces and put them on trip. Then, IF flaring baJefuUy into an almost opaque visiplate, he reached out without looking and rammed a plunger home -- and in an instant those two distant planets became two tremendous fireballs of hellishly intolerable. mostly invisible, energies. highly intelligent creatures -- eating, sleeping, loving, fighting, reading, thinking, working, playing -- died in that utterly cataclysmic rending of two entire worlds. P ractically all of them died not knowing even that they had been hurt. A few -- a very few -- watch officers in interplanetary spaceships observed one or the other of those frightful catastrophes in time to have an instant's warning of what was coming; but only three such officers, it became known later, had enough time to throw on their faster-than-light drives and thus outrun the ravening front of annihilation. Cosmically, however, the thing didn't amount to much. Its duration was very short indeed. While a little of each planet's substance was volatilized, practically all of it was scarcely more than melted. When equilibrium was restored they did not shine like little suns. They scarcely glowed. Hands quietly poised, Sleemet again paused in thought. The fact that he had murdered albother him at all. In fact, he did not think of the action at all, as murder he had, the thought would have been the Fenachrone equivalent of "pesticide". All space comprising the Cosmic All and every planet therein should and would belong to the Master Race; no competing race had any right whatever to live. Should he, or should he not, explore the lines of those communications beams and destroy the other planets of this group? He should not, he decided. He would have to slow down, perhaps even change course; and it was quite possible that he was still within range of the sixth-order stuff of that self-styled Overlord. Besides, this group of queerly mixed entities would keep. After he had found a really distant Fenatype planet and had developed it, he would come back here and finish this minor chore. But very shortly after making this decision Sleemet was given cause to know starkly that he had not investigated this civilization thoroughly enough by far; for his vessel was being assailed by forces of such in; credible magnitude that his instant taneously reactive outer screen was already radiating in the high violet! And, before he could do much more than put a hand to his construction panel, that outer screen began to show black spots of failure! I n Hall of Prime Computation, on Llurdiax, one entire panel of instrumentation went suddenly dead. The supervisor of that section flicked two testing switches, then scanned the last couple of inches of each of two tapes. Then he paused, for a moment stunned: knocked completely out of any Llurd's calm poise. Then, licking his lips, he spoke; apparently to empty air: "Llanzlan Klazmon, sir, Blaydaxorb Three and Blaydaxorb Five stopped reporting, simultaneously, eleven seconds ago. Orbiting pyrometers of both planets reported thermonuclear temperatures at the endpoints of their respective transmissions. End of report, sir." The supervisor did not elaborate. While he was appalled and terribly shocked -- he had never imagined such disasters possible -- it was not his job to comment or to deduce or to theorize. His business -- his only business -- was to report to a higher echelon the pertinent facts of any and all unusual events or conditions; the height of the echelon to which he reported being directly proportional to the unusualness and or magnitude of the event or condition. Since this event was unprecedented and of very great magnitude indeed, his report went straight to the top -- thus overtaking and passing the report of Head Supervision Klaron, which was not yet ready for delivery. Having reported the pertinent facts to the proper echelon, the section supervisor went calmly, almost unconcernedly, back to his job of supervising his section. He paid no more attention to the incident even when the llanzlan -- fully recovered now from his wounds -- who had been asleep in his penthouse apartment came into the Hall from the down-flyway. (Everyone rode a force-beam up, but came down on his own wings.) While Klazmon was not hurrying any more than usual, his usual technique was to drop a full half mile with folded wings before beginning to put on his brakes. Hence his tremendous wings and stabilizing surfaces sent blasts of cold, dense air throughout the whole end of the Hall as he slowed down for a high-G landing in his seat at his master-control console. Fingers, thumbs, and tail-tip flashed over the banked and tiered keyboards of that console; and, all around the periphery of Llurdias, that miles-wide girdle of mighty fortresses came instantly to life. A multi-layered umbrella of fullcoverage screens flashed into being over the whole city and Klazmon, engineering his fifth-order projector, sent his simulacrum of pure force out to see what had happened in or to the solar system of Blaydaxorb. He was now, to all intents and purposes, in two places at once. He could see, hear, feel, taste, and smell exactly as well with one self as with the other. He was, however, thoroughly accustomed to the peculiar sensations of having a complete personality; he could block out at will any perceptions of either self. And his immaterial self had two tremendous advantages over his material one. It could traverse incredibly immense distances in no measurable time; and, no matter where it went or what it encountered, his physical self would remain entirely unaffected. In a mere flick of time, then, Klazmon was in the solar system of Blaydaxorb. The sun itself was unchanged, but in orbits three and five, IF where the two inhabited planets had been, there were two still-wildly-disturbed masses of liquids and gases. He threw out a light, fast detector web, which located the marauding Fenachrone fleet in less than a second. Then, returning most of his attention to his console, he assembled seventeen exceedingly complex forces and hurled them, one at each vessel of the invading fleet. Actually, Klazmon was little if any more affected than was Sleemet the Fenachrone about either that utterly frightful loss of life as such or the loss of those two planets as such. The Realm was big enough so that the total destruction of those two planets -- of any two planets except of course Llurdiax itself -- was unimportant to the economy of the Realm as a whole. No; what burned the llanzlan up -- made it mandatory that that fleet and the entire race whose people manned it should, after thorough study, be wiped completely out -- was the brazenness, the uncivilized and illogical savagery, the incredible effrontery of this completely intolerable insult to the realm of die Llurdi and to imperial Klazmon its llanzlan. Klazmon knew of only one race who made a habit of performing such atrocities; such wanton, illogical, insane offenses against all sense and all reason : those chlorine-breathing, amoeboid monstrosities inhabiting Galaxy DW-#-LU. Those creatures, however, as far as any Llurd had ever learned, had always confined their activities to their own galaxy. If, Klazmon thought grimly to himself, those insanely murderous amoeboids had decided to extend their operations into the Galaxy of the Llurdi, they would find such extension a very expensive one indeed. Wherefore, hunched now over a black-filtered visiplate, with slitted eyes narrow and cat-whiskers stiffly outthrust; with both hands manipulating high-ratio vernier knobs in infinitesimal arcs; Klazmon shoveled on the coal. V Combat! A s has been said, the Llurdi were a literal folk. Klazmon's directive had specified "... that no even theoretically possible attack on this planet will succeed." Hence that was precisely what had been built. No conceivable force or combination of forces, however applied and even at pointblank range, oould crack Llurdiax's utterly impenetrable shields. Nor was that all; for Llurdan engineers, as well as Llurdan philosophers, were thoroughly familiar with the concept that "The best defense is a powerful offense." Wherefore Llurdiax's offensive projectors were designed to smash down any theoretically possible threat originating anywhere within a distance that light would require one and threeto traverse. Under the thrustings and the stabbings, the twistings and the tearings, the wrenchings and the bludgeonings of those frightful fields of force, seventeen sets of Fenachrone defenve screens -- outer, intermediate, and inner -- went successively upward ' through the visible spectrum, through the ultra-violet, and into the black of failure; baring the individual vessel's last lines of defense, the wallshields themselves. Then Klazmon increased the power, gouging and raving at those ultra-stubborn defenses until those defenses were just barely holding; at which point he relaxed a little, read his verniers, leaned back in his bucket seat, and took stock. The marauding spaceships were tremendous things; cigar-shaped; flying in hollow-globe formation with one vessel -- the flagship, of course -- at the exact center; spaced so closely that their screens had overlapped -- overlapped in such fashion that unless and until that shell of force was broken no attack could be made upon that central ship. So far, so good. With the overwhelming superiority of ultimateplanetary over any at-al #-probable mobile installations he, Llanzlan Klazmon the Fifteenth, had smashed that shell completely. He could, he was sure, destroy all those vessels as completely. But it would not do at all to destroy even one of them without examining both it and its crew. Klazmon had to know the who and the what and the wherefore and the how and the why. Therefore, leaving all of his attacking beams exactly as they were. Klazmon assembled another gigantic beam -- the entire output of one Llurdiaxian fortress -- and hurled it against the tail-section of the flagship. Wall-shield and tail-section vanished in a few manoseconds of time; and not only the tail-section, but also a few hundreds of yards of the flagship's prodigious length as well, became a furiously raging fireball; a sphere of violence incredible. Klazmon drove his projection forward then, through the now unresisting steel wall and into the control room; where it was met by blasts of force from the hand-weapons of the Fenachrone officers. This demonstration, however, lasted for only a second or two. Then those officers, knowing what it was that was standing there so unconcernedly, abandoned their physical assault and attacked the invading projection with the full power of the huge, black, flame-shot wells of hypnotic force that were their eyes. When the mental attack also failed they merely stood there; glaring a hatred that was actually tangible. K dazmon immobilized each one of the officers individually with pencils of force and began to study them intensively. While much shorter and thicker and wider and immensely stronger than the Jelmi Of the Realm, they were definitely Jelmoid in every important respect... yes, the two races had certainly had a common ancestry, and not too far back. Also, their thinking and conduct were precisely as was to be expected of any Jelman or Jelmoid race that had been allowed to develop in its unsane and illogical way for many thousands of years without the many benefits of Llurdan control! IF They would of course have thought-exchange gear; any race of their evident advancement must have... ah, yes; over there. Now -- which of these wights would be the admiral? That one wearing the multiplex scanner would be the pilot; that one facing the banks of dials and gages would be the prime engineer; those six panels had to be battle panels, so those six monsters had to be gunnery officers... ah! That one there -- off by himself; seated (in spite of the fact that with their short, blocky legs no Fenachrone had any need, ever, to sit) at a desk that was practically a throne; facing no gadgetry and wearing consciously an aura of power and authority -- that one would be the one Klazmon wanted. Klazmon's projection flashed up to the motionlessly straining admiral. The helmets of the "mechanical educator" snapped onto the Llurd's quietly studious head and onto the head with the contemptuously sneering face -- the head of First Scientist Fleet Admiral Sleemet of the Fenachrone. That face, however, lost its sneer instantly, for Sleemet -- even more overweeningly and brutally and vaingloriously prideful now than were the lower echelons of his race -- had never imagined the possibility of the existence of such a mind as this monstrous invader had. Klazmon's mind, the product of seventy thousand years of coldly logical evolution, tore ruthlessly into the mind of the Fenachrone. It bored into and twisted at that straining mind's hard-held blocks; it battered and shattered them; it knocked them down flat. Then Klazmon, omnivorous scholar that he was, set about transferring to his own brain practically everything that the Fenachrone had eyer learned. Klazmon learned, as Richard Seaton had learned previously, that all Fenachron having authority and responsibility were meticulous record-keepers. He learned what had happened to the civilization of the Fenachrone and to its world, and who had done it and how; he learned that each and every captain knew exactly the same and had exactly the same records as did First Scientist Fleet Admiral Sleemet himself; he learned that each vessel, alone by itself, was thoroughly capable of recreating the entire Fenachrone civilization and culture. A few of the many other thousands of things that Klazmon learned were: That there were many Jelman and Jelmoid -- human and humanoid, that is -- races living in what they called the First Galaxy. That all these races were alike in destructiveness, belligerence to the point of war-lust, savagery, implacability, vengefulness, intolerance, and frightfulness generally. Not one of them (by Klazmon's light!) had any redeeming features or qualities whatever. That all these races must be destroyed if any worthwhile civilization were ever to thrive and spread. There was no word in any language of the Realm of the Llurdi corresponding even remotely to "genocide". If there had been, Klazmon would have regarded it as an etymol ogival curiosity. All those surviving Fenachrone would have to die: no such race as that had any right whatever to live. Before being destroyed, however, they would have to be studied with Llurdan thoroughness; and any and all worthwhile ideas and devices and other artifacts should be and would be incorporated into the LlurdanJelman way of life. One vessel would be enough, however, to preserve temporarily for the purpose of study. In fact, what was left of the flagship would be enough. The now-vanished tail-section had contained nothing new to Llurdan science, the encyclopedic records were intact, and the flagship's personnel -- males and females, adults and adolescents and children and babies -- were alive and well. W herefore sixteen sets of multiplex projectors doubled their drain of power from Llurdias' mighty defensive girdle, and all the Fenachrone aboard sixteen superdreadooughts died in situ, wherever they happened to be, as those sixteen vessels became tiny, sunlets. And the llanzlan issued orders: #) The bulk of the Fenachrone flagship was to be brought in to the Uanzlanate at full sixth-order drive. #) A test section of the llanzlanate was to be converted at once to a completely authentic Fenachrone environment. #) Every possible precaution was to be taken that no Fenachrone suffered any ill effects on the way, during transfer to their new quarters, or while in their new quarters. Dropping the Fenachrone flagship and its personnel from his mind, Klazmon immersed himself in thought. He had learned much. There was much more of menace than he had supposed, in many galaxies other than Galaxy DW-#-LU... especially that so-called First Galaxy... and particularly the Green System or Central System of that galaxy? The green-skinned Norlaminians -- how of them? And how of that system's overlord,  Seaton of Tellus? That one was, very evidently, a Jelm... and, even after making all due allowance for Sleemet's bias, he was of a completely uncontrolled and therefore extremely dangerous type. And as, evidently, his was a mind of exceeding power, he could very well be a very dangerous and quite immediate threat. The mergons must be wider-spread even than originally planned and they must be on the lookout for this Overlord Seaton. In fact, he might be worth interviewing personally. It might be well worth while, some of these years, to take some time off and go to that distant galaxy, purposely to make that Jelm Seaton's acquaintance... Shrugging his shoulders and shaking both wings, Klazmon cut off his projection and called another meeting of his Board of Advisors. He briefed them on what had happened; then went on: "We must protect all our planets in the same way and to the same extent that this planet Llurdiax is protected now: a course of action now IF necessary because of these many Jelman and Jelmoid races that have been developing for untold millenia m their unsane and illogical ways, with no semblance of or attempt at either guidance or control. "Second: any force of any such race that attacks us will be destroyed before it or they can do us any harm. "Third: the manufacture and distribution of mergons will continue indefinitely at the present rate. "Fourth: No chance or casual vessel or fleet traversing any part of the vast volume of space to be covered by our mergons is to be destroyed, or even hailed, until I myself decide what action, if any, is to be taken." So saying, the Llanzlan Klazmon dismissed his advisors. His great wings fanned idly as he contemplated what he had done. He was well pleased with it He had, he reflected, scratching his head contentedly with the tip of his tail, provided for every possible contingency. Whatever this Jelm, or Jelmlike creature, named Seaton might be or do, he would pose no real threat to the llanzlante. Of that Klazmon was one hundred per cent sure... And wrong!  VI Of Disembodied Intelligences W e have now seen how the ripple of thought that began with the conference between Seaton and his advisors from the Green System had spread throughout all of recorded space, and how it had affected the lives and destinies of countless millions of persons who had never heard of him. Yet a few threads remain to be drawn into our net. And one of these threads represents the strangest entities Seaton had encountered, ever... as well as the most deadly. To understand what these entities are like, it is necessary to look back to their beginnings. These are most remote, both in apace and in time. In a solar system ao distant from that of Sol as to be forever unknowable to any one of Earth, and at a time an inconceivably vast number of millenia in the past, there once existed a lusty and fertile Tellus-type planet named Maryears mankind evolved on Marghol and thrived as usual. And finally, also as usual and according to the scheduled fate of all created material things, the planet Marghol grew old. Whether or not a Tellus-Type planet ordinarily becomes unfit to support human life before its sun goes nova is not surely known. Nor does it matter very much; for, long before either event occurs, the human race involved has developed a faster-than-light drive and has at its disposal dozens or hundreds of Earth-like .planets upon which even subhuman life has not yet developed. The. planet Marghol, however, while following the usual pattern in general, developed a specific thing that was, as far as is known, unique throughout all the reaches of total apace and throughout all time up to the present On Marghol, during many, many had continued to exist a small, tightly-inbred, self-perpetuating cult of thinkers -- of men and women who devoted their every effort and their total power to thought. They themselves did not know what freak of mind or quirk of physical environment made the ultimate outcome possible; but after those the perpetually imbreeding group grew stronger and stronger mentally and weaker and weaker physically, the seven survivors of the group succeeded finally in liberating their minds -- minds perfectly intact and perfectly functioning -- from the gross and perishable flesh of their physical bodies. Then, able to travel at the unmeasurable speed of thought and with all future time in which to work, they set out to learn everything there was to know. They would learn, they declared, not only all about space and time and zero and infinity and animals and people and life and death, but also anything and everything and everything else comprising or having anything to do with the totality of existence that is the Cosmic All. This quest for knowledge has been going on, through universe after universe and through dimension after dimension, for a stretch of time that, given as a number in Tellurian years, would be a number utterly incomprehensible to the human mind. For -- what perceptible or tangible difference is there, to the human mind, between a googolplex of seconds and IF the same number of centuries? And, since these free minds ordinarily kept track of time only by the lifecycles of suns, the period of time during which they had already traveled and studied could have been either shorter or longer than either of the two exact figures mentioned. Seven free minds had left the planet Marghol. They called themselves, in lieu of names, "One" to "Seven" in order of their liberation. For a brief time -- a mere cosmic of years -- there had been eight, since One had consented to dematerialize one applicant for immortality. The applicant Eight, however, sick and tired of eternal life, had committed suicide by smashing his sixth-order being out of existence against Richard Seaton's sixth-order screens. Now those seven free minds, accompanied by the free mind of Immortality Candidate Doctor Marc C. DuQuesne, were flying through ultra-deep space in a time-stasis capsule. This capsule, as has been said, was designed and powered to travel almost to infinity in both space and time. But, as the Norlaminians pointed out to Seaton, his basic assumptions were invalid. Nothing happened, however, for week after week. Then, so immensely far out in intergalactic space that even the vast bulk of a galaxy lying there would have been invisible even to Palomar's "Long Eye", the hurtling capsule struck a cloud of hydrogen gas. T hat gas was, by Earthly standards, a hard vacuum; but the capsule's velocity by that time was so immensely great that that cloud might just as well have been a mountain of solid rock. The capsule's directors tried, with all their prodigious might and speed, to avoid the obstruction, but even with fullest power they did not have time enough. Eight multi-ton power-bars of activated uranium flared practically instantaneously into ragingly incandescent gas; into molecular, atomic, and subatomic vapor and debris. A fireball brighter than a sun glared briefly; then nothing whatever was visible where that massive structure had been. And out of that sheer emptiness came a cold, clear thought: the thought of Doctor Marc C. DuQuesne. "One, are you familiar enough with this region of space to estimate at all dosely how long we were in that stasis of time and where we now are with reference to the First Galaxy?" Freemind One did not exactly answer the question. "What matters it?" he asked. If the thought of aa immortal and already incredibly old and incredibly knowledgeful mind can be said to show surprise, that, thought did. "It should be clear, even to you of infinitesimally short life, that any length of time expressible in any finite number of definite time periods is actually but a moment Also, the Cosmic All is vast indeed; larger by many orders of magnitude than any that the boldest of your thinkers has as yet dared to imagine. "Whether or not space is infinite I do not know. Whether or not my life span will be infinite I do not know. I do not as yet completely understand infinity. I do know, however, that both infinite time and infinite space are requisite for the acquisition of infinite knowledge, which is my goal; wherefore I am well content. You have no valid reason whatever for wishing to return to your Earth. Instead, you should be as eager as I am to explore and to study the as yet unknown." "I have unfinished business there." DuQuesne's thought was icy cold. "I'm going back there whether you do or not." "To kill beings who have at best but an instant to live? To rule an ultra-microscopic speck of cosmic dust? A speck whose fleeting existence is of but infinitesimal importance to the Great Scheme of Things? Are you still infantile enough, despite your recent transformation, to regard as valid such indefensible reasons as those?" "They're valid enough to me. And you'd have to go back, too, I should think. Or isn't it still true that science demands the dematerialization of the whole Skylark party?" "Truth is variable," One said. "Thus, while certain of our remarks were not true in the smaller aspect, each of them was designed to elicit a larger truth. They aided in the initiation of chains of events by observation of which I will be able to fit many more constituent parts of this you call the First Universe precisely into place in the Great Scheme. "Now as to you, DuQuesne. The probability was small that you were sufficiently advanced to become a worthy member of our group; but I decided to give you your chance and permitted Richard Seaton to do what he did. As a matter of fact I, not Seaton, did it. You have failed; and I now know that no member of your race can ever become a true your years you would not be thinking of knowledge at all, but merely of self-destruction. I erred, one-tenth of a cycle since, in admitting Freemind Eight to our study group; an entity who was then at approximately the same stage of development as you now are. I will not repeat that error. You will be rematerialized and will be allowed to do whatever you please." The mind of DuQuesne almost gasped. "Out here? Even if you recreate my ship I'd never get back!" "You should and will have precisely the same chance as before of living out your normal instant of life in normal fashion. To that end I will construct for you a vessel that will be the replica of your former one except in that it will have a sixthorder drive -- what your fellow-human Seaton called the 'Cosmic Energy' drive -- so that you will be able to make the journey in comparatively few of your days. I will instruct you in this drive and in certain other matter that will be required to implement what I have said. I will set your vessel's controls upon your home galaxy at the correct acceleration. "I compute... I construct." IF A nd faster by far than even an electronic eye could follow, a pattern of incredibly complex stresses formed in the empty other. Elemental particles, combining instantaneously, built practically instantaneously upward through electrons and protons and atoms and molecules beams and weaponry up to a operating superdreadnought -- and at the same time built the vastly more complex structure of the two hundred pounds or so of meat and so forth that were to enclothe Freemind DuQuesne -- and did the whole job in much less time than the blink of an eye. "... I instruct... It is done," and all seven freeminds vanished. And DuQuesne, seated at a thoroughly familiar controlboard and feeling normal gravity on the seat of his pants, stared at that board's instruments, for a moment stunned. According to those instruments the Aip was actually travelling at an acceleration of one hundred twentyeeven lights; its internal gravity was actually nine hundred eighty-one point zero six centimeters per second squared. He stared around the entire room, examining minutely each familiar object. Activating a visiplate, he canned the immense skyrover, inside and out, from stem to stem: finding that it was in fact, except for the stated improvements, an exact duplicate of the mighty ship of war he had formerly owned: which, he tQl thought, had been one of the most powerful battleships ever built by man. Then, and only then, did he examine the hands resting, quiescent but instantly ready, upon the board's flat, bare table. They were big tanned, powerful hands; with long, strong, tapering, highly competent fingers. They were his hands -- his own hands in every particular, clear down to the tiny scar on the side of his left index finger, where, years before, a bit of flying glass from an exploding flask had left its mark. Shaking his head, he got up and went to his private cabin, where he strode up to a full-length mirror. The man who stared back at him out of it was tall and powerfully built; with thick, slightly wavy hair of an intense, glossy black. The eyes, only a trifle lighter in shade, were surmounted by heavy black eyebrows growing together above his finely-chiseled aquiline beak of a nose. His saturnine face, while actually tanned, looked almost pale because of the blackness of the heavy beard always showing through, even after the closest possible shave. "He could rematerialize me perfectly -- and did," he said aloud to himself, "and the whole ship -- exactly!" Scowling in concentration, he went into his bathroom and stepped upon the platform of his weight-and-height Fafrbanks. Six feet and seven-eighths of an inch. Precisely right. Two hundred two and three-quarters pounds. Ditto. He examined the various items of equipment and of every-day use. There was his cutthroat razor, Osnomian-made of arenak -- vastly sharper than any Earthly razor could possibly be honed and so incredibly hard that it could shave generation after generation of men with no loss whatever of edge. Comb, brush, toothbrush, lotion -- inside the drawers and out -- every item was exactly as he had left it... clear down to the correctlyprinted, peculiarly-distorted tubes of tooth-paste and of shaving cream; each of which, when he picked it up, fitted perfectly into the grip of his left hand. "I'll... be... totally... damned," DuQuesne said then, aloud. vn DuQuesne and Klazmon T he Skylark of Valeron swung in orbit around the sun of Earth. She was much more of worldlet than a spaceship, being a perfect sphere over a thousand kilometers in diameter. She had to be big. She had to house, among other things, the onethousand-kilometers-diameter graduated circles of declination and of right ascension required to chart the making up any given universe of the Cosmic All. She was for the most part cold and dark. Even the master-control helmets, sprouting masses and mazes of thigh-thick-bundles of hair-thin silver wire, hung inactivated in the neutral gray, featureless master-control room. The giant computer, however -- the cubic mile of ultra-miniaturization that everyone called the "Brain" -- was still in operation; and in the worldlet's miles-wida chart-room, called the "tank", there still glowed the enormous lenticular aggregation of points of light that was the chart of the First Universe -- each tiny point of light representing a galaxy composed o # tems. A precisely coded thought impinged upon a receptor. A relay clicked, whereupon a neighboring instrument, noting the passage of current through its vitals, went busity but silently to work, and an entire panel of instrumentation came to life Switch after switch snapped home. Field after field of time-stasis collapsed. The planetoid's artificial sun resumed its shining; breezes began again to stir the leaves of trees and of shrubbery; insects resumed their flitting from bloom to once-morescented bloom. Worms resumed their gnawings and borings beneath the green velvet carpets that were the lawns. Brooks began again to flow; gurglingly. Birds took up their caroling and chirping and twittering precisely where they had left off so long before; and three houses -- there was a house now for Shiro and his bride of a month -- became comfortably warm and softly, invitingly livable. All that activity meant, of course, that the Seaton-Crane party would soon be coming aboard. They were in fact already on the way, in Skylark Two; the forty-foot globe which, made originally of Osnomian arenak and the only spaceship they owned, had been "flashed over" into ultra-refractory inoson and now served as Captain's gig, pinaace, dinghy, lifeboat, landing craft, and so forth -- whatever any of the party wanted her to do. There were many other craft aboard the Skylark of Valeron, of course, of various shapes and sizes; but Two had always been the Seatons' favorite "small boat". As Two approached the Valeron , directly in line with one of her huge main ports, Seaton slowed down to a dawdling crawl -- a mere handful of miles per second -- and thought into a helmet already on his head; and the massive gates of locks -- of a miles-long succession of locks Arough the immensely thick skin of Ae planetoid -- opened in front of flying Two and closed behind her. Clearing the last gate, Seaton put on a gee and a half of deceleration and brought the little flying sphere down to a soft and easy landing in her berth in the back yard of the Seatons' house. E ight people disembarked; five of whom were the three Seatons and Martin  and Margaret Crane. (Infant Lucile Crane rode joyously on her moAer's left hip.) Seventh was short, chunky, lightning-fast Shiro, whose place in these Skylark annals has not been small. Originally Crane's "man", he had long since become Crane's firm friend; and he was now as much of a Skylarker as was any of the others. Eighth was Lotus Blossom, Shiro's small, finely wrought, San Francisco-born and western-dressed bride, whom the others had met only that morning, just before leaving Earth. She looked like a living doll -- but appearances can be so deceiving! She was in fact one of Ae most proficient female experts in unarmed combat Aen alive. "Our house first, please, all of you," DoroAy said. "We'll eat before we do one single solitary thing else. I could eat Aat fabled missionary from the plains of Timbuctoo." Margaret laughed. "Hat and gown and hymnbook too," she finished. "Me, too, Dick." "Okay by me; I could toy with a couple of morsels myself," Seaton said, and pencils of force wafted Ae eight into Ae roomy kitchen of the house that was in almost every detail an exact duplicate of Ae Seatons' home on Earth. "You're Ae chief kitchen mechanic, RedTop; strut your stuff." Dorothy looked at and thought into the controller -- she no longer had to wear any of Ae limited-control headsets to operate them -- and a damask-clothed table, set for six, laden wiA a wide variety of food and equipped with six carved oak chairs and two high-chairs, came instantly into being in Ae middle of Ae room. The Nisei girl jumped violently; then smiled apologetically. "Shiro told me about such things, but... well, maybe I'll get used to them sometimes I hope." "Sure you will, Lotus," Seaton assured her. "It's pretty weird at first, but you get used to it fast." "I sincerely hope so," Lotus said, and eyed the six dinner places dubiously. She had Aought that she was thoroughly American, but she wasn't quite. Traditions are strong. With an IQ that a Heidelberg student might envy, part of the crew of the most powerful vehicle man had ever seen, full, educated and trained... it was evident that Shiro's dainty little bride was more than a little doubtful about sitting at that table. Until Dorothy took her by the hand and sat her down. "This is where I like my friends to sit," she announced. "Where I can see them." A flush dyed the porcelain-like perfection of Lotus's skin. "I thank you, Mrs. -- " "Friends, remember?" Seaton broke in "Call her Dot. Now let's eat!" hereafter, they worked. It may be wondered, among those historians not familiar with the saga of the Skylarks, why so much consternation and trouble should come from so small an event as the probabilistic speculation of a single Norlaminian sage that one mere human body, lately cast into the energy forms of the disembodied intelligences, might soon return into the universe in a viable form. Such historians do not, of course, know Blackie DuQuesne. While Seaton, Crane and the others were .eating their meal, across distances to be measured in gjgaparwere in one way or another busy at work on projects central to their own central concern. Seaton and Crane were not idle. They were waiting for further information... and at the same time, refurbishing the inner man with food, with rest and with pleasant company; but an hour later, after dinner, after the table and ha appurtenances had vanished and the three couples were seated in the living room, more or less facing the fire, Seaton stoked up his battered black briar and Crane lighted one o l his specially made cigarettes. "Well?" Seaton demanded then. "Have you thunk up anything you think is worth two tinker's whoops in Hades?" Crane smiled ruefully. "Not more than one, I'd say -- if that many. Let's consider that thought or message that Carfon is sending out It will be received, he says, only by persons or entities who not only know more than we do about one or more specific things, but also are their knowledge with us. And to make the matter murkier, we have no idea either of what it is that we lack or of what it, whatever it is, is supposed to be able to do. Therefore Point One would be: how are they going to get in touch with us? By what you called magic?" Seaton did not answer at first, then only nodded. "Magic" was still a much less than real concept to him. He said, "If you say so -- but remember the Peruvian Indian medicine-men and the cinchona bark that just happened to be full of quinine. So, whatever you want to call it -- magic or extra-sensory perception or an unknown band of the sixth or what-have-you -- I'll bet my last shirt it'll be bio. And whoever pitches it at us will be good enough at it to know that they can IF hit us with it, so all we have to do about that is wait for it to happen. However, what I'm mostly interested in right now is nothing that far out, but what we know that a reincarnated Blackie DuQuesne could and probably would do." "Such as?" "The first thing he'll do, for all the tea in China, will be to design and set up some gadget or gizmo or technique to kill me with. Certainly me, and probably you, and quite possibly all of us." Dorothy and Margaret both gasped; but Crane nodded and said, "Check. I check you to your proverbial nineteen decimals. Also, and quite possibly along with that operation, an all-out attempt to reconquer Earth. He wouldn't set out to destroy Earth, at this time, at least... would he, do you think?" Seaton thought for seconds, then said, "My best guess would be no. He wants to boss it, not wipe it out. However, there are a few other things that might come..." "Wait up, presh!" Dorothy snapped. "Those two will hold us for a while; especially the first one. I wish to go on record at this point to the effect that I want my husband alive , not dead." Seaton grinned. "You and me both, pet," he said. "I'm in favor of it. Definitely. However, as long as I stay inside the Valeron here he doesn't stand the chance of a snowflake in you-knowwhere of getting at me..." How wrong Seaton was! "... so the second point is the one that's really of over-riding importance. The rub is that we can't make even a wild guess at when he' going to get loose... He could be building his ship right now... so. Engineer Martin Crane, what's your thought as to defending Earth; as adequately as possible but in the shortest possible time?" C rane inhaled -- slowly -- a deep lungful of smoke, exhaled it even more slowly, and stubbed out the butt. "That's a tall order, Dick," he said, finally, "but I don't think it's hopeless. Since we know DuQuesne's exact line of departure, we know at least approximately the line of his return. As a first-approximation idea we should, I think, cover that line thoroughly with hair-triggered automation. We should occupy the fourth and the fifth completely; thus taking care of everything we know that he knows... but as for the sixth..." Crane paused in thought. "Yeah," Seaton agreed. "That sixth order's an entirely different breed of cats. If a pistol -- a question with a capital Q. About all we can do on it, I'd say, is cover everything we know of it and then set up supersensitive analsynths coupled to all the automatic constructors and such-like gizmos we can dream up -- with as big a gaggle of ground-and-lofty dreamers as we can round up. The Norlaminians, certainly; and Sacner Carfon for sure. If what he and Drasnik pulled off wasn't magic it certainly was a remarkably reasonable facsimile thereof. All six of us, of course, and... "But what can you possibly want of us?" Shiro asked, and Dorothy said, "That goes double for Peggy and me, Dick. Of what good could we two possibly be, thinking about such stuff as that?" Seaton flushed. " 'Scuse, please; my error. I switched thinking without announcing the switch. I do know, though, that our minds all work differently -- especially Shiro's and double-especially Lotus's -- and that when you don't have the faintest glimmering of what you're getting into you don't know what you're going to have to have to cope with it." He grinned. "If you can untangle that, I mean," he said. "I think so," said Crane, unruffled; he had had long practice in following Seaton's lightning leaps past syntax. "And you think that this will enable us to deal with DuQuesne?" "It'll have to," Seaton said positively. "One thing we know, something has to. He's not going to send us a polite message asking to be friends -- he's going to hit with all he's got. So," he finished, "let's hop to it. The Norlaminian observers' reports are piling up on the tapes right now. And we'd all better keep our eyes peeled -- as well as all the rest of our senses and instruments! -- for Doctor Marc C. Blackie DuQuesne!" A nd DuQuesne, so immensely far out in intergalactic space, at control board and computer, explored for ten solid hours the vastnesses of his new knowledge. Then he donned a thought-helmet and thought himsdf up a snack; after eating which -- scarcely tasting any part of it -- he put in another ten solid hours of work. Then, leaning back in his form-fitting seat, he immersed himself in thought -- and, being corporeal, no longer a pattern of pure force, went sound asleep. He woke up a couple of hours later; stiff, groggy, and ravenous. He thought himself up a supper of steak and mushrooms, hashed browns, spinach, coffee, and apple pie a la" mode. He ate it -- with zest, this time -- then sought his long-overdue bed. In the morning, after a shower and a shave and a breakfast of crisp bacon and over-easy eggs, toast and butter and marmalade, and four cups of strong, black coffee, he sat down at his board and again went deep into thought. This time, he thought in words and sentences, the better to nail down his conclusions. "One said I'd have precisely the same chance as before of living out my normal lifetime. Before what? Before the dematerialization or before Seaton got all that extra stuff? Since he gave me sixth order drive, offense, defense, and communications, he could have -- probably did -- put me on a basis of equality with Seaton as of now. Would he have given me any more than that?" DuQuesne paused and worked for ten busy minutes at computer and control board again. What he learned was in the form of curves and quantities, not words; he did not attempt to speak them aloud, but sat staring into space. IF Then, satisfied that the probabilities were adequate to base a plan on, he spoke out loud again: "No. Why should he give me everything that Seaton's got? He didn't owe me anything." To Blackie DuQuesne that was not a rueful complaint but a statement of fact. He went on. "Assume we both now have a relatively small part of the spectrum of the sixth-order forces, if I keep using this drive -- Ouch! What the living hell was thatl " DuQuesne leaped to his feet. "That" had been a sixth-order probe, at the touch of which his vessel's every course of defensive screen had flared into action. D uQuesne was not shaken, no. But he was surprised, and he didn't like to be surprised. There should have been no probes out here! The probe had been cut off almost instantaneously; but "almost" instantaneously is not quite zero time, and sixth-order forces operate at the speed of thought. Hence, in that not-quite-zero instant of time during which the intruding mind had been in contact with his own, DuQuesne learned a little. The creature was undoubtedly highly intelligent -- and, as undoubtedly, unhuman to the point of monstrosity... and DuQuesne had no doubt whatever in his own mind that the alien would think the same of any Tellurian. DuQuesne studied his board and aw, much to his surprise, that only one instrument showed any drain at all above maintenance level, and that one was a mammeter -- the needle of which was steady on the scale at a reading of one point three seven milsl He was not being attacked at all -- merely being observed -- and by an observation system that was using practically no power at all! Donning a helmet, so as to be able himself to operafe at the speed of thought, DuQuesne began -- very skittishly and very gingerly indeed -- to soften down his spheres and zones and shells and solid fields of defensive force. He softened and softened them down; down to the point at which a working projection could come through and work. And a working projection came through. No one of Marc C. DuQuesne's acquaintances, friend or enemy, had ever said that he was any part of either a weakling or a coward. The consensus was that he was harder than the ultra-refractory hubs of hell itself. Nevertheless, when the simulacrum of Llanzlan Klazmon the Fifteenth of the Realm of the Llurdi came up to within three feet of him and waggled one gnarled forefinger at the helmets of a mechanical educator, even DuQuesne's burly spirit began to quail a little -- but he was strong enough and hard enough not to let any sign show. With every mind-block he owned set hard, DuQuesne donned a headset and handed its mate to his visitor. He engaged that monstrous alien mind to mind. Then, releasing his blocks, he sent the Llurdi a hard, cold, sharp, diamond-clear -- and lying! -- thought: "Yes? Who are you, pray, and what, to obtrude your uninvited presence upon me, Foalang Kassi a Doompf, the Highest Imperial of the Drailsen Quadrant?" This approach was, of course, the natural one for DuQuesne to make; he did not believe in giving away truth when lies might be so much cheaper -- and less dangerous. It was equally of course the worst possible approach to Klazmon: reenforcing as it did every unfavorable idea the Llurd had already formed from his lightning-fast preliminary once-over-lightly of the man and of the man's tremendous spaceship. Klazmon did not think back at DuQuesne directly. Instead, he thought to himself and, as DuQuesne knew, for the record; thoughts that the Earthman could read like print. To the Llurd, DuQuesne was a peculiarly and repulsively obnoxious monstrosity. Physically a Jelm, he belonged to a race of Jelmi that had never been subjected to any kind of logical, sensible, or even intelligent control. Klazmon then thought at DuQuesne; comparing him with Mergon and Luloy on the one hand and with Sleemet of the Fenachrone on the other -- and deciding that all three races were basically the same. The Llurd showed neither hatred nor detestation; he was merely contemptuous, intolerant, and utterly logical. "Like the few remaining Fenachrone and the rebel faction of our own Jelmi and the people you think of as the Chlorans, your race is, definitely, surplus population; a nuisance that must be and shall be abated. Where -- " Klazmon suddenly drove a thought -- "is the Drailsen Quadrant?" DuQuesne, however, was not to be caught napping. His blocks held. "You'll never know," he sneered. "Any task-force of yours that ever comes anywhere near us will not last long enough to energize a sixthorder communicator." "That's an idle boast," Klazmon stated thoughtfully. "It is true that you and your vessel are far out of range of any possible Llurdiaxian attacking beam. Even this projection of me is being relayed through four mergons. Nevertheless we can and we will find you easily when this becomes desirable. This point will be reached as soon as we have computed the most logical course to take in exterminating all such surplus races as yours." And Klazmon's projection vanished; and the helmet he had been wearing fell toward the floor. D uQuesne was shocked as he had never been shocked before; and when he learned from his analsynths just what the range of one of those incredible "mergons" was, he was starkly appalled. One thing was crystal-clear: He was up against some truly first-class opposition here. And it had just stated, calmly and definitely, that its intention was to exterminate him, Blackie DuQuesne. The master of lies had learned to assess the value of a truth very precisely. He knew this one to be #-karat, crystal-clear, pure quill. Whereupon Blackie DuQuesne turnIF ed to some very intensive thought indeed, compared with which his previous efforts might have been no more than a summer afternoon's reverie. We know now, of course, that Blackie DuQuesne lacked major elements of information, and that his constructions could not therefore be complete. They lacked Norlaminian rigor, or the total visualization of his late companions, the disembodied intellectuals. And they lacked information. DuQuesne knew nothing of Mergon and Luloy, now inward bound on Earth in a hideout orbit. He could not guess how his late visitor had ever heard of the Fenachrone. Nor knew he anything of that strange band of the sixth order to which Seaton referred, with more than half a worried frown, as "magic". In short, DuQuesne was attempting to reach the greatest conclusion of his life through less than perfect means, with only fragmentary facts to go on. Nevertheless, Blackie C. DuQuesne, as Seaton was wont to declare, was no slouch at figuring; and so he did in time come to a plan -- and also was perhaps the most witless! -- of his career. Lips curled into something much more sneer than grin, DuQuesne sat down at his construction board. He had come to the conclusion that what he needed was help, and he knew exactly where to go to get it His ship wasn't big enough by far to hold a sixth-order projection across any important distance... but he could build, in less than an hour, a sixth-order broadcaster. It wouldn't be selective. It would be enormously wasteful of power. But it would carry a signal across half a universe. Whereupon, in less than an hour, a signal began to pour out, into and through space: "DuQuesne calling Seaton! Reply on tight beam of the sixth. DuQuesne calling Seaton! Reply on tight beam of the sixth. DuQuesne calling Seaton..." 'Complete in the June Galaxyl New Short novel by the author of Watchbird, Journey for Joeans, etc. A hilarious science-fiction odyssey by Robert Shockley ' Also m the same great issue -- Columns and features by Willy Ley, Algis Budrys, R. S. Richardson, Donald H. Menzel June issue is on sale now -- get your copy today! IF  Novelet Simon says take one big step forward . Simon says -- diet I A s he was unaccustomed to being interrupted in the middle of a massage session, even by so exalted a personage as Base Commandant Henly, Nestil Lagotilom lifted his eight-foot reptilian form from the massage table, dismissed his masseur, and swore vigorously about bureaucrats. Then, glaring balefully at the Official Messenger, or Mercury, he told the emissary to tell Henly he'd report to his office in a few minutes. The Mercury snapped a smart salute and left. Lagotilom pulled on a faded gray Harvard sweater that was at least a thousand years old, a webbing belt with a long, dragging, red leather holster on it and a large gun in the holster, and a black beret, which he perched rakishly atop his basketball-sized cranium. He struck a pose before a mirror, corrected his belt's carriage, and left. Commandant Herbert Washington Henly had unusual tastes in offices. When he had been given command of the Keeler's World Star Naval Base, he converted the neat, conservative, sunlit office that had served two hundred former commandants into a red, uterine chamber encircled by a spiral corridor that led to a similar waiting room, done in blue. He liked it, but the base economists jumped on his desk immediately and raised hell about large sums on slips of pink paper. Heniy had told them all to go to the Naval Bank with their problems, figuring that the red tape they'd get entangled in there would keep them out of his hair for years. In the meantime, he had drawn on naval sums to fill the office with soft stuffed leather furniture built on alleged Hrillan designs and enough comfort-producing devices to make the office look like the site of the mad tea party. When his desk intercom buzzed he had to crawl over sundry pieces of ironmongery that his interior decorator had said were out of the way, hide his putter and golf balls, and struggle into his seat before he could answer it. The intercom's screen showed his young human secretary, Myra Corning, whose face was twisted into a sort of distasteful frightened expression. She opened her mouth as if to speak, cast her eyes at something beyond his field of vision, and spoke. "Ummm... Lieutenant Lagotilom is here, sir. Shall I send him in?" Heniy glanced at his appointment list, found Lagodlom's name, glanoed at the ivory dragon's tooth with the clock in it, and replied, "Yes. Send him in. And if he has his gun, check it for him. I know he hates to part from it, but it's regulations. Thanks." Heniy relaxed a few seconds, then glanced at the sphincter door of his office, which had opened. Lagotilom strode over to Henly's desk, saluted unenthusiastically, and sat down on an ashtray pedestal that looked like a dragon's paw. Heniy harumphed, and began. "Mr. Lagotilom, did the Mercury tell you why I had you brought down here?" "No, sir." "Ummm... okay." He riffled through a sheaf ot vellum papers clutched by a smiling varnished frog, and finally found the few he wanted. "Do you know what a iC A side from it being one of those code names the military is so fond of, I don't." "Well, it's sort of a mind transference device. Means Subelectronic Integrator for the Manipulation of Objects." "Sounds like a robot arm." "Does, doesn't it?" The commandant lit a cigarette and blew a few smoke rings into the ventilator before he went on. "Nothing so simple. I thought that's what it was at first, too. No, it does this. Someone puts a helmet on your head, and some soldier puts a similar one on his head, and the machine is turned on. Then your mind is duplicated in this soldier's brain, his mind goes dormant until the device is shut off. Your original mind remains the same, however, so you can do whatever you want while you're connected with the machine. The mind in tile soldier's body is, in essence, his own, born there, and is in no way dependent on your mind. But when your helmet is removed, the minds cease in the other heads. The overall effect is that of a whole squadron of Nestil Lagotiloms on the field. fighting with your tactical knowledge. Very clear?" "Like mud. Do I ever know what happens to those bodies?" "Yes. As soon as the machine is turned off, the memories gained revert to your original mind. I should think it's help in writing reports." "I should care. I never write my own reports anyway. But why pick me?" "That, my dear friend, is the classical question. 'Why me?' You are our best military strategist for any base in this whole damn star cluster. One point for you." The commandant motioned Lagotilom off his dragon's paw seat, threw the cigarette butt in, and continued. "And as a mutant, your mental pulsations should be far clearer and stronger than any nonmutant. Besides, you're simple." "I detest that," Lagotilom stated. "I knew you would. That's why I said it." A grin split the commandant's chubby red face, and he lit another cigarette. "Seriously, Nestil, you are. Granted, you do rack up in the supergenius bracket on IQ tests, but your mutant mind isn't too complex to be packed away into a Terran brain without a little room to spare. So it's your job to give this thing its field tests." "Umm...sir, this... this mental jammer I tested for the Roota campaign," Lagotilom suggested cautiously. "It is. I used a jammer myself after it passed its tests." "Well, the officials smothered this, but while I waa testing the thing, a Roota hit it with a magnetic blast, and it backfired. I was in a mental institution for three months, recovering from the mind erasure it gave me. Ever since then, I've been uneasy about testing machines that I'm not familiar with. And what happens if someone using my brain gets killed?" "Nothing, except that he's dead. You have a cessation of memory on his part when he gets killed. I doubt if that'll bother you any great deal. Now, I've picked out a world for you to test it on." "Gee, thanks," Lagotilom muttered leerily. Henly ignored the sarcasm, went on, "It's in the part of the Bird campaign that's in this cluster, and it's called Meglor's Hunk. It's a grassy, mountainous clod that cooled off ages ago and split itself with cracks. These cracks have since filled in with water, and are very deep, narrow seas. Big red sun, but it looks yellow through the atmosphere. Surface gravity, three quarters of a gee, pressure of air, # pounds per square inch. Natives are reptiloid, feathered and possessing four tentacles instead of arms. Size of a full-grown man." T hat meant four feet, and about # pounds. In the twenty third century, man had discovered the anti-evolution drugs, which kept him from changing his physical appearance, for the most part. However, he could still adapt to the worst that any planet could dish out, and his size changed. Over the following two billion years of human civilization, he had grown from six feet racial size IF to twelve feet, then down to two feet, up to eight, and finally to the present four feet. But since the peowho lived to be old enough to see this were rare, the only beings who ever noticed it were archeologists and historians. And enemies. "The Bird lines," Henly went on, "are nothing but a line of disjointed wattle huts, rotting tents and stone sheds all protected by those lousy Bird force shields that blow fuses every time they're turned on. All you have to do is go in and crack their lines, and take the planet. Got it?" "Vaguely." "Then read this. You leave tomorrow at #." He handed Lagotilom a slip of yellow paper, and fumbled in the frogs bowed arms for another thing. He drew out a buff envelope and handed it to Lagotilom. "Fighting plans. Don't open them till you reach Meglor's Hunk. Good luck." "Yes, sir. Will that be all?" "Yes, Nestil. Dismissed." As soon as Lagotilom was outside in the waiting room he tore open the envelope, read the top-secret plans, and threw them away. n. T he Lil Abner was an old ship, rotted by a hundred war's barof use. Her monocrystalline hull had long since ceased giving piezoelectric current, and even her pile was old. But she was dependable, and probably would remain so for another ten thousand years. Having once been a cargoship, she was only a collection of rooms on four decks wrapped about a giant, spherical cargo hold. The whole arrangement was wrapped in shielding and mounted on a set of antiquated engines and told to fly. Sometimes it wouldn't. This trip it carried # fighting men, # engineers, # crewmen, Lagotilom strode up the ship's ramp into the airlock, checked his papers with the purser, who stamped the ship's coat of arms on them, and went to his room. It was a fairly large suite, with good ventilation, antique furniture in excellent condition, and a viewscreen in one wall. Through this Lagotilom watched a straddle-crane come up to the ship bearing a huge, black stasis box between its spiderlike legs. The box was stamped with numerous warnings concerning the fragility of its contents. These were ignored; the box was treated like a wrecking mace. A few red-clad engineers stood nearby, watching with boredom on their faces. They had the silver S on their uniforms which identified they seemed not at all to care about their brainchild. It was dropped onto a conveyor belt without concern for its contents, and vanished from Lagotilom's sight. Somewhat later, the old motors whined like whipped dogs and the wavering tones of the pendulum drive sang. As the strain was let off its old bones, the ship creaked, changed from a flattened ball to a near oval, and a sound like molasses glugging from a jug added its charms to the cacophony. The ship IF lifted from the atmosphere in seconds, and vanished into the spacewrinkle of the pendulum drive. "Will Lieutenant Nestil Lagotilom please report to the machine shop in the cargo hold?" a female voice requested from a seascape on the wall. Lagotilom left and sauntered down two levels to the hold. A Mercury ushered him through a companionway into the hold. The hold was a huge room, almost a perfect sphere in shape, except for the large, flat planes that dotted its floor in no particular order. Gravity pointed away from the center of the sphere so that everything clung to the walls. About a hundred feet above the floor, a girder framework supported ropes, block-and-tackles, and tracks upon which ran small or large winch cranes. The opposite floor was clearly visible, despite the veils of misty smoke that drifted about the hold. The entire room, lit with vast clusters of blue and yellow lights, smelled of the acrid fumes of solder. Nearby, a blond human technician saw him and moved over his way. He held out his hand and flashed a grin. "Nestil Lagotilom? George Hapsburg, chief technician to that thing." He jerked his thumb at a complex device on one of the raised flat planes. It was a sparkling glass globe supported by a shiny metal base in which intricate machinery was exposed. In the globe were all manners of spark-gaps, fan-coils, solid state parts and other hardware, emphasized by thousands of gossamer blown glass parts. It was almost twenty feet in diameter. Along the globe's base were dozens of dashboards and screens, sparkling with lights and wavering lines. Atop the orb three glass globes reposed, antennae in each. As they moved around to the stairs that led to the platform's top two more items came into view; a stuffed red cushion and a black, spidery machine standing over it. Umm... What's that thing?" Lagotilom indicated the metal spider.  V started, but Lagotilom broke him off. "Lagotilom is actually my individual name. Nestil' s my surname. "Um... okay, Mr. Nestil. What you do is rest on this cushion with your head on this rest, and this helmet is attached to your head by probe drills and kept there by electrode spikes." "Which all means?" "It means we take this helmet," he tapped the glassy helmet hanging from the spider-device's belly, "and put it on your head. The tiny drill it's bristling will go directly into your brain and tap the necessary nerve centers. Then, in addition to being unremovable, you can get up and leave the machine any time you please." "You mean I have to be perforated so that thing can be attached to me?" "Yes. But it won't leave marks, is completely painless, and will come off as soon as it is necessary. Now sit back, please." Lagotilom sat back, and felt the helmet slide down onto his head. Hapsburg made a motion at a man controlling the spider, and there was a sudden buzzing and Lagotilom's head itched for an instant. Hapsburg pulled out thin plastic tubes and released a few wires, then atepped back to survey his work. "It's on now, Mr. Nestil. Now see that guy in the red tractor on the girder track across the room?" Lagotilom nodded. "Fine. He's got a helmet on. When we turn this thing on, you'll be in his head, his body. Try moving it. However, don't be surprised if it doesn't work." Hapsburg left no time for questions. He flipped a switch, and a flash of pain coruscated through Lagotilom's head. He was in a red tractor, and turned his head to look across the room. He saw his own body far across the room, sitting in an overstuffed red cushion, talking with Hapsburg. His vision promptly vanished. Hapsburg stood in front of him. "How you do feel, now. What did you see?" he asked. Lagotilom told him. "That's good. That's good," Hapshurg muttered as he peered at the control boards and at a thin pamphlet "You meet all the requirements with flying colors," he told Lagotilom. "Thafs nice. Take off the helmet now?"  Lagotilom tapped the morion with a claw. "Oh, no. I'm afraid we can't do that until the testing period's up, about a week from now." "Oh, fine. That's just grand. And all that time I have to go around with this thing clapped on my headbone?" He gave a little push, weak and ineffectual, at the 'Jinskullcap. Hapsburg sighed greatly. "Yes, sir. Oh, you won't notice it after the first few hours. We kept the decorations to a minimum, and just gave it a plating of superiron, so it should be quite a bit more resistant than your own skull. I know its weight won't bother you much longer. Okay?" "Yeah. I'll settle for it. What now?" "Well, seeing as you understand the machine, nothing. I imagine you can loaf the rest of the trip." "Okay. How far do you accompany this thing?" "Oh, I'll be on Meglor's Hunk to operate it." "Then why didn't you teach me to run it?" "Something might go wrong. You'd need help, maybe, and that's where I come in. Lord knows there's a lot that might go wrong." "Such as?" "The thing gets too much power from your head. Then it sends out a big blast of power to all the minds in the locality. Every mind has a protection wall to defend it from psychic attack, but if in this burst of power, the machine puts a hole in this wall, it needs only a little bit more power than normal output to keep your mind in an unhelmeted head, too. This probably won't happen, though. Don't lose sleep over it." T he Li' l Abner came in to Meglor's Hunk on time, landing within an easy shot of the Bird lines. M IF However, none of the Birds did anytiring about it, since they could easily see the ship was untouchable, because of its force screens. But when the airlock was opened, and disembarking had begun, a Bird, aided by luck and a pressor beam, chunked a rock at a tank. It bounced harmlessly off, and would seem to be a rather minor incident, but it set the strategy experts to jabbering like a pack of monkeys. The Birds, who were utterly devoid of creative talent, were thought to be incapable of thinking up a stunt like that. They finally ended in agreeing that it had been an accident. No more rocks flew. Lagotilom sat on a heap of warbird saddles, idly watching the tents go up and tanks and guns moving to their positions. A line of fifty warbirds, huge # foot tall birds like prehistoric Diatrymas were brought out to rock pens, which were painted red. The birds were deathly afraid of this color unless they had their saddles on, and would not leap the pen. This measure kept them from panicking and flying the coop, and hot-footing it over the horizon. They all squawked and shuffled about uneasily. Several soldiers, armed with hypodermic needles like calking guns, moved about through the forest of treelike legs injecting them with a tranquilizer. Their war harnesses, big artifacts of leather straps, mail, velvet cushions and fighting tools, were resting on the grassy turf outside of the pen, and Lagotilom, perched atop the pile, was boredly watching the passing show, and occasionally flung a pebble at the Bird lines A few natives, in the meantime, had approached to watch the proceedings, and were allowed to stay because they avoided getting in the way. One stared long at Lagotilom, and then began a quiet conversation with a companion about some urgent subject. The crowd , of them pushed forward, and observed Lagotilom, who returned the interest half-heartedly, and a few stepped forward. One began speaking in a tongue unknown to Lagotilom, but his thoughts were clear. He thought that Lagotilom was some sort of a god, and had come to liberate the people of Boodai from the yoke of the Birds. While probably an unknown god, he showed little interest in mortal affairs, and was big enough to fit the qualifications. While Lagotilom was not a god, he reflected that they were right in that he was to free them from the Birds. It was quite late before the little tents were set up in the camp, and the Li'l Abner got back into the orbit in which she would remain for the duration of the fighting. But the operation was quite ahead of schedule, owing to the native beings having kept Lagotilom out of the way. All the inhabitants of three towns had turned out to see him. The Birds, surprisingly enough, had done nothing about the constant line of natives pouring into the Terran camp, even though it might have been a dangerous situation, with Terran and aborigine fighting Birds side by side. But, the Birds were totally uncreative, merely intelligent. All they had ever accomplished in the past was from sheer fecundity and a talent for plagarism. Later that night, Lagotilom walked over to the cook tent, where several engineers were trading jokes under the hanging electric lights, glowing a bland yellow. "Oh, Mr. Nestil." This from Hapsburg. "I was just considering getting you so we could discuss when to test the machine. As long as you're here, we might as well start." The others in the tent mumbled and nodded agreement. Hapsburg cleared his throat and began. all set to run. It needs a watch engineer. We'll draw cherries from my hat." He loaded some cherries into his hat, one of which was red. "Whoever gets the red cherry gets to row." Muffled agreement. A redheaded, blue-eyed engineer with a big nose, whose name was Logansport, got the booby prize. # "Mr. Nestil, this is Pete Logansport, the guy who's gonna run the "Hi," Lagotilom mumbled, his voice muffled by a banana he'd been munching. "What time do we start?" Hapsburg asked. He lit a cigarette while waiting for an answer. A balding technician who must have been close to ten thousand years old, who had been sitting near the refrigerator field supplied the answer. "#. That way we'll all be up early, and can get this damn job over with ail the quicker. I hate this planet!" "Any objections?" None. "Fine Then everybody show up at the Lagotilom left. As he walked to his own tent and left the warmth of the floodlamps, he felt a cool wind picking up. The Bird lines, three miles away, showed as a line of dim red lights. There were sounds in the Terran camp of men preparing for under a tent just visible to Lagotilom, and its tent's side flapswere as yet turned up, and lesser engineers were securing things inside. Lagotilom entered his tent, and turned on the heater and the fabric stiffener field that made the canvas invulnerable to attack. He wrapped an old hotel towel from Terra around his waist, after stripping, and sauntered over to the medical tent to procure a sleep needier and three sleep charges for it. He injected them into his rump and shoulder brains, and injected the third into his neck to work on his head-brain, which was protected by the helmet. Tre air began to smell wet, and they were running the side flaps Lagotilom caught a fleeting glance of the machine, yellow, red, blue and green lights flashing, and then nothing as the canvas covered it. He closed up his tent, hoping the medicine would allow no nightmares The dull rumbles of thunder shook the night, but gingerly. The grass bent before the cool, wet wind, and the thunder muttered again, much closer. IF in T he rain had kept up all night, accompanied by high winds and hail. Now, however, the wind was gone, and only a steady rain fell, drenching the yellowish grass. The two camps and the soldiers were out doing calisthenics. The Birds had their fires going, dull orange smudges smoldering in the distant gray, and were thinking the dull, dreary thoughts that dull, dreary races think on dull, dreary mornings -- if such mornings inspire them to thinking. Lagotilom had awakened from an uneventful slumber. He had not enjoyed a delicious meal of fermented banana and pineapple mash; and had taken his morning jolt of brominated Mars Whiskey, made by the Mars Whisky people especially for him, without event. This morning, though, he was far too frightened and apprehensive to get drunk. He reported # minutes no difference to anyone. The engineers were finishing up on the job that they said had been done the night before, and he loafed about inside for a full half-hour before anyone noticed him. It was Logansport who finally did. "Mornin', Mr. Nestil. Sit in this chair, huh?" "Okay." Lagotilom sat in a puff of velvet with the golden neural pickup strands in it, and leaned back. He saw an engineer across the room wearing the jewellike tiara of solid ceiver. A technician attached a wire to Lagotilom's helmet, Hapsburg flipped a switch, and Lagotilom waj in the scientist. Then he wasn't. a physician Lagotilom had never noticed spoke up. "Mr. Lagotilom..." he began, to be broken off by Hapsburg, who grumbled, "Nestil's his surname, Callot" "I'm sorry, Mr. Nestil: Um... Mr. Nestil, we've been watching you for the last ten minutes, and it's pretty plain that you're jerky and suggested some sort of sedative to Mr. Hapsburg. He agreed, seeing as we want top efficiency from the device... unlike that mental jammer you tested; I was there, incidentally." He looked into a box he had on a table, and withdrew a bottle of some black liquid that sloshed about and stained the glass inside. "With this in mind, I've selected a sedative for you. Like the shown desired effects." He sat in another of the puffs, and began fidgeting with a tiny teleportic injector. Lagotilom tensed, then relaxed instantly, calmed. "One effect. Prothalmine, the drug, seems to be a mind drug. It first effects the body, as the mold and vehicle for the mind. Then, after its effect on the body has died down, it works specifically on the mind. No problems there." He handled the bottle to Lagotilom, who looked at 'the inklike fluid inside. "What's it made from?" he asked. "Salivary glands of castrated bulls." "Go on." "Effect Two. It seems to relax the body for mind transfer. It'll smother any surprise at your new body, and permits efficiency. The drug is such that the transferred mind will obey only the orders planted in the body before the transfer." He waved a hand at the smoldering Bird fires. "In other words, if you were to occupy the body of a pheasant, you wouldn't be at all surprised and you would do what the vulture had been ordered, not your orders. Thank God that can't happen to you." He paused and looked at Lagotilom. "Get me?" "Sorta. Go on." "Three. There can be no countermanding the duplicated mind once the transfer is made. That means that there can be no interference from the enemy. See?" "Yes. How soon do we start? Judging from those ominous things you've been doing with that teleportic there, I figure that I already have the bullspit in me." The doctor grew slightly red. "I I want it over with too! We start as soon as the soldiers are in their positions. That's it, isn't it, George?" "Yeah. Get ready, Lagotilom. I'm almost done with the preliminaries." "Okay. How soon?" "Three minutes." T he rain' had abated somewhat, though a cold drizzle still clung to the air. The Birds had begun noticeably, as though they expected something big was coming off right under their noses and weren't out to miss the game. Already some of their gunners were trying unsucceatfully to pick their way through the Terran nets of defenses. Hapsburg sat down, and stared solemnly at Lagotilom, who looked back eve more solemnly, using his long, this face to achieve a remarkably bassethound effect. Hapsburg grinned. "Good luck, Mr. NestiL" "Good luck yourself. I'm not leaving..." The switch was throw, and a pulse of blue-white searing pain exploded in Lagofilom's head, and vanished. -- "the room. Dam you, Hapsburg. That hurt like hell." "It's on," replied Hapsburg, glancing up at a wall screen upon which # lights were arrayed in ranks. "Well, Mr. Nestil. All of you accounted for." "Great." Lagotilom looked at the screen, as the technicians left, and saw that the fighting had begun. Odd, he reflected, to know each spot of light on that screen is another you, and you're fighting this war im two thousandicate, without leaving the tent. The day dragged on, and became oppressively hot. Numerous small animals were skittering through all of since the mental broadcaster seemed to draw them. Lagotilom had to keep shooing them from beneath his feet, where they persisted in crawling, and erator. The Terrans had been making advances all day, and had driven the Birds back some # yards. About that time, Logansport left for the cook shack, leaving Lagotilom and his animal friends alone. Minutes IT later, a small group of natives entered the cavernous tent, and looked awestruck at the giant god with the crystal altar in the giant tent. A pair of them, pressed on by their comrades, went up to Lagotilom's feet and presented him with a big vat of some sticky stuff, colored a wicked yellow. Lagotilom sniffed it, and the poison detector sense in his nose told him it was safe. It didn't really smell bad, either. He ate a little. That was a mistake. Twenty minutes later he had a roaring headache. He began blundering about the looking through red-rimmed eyes at the cook tent, where the technicians and medics and camp janitors were drinking freely. He watched them without special interest for a few minutes, then struck out in the direction of the medical tent, seeking relief. After a wobbly five minutes afoot, he swayed into it and looked for the medic who wasn't there. Discovering this, he clambered feebly over the counter to wander among rows of medicine cabinets until he found one full of "Emergency Drugs For Lieutenant Lagotilom." He extracted a box of pain pills, and, ignoring the instructions, swallowed a handful. Seconds later, his head began to swim, and he felt as though he were expanding, becoming as vast as space. He blacked out. IV H is mind duplicated, as it expanded, and lodged in the brains of unhelmeted beings. It entered a technician... The headache was suddenly gone, to be replaced by a feeling over his entire body. He felt glorious, triumphal, reckless. He felt drunk. He was in the cook tent. His vision, though blurred, could discern his body weaving about unsteadily outside, as though in the throes of pain. He looked about the cook tent, and saw other technicians sitting up or standing in the same strained, semi-alert attitude he was in. A few clutched crystal goblets of a pale green liquor, and the balding # year elder was sitting up in a corner, brown, thousand-year-old Mars Whisky into his lap. He returned his attentions to his wavering form, now decided that he was in the body of one of the drunken technicians, or janitors or medics. At any rate, his original body needed help, and t properly administer that help he had to be sober. To be sober, he had to take a few Antibooz tablets, which were found in the medic tent. He took a wobbly step in that direction. And one by one, the others did, too. But the exertion was too great, and they all fell flat on their faces, stone cold drunk. His expanding mind also encountered other minds like his, but these were lodged firmly in place. They could not be budged. They were the Having been under moderate fire for the past half hour, Lagotilom could see through his peepscreen that the Birds had concentrated attacking the sham fort thrown up on the hillS# side a hundred yards in back of him. But now, they turned their fire on the most likely places for soldiers to be entrenched, therefore the places that they were. He peered through the dust that had risen and saw that a small contingent of Birds had drawn back, and still more were moving forward, protected by force screens and hurling small bombs in all good hiding places. There was one group moving down a gully toward him. He withdrew an implosion grenade from his weapons pouch, activated it, and threw it at the Birds once they were near enough. He watched with savage satisfaction as it turned them into supercompressed matter, along with a sizeable portion of the gully walls. Then he cleared the entrenchment lip and ran down the devastated gully, carefully skirting the red-hot area of the grenade blast. In a few minutes he would be in the Bird camp. T he minds that Lagotilom's free minds could not enter were ignored, and the free minds went on, till they found lodging. In Birds. But the free minds were weak, and slipped out halfway. Lagotilom peered over the adobe wall surrounding his tent, and watched the hollow between the Terran camp and his. It was almost impossible to see into the depression, owing to the dust that had risen. But he could see the pale-green flashes of the Terran implosion grenades which meant that his comrades were being stretched across the local landscape. He could hear the tinkling of the fracturing glass nerve disruptors thrown by his troops. For some reason, however, the disruptors didn't work; and the Terrans were fighting far too efficiently to make him happy. Lagotilom doubted that his troops could hold their ground much longer, and wished that he could command them more directly. He  felt capable of it, for his thoughts had suddenly cleared from murky gloom to crystal clarity. He went back to his fur hammock and lay in it. Toying idly with the black feathers on his left wing, he pulled out some red ones that were to him as a gray hair was to a Terran. He looked out the door again, and standing up, told himself that he was doing absolutely nothing by staying in the tent. He removed some small atomic grenades from a wooden crate, selected a few candies from a bowl resting on a table, and walked out to his pedacycle. Before entering it, he took a final look at the battlefield. The Terrans, advertising their sentiments concerning war, had put up a sign on their sham fort which said, "Birds, go to hell!" Lagotilom gunned the motor on his pedacycle, and progressed at a leisurely pace. By the time he reached the battlefield, he had noticed that his soldiers were all fighting in a new and very nasty manner. As he turned his pedacycle down a gully he reflected that it was as though he was doing all of the fighting himself. One mind, remained with his original body, pain wracked, at the Terran camp. IF ' . '  ' A 'Si'-fa.'i ', ' . T'rfV  ; r His headache having abated somewhat, Lagotilom inspected the camp with a clearer head. He shooed a few small animals from the tent, looked about for his technicians and the camp personal, and saw them on the cook tent floor, dead drunk. Damn fools, he thought, with a war going on they think their new toy is so goddam good they could get drunk. He glanced at the wall progress map, then, and saw something uncanny was going on. Only half of the Birds were at the fighting front, with the rest back of the line, doing something that seemed to be mechanical in nature. A few minutes later, Lagotilom saw that they were assembling the huge spring catapults that they always carried about with them but never used. When they were finished, they used them to lob concussion bombs over the lines, and in the terranean tsunami that followed, they advanced # yards. This strange, original tactic unnerved Lagotilom. He sat closer to the screen for the next few hours, maneuver on each side. He wondered. The Terran maneuvers he could account for, but the Birds, no. It was almost as though he were doing all their fight-controlling himself. A board the Li' l Abner , General Pruneface Duffey was fascinated. He felt anxiety such as # prior years of Bird fighting had never before given him. Never before had he heard of the stinking pheasants fighting like this; and that Lagotilom lizard was doing a beautiful job of controlling the Terraa troops. But being realistic, Duffey could see that the situation was getting serious. He waved his hand over a red globe, and his aide, Ensign Piet van Mieris, a smallish man with thinning blond hair and a nervous tic in either cheek, entered the room, to be waved to a settee. Duffey looked at him and spoke. "Watch that screen for a few minutes." "Um... Sir, I have been watching it in the other room. The Birds are doing pretty good." "Too damn good. Far too damn good." Duffey stood up, walked across his room, and aimed a vicious kick at a stuffed Bird propped up in a corner holding a handful of cigars and a tomahawk. He missed, took one of the cigars, lit it, and continued. "The Birds never fought this way before. I don't see why they should start now." Van Mieris looked gloomily at Duffey. "Well, they have to start someplace." "If I want philosophy, I'll ask for it," Duffey snarled. "Well, General Duffey, I don't see why they shouldn't fight well, now. What I'm about to tell you I have no substantial proof for, but it's what I heard, and it seems to fit in. Before I signed up as your aide, I was on the report staff of General Copeland in the Crotch, and I heard something about the Birds having captured a military computer on Tarrarree, when they were holding that world. Its parts are subspacial, and it operates on the same force that keeps time moving. IF It would occupy almost no space at all, so it could be lodged in each soldier's head, or, if it is as hard for the Birds to make as I suspect, it could be hidden anyplace on their base. Mind you, sir, I've no proof for this. Don't regard it as gospel truth." He sighed greatly and started to leave. Duffey stopped him. "Dutch, how long ago was this?" "About three months." "Then that must be what's going on down there. The Birds must have one of those military computers commanding them. Get the Whiz Kids up here. I want to build an anticomputer for that sort of thing." "But, sir..." Duffey waved the complaining van Miens on impatiently. "Hop to it, man. I want those crazy bastards here at once." Van Mieris sighed again, and groaned, "Yes, sir." Twenty minutes later, the Whiz Kids, or Starship Computorial Team and Emergency Weapons Modifiers shuffled in. They were six tall, bleaklooking men with a funeral air hovering about them. Duffey surveyed them with distaste, and said, "Did Dutch tell you what the Birds are using down below?" Nods and dull uh-huhs. "Fine. I want a machine built to knock out that kind of... of machine. How soon can you have it done?" A gaunt-faced man with shortcropped gray hair, dressed in an oilpaint-smeared smock, spoke up. "By morning, if we work all night." "Great! Get it done. And make sure it's readily portable." "Yes, sir." The cordon of engineers dragged out again, and Duffey almost made a sarcastic remark about rousing them from their coffins. E vidently they didn't work all night, for it was # before they brought their machine up to show Duffey. As they plodded in, Duffey saw, sitting on a stretcher, a blue-metal generator that fairly bristled with glass tubes. The oilpainted engineer, who in all probability was the one who was to test the machine, was a bit perkier. He struck the hull of the machine, which responded with a hollow clang. "This is our baby. Weighs three tons. On such short notice, it was as portable as we could get it. It'll have to do," he said. Pruneface asked. "Anything you need?" "There is. Yeah. An armored car. I want one of the larger ones with the star-drive in them. The little ones don't have enough of a power supply in them to run this thing. I want it to have an efficient force-field, too. I don't want the Birds shooting us down once they realize what it is we're up to." "You mean you gotta fly this thing all over hell's half acre to make it work?" Pruneface asked with angry insinuation in his voice. "Just to plant our seeds. We gotta know whether it'll work at all, first. That's the way we'll find out quick. Then we can land in the camp and run it from there? Say! Have you gotten any hints from camp as to where this thing may be hidden?" 'Not a one. In fact, we haven't heard from camp since early last night. Seems their radio went on the fritz." Well, it won't make much difference Call the carport. Tell 'em to get one ready. Okay, sir?" "Yeah." Duffey picked up his desk phone's receiver and listened to it click throatily before a nasal voice founded in his ear. "Yes?" it said. "Get me the armored car division." It clicked again. Duffey then said "I want car number ten for the Whiz Kids. I want a pilot and a copilot in it, too. Get it to port seven." The porcupine generator was loaded into the weapons hold, and the occupants of the little bottle-shaped spaceship entered it. Humming slightly, the armored car dropped away from the Li'l Abner , and plummeted to the yellow and purple planet below. Inside, the Whiz Kid thought about his machine. Then he two and two together, then, and hoped that his machine would not greatly it would. Then he took a wig of whisky. V O ne of the soldier Lagotiloms of Terra crept rapidly up a gully. Lagotilom found the gully quite a bit longer than he had first thought, and was considering jumping its sides and running across the surrounding land, when another wave from a concussion bomb surged in back of him, and an excited chatter began very close. Bird talk. Ah  this there was the soft hum ot a Bird staff car, progressing slowly down the gully. It was a flat disk mounted on two soda-straw legs, with a primitive gasoline motor in the back, a scrap of armor in the front, a gun, and a piece of black-feathered brass. Only the Sexed ones, the rich aristocracy of the Birds, had black feathers, and these were only found at established Bird bases. But one was riding a staff car down the gully. Lagotilom figured that it would be quite a feather in his cap if he were to capture this one. He hid in a wide crack in the gully floor, and threw a rope noose out to trap the leg of the staff car as it went by. As its hum grew louder, he wondered what the Bird inside was thinking, doing, observing. Lagotilom could see that the gully he was in led past the Terran lines, right to under the bluff that the Terran encampment rested upon. He increased the pedacycle's speed, and saw that the gully was longer than he had expected, probably due to both the dust and the concussion bombs, which made mirages that fooled one's distance-sense. The cycle ran over an area of arroyo floor that was a bit cracked, so Lagotilom slowed his pedacycle again, and saw the noose in front of a crevice, waiting. He gunned the motor, and turned the speed down to slow, resulting in steps of rather bone-crushing violence. A foot stepped into the crevice, a choked scream came from within, and Lagotilom felt proud of himself. His first Terran. IF Then he turned his attention to the Terran camp, and saw a reptilian figure peer from a tent, far off. He wondered what this figure was. The day had been hot and sunny. So hot, in fact, that Lagotilom had thought the very air to be turning yellow. Now, though, it was cooling clouds that had formed, the westering sun presented a dull, smudgy appearance. Occasionally, Lagotilom could hear rumbles of very distant thunder. A cool wind was blowing from the west, carrying cool air down from the distant blue-gray mountains. Lagotilom watched the dozing technicians, the battle chart, the sky its restless periods, and it hummed louder, its spark-gaps flashing with considerably more power. Another sound, coming from the sky, could be Lagotilom cast his eyes that way and saw a glint that he recognized as a Terran armored car encompassed by a force-field. It leveled off, and made a few passes above the battlefield, as if expectant of something that didn't seem to be happening. It dropped to a mile, and made a few more passes, swishing about as though a bit frustrated. Finally, it circled the camp, and landed a few hundred yards from the tents. A jeep with three people and a metal and glass porcupine slid from the transportation hold, and drew to a halt outside of Lagotilom's tent. A tall, cadaverous man jumped out, took a swig from a liquor bottle, and began moving dials and twisting knobs and punching studs on the machine in back. It glowed fitfully, sounded off like a flushing toilet, and did nothing else. One of the two men in the front seat, after watching a few seconds, said something softly. The tall man snorted, and, turning his attention to a small viewscreen clamped in the front seat, made modifications on the porcupine. It sputtered and quit. He raised a huge fist and hit it hard on its side, then, after calmtent, watching Lagotilom. "Lieutenant Lagotilom." He stated it, not asked it. "Yeah. I'm me. What?" "You been watching that cartoon up there?" He jerked a thumb at the wall battle screen. "Yeah. Lousy show. Whatever's got into those lousy bastards, anyway? Why are they fighting so good?" "Ah, we think it's some sorta time-spacial computer they captured at the Crotch on Tarrarree. The Pruneface told us it's doin' all their thinkin' for 'em, so we built that thing and hauled it down here and it went and broke down. You saw it do that... hey. What's wrong with that thing?" For the first time, he seemed to notice the computorial disruptin', had been composing an electronic symphony. "I dunno. I been wired to it all day, and all it gave me was a headache." "Oh. Where are its technicians ... where is everybody , for that matter?" "Drunk. In the cook tent." "Drunk?" "Yeah, drunk. Dead drunk. They got so confident about their toy they thought that it didn't need them any longer. So they went and fOt drunk. They flopped on the floor about noon, and they've been that way ever since." "I oughta leave them there." "You might as well. I doubt if you could rouse 'em, anyway." Later, after the machine had been repaired and taken to the front fines, Lagotilom saw the rolling gray clouds turn a sinister blackishgreen, lightning flashing out of them. Rain began plikking at the taut fabric of the tents, and with crackled loudly, and an unhealthy yellow glow pervaded the tent. As Lagotilom let the side flaps down, he saw the bullet-shaped jeep run up the ramp of the armored car, which extruded its psionic radio staff the next minute. It was immediately struck by lightning, and Lagotilom's head exploded. The L agotilom's mind grew larger ' than ' it had the first time creeping across the planet's surface struck many minds, including those of natives. Again, it slipped, leaving enough of the native's mind in the body to taint Lagotilom's mind. Lagotilom dropped his feathery aluminum pitchfork, and threw open the door to his small, hideskin barn. A cold wind blew the dried snakeweed hay about the barn. Leaving the barn, he shut the door with his lower tentacles, ruffled his plumage with bis feathered muscles, and shut out the cold rain that fell. In the direction of the town fields, he saw flashes of imploding imploder grenades in unison with concussion bombs. Beyond that was another glow, but red. It was the town burning. Lagotilom grimly damning both the Terrans and the Birds entered his stave and hide house. He took a drill-lance from the wall, put on a suit of bronze chain mail, and loaded his hand-pistol with drillheads. He was going to stop both the Terrans and the Birds. On the road, he met others who were going to the town for the same reason, and he joined them without a word. He thought about the Terrans, and wondered what they were doing. After the pedacyle had narrowly missed stepping on him, Lagotilom had crawled from the crevice, and saw that the staff car was going to be hard to catch. So, deciding against chasing it, he turned his attentions to the burning town, whose medieval walls stood black beneath leaping flames. He saw tiny figures moving along the top of the wall, and decided to join the fun. But he still wondered what the Bird in the staff car was doing. Lagotilom, only a mile distant from the Terran camp, knew he stuck out like a fishwife in a Parisian fashion show, but he hadn't IF drawn a single shot. In fact, with the exception of a single tent that seemed to be having a miniature storm of its own going on inside, there was no visible action anywhere in the camp. He muted his cycle's motor, and brought it to a slow sneak, and drove up the incline to the Terran base. He watched the instruments on his dashboard to warn of monkey-business detectors, but there were no such detectors. He moved cautiously up the slippery hill. He wondered what was going on inside that tent. Lagotilom watched the armored car a few minutes, but it showed no signs of life. Well, he thought, it would take care of itself. He left vilion, and saw a large thing approaching the camp from the hill's bottom. He was alarmed for an instant, then grinned as it slipped and went crashing down the hill, amid squawks of consternation. When were those Birds ever going to learn that pedacycles can't climb hills? He went on his way, but before he entered the medical tent, he looked at the dark hulk of the armored car, and wondered what had happened to the men within. Lagotilom's mind, in expanding, had caught the three men from the ship and lodged in them immediately. But they were unconscious. Then one stirred... Lagotilom regained consciousness with a spinning vision of a ship's control room. He looked at the ruined psiooic projector, with its now-dead horse brain lying on the floor amid shards of glass that was its former casing globe. He looked around the control room of the armored car and saw his pilot and copilot on the floor, woozily trying to regain their feet. He searched feverishly about for the first aid kit. Lagotilom's mind, in expanding, had caught the three men in the armored car, and it had also struck the psionic radio, which was trained upon the ship. In the instant before it burst and died, it cast his mind up... up... up to the LVl Abner where it found another place to lodge. There was no other personality in this brain... he took over completely... The phone on Norge Gearling's desk rang, and he brushed aside piles of colored papers, lifted the receiver and asked, "Yeah. Whoozis? Whatcha want?" An excited voice sounded in his ear, constantly dimming because its owner kept turning his head to look at something. "Mr. Gearling! That big psionic radio down in the communications room. It thinks it's Lagotilom! You better get down here, fast!" Gearling stared at the receiver as if it were a disease carrier. "You wanna repeat that, please?" he asked. "I said that big psionic radio in the communications room thinks it's Lagotilom! It's been sending complaints all over its screens for the last few minutes, but we just figured out what's wrong now. It keeps changing from red to gray and back again. I don't see why it should think it's Lagotilom. Lagotilom's down on the Hunk. Come on down and see for yourself!" Gearling could see that something had very definitely gone wrong, for the huge horse brain suspended in the giant glob of waxy, oily gum was changing colors very fast, and it did indeed hold to the opinion that ii was Lagotilom. In a very slow, plodding voice it inquired what in hell was going on. Then a few sensor units went into action, the voice cleared and became that of Lagotilom. "Gearling. I can see you in here. I'm supposed to be in soldier-type brains. I'm in a horse-type brain. What the hell went wrong?" "Lagotilom. Is that you?" Gearling shouted. "No It's not me. I'm the Centaur and I'm out to conquer the universe. Dammit! Of course I'm Lagotilom. What in hell am I doing here?" The voice held anger and fear, and had an urgency to it. Gearling was gesticulating to the communications engineers, who were scuttling about trying to keep the giant brain cool. He looked at the gleaming waxy chunk, suspended in a nest of wires and supported by a metal box and shouted. "Don't worry, Lagotilom. We'll get you out of there." As he shouted these words, he immediately realized how inadequate and ridiculous they sounded. Then he turned on his heel and ran up the ramp to the Whiz Kids' office, three levels up. At the peeling veneer counter he rang the little silver pushbell until one of the cadaverous men stirred from the perpetual backroom craps game. "What the hell do you want, Gearling?" he snarled. "What do you know about psionit radios? Especially the big one?" "Nothing. You're the chief communicator. You oughta be able to fix it." "Well, I can't. They never taught me one thing about anything but temporospacial radio." Gearling grabbed a wall phone, got the radio room, and asked for a straight connection to Lagotilom and the psionic radio. "Lagotilom. What's going on down there, on the Hunk?" "What do you want me to tel you?" "You got any idea what got you up here?" idea what it may be doing now, but when I saw it last, it was buzzing and sparking to beat the devil. "Why don't its technicians fix it?" "Cause they've been dead drunk since noon. Nobody down here but me and those three guys you sent down in the armored car. They haven't shown their faces since the storm started and their car got hit by lightning. At least, I don't think they've shown their faces." Gearling put his hand over the mouthpiece of the phone, and spoke to the Whiz Kid. "What do you "Precious little. Last night you told me all its technicians were down on the Hunk. What are they doing?" "Dead drunk, according to Lagotilom." IF "Dammit, GearHng. Cant you get something done? I have a feeling something bad is gonna happen down there and..." A sudden cream burst from the phone. Seconds later, it drifted up from the communications room. Then after a pause, the phone began babbling thoughts so disjointed as to be absolutely senseless. Gearling put the phone down. "Did you hear him?" he said. "Yes. But what happened?" the Whiz Kid asked. "I'd bank he nearly got struck by thing with all the excess energy that I don't like to think about. We have to go down." "In this storm? God, no. And we have to find out what happened first, too." The verdict came, minutes later, when the phone jangled coarsely. "Yes?" asked Gearling. "We've deciphered that babble. Get down here at once." The voice was tense. And Gearling wondered what was happening to Lagotilom. VI L agotilom's head was bursting. New starbursts of pain exploded inside his skull each time some lightning flashed. Besides, he was in the middle of what he had been assured would not happen. His mind was lost among hundreds of other minds, all pressing down on him, all babbling, all confused. He wished for unconsciousness, but it would not come -- all of those minds .   Gearling looked at the papers and grimaced. So that was it. The infalLagotilom's mind to everything that could accommodate it To top it off, it had obtained a jump from a psionic projector to fling his mind up to the ship's psionic radio. The booster brain was very dead, but it needed, the power to push a Lagotilom-mind to the ship. No more vided would keep it up there once contact had been made. Now it had been deciphered that Gearling had been right about the lightning. Some had jolted the machine so severely that Lagotilom and the ship's psionic radio had been confused with all the soldier brains' activities. And Birds and natives. Now one thing remained to be done. Deactivate the Terran soldier Lagotiloms... Lagotilom crouched in a squaremouthed culvert high on the city's wall shooting Birds as they passed by. The town was burning, and the horrible stench from burning leather was wafted his way. And he was weary, too. A few minutes before, a sudden wave of confusion had hit him, and while it wasn't as bad as before, he still couldn't keep his mind on urgent subjects. He thought about his friends, the Li' l Abner , and the Bird that he had left walking to the Terran camp... After his pedacycle had broken a leg in the slide down the muddy fS hill, Lagotilom had crept back up the side and had tried to enter the camp, but was nearly struck unconscious by a blast of sheer confusion. He backed away hastily, but it still lingered, and, combining with the cold and the wet, made him very miserable indeed. He sat in the rain, shivered, and cast longing glances at the warmth of the burning town, five miles away. Then he wondered how the natives were taking all of this; what they were doing... Lagotilom was in tow. He had killed two Terrans and ten Birds. The little rune-painted stave and hide houses of the people of Boodai, his people, were almost all in flames, despite the rain. Lit by the orange fires of the conflagration, Birds could be seen fighting Boodai and Terrans on the thick city walls. The fallen and dead of all three races fell on the sharpened wooden spikes that thrust up inside the walls, and spattered tri-colored blood into the gutters and streets, where it mixed in veils with water and was swept down drains or collected in puddles. He tripped over a loose barrelhoop, and at the same time, felt the hot kiss of a knife sever a tentacle. He twisted and sent a spiral drill-charge through the neck of the gray Bird that stood over him with a huge butcher cleaver. He scuttled to his feet, and ran across the bloody town square to the shelter in the sub-city passages. If he stayed out here missing an arm, he might lose his life. Best to run to live another day. As he ran into the passages, he felt the confusion that had struck him five minutes earlier pass. He wondered what could have caused it, and why it seemed so sinister, despite its weakness... Lagotilom had screamed himself hoarse from the pain in his head, from the minds, from the deafening pounding sounds from the tent aimlessly, pounding on whatever he ran into, hoping it to be the tiny air tubes that permeated his brain to provide air-cooled thoughts were spouting hot blood. He assumed the foetal position on the floor which ran with mud, and fell backward in his thoughts... until he did not even notice Gearling control box, and shut it off. But he was aware of the effect, for he collapsed happily, feeling, just before the deathlike plunge, that it was good to be alone again. O that is my report. No more Birds on Meglor's Hunk, and no more Terrans. The natives just want to be left to their own devices, without meddling from space. And that machine..." Lagotilom let the sentence trail into meaningful oblivion. "Well, Nestil, at least you did test it. I'll give you (JMit for that. And you got your promotion." Lagotilom looked at his colonel's Comet on his sweater's collar, and said, "Yes, I did. I'm damn happy the New Inventions Bureau knows IP it's just a pipe dream at present." Suddenly Lagotilom sat erect, as if he had just struck an elementary truth. "Sir, there's been something buzzing around the back of my mind the last few days. I know what Subelectronic Integrator for the Manipulation of Objects, by Nestil. Says?" "Beg pardon?" "Simon Says. It's a game. When I was on Terra my first week the Education Administration put me into a first grade class with # other first graders of as many different races. They thought I was of normal IQ. There was this game called Simon Says. The kid'd mimic the teacher as long as she said Simon Says Do This or That. But if she said do this or that without the Simon Says, and the kid mimicked her anyways, he was out of the game. I always thought this was pretty damn unfair, so I rigged the game. This was just like one of those rigged games. You couldn't lose; ergo, the machine did work; but you couldn't win. And everyone did what they were supposed to do. Lagotilom chuckled immoderately. "This whole damn demonstration, all of it, was just another game of Simon Says." And he left the office, chuckling thoroughly... Two of your favorite science-fiction writers join In great new collaboration team in next montfrt I by A. E. Van Vogt and James H. Schmitz Plus! by Lester del Rey by Edward E. Smith, Ph.D. -- and many more in the July If. Don't miss it! W #  IF  Novelette The way to space involves great sacrifice and daring -- but not necessarily by the astronautslra I J ames M. Hey den, head of the Advanced Research Projects Division of the Continental Multitechnikon Corporation, blew his breath out exasperatedly, sat back in the expensive aggregation of pads and springs that served as his desk chair, and read the handwritten note again: Jim -- Pat tells me we are now so far ahead of the international competition, defensewise, that no large new government orders can be expected. Introduction of any new and revolutionary gimcrack at this time would, therefore, be most unwelcome and inexpedient. So put the new gimmicks on the back burner, and get going full Hast on that Kiddie Kit Science Series. We'll expect rapid progress, as we want the first three Kits on the market at least ninety days before Christmas. Naturally the Moon Krawler should be one of these first Kits. Any suggestions you may have for utilizing our now top heavy staff of technicians and engineers would be appreciated. We assume you will cull the deadwood. Remember that in pruning, you want to cut pretty close into sound wood, as this actually promotes rapid healing and leaves no dead stump to fester. Also, you will of course bear in mind that we have a little different approach, expensewise, on items for the general public, as opposed to rush government orders. The Krawler should retail at not over #, according to market simulation on our big new remember, does not have to fit into a cramped space, or endure high acceleration, vacuum, or a lunar landing. It won't break our heart if the thing fails to last long enough for our great-grandchildren to play with It on Mars; of course, it shouldn't fall apart before the holidays are over, either. I know I don't have to spell this out for you, Jim. Ed and I are going to be out on the coast for a couple of weeks, enjoying the California smog, and trying out those twelve-lane, six-deck highways they brag about. If the merger goes through, we'll be gone another week, anyway, but that won't matter. We'll be so diversified then that nothing but another # could really put us under. So, bear down hard on the reconversion, streamlining, and rationalization of your operation. tion indicates that the other two kits should sell, respectively, at # and #. Obviously, you can shoot the works on the latter model, though we'll expect a more generous profit, too. Just what these other two kits should be, we don't know, as our programmer was evidently unable to figure out just how to put the question to the computor. The computor gave out nothing but gibberish on the subject. So we'll leave that up to you. This is, of course, all your responsibility, Jim, but I hope you'll be generally guided by the spirit of these few suggestions. We'll look forward to seeing things well along when we get back from Cal. Stu H eyden sat up straight, and swore. He hit the intercom button. "Nell!" There was a startled feminine squeak, "Sir?" "Dig up that note from Stu Grossrad -- the one he sent about eighteen months ago -- the one that said 'full speed ahead, damn the torpedoes,' and so on." "That was longer ago than eighteen months. I think -- " "Never mind that. Dig it up. And the one before that -- that one about blasting out a foxhole and hiding m it. And the one before that, too -- I think there was one before that." Heyden sat back and looked over the note. A fresh burst of profanity escaped him just as his secretary came in with several sheets of paper, and then, blushing bright pink, turned to leave. "Hold on," said Heyden. He looked over the previous notes, and glanced up at her. "Listen to this: ... the sky's no limit, boy. With this monster government program shaping up, we can carve off any size chunk we can eat. So beef up your technical staff, get that wild blue yonder stuff out of the deep freeze, shove this low-key junk we're working on onto a back burner, and set your sights on Arcturus...' " Heyden looked up in angry indignation. "There're three pages like that." "Yes, sir." His secretary looked baffled for a moment, then struggled to match his look of indignation. "And," said Heyden, reaching for an earlier note, "before that, we had this business: " ... too bad, but the bottom has gone out the way it can only go out when Uncle pulls the plug, and now instead of cruising along in ten fathoms of deep green sea, all of a sudden we're grinding on the rocks. We're going to have to shorten sail and throw the ballast overboard, or we're ended right here. We're top heavy with hypertechnical stuff that nobody wants but Uncle -- when ha wants it. And now he doesn't want it. So get rid of it. Junk the fancy projects. What we need is a moneymaker, fast...' " Heyden shoved that aside, glared up at his secretary, who swallowed nervously, and then he reached for the earliest sheet of paper, settled back, and read aloud: " '... the opportunity of the century, boy. We can get in there on the ground floor. Jhe public is screaming for action. Congress is boiling over with urgency. It's, "Get results! Damn the expense!" I don't need to tell you that in an atmosphere like this, the streets are paved with golden opportunity. Now's the time to beef up your technical staff, build for the future, get in on the ground floor, rv!...' " Heyden slapped the papers down. "And so on, for pages. Well, there we are. Just what do you think of that?" His secretary scanned his face quickly and looked indignant again. I "just what happens here. We're like a damn-fool rocket that wastes half its thrust decelerating. Now we're supposed to unload people we pirated away from other outfits six months ago. Twelve to eighteen months from now, we'll be scrambling to get these very same people back again. We set up a winning team, then when we get a few points ahead in the international game, we have to disband it. The other team, over across the ocean, keeps on playing, and all of a sudi r den there comes a howl from the fans. The opposition is wiping us all over the field. Then, quick , we've got to put together a winning team again. And then, again, when we get a few points ahead -- " His face changed expression, and for a moment he looked boiling mad. Then he blew out his breath, and shrugged, "It's like a manic-depressive psychosis. The wasted energy is terrific. And when we're on the 'down' half of the cycle, if the other side should just get far enough ahead -- " "Yes, sir," said his secretary agreeably. "That's just what you said the last time, sir. Did you want to see Mr. Benning, or should I -- " Heyden scowled. "What does Benning want?" "He says it's about that advanced 'High-G' project. I knew you'd be busy reading Mr. Grossrad's letter, so I had Mr. Benning wait." Heyden shrugged. "It's all academic now. But send him in." "Yes, sir." She went out. A moment later, a tall intense man with blue eyes that seemed to be lit from within walked through the doorway, carrying under one arm a bundle wrapped in dark green paper. He shut the door, walked directly to Heyden's desk, and set the bundle down. There was a faint light crackle of paper, and then the bundle tipped lightly back and forth, resting on the desk with all the solidity of a piece of hollow balsa wood. Having set the bundle down, Benning now glanced all around furtively, then nodded to Heyden. "Well," he said, In a low secretive voice, "we got it." Heyden was glancing from the bundle to Benning. He'd never seen Benning like this before. Benning, blue eyes glowing, repeated, "We got it." He turned, glanced around the room, put his finger to his lips, and reached across the stupefied Heyden's desk to pick up a scratch pad. He scribbled rapidly as Heyden, with fastgrowing uneasiness, moved his chair back so he'd have freedom of action if it suddenly developed that Benning had gone off the deep end. Benning sat down across the desk, and slid the pad to Heyden. Heyden read: High-G total success. Working model right there across the desk from you. Don't talk about it out loud. Have reason to think your office here is bugged . n H eyden glanced rapidly from the pad to Benning to the greenwrapped package. For a moment he considered what it would mean if Benning was telling the truth. The package immediately looked like a huge bundle of big green banknotes. He came back to earth and reminded himself that Benning might be out of his head. He wrote rapidly on the pad: Bugged by who, the Russians? and said aloud, "When you come in here with that portentious look, Ben, you better have something to back it up. You say you 'got it.' Don't just sit there looking happy. You got what?" IF Benning could now do any of a number of things, and Heyden sat on the edge of his chair, watching intently to see what came next. Benning looked at the pad, glanced at places where a "bug" might be hidden, and crossed his fingers to show he spoke for the benefit of uninvited listeners. "What we've got is a damn good gimmick to get us a government contract on this, boy. We've run into a little glimmer of pay dirt on this one. I can see just how to start the golden flood pouring in, and keep it flowing for years." He wrote rapidly on the pad, and shoved it across the desk. Heyden read. Not the Russians. . . Heyden winced and glanced around. "M'm," he said aloud. "Well, I don't know. I got quite a note from Stu Grossrad." Benning sat up. "No kidding?" "No kidding." "What did Stu say?" "What does he ever say? It's either 'Full speed ahead!' or 'Emergency reverse!' The last time, we were supposed to go all out, shoot the works. Naturally, this time we're opposed to chop off all the deadwood, shove everything we're working on now onto the back burner, and pull that toy kit idea off the back burner and put it onto the front burner. Whenever we're eager to do something, we're supposed to let it congeal on the back burner. When we couldn't care less about the thing, then we're supposed to work on it. How does this fit in with your bright new idea?" "Not so hot What toy kit is that?" Heyden wrote: . . You mean Interdisciplinary Intellectronetics? Or Interspatial Ionics? He shoved the pad across the desk, then handed over the note from Grossrad. "Read it. You'll remember." Benning crackled the paper, glanced at the pad, wrote briefly, looked back at the note, wrote some more, glanced at the note and groaned. "Ye gods. Hasn't somebody else got a Moon Krawler out by now? This thing was a bright idea when we thought of it. It's stale now." He slid the pad across, and Heyden read: I mean Interdis etc.-Jawbreaker Electronics , Inc. Heyden wrote, Where did you learn this? Aloud, he said, "Naturally, we'll be supposed to gimmick it up with flashing lights, clicking noises, and a recorded voice like a talking doll, only more mechanical. No doubt the thing should have claws that open and shut, a power scoop for, quote, taking samples of the lunar surface, end-quote, and maybe a guide-wire to control it with as it crawls across the livingroom rug waving its claws." #CT)oy," said Benning. "From theD sublime to the ridiculous in one easy jump." He shoved the pad back. "WTiat's this business about the # item? What toy could we make that anyone would be crazy enough to buy at that price?" Heyden was reading: Right from the horse s mouth. Their Industrial I Intelligence chief. They're in some kind of financial cramp, want to cut his salary and slash his staff , "temporarily " Heyden said, "Take a look through some recent toy catalog. You'll get a shock." He wrote, Is he reliable? Benning had been rapidly scanning Grossrad's note, but was now reading it more carefully. He glanced up in exasperation. "Listen to this:... of course, it shouldn't fall apart before the holidays are over... Isn't that nice?" He glanced at the pad, wrote rapidly, and said, "What kind of sleazy junk are we supposed to turn out, anyway?" "Just so it sells," grunted Heyden. He took the pad, and read: That guy is as reliable as a rusted-out two-buck hair-trigger Spanish automatic. He just figures . . is doublecrossing him, and he never lets anybody get ahead of him in that game. "You realize," said Heyden, frowning, "we're going to have to let some people go and that we'll wish we'd kept them about eighteen months from now." "Agh," growled Benning, still reading the note. "Listen to this: 'Introduction of any new and revolutionary gimcrack at this time would, therefore, be most unwelcome and inexpedient.' Just suppose we should hit on something new and revolutionary?" fie tipped his head toward the green-wrapped bundle. "Then what? Are we supposed to think you can actually put it in cold storage, and keep it like frozen fish? Suppose somebody else gets it? What's the point of this whole thing, anyway?" Heyden wrote: Whafs in that bundle? He slid the pad across the desk, and said, "Let's get back to the question of those people we're going to have to let go." Benning wrote on the pad, then said aloud, "This is crazy." "Do you think," said Heyden drily, "that you're telling me something?" He glanced at the pad: Lift off the paper and see. Heyden felt a tightness in his chest. He said, "Let's have that note from Grossrad. I've been reading some of his previous stuff here -- " He stood up, gently pulled off the green paper -- "and nobody can tell me anything new about how crazy -- " He stared at the short length of board with square box attached, and slide-wire rheostat beside the box. Beneath the rheostat was a penciled arrow pointing to the right, and marked "Up". T Tevden felt a brief spasm of irAA ritation. What was this supposed to be? Antigravity? He felt a brief wave of dizziness as he thought, Ye gods, what if it is? Belatedly, he finished his sentence: " -- how crazy a thing like this really is." "But," said Benning sourly, "we're stuck with it? Is that what you mean?" "Yeah." Heyden pulled the board toward him, noting its weird lightness, despite the fact that it felt solid enough to the fingers. "We're stuck with it, and we better figure out who to let go." "I should think," said Benning, "that would be your job." # IP Heyden shoved Ac rheostat slider in the direction of the arrow. The board drifted up out of his hands, and started accelerating toward the ceiling. A hasty grab brought it down, but it continued to tug toward the sky. "My responsibility " said Heyden, eyeing the board, "but I need your suggestions." "As to who to fire?" "Say, as to who to keep" He slid the rheostat slider in the opposite direction, and the board sagged so heavily that it seemed to Heyden that it must be made out of solid lead. Frowning, he said, "Take Magnusson, for instance. We could unload him to start with, I suppose." "He's had a lot of expenses. His bank balance is pretty feeble." Heyden was experimenting with the slider. He got the impression that as he approached either end, the weight or lift of the concealed device went off toward infinity. He paused to glance at the connections to the rheostat. "Not our fault," he grunted. "No, but -- " "The point is, that's his worry." The board was headed for the ceiling again, and it felt as if it would tear Heyden's arm out by the roots. Scowling, he pulled the slider back toward the center. Benning said, "I think we ought to be decent enough to give Magnuuson enough time to get back on his feet." "How about Simms?" The board was so heavy Heyden had to rest it on the corner of his desk. As he pushed the slider further, the board settled immovably in place, as if spiked down. "Well," said Benning evasively, "Simms has had a little streak of bad luck, too." "What have we got," said Heyden, carefully pulling the slider back, "nothing but hard-luck cases?" "Well, you know how. it is -- " "We've got to start somewhere " "Sure, but poor Simms -- " "We aren't going to get anywhere this way. Make out a list of the people you think are essential. I want them in groups, the most essential at the top of the list." He wrote on the pad: Did #.' s spychief say there was a visual pickup anywhere in here? Benning glanced at the pad. "What the heck, Jim. I can't know which men are essential till I know what we'll have to do later." "Just assume it's the usual thing, Ben. We've been through this before." He pulled the pad over, and read: He didn't say . Personally , I doubt it. Heyden wrote: We better explain this package , in case there's something outside. Benning read it, and nodded. Heyden said, "Well, forget that for now. What have you got over there in that paper?" Benning shrugged. "A little promotion gizmo." He rattled the paper. "See, you look in these portholes, and you're inside the spaceship. Shows our control panel, amongst other things, for the Genie Project." "Cute," conceded Heyden, smiling wryly. "Well that's down the drain now. Wrap it up and forget it." "Based on the old-time stereoscope," said Benning, putting the actual board with its box and rheostat inside the paper wrapper. "Too bad. It seemed like a good -- " Heyden wrote on the pad, Let's go somewhere where wc can talk. Aloud, he said sourly, "I ut it on the back burner. Now, I've had enough of this for a while. Where are you headed?" Benning glanced at the pad. "Back to my lab. You want to come along?" Heyden put Grossrad's latest note in his pocket. "Sure." Ill T hey went out, walked down a lengthy corridor, went into a big airy structure built on the general lines of a hangar for dirigibles, walked along the wall to the right, and finally arrived at a door marked, "Private -- Danger -- Keep Out." Heyden followed Benning inside, and down a short hall. Benning did something complicated at the door, then they stepped in. Benning snapped on the lights, then flipped another switch, and the room filled with sounds of laughing voices, the clink of glasses, cars starting up somewhere in the background, and a close-at-hand murmur and mumble that seemed to include every tone of voice conceivable. "Okay," murmured Benning, "I think this room is safe enough, but if they have got anything in here, they're welcome to try and filter ut out from this mess. You did see what we've got, plainly enough, back in your office?" "I saw it. But did you see what we're going to run into when we try to convince Grossrad?" "He couldn't be so stupid he wouldn't catch on to this." "That's not the point. He sayi new gadgets aren't wanted. This means somebody higher up figures we've now settled down to a nice international stalemate, with us ahead of the opposition. This device. it strikes me, is going to make a lot of expensive equipment obsolete in a hurry." "You're not just kidding. With this, we could put a man on the moon in a few weeks, not years from now. And that's just the start." "What the Sam Hill is it, anyway?" Benning frowned. "Did you ever hear the comparison of gravitational fields with the bending of a frictionless surface?" "I think I know what you mean. If you had a flat frictionless surface, flexible enough to bend when objects were placed on it, and if this whole frictionless surface were accelerating uniformly at right angles to the plane of the surface -- " Benning nodded. "That's it." Heyden went on. "If you had such a frictionless surface, an object would slide across it in a straight line until it neared another object, when the dip in the surface caused by these objects would pull them toward each other. There would be, apparently, a 'gravitational field' around each object, the strength of the 'field' depending on the mass of the object." "Exactly. This would cause the effect of attraction. Now, how would you creat repulsion ?" "Well -- " Heyden frowned. "There would have to be a hill -- a ridge, or rise, in the frictionless surface. You could do it only if the surface had some other property -- if it were made of the right metal, for instance, you could position magnets toward the stern of a properly shaped object resting on the surface, and this might create enough slope to cause the object to slide forward -- " Benning was nodding and smiling broadly. "That's one idea. And how much power would it take?" "It would depend on the properties of the surface." "Yes. Well, we started this project without much hope that there was any physical counterpart to this comparison. But after tracking down some previously unexplained discrepencies, we found it. The effect can be made comparatively large, the power consumption is small, and by proper manipulation, we can create either a positive or negative deflection of the 'surface'. The result is, we've got a space drive." H eyden sat back, and thought it over. "This just could be a nightmare. How complicated is it?" "Mathematically, it's very complicated. Physically, it's not bad." "This might make life very exasperating for everybody concerned with it." Benning frowned. "Of course, it's bound to be highly classified. They'll doubtless bury it under a ton of regulations, but -- Oh." Benning was silent. "Naturally, we discovered it We shouldn't be running around at loose ends, ready to spill the works in the nearest bar." "Naturally, that's one aspect. But there are others. Now, how much leverage do you get with this thing? How much advantage over a rocket, for instance?" "Agh. Ye gods, a rocket." "Could it beat a rocket for speed?" "Easy. Weight for weight -- I mean weight at rest with the device turned off -- there's no comparison." "How about for lifting a payload?" "There's still no comparison. You don't have to lift a lot of cargo you're just going to fire out the tail end anyway." "Could you put a warhead in one of these and hit within five miles a thousand miles away?" Benning hesitated. "Not yet." "But eventually?" After a long silence, Benning said, "For accuracy, used as a missile power source, I fail to see any advantage in this. But you could knock one of your opponent's missiles off course with it. You might even smash it up in mid-air." "How would you do that?" "Make one big enough, with enough power back of it, make a strong enough mount and screw the thing down to a solid base -- What do you think you've got? It's a tractor-repulsor unit. You can make a steep 'hill' in the 'frictionless surface' the missile is sliding along. What does that interpret as in physical reality? A violent repulsion. Then you can make a trough. Subject anything to sudden yanks and Aoves, and what happens to it?" Heyden nodded slowly. Benning said, "Didn't I see you pick up Grossrad's note before we left?" "Yes, you want it?" "I'd like to look it over again." Heyden felt through his pockets, and handed the note to Benning. Benning read the note amidst gales of hurrying girlish laughter that grew loud and faded, with male curses, mumbling, a variety of audible conversations, and a weird varying note in the background. Benning grunted and looked up. "He sure doesn't leave any doubt about this 'no new advances wanted at this time'." Heyden nodded. "That's what bothers me." "But," said Benning, "any good business man can see the potential in this." "What potential? Where's the profit in something you can never put Oil the market because it's sure to be classified?" "Well, the defense contracts, then." H eyden shook his head gloomily. "Remember: 'we are now so far ahead of the international competition, defensewise, that no large new government orders can be expected.' " Benning said angrily, "Can't you convince that guy -- " "Probably, but so what? Grossrad doesn't write contracts with himself. Suppose I convince him? Then he's got to convince somebody else. That guy has to convince the next one. At some point in there, someone conceivably may have to convince the defense secretary, and he may have to convince Congress. This is assuming it goes through all those offices and ever comes out again. Each of those guys is going to be hard to convince, precisely because he knows how hard it's going to be to convince the next man. Meanwhile, all we can do is chew our nails and wait for their decision." Benning said, "While we're waiting, what if somebody else, say in some foreign laboratory, maybe even where they've got pictures of Big Brother hanging on the wall -- What if they should come up with this?" "Is that conceivable?" "Sure, it's conceivable. I told you, physically, this thing is not too bad." He frowned. "Well, what then?" Heyden frowned. "As soon as they make it public, count on us to get a contract so big we couldn't fill it if we were General Motors, U.S. Steel, and A. T. and T. combined. We'll have to kidnap every scientist and technician we can lay our hands  # on. Benning said angrily, "We're missing something here. What if they don't make it public? What if they quietly build up a fleet of these tilings while we're sitting around waiting for the go-ahead? They could seal off outer space so tight # IF we'd never get out there." An intense look appeared on Benning's face. "Think, Jim -- what if they're building them right now?" Heyden blinked, gave an irritated wave of his hand as if to dismiss die thought, then frowned. "How hard is it to make these things?" "I've told you. The actual physical construction isn't too bad, once you know what to do." There was a long period in which neither man said anything. Then Heyden said slowly, "You said, 'With this, we could put a man on the moon in a few weeks? Did you mean that literally?" Benning nodded. "Remember all die research that's already been done. Think of the problems we don't have, because the drive is no worry. Think how we're set up here. Sure, in three weeks, we could put a man on that moon." "Could you mount the drive so it could also be used as a weapon?" "Yes. And, for that matter, a smaller one could serve as an auxiliary weapon in flight, if you wanted. But it would take money." Heyden thought it over, then grinned. "If Grossrad's going to have his Kiddie Kits ready in time, he's going to have to give us money." "Are you serious?" "Yes, I'm serious. This is the biggest technological advance in history." Benning was wide eyed. "And what you're thinking of making is a full-size spaceship -- good enough for an actual expedition?" "That's exactly what I want -- tf we can make such a thing. No trim. No flimflam. Just let it work." Benning seemed to lose some enthusiasm. "This is risky." Heyden nodded. "You bet your life it's risky. If Grossrad gets wind of it I'll be hung from the rafters. But never mind that. Are you sure you can do it?" "Of course I'm sure," Benning frowned. "Right now we can do this better than Kiddie Kits. A month from now, if we fellow Grossrad's letter, it'll be a different story. But -- " "Then this may be the only chance our side gets. We'd better take it." Benning drew a deep shaky breath. "Okay." IV T he next two weeks passed in a blur of desperate activity that left Heyden with no time to think of anything but the problem immediately in front of him. Benning's remark that a man could be put on the moon in a few weeks turned out to be a little optimistic. Benning said exasperatedly, "I didn't figure in all that life-support stuff. So far as the drive is concerned, that's what I meant." Heyden said angrily, "We could have put a corpse on the moon a long time ago." "I'm sorry," said Benning. "We're coming fast, anyway. Thank heaven the thing is basically simple." Before them loomed a big black ihape like an overgrown boiler. It had all the sophistication of a dedge-hammer, but Benning insisted k could take off inside a week. "You see," he said, "the only real problem with the drive is durability under stress. Theoretically, we could use that demonstration model I showed you. The trouble is that in practice if the drive-unit is too small, it will crush." "That's nice. But we've got around that, have we?" "Yes." Heyden eyed the looming black boiler shape. "We don't want to get out there" and get cooked. "The other side shades from black into a pure reflective coating." "How do we see out of it? -- In addition to the radar, which may fail on us?" "There's a window in the end. Also, we're practising with a lightweight kind of drive-unit. We figure we can use that as a sort of detector." "How does it work?" "To create a given negative bending or warping where there's a physical object present takes more power than where there isn't. Set things up right, and you can read the mass of the given object off a meter." "How about distance?" "The reading drops in front and behind the object. There's no problem there.". Heyden stared at the looming shape and nodded slowly. He had no clear idea why there was no problem there; but there was nothing to do but take Benning's word for it, and hope things would turn out. He turned to make a final comment, then paused. A bulky overalled form had juft ducked out the door of the boilershape, and now, scowling deeply, pushed through a knot of people standing just outside. Carrying a flimsy sheet of yellow paper, he headed straight for Benning, and immediately got down to brass tacks. "That inside-drive idea won't work. If we try that, we're going to swivel that drive around, stress the walls, and crack the window on the end. That leaves us with an airleak. That drive has to go outside " # #HPhat's insane," said Benning A angrily. "With that size unit, the whole ship's inside the distortion." "Maybe, but there's a fringe effect." "We're inside it." "We are? Look at this." Benning took the paper. "WeH... This is just a freakish -- " "Maybe it doesn't last long, but what's it going to do to that window?" "Yes, but if we put it outside it will still -- " "Not if we have it on a boom. That puts us outside that gradient" Benning stared at him. "How long a boom?" "About two hundred feet should do it." "Two hundred -- " "Unless you can breathe vacuum, that's where it's got to go, if we make it that size." Benning was staring at the flimsy sheet of paper as there came the sound of a feminine throatclearing to Heyden's right. He IF glanced around to see his secretary holding out a special-delivery letter. Leaving Benning to deal with the technical problem, Heyden headed back to his office, and read the handwritten letter: Jim -- Well, boy, we've got the merger, but doing business with this outfit really puts your wallet through the wringer. I hope you're coming along fine with the Kiddie Kits. We'll need every cent we can scrape up, so pare expenses to the bone, and shave everything just as fine as you can. We're going to have to cut down more than I expected on the scientific talent, and I just hope we can pick them up again when we need them. I know how this Kiddie Kit business must strike you after the stuff we've been working on, but when the oasis gets this dry, there's nothing to do but fold your tents and move on. Nothing we could produce, no matter how advanced, would get a really sympathetic hearing right now. I don't mean to dwell on this, Jim. I know we can count on you all the way, even if it is a let-down. I keep harping on it because I think this toy business is going to make the difference, one way or the other. It's hard to believe, I know, but there it is. Ed and I are both totally worn out. There are some things that you have to do in business that aren't very business-like, but there's no time to argue about that. You either do them or get kicked in the head, and somebody else walks off with the prize. I must be more worn-out than I realized to go on like this. Well, here's to the merger, and stick to those Kddie Kits. You don't know what it means to know we've got somebody back there we can count on. We'll see you in a week, Jim. Stu Heyden swallowed and sat back dizzily. When his vision cleared, there stood, across the desk, an apologetic individual from Purchasing. "Sorry, sir, but it seems we have to have your signature on this." Heyden took it, and scowled at the figures. "Are you sure the addition is right?" "Yes, sir. That special silver wire is expensive stuff." Heyden sat still for a moment, then scratched out his name. The paper was briskly whisked away. "Thank you, sir." The door shut, and the incident was gone beyond recall. Heyden picked up the note, read it through again, and shook his head. He started to get up, then changed his mind. He sat still a minute, then drew in a deep breath and let it out in a rough sigh. The realization went through him with inescapable finality that in seven days the ship would be ready or not ready. And then something else, that he'd been vaguely aware of theoretically took on a sudden solidness and reality. In seven days, he would be either a hero of broad vision, or a fool and a traitor. And there was not a thing he could do about it. He had made his move, and if it didn't work out, he could never, never explain it. r ie first four or fivt days after that crawled past with Heyden almost in a daze. Time and again, between emergencies, he dredged up memories, trying to discover exactly how he had gotten into this. The astonishing thing was that, in retrospect, the decision seemed to have been so easy. Blandly, calmly, he had given the decision that might wreck the corporation, and land him, personally, in the worst mess he'd ever been in. His meditations were enlivened, toward the end of the week, by a telephone call from the comptroller. "Hello, Jim?" "Right here, Sam." Heyden tried without success to inject a little warmth into his voice. His voice retained a calm unconcerned coolness. There was .a hesitant cough over the phone. "Say, no offense, Jim, but what the devil is going on there?" "Business as usual," came Heyden's voice, cool and totally assured. "Granted the changes that I'm sure Stu must have told you about." "Well, Stu told me -- " There was a brief pause. "Do you know something I don't know? Is that it?" Heyden laughed. The sound was that of a man without a worry in the world. "Sam," his voice said cheerfully, "before I know if I know anything you don't know, I know you know I have to know what you know, otherwise I won't know, you know, if what I know is something you don't know." "Ah, for -- " Over the phone, the cautious voice sounded irritated but relieved. "Listen, we can kid all we want, but this is serious business." "It is" said Heyden emphatically. After a moment, he added, "Thank heaven." "What do you mean? Wait a minute, now, do you mean -- " There was a long silence. "I know, of course, that the merger went through, but I didn't realize -- Do you mean that we're frying their fish?" "All I can say is, this here is serious business. If Stu didn't tel you, I'm not going into it over tbe phone." "What if I come down there?" "Glad to see you anytime, Sam. But I can't mention it if Stu didn't." "Did Stu say, specifically, not to tell me?" "No. Of course not." "Then why can't you -- " "Because he didn't tell me He mention it." "Maybe I better call him up." "No harm in it. Just don't give anything away over the phone." "Then how the devil am I -- " W Heyden said irritatedly, "Look, Sam, I'm sure it was an oversight on his part. Stu doesn't make a practice of leaving anyone in the dark. But he was worn out. I don't know what he had to do to put the merger across, but he seemed pretty thoroughly wrung out to me. Now, you can either try to locate him now, or you can wait a couple of days till he can tell you himself." "All right. But meanwhile we're spending -- " H eyden exploded. "What do I have to do, spell it out? For Pete's sake, Sam! Look, do you think Stuart Grossrad is a commercial moron? With things the way they are now, would he deliberately stretch us out as thin as a rubber band? This merger wasn't a cheap proposition, you know." "Well -- the point of the merger was that, ultimately we'd reap the advantages of diversification." "How would that get us through the next six months?" There was a lengthy silence. Finally there was a long sigh over the telephone. "Did Stu tell you this beforehand?" "Beforehand, all he told me was such a tale of misery I almost drowned in my own tears. No. He didn't tell me a thing, beforehand. What I couldn't figure out was why he was so eager for this merger, if there wasn't more in it than what he mentioned." "He's smooth, all right. He wanted us psychologically set up to take full advantage of this. Or, if the merger fell through, he didn't want us moping around, thinking we'd lost our last chance. Either way it went, he was ready." "I suppose that must have been it." "Well -- I just had to find out. No hard feelings, Jim?" "Of course not, Sam. Any time." "See you, boy." "So long, Sam." Heyden put the phone in its cradle, and mopped his forehead. He had, if Sam remained convinced, succeeded in hanging on to two more days. If, that is, Grossrad didn't decide to come back early. If there were no other catastrophes. Heyden glanced at his watch, and decided to go take a look and see how Benning was coming along. It took Heyden some time to walk down the long corridor, but only a few moments more to find his answer. The big boiler shape stood in solitary glory in the hangarlike building, apparently forgotten. Everyone was fifty feet away, crowded around a smouldering mess about a foot-and-a-half long and eight inches in diameter, and that had, apparently, once been something useable. Benning had his hand at his chin, staring at his ruin. He, and the rest of the men, all looked so dazed and tired that Heyden didn't have the heart to ask what had happened. Wearily, he shut the door, went back to his office, and sat down. "Well, Stu," he said mentally, "you see I thought we could make it to the moon... Yes, the moon... Yes, I know the thing doesn't work, Stu... That's where all IF the money went Stu... That's right... Yes, Stu... Sorry... Yes... That's right, Stu -- I mean Mr. Grossrad... Yes, Mr. Grossrad, I did it on my own responsibility... Yes, sir, I know, but -- You see, sir, if somebody else had got it -- And if it had worked, Mr. Grossrad, then... I know it didn't sir, but -- " Heyden abruptly sat up, and smashed his fist on the desk. "Damn it," he said savagely, "it's got to work!" B y the time he got to Benning again, Benning looked glassyeyed with pure stupefaction, and the others had expressions that varied from ordinary gloom to total defeatist resignation. Heyden told himself that he would have to keep himself under tight control. "What's this?" he said abruptly, and a good deal louder than he'd intended. Instantly, every eye in the room was focused on him. They watched him with the alert attention a man gets when he breaks the silence by cracking a bullwhip. Benning turned around, his expression that of bafflement and disbelief. "This size builds up heat faster than we imagined. It's got to have a cooling system." "Is that the drive-unit for the ship?" "No, this is the forward unit. The ship drive-unit is bound to be worse yet." "How long to rig up a cooling system?" "Too long. We've not only got to cool the drive-unit itself, we've then got to unload all the heat from the cooling system. The stupefying thing is, we tested for this with smaller units, and the heat build-up was gradual and well within bounds. We've apparently run into some effect that increases exponentially with mass, while thrust -- " "Can you get the same thrust with a group of small units as with one large one?" Benning blinked. "It wouldn't be as efficient , but yes, we could do that." "Any drawbacks to having a bunch of them?" "Yes. All the mounts have to be duplicated -- " "Why not mount them together?" "If they're too close, we've discovered they interact." "Can you mount them far enough apart so they don't interact, but not so far apart as to make control impossible?" "Yes, but the expense -- " "Damn the expense," said Heyden savagely. "How long will it take?" Benning mopped his forehead. "If we work straight through without a break we can have it ready the day after tomorrow." "All right. Starting now, everyone who volunteers to work straight through, and who sticks with it, gets a quadruple pay, and a thousand-dollar bonus after taxes, if the job's done on time." There was a brief sudden buzz of excitement. "My God!" blurted Benning. n "Look what's at stake!" said Heyden angrily. "Control of space! A drive that can reach the planets! All the high-grade ore in the asteroid belt! -- Are we going to fold up, or are we going to get it?" He paused just long enough to see the glint in their eyes, then turned to Benning. "What do you need?" Benning said soberly. "A list as long as your arm." "Let's have it." Benning got him off away from the others. "Listen, do you know what's going to happen to you if -- " "It's too late for that." "I wish I'd never brought that damned thing to your office." "We've taken a flying jump, and we're now halfway out over the crevasse. There's no point wishing we'd never jumped. We've got to go the rest of the way and put our mind on grabbing any bush or clump of grass that will get us over the lip of that drop." Benning swallowed. "Okay." "Now listen," said Heyden. "You're going to need plenty of hot coffee in here, and I don't know if you can literally keep going withr out any break. We don't want a bunch of zombies staggering around in here holding the wrong end of the wrench." "You're right. Could we have tome rough army blankets and some narrow folding cots? That's heaven for an exhausted man, but he shouldn't be too reluctant to get up." "Good idea. Now can you finish it by the day after tomorrow?" Benning nodded. "If, God willing, nothing else goes wrong." V T he next day was a nightmare. Suppliers were beginning to need reassurance about pay. A weird rumor was making the rounds, to the effect that Grossrad had stripped the corporation treasury and was now settled down in Brazil with a nicely tanned blonde mistress, the two of them living cozily in a mansion with an Olympic-sized swimming pool outdoors, and gold-plated faucets indoors. Heyden put the rumor down temporarily by showing the two handaddressed envelopes from Grossrad, with their recent postmarks, but the rumor failed to stay down. It popped up again with new refinements. Someone who looked just like Grossrad had been seen in Brazil by Milton Sharpbinder, vice-president of Interdisciplinary Intellectronetics, and Milton had immediately called back to sell his holdings in Continental Multitechnikon before the bottom fell out. Somebody else had actually been out near Grossrad's Brazilian mansion, and had seen him lolling with a bottle in a deck chair while the blonde did laps in the Olympicsized pool. The details mounted up fantastically. Grossrad had been seen wheeling around the streets of Rio driving a Mercedes-Benz roadster. Later information had it that it was a # #SL Mercedez-Benz with removable hardtop, and Grossrad was gripping a long thin cigar between his teeth, and had one arm casually around the blonde. SomeIF how, the burgeoning details added further solidity to the rumor, which grew yet more solid as Grossrad moved on and was seen with the blonde at Copacabana. That this was not just a local rumor developed as Continental Multitechnikon began to slide on the stock market while other space tocks were creeping upward. This, in turn, seemed to support the rumor. In the midst of this, with suppliers demanding payment in solid-gold bars on delivery, the phone rang and a familiar voice jumped out: "Say, Heyden, what the hell is going on out there? I just got a phone call from Sam, and he's -- " "Stu?" shouted Heyden, his voice filled with synthetic delight. "Hello? Is that you?" "Is it me? Who the -- " "Hold on! Listen, we've got a bunch of guys here who think -- wait a minute. Where are you calling from?" "Where am I calling from? Santa Barbara. What about it? Listen, what -- " "Where have you been the last week?" "I've been holed up, getting over what we had to go through to get that merger across, what do you think? Didn't you get my letter? Listen, what the -- " "We've got a bunch of guys here that claim they don't supply us, because you're down in Brazil with a blonde, rolling around in a Mercedes #SL." "I'm what?" Before Heyden could say anything, one of the men in the room said nervously, "Is that him? How do we know -- " Heyden said, "I don't know if yoH heard that, Stu. They think maybe this isn't you. Could you talk to a few of these -- " "Wait a minute now. What is this? I don't get this." # # T) race yourself. There's a rumor afloat that you've disappeared, vanished completely, and someone like you has been seen in Rio by -- get this, Stu -- by Milton Sharpbinder, who immediately dumped all his holdings in Continental before the news of what had happened got out -- " "Sharpbinder, eh?" "Yes, and someone else definitely saw you living in a mansion down there with gold plumbing and a big swimming pool. It seems you were outside by the pool, taking the sun, watching this blonde plow back and forth -- " Grossrad laughed. Heyden said, "Before you laugh this off have you taken a look at the financial page lately?" On the other end of the line, Grossrad was starting to have hysteria, but that brought him around. "No," he said, "that's one thing I haven t been doing. I've been trying to get a rest. Is this stupid play by Sharpbinder actually -- " "We're going down. Everybody else is going up." "That boob is just one week too late to hurt us. If this drop had come last week, without our having any idea what was wrong -- " "Just the same, I still don't think it would hurt if you showed yourself out there." "I will. Now, let me speak to a few of these boys that think I'm in Brazil." Heyden said, "Okay," and held out the phone. A few minutes later, Grossrad was saying to Heyden, "I had no idea this was the trouble. Sam went through all kinds of verbal contortions trying to tell me something without giving away anything. The impression I got was that you were making off with the treasury, not me." He laughed. "I was relieved to even hear your voice." Heyden laughed. " was relieved to hear you. I was starting to believe this business about the blonde." Grossrad laughed so hard Heyden had to hold the phone out away from his ear. Then Grossrad, halfchoked, said, "Say, Jim, you won't skip out now? You will be there when I get back?" "Either here, or halfway to the moon." "I know what you mean." Grossrad burst out laughing again. "I was in orbit myself for a little bit there. Well, so long, Jim. I'm going out and make myself public." Heyden felt like a hollow shell as he put the phone back in its cradle. But, with an effort of will, he looked deliberately around the room, and studied the shamefaced glances that looked back at him. "Now," he said, with forced calm, "can we go back to doing business on a normal basis?" No one offered any objection. T he needed supplies came in, but the tension failed to ease. The final day was the worst. The comptroller came to Heyden's office while Heyden was on pins and needles to go see Benning, and it was a precious half-hour before Heyden could get free. Then, just as he was leaving his office, a telegram arrived from Grossrad telling when he would be back. Heyden glanced at his watch and saw with a shock that he had only two hours and fifteen minutes left. If he wasn't at the airport, Grossrad would be puzzled, and then curious. If he was at the airport, Grossrad would be bound to question him about the Kiddie Kits, and the lack of work he had done on them would show up quickly. Either way, the lid would be off inside an hour more at the longest. That gave him three hours and fifteen minutes. Heyden sucked in a deep breath, forced himself to look brisk and confident, and went to see Benning. He found Benning slumped on a bench with his head in his hands. Heyden stared around. A number of men were asleep on cots, or rolled up in a blanket on the floor. Several their cups. Heyden looked at the spaceship. Despite what he'd said about forgetting appearance, the overgrownboiler look had been softened, at least from this angle. There was a shining silvery surface, that shaded off to one side. Heyden blinked, and glanced at Benning. "Say, you've moved this?" Benning looked up drearily. IF Heyden glanced uneasily back at tile spaceship, with its radiating arms holding what must be the driveunits. "Ben -- " he said. "It's all right, isn't it?" Benning looked down at the ground. "It doesn't work." Heyden shut his eyes. Benning's voice reached him. "I'm so tired I can't think. It worked once. We rotated the ship on minimum power. It was smooth -- perfect. And it apparently burned something out. We're all half-dead. We've checked and checked -- " Heyden forced himself to be sympathetic. "You've been working overtime for three weeks." He sucked in a long breath. "Is everythin o on board that I had on that list?" "Everything. But it doesn't work. There's no response at all." "How long to fix it?" "We'll have to tear it down completely." "How long?" "Another three weeks." Heyden sank down onto the bench beside Benning. "Oh, God," said Benning miserably. "Jim, I'm so sorry I got you into this." "Yeah," said Heyden. "It's a flop," said Benning. "We should have taken more time to test it. We ran off half-cocked." TJeyden didn't say anything.tiBenning said, "All that money. I'm so sorry, Jim. What will Grossrad do?" Heyden shut his eyes. Benning's voice came through. "We must have been crazy. That's the only explanation. No one ever does anything like this. Well, now we pay the piper." Heyden dizzily looked up to see the big shiny boiler through a haze. Someone was leaning out the door, and put his hands to his mouth like a megaphone. "Hey, Chief. The trouble is, somebody left this master switch open, back of the control panel." Benning sat paralyzed for an instant, then sprang from the bench He was across the floor and inside the ship before Heyden realized what had happened. Slowly, the meaning seeped through to Heyden. He watched. The big silver form lifted, hovered, and then smoothly rotated, the radiating arms swinging around like the spokes of a giant wheel, the central hub shading from silver to gray to black, then back to silver again. Smoothly it settled down, with a faint grating crunch. Heyden stood up. Across the room, the sound of that faint crunch turned men around at the coffee boiler. An instant later, they recognized the ship's changed position, set their cups down with a bang, let out a wild yell, and ran to wake up the men on the cots and stretched out on the floor. Heyden was still fervently thanking God when the men burst into cheers. Then Benning was wringing him by the hand. All around the huge room, it seemed that people were banging each other on the back. Heyden sucked in a deep breath. "Listen, when can we take off?" "Take off?" Benning looked blank. "We're finished. The thing's ready. It's completed, and it works." Heyden stared at him. "Do we talk different languages? What do you think we're going to do now?" Benning stared at him. "Show it to Grossrad. It's finished. It works. He'll see -- " Heyden opened his mouth and shut it with a click. "You remember what I said we wanted? -- A fullsize actual spaceship, so far as we could make such a thing. Now that we've got it, you think we're going to just show it to Grossrad? What good would that do? Outer space is in our hands, now, if that ship will do what we think it will do. And yet, what can Grossrad do with it but use it as a working model? What good does that do?" Benning swallowed. "You mean, we -- " "Who else? Have we gone through all this to quit now? We have to carry this through all the way to the finish." Benning paled. "I thought we were going to make a demonstration -- " "We are. When can we take off?" "I thought all that food and the cargo and that other gear was just to make it look good. More realistic. More -- " "The idea is to keep us from starving out there, and to fix it so we can get some use out of this. Will that radio work?" "Everything should work." "Then," said Heyden, "let's get a crew and get out of here before something else goes wrong. It shouldn't be hard to get volunteers, should it? Can you pick the men who'll be most help to us?" Benning grinned suddenly. "We're going to try to do this like Lindbergh?" "Why not?" "What about germs on the moon? What about -- " Heyden said brutally, '"If you don't want to go, say so now." Benning paused. "I want to go." "Then pick the crew while I write a note to Grossrad." B enning nodded, and started over toward the coffee boiler. Heyden whirled, and went back to his office. He yanked out a sheet of paper, and wrote fast: Stu -- When you receive this, we should be, as I jokingly said earlier, on our way to the moon. Only, this is real. Now, this is the first commercial venture into space, and no doubt the Government will blow all its fuses. Nevertheless, it is up to us to make it pay. First, I'm afraid that at the moment we're in something of a hole, financially; but we have powerful radios, along with enough lights and selected chemicals to make ourselves seen, and it seems to me there are a few commercial outfits around that ought to be happy to pay through the nose to have IF a commercial beamed toward earth from the moon. Charge more for the visual stuff, Stu. When the Government screams, point out that they will get their cut of the profits in due time. There is doubtless a whole lot of rock and dust on the moon that it wouldn't break our backs to load into the ship, and that would sell for a price per pound to rival solid platinum, but I'm sure there will be objections to that. As the next best thing, I've gotten a large quantity of thin sheet metal and loaded it on board. While we're out there, we will orbit the moon. When we come back, we can stamp ship models, which can be colored suitably and molded in plastic for souvenirs. Bear in mind, each one of these will have been around the moon and back. Next, we have a large cargo of fabric, Stu, which will also go around the moon, and can be cut up into moon scarves and moon dresses when we get back. Figure out what you can make on this, without having to charge anybody more than he will cheerfully pay for the vicarious pleasure of taking part in this trip. If this doesn't cover expenses, and leave enough over for handsome bonuses all around, I'll be surprised. Incidentally, you might put tome of this money into a special fund -- I may need it for bail bond. Jim Heyden put the letter in an. envelope, wrote Grossrad's name on the outside, and gave it to his secretary to deliver. He went back down the corridor, found Benning waiting with his chosen crew, and climbed on board. The ship slid smoothly and easily out the big opened doors, paused momentarily, and then the ground began to fall away. Heyden was beginning to have doubts. He stepped back as Benning shut the door, and said, "How are the odds on our getting out there and having some little thing strand us a hundred thousand miles from home?" "Surprisingly poor," said Benning, "assuming we can count on odds at all when we're dealing with something this new." "Why? I mean, why are the odds against us poor?" "The amount of weight we can lift with this drive. Suppose just half the weight that goes into die lower stages of a chemical rocket could be added to the payload. Think of the added space, stronger materials, spares, and general increased margin of safety. After you work on stuff to be lifted by rocket, this is a dream." H eyden relaxed and glanced around. They were standing in a small chamber with a second door partly open behind them He became conscious of a continued sensation like that of rising in a very fast elevator. Benning said, "All the same, this Is incredible, in a way." "That -- we hope -- weTe going to the moon?" "No, we're used to that idea, fantastic as it would have seemed a few years ago." He frowned "No, It's -- it's -- " Heyden suddenly caught his thought. "That we're just doing it?" Benning sighed. "Yes. Without Without stewing over it. Without a hundred changes of direction and reevaluations." Heyden nodded. "But that's supposed to be more 'scientific'." "It's more bureaucratic, anyway. But even if a method is more scientific, that's beside the point. The point is to get the job done " said Benning. He stood thinking back to that endless interval when the ship sat dead on the ground and Benning told him the whole thing was a failure, and when the weight of failure crushed him down. Then he'd learned in his bones the penalty of following one's own judgment against the shrewd decisions of superiors -- when one's own judgment turns out to be wrong. But now, beneath his feet he could feel the solid unvarying thrust, lifting them up at constant acceleration and steadily increasing speed. Down far below now were the nations of the earth, run by monster bureaucracies made up of many people who hesitated -- partly because they sensed the awful penalty for failure -- to take the risk of questioning even the most self-defeating procedures. And yet, here were Heyden and Benning and their men, high above the bureaucrats, and rising higher fast, because they had risked disgrace and disaster. They were only here by the skin of their teeth, and Heyden was beginning to realize from his reaction just how long he would think before taking a risk like that again. But, all the same, they were here . "Come on," said Heyden, walking a little heavily under the steadily maintained thrust. "Let's either get to a place where we can sit down, or go up front to that window. Maybe we could see the moon." When we meet the aliens who inhabit the worlds of the galaxy's by Tom Purdom -- plus many other great science-fiction features, articles and stories In the May Worlds of Tomorrow. On sale now -- get your copy today! IF IF  Short Story B alt Dormer was conscious of the muted thunder of blood in his ears as he stretched out on the sleeping plate. In vain he tried to relax the lank five feet of his spare frame as he dropped the colorless hood of the mentrol unit over his head and upper torso. In a matter of minutes he would be walking outside the A valoris inner cabins -- moving through a lacy blue-green jungle to his rendezvous with the disturbingly shapely Halden called Alno. His mind roamed the planet in a carcass of steel -- while his own body stayed safely in the rocketl His sweaty fingers fumbled the knobs and studs that connected bis mind with the super mech nicknamed Cass. Once the contact was established he could forget that he was a graying little technician -- plain-featured, stooped, and timid. Ernest Lytte, senior member of the planet-mapping spacer's crew of three, would be busy for three or four hours, with his records. And Jefferson Carney, the fair-skinned, bluff giant, was on his own sleeping plate, hismentrols linked with the oper mech, Herk. He was free far two or three hours... He moved forward out of the retaining clamps. For a brief moment lie was yet Balt Donner, marveling at his handsome seven-foot frame and at the sleek bronzed pseudoflesh with the powerful warm muscles rippling beneath. And then he was Cass: super mech, humanoid robot, mentrol-linked extension of Balt Donner's brain. Only faintly, in the dim reaches of his brain, did he recall that he was actually a thinning-haired wisp of a man. Now he identified himself as the thousand-pound godlike being named Cass. He checked his paralysis gun, holstered at his hip, and patted the zippered pouches that formed his only garmenture here on Hald. The humanoids of this uncharted fourth planet of Greth II went unclad even as Cass. And the policy of star mappers is always to mingle as unobtrusively as possible with the native races. For this same reason Cass' well-shaped nose had vanished into blank tanned flesh, and he ported Haldian-type nostrils below cither elongated ear. The triple airlocks sucked softly shut behind him and he stood upon the springy bluish sward of the hillock's treeless crown. And below him, to the right of the well-trodden path to the marshy lowlands where the Haldians built their slime-daubed villages, he caught a glimpse of a furtive hearthaped face among the leaves of a carlet-flowered thicket. He hurried toward the face. And now it was fully revealed, and the curving loveliness of the feminine body belonging with it. "Azaa, Cass!" the hidden one's liquid voice welcomed. "Azaa, Alno," Cass replied. Forty hours with the banks of speech analyzers and recorders of the great ship briefing him in the simple language gave him a working knowledge of this Haldian tongue. "I saw the huge one you call Herk leave the god cocoon." She shivered daintily, daintily although she lacked but inches of his own seven feet of height. "I have great fear of him." She came closer, trembling. Cass chuckled, his deep voice a mellow rumble of thunder. He put his arm around the shoulders of the girl as she turned wide violet eyes upward. Momentarily he winced at the alien smoothness of her noseless features. Yet she was beautiful. He loosed her. "Herk will not harm you," he assured Alno. "Any more than will I." They started walking away from the ship in its hilltop clearing, Cass at his side. To Cass, or, more realistically, Balt Donner, such interest was heady as whiffed oxygen. In all his forty-odd years only his mother had ever admired or kissed the homely little Terran. "Perhaps," said Alno wistfully, "I will not long be an Outcast here on your hill, Cass. One of the People, Great Arm, has fallen into a pit. If he dies his Follower will come for me." IF "You do not sound happy, Little Tree Flower," Cass said. "When first we met you were weeping because your Follower had died beneath a fallen tree." "I know. I was banished from the village until once again I overcame my sin of being twinless. And the only other Outcasts were two old men. Never had Followers claimed them again." "Yetlnow when you may be free to return -- ?" "I could no longer visit you, Cass. Outcast and one of the People do not speak together. Rather would I remain Outcast and be near you." Cass' reactions to Alno's words were not typical of Earth men in Bah Donner. And by the time he had decided to venture a friendly embrace, Alno was a dozen paces ahead of him, peering on tiptoe into a papery black nest of skull-shaped material. "Three tiny vutaas!" she chortled happily, and her slim rounded arm disappeared into the hollow nest. The vutaa she held was featherless, colorless and plump as a huge grub, and its ugly stub-billed head was gaping hungrily. Alno daintily bit off the craning neck, spat and crunched greedily at the tender flesh. Cass felt what should have been a stomach turning over. For the moment he was gripped by a sick revulsion against space, the ten years of planet-mapping, the constant growing hatred of his two superiors aboard the Avalon and the alien and quasi-humanoid races they contacted. If he were only back on Earth again at his accustomed technician's job in the testing laboratories of Super Mechs Inc... A lno -- "Little Tree Flower" -- in the tongue of Hald -- screamed and dropped the clean-picked bones of the bird. She spun about and darted toward CaSs. "The serpent!" she screeched, casting quick glances backward. Cass shook himself and stepped past the terrified girl. Whipping from the concealing undergrowth beyond the dangling dark nest came a sinuous, bloodhued, saurian head and scaly neck. White shards of fangs glistened in the yellow moistness of that gaping mouth. A yellowish muscular rope was its tongue. Wisdom dictated that he use the paralysis gun. Instead he opened his big long-fingered hands and waited. He felt that he must pit the might of this giant's body against some tangible foe or go mad. Ernest Lytte fought the cumulative pull of space madness with ever-increasing doses of drugs, and Jeff Carney struggled along with alcohol and forbidden carousing on humanoid planets enroute. But until now the third member of the Avalon had kept his balance near Earth Normal with his work and the several hundred spools of teleview adventure recordings that had been brought along. The neck elongated, swaying nearer. The neck became the body, no larger around than Cass' body but thirty or forty feet in length. #S Stubby, double-jointed legs, tourclawed, studded the ridged serpent's belly. Dozens of them. Cass clamped his hands back of the hideous head. He squeezed, his hands sinking deep. The coils writhed, wrapping about him tautly, even as his hands ripped the reptile's head free. He tore away the entangling coils, glorying in the unhuman Strength and cunning of those robot fingers. This was all his timid dreams of heroism come to life. "Cass! Cass!" Alno's voice reached his ears at last. "The People come! They hunted the serpent. We must go." Cass tore a velvety fern-like growth from the path's edge and wiped the blood from his bronzed flesh. His eyes studied the speararmed People who now pushed into the path's opening. Tall they were, their noseless faces and elongated ears accenting the perfection of their naked bodies. And with them, close to the heels of each seven foot native, trotted the rounded intelligent beasts, the Followers. But two feet in diameter were the Followers, their four pudgy legs and four diminutive upper limbs less than a foot in length. Yet their two shallowly set eyes, pale blue and unwinking, and their slim ears lifting through a tangle of early black hair were all too repellently human to Cass. None of the People or the Followers paid any heed to Cass or the girl. They were Outcasts, taboo, because they had no Followers. They were out of step in the peculiar system of three sexes on Hale And so, to the People and their grotesque doglike companions, they did not exist. A lno and Cass hurried on down the path toward the edge of the swampy lakes rimming the hill. "I still cannot understand it, Alno," Cass muttered. "How two so unlike creatures could be born of the same mother. You are four-limbed -- they are eight-limbed." "Always was it so," the girl smile. "But do not the Outcasts, those without Followers, have young?" "Perhaps." She smiled, invitingly at Cass. "You are strong, Cass. Much stronger than any of the People in my village." Cass was not to be diverted. He wished to know more. "The Followers are born of the same mothers as the People?" Alno's wide violet eyes were puzzled. "Naturally." She frowned at Cass. "You must know that. Sureiy all your villages on Earth have twins who are Followers! Only poor dumb beasts have no twins." "You -- you've been there." Cass was fumbling for words. "When babies were born -- you've helped?" The girl's mouth dropped. She gave a startled little cry and then she was laughing merrily. "You are making fun with me now," she accused, "for of course you know that only Followers care for mothers and their young." Cass grunted something. "Of course. But I wondered whether your customs were not different." IF "How could they be?" Alno's uncomprehending face was pouting. "The People are the same anywhere. If they were not they would not be the People." The path ended where a ridge of moss-grown grayish granite pushed out into the semi-fluid green soup of mingled water and aquatic plants. They sat down on a convenient ledge, the water lapping choppily at the rocks twenty feet below. "A Swimmer!" whispered Alno in an awed voice, her eyes fixed on a spot a hundred feet or more from shore. Cass sighted the Swimmer's graceful golden-green body. In all the eighty hours of their stay on Hald they had seen but two other Swimmers. Lytte and Carney's theory was that these sacred almost-gods were a very rare and intelligent race of amphibians. He caught an impression of golden-flecked blue eyes, wise eyes, in a weirdly unhuman face. Flippers, or blunt limbs, propelled the drifting Swimmer leisurely along. And the mysterious swimming creature was eight-limbed. Of that he was positive. "Another -- and another!" Alno's hushed voice thrilled Cass. She clung to the super mech's muscular arm. Cass watched the weird creatures of the warm seas of Hald until they dove at last beneath the floating green surface and disappeared. One part of his mind was busy with the puzzling alien life of this planet -- but another portion was all-too conscious of the warmth and softness of the female's body at his side. Clumsily he encircled her waist His handsome noseless face came down upon her own, and their lips met. He did not lose the illusion of being Cass. All the sensations of taste, smell, warmth and pain transmitted faithfully through the mentrols. And then memory of the vutaa's headless body, these satne lips bloodied by the bird-thing's raw flesh, came to him. He pushed away, stood up. Suddenly he was just a middleaged, slightly muddled little man controlling a robot, and she was a savage alien. Cass sighed, his feet oddly heavy as he turned to go. "Time I was getting back, Alno." T he forty hours of Haldian daylight were almost ended. Balt Donner was working thoughtfully at a delicate bit of control mechanism, and Jeff Carney had just returned from a routine tour of the great ship's outer storerooms and holds. Always, after a session with the mentrol-controlled robot, Herk, he worked off the nervous strain so. And after that he would get very drunk and shout insults through the intercom system at Ernest Lytte. Usually, that is. Tonight, however, he bypassed the alcohol and the intercom. Instead he went directly to Lytte's cabin. With the intercom system linking Balt Donner to them there was nothing secret about their conversation. "Think I've cracked this third sex setup here on Hald," he boomed. Donner could imagine the dark cowl of bony Ernest Lytte it this interruption. "Record it," Lytle's reedy voice crackled back. "So you can bypass it for your stinking beetle carcasses and edible grasses." Carney's heavy voice was insulting. "Not much! You're listening " mg. "Correction," Lytte said, his voice sharpening. "This para says you're leaving." Donner heard a scuffle of movement, a chuffing soft sound -- the blast of paralysis rays in the cramped confines -- and then the meaty impact of a clenched fist or a gun butt on flesh. He pushed back from the bench, his slim sensitive fingers twitching nervously. "There," Carney's voice was breathless. "You're slow, Lytte. Not enough exercise. And drugs don't help." "I'll kill you," promised Lytte, his voice low and deadly. "As I was saying, Lytte, it's about this Follower setup. The old natives I've contacted have no Followers. And they're old. But in the villages all the humanoids and Followers are young." "Make a recording, Carney," said Lytte tonelessly. "You old space-wracked -- " Carney's harsh laugh crashed out shortly. "I'm hot recording this. But after dark I'm checking up on what I suspect." "I refuse to listen." "Refuse. But you'll listen. Remember those cells I discovered along the swamp edge? Like oversized cocoons." Carney must have slammed Ms fist down on a desk for emphasis at this point. "I'm examining them tonight. This whole setup is crazy. I don't believe the humaniods and the Followers are of common ancestry. A third sex or neuters doesn't explain it," Carney said. "You can't do It, Carney!" exploded Lytte. "We pledged ourselves not to meddle with the political or religious beliefs of the planets we map. Nor to kill or enslave any reasoning entity." "That's why I'm waiting for night. The natives won't be about. And when I have my proof ve can blast off for the dayside again." "It's dangerous, Carney. I warn you not to risk it." "I know. Clean hands for Ernest Lytte. And Rabbitnose Donner listening on the intercom to back you up. But you know you're as curious as I am." "Curious, yes, but there are rules." "Rules!" Carney roared angrily. "I'll ready the equipment and have Donner check over Hercules." Donner heard the big man's feet on the deck. "Hear that, Donner?" the voice roared from the intercom. "Yes sir," agreed the little man almost inaudibly. "I'll check the super mech at once." "And stand by to follow with that girl-faced Casanova mech in case I am in trouble." "Very good, sir," agreed Balt Donner. He started assembling the gauges and tools he would need. IP T hree hours later he was once again lying on the sleeping (date beside the plastic dome shielding the mentrols, and the hood was damped lightly down upon his corded neck and chest. Here he could keep in communication with Jeff Carney, but he could also be following the huge super-mech, Herk, with its fellow robot, Cass. Lytte was sulking in his cabin, his eyes glassy and his senses blanked by an overdose of the drugs so essential in star hopping. For fifteen, perhaps twenty, hours he would be little better than a witless cretin. "Have reached a nest of the cocoons, or cells," came Carney's voice over the intercom. "They're located in a group of water-rooted trees, almost an islet. Twelve of them." Cass came alive in his clamps as Balt Donner pressed the mentrol's activating stud. He passed out through the triple locks. About his tapering slim waist were belted twin paralysis pistols, and over his shoulder projected the short snout of a heavy paralysis rifle. The super-mech crossed the treeless clearing, the dewwet sward softening his footfalls. He could see well, his eyes adjusted to the invisible radiations from his chest torch. An erect running shape blundered toward him. He recognized the slim alien features. Alno! She ran unseeing into his arms. In time Donner remembered to shut off his throat mike as she cried out. "It's Cass," he said. "But where do you go in the darkness?" "It has come!" she cried. "A Follower has summoned me. Great Arm is dead, A ad I am to go to the village." "I am glad for you, Alno." "Then you do not wish me to remain Outcast -- like you?" Her voice was wistful, and yet unsteady. He could sense that her loyalty to her people battled the strange attraction she felt for him. And he was relieved to know she would obey hit desires. "We are of different villages. Of different worlds. Go back to your village." "As you wish, Cass." Her voice was throaty. "But once more, please, the tasting of lips." Cass grimaced into the darkness. Odd how soon the infatuation he had cultivated earlier had vanished. She was warm and pleasant m his arms, but any desire for her had gone. With a smoothness and practiced skill, result of hours spent watching teleview recordings, he drew her close and let her taste his moist synthalips. He was the very epitome of a polished, and bored, Casanova -- not the mousy little Balt Donner of Earth. Carney's heavy voice burned inte his ears as the girl slipped, softly sobbing, away into the darkness. And Donner flicked on the mike. "You there, Donner?" "Yes sir." "Thought you were sleeping." "Not a chance, sir." "Found what I was after. Opened two of the pupae cases. They'ie partially developed Swimmers jut as I expected. Explains the lack of middle-aged and old natives." "Something like the insects of earth," hazarded Donner. "In a way." "All these humanoids turning into amphibious monsters." C arney chuckled. "In a way you're right. But it's not that simple. You forget the Followers." "That's right. What about them? Where do they go?" "They're in the chrysalis. In fact they construct it. And they choose the time for this final metamorphosis." "But just how -- ?" "Can't tell you more at the moment, Donner. See a couple of Swimmers offshore and I want to take a few pictures." Cass started down the hill again. And now he carried the rifle cradled in his arms. He had feared that the cocoons would be guarded, though he had hardly suspected the Swimmers of being interested. "Donner! Get that super-mech down here at once!" Carney's voice was strained and strangely muffled. "Paralyzed the two Swimmers. Then a few dozen more landed on my back. They broke my para with their flippers. Now they're working at... "Hurry, Donner! My lord, there goes a leg! Something shorted. The other leg's gone dead too. They're twisting off my arms. Ripping out my equipment!" The Donner part of Cass groaned. Precious irreplaceable parts! And this was the third of the four supermechs to be damaged or lost since leaving Earth. The first super-mech they had left in a slimepit on that giant yellow planet -- its salvage impossible because of the crushing gravity. And on Xel IV's lone planet, ice-bound and lifeless, a crevasse had swallowed up the second mentrol-controlled mech. Cass came bursting through the trees, out toward the isolated clump of trees now swarming with glistening-hided amphibious life. There was no sign of Herk in that fluid mass. He leveled the paralysis rifle, sweeping it in a broad arc that was half a circle. The Swimmers slid, quivering and twitching, away from the stilt-rooted bases of the trees, and Cass could see the shattered metal and gleaming plastics and quartz of what had but now been a smoothly functioning super mech. Cass groaned as he hastily gathered up the fragments of battered equipment. Even the robot's head was torn away and this he tucked under his left arm. Then, using the half-crushed torso as a container, he salvaged all the visible parts. Back through the trees he raced. Back to the Avalon and its triple locks. And once inside he activated the meteor screen. There would be no blundering of Swimmers upon the spacer this night. H e went down the corridor to his workshop, carrying the battered torso of Herk. And there a haggard-eyed giant, his pink-whiskered cheeks oddly gray, was waiting. He wrenched at the powerful arm of Cass. "It isn't ruined, is it?" IF Cass shook his head. "Hopeless," he rumbled. Carney's eyes were wild. "But with only one super-mech!" "I know. If this last super-mech goes bad, we're through." "We must blast back to Earth. Now! At once!" "Without completing the swing?" Cass asked. "There yet remain seven possible planets to explore and map." "Our present information is sufficient," bellowed Carney, sudden rage restoring his color and vitality. "As you wish -- sir," said Cass, withdrawing from the shop. Gently he put down what remained of Herk. "I'm blasting off at once, Donner. Clamp your boob-faced dummy in his cell and join me in the control room." "Yes, sir." "About these Followers, Donner. You didn't get the right of it. The cocoons are for themselves. The humanoids sealed inside with them are for nourishment during the change!" Carney's laughter brayed after him. And as he strode blindly toward the super-mech storage compartment his mind was reluctantly accepting the truth. For the Swimmers were octopods, even as were the Followers. Carefully the People were bred and cared for -- even as are the c tie and sheep of Earth. Back Follower was assigned to look after and follow his own future food supply. Undoubtedly, too, most of the thankless and heavy tasks were controlled. Then, when the time was ripe for the change, and when the humanoids had reproduced their kind and were grown sleek and fat, the grotesque "twins" paralyzed their charges and spun the cocoons. The metamorphis slowly came about, and eventually the Swimmers split apart the outworn cells and escaped. Leaving behind -- Balt Donner gagged. He waj seeing Alno, happy to be once again given a twin, and then he was seeing her empty husk, drained of all edible tissues and fluids, within the broken shell of the chrysalis. The feet of the super-mech stumbled uncertainly across the cabin. His mental commands were confused. Viciously he drove Cass back into the clips retaining his half-ton body. He locked it there, and then broke contact. He pushed up the mentrol hood, his scuff-clad feet reaching for the deck. Earth was far away and the yean were long. He was sick to death of alien cultures and savage worlds. Only in the depths of space might he find a measure of forgetfulness.      #W IF  Novelette The planet was an enemy at Mankind -- all of it I I I t was not clear to Steve Duke what a Gree ship-of-the-line was doing in this unimportant little eddy of the galactic rim, all alone except for a single exploration ship onetenth her size. Of course, she might be the bait in a trap; therefore, though she was a prize well worth the risking of his Scout squadron, he stayed hidden for the moment, as close as comfort allowed to the big red star of the binary, keeping watch via a series of tiny instrument drones. The exploration ship had evidently visited the single planet of the binary system, a world of moderately Terrestrial type except for being too close to the red star's smaller bluewhite companion. Steve had already noted that there were no radio emanations from the planet, or other hints of technology -- indeed, it was a planet where one would not look for any life. Why, then, had the huge fighting ship been summoned? He watched. Shortly after the exploration ship finished matching courses, the big ship fired a salvo of missiles in the general direction of the blue-white star. Steve could not tell, from the picture his drones no brought back, what kind of missiles Aey were. It was obvious, though, tfiat it was not battle-salvo, because there was no swarm of smaller computer-guided missiles along to fight off a counter-salvo. Neither could it do anything to the blue sun except raise an insignificant short-lived flare. Therefore, it must be aimed at the planet. He considered nulling a larger drone close, but decided it was too risky. Yet, if Gree explored a planet then hastily bombed it -- probably with cobalt bombs, or something equally deadly -- Steve wanted to know what was there. Suddenly deciding, he jabbed at a button on his console and said into his helmet mike. "All ships except number Two. I'm locking you into central control. Battle Condition One. Null m thirty seconds. Two, stay here and collect the rest of the drones, Ihen compile a report to date and null it to Headquarters. If you lose contact with us, leave at once. Otherwise, we'll send message drones once an hour. Out" H e nulled the eleven ships in a group and spaced in ahead of flie Gree salvo, far enough from the Mg ship to avoid direct detection and far enough from the salvo to avoid instrument drones that would be with it Then he got on the command circuit again. "We're foing to have a busy twenty hours or so, in a little while. When those missiles orbit the planet, we're going to shunt them off one by one -- on fee other side of the planet, where ft won't be seen -- and substitute simple warheads of our own, so Greell think the planet's sterilized. We'll have to locate any watchdrones and neutralize them temporarily. We can't be seen, and we can't let a single Gree bomb hit the planet Better get all your computers cleared of everything else; they'll be busy. Gunnery Officers, get your own material ready. Gunnery One, I want a co-ordinated tentative plan right away and a team to keep revising it as we get more data. Any questions?" There were only a few technical questions. Then the CO of Scout Three dared the question that was in everyone's mind. "What are we going to do when we finish with the bombs, Colonel?" "When -- and if -- we finish with them, I'll take a small team down and see what's got Gree so scared." There were times during the operation when Steve thought he was failing, and once he was mere seconds from death; but eventually all the deadly bombs were shunted away from the planet, and detonations of his own produced convincing clouds in the atmosphere. He sent the squadron, except for his flagship, into null; in case the Gree leviathan hadn't been fooled after all. As soon as he could, he'd have himself set down on the planet and send the flagship away too -- the sooner the better -- but before that he had to scout briefly from space. The planet had a diameter close to twelve thousand miles and a density, compared to water, of a little over three point nine, which meant a comfortable surface gravity. With such a total mass and considering the amount of dispersed gas (especially hydrogen and helium) in the neighborhood of the binary, there might have been a very dense atmosphere, but it only computed to a little over twenty pounds per square inch at the surface. It didn't take long to realize why. This planet kept one face always turned to the blue-white sun. The temperature at meridian on that side was something over two-hundred degrees Centigrade, which meant that a lot of air molecules must reach escape velocity. As a matter of fact, he realized, if it hadn't been for the huge red companion star, there wouldn't be any atmosphere at all, to speak of. What didn't boil away on the hot side would be frozen on the dark side. As it was, the latter hemisphere would only be dark, and space-cold or nearly so, for part of the year, when the orbit around the blue star faced it away from the red one. At the moment about a third of the off side was lit with a mild reddish light, and obviously was warm since unfrozen seas and lakes could be seen. It was a beautiful world, seen from space. An impossible one, though, for carbon-based life. Or was it? There seemed to be a band, the twilight of the blue star's fierce glare, that was neither baked nor frozen -- even where the red star's gentle illumination did not fall. Steve frowned at the viewscreen. It wasn't only that the blue sun's rays went in slantingly through the deep atmosphere, but a narrow, very high wall of clouds along the bright edge of the twilight zone cast long semi-shadows, ending in an actual rainbow upon the ground. The whole band was five hundred or a thousand miles wide, depending upon where one set the arbitrary limits. It seemed to him that there was more green in it than there should be. He called his Med Officer, the nearest thing he had to a biologist. "Did we read for chlorophyll?" "Why, no sir. I thought it was obvious that -- " "So did I; but I think we'd better check." However, even before the spectrograms confirmed it, Steve was sure. The twilight band was vegetated. II H e decided to take with him only two B'lant crewmen; a mature one named Vrebl, who'd been with him on several missions, and a young one named Zaanj who had the standard training, if no experience. The ship deposited the three of them on a large rock in a field of grass that grew higher than a man's head, just over a ridge from where the Gree team had camped. The chill air had a faint musky smell. No large animals had been seen from the ship, but here and there the grass waved with hidden movements. On a saberlike grassblade ten feet away and only a little below eye level, an insect the size of Steve's thumb perched on six fat legs, and, he was sure, stared back at him out of bulging faceted eyes. It looked like a giant bumblebee that had lost its wings. Then, ir suddenly, the fat legs exploded with hairs or tiny feathers and became wings which blurred into motion. The thing droned away, very slowly and in a straight line, like a mechanical toy on a stretched wire. Here and there above the grass, other such bugs floated in the same way. Several hundred yards away something flapped along on slow rigid wings, like a monstrous moth. It must have had a six-foot wingspread. It seemed to be catching the two-inch bugs and eating them on the fly. Along one horizon -- technically it had to be called the west, but only because of their position relative to the planet's north pole -- was the wall of cloud that hid the blue sun; murky at the horizon, luminous farther up, with a bright fringe at the top that hinted at a spectrum. That one brightness only accentuated the gray bloom that surrounded Steve and the two B'lant. Above the bright fringe the sky was dirty blue. As the eye arched overhead, the blue became darker until, in the 'east' where no sun would ever rise, it was black and the stars stood out. Northward and a little east, a faint reddish glow above the ridge revealed the direction of the red sun. Steve told his two companions, "We'll have a look at the Gree campsite first, then we'll head north. There are some mountains there, and their other slopes will be lit by the red sun. We ought to be more comfortable there. A ways beyond is the ocean, where we'll wait for the ship. It'll be back in five hundred hours unless we call it back sooner." H e began allocating supplies and equipment to be carried. Some of the more vital things, such as the small message drones that were the only way to contact the squadron, he assigned to Zaanj, who because of his inexperience would walk second. Steve would lead the way, even though he'd chosen B'lant partly because their thick gray skins would withstand the swordlike grass better than any other 'humanoids'. It would be up to Vrebl to keep a watch to the rear. It was depressing in the grass, totally cut off from everything but the dismal sky overhead. Steve pushed on grimly, forcing a way by holding his rifle at a slant ahead of him, and was very glad when they crossed the top of the ridge and found themselves in the open. The wide shallow ravine below them was in even deeper gloom. This slope, and the opposite one, were rocky, with only scattered patches of grass. At the bottom a small creek found a crooked way among flat slabs that looked like weathered lava flows. He helped Vrebl and Zaanj set up electronic sentries, then unslung his field glasses. The campsite, on a level spot beyond the creek, was marked by a triangle of fire-blackened stones and some empty food containers. That the Gree team had left without policing up attested to its haste. He couldn't tell, in the uncertain light, where the ship had parked. They broke out field rations, ate, and made themselves as comfortable as possible. Nothing moved in the ravine for a couple of hours. Then there was a stir in a dump of grass halfway up the opposite slope. Steve focussed on the spot. Something dark and bulky moved into the open and came down the incline, slowly and haltingly. Once it went flat for three or four minutes, then heaved itself up and continued. He couldn't make out its exact shape, but it seemed to move on four stumpy legs. One of the giant moths came gliding over the ridge, circled the thing a few times, and flapped away, without any sign of reaction from the beast. The thing reached the campsite and nosed around very deliberately among the fire stones and empty containers. Presently it moved downstream and seemed to be digging at the edge of a small patch of grass. S teve abruptly stowed the glasses, got to his feet and told Vrebl, "Stay here and watch. Get on the radio if anything tries to sneak up on us." To Zaanj he said, "Come with me. Well cover each other. I want a close look, then I want to it, if possible." He scuttled alone to the nearest clump of grass, scouted it quickly then motioned Zaanj to him. They worked their way in such relays to the stream below the animal, waded across, and approached the clump of grass carefully. Steve set his rifle for the anesthetic darts, made sure Zaanj did likewise, then motioned the young B'lant around the other side of the clump. When Steve got where he could see the animal, he stopped, with a feeling almost of nausea. It was turned partly away from him, scraping slowly and awkwardly at the ground with one stubby forepaw. He should have been able to see its head from this angle, but couldn't. The hind legs were stumpy too, with bulbous clumsy feet. But it was the thing's pelt, if it could be called one, that revolted Steve. It looked like a huge and obscenely filthy and moth-eaten fur coat. Dried grass clung to it as if the creature had wallowed in glue then rolled in a haystack. There were also packed masses of the large bugs, dead and dismembered, and scraps of what looked like rotten leather. The thing stopped pawing and stood, flanks aheave with its loud rasping breath. Then, as if under mindless compulsion, it resumed the slow pawing. Zaanj stepped into sight beyond the creature, froze, and let out a shocked sound. The thing reared up, clumsily, whirled toward Steve, saw him too, and lurched away from both of them. It struggled to its hind legs, staggered, caught its balance. It ran up the slope, awkwardly but with fair speed. Its stride was almost humanoid, or like a humanoid hobbled. Now Steve saw there was a head, or at least a formless bulge between hulking shoulders. He could hear its hoarse gasping. He put an anesthetic dart into it and saw it jerk; then, more for his own state of mind than because he thought it necessary, another. He glanced at Zaanj. The normally phlegmatic blunt face was twisted in IP horror. Zaanj's rifle hung forgotten in one hand. Steve found himself grinning. "Come on. It won't get far." H e was wrong. The thing labored badly near the top of the slope, but reached it and pushed into the grass. When they reached the spot Steve held up a hand for silence. He could hear the beast deep in the grass, panting, but still going on. There were other furtive rustlings in the grass. He didn't think he wanted to pursue. He led the way back down the slope, meanwhile calling Vrebl on the radio, "Gather up the stuff and come on over. Stay in the open where we can cover you." By the time the older B'lant joined them, they were standing where the animal had dug, staring down. There was only a small area of plastic exposed, but Steve knew what they'd find, and he was right. It was a Gree slave, neither B'lant nor human, buried in his uniform and a limp plastic spacesuit. The face was horribly battered or eaten, and dark fragments clung to it, as if a coating of something like black wax or hard rubber had been scraped off. Steve turned away. "Let's find some rocks to pile over him, then we'd better get away from here." He didn't say so, but he had a strong hunch that before the humanoid in the grave had been cleaned off he'd looked like the creature they'd chased. He had an impulse to call a ship back at once. There was the risk of Gree ships lurking about, and he had confidence in himself and the two B'lant armed with rifles that could shoot, besides the darts, explosive bullets or laser beams. He decided not to call a ship. He'd seen from the air that the grassfield ended a few miles upstream. He worried vaguely that they couldn't get far before full darkness. Then he felt foolish and angry with himself. There wasn't any full darkness. He led them up the ravine, assigning Vrebl to watch behind. Ill F our hours took them ten miles upstream and perhaps three thousand feet higher. It was damper up here, and the rock tablelands were green and slippery with moss. The two-inch bugs were everywhere. Once Steve brought up suddenly and grunted a warning. Something the size of a large dog moved toward them. When it was closer he saw that it was a giant insect, with an ovoid body and six closely bunched stiltlike legs that moved in an odd mincing gait. A head the size of his two fists doubled together, with two great faceted eyes and several stubby antennae, swivelled from side  to side like a turret, mounted in the forward end of the body without a neck. At the other end was a three-foot whiplike tail that the thing carried over its back, like a scorpion's sting. Steve was about to shoot when it saw them and stopped. The mincing stride reversed and it backed away without turning, then stopped and was motionless for several minutes. Finally it turned with little prancing steps and moved to the side. Suddenly the legs flashed into motion and two of them thrust out forward to seize one of the two-inch bugs and haul it, feathery legs droning, to a pair of small mandibles on the head. Zaanj let out his breath and raised his rifle. Steve put out a restraining hand. "Never fire an unnecessary shot on a strange world." They found a flat area big enough so nothing could creep up on them, and made camp. From here they could see the unimpressive mountains to the north, with the reddish glow above them. Steve was by no means through with the Gree campsite, but it would be imprudent to stay near it just now. Later, if things went well, he'd come back with a larger, better equipped team. Right now he wanted to get out of this clammy twilight and to the other side of the mountains. Vrebl evidently followed his gaze and guessed his thoughts. "I hope there is game. Zis zings we see so far is not tempting." "No," Steve agreed. He suppressed a grin. It was a standing joke, if not strictly true, that a B'lant would eat anything. He idly watched one of the stilt-legged giant insects munch on a bug, warning away with its tail a monster moth that flapped around it. "At least," he said, "we'll take time now to heat some water and dump some soup powder into it" IF T hey traveled north, staying well above the grasslands, for fifty hours, with short stops. Then, within a few miles of the mountains, they found the way barred by a great rift. It looked about two miles wide and a thousand feet deep. No doubt it was some ancient rupture of the crust and related to the mountains, but it was filled in now with a level floor, and the grass had spread into it solidly except for the steep sides and the taluses at their bottoms. It looked as if it might reach a long way in either direction, so if they wanted to get to the mountains, they'd have to cross it. Once more, Steve found himself thinking in terms of day and night. Annoyed, he jerked out the binoculars. The way the grass rippled showed that a river of air moved along the rift, from the direction of the grasslands toward the cloud band on his left. He puzzled that out. The floor of the rift must slope slightly toward the left, even against the general rise of the land; and the air in the rift must be denser -- possibly this planet's peculiar seasons. There were giant moths down there, and stirrings in the grass that were not made by the moving air. He decided to climb down, then reconnoiter before pushing into the grass. He spied out a clear spot at the edge, and a way down to it. "Let's go." The air was dried and warmer at the bottom, and heady, and instruments showed a higher percentage of oxygen. The insect life was profuse. He set up sound amplifiers and listened to the rustles in the grass. They seemed to move in random directions. He looked at the B'lant to see what shape they were in, and said, "Let's get an hour's nap apiece, one at a time." When they'd had that, and there was still no sign of trouble, he said, "Well, we'd better get it. over with. Set the guns on laser. If anything actually attacks, burn it down quick then cut a circle around us in case there are more." Vrebl said, "Should I not go first? My skin -- " Steve shook his head. The B'lant were very reliable, once they'd learned something, but human reflexes were a little faster; and besides... He led off. He'd already learned, during the earlier trip in the grass, that the thing to do was to use his feet to bend stalks forward ahead of him, more or less breaking the way. Still, it was tedious going. H e timed his first hundred steps. At this rate, it would take them about an hour and a half to cross, which wasn't a pleasant prospect. The feeling of oppression returned. In about ten minutes he ran into a matted wall of grass that didn't yield. He muttered an oath as a blade slide along the back of his hand, giving him about the twentieth cut. He tried to go around the obstruction, thinking it was just a thick clump, and found it was actually a straight long barrier, stretching longitudinally in the rift. He stood perfectly still for a few molly ments, listening. There were no unusual sounds. He fished in his pockets for a small light and examined the barrier. The stalks were aot just matted; they were interwoven in a way that was surely artificial. He glanced at Vrcbl and Zaanj to see if they realized it too. They did. He said softly, "Let's get ourselves a little breathing room." He held the rifle low and triggered it, swung it in an arc, carefully avoiding the fence. Grass toppled upon him. The B'lant got the idea and helped him complete the arc and trample the cut stalks, until they had a clear half circle of about twenty-foot radius. It felt good. Carefully, he parted the thin stand of grass he'd left along the harrier and studied the latter more closely. The stalks were not only interwoven; where they crossed, little bridges had grown between them to hold them in place. The barrier was eight or ten stalks thick. No wonder it didn't yield easily. It would be simple to burn through it, r even hack a way with a knife, but he wasn't going to do either hastily. That might be what the Gree explorers had done. On the other hand, they might have followed along a similar fence to their doom. Could there be such a thing as sentient grass? If so, he'd just slaughtered some thousands of individuals. If they were individuals. But there'd been no sign of resistance or awareness. He bent and tugged at a stump until it came up. It had so ordinary, discrete root system, and when he sliced off the burnt end it oozed a light colorless liquid, as any grass might. H e turned back to the fence. He noticed now that the tiny bridges joining the Interwoven stalks were withered and dry, though the stalks were green. He found a few of the bridges ruptured, letting the stalks break away and in a few cases untangle themselves. He used a magnifying glass to examine the stalks, and the blades, for any sign of special organs. It was just big grass. He said, "Let's follow along this a ways to see if it ends or turns. At least, it protects us on one side." It wasn't until they'd gone a hundred yards or so that he realized he'd instinctively turned left, away from the grassfields. A half hour brought no change in the fence. He called a halt and turned on the sound amplifier to make sure there were no unusual rustlings around them. Then he gave his companions a look to alert them, triggered his rifle and cut a doorway through the fence. On the other side, he led on for about twenty yards, then stopped to listen again. In the next hour they found over a dozen of the fences. Some were very fresh -- that is, the bridges were not withered -- and some were so old they'd almost completely vanished. Sometimes dead stalks were held upright, still tangled with live ones, while new ones pushed up through the tangle. After the first two, Steve cut through them without hesitation. He was more interested in getting across the rift fast than in staying to ponder. They must have been threefourths of the way across when he ensed some change in the pattern of sounds. He crouched, listening. Something was approaching from ahead. He snapped, "Burn a clearing!" and slashed right and left with his own rifle. There was a grating sound somewhere close, and a thrashing. Grass collapsed upon him. He threw it off, did a hasty dance to get it trampled down. The B'lant were struggling similarly, Zaanj almost with hysteria, which was unusual for his race. Steve got clear of the last stalks and gestured toward the center of the clearing. "Back to back!" The rustlings had stopped, and the silence was worse. At the edge of their clearing, something bulky stirred feebly beneath fallen grass. Steve took four steps forward and poked the grass aside with his rifle. One of the stilt-legged things lay there, mortally burned. Its scorched stench mingled with the punky smell of burnt grass. Then he saw that the thing was swaddled in grass the rifles had never cut. Dried stalks were woven around its body and around each of the six legs, and a thick twisted grass rope circled like a collar where its neck should have been. The head was encased in a crude woven basket that left only patches of the huge eyes exposed. The stinger-tail was free, moving feebly. Steve ended its misery and retreated to his companions. They waited. The various rustlings resumed, then the thing he'd heard in front came on again. It mumbled now, almost m human speech. Zaanj whirled toward the sound, and Steve snapped at him, "Hold your fire!" IV A horrible caricature of a man pushed the grass aside and stood looking at them vaguely with dull bloodshot eyes. Steve couldn't tell what race he was because he was encased in woven grass much as the insect was, except that his head was buried in a mound of dead two-inch bugs. The eyes peered out through small tunnels. One of the arms lifted in an inhuman gesture, fell again. A black gap of a mouth split open in the horrible mass and an incomprehensive mumble came out. Steve fought down the urge to trigger his rifle, and demanded in English, which all Gree slaves spoke more or less, "Can you understand me?" The creature obviously r half understood. More mumbling emerged from its mouth. Then, one word came clear. "Gr -- Gree?" Steve hesitated. To say anything against Gree to a Gree slave was like talking to the wind, but this thing, perhaps, no longer had the mind of a Gree slave. Steve said slowly and distinctly, "Gree abandoned you. Gree wants to kill this planet. We stopped him. Do you understand?" The eyes strayed blankly, struggled back to Steve. Then they dropped to the rifle. "Kill?" the creature said absently. Steve dropped the muzzle toward tlf the ground. "No," he said, pointing to himself, "I won't kill you. I won't hurt you. Gree tried to kill vou." From the wavering of the eyes, it was clear the thing was struggling with the thought. There was none of the instinctive disbelief a Gree slave ought to show. Finally the eyes came back to Steve's face. "Gree... kill." Suddenly, the encrusted head began to nod laboriously. "Yes. Gree kill. You... not Gree..." An exhausted sigh, and the eyes went dull again. Steve waited a moment, but there were only vague mutters and small meaningless motions. He said, "Are you hungry?" That brought a flicker of intelligence. "Hu-hungry?" A hand came up, unsteadily. The fingers plucked slowly, absently, at a dead insect and crammed it into the mouth. The mouth chewed slowly, mechanically. There was a movement of swallowing, then an idiot laugh. The eyes were vague again. Steve said, "We won't hurt you. We will help you." Intelligence fought back into the bloodshot eyes, as if from another universe. They squeezed shut with the effort of speech. "You... not enemy..." The thing took an aimless step forward. Z aanj mouthed an hysterical sound and swept his rifle up. Steve batted at it, and the beam sizzled into the ground at the creature's feet. The creature leaped and lunged sideways into the grass, scrabbling to escape. Zaanj let go of the rifle and, mewling mindlessly, whirled to plunge into the grass on the opposite side. Steve shouted after him. Vrebl spun to follow, and Steve seized his arm. "Don 't get separated from me!" As they raced after Zaanj, Steve tossed a look behind and saw that the creature had vanished. They shouted for Zaanj, and called on the radio, and, when they knew they'd lost him, stood still and used the sound prck-ups. There were rustlings, many of them, and all seemed to be down the rift now and moving away, fast. They fought in that direction for a while until they had to admit they were hopelessly outdistanced. Vrebel stopped and turned, facing Steve silently. Steve said, "We won't find him this way. Let's get clear. If he's all right he'll come to his senses eventually, and use his radio." He headed back toward the clearing, as well as he could judge. "We've got to pick up his rifle." They found the clearing without much trouble. The rifle and the dead stilt-insect were still there. Steve picked up the rifle and, reluctantly, nodded to Vrebl to break trail. When they got clear Steve chose a spot part way up the side of the rift and they climbed as fast as they could. He stood a minute, fighting for breath, then, his hands clumsy with exhaustion, uncased the binoculars. He located an area of ripples, a mile or more down the rift, as if a small army were fleeing through the grass. He tried the radio again, without IF response. He swept the glasses around once more, then slowly put them away. "I think," he said, "we'll have to assume he's been captured. God knows by what. But it looks as if they're going down the rift. I think we'd better climb up and go along the rim; it'll be faster." As Vrebl looked reluctant, he added, "If he uses the radio, we'll still hear him." I t took over two hours to catch up with the army of ripples. They paralleled it, stopping when it stopped. Vrebl didn't protest, though obviously he wasn't sure they were doing the right thing. For that matter, Steve wasn't sure either; he was merely making the best gamble he could. However, after nearly seven hours, they had a bit of luck. There was an open pool of water near the far side, where a small creek came down; and, as they rested, Steve turned his glasses on the pool. There were small creatures of some sort at the edge of the water. Then he went tense. Two manlike figures waded into the water, which was only up to their calves, and slumped down into it, rolling and splashing and gulping great draughts like children on a hot day. One of them, Steve thought, was the afflicted Gree slave they'd talked to. The other, though woven grass partially covered him, might be Zaanj. He handed the binoculars to Vrebl. Vrebl looked a long time, then handed back the glasses. "Yes. It k Zaanj." "Well," Steve said, "we could try to rescue him. But it's more important for us to stay alive and sane until rendezvous time. We may not get to the ocean, but the ship'll make a pass this way and we'll reach her by radio. And I want to know where that bunch is headed. There's something significant about this rift." Vrebl thought it over, slowly. "Yes," he agreed finally, "zat is right. But is it not worz while to call ze ships early so we can rescue Zaanj?" Steve gave him an annoyed look. "I'm not all that cold-blooded. If you'll remember, Zaanj was carrying all the message drones." The land continued to slope up, and the floor of the rift continued to get lower. Steve left the edge when the going was faster away from it, returning every few miles to make sure the hidden army was still moving. The mountains loomed only a few miles to the north, so close the red sun's glow was completely hidden. Ahead, the cloud band towered incredibly, and its dark base seemed very close. The drizzles were heavier and more frequent here; the moss thicker. Still the movement in the rift went on. Steve was sometimes tempted to climb down, to get into the warmth and dryness again. He also kept thinking what it would be like to cross the mountains, feel the luxury of that red sun. It would be easy enough to rationalize that the right thing to do was to abandon Zaanj; keep the rendezvous with the ship. But -- he admitted it to himself -- the thing that really kept him going was curiosity about the rift. Then the drizzles became constant, and they were entering the cloud band itself. Sometimes the floor of the rift was obscured, and he led Vreb) along as fast as their exhausted bodies would take them, to find a clear spot and lie watching until the mysterious army caught up. It was very hard to keep track of now, even when the mist was thin, because of the deep gloom here under the clouds. There was no change for perhaps twenty-five miles more, then the clouds -- heavy mist now, that surrounded them except for a clear updraft out of the rift -- began to brighten. They couldn't go much farther without breaking out into the deadly rays of the blue sun. Then, the next time he looked into the rift, he found that it had changed. V I nstead of a smooth grassfield, there was a tangled steaming writhing jungle, slashed by weedchoked lagoons. The coiling tentacles that were so startling at first were only giant plant tendrils groping for holds on the tallest trees. Slug-like things -- they must be a foot long,or more -- crawled on the tendrils. Huge segmented worms undulated like eels through the thickgrown water, or looped themselves along limbs or tendrils. The giant moths were everywhere. He noticed that they, and the worms, carefully avoided the sluglike things, though the latter had no apparent means of defense. A smell of rot and fermentation rose in the updraft. He said, "I think we'd better backtrack a ways." It was only two miles or so back to where the swamp was invaded by long fingers of dry, grass-covered ground. Billows of mist showed how abrupt the transition actually was. He swept the binoculars up the rift There was movement in the grass, but he couldn't tell whether the bunch they'd been following was here yet. He studied the slope below him. The talus was high here, well above the grass. "I think we'd better go part way down, so we can see better." He chose a place that was high enough for a good angle of view, and far enough from the swamp so they couldn't smell it. They made camp and broke out rations. As he kept watch on the grass, Steve grew discouraged. The breezes were so broken here, and thers were so many random movements in the grass, as well as swarms of bugs, plus giant moths, that ho couldn't be sure of anything. He tensed as he saw a dark roughly globular thing bobbing along the surface of the grass, a little way up the rift and near this side. When it got closer he could see that it was not something's head, but a detached mass, a foot or more through, supported and moved along by stalks of grass that bent and gathered themselves beneath it. It progressed at what he judged to be lest than a mile an hour. Behind it. It left a visible trail which, he wee sure, would be one of the fences. He looked elsewhere. There were several such blobs in sight, all moving toward the swamp. He turned his glasses back to the close one. The surface was definitely grainy; and without actually seeing so, he told Vrebl, "I'll bet you half my soup powder that that's a ball of dead bugs." He handed over the glasses. Vrebl looked, then handed the glasses back. "Yes. I will not bet." The weird progress continued, swerved out onto one of the grassy fingers of land. Near the end of it, there was a halt and a period when the grass moved obscurely below the object. Then the ball shot up suddenly as if from a catapult, arched out and over, and plopped into the swamp. Steve saw water splash. Vrebl said, "Do you zink somezing is getting rid of garbage?" "No. I think something just deposited an egg. It attracted the bugs somehow, maybe by forcing juice out of the grass, killed them and formed them into a ball, with its egg inside." He put the glasses away and got slowly to his feet. "If something takes eggs to the swamp, whatever hatches will go back to the grass; and that's the time to see it. Let's get down there." O ne of the big slugs labored from the swamp, crawling where it could, wiggling painfully through the weed-choked water where it had to. It reached the finger of land where Steve and Vrebl were waiting, humped itself urgently to the edge of the grass and squeezed itself in among the stalks, where it slumped as if exhausted. After a while it stirred again. Pseudopods poked slowly from it and crawled up the nearer grass stalks. Others grew long and slim and felt about until each attached itself to a stalk. There must have been nearly a hundred, finally. The slug-body was shrunken and empty, and were already beginning to dry out. A trembling seized the stalks. They began to writhe like worms, near the bases at first, then higher until even the blades came alive. They interlaced themselves, those on the side away from the swamp searching farther, like blind snakes, thrusting themselves against new stalks, weaving in and out. Steve, heedless of danger, ran close and saw the controlled stalks grow tiny bridges to the new ones. The process grew faster and more confident, and he was reminded of a new-born colt finding its legs. Always, there were about a hundred stalks moving, but that hundred progressed away from the swamp, leaving behind the inert interwoven fence. Ten feet from the swamp, the live group was moving steadily at least two miles per hour. Steve thought of rushing into the grass ahead of the thing, burning a swath around it to isolate it and see what it would do. But that was an experiment that could wait for a subsequent landing. He tugged at the inert structure left behind. A few stalks pulled loose, but there was no reaction. This, then, was the thing that could not only live in grass, but could somehow take over animals. No wonder the humanoid they'd talked to didn't have the mind of a Gree slave; and no wonder Zaanj had never used his radio. Steve remembered the giant insect, clothed or shackled in grass. Did they just use animals as steeds, to move where grass didn't grow? Or did they use them for special purposes such as fighting? Zaanj didn't matter now. Even the message drones could be abandoned. The thing to do was to get to safety; make sure he and Vrebl stayed free until the ship arrived. He looked at his chronometer. They had time to get to the summit of the mountains, at least, where they'd have line-of-sight contact with the rendezvous spot. The radios had plenty of range. But there might be peril in the mountains. Wasn't it wiser to camp up on the edge of the rift, in an environment they'd already come to know? In any case, the first thing to do was to get out of the rift. He jerked his head to Vrebl. They made camp on a high spot of the rim, near the edge, where they could keep watch on the rift as well as on the mossy tablelands. Steve looked longingly toward the mountains. In a few hours, perhaps, he'd decide to leave the rift. Meanwhile, they needed rest. Then, a few hours later, he awoke from a nap to find that Vrebl had gone. IF VI T he B'lant had left all three rifles and most of the rations, and all the instruments except his own radio. Steve immediately called, and got no answer. He didn't have to look for a trail to know where Vrebl had gone. He got out the glasses and trained them on the grass below him. A quarter-mile out, the grasses stirred in a steady way that a walking man might produce. He laid a tentative hand on his rifle. He could put an explosive bullet close enough to kill the B'lant, and the breach of discipline justified it. That he liked Vrebl pretty final; maybe he could reserve the option for a while, and sec what happened. At the worst, he could evade Vrebl -- and Zaanj, if they joined forces -- until the ship came. And Vrebl deserved some consideration for leaving the rifles, and the other things. It wasn't just the breach of discipline, of course. Vrebl might be taken over by the grass-dwellers, and they might be able to absorb, somehow, what was stored in his brain. Vrebl knew quite a lot. Steve's superiors might decide, as Gree had, to sterilize the planet. He pushed such thoughts from his mind. His own duty was to stay alive and sane until the ship arrived. Actually, he should be on his way now, to some hiding place. Still he stood watching the movement in the grass. Suddenly, Vrebl was on the radio. "Please do not go away yet" Steve pushed the transmit button and said drily, "You know, you're a pretty easy target." "Yes, Colonel. And not only for you." The voice was calm. Steve said coldly, "I suppose you're looking for Zaanj." "He is of my -- clan is not ze right word." "I appreciate that. But what about your duty?" "I do not zink I can become a zret to you, Colonel. Wiz all ze rifles you need not worry." "Maybe so; maybe not. There may be things on this planet we haven't met. Your duty was to stay with me so we could protect each other." "Zat was part of ze gamble. If I am lucky, you will have ze message drones soon. I am looking for zem too, Colonel." S teve grunted. That hadn't occurred to him as Vrebl's motive. "All right. As long as you've taken this upon yourself, I'll spot for you. There are some movements in the grass about twenty-five yards tn your left as you face toward me. Also, a ways behind you, some of the grass-users were moving along a fence, in tandem. They've stopped, so I think they may hear you." "Zank you, Colonel. Good-by for ze moment." Steve tried hard to follow VrebPs progress, but he couldn't hold the glasses entirely steady, and there were other stirrings to watch. He said on the radio, "I've lost you. Shake the grass so I can pick you up." #f There was no answer. Steve opened his mouth to speak sharply, then hesitated. Vrebl might not dare to talk to him, nor even have his receiver turned on. He swept the glasses back and forth, but there was no movement such as he'd been following, though there were many gentler ones. Finally he lowered the glasses in despair. rinpe passed. He spoke into the radio  periodically, without response. He gpt up and paced, wondering why he hadn't had the presence to call a ship back when he first encountered the horribly afflicted thing at the campsite. At least, he could have sent a message. By not doing so, he'd lost one crewman, and probably two. He found it hard to understand what Vrebl was doing. To risk one's life, with a fair fighting chance, was one thing; but this He glanced at his chronometer. Vrebl had been gone two hours, at least. What was he doing -- crisscrossing back and forth in a search pattern? There was a ludicrous area to cover. Three more hours passed, then the radio suddenly blurted, "I have found him, Colonel, and we have ze drones. We are coming back." H e watched the two figures emerge from the grass a full mile up the rift and plod down this side, at the foot of the talus. Zaanj walked with his head down, stumbling now and then. Steve moved the equipment back from the edge of the cliff, hid two of the rifles, and chose his waiting spot. When they came into sight at the edge he was twenty yards from them, rifle steady. "Stand right there," he ordered bleakly. Zaanj was naked and no longer had grass woven around him. Neither were there any dead bugs stuck to him, and there were no marks on his hairless gray hide except a few at the neck. His face was swollen, though, and his eyes were not quite right. His arms hung limp. Vrebl had the message drones, and some other stuff Zaanj had been carrying, clipped to two belts around his waist. Carefully, he unfastened the drones one by one and dropped them on a soft area of moss. "I zink you should send a message at once, Colonel. But first I want you to know zat you have no enemies on zis planet." Steve eyed him closely, then gestured with the rifle. "Move over there." When they complied he went to the drones, picked one up and worked at its protective covering with one hand. He did not relax his watch either on Vrebl and Zaanj nor in other directions. "How do you know that, Vrebl?" "I am not Vrebl. He is sleeping." The eyes met Steve's calmly, with a little smile. "I am just using ze body, and ze brain." Steve was not surprised. "If that's so, why aren't you like him?" He nodded toward Zaanj. "Or like the others?" "Because Vrebl offered himself voluntarily, and because we have learned finally how to move into ze humanoid body wizout damaging IF ze brain. Before, we do it all wrong. Zat was what made ze horrible zings you saw. When we catch ze one named Zaanj, we almost do right, but we damage ze brain a Bttle. I zink he will get well. We ire sorry about zat, Colonel, but after all zis is our planet, and... "Which I should have let Gree fterilize," Steve said flatly. "Is there any reason I shouldn't burn the two of you down right now?" #XJo reason," Vrebl's voice said calmly, "except zat we are friendly. You can count ze message drones. Zey are all zere. I could have sent a false message, to tell ze ship you are dead and it should pick me up somewhere else. Zere is no reason we should lie to you, Colonel. We are no zret to your kind. We are not comfortable in zes bodies -- even zo ze brains and ze eyes are wonderful; and ze inside bones and ze muscles... I know all zat Vrebl knew, and I have talk wiz ozzers of my kind. We know Gree will return to destroy us. We know your side, ze Birds of Effogus, will be friends. Zerefore, to save my own planet I want to go wiz you, as an ambassador to ze Birds. I am telling you everyzing, Colonel. I do not zink you will doubt." Steve got the drone free, pressed its recorder button and spoke into the receiver tersely but at length, giving the facts that had to be given, ordering that a transcript be sent immediately to Headquarters and that the whole squadron except two sentries come to pick him up at once. He activated the drone, laid it on the ground, and stepped back. With a loud implosion, it nulled away. Without relaxing, he looked quickly around him to make sure nothing was sneaking in. Then he answered Vrebl, or what had been Vrebl. '# doubt everything. But the Birds will make the decision. You'll both go back in sealed compartments, under heavy guard. So will I. We'll stand right here, and be picked up in a few minutes." He sighed. If it were left to him, he thought he might sterilize the planet, after a little study. On the other hand, possibly the entities would become friends and allies of the Birds, though he personally wasn't eager for much contact with them. Anyway, he thought, there was one thing in their favor. Gree had wanted to destroy them; and, as he himself had once remarked, it was always good to disagree with Gree. If you've missed any copies of Galaxy , IF or Worlds of Tomorrow from # to date our Back Number Department has a limited supply available at #c each, any three issues for #, regardless of original cover price. Copies sent postpaid anywhere in U.S. or Canada. Sorry, no copies before # at present available. Send dates and title of Issue you wish with remittance te Galaxy Publishing Corp., #I Hudson Street, New York City #. The Place Where Readers And Editor Meet... Dear Editor: I was disappointed when I received my March If. Skylark Du Quesne delayed another two months? Every month for the past year l have torn into each new If to see if there was any news on it. I have been going crazy trying to figure how even Doc Smith could write a sequel to Skylark of Valer on. I sincerely hope June is the month. Now for the bright side of things. After little thought and deliberation (who needed it here?) I nominated If for the Hugo for #. For short stories another magazine had a slight edge on If, but for novels there was no comparison. For # so far I have not yet seen any novels and only one short story worthy of a Hugo: The Replicators, by A. E. Van Vogt. Notice, # again! Authors you have now who I wish to see more of are Van Vogt, Schmitz, Young, Russell and especially Keith Laumer. Two more whose short stories have not graced your pages recently are Hal Clement and Robert Sheckley (he is good) . These are the best shortstory writers. The rest are good, but rarely outstanding. As usual Cordwainer Smiths novel was a lemon. I think that it is the worst to appear in years. Starchild was a great disappointment. have previously been exceptionally good, whether in collaboration or alone. But that??? On serials, I don't particularly like to wait one, two or three months to finish a story. However I do have a significant preference for novel-length stories. I think novels are the backbone of a sf magazine, and the shorts are an added luxury. So please, a serial in each issue, the longer the better. (About # words.) My preference for novels got If my Hugo nomination. Lettercol: I would like a two to five page letter column in each issue of each magazine, discussing the science fiction in the magazine. Not the editorial or the articles. Story ratings: This is something you are missing that would improve the magazines tremendously. Less than a third of a page per issue. Book reviews: Here I draw the Hne. One book review in Galaxy is okay, but please don't expand to If or Worlds of Tomorrow. Editorials : A one or two page editorial on sf would be appropriate. Either on fandom or on authors or on stories. But please, none on Hyperinfracanifilia and the like. In teresting, but not for a sf magazine. -- Martin F. Massoglia II, # West McDonel Hall, Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan #.  Hal Clement? Last month (and again soon!) Schmitz and Van Vogt? Next month. Sheckley? This month -- but in Galaxy. And we're after all the others you mention, too. -- The Editor.    Dear Editor: I am struggling to understand the motives of Mr. A. E. Van Vogt. Does he have a lot of trouble getting published? Perhaps he is too old to be encouraged as various others were from time to time -- but personally, I am one who believes that his aliens -- past and future -- comprise the most cogent theme in modern sf writing. If anyone can stir imagination among a bunch of lazy engineers, let that person be loudly applauded! -- J. Alwood, Van Nuys, California.  Van doesn't have a bit of trouble getting published, that's for sure It seems there are simply other things he would rather do than write -- but we've been pretty lucky about persuading him to change, as witness next month! -- The Editor.    Dear Fred: I think the story your reader J. #. Alyea of Missouri wants iden tified is Cloak of Aesir by Don A. Stuart... though it's not a novel. One of the Master's best, I think. What's with all these Grees and Wockiis and so on? A veritabobble epidemic of them lately. Jim Blish.  As of press time about twenty other readers made the same identification. What we can't figure out is why we didn't ! -- The Editor.    Dear Editor: I just read Hue  Cry f in the April issue of If. It did my heart good to find that I am not alone in my objections to the cancellation of Outer Limits. I have written to for some sort of retaliatory movement. I am a devoted wife and a harried mother, with little time for writing. But I do not despair. My love for science fiction and my strong desire for a good television program keep my fingers andor my hands as busy as possible. Since I have been reading sf for some six years, I think it is about time we sf fans the return of Outer Limits -- or perhaps, if my aspirations are not too high, something better! -- Mrs. Evelyn L. Maher, # Webster Avenue, Jersey City, New Jersey, #.    Dear Editor: There has been so much Hue  Cry lately about alleged sf television that I was aroused from a twenty-year sleep long enough to write this letter. In the first place: Yes, I agree that horror movies are ruining all our good reputations. and ask them to keep Outer Limits. I disagree with those of your readers who consider it the best show of its type. It is devoted to "no plot monster stories" -- or was before I gave it up in disgust, some time ago. What is really needed is some thing new. A series, perhaps based on the Retief stories... there are endless possibilities. Anybody know a producer? -- Charles Smith, # Hinckley Road, Waban, Massachusetts #.    Dear Editor: What's happened? Ever since If went monthly it's been the best around. It's even better than Galaxy. Glad you're finally publishing E. E. Smith's story -- how about some more Heinlein or Asimov? For my money the best covers were January # and March #. Let's have more McKenna, what say? Can't see where any readers could support that Outer Limits . Best sf on TV was some of the better shows on Twilight Zone. Ramona Alderson can see good TV when somebody figures out how to sell it to high-school kids and beer slops. Maybe some reader can help me. When, in which book or magazine and where, can I get a story called The Crystal Towerl As I recall, the story concerned a boy who escaped from the domesticated humans to a pack of wild humans and ended by taking off in a rocket with a girl It was either a long novelette or a novel. -- David Lyon, #I Cedar Street, Belfast, Maine.    Dear Editor: I wonder if you can help me? Solne time ago I read a sciencefiction story about a man driven to desperation by the advertising gimmickry of his age. He couldn't walk down the street for the racket of blaring recorded commercials. He couldn't ride in a bus or subway train for the big color television ads that carried nothing but loud hard sell. He couldn't sit quietly in his room for the mechanical birds that would sense him by his body heat and clamp themselves onto his windows to deliver their sales message. So overwrought did this make him that he viciously conned his beloved (estranged) wife out of some # on the pretext of re-establishing housekeeping with her. Instead he took the money and bought for himself .a lifetime in Paradise. But "Paradise", it turned out, was a commercial outfit that rented out rooms to the lucky few who could afford them -- dull, gray, soundproofed rooms that could not be penetrated by advertising messages. Anything you could do to help me trace this story would be very much appreciated. -- James W. McLean, # Prince Arthur Avenue, Toronto #, Canada.    Dear Editor: I would like to congratulate you on two excellent issues in a row (November and December) and your first good cover illustrations since way back when. How about getting some more Poul Anderson stuff? He is the greatest. -- Dave Spegel, #I Anderson Road, Linwood, Michigan.     Well, that's it for another month. This issue's "first" is Simon Says -- one of the few novelettes we've published in our program of bringing you at least one brand new writer in each issue of , hut, we think you'll agree, worth it. Next month -- del Rey, Van Vogt, Schmitz more of Doc Smith's great Skylark DuQuesne -- yes, indeed. See you then! -- The Editor . IF lammoW Fastest-Growing New Science-Fiction Magazine! Don't mail the coupon -- if you want to keep the magazine intact -- just Order on a plain sheet of paper -- but, however you do it, rush in your that readers call "the best thing that's happened to science fiction in a dozen years" -- the magazine that has already brought you great novels by Arthur C. Clarke and Philip K. Dick -- novelettes and complete short novels by Murray Leinster, Keith Laumer, J. T. McIntosh and a dozen other favorite writers, etc. Every issue is new... exciting... enjoyable! Don't wait -- subscribe today! You can order them separately at # each postpaid -- OR -- list issues desired below and we will ship them at once and deuct that number from your subscription. #I Hudson Street, New York, N. Y. # I at your special price of only #. I enclose payment herewith. My subscription is Q new, Q renewal. Name Address City Zip Code State I lf you want back issues, check attached box. One subscription issue will be subtracted for each back issue order. Send me back issues I as follows: # n#i, n##, r :##,   ##, r##, n##. I ##, n# # , #?,   ##, #! #, D##. I J won't run off with your books if you put inside the front cover of each book... a gummed bookplate with your name printed on it! No. GF-# by Emsh No. GF-# by Emsh mtr Namr  Your Name Here No. GM-# by Cullen Rapp No. GX-# by Lynd Ward The umpteenth corollary off Finagle's General Law of Dynamic Negatives says: "No books are ever lost by loaning except ones you particularly want to keep." # for #; #, #; #, # with owner's name imprinted All Postpaid. Add state sales tax, if any. The designs shown above are the only ones we offer! JULY #  SOc continuing -- by Lester del Rey Edward E. Smith Ph.D Two of science fiction's greatest writers join to bring you an exciting new story! by A. E. Van Vogt and James H. Schmitz Worlds of iHTfts you the finest in science fiction Dop't delay -- send in your subscription order today of IF delivered to your door, bringing you stories by ail your favorites in science fiction! His celebrated Retief stories and others appear regularly in IF -- fast-moving, comic yarns of diplomatic skullduggery out on the frontiers of the stars I still to come! And coming soon -- Fourth and greatest of the Immortal "Skylark" stories, his memorable serials! Send in your order today and we will send you the next newsstand price. But act now! Use this order blank or order by letter -- but don't delay! IF -- Subscription Department #I Hudson Street, New York, N. Y. # Yes, send me the next # issues of IF! I enclose #.  New  Renewal Name Address City State Zip No (Outside of N. and S. America add # for postage) Offer void after Dec. #, # Vol. #, No. # issue # Frederrk Pohl, Edifor David Perton, Prodvefion Mgr. Robert M. Guinn, Publisher Diane Sullivan, Associate Editor Mavis Fisher, Subs. Mgr, IF published nonfhly by Ooloxy Publishing Corporation, Robert M. Guinn, Prosklont, Vol. #, No. #. Main Office; #I Hudson Street, Now York #, New York. #c per copy. Subscriptions # issues # in the United States, Canada, Aexico, South America and Central America ond U.S. possessions, ebewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All rights, including translations reserved. All material submitted must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelope. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories are ficHon, and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in the U. S. A. by the Guinn Company, New York #, N. Y. IF  Editorial Concerning Worms and Serpents S ome years ago If published a story by James McConnell called Learning Theory. It had to do with a man who finds himself running a maze; he has been abducted from Earth by some more potent and intelligent creatures whose principal interest in Earthmen is in seeing if we are intelligent at all. So they put our hero to the standard tests that we humans give to guinea pigs, mice and worms. It was a good story. Indeed, it had every reason to be. Not only was (and is) McConnell a firsbelass writer, but in his incarnation as Dr. James V. McConnell he is professor of psychology at the Mental Health Research Institute at the University of Michigan -- and thus an old maze runner from way back. McConnell's mazes are most usually being run by planarian worms; in fact, you might say that every bit of the stature and dignity that planarian worms have in the eyes of science today is due to the efforts of Jim McConnell. Until a few years ago, nobody paid much attention to planarians. They are neither particularly pretty nor particularly smart. But they do learn -- sort of. At least, they are capable of acquiring a Pavlovian reflex if you know how to go about handling them. Suppose, for example, you give a planarian a mild electric shock. He will respond by contracting slightly. If you simultaneously apply electric shock and bright light, and repeat them together often enough -- oh, let's say forty or fifty times -- then something happens in the worm's nervous system that is something like learning. He begins to associate shock and light, and reaches a point where he will contract if you give him just the light. He has learned a response. All right; so far so good; but Pavlov did the same thing with dogs and bells half a century ago. What makes the planarian the celebrity he is today is that if you then take a highly trained, lightreacting planarian; chop him up into small pieces; feed him to another, totally untrained planarian...  and if you then give the second planarian, the cannibal one, the same series of stimuli... why, then the second planarian learns the shrinking lesson in only perhaps a dozen tries instead of forty or fifty. In other words, some part of the "memory" of the cannibal planarian was acquired through his digestive system. He has eaten himself an education. This is fact, not joke. But there are jokes in Jim McConnell too, and one of the evidences of his sense of humor is the scientific journal he has been publishing on and off for nearly ten years, called The Worm Runner # Digest, The Digest may not be the most important technical periodical being printed today, but it may well be the most widely read. It's certainly the funniest. And what brings all this to mind at this time is that the publishing firm of Prentice Hall has just had the wisdom to get McConnell to put together an anthology of the best from The Worm Runner # Digest, The title of the book is The Worm Re-Tums, We enjoyed it. You will too! M cConnell's planarians are an example of scientific fact that sounds like a hoax. A gallery of scientific hoaxes that sound like fact, on the other hand, is in Robert Silverberg's Scientists and Scoundrels, just out from Crowell. As Silverberg says in his introduction, 'This is, in a way, a book of science fiction -- or at any rate, a book of fictional science." Among his scientists and scoundrels are accounts of Atlantis-hunters and sculpture-forgers; of the Great Moon Hoax that had all America looking toward alien intelligences in the sky a century before sciencefiction magazines ever appeared ; and of that most impressive of flimflams, the Piltdown Man. If you are going to play a practical joke, that is the scale to play it on! Whoever joined man's cranium to ape's jaw, pickled the mixture in aging solution and passed it off as an authentic fossil, is surely still laughing in some unmarked grave. Still, we would enter a demurrer or two against some of Silverberg's charges. Item: Silverberg says flatly that Dr. Cook never reached the North Pole and that it was all a hoax concocted for the sake of fame and profit. We're not so sure. (Wo should point out, by the way, that the Frederick J. Pohl mentioned in Silverberg's book as snpporg Cook's claims is not the undersigned, but an older and undoubtedly wiser Pohl; coincidentally, we are more of this other Pohl's view on this matter than of Silverberg's.) And this same Frederick J. Pohl, as it happens, introduced us some years ago to a man named Hjalmar Holand, who Silverberg thinks was a well meaning but credulous character, taken in by some forged archeological evidence and persuaded that the Vikings a thousand years ago left carved runes on a stone in Minnesota. Holand may well have been wrong. It is hard to see just how Vikings could have got that far inland -- or why -- or what became of them if they did. But credulous Holand was not, nor was he anybody's dupe. As to how the Vikings got there, Holand wrote a fictional account of their journey in a wondrously interesting novel which we read in manuscript and hope someone will sooner or later have the wit to publish. As to what they were doing there -- well, we know one thing about the Vikings: Anywhere they could go, they did go. And as to what became of them... that's hard to say; but one thing Holand told us that bears on that is the persistent, and otherwise inexplicable, Minnesota tradition of a tribe of blue-eyed Indians who lived in that area in the early nineteenth century! But Silverberg's book is fun anyIF  Complete Short Novel The aim of fhe experimenf was only to make a superhuman. It succeeded far beyond that goall I B arbara Ellington felt the touch as she straightened up from the water cooler. It was the lightest of touches, but quite startling -- momentary, tiny flick of something ice-cold against the muscle of her right arm at the shoulder. She twisted quickly and rather awkwardly around from the cooler, then stared in confusion at the small well-dressed, bald-headed man who stood a few feet behind her, evidently awaiting his turn for a drink. "Why, good afternoon, Barbara," he said pleasantly. Barbara was now feeling embarrassment. "I... " she began incoherently. "I didn't know anyone else was near. Dr. Gloge. I'm finished nowl" She picked up the briefcase she had set against the wall when she stopped for a drink and went on dong the bright-lH corridor. S#ie was a tall, lean-odied gkl -- perhaps a little too taH but, with her serious face and smooth, brown hdr, not unattractive. At the moment, her cheeks burned. She knew she walked with wooden, self-conscious stiffness, wondering if Dr. doge was peering after hex, puzzled bjr her odd behavKM at the water cooler. "But something did touch nie, she thought. At the turn of the anridor, she glanced back. Dr. Gkge had had his drink, and was wdking off unhurriedly in the opposite direction. Nobody else was in sight. After die'd turned the comer, Barbara reached up with her left hand and rubbed the area of her upper arm where she had felt that tiny, noomeiriary needle of ice. Had Dr. doge been responsible for -- well, for whaterer it had been? She frowned and riiook her head. She'd worked in Qkge's office for two weeks immecfiatdy after riie'd been employed here. And Dr. Henry Gloge, head of the bicdogy sectim at Research A)ba, while invariably polite, even courteous, was a cold, quiet, withdrawn character, completely devoted to his work. He was not at all the kind of man who would consider it humorous to play a prank on a stenographer. A nd it hadn't, in fact, been a prank. From Dr. Henry Gloge's point of view, the encounter with Barbara Ellington in the fifth floor hallway that afternoon had been a very fortunate accident. A few weeks earlier he had selected her to be one of two unwitting subjects for Point Omega Stimulation. His careful plans had included a visit to her bedroom apartment when she was not there. He had installed equipment that might, be of value later in his experiment. And it was not until these preliminaries were accomiished that he had headed for the steno pool, only to find that Barbara had been transferred out of the department. Gloge dared not risk inquiring about her. For if the experiment had undesirable results, no one must suspect a connection between a lowly typist and himself. And even if it were successful, secrecy mit continue to be necessary. Gloge chafed at the delay. When on the fourth day of his search for her he suddenly recognized her walking almg a hallway fifty feet ahead of him, it seemed as if fate was on his side after all. As the girl paused at a water cooler, he came up behind her. Quickly, he made sure that no one else was in view. Then he drew the needle jet gun and aimed it at her shoulder muscles. The gun carried a gaseous compound of the Omega serum, and tfie only sign of a discharge, when he fired it, was a thin line of mist from the needle end to her skin. His task then accomplished, Gloge hastily slipped the Instrument into the holster inside his coat and buttoned his coat. B arbara, still carrying her briefcase, presently came to tibe offices of John Hammond, special assistant to the president of Research Alpha, which lay on the fifth floor of what was generally considered the most important laboratory complex on Earth. Alex Sloan, the president, was on the floor above. Barbara paused before the massive black door with Hammond's name on it. She gazed possessively at the words Scientific Liaison and Investigation lettered on the panel. Then she took a small key from her briefcase, slipped it into the door lock and pressed to the right. The door swung silently back. Barbara stepped dirough into the outer office, heard the faint click as the door closed behind her. There was no one in sight. The desk of Helen Wendell, Hammond's secretary, stood across the room with a number of papers on it. The door to the short haH which led to Hammond's private office was open. From it Barbara heard Helen's voice speaking quiedy. Barbara EHmgton had been assigned to Hammond -- actually, to Helen Wendell -- only ten days before. Aside from the salary increase, part of her interest in the position had been the intriguing if somewhat alarming figure of John Hammond himself, and an expectation that she would find herself in the center of the behind-the-scene operations of Scientific Liaison and Investigation. In that, she had so far been disappointed. Barbara walked over to Helen Wendell's desk, took some papers from her briefcase, and was putting them into a basket when her eye caught the name of Dr. Henry Gloge on a note in the adjoining basket. Entirely on impulse -- because she had seen the man only minutes before -- she bent over the paper. The note was attached to a report. It was a reminder to Hammond that he was to see Dr. Gloge today at three-thirty in connection with Gloge's Omega projfect. Barbara glanced automatically at her watch; it was now five minutes to three. Unlike most of the material she handled, this item was at least partly understandable. It referred to a biological project, "Point Omega Stimulation." Barbara couldn't remember having heard of such a project while she was working under Dr. Gloge. But that was hardly surprising -- the biological section was one of the largest in Research Alpha. From what she was reading, the project had to do with "the acceleration of evolutionary processes" in several species of animals, and the only real information in the report seemed to be that a number of test animals had died and been disposed of. Was the great John Hammond spending his time on this sort of thing? Disappointed, Barbara put the report back into the basket and went on to her own office. A s sfhe sat down at her desk, Barbara noticed a stack of papers which hadn't been there when she had left on her errand. Attached to them was a note in Helen's large. I IF dear handwriting. The note said: Barbara, This came in unexpectedly and must be typed today. It obviously win require several hours of overtime. If you have made special arrangements for the evening, let me know and #I have a typist sent up from the pool to do this extra woric. Barbara felt an instant pang of possessive jealousy. This was her job, her office! She definitely did not want some other girl coming in. Unfortunately, she did have a date. But to keep an intruder from taking her place in John Hammond's office, even if only for a few hours, was the more important matter. That was her instant decision, needing no second thought. But she sat still a moment, biting her lip; for that moment she was a woman considering how to put off a male who had a quick temper and no patience. Then e picked up the telephone and dialed a number. For some months now, Barbara had settled her hopes for e future on Vince Strather, a tedmician m the photo lab. When his voice came on the telephone, she told hfan what had happened, finished contritely, "I'm afraid I can't get out of it very well, Vince, so soon after starting here." She could almost feel Vince absorbing the impact of the denial she was conununicating; she had discovered quickly in their brief romance that he was trying to move her towards premarital intimacy, a step she was wholly determined not to take. She was relieved now, when he accepted her explanation. She replace the receiver, feeling very warm toward him. "I really do love him!" she thought It was a few moments later that she suddenly felt dizzy. T he feeling was peculiar, not like her usual headaches. She could fl it build up, a giddy, light swirling which seemed both within and without her, as if she were weightless, about to drift out of the chair, turning slowly over and over. Almost simultaneously, she became aware of a curious exhilaration, a sense of strength and wellbeing, quite unlike anything she could remember. The sensations continued for perhaps twenty seconds... then they faded and were gone, almost as abruptly as they had come. Confused and somewhat shaken, Barbara straighteeaed up in her chair. Foi a moment she considered taking aspiiln. But there seemed no reason for that. She didn't feel ill. It even seemrd to her that she felt more awake and s;)(ert. She was about to return to her typing when she became aware of a movement out of the comer of her eye. She looked up and saw that John Hammond had paused in the doorway of her little office. Barbara froze, as she always did in his presence, then sdowly she turned to face him. Hammond stood the, staring at her thoughtfully. He was a man about six feet t, wi dark brown hair and steel gray eyes. He seemed "Are you all right, Barbara?" to be about forty years old and he Hammond asked. "For a moment, was built like an athlete. Yet it was I thought you were going to fall not his appearance of physical out of your chair." strength but the fine intelligence of It was highly disturbing to Barhis face and eyes that had always bara to realize that her dizzy spell impressed her during the ten days had been observed. "Fm sorry, Mr. since she had been assigned to his Hammond," she murmured shyly, office. She thought now, not for the "I must have been daydreaming." first time: "This is what really great He gazed at her a moment longer, people arc like." then nodded, turned and walked off. IF  ? U a stained white smock over his street clothes, pushing a loaded O n leaving Barbara, doge went handtruck ahead of him, appeared down several floors and staand turned down the passage totioned himself behind a pile of shipwards Gloge and the laboratory storeping crates. These were in a passage room. across from the locked door of the It was the end of the lab shift, main photo lab storeroom. On the Gloge had discovered that one of dot of #:#, a door farther along the regular duties of Vincent the passage opened. A lanky scowlStrather, Barbara Ellington's boy ing, redheaded young man wearing friend, was to return certain materials to the storeroom at this hour. Peering through the slats of a crate. Dr. Gloge watched Strather's approach. He was, he realized, much more tense and nervous now than he had been when he had given Barbara the injection. Of himself, Vincent Strather was not the kind of subject Dr. Gloge would have chosen -- the young man was too angry, too bitter. But the fact that he was Barbara's friend and that they spent their spare time together, should be useful in the further steps of the experiment -- so it seemed to Dr. Gloge. Sliding his hand under his coat where the jet gun rested, he moved quickly out into the passage and across it toward Vince Strather Even as he pressed the trigger, he knew his nervousness had betrayed him. The needle tip of the gun had been too far away from Strather; a foot; almost two feet too far. At that greater distance the jet stream, emerging from the needle at nearly a thousand miles an hour, had time to spread and slow down. It caught Strather high up on the shoulder blade and tugged at his skin as it entered. For Strather, the sensation must have been that of a sharp impact. He jumped and cried out, then stood shuddering, as if in shock -- long enough for Gloge to slip the little gun back into its holster and close up his coat. But that was all. Vince Strather whirled. His hands caught Gloge by the arms, and his angry face glared down into the Doctor's. "You damn jerk!" he shouted. "What did you hit me with just now? Who the hell arc you, anyway?" For a moment. Dr. Gloge fdl appalled. Then he tried to twist out of Strather's hard grip. "I dont know what you're talking about!" he said breathlessly. He stopped. He saw that Vince was gazing past his should. The young man's grip relaxed suddenly, and Gloge was ale to free hknself. He turned and looked behind him. He felt a stunned, incredulous dismay. J ohn Hammond was coming along the passage, gray eyes fastened questioningly upon them. Gloge could only hope desperately that he had not been in sight when the gun was being fired. Hammond came up and said in a tone of easy authority: "Dr. Gloge, what's going on here?" "Doctor!" Vince Strather repeated, in a startled voice. Gloge put puzzled indignatkm in his tone: "This young man appears to be und the impression that I struck him just now. Needless to say, I did nothing of the kind and don't imderstand what gave him such an idea." He looked ftowniny ba at Strather. Strathcr's gaze shifted uncertainly between them. He was obviously abated by John Hammond's presence and Gloge's tide but not yet over his anger. He said sadenly, "Well, something hit me. At least k felt that wajrl When I looked around, he was standing there. So I thought he'd done it." "I was passing you," Dr. Gloge ir corrected him. "You exclaimed something and I stopped." He shrugged, smiled. "And that's all I did, young man! I certainly had no reason to strike you." Strather said grudgingly, "I guess I was mistaken." Dr. Gloge said promptly, "Then let's call it an error and forget it!" He held out his hand. Strather reached out reluctantly and shook it, then looked at Hammond. When Hammond remained silent, he turned away in obvious relief, took one of the boxes from the truck and disappeared into the storeroom with it. Hammond said, "I was on my way to your office. Doctor, where I expect to have an interview with you in a few minutes on the Omega project. I presume you were heading m that direction." "Yes, yes." Gloge fell into step beside the bigger man. He was thinking: "Did he see anything?" His companion gave no sign. A few minutes later, as he gazed across the gleaming desk of his private office at John Hammond, Gloge had the uneasy feeling of a criminal confronted by the law. It had always amazed him that this man -- Hammond -- could make him feel at very least like a small boy. Yet the discussion that now developed began with a reassuring statement from the bigger man: "This is a completely informal conversation. Doctor. I am not representing President Sloan at the moment -- even less the Board of Regents. That has been deliberately arranged. It will make it possible for both of us to speak quite frankly." Dr. Gloge said, "Have there been complaints about my work here?" Hammond nodded. "You can't have remained entirely unaware of it. Doctor. You've been asked to amplify your project reports, make them more detailed and specific, three times within the last two months alone." Gloge was reluctantly deciding that he would have to tell some of his data. He said with apparent openness, "My reluctance to communicate has been due to a strictly scientific dilemma. Things were happening in the experiment but their meaning was not clear to me until very recently." "There is a feeling," said Hammond in his steady voice, "that your project is failing." Dr. Gloge said sharply, "The accusation is unworthy!" flammond looked at him, said, "No accusations have been made -- as yet. That's why Fm here today. You have reported no successes within the past six months, you know." "Mr. Hammond, there have been many failures. Within the limited framework of the present stages of the project experiments, that is exactly what should be expected." "Limited in what way?" "Limited to the lower, less complicated forms of animal life." "That," said Hammond mildly, "is a limitation you yourself have imposed on the project." Dr. Gloge agieed. 'I rue. The conclusions I've been able to form at such lower levels have been invaluable. And the fact that the results of the experiments have been almost invariably negative, in the sense that as a usual result the subject animals evolyed into nonviable forms, is completely unimportant." "As a usual result," Hammond repeated. "Then not all of them died quickly?" Gloge bit his lip. That was not an admission he had intended to make at this initial stage in the discussion. He said, reluctantly, "In a respectable percentage of the cases, the subject animals survived the first injection." "And the second?" Gloge hesitated. But there was no turning back. "The survival percentage drops very sharply at that point," he said. "I don't recall the exact figures." "And the third?" H e was really being forced to make revelations. Dr. Gloge said, "To date, three animals have survived the third injection. All three were of the same species -- Cryptohranchus "The hellbender," said Hammond. "Well! A large salamander... Now, the third injection, according to your theory, should advance an animal along the evolutionary line stimulated in it to a point which might be of natural evolution. Would you say such a result was achieved in these three cases?" Dr. Gloge said, "Since Cryptobranchus might be considered with some reason to be a species in which evolutionary development is at a practical standstill, I should say that much more was achieved." "What were the observable changes?" Gloge had been bracing himself as he made one admission after another. He was striving to decide exactly when he could start resisting the interrogation. Nowl he thought. He said aloud, trying to appear frank, "Mr. Hammond, I'm beginning to realize that I was in error in not making more positive reports. I can't believe that you are really interested in these superficial accounts. Why not let me summarize my observations for you?" Hammond's gray eyes were clam and steady. "Go ahead," he said in an even tone. Gloge outlined his conclusions, then. The interesting features were two-fold, probably equally important. One of these was that there remained in all life forms a wide evolutionary choice. For reasons that were not yet clear, the Omega serum stimulated one oi these potential developments and no subsequent stimulation could alter the mutational direction. Most of these developments led to extnetion. "The second feature," said Gloge, "is that the chances for success increase as the life form becomes more highly evolved." Hammond said, interested, "What you're saying is that when you finally IF start working with the more active mammals and eventually monkeys, you expect more and better results?" "I have no doubt about it," said Dr. Gloge, firmly. A secondary aspect -- Gloge continued -- was that brain areas which controlled the inhibition of simple reflexes often seemed to be the source of new neural growth and of sensory extension. The serum apparently intensified these effort points, increasing their operational flexibility. What went wrong was that all too often such one-sided inhibitory amplification ended in nonsurvival. However, in Cryptobranchus, the roof of the mouth developed small functional gills. The hide thickened into segmented, horny armor. Short, grooved fangs were acquired and connected to glands that produced a mild hematoxic venom. The eyes disappeared, but areas in the skin developed sight-level sensitivity to light. Gloge shrugged, finished: "There were other changes, but these would seem the most dramatic ones." "They sound sufficiently dramatic," said Hammond. "What happened to the two specimens which were not dissected?" Dr. Gloge realized that his diversion had not worked. "They were given the fourth injection, of course," he said resignedly. iC'The one," Hammond asked, A "which was to advance them evolutionary line tocy were foUowing -- "Or," Dr. Gloge said, "to the peak-point of that evolutionary line. The equating of the four stages of the stimulation process to the passing of specific periods of normal evolutionary development -- twenty thousand years, fifty thousand, five years -- is, of course, hypothetical and generalized. My calculations indicate that in many species of which we have knowledge in that area the two points might be approximately the same." Hammond nodded. "I understand. Doctor. And what happened after your evolved Cryptobranchus received the fourth injection?" "I cannot give you a precise answer to that, Mr. Hammond. In appearance it was a very rapid breakdown of the entire structure. Within two hours, both specimens literally dissolved," Gloge answered tensely. "In other words," Hammond said, "Point Omega Stimulation directs Cryptobranchus and, in fact, every species to which it has been applied into one of the many blind alleys of evolution." Dr. Gloge said curtly, "So far h has done that." Hammond was silent, then: "One more point," he said. "It's been suggested that you might consider taking on a sufficiently qualified assistant in this work. Research Alpha probably could obtain Sir Hubert Roland for a project of such interest." Dr. Gloge said coldly, "With all due respect for Sir Hubert Roland's accomplishments, I would regard him as a meddler here! If the attempt is made to force him on me, I shall resist it." "Well," Hammond said easily, "let's not make any unalterable decisions at the moment. As I mentioned, this has been a completely informal discussion." He glanced at his watch. "I'm afraid we'll have to terminate it now. Would you have time to see me in my office one week from today at ten o'clock, Doctor? I wish to carry this matter a little further, and that will be my first free time." Dr. Gloge had difficulty restraining his feeling of triumph. Today was Wednesday. He had selected it as his starting time because he had wanted his subjects to be away from Iheir place of work over the weekend. Between now and Saturday, he oould undoubtedly accomplish the first two injections on the young couple. By the following Wednesday, the third, perhaps even the fourA riiot would have been administered and all strong reactions either taken care of or the experiment terminated. To cover up his elation, Gloge said in the tone of one making a concession, "As you wish, Mr. Hammond." m D r. Henry Gloge was awake much of the night, vacillating between hopes and fears of what he would find when he went to check on the first results of Point Omega Stimulation in human beings. If they were obviously negative, ho would have only one choice. It could be called murder. Dr. Gloge approached that subject in a detached, undisturbed frame of mind. He had several times in his work secretly carried on a more advanced experiment while, ostensibly, following the step-by-step scientific method. Thus fortified by special knowledge, he had in the past been able to plan lower-step work with the sometimes intuitive insights gained from his unpublicized private investigation. The importance of the Omega project to him justified a similar expedient. Objectively considered, in the light of such a goal, the lives of the two young people he had chosen for the experiment were, of no value. Their destruction, if it became necessary, would be in the same category as the slaughter of other experimental subjects. With human beings there was, of course, an element of personal risk mvolved for himself. It was that realization that trouUed him, now that he had made the first injection. Time and again. Dr. Gloge awakened out of a nightmare-riddled half-sleep, to quail anew at the knowledge and to lie sweating with anxiety until he slid back into exhausted slumber. When four o'clock came, it was almost with relief that he arose, fortified himself with several tablets of a powerful stimulsmt, made a last check of his preparations, and set out across town toward the house where the Ellington girl had a room. IF He drove in a black panel truck that he had bought and equipped for his experiment. He arrived at his destination about a quarter past five. It was a quiet residential street, a tree-lined avenue in one of the older sections of the city, approximately eight miles west of the Research Alpha complex. Two hundred yards from the house. Dr. Gloge pulled the small truck up to the curb on the opposite side of the street and shut off the motor. F or the past week, a miniature audio pickup-recorder, inserted under the bark of a sycamore tree across the street from the house, had been trained on Barbara Ellington's second-floor room, its protruding head cunningly painted to resemble a rusty nail. Dr. Gloge now took the other part of the two-piece instrument from the dashboard compartment of the truck, inserted the plug in his ear, and switched it on. After perhaps half a minute of twisting the tuning dial back and forth, he felt his face whiten. He had tested the instrument at night on two occasions during the past week. It was quite sensitive enough to pick up the sounds of breathing and even the heartbeat of anyone in the room; and so he knew with absolute certainty at Barbara Ellington's room had no living occupant at this moment. Quickly, he attached the recording playback mechanism to the little device, turned it back one hour, and put the plug into his ear again. Almost at once, he relaxed. Barbara Ellington had been in that room, asleep, an hour ago breath even and undisturbed, heart beat strong and slow. Dr. Gloge had listened to similar recordings of too many experimental animals to have the slightest doubt. This subject had moved up successfully, unharmed, to the first stage of Point Omega Stimulation! The impact of his triumph after the ghastly fears of the night was very strong. Dr. Gloge needed several minutes to compose himself. Finally, he was able to move the recorder by ten-minute steps to a point where the Ellington girl obviously was awake and moving about the room. He listened with absorbed fascination, feeling almost able to visualize from moment to moment exactly what she was doing. At one point, she stood still for some seconds and then uttered a low, warm laugh which sent thrills of delight through the listening scientist. Perhaps a minute later, he heard a door being closed. After that, there was only the empty, Kfeless silence which had startled him so badly. B arbara Ellington had awakened that Thursday morning with a thought she had never had before. It was: "Life doesn't have to be serious!" She was contemplating this frivolous notion with the beginning of amazement when a second thought came which she had also never had in her entire previous existence. "What is this mad drive to enslave myself to a man?" The thought seemed natural and obviously true. It had no general rejection of men in it. She still -- it seemed to her -- loved Vince... but differently. Thought of Vince brought a smile. She had already noted in one of numerous, quick, darting glances around the room that it was nearly two hours before her usual rising time. The sun was peering through her bedroom window at that almost horizontal angle which, in the past, had seemed to her a horrifying threat that she would be robbed of precious sleep. Now, it struck her: "Why don't I call Vince and we'll go for a drive before I have to go to work?" She reached for the phone, then considered and drew back. Let the poor man sleep a little longer. She dressed swiftly, but with more than usual care. When she glanced at the mirror, it occurred to her that she was better looking than she had realized... Very much better looking! she decided an instant later. Intrigued, for a moment amazed, she went up to the mirror, studied the face in it. Her face, familiar. But also the face of a radiant stranger. Another awareness came and the bright, glowing, blue mirror-eyes holding hers seemed to widen. "I feel twice as alive as I ever have before!" . Surprise... pleasure... and suddenly: "Shouldn't I wonder wzy?" The mirror-face frowned slightly, then laughed at her. There had been a change, a wonderful one, and the change was not yet complete. There was a sense of shifting deep inside her, of flows of brightness along the edges of her mind. Curiosity had stirred, but it was light, not urgent or anxious. "When I want to know, I will know!" Barbara told herself... and, with that, the trace of curiosity was dismissed. "And now." She glanced once more around the little room. For over a year, it had held her, contained her, sheltered her. But she didn't Want shelter now. The room couldn't hold her todayl She decided, smiling, "I'll go and wake up Vince." S he rang Vince's doorbell five times before she heard him stirring inside. Then his voice called harshly, thickly, Who is that?" Barbara laughed. "It's me!" "Good God!" The lock clicked back and the door opened. Vince stood staring at her with bloodshot eyes. He'd pulled a robe on over his pajamas; his bony face was flushed and his red hair tangled. "What are you doing up at this hour?" he demanded as Barbara stepped past him into the apartmt. "It's half-past five!" "It's a wonderful morning. I couldn't stay in bed. I thought Fd get you to go for a drive with me before I went to work." Vince pulled the door shut, blinked at her incredulously. "Go for drive!" he repeated. Barbara asked, "Aren't you feeling well, Vince? You look almost as if you're running a fever." IF Vince shook his head. don't feel feverish, but I sure don't feel well either. I don't know what's the matter. Come on and sit down. Want some coffee?" "Not especially. I'll make some for you, if you like." "Nah, don't bother. I'm sort of nauseated right now." Vince sat down on the couch of the little living room, fished cigarettes and matches from a pocket of his robe, lit a cigarette and grimaced. "That doesn't taste too good either!" He scowled at Barbara. "Something pretty damn funny happened yesterday! And I'm not sure -- " He hesitated. "Not sure of what, Vince?" "That that isn't why I'm feeling this way." Vince paused again, shook his head, muttered, "Sounds crazy, I guess. You know that Dr. Gloge you worked for once?" It seemed to Barbara as if whole sections of her mind lit up in brilliance at that instant. She heard Vince start Co tdl his story. But -- except for J Hammond's intervention -- k was something she already knew. Part of a much bigger story... She thought: Why, that impudent little mani What a d, wonderful, terrific thing to do! Excitement raced through her. The paper she had seen lying on Helen Wendell's desk flashed into her mind, every word sharp and distinct -- and not only the words! Now she understood. What they meant, what they implied, the possibilities concealed behind them -- for herself, for Vince. Another feeling awoke. Sharp wariness. There was danger somewhere here! JcAn Hammond... Helen... the hundreds of little impressions she'd received all suddenly flowed together into a picture clear but puzzling -- of something supra-normal, she decided, amazed. Who were they? What were they doing? In a dozen different ways, they didn't really fit in an organization like Research Alpha. But they had virtually complete control. Not that it mattered immediately. Yet she was certain of one thing. They were opposed to what Dr. Gloge was attempting through Point Omega Stimulation, would stop it if they could. "But they can't!" she told herself. What Dr. Gloge had begun was right. She could fed the rightness of it like a song of triumph in every aspect of her being. She would have to make sure that it wasn't stopped at this point. But she would need to be careful -- and act quickly! It was incredibly bad luck that John Hammond had arrived almost while Dr. Gloge was giving Vince his first shot. "Do you think I dKnld lepoft it?" Vince asked. "You'd look a Htde foofidi if k turned out that you were coming down with the flu, wouldn't you?" Barbara said lightly. "Yeah." He sounded hesitant. "What does it fed like, aside from the nausea?" Vince described his symptoms. Not unlike her own -- and she'd had a few bad moments before she went to sleep last night. Vince was going through an initial reaction period more prolonged and somewhat more severe than hers. She was aware of a fond impulse to reassure him. But she decided it would be unwise to tell him what she knew. Until he came out of his physical distress, such information might disturb him dangerously. She said urgently, "Look, you don't have to go to work until tonight. So the best thing for you is to get a few more hours of sleep. If you start feeling worse, and would like me to take you to a doctor, give me a call and I'll come and get you. Otherwise, I'll phone at ten." Vince agreed immediately. "I'm really awfully groggy. That's a big part of it. I'll just stretch out on the couch instead of going back to bed." When Barbara left a few minutes later, her thoughts quickly turned away from Vince. She began to consider various methods she might use to approach Dr. Gloge this very day. G loge reached the street where Vincent Strather lived and was looking for a parking place, when suddenly he saw Barbara Ellington emerge from the area of the apartment building and start across the street ahead of him. The girl was perhaps a hundred yards away. Dr. Gloge braked the panel truck hastily, pulled it in to the curb, rolled up behind another car parked there and stopped. He sat there, breathing hard at the narrow margin by which he had avoided being seen. Barbara had hesitated, glancing in the direction of the approaching truck, but now she was continuing across the street. Watching her swift, lithe stride, the proudly erect carriage of her body -- comparing that picture with the frozen awkwardness he had observed in all her movements the day before -- Dr. Gloge felt his last doubts resolve. It was in the human species that Point Omega Stimulation would achieve its purpose. His only regret now was that he had not arrived even as much as ten minutes earlier. The girl obviously had come to see Strather, had been with him until now. If he had found them together examination on a comparison basis could have been made of them simultaneously. The thought did not in the least diminish the tingling excitement that filled him as he watched Barbara's brown car pull out into the street and move away. He waited until her car was out of sight, then drove the truck down to the alley beside the apartment building and turned in to it. His intention was to give Strather a careful physical examination. A few minutes later. Dr. Gloge watched a pointer in the small instrument he was holding drop to the zero mark on the dial. Pulling off the respirator clamped over his mouth and nose, he stood looking down at the body of Vincent Strather sprawled on the living room couch. Vincent Strather's appearance was much less satisfactory than he had expected. Of course, the young man's reddened face and bloodshot eyes light be due to the paralyzing gas IF Dr. Ologe had released into the apartment as he edged open the back door. But there were other signs of disturbance; tension, distended blood vessels, skin discoloration. By comparison with Barbara Ellington's vigor and high spirits, Strather looked drab and unimpressive. Nevertheless, he had survived the first shot. Gloge straightened, studied the motionless figure again, then went about the apartment quietly closing the window he had opened exactly one minute after releasing the instantly effective gas. The gas had dissipated now. When its effect on Strather wore off an hour or so from now, there would be notMng to tell the subject that anything had occurred here after Barbara Kington had left. Tomorrow he woidd return and give Strather the second ot As he locked the back door behind him and walked over to the panel truck, Dr. Ologe decided that he would have to come back and check both his subjects that night. He felt extremely confident It seemed to him that before anyone found out that it had been started, the Point Omega Stimulation experiment on human beings would have run its course. IV H ammond heard the be sound as he was shaving in the bathroom of his living quarters whidi were located behind his office. He paused, then deliberately put down his razor and activated a hidden microphone in the wall. "Yes, John?" Helen's voice came. "Who came in?" "Why -- only Barbara." She sounded surprised. "What makes you ask?" "The life range indicator just now registered an over-six read." "On BarbaraV Helen sounded incredulous. "On somebody," said Hammond. "Better have Spe Servicing check the indicator out Nobody else came in?" "No." "Well -- che k." He broke the connection and finished shaving. The buzzer sounded in Barbara's office a little later -- the signal that she was to report with her notebook to Hammond's office. She went, curious, wondering if he would notice any change in her. Much more important was her own desire to take a closer look at this strange, powerful man who was her boss. She walked into Hammond's office and was about to sit in the dhair he motioned her to, when something in his manner warned her. Barbara made an apologetic gesture. "Oh, Mr. Hammond -- excuse me a moment." She hurried out of the office and down the hall to the washroom. The moment she was inside, e dosed her eyes and' mentally re-lived her exact feelings at the instant she had sensed  -- whatever it was. Not Hammond at all, she realized. It was the chair that had given forth some kind of energy flow. Eyes still closed, she strove to perceive what within herself had been affected. There seemed to be an exact spot in her brain that responded each time she reviewed the moment she had started to sit down. She couldn't decide what the response was. But she thought: "I don't have to let it be affected now that I know." Relieved, she returned to Hammond's office, seated herself in the chair and smiled at Hammond where he sat behind his great, gleaming, mahogany desk. "I'm sorry," she said. "But I'm ready now." D uring the half hour that followed, she took shorthand with a tiny portion of her mind, and with the rest fought off a steady, progressively more aware battle against the energy pressure that flowed up at her in rhythmic waves from the chair. She had by now decided it was a nerve center that reacted to hypnotic suggestion, and so when Hammond said suddenly, "Close your eyes, Barbara!" she complied at once. "Raise your right hand!" he commanded. Up came her right hand, with the pen in it. He told her to place it back in her lap; and then swiftly put her through several tests -- which she recognized as being of a more important kind. What interested her even more was that she could let the center respond and monitor the parts of the body that he named -- without losing control. So that when he IF commanded her hand to be numb and suddenly reached over and stuck a needle into it, she felt no sensation; and so she did not react. Hammond seemed satisfied. After normalizing the feeling in her hand, he commanded: "In just a moment, Fm going to tell you to forget the tests we've just been doing, but you will remain completely imder my control and answer truthfully any questions I ask you. Understand?" "Yes, Mr. Hammond." "Very well, forget everything we've done and said since I first asked you to close your eyes. When the memory has completely faded, open your eyes." Barbara waited about ten seconds. She was thinking: "What roused his suspicions so quickly? And why would he care?" She suppressed an excited conviction that she was about to discover something of the secret life that went on in this office. She had never heard of a hypnotizing chair. She opened her eyes. She swayed -- an act -- then caught herself. "I beg your pardon, Mr. Hammond." Hammond's gray eyes regarded her with deceptive friendliness. "You seem to be having problems this morning, Barbara." "I really feel very well," Barbara protested. "If there's anything in your life that has changed recently," he said quietly, "I want you to confide in  if me. That was the beginning of an intensive questioning into her past history. Barbara answered fiwly. Apparently Hammond was finally convinced, for he presently politely thanked her for the conversation and sent her off to type the letters he had dictated. As she sat at her desk a few minutes later, Barbara glanced up through the glass and saw Helen Wendell walking along the hall toward Hanunohd's office, disappear into it. H ammond greeted Helen: "All the time I talked to Barbara, the life range indicator showed eight-four, above the hypnotizable range. And she told me nothing." "How is it registering on me?" Helen asked. He glanced down at his right to the instrument in an open desk drawer. "Your usual eleven-three." "And you?" "My twelve point seven." "Perhaps only the middle ranges are out of order," Helen said, and added, "Special Servicing will make their check after day-time office hours. All right?" Hammond hesitated, thoi agreed that there seemed to be no reason for breaking the rules of caution by which they operated. During the lunch hour, Barbara experienced a brief return of the dizziness. But she was alert now to the possibilities. Instead of simply letting it happen, she tried to be aware of every nuance of the feeling. There was a -- shifting -- taking place inside her. She sensed a flow of energy partides from various points in her body to other points. A specific spot in her brain seemed to be monitoring the flow. When the pulsations ceased -- as abruptly as they had started -- she thought: "That was more change taking place. I grew in some way in that minute." She sat very still there in the restaurant, striving to evaluate what had changed. But she couldn't decide. Nonetheless, she was content. Her impulse had been to seek out Dr. Gloge some time during the day in the hope that he would be wanting to give her a second injection That ended. Obviously, all the changes from the first shot had not yet taken place. She returned to Scientific Investigation and Liaison, The bell sound, as Barbara entered, caused Hammond to glance at the indicator. He stared at it for a long moment, then buzzed Helen WendeU. "Barbara now reads nine point two!" he said softly. Helen came to the door of his office. "You mean her reading has gone up?" She smiled. "Well, that settles it. It is the instrument." "What makes you say that?" Hammond seemed strangely unsure. "In all my experience," Helen said, "I've never seen anyone change for the better. There's the slow drop as they grow older, but -- " she stopped. The strong face was relaxing. Yet after a moment Hammond said, "Still -- we never take chances, so I think I'll keep her with me tonight. Do you mind?" "It's a nuisance," she said, "but aH right." "Fll give her the conditioning that overwhelms twelve point # and higher. She'll never know what hit her." V I t was shortly after dark when Dr. Henry Gloge parked his black van near Barbara's home. He promptly tuned in on the audio device attached to the tree and adjusted the volume for pickup. After thirty seconds of silence, he began to frown. "Not again!" he thought; then, wearily, "Well, maybe she's over at her boy friend's." He started the motor and presently drew up at the curb opposite Strather's apartment. A quick check established that the lanky redhead was there -- but alone. The young man was awake and in an angry state. As Gloge listened in, Vince savagely picked up the phone and dialed what must have been Barbara's number, for presently he slammed the receiver down and muttered, "Doesn't she know I've got to go to work tonight? Where can that girl be?" That, in rising alarm, was a question which Gloge asked himself as the evening wore on. He returned to the vicinity of Barbara's boarding house. Until eleven P.M. the phone in her room rang periodically, testifying to Vince's concern. vien it had not rung for an hour, Gloge presumed that Strather IF had gone off to night duty. It was not a fact that could be left to surmise. He drove back to Vince's apartment No sounds came from it Gloge accordingly returned to the street where Barbara lived. He was tired now, so he rigged up an alarm system that would buzz hkn if Barbara entered her room; then, wearily, he crawled onto the cot ki the back of the van and quickly fell into a de deep. E arlier, as Barbara sat in her office a few minutes before closing time, she swayed and almost blacked out Greatly alarmed, she emerged from her office and reported the feeling to Helen Wendefl. She did not question the logic of seeking the help of Hammond's blonde aide. The secretary was sympathetic, and promptly took her in to John Hammond. By this time Barbara had experienced several more brief blackouts. So she was grateful when Hammond unlocked the door behind his desk, led her through a luxurious living room and into what he called the "spare bedroom." She undressed, slipped under the sheets and promptly went to sleep. Thus, subtly, she was captured. During the evening, Hammond and Helen Wendell took turns looking in on her. At midnight, the Special Servicing expert reported that the life range indicator was working properly and he himself checked the body of the sleeping girl. "I get nine two," he said. "Who is she? New arrival?" The silence that greeted his remark abruptly startled him. "You mean she's an Earther?" "At least," said Helen WendeU after the man had departed, "there's been no further change." Hammond said, "Too bad she's above the hypnodzable stage. Mere conditioning is actually a. sorry substitute for what we need here -- truth." "What are you going to do?" Hammond did not make up his mind about that until after daybreak. "Since nine two is no real threat to us," he said then, "we merely return to routine and keep aware that maybe somebody is doing something that we don't know about Perhaps we might even use a little "Here -- at Alpha?" Hammond stared thoughtfully at his beautiful aide. Normally, he trusted her reactions in such matters. She must have sensed what he was thinking, for she said quickly, "The last time we used extended perception, about # Earthers tuned in on us. Of course, they thought of it merely as their imagination, but some of them compared notes. It was talked about for weeks, and some awfully important things were close to being revealed." "We-#-#-#, okay, let's be aware of her then." "All right. On that basis I'll wake her up." A s soon as she was in her office, Barbara phoned Vince. There was no answer. Which was not surprising. If he had worked the night shift, he would be dead to the world. She hung up and checked with the photo lab, and was much relieved when the night work list showed that Vince had signed in and out. As she sat at her desk that morning, Barbara felt extremely grateful to Hammond and his secretary for having been so helpful to her. But she was also slightly guilty. She suspected that she had been affected again by the injection that Gloge had given her. It was disconcerting to have been so strongly affected. "But I feel all right now!" she thought as she typed away at the pile of work Helen Wendell had put in her basket. Yet her mind was astir with plans. At ten o'clock, Helen sent her out with the usual morning briefcase full of memos and reports. Elsewhere -- Gloge had awakened shortly after seven. Still no Barbara. Baffled, he sliaved with his electric razor, drove lo a nearby business thoroughfare and ate breakfast. He next went back to the street wiiere Strather lived. A quick check established that the man was home. Gloge triggered his second charge of gas -- and a few minutes later was in the apartment. The young .man had changed again to his pajamas, and he lay stretched , out once more on the settee in his living room. If anything, die angry expression on his face was more pronounced. Gloge, needle in hand, hesitated. He was not happy with this subject. Yet he realized that there was no turning back at this stage. Without further pause holding the point almost against Strather's body, he squeezed the trigger. There was no visible reaction. As he headed for his office at Research Alpha, Gloge's thought was on the girl. Her absence was unfortunate. He had hoped to inject the serum into his two subjects at approximately the same time. Evidently that was not going to happen. VI A few minutes after he returned to his office. Dr. Gloge's phone rang. His door was open, and he heard his secretary answer. The woman looked up over the receiver. "It's for you. Doctor. That girl who worked here for a while -- Barbara Ellington." The shock that went through Gloge must have shown as disapproval, for the woman said hastily, "Shall I tell her you're not in?" Gloge quivered with uncertainty. "No." He paused; then, "I'll take the call in here." When he heard the clear, bell-like voice of the girl. Dr. Gloge felt tensely ready for anything. "What is it, Barbara?" he asked. "I'm supposed to bring some papers over to you," her voice trilled in its alive, vital way. "Fm to give them to you only, so I wanted to make sure you would be there."... Opportunity! It seemed to Gloge that he couldn't have asked for a more favorable turn. His other subject would now come to his office where IF he could fire the second infection into her and deal personaBy with any reaction. As it devdoped, there was no reaction that he coidd detect. She had turned away after delivering the papers to him, and that was when he fired the needle gun. It was a perfect shot. The girl neither jumped nor swung about; she simply kept going toward the door, opened k, and went through. Barbara did not return to Hammond's office. She expected a strong physiological distuihance from the second injection, and she wanted to be in the privacy of her own room when it happened. It had cost her an effort not to react in front of doge. So she stayed in her bedroom, waited as long as e thought wise, and then phoned and told Helen Wendell that she was not well. Helen said sympathetically, "Wdi, I suppose it was to be expected after tfie bad night you had. Barbara answered quickly, "I began to have dizzy spells and nausea. I panicked and rushed home." "You're home now?" "Yes." "I'll tell Mr. Hammond. Barbara hung up, unhappy with those final words. But there was no way to stop his learning about her condition. She had a feeling she was in danger of losing her job. And it was too soon. Later, after the experiment, it wouldn't matter, she thought uneasily. Perhaps she had better take the "normal precautions of an employee. "After all, she thought, "I probably show symptoms. She called her doctor and made an appointment for the foBowing day. Barbara replaced the receiver feeling a strange glee. "I ought to be in foul shape by tomorrow, she thought, "from the second injection. What Hammond did when he returned to his office late that afternoon was to sit in thought for a while after Helen reported to him Barbara's situation. Then: "It doesn't add up. Helen. I should have asked you before. Have you examined her file?" The blonde young woman smiled gravely. "I can tell you everything that's in it, right from the top of my head. After all, I securitychecked her. What do you want to know?" "You mean there's nothing?" "Nothing that I could find." Hammond hesitated no longer. He was accustomed to trusting Helen Wendell. Abruptly he threw up his hands. "All right. She's got the whole weekend to be sick in. Call me when she comes in to work again. Did that report arrive from New Brasilia? "It was sent to Manila Center. "Are you serious? Let me talk to Ramon. There must be a reason! Quickly he was absorbed in his new tasks. B arbara slept. When she awakened her clock said twelve after seven. It was daylight, early morning. She found that out in a sensational fashion. She went outside and looked... without moving from the bed! There she was lying in her bedroom; and there she was out in the street. Simultaneouy. Involuntarily, she held her breath. Slowly, the outside scene faded, and she was back in the bed, wholly indoors. With a gasp, she started breathing again. By cautious experimentation, she discovered that her perception extended about a hundred yards. And that was all she learned. Something in her brain acted like an invisible eye stalk that could reach through walls and bring back visual images to the light-interpretation centers. The ability remained completely stable. Presently she became aware that a small black van was parked down the street and that Dr. Gloge was m it. She realized that he had an instrument with an earplug with which he seemed to be listening in on her. His face was intent, his small eyes narrowed. Something of the determination of this little, baldheaded scientist seeped through to her, and Barbara suddenly felt uneasy. She sensed remorselessness, an impersonal quality that was entirely different from her own light-hearted participation in his experiment. To Gloge -- she realized suddenly -- his subjects were like inanimate objects. In human terms the viciousness of it was infinite. As she continued to perceive him. Gloge shut off his instruments, started the motor of his car and drove off. Since 'Wnoe was again on the night shift, presumably Gloge was heading home. She phoned Vince's apartment to make sure; when there was no answer, she called the photo lab. "No, Strather didn't come in last night," the administrative assistant of that department told her. Barbara replaced the receiver unhappily, recalling that Vince had not responded well to the first shot. She suspected the biologist had given him his second shot also, and that he was not responding favorably to it either. She dressed and drove over to hk apartment. As she came near, she could see him inside, so when he showed no sign of replying to her ring, she let herself in with her key -- and found him on the living room couch, tossing and turning. He looked feverish. She felt his forehead; it was dry and hot to the touch. He stirred and opened his cyet, looked up with his sick brown eyes into her bright blue ones. She thought unhappily: "I'm so well and he's so ill. What can be wrong? Aloud, anxiously, she said, "Yon need a doctor, Vince. Wlurt's the name of that man who gave you a checkup last year?" 'T'll be all right," he mumbled. He sank back to sleep. Sitting there on the settee beside him, Barbara felt something in her lungs. Her instant, amazed thought was: "Gas!" But she was too slow. IF S he must have blacked out instantly -- because her next awareness was of lying on the floor, and of Gloge bending over her. The scientist was calm, efficient, seemed satisfied. Barbara caught his thought: "She'll be all right." She realized that he was stepping past her to Vince. "Hmmm!" Gloge seemed critical and unhappy. "Still not good. Let's see if tranquilizer will help him." He made the injection, then straightened, and there was a strange, hard thought in his mind: "By Monday night, it'll be time for the third injection and I'll have to decide what to do." So clear was the thought that came from him, it was almost as if he spoke aloud. What his thought said was that he intended to kill them both, if either failed to develop as he desired. Shocked, Barbara held herself very still; and at that moment an entirely different growth process occurred in her. It began with a veritable flood of suppressed information suddenly rising to the surface of her mind... About the reality of what people were ' like... the dupes, the malingerers and the weaklings on the one hand, and, on the other, the angry and the distorted, the worldly wise and the cjmics. She recognized that there were well-meaning people in the world who were strong, but she was more aware of the destructive at this instant... by the million, the swindlers and betrayers -- all self-justified, she saw now. But she realized also that they had misread their own bitter experiences. Because they were greedy and lusl ful and had lost their fear of punishment, earthly or unearthly; becauao they resented being thwarted m their slightest whim; because -- A forgotten scene flashed into her mind from her own past, of a minor executive in her first job, who had fired her when she refused to come up to his apartment. All her life, she had been taught and she had tried not to be awaio of such things. But now, at samo level of neural computation, she permitted all that data to be calculated into the main stream of her awareness. The process was still going on a few minutes later when Gloge departed as silently as he had come. After he had left, Barbara tried to get up and was surprised that she could not even open her eyes. The realization that her body was still unconscious presently enthralled her. What a marvelous ability! As time passed, it began to be disconcerting. She thought: "Fm really quite helpless." It was early afternoon before she was finally able to move. She got up, subdued and thoughtful, warmed a can of soup for Vince and herself and forced him to drink it from a cup. Immediately after, he stretch out again on the couch and fefl asleep. Barbara left the apartment to keep her appointment with her own doctor. As she drove, she could feel a stirring inside her. More change? She decided it was. Perhaps there would be many such between now and Monday. Yet her intuition wm diat she would not be able le dominate this situation with the changes from the first and second shots only. "Somehow," she thought, "I've fot to get that ird shot" vn A t noon Monday, after he had dictated some letters to a girl from the steno pool, Hammond came out of his office. "What's the word from Nine-two?" Helen looked up with her flashing smile. "Barbara?" "Yes." "Her doctor called in this morning at her request. He said he saw her Saturday. She appears to have a mild temperature, is subject to dizEf spells, and a variety of unmentionable ailments like diarrhea. However, there's one unexpected things the doctor said -- evidently his own comment. Interested?" "Of course." "He said that in his opinion Barbara has had a major personafity diange since he last checked her about a year ago." Hammond shook his head dowly. "Merely confirms our own observation. Well, keep me in touch." But about four o'clock, when the long distance screen was finally silent, he buzzed Helen Wendell. I can't get that girl out of my mind, it's premonition level stuff, so I can't ignore it. Phone Barbara." She called to him a minute later: "Sorry, there's no answer." "Bring her file to me," said Hammond. "I've got to assure myself I'm not missing something in this unusual matter." As he scanned the typed pages a few minutes later, he came presently to the photograph of Vince Strather. He uttered an exclamation. "What is it?" Helen asked. He told her what had happened the previous week between Dr. Gloge and Vince Strather. He finished, "Of course, I didn't connect Barbara with that young man. But this is his picture. Get Gloge's file." # I A pparently the change started when his sister died two months ago," Helen Wendell said presently. "One of those sudden and dangerous shifts in personal motivation." She added ruefully, "I should have watched him on that. The death of a near relative has often proved important." She was seated in die main room of Hammond's living quarters at Research Alpha. The door to Hammond's private office behind them was closed. Across the room, a large wall safe had been opened, revealing a wide double row of thin, metal-bound files. Two of the files -- Henry Gloge's and Barbara Ellington's -- lay on the table before Helen. Hammond stood beside her. He said now, "What about that trip he made back east early in the month?" "He spent three days in his home town, purportedly to make arrangements to sell his sister's and his property there. They had a house, complete with private laboratory. untenanted, on the grounds of an old farm. The perfect location for unsupervised experimentation. On primates? Not likely. They're not easy to obtain secretly and, except for the smaller gibbons, they should make potentially quite dangerous subjects for Dr. Gloge's project. So it must be humans he planned to work on." Hammond nodded. There was an almost sick expression on his face. The woman looked up at him. "You seem very anxious. Presumably, Barbara and Vince have now had two injections each. That wifl take them to # years from now on some level. It doesn't seem desperately serious to me." The man smiled tautly. "Don't forget that we're dealing with one of the seed races." "Yes -- but only # years so far." He stared at her sympathetically, "You and I," he said, "are still far down on the ladder.  it's hard for us to conceive of the evolutionvy potential of the Genus homo gokcticus. She laughed. "I'm content with my lowly lot -- " "Good conditioning," he murnMired. analysis. What do you intend to do with Gloge?" Hammond straightened decisively. "This experiment on humans has to be stopped at once. Call Ames and have him put special security men at every exit. For the next hour, don't let Gloge out of this building. And if Vince or Barbara try to enter the complex, tell him to hold them. When you've done that, start cancelling my appointments for the rest of the day and evening." He disappeared into his bedroom, came out presently dressed for the street. Helen Wendell greeted him with: called Ames, and he says 'Check! But I also phoned Gloge's office. He left about an hour ago, his secretary says." Hammond said quickly, "Sound a standby alert. Tell Ames to throw a guard around the homes of both of those young people!" "You're going where?" "First Barbara, then Vince. I only hope I'm in time." A look must have come into Helen's face, because he smiled tensely and said, "Your expression says I'm getting too involved." The beautiful blonde woman smiled with understanding, said, "Every day on this planet thousands of people are murdered, hundreds of thousands are robbed and countless minor acts of violence occur. People are struck, choked, yelled at, degraded, cheated -- I could go on. If we ever opened ourselves to that, we'd shrivel away." "I kind of like Barbara," Hammond confessed. Helen was calm. "So do I. What do you think is happening?" "As I see it, Gloge gave them the first injection last Wednesday and the second on Friday. That means the third one should be given today. That I've got to stop." He departed hastily. Vffl G loge had become nervous. A Monday wore on, he kept thinking of his two specimens; and what bothered him was that he did not have them under observation on this last day. What a ridiculous situation, he told himself. The greatest experiment in human history -- and no scientific person watching it through to a conclusion of the key second injection. There was another feeling, also. Fear! He couldn't help but remember the young man. It seemed to Gloge that he had seen too many animals ow in their fashion the symptoms he had observed in Vince. Failure to respond well to the serum, the signs of internal malaise, the sick appearance, the struggle of the cells visibly reflecting defeat in the effwts and chemistry at the surface of the skin. And there was -- he had to admit it -- a further anxiety. Many of the imsuccessful animal specimens had developed tough fight-back characteiktics. It would be wise to be prepared for emergencies of that nature. He thought grimly: "No use fooling myself. I'd better drop everything and take anoAer look at those two." That was when he left his office. He took it for granted Aat Barbara was all right. So he drove to Vince's apartment, and first checked with his audio pickups to make sure he was there and alone. IF He detected at once movements; the sound of labored breadiing, an occasional squeak of the springs of the couch. These noises came screeching through the hyper-sensitive receiver, but Gloge had the volume on them turned down so that they were not actually painful in his ears. Gloge's spirits had already dropped even more, for the sounds he was hearing confirmed his fears. Suddenly, all the justified scientific attitude that had motivated him until now came hard against the reality of the failure that was here. By his previous reasoning, he would now have to kill Vince. And that meant, of course, that he would also have to dispose of Barbara. His state of funk yielded after what must have been many minutes to a strictly scientific thout: Mere sounds were not enough data for so basic a decision, it seemed to him. He felt intense disappointment. Now, he must go and make his decision from an actual meeting with Vince. It would be improper to dispose of his two human subjects without a face to face interrogation. A s Gloge climbed out of his car and headed for the apartment building, Vince had a dream. He dreamed that the man -- what was his name? -- Gloge, with whom he had quarreled a few days before in the corridor at Research Alpha, was coming here to his apartment, some deep of his being, anger began. But he did not awaken. The dream -- product of his own disturbed, strange evolutionary development -- continued. From some vantage point, he watched Gloge approach his back door. He felt no surprise when the small, bald-headed man produced a key. Tense with fear, Vince watched as Gloge stealthily inserted the key into the lock, slowly turned it and quietly opened the door. At that point, Vince's body was impelled by his extreme anxiety to shining, cream-colored energy bundles were emitted by his nervous system. They resembled very short straight lines. And they passed through the wall that separated the living room from the kitchen, and they struck Gloge. Great masses of the energy units unerringly sought out nerve ends in Gloge's body and darted in thdr scintillating fashion up to the mans brain. The energy units were not the result of conscious analytical thought. They were brought into being solely by fright and carried pressor messages. They pushed at Gloge mentally, urging him to leave, to go back to where he had come from -- Dr. Gloge came to his senses with a start. He was back in his van. Ha remembered running in precipitant flight. He had a vague recollection of complete panic. He sat now, trembling, breathing hard, trying to recover from the most disaceful act of fear that he had ever experienced in his whole life. And he knew that he had to go back. Twice more, the sleeping Vince emitted enough energy bundles to compel Gloge to run. Each time the power available was less and Gloge retreated a shorter distance before stopping and forcing himself to go back again to the apartment. On Gloge's fourth approach, the brain mechanism in Vince was able to manufacture only a small energy discharge. Gloge felt the fear rise in him, but he fought it -- successfully. He moved silently across the kitchen floor toward the door of the living room. He still did not realize that the sleeping body and he had fought a battle -- which he had now won. M oments later, Gloge looked down at the exhausted form of his male subject. The sleeping body had perspired excessively. It trembled and moaned, and, as Gloge watched, jerked fitfully. Unmistakably -- Gloge decided -- a failed experiment. He wasted no time. He had come prepared. He pulled a pair of handcuffs from his pocket, carefully slipped one over Vince's farthest away arm and softly clicked it shut. He lifted the arm as carefully toward the other wrist and clicked that handcuff on also. Gloge next successfully tied Vince's legs together, and then lashed together the hands and feet. The victim continued his restless, feverish sleep. Gloge brought out a gag. As he had anticipated, forcing it into the closed mouth was more disturbing. Under him, the body grew rigid. Wild eyes flicked open and glared up at him. In a single, convulsive effort Vince tried to bring up his arms and simultaneously struggled to get to his feet. But Gloge had done his preliminary work well. The victim's intense effort subsided. Dr. Gloge realized that his control of this situation was complete. He removed the gag and said: "What I want to know is, how do you feel?" The half-crazy, rage-filled eyes snapped with the impulse to violence. Vince cursed in a shrill voice. He kept this up for several minutes. Then he seemed to realize something. "Y-you did something to me last week." Gloge nodded. 'T injected you twice with a serum designed to accelerate cellular evolution, and Fve come here to find out how you are." His gray eyes were steady, his bald head gleamed in the reflection of the light he had turned on. His face was serious. "Why not teU me exactly how you feel?" he asked earnestly. This time Vince's cursing subsided after about a minute. He lay, then, staring at his captor, and something about the pale, tense face of the scientist must have convinced him. "I feel -- awful," he said uneasily. "Exactly how?" Gloge persisted. Slowly, by dint of determined questioning, he drew from his relucIP tant victim the fact that he felt weak, exhausted and numb. It was the fateful combination that had so often shown in the animals; and Gloge knew that it was decisive. Without another word, he bent down and started to force the gag into Vince's mouth. Vince twisted, wiggled, turned his head, and several times tried to bite. But inexorably Gloge pushed the gag all the way into the other's mouth and knotted it firmly behind his head. He now went outside and drove the van into the driveway opposite the back door of Vince's apartment. Wrapping the young man's body in a blanket, he carried him boldly outside and into the van. A few minutes later he was heading for the home of one of his subordinates. The man was on loan to an eastern laboratory and his house and yard were unoccupied. If he had paused, if he had stopped moving, if he had even taken his foot off the accelerator, Gloge might have faltered in his grisly plan. But his only slowdown was when he finally brought the car to a stop at his destination. And that, in its meaning, was a continuation of the plan. Its final moments. L aboriously, he dragged the gagged, handcuffed and boimd Vince across the sidewalk, throu a gate, and over to the deep end of the swimming poc#. And stMl without pausing he shoved the tense body over the edge and mto the water. He straightened from his terrible act, stood there gasping for breath, exhausted, watching the trail of bubbles that roiled the dark surface. Abruptly terrified that he might be seen, he turned and staggered away. As he half-fell, half-crawled into his car, the first opposing thought came, as much a feeling of horror as an idea: "My God, what have I done?" But there was no opposing motion in that reaction. He did not go back. Instead, he sat there, bracing to the realization that a few feet away a man was still in process of drowning. When there was no longer any doubt; when the subject of his experiment was by all laws of life dead, Gloge sighed, and stirred. There was no turning back. One gone, one to go. Next -- the girl! From a phone booth a few blocks away, Gloge dialed Barbara Ellington's boarding house. The voice of an elderly woman answered and told him Barbara had gone out. The vcHce added, "She certainly is a popular giii today." Gloge said uneasily, "How do you mean?" "Several men came by a little while ago and asked for her, but of course I had to tell them also that she wasn't here." A sharp fear struck through Gloge. "Did they give their names?" he asked. "A Mr. Hammond," was the reply. Hammondl The chill of that froze Gloge. "Thank you," he gulped, and hung up. He returned shakily to his car, tom between two impulses. He had intended to return after dark to the pool, fish Vince's body out of it, take off all the bindings and dispose of it. He had a strong feeling now that he should do that at once. On the other hand, he had a desperate conviction that he must return to bis office and remove the rest of the serum from the safe there. That last suddenly seemed the more important thing to do, and the safest at this hour. The sun had gone down below the western hills, but the sky was still bright blue. The dying day had too much light in it for the gruesome task of getting rid of a dead body. IX A t ten minutes past seven, Dr. Gloge unlocked the door that led directly from the corridor to his office in the biology section of Research Alpha. He went in, closed the door behind him, walked quickly around the big, bare desk in the center of the room, and stooped down to unlock the desk drawer where he kept a key to one of the safes. "Good evening. Dr. Gloge," a woman's voice said behind him. For an instant Dr. Gloge seemed unable to move. The words, the tone, sent an electrifying hope through him He could scarcely beHeve his luck: that the second person he had to dispose of had come to where he could best deal with her. He straightened slowly, turned around. Barbara Ellington stood in the open door to the adjoining library, watching him, face serious and alert. At no tiine in at followed did Gloge have any other conscious awareness than that this was Barbara Ellington. But the very instant that he saw the girl, at some depth of his being neural readjustments took place. instant, subconsciously, she was his dead sister. But she was not dead any more. She was reassuringly alive in the person of Barbara. A look passed between them. It was one of complete understanding. It occurred to Gloge that it was scientifically wrong to kill this successful experimental victim. He even had a feeling that she was on his side and would cooperate with him. He suppressed a fleeting impulse to pretend not to know why she was here. He said, matter-of-factly, "How did you get in?" "Through the specimen room." "Did any of the night workers see you?" "No." Barbara smiled slightly. Gloge was examining her with quick evaluative looks. He noted the way she stood, almost motionless but lightly and strongly balanced -- a pose of contained, absolutely prepared energy. He saw in her eyes bright, quick intelligence. The thought came to him: Nothing quite like this was ever on Earth before! Barbara said suddenly, "You took a long chance on us, didn't you?" The words that burst from Dr. IF Gloge surprised him: "I had to do it." "Yes, I know." Again she spce matter-of-factly, moved forward into the room. Dr. Gloge felt a surge of alarm, a sharp, cold prickling of the skin. But she turned from him to the left, and he watched silently as she sat down in a chair against the wall and placed the brown purse she carried on the armrest of the chair. She spoke first. "You must give me the third injection of the serum immediately," she told him. "Ill watch you do it. Then #I take the instrument and a supply of the serum to Vince. He -- " She paused; blue eyes kindling with abrupt comprehension, as she studied Dr. Gloge's expression. "So you've drowned him I" she said. She sat there, thoughtful, then: "He's not dead. I sense him to be still alive. Now, what is the instrument you use? You must still have it with you." "I do," Dr. Gloge admitted hoarsely. "But," he went on quickly, "it is advisable to wait till morning before administering the third shot. The chances of a further favorable development would be increased by doing it. And you must stay here! Nobody should see you as you are. There should be tests... you will tell me..." H e halted, realizing he was stammering. Barbara's eyes hadn't turned from his face. And in the same way that her knowledge of Vince's fate had not disturbed him -- somehow, he took it for granted that she realized and appreciated why and what he had done -- so now her expression reassured him. She said quietly, "Dr. Gloge, there are several things you don't understand. I know I can assimilate the serum. So give me the shot -- and the serum -- at once." Barbara Ellington arose and started over toward him. She said nothing, and her face revealed no emotion, but his next awareness was of holding the jet gun out to her on his open palm as e came up. "There's only one charge left." She took the gun from his pdm without touching him, turned it over, studied it, laid it back in his hand. "Where is your supply of the serum?" Dr. Gloge nodded at the entrance to the library behind her. "The larger of the two safes in there." Her head had turned m the direction he indicated. Now she remained stMl for a moment, gaze remote, lips parted, in an attitude of intent listening; then she looked back at him. "Give me the injection," she told him. "Some men are coming." Dr. Gloge lifted the gun, put the point against her riioukler, pulled the trigger. Barbara drew her breath in riiarply, took the gun from him, opened her purse, dropped the gun kiside and snapped the purse shut. Her eyes shifted to die office door. "Listen!" she said. After a moment. Dr. Gloge heard footsteps coming along the narrow corridor from the main laboratory. "Who is ky he asked anxiously. "Hammond," she said. "Three other men." Dr. Gloge made a stifled sound of despair. "We ve got to get away. He mustn't find either of us here. Quick -- through there." He waved toward the library. Barbara shook her head. "This place is surrounded. All passages are guarded." She frowned. "Hammond must think he has all the evidence he needs against you -- but don't help him in any way! Admit nothing! Let's see what I can do with my -- " As she spoke she moved back to the chair on which she had been sitting. She settled into it, her face composed. "Maybe I can handle him," she said confidently. The footsteps had reached the door. There came a knock. Gloge glanced at Barbara. His thoughts were whirling. She nodded, smiled. "Come in!" Dr. Gloge said harshly, too loudly. Hammond entered the room. "Why, Mr. Hammond!" Barbara exclaimed. Her face was flushed, she looked embarrassed and confused. Hammond had stopped, as he caught sight of her. He sensed a mental probing. His brain put up a barrier, and the probing ceased. Their eyes met; and there was a flicker of consternation in hers. Hammond smiled ironically. Then he said in a steely voice: "Stay where you are, Barbara, ni talk to you later." His voice went up. "Come on in, Ames!" he called. There was threat in his tone; and Dr. Gloge sent a quick, desperate, appealing glance at Barbara. She gave him an uncertain smile. The look of earnest, fumbling innocence with which she had greeted Hammond had left her face, leaving it resigned but alert. Hammond gave no sign of being aware of the change. "Ames," he said to the first of the three men who came in through the library from the specimen room -- Dr. Gloge recognized Wesley Ames, the chief of Research Alpha's security staff -- "this is Barbara Ellington. Take charge of that handbag she's holding. Allow no one to enter this office. Miss' Ellington is not to leave and is not to be permitted to touch any object in this room. She is to stay in that chair until I return with Dr. Gloge." Wesley Ames nodded. "Understood, Mr. Hammond!" He glanced at his men, one of whom went to the office door and locked it while Ames turned to Barbara. She handed him her purse without comment "Doctor, come with me," Hammond said curtly. D r. Gloge followed him into the library. Hammond closed the door behind them. "Where's Vince?" he said in an inexorable voice. "Really, Mr. Hammond," Gloge protested. "I don't -- " Hammond stepped toward him abruptly. The movement seemed a threat. Dr. Gloge cringed, expecting to be manhandled. Instead, the bigger man firmly caught his arm and pressed a tiny metal object against his bare wrist. "Tell me where Vince is!" Hammond commanded. Gloge parted his lips to deny any IF knowledge of Barbara's boy friend. Instead, die confession of what he had done poured forth from him. As he realized what he was admitting, Gloge tried desperately to himself from talking. He had already divined that the metal touchidg hk skin was some kind of a hypnottc device, and so he tried to pull hk arm from Hammond's grasp. It was a vain effort. How long ago did you drown him?" Hammond asked. "About an hour ago," said Dr. Gloge, hopelessly. At that instant shouts came from the adjoining office. The door was pulled open. Wesley Ames stood there, ashen-faced. "Af r. Hammond -- shes goneV Hammond darted past him into the office. Dr. Gloge hiHried aft, legs trembling. As he reached the door, Hammond already was coming back into the office w one of the security men from die hidl on the other side. Ames and the other men stood in the colter ol the office, k)okmg about with stupefied esiressions. H ammond dosed the door, said to Aflits, "Quickly, nowl What happen?" Ames threw his hands up in a gesture of furious frustration. "Mr. Hammond, I don't know. We were watching her. She was diere in the chair... then she was not there, that's all. He -- " he indicated one of the men -- "was standing with his back to the door. When we saw she was gone, he was sitting on the floor next to the door! The door was open. We ran into the hall, but die wasn't there. Then I call you." "How long had you been watching hCT?" Hammond asked sharply. "How long?" Ames gave him a dazed look. "I had just taken my mother down the hall to the elevator -- " He stopped, blinked. "Mr. Hammond, what am I saying? My mother's been dead for eight years!" Hammond said softly, "Sk that's her little trick. She reached to that deep of the heart where the pure, unsullied dead are enshrined. And I thought she was only trying to read my mind!" He broke off, said in a dear, commanding voice: "Wake iq, Ames! You three have been gone from the world for a couple of minutes. Don't worry about how Miss Ellington did it Get her description to the exits. If riie's seen approaching by a guard, tell him to keep her at a distance at gun point" As the three hurried from the office, he indicated a chair to Dr. Gloge. Gloge sat down, senses swimming, as Hammond took a pencilshaped device from his pocket, pressed it and stood waiting. On the fifth floor of the Research Alpha complex, Helen Wendell picked up the small private phone at the side of her desk, said, "Go ahead, John." "Switch all defense and trap screens on immediately!" Hammond's voice told her. "Gloge's drowned Strather -- as an experimental failure. But the other one's #f awake and functioning. It's hard to know what she'll do next, but she may find it necessary to get to my office as a way of getting out of this building fast." Helen pressed a button. "Not this way she won't!" she said. "The creens are on." X O utside, it grew darker on that tense Monday night. At eight-eighteen, Helen Wendell again picked up the small phone purring at the side of her desk in the Research Alpha complex, glanced over at the closed office door, and said into the receiver, "Go ahead, John." "I'm here at the pool," John Hammond's voice told her. "We've just fished his body out. Helen, the fellow is alive, me reflex prevented any intake of water. But we'll need an oxygen tent." Helen's left hand reached for another telephone. "You want the ambulance?" she asked, starting to dial. "Yes. You have the street number. Tell them to pull up at the side gate. We have to act swiftly." "Police uniforms, also?" Helen asked. "Yes. But tell them to stay in the cab unless needed. We're out of sight, behind a high fence. And it's dark. I'll come back with them. Has Barbara been apprehended?" "No," Helen said. "I really didn't expect she would be," Hammond said. "I'll question the guards when I get there." B arbara had allowed Ames to escort her to the nearest elevator, while she continued to have hni think that she was his mother. Once in the elevator she pushed the up-button and came out presently on the roof. As she had already perceived, a helicopter was scheduled to take off. And, though she was not an authorized passenger, the pilot took her along believing her to be his girl friend. Her sudden arrival seemed perfectly logical to him. A little later, he set her down on the roof of another building. And that, also, seemed the most natural act to him, her reason for going there obvious. He flew off and promptly forgot the episode. The hasty landing was an urgent necessity for Barbara. She could fed the new injection beginning to work. So in her scanning of the building flitting by below, she perceived one in which the upper floors were unoccupied. "I'll try to make it down to some office," she thought. But she didn't get beyond the top floor. She actually began to stagger as she went down the first steps from the roof. And there was no mistaking the out-of-control state of her body. To her left, a door opened into a warehouse-like loft. She weaved through it, closed it behind her, and bolted it. Then she half-lowered herself, half-fell to the floor. During that evening and night she never quite lost consciousness. Blackout was no longer possible for IF her. But she could feel her body changing, changing, changing -- The energy flows inside her took on a different meaning. They were separate from her. Presently they would be controllable again, but in another fashion entirely. Something of Barbara seemed to disappear with that awareness. "I'm still me!" the entity thought as it lay there on the floor. "Flesh, feeling, desire -- " But she had the distinct realization that "me" even in these early stages of the five hundred thousand Exactly how the self was becoming something more was not yet clear. The slow night dragged by. XI uesday. Shortly before noon, Helen Wendell came along the hallway that led from John Hammond's quarters to the main office. Hammond was sitting at the far side of her desk. He glanced up at her as she approached. "How are the patients?" he asked. "Gloge is role-perfect," Helen said. "I even allowed him to spend part of the morning talking to his assistants here. He's already had two conversations by Telstar with Sir Hubert about his new task overseas. I've put him to sleep again, but he's available. When did you come in?" "Just now. How's Strather?" Helen tapped the recorder. "I checked with the MD machine on him twenty minutes ago," she said. "It gave me its opinion in detail. I took it all down. Do you want tc hear it?" "Sum it up for me." Helen pursed her lips; then: "The MD verifies that he didn't swallow any water, that some newly develop brain mechanism shut off breathing and kept him in a state of suspended animation. Vince himself has no conscious memory, of the experience, so it was evidently a survival act of the lower brain. MD reports other developments are taking place in Vince, regards them as freakish in nature. It's too soon to tell whether or not he can survive a third injection. Hes under sedation." Hammond looked dissatisfied. "All right," he said after a moment. "What else do you have for me?" "A number of transmitter messages," Helen said. "About Gloge?" "Yes. New Brasilia and Manila agree with you that there are too many chances of a revealing slip-up if Dr. Gloge remains at Research Alpha any longer than is absolutely necessary." "You said Gloge is role-perfect." Helen nodded. "At the moment. But he is a highly recalcitrant subject and naturally I can't give him the kind of final conditioning he'd get at Paris center. That's where they want him. The courier, Arnold, will take him aboard the Paris-jet at #:# tonight." "No!" Hammond shook his head. "That's too early! Gloge is our bait to catch Barbara. His experiments indicate that she won't be able to function until some time this evening. I calculate that somewhere around # o'clock will be a good time to let Gloge out from behind the defense screens." Helen was silent a moment, then aid, "There seems to be a general feeling, John, that you're over-estimating the possibilities of any really dangerous evolutionary developments in Barbara Ellington." Hammond smiled tautly. "I've seen her. They haven't. Mind you, for all I know, she may be dead or dying of the effects of the third shot by now. But if she's capable of cominp., I think she'll come. She'll want that fourth injection. She may start any time looking for the man who can produce the serum for her." B y Tuesday, a new awareness had come to Barbara. She had developed brain mechanisms that could do things with space -- do them on an automatic level, without her conscious mind knowing what, or how. Fantastic things... As she lay there, a new nerve eenter in her brain reached out and scanned a Tdume of space # lightyears in diameter. It touched and eompreheBded douds of neutral hydrogen and bright young #-type stars, measured e swing of binaries, took a cdisus of comets and ice asteroids. Far out in the constellation of Ophiuchus a blue-white giant was going nova, and the new, strange linkage in Barbara's mind observed its frantic heaving of spheres of radiant gas. A black dwarf emitted its last spray of infra-red light and sank into the radiationless pit of dead stars. Barbara's mind encompassed it all, and reached farther... reached out effortlessly until it touched a specific Something... and withdrew. Brimming with ecstasy, Barbara cried out in her mind. What did I touch? She knew it had been something the brain mechanism was programmed to search for. But no conscious perception was involved. All she could be sure of was that the nerve center seemed satisfied, and ceased its scanning. But she sensed, in an intensely happy way, that it remained aware of What it had contacted. She was still savoring the joy a while later when she became aware that the shifting energy flows inside her had resumed. Gradually, then, she permitted her body and mind to sink into a receptive state. Midsummer heat built up over the city throughout the day. In the locked room on the vacant top floor of the multi-storied building three miles from Research Alpha, the heat grew stifling as the sun shifted overhead, began to beat in through closed, unshaded windows. Barbara, curled on her side on the dusty floor, did not move. Now and then  uttered a moaning sound. Sweat ran from her for a long, long time, as the heat increased; then the skin of her face dried and turned dirty white. She made no more sounds. Even a close study would not have been able to prove that she still breathed. IF By four o'clock, the sunblaze had lifted past the windows, and the locked room lay in shadows. But it was another hour before the temperature in it gradually began to drop. About six, the curled figure moved for the first time. She straightened her legs slowly, dien, with a sudden, convulsive motion, rolled over on her back, lay flat, arms flung loosely to the sides. The right half of her face was smeared grotesquely with thick dust caked in drying sweat. She breathed -- lay quiet again. Several minutes later, her eyelids lifted. The eyes oddly awake and alert, though they remained unfocused and did not riiift about the room. After a while, the lids slowly closed and remained closed. T he day darkened; the city's lights awoke. The empty warehouse stood silent. More than an hour passed before the figure in the room on the top floor moved again. Tliis time, it was motion of a different order. She rose suddenly and quickly to her feet, went to the nearest window and stood looking cut through flie dirt-stained glass. The towering Research Alpha complex was a glow of white light to the west. Ihe watcher's eyes turned toward it... A second of time went by. Then the mind that directed the eyes moved on an entirely new level extended perception. Night-shift activities in the research complex were not essentially different from those of the day; but there were fewer people around as the awareness that was Barbara drifted along familiar, lighted hallways, about corners, dropped suddenly to a sublevel which contained the biology section. Here she flicked through the main laboratory and up a narrow corridor, pausing before the door to Dr. Gloge's office. She moved through the door, paused in the dark andsilent office, then moved on into the library. She remained a minute or two above the big safe in a corner of the library. Then she knew. The safe was empty -- and trapped. The awareness flicked out of the library, shifted to the fifth floor of the complex, drifted toward a great, black door showing the words: Scientific Liaison and Investigation. She stopped before it. Minutes passed as she slowly and carefully scanned the outer walls of John Hammond's offices and living quarters. Here was something new... something that seemed very dangerous. Within the walls and doors, above the ceiling, below the flooring of this section, strange energies curled and crawled like twisting smoke. She could not pass through that barrier. But though she could not enter, her perceptions might, to some extent. She must avoid, she decided, both the front entry door and the secret elevator which led directly to Hammond's living quarters in the rear of the section. As the most obvious points for an intruder to consider. they were also the most formidably shielded. She shifted back along the hall to a point some twenty feet away from the massive black door, wcU back from the wall between her and the front office. She waited. Gradually a picture began to form... This was an unfamiliar room, the inner office of the section. There was no one in it, nothing of interest except a closed door across from the one n hich opened on the corridor. The inner office disappeared... and what came next was no picture, but a surge of savage, demanding hunger. Startled, shocked, already feeling the pull that in a moment would hurl her into the murderous barriers about the section, the searching awareness instantly broke the thread of visual perception, went inactive to allow herself to stabilize. Nevertheless, she now knew where the serum was -- in a strongroom of Hammond's quarters, heavily screened, seemingly inaccessible. Perception cautiously opened again. Another section of the living quarters appeared, hazy with hostile energies. The other -- the male counterpart -- was here. Alive. Here, but helpless. Here, but unconscious, in a cage of dark force which permitted no more than barest identification by the searcher. She was very glad he had been rescued. M inutes later, she knew there was no one else in Hammond's locked quarters. She withdrew visual perception from there, and let the picture of the main office develop. The blurred image of a woman -- Helen Wendell -- now seemed to ba speaking into an instrument connected with the apparatus before her. A second band of perception opened, and voices became indistinctly audible. Ganin Arnold, the New Brasilia courier, was making his final call from the city jetport, nine miles south of the Research Alpha complex. "The doors are being secured," ha said. He was speaking into a disguised microphone clamped over his mouth and nose, which had the appearance of the tranquilizing respirators many of the other jet passengers were using now in the last moments before lift-off. Even to anyone within inches of him, hk voice would have remained completely inaudible. In John Hammond's office, it emerged clearly from the device on Helen Wendell's desk. "Lift-off for the nonstop jet to Paris," Arnold went on, 'Svill follow -- " he glanced at the watch on his wrist -- "in two minutes and thirty seconds. All passengers and every member of the crew have passed at least once through the measurement radius. Nothing which may have preceded or followed myself and our biologist aboard registers life energy levels significantly above the standard Earther range -- that is, of course, below six. "To sum it up, we definitely are not being accompanied to Park by any abnormally high human ev tionary form. Dr. Gloge's behavior IF has been excellent. His tranquilizer has begun to take effect and he is showing signs of drowsiness. Undoubtedly, he will sleep soundly throughout the trip." Arnold paused, apparently waiting for comment. When there was none, he resumed, "As soon as the liftfield goes on, communication by this means, of course, will be impossible. Since nothing is likely to go wrong 'from this moment on, I suggest, if it's satisfactory to Mr. Hammond, that I end my report now." Helen Wendell's voice, seeming to speak from a point just within the left side of the courier's skull, told him pleasantly, "Mr. Hammond prefers you to remain alert and available for final instructions until the lift has begun." xn I n the locked room on the top floor of the empty warehouse a few miles east of Research Alpha, the woman-shape standing at the window stirred suddenly out of the tranced immobility it had maintained for the past minutes. The head lifted, gaze sweeping the softly glowing night-sky above the city. A hand moved, touching the thick windowpane probingly. The glass fell away like a big drop of melting ice. Dust swirled as cool air rushed in. Barbara waited, then moved closer to the opening. Her gaze swung to the west again, remained there. She listened. The myriad noises of the city were clear and distinct now. Overlying them was a thin fountain of sky-sound as, every thirty seconds -- at this hour -- a jet lifted vertically from the city port, cut in its engines and vanished up into the night with a whistling shriek. Her head shifted quickly briefly following the changing pattern of the sound. Then it steadied. Her gaze rose slowly, slanting to the north, following a moving, distant point in the night, eyes narrowed with intentness. On board the Paris jet which had left the city port a few minutes before, Dr. Henry doge now had a very curious experience. Drowsily, almost on the verge of sleep, he had been contemplating the pleasant significance of his assignment today to Sir Hubert Roland's Paris Project. Suddenly, then, there was a sensation of coming partly awake. He gazed around him with a rising sense of alarm, looking first of all at his seat companion. The fellow was big, heavily built. He looked like a police detective, and Gloge knew that the man was his guard. The curious thing was that he was slumped back in the seat, head lolling forward, eyes closed... typical indications of a tranquilized stupor. Gloge thougiht; "Why is he asleep?" He had a strong conviction that it was he who should be unconscious. There was a clear memory of a device -- an instrument totally unfamiliar to him -- which the Wendell woman had used to implant a complete, compelling set of delusions in his mind. He had he had, at the suggestion of his guard, inhaled enough tranquilizing gas from the seat respirator to have kept him somnolent until the jet touched down in Paris, Instead, minutes later, he httl come awake, the delusions of the day slipping from his mind! There must be an explanation for these apparently contradictory events. The thought ended. A feeling of blankness held him for a moment Then came a churning wave of terror. Somewhere a voice had said: "Yes, Dr. Gloge -- there is an explanation for this!" Slowly, against his every inclination but completely unable to withstand the impulse, Dr. Gloge turned, looked back. There was someone in the seat behind him. For an instant, it seemed to be a complete stranger. Then the eyes opened. They fixed on him, glowing muted light of the jet. The woman spoke, and it was the voice of Barbara Ellington. "We have a problem. Dr. Gloge. There seems to be a group of extra-terrestrials on this planet, and I still do not have any clear idea of what they are doing here. That's our immediate task -- to find out." A dell said sharply. Her hand flicked to the right, snapped a switch. A small viewscreen on the right side of the desk m up. She said, "John -- quick! IF In the inner office, John Hammond turned, saw the lit screen on the desk behind him. An instant later he was listening to the words tumbling hoarsely from the telephone speaker on his left. He said to Helen's tense, pale profile in the screen to the right, "Where is he?" "At the Des Moines jetport! The Paris jet put down for emergency repairs. Now nobody seems to understand just what was wrong with it or what repairs are needed. But the passengers have been disembarked, are to be transferred to another jet. Arnold's in a state of confusion and shock. Listen to him!" " -- there was a woman with him," the courier's voice babbled. "At the time, I thought it was one of the passengers who had come off the jet with us. Now I'm not sure. But I simply stood there and watched Ae two of them walk out of the hall together. It never occurred to me to ask myself why this woman was with Gloge, or to stop them, or even to wonder where they were going... Hammond twisted a dial, dimming the voice. He spoke to Helen Wendell. "When did the jet come down?" "From what Arnold said first," Helen told him, "it must have been over half an hour ago! As he puts k, it didn't occur to him to call us about it until now." "'Half an hourV' Hammond came to his feet. "Helen, drop everything you're doing! I want an off-planet observer sitting in on this, preferably within minutes." She gave him a startled look. "What are you expecting?" "I don't know what to expect." She hesitated, began: "The Wardens..." "Whatever can be done here," Hammond said, "I can do myself. I don't need anyone else for that. The defense screens on the northern side will go off for exactly forty seconds. Now move!" He snapped off. the screen, reached under the desk, threw over another switch. I n the main office, Helen Wendell stared at the blank screen for a moment. Then she jumped to her feet, ran across the room to the entry door, pulled it open and slipped out into the hall. The door swung shut behind her. Some moments later, John Hammond entered the room behind hit private office where Vincent Strather lay enclosed by a trap screen, Hammond went to the wall, turned the trap controls there halfway to the off point. The screen faded into smoky near-invisibility, and he stared for a few seconds at the shape stretched out on the couch within it. He asked aloud, "There have been no further internal changes?" "None within the past two hours," the MD machine's voice said from the wall. "This form is viable?" "Yes." "He would awaken if I released the screen?" "Yes. Immediately." Hammond was silent a moment, then asked, "You have calculated the effects of a fourth injection of the serum?" #J "Yes," the machine said from the wall. "In general, what are they?" "In general," the machine said, "there would be pronounced changes end at an again greatly accelerated rate. The evolutionary trend remains the same, but would be very much advanced. The resultant form would stabilize within twenty minutes. It would again be a viable one." Hammond turned the trap screen controls full over to the left. The screen darkened once more into a dense, concealing shroud. It was too soon to make the decision to give the fourth shot. Perhaps -- mercifully -- it could be avoided altogether. xm A t half past ten, the long-distance signal sounded from the telephone screen. Hammond glanced around from the portable control box on the desk, simultaneously pressed the answer button and the stud which would leave him unseen if the caller's instrument was equipped with a viewscreen, and said, "Go ahead!" The screen remained dark, but somebody made a gasping sound of relief. "Mr. HammondV It was a reedy, quavering voice, but it was distinctly the voice of Dr, Gloge. There were two sharp clicks from one of the instruments lying on the desk -- a signal from Helen Wendell, in the observer boat standing off Earth, that she was recording llie conversation. "Where are you, Doctor?" "Mr. Hammond... something terrible... that creature... Barbara Ellington -- " "She took you off the jet, I know," Hammond said. "Where arc yon now?" "My home -- in Pennsylvania." "She went there with you?" "Yes. There was nothing I could do." "Of course not," Hammond said. "She's gone now?" "I don't know where she is. I took the chance of phoning. Mr. Hammond, there was something I didn't know, didn't remember. But she knew. I..." "You had some Omega serum in that farm laboratory?" Hammond asked. "I didn't think of it as that," Dr. Gloge's voice told him. "It was an earlier experimental variant -- one with impurities which produce a dangerously erratic reaction. I was under the impression I had destroyed my entire stock. But this being knew better! It brought me here, forced me to give it what was left of the serum. The quantity was small -- " "But enough for a standard fourth shot of the series?" Hammond said. "Yes, yes, it was sufficient for the fourth injection." "And she has now taken it as an injection?" Dr. Gloge hesitated, then he said, "Yes. However there is reason to hope that instead of impelling the evolutionary process in what I now regard as a monstrous creature on to its next stage, the imperfect serum will result in its prompt destruction." "Perhaps," said Hammond. "But IF almost since you first launcbed Barbara Ellington into Ibis process, she appears to have been aware of what was possible to her. I can't believe she's made a mistake now." "I... " Dr. Gloge paused again, went on: "Mr. Hammond, I realize the enormity of what I've done. If, in any way, I can help avert the worst consequences, I shall cooperate to the fullest extent. I -- " There was a sharp click as the connection was broken, a pause, then Helen Wendell's voice whispered into Hammond's ear, "Do you think Barbara let him make that call, then cut him off?" "Of course." Helen made no further comment, simply waited; and presently, softly, Hammond continued: "I think she wants us to know that she's coming here." "I think she's there now," said Helen. "Good-by." J ohn Hammond glanced at the control box on the desk, and saw the flickering indicators. He also saw a wholly unexpected reaction: A condition of non-energy that actually canceled energy. "Helen," he said. "This woman has gone up somewhere out of our reach! What you're seeing is energy trying to maintain itself against antienergy. I received recognition drilling on such things, but I've never seen it before in an actual situation." Helen Wendell, eyes fixed on a duplicate check screen in the distant observer boat, did not reply. A shifting electronic storm was blazing through the check-screen indicators; it showed that the defensive forces enclosing Hammond's office and living quarters were coming under a swiftly varying pattern of attack... presently that they were being tested alniost to the limit. It held that way for over a minute -- every reading almost impossibility high, barely shifting. "John Hammond!" the desk top said softly to Hammond. He jerked slightly away, eyes flicking down to it. "John Hammond!" the chair whispered beside him . "John Hammond!" "John Hammond!" "John Hammond!" "John Hammond..." His name sprang at him from every iart of the office, in a swirling, encircling pattern. Because of his special supervisory position, Hammond knew the pattern and its danger. It had never been considered probable, but nevertheless they had taken the possibility into account and so he had outside power available to deal with this emergency. He looked hurriedly about on the desk for an instrument he had laid down among the others there. For an instant, he seemed unable to recognize it, and there was an icy touch of panic. Then he realized he already held it in his hand. He ran a knob up along its side with his thumb, locked it into place, laid the instrument back on the desk. A rasping came from it. Not only a sound, but a vibration, a rough, hard shuddering of the nerves. The voice-ghosts sank to a whisper, #t flowed from the room. Helen Wendell's tiny, distant voice stabbed at Hammond's ear like a needle: "The check screen! She's leaving! Hopefully. "You're certain? "Not really." Alarm whipped at him through Helen's voice. "What does your screen show? "A subjective blur at the moment. It's clearing.' "What happened?" "I think she felt above us and so she took it for granted that she could walk all over us. Accordingly, she's just had the surprise of her brief existence as a sub-galactic super-woman. She didn't realize we represent the Great Ones." "Is she damaged?" "Oh, I wouldn't say that. She's learned too much. But... details later." Hammond blinked at the check screen, swimg around toward the door of the adjoining room, pulled it open. # # A dminister the final injection tothe subject!" he said sharply into the room. "Acknowledge!" "The fourth and final injection of the Omega Stimulation series will be administered to the subject," the machine replied. "Immediately!" "Immediately." Helen's voice reached Hammond again as he drew the door shut and came back to the desk. "At moments," she said, "the anti-energies were holding the ninety-six point of overload. Within four of the theoretical limit. Did she get to you at the energy balance?" "Very nearly," Hammond told her. A very high-energy, pseudo-hypno trick that didn't quite work. And she'll be back. I still have something she wants!" On his desk, the telephone screen blurred. When he turned it on, the voice of Dr. Gloge sounded in his ears. "We were cut off earlier, Mr. Hammond." The biologist's voice was strongly even and controlled. "What happened?" Hammond asked warily. "Mr. Hammond, I have finally analyzed what evolution really is. The universe is a spectrum. It needs energies in motion at all levels. This is why those at the higher levels do not interfere directly with individual activities at the lower. But this is also why they are concerned when a race reaches the point where it can begin to manipulate large forces. Hammond said steadily, "Barbara, if the purpose of this call is to find out if I'll let you in, yes, I will." A pause, then a click. Then there was a tiny, momentary flickering in one of the check screen indicators. Then, in a different section, another. "What's happening?" Helen asked tautly. Hammond said, "She's coming through the screens, with my permission." "Do you think it's a trick?" "In a way. For some reason, she hasn't let herself reach that theoreGloge's evolutionary scale. That may come a little later." "And you're actually letting her in, believing that?" IF #f course. Helen dkl not answer him. A minute went past in silence. Hammond shifted so that he faced the door, moved a few stqps away from the control box and the desk, and stood waiting. A small light burned red in a corner of the check screen. Something had come into the main office. The heavy sHence continued for some seconds. Then, on the hard flooring at the far end of the corridor, Hammond heard footsteps. H e coiddnt have said what he had been expecting... but certainly nothing so commonplace as the sound of a woman's high-heeled shoes coming liskly toward the inner office. She appeared in the doorway, stopped there, locdng at him. Hammond said nothing. All outer indications were diat this was the Barbara Ellington he had seen sitting in a chair in Dr. Gloge's office the night befm. Nothing had changed either in her looks or in her clothing; even the brown purse she held in one hand seemed the same. Except for the air of radiant vitality, the alertness of her stance, the keen intelligence in her face, this also was, in fact, the awkward, overanxious, lean girl who had worked in the outer office for less than two weeks. And therefore, Hammond thought it was a phantom! Not a delusion; he was protected now against any attempt to tamper with his mind in that manner by barriers which would break only if he died. The shape standing in the door was real. The instruments recorded it. But it was a shape created for this meeting -- not that of Barbara Ellington as she was at this hour. He was unsure of her intention in assuming it. Perhaps it was designed to throw him off guard. faintly, and glanced about. Hammond knew then that he hadn't been mistaken. Something had come in with her... something oppressive, spine-tingling; a sense of heat, a sense of power. turned toward him; and the smile deepened. "I'm going to have to test why you're still here, she said carelessly. "So defend yourself! There was no sound; but a cloud of white light filled the air between them, enveloping them; faded; flared silently; faded again. Both stood unmoving, each watching the other. Nothing in the office had changed. "Excellent! the woman said. "The mystery behind you begins to reveal itself. I know the quality of your race now, John Hammond. Your science could never control the order of energies that are shielding you mentally and physically here! "There should be other indications then that in extreme necessity you are permitted to employ devices created by beings greater than yourself -- devices which you do not yourself understand. And where would such devices be found at the moment?... Over there, I believe! She turned toward the door of the adjoining room, took three steps, and halted. A rose-glowing haze had appeared before the door and the surrounding sections of wall and flooring. "Yes," she said. "That comes from the same source! And here -- " She turned, moved quickly toward the control box on the desk, checked again. A rose haze also enveloped the box now. "The three points you must consider vital here!" she said nodding. "Yourself, the being in that room and the controls of the section. You may safeguard these at the expense of revealing a secret you would otherwise least want to reveal. Now I think it is time for us to exchange information." She came back to Hammond, stopped before him. "I discovered suddenly, John Hammond, that your kind are not native to Earth. You are superior to Earth's humanity, but not sufficiently superior to explain why you are here. You have an organization on this world. But it is a curious organization. It does not appear to serve the purposes of conqueror or exploiter... But let's leave It at that. Don't try to explain it. It doesn't matter. You are to release the human male who was to have received the series of serum injections with me. You and the other members of your race stationed here will then remove yourselves promptly from this planet. We have no further use for you." Hammond shook his head. iiTTe might be forced off the Vy planet," he said. "But that would make Earth an active danger spot. The Great Galactics whom I represent do have servant races who carry out military assignments for them. It would not be to your advantage if such a race were to occupy or quarantine Earth to make sure that the seedling race here continues to receive the necessary degree of supervision." "John Hammond," the womanshape said, "whether the Great Galactics send military servants to Earth or come here themselves is a matter that does not concern me in the least. It would be very unwise of them to do either. Within hours from now, the Omega serum will be available in limitless quantities. Within days, every man, woman, and child of Earth will have gone through the full evolutionary sequence. Do you think Earth's new humanity could still be supervised by any other race?" "The Omega serum will never be used again," Hammond said. "I'll show you why..." Hammond turned, went to the control box on the desk. The rose haze faded before him, appeared behind him again. He threw a switch and the haze vanished. He turned away from the controls. "The energy fields that kept you out of that room are being shut off," he said. "In a moment, the door will open. So see for yourself -- the barriers are off." Except for the blazing blue of the eyes, her face was a cold mask. Hammond thought she must already know what was there. But she turned, went to the open door, and stood looking into the room. Hammond moved to the side of the desk IF where he could look past her... The energy trap enclosing the couch in the room had vanished. The dark thing on the couch was just sitting up. It shook its head dazedly, rolled over and came up on all fours. Its huge, dull-black eyes stared at them for an instant; then it straightened, rose to its full height... To a full height of twenty-two inches I It swayed imsteadily on the couoh -- a hairy little figure with a wide-mouthed, huge-eyed gobMn head. Its eyes blinked in vague recognition. The mouth opened. It cried in a thin, bleating voice: "Bar-ba-ral" XV T he woman wheeled, turning away. She did not look back at the grotesque little figure. a faint smile touched her lips as she gazed at Hammond. "All right," she said, "there goes my last tie with earth. I accept what you said. I gather dKit the Omega serum is a unique development and that it hasn't shown up elsewhere in the galaxy." "That is not a Htal truth," said Hammond. She nodded toward the acoining room. "Then perhaps you can tdl me what went wrong." Hammond told her Gloge's twofold theory: that at this stage of man's evolution many possibilities remained for evolvement, and that appsuently the serum stimulated one of these and thereafter was bound by natural law to follow that line of development. As he talked, he waif watching her, and he was thinking: This problem isn't resolved. How are we going to deal with herV He sensed an almost incredible strength, an actual, palpable force. It poured from her in a steady stream of power. He continued tensely: "The Great Galaotics, when planting their seed on a new planet, have never interfered with the basic characteristics of the various races that live there. They interject selected bundles of their own genes by grafting into thousands of men and women on every continent. As the generaticms go by, these bundles intermix by chance with those that arc native to the people of the planet. Apparently, the Omega serum stimulates one of these mixtures and carries it forward to whatever it b capable of, which, because of the singularity factor, usually leads to a dead end." "The singularity factor -- ?" Her words were a question. Men, Hammond explained, were born of the union of a man and a woman. No one person carried more than a portion of mankind's genes. As time passed, the interaodon and mterrelation of ril the genes occurred; the race progressed because bfllions of chance mteimixings of different bundles took place. In Vince, one such bundle had been stirred, been whipped up to its cdtunate point by repeated Omega Stimulation -- but evidently that particular bundle had strictly limited possibilities, as would always be the case when a single person was bred, so to speak, with himself... the singularity factor. And that was what had happened to Vince and herself. They were products of the most fantastic inbreeding ever attempted -- life surviving through one line, a kind of incest carried to some ultimate sterility, fantastic, interesting, freakish. ii'VTou are wrong," said the womI an-shape softly. "I am not a freak. So what has happened here is even more improbable than I have realized. In myself, it was the galactic seedling bundle of genes that was stimulated. Now, I understand what it was I contacted out in space. One of them. And he let me. He understood instantly." She added, "One more question, John Hammond. Omega is an unusual term. What does it mean?" "... When man becomes one with the ultimate, that is Point Omega." It seemed to Hammond that, even as he finished speaking, she was growing remote, withdrawing from him. Or was it that it was he who was withdrawing? Not only from her but from everything -- drifting away, not in any spatial sense, but, HI some curious fashion, away from the reality of the entire universe? The brief thought came that this Aould be an alarming and disturbing experience. Then the thought itself was forgotten. "There is something occurring," her voice was telling him. "In the small thing behind the door, the Omega evolutionary process is completed, in its fashion. In me, it is not completed -- not quite. "But it is being completed now... H e was nowhere and nothing. New word-impressions, new thought impressions came suddenly and swept through him like the patter of rain. The impressions took form. It was later in time. He seemed to be standing in the small room next to his office, looking down at the lanky, redheaded young man sitting groggily on the edge of the couch holding his head. "Coming out of it, Vince?" Hammond asked. Vincent Strather glanced uncertainly up at him, ran his hand over the jagged rent in the sleeve of his jacket. "I guess so, Mr. Hammond," he muttered. "I... what happened?" "You went for a drive tonight," Hammond told him, "with a girl named Barbara Ellington. You'd both been drinking. She was driving... driving too fast. The car went off a highway embankment, turned over several times. Witnesses dragged you to safety minutes before the car burst into flames. The girl was dead. They didn't attempt to save her body. When the police informed me of the accident, I had you brought here to Research Alpha." As he spoke, he had the stunning realization that everything he was saying was true. The accident had happened late that evening, in exactly that manner. "Well..." Vince began. He broke IF oft, sighed, shook his head. Fa was an odd gbl. A wfld one! I was pretty fond of her oooe, Mr. Hanunond. Lately, I've been trying to break off with her." Hammond received the kire#sion that much more had happened. Automatically, he looked back through the open door as the private telephone in the inner office signaled. "Excuse me," he said to Vince. As he flicked on the instrument, Helen Wendell's face appeared on the phone screen. She gave him a brief smile, asked, "How is Strather?" Hammond didn't reply at once. He looked at her, feeling cold, eerie crawlings over his scalp. Helen was seated at her desk in the outer office. She was not in a aceboat standing off die planet. He heard himself say, "He's all right. There is veiry little emotional shock... How about you?" 'T'm disturbed by Barbara's death," Hden admitted. "But now I have Dr. Gioge on the phone. He's qmte anxious to talk to you." Hammcmd said, "All right. Put him on." "hfr. Hammond," Dr. Gloge's voice said a moment later, this is in connectidn with the Point Omega Stimulation project. I've been going over all my notes and conclusions on these experiments, and I'm convinced that once you understand the extraordinary dangers which might result if the details of my experiments became known, you will agree dutt the project should be closed out and any records referring to it destroyed at once." After switching off the phone, he remained for a while at the desk. S o that part of the problem also had been solved! The last traces of the Omega scrum were being wiped out, woidd.soon linger only in his nxtnd. And for how long there? Perhaps no more dian two or three hours, John Hammond dcdkled. The memory pictures were paling; he had a feeling that sections of ttm already had vanished. And there was an odd, trembling uncertainty about what was left... thin, colored mind-oanvas being tugged by a wind whkii presently would carry it off -- He had no objections, Hanunood told himsdf. He had seen one of the Great Ones, and k was not a memory that it was good for a lesser being to have. Somehow, it hurt to be so much less. He must have slept For he awoke suddenly. He f vaguely bewfldered, for no reason that he could imagine. Helen came in, smiling. "Don't you think it's time we closed up for the night. You're working too long hours again." "You're right," Hammond nodded. He got iq and went into the room next to the office to tell Vincent Strather he was free to go home. #S IF  Short Story E gon lashed the tiller but let the little atomic jet go on driving the heavy dugout slowly toward the morning sun. He stood up, breathing in deeply, feeling the muscles ripple under his drying deerhide clout. The wind was rich with sea tang and the savory smell of the fish that Cala was frying over a brazier. His mouth was already watering as he went forward to take a plate from her. In the bow, old Herndon was nibbling with more relish than he had shown for months. The mark of approaching death was heavy on the emaciated face of the last earthman, but it was relaxed now, as if the pain from the malignancy had finally ceased. He made room for Egon beside him, shredding the fish with a willow fork. "The seas are fertile again, like the land. Only we -- " He sighed, He was the last Earthman of all -- even though he came from the farthest of starsl then made a tired shrug. "Could any world be as beautiful or bountiful as this mother planet, Egon?" "No, Herndon. Certainly not bountiful." But it was Egon's turn to sigh as he remembered the red winds over the plains of Dale and the forests beyond that had gleamed pale in the double moonlight. And there were the roofed cities filled with people who had gone a thousand years beyond the final culture of the Earth. Yet his words had been true; there was no bounty to Dale or the other settled planets. The seeds men had carried with them had all died before means could be found to make them adapt. The native growths were poisonous or foul. Food had to be synthesized there from the raw elements. It was almost twenty years since Egon had climbed out of the wreckage of lib Mb ptanet-pfospecdfig flihip after tiie exfosion of his motor had forced him to land here. And even now, his night dreams were filled with the people and cities of Dale and the synthetic feasts at his mother's table. H erndon had stopped toying whh his food and sat watching the faint wake where the little tender bobbed along on a line behind them. "And you say they've forgotten earth out there, Egon? They've mislaid the world that bore them?" "There's a vague legend of a mother world, but we're taught it was destroyed completely," Egon told him for the hundreddi time. "I suppose the location was forgotten during the first centuries of taming the new planets." The old man swung about to face forward where he could sweep his eyes over die deserted sea. He nodded sadly to himself. "Yes, they must have forgotten. If they remembered only a Mtde of this, they'd be back." Egon went aft to the tiller while the guUs swooped down and fought over what Gala scraped frcMn the plates. The atomic jet purred on. It was one of die few things he had been able to make from the salvage of Ms wrecked p. The ore was a smudge behkid them and ahead he thought he could just see the ruined Ember Stake projecting from the sea that had buri it so long ago. Ahead, Herndon was telling bits of the past to the ever-silent Gala, and Egon filled it in from all the times he had heard the tale. The stories he'd learned as a cMld were at least partly true. A thousand years before, a key discovery made fastcr-than-light travel to the stars simpler than rocket flight to the moon and also showed a simple way to convert mass dkectly to energy. stars within a decade, and the Great Age began. It ended. An unthinkable global war broke out, powered by material energy. Its violence was enough to change the climate permanently, until now the polar ice was gone and the former coast mc lay more than three hundred feet below sea level. Despite the legends of Dale, Earth survived and most of its life went on. Only man faied. Somehow, tens of thousands survived and were gathered together to start anew. But the old fccimdity Ind been destroyed by some mutatioa that revealed itself slowiy as too few viable children were bom. When Egon landed, only nine adults and a chfld named Gala were left to find him. Now there was only Gala. The sun rose steadily as the dugout drove on. Ahead of him, Egon could see clearly the wreck of Ember Stake and the projections of other buddings tfaaf had once towered Mgh over a dty called New York. Hie saw Gala open her mouth silently now as if to intone old chants. She began to genuflect as they drew nearer. She was doing the tmhtional reverence to the Guardian, without seeming to care that old Herndon beside her was the Bving man her people had worshipped so long. He was the Cold Sleeper provided by the scientists after the holocaust, meant to revive from his suspended animation high in Ember Stake and bring mankind back to its ancient glories. He was the man who slept for a thousand years -- until Egon accompanied the annual pilgrimage and found the faulty mechanism that had failed and repaired it. Now, after nineteen years of futility, he was going back to his ancient resting place only to die. He was the last earthman, sitting beside a sterile girl. E gon shut off the jet and let the dugout drift to a stop as the ancient pile of ruin reared high above him. He could not trust the boat too close where jagged metal girders might lie below the surface. Then he sat for a moment staring at the tip of the building, trying to picture it as it had been described. Earth had been proud once, he thought. Men had never built like this elsewhere. Even when lower gravity might have made it easier. He pulled the little tender up and turned to help Herndon as the old man moved back to the stern. But the earthman shook his head, motioning to Cala, whose eyes were burning eagerly. "Let her go first," he said. "Now that we're here. I'm in no hurry. And my presence would only make mockery of her ritual." Egon nodded. "Go ahead, Cala." She was over the side of the dugout at once, carrying her little bundle of tribute. Then she began paddling toward the entnmce hole in a slow, ancient rhythm. She stopped from time to time to make obeisance and mouth silent chants. It seemed to take her forever to cover the first hundred feet. There was a fond but wry smile on the old man's pale face as he watched her. "Maybe I'm no better, Egon. But sentimentality grows as the hours shorten. I've come back to worship the past in my own way and die among my relics." "I understand," Egon' told him. But there would be no friend to ferry him back to the ashes of his fathers and the altars of his gods on Dale when his time came. There was no star-spanning dugout ready for him. He shook off his thoughts and went forward for his fish spear. By the time the girl returned, they would all be hungry again. He checked the wire wrapping of the tip and the well-greased shaft automatically, then leaped lightly overboard. Swimming had been a horror to him at first, a thing unknowable on dry Dale. But now he caught his breath without thinking and went downward into the clear green depths, driving himself with easy, powerful strokes of his legs. The water slid over him, resisting him and buoying him as free fall could never do. He turned and rose, caught his breath, and dropped again. It was only after several minutes that he bothered to look for prey. The waters were rich. He found his choice almost at once. A moment later he was over the rail with his prize. IF He saw the thing before Herndon's scream registered on his ears. It was high above the Ember Stake, slanting majestically through the air with a metallic glint in the sunlight. A spaceship for colonists, here on Earth! T he dugout suddenly lurched into motion toward the tower, almost throwing Egon overboard. He twisted, to see Herndon pounding at the controls and screaming protests. But the old man wasn't looking at the ship. He was staring at the tip of the ruined tower. There was movement there. Something thin and sharp slid from a hidden opening and was swinging out to point at the ship. Then it found its aim and came to rest. Nothing seemed to emerge from the weapon. But the engine room of the ship at the rear suddenly exploded outwards and bits of motors began blowing away and down. The ship lurched into a tumbling dive, before the little atmospheric ion jets could cut on. "Automatic missile killer -- seeks and triggers material energy motors," Btemdon cded as Egon grabbed the controls. "I .thought they were all rained. My fault, Egon, my faultl" "They aren't dead yet," Egon shouted back. He was driving for the tower, paying no attention to any submerged danger. The ship was onAy tumbling slightly now, but it would land too far west for him to see clearly, except from the higher tower. He knew now what must have wrecked his own ship, though he had been higher when it happened. And from his own experience, he knew that the weapon was harmless against living tissue. He grounded the dugout carelessly against the entrance to the Ember Stake and sprang through the breached wall to the old stairway the pilgrims had used. He shouted for Herndon to wait, but heard the old man puffing behind him. Then he was in the Guardian room, staring westward. He could just make out the great splash as the ship touched water, then heard Herndon beside him and felt binoculars thrust into his hand a minute later. The ship was floating, though it could not remain up long. But like most colonist ships, it was equipped better than freighters. Through the binoculars, Egon saw inflated rafts thrown out, and tiny figures beginning to emerge. There were twenty of the rafts paddling toward the distant northern shore when the great ship finally went under. "They're alive -- at least most of them," he reported. He heard Herndon's breath catch in a choking gasp, felt the old man relax back away from him. "Thank GodI" he heard. When he finally looked back from the retreating rafts, the last earthman was dead, still smiling through a froth of blood, slumped against the mechanism that had kept him frozen for a millenium. And Gala had come to them, staring in shock and doubt. There was little Egon could do for this oldest and longest friend of his. He wiped the emaciated face, composed the limbs, and began moving the body into die freezer-sarcophagus. Seeing this, Gala seemed to reorient herself and began helping. Egon turned on the freezer, bent his head, and felt a wordless sob tear in his throat as his only farewell. Gala began backing from the room, and he joined her without thinking, genuflecting at the door with her. Then there was no time for any thoughts except for the rafts and the men there. Egon caught Gala's hand and drew the mute girl with him back to the dugout. Getting back through the near wreckage took longer than the heedless trip in. It was a quarter hour before the boat was moving west again at full speed, heading for where the rafts had left the spaceship. The sun was already beginning to sink again. There was a wind from the shore, bringing a faint smdl of pine to enrich the tang of the sea. T here was almost no sign of the ship, now probably lying in fifty fathoms of water. Only a few tiny bits of meaningless wreckage were still afloat. Gala caught one up suddenly, and he saw that it was a thin plastic bag. At her puzzlement, he reached forward and opened it. It must have been hastily packed by one of the intended colonists, then somehow dropped. There was a dental gilder, a box, and a small book of color pictures. Dale! The scenes were of Dale, Egon saw. Then he frowned, almost doubting his own identification as he stared at the drab plains' sunset and the scenes of men and women in the almost familiar urban surroundings. Dale seemed changed, the people thin and lackluster in spite of the garish new fashions. Then he realized his error and grunted in selfdisgust. In twenty years, his mental picture had chang. He had even added beards and bulging muscles to the friends in his mind, conditioned by what he had grown to accept here. Gala leafed through the pictures and tossed the book overboard before he could stop her. She opened the box and smelled its contents doubtfully. "Food," Egon told her. "It's good food, very nourishing. Try it." She obeyed at once as he reached for one of the lozenges he had remembered so long and longingly. For a moment, his childhood rush back as it began dissolving on his tongue. Gala gagged and spat, bending over to rinse her mouth with sea water. The box followed the pictures into the Atlantic. Egon started to protest, then shrugged. Adults could never recapture the experience of childhood, it seemed. The lozenge was cloying with sweetoess and too spicy. He sucked it a few seconds more, then let it fall into the sea. They drove on silently after the rafts. It was early twilight when they reached the shore and the crescent moon was rising in the east. For a moment, sorrow for his old friend alone out there struck at Egon, but he forced it aside and began docking the dugout at the little shelter he and the last earthman had built. He IF drew his bow and quivers from oiled leather cases and moved with Gala toward the woods that bordered the tiny beach here. There was no sign of the rafts, of course. They had been driven by paddles in unfamiliar hands, and the sea drift must have carried them almost a mile from his dock. The wind was fragrant with the acrid scent of damp oak leaves and the fainter cleanness of maple as he found the old path that led to the other cove. They came on wild strawberries, and he stooped with Gala to gather a few, letting the musky, tempered sweetness dissolve on his tongue. Somewhere an owl hooted, early awake and probably hungry. Further back in the hills there was a cough that could only be a cougar, moving with feline grace. He felt his own blood surge a bit, and his feet moved silently against the fragrant earth as he approached the. path where deer sometimes came down to the little rivulet. The stranded colonists would have to be fed, he remembered, though that was no problem on Earth. He was in .luck. A young buck was drinking as Egon came up so quietly that the animal never startled. The bow tautened with life and then snapped forward resonantly as the arrow sped true and deep. The buck gave a single bound before Gala was on it, slitting its throat. Egon dressed it hastily and tossed the heavy load over his shoulder to resume his course at a steady trot, breathing evenly and deeply. T he men were camped where he had expected. There were perhaps a hundred in male dress and twice as many women, enough to start a new colony on some far world, and there was evidence m their foppish fashions to show that they all were from Dare. They watched the woods with scared eyes, but there were m guards. No one spotted Egon anil Gala against the trees. Most were slumped on the ground, and he heard their complaints over fatigue at the few hours of rowing and their desperation at being stranded without supplies. They seemed a hopeless lot, already giving up. But a few, with some in uniform, had started a sickly fire and were obviously taking a tally of provisions. Egon headed for them, drawing startled cries from those who saw him. He walked past the outskirts, carrying the buck, to face a man in captain's jacket who was just getting to his feet. "You'll need a better fire and some decent food," Egon told the man. "I've brought meat. Gala will show you how to cook it while I go back for another. But you can stop worrying about starving here." The captain let his half-drawn weapon slide back and came closer, staring with a mixture of faint hope and disgust at the deer. "Where are we?" he asked. "And who are you?" "This is Earth," Egon told him. And suddenly he smiled as he swept his eyes across the dark forest and toward the moon over the sea. "Earth. And I am the last earthman. IF  Novelette by D. M. This was what Mars was fike -- tough, mean and deadly! T he sand car red to a stop at the edge of the sand flat. Soberly, the driver looked out over the broad, bright expanse of sand. He had walked the deserts of Earth and had seen the deserts of Mercury, but he had never lost his feeling of wonder at these deserts which, but for these few midday hours, were deadly cold. There was a flutter of movement at his breast pocket and a flat, silky head popped out, peering up with bright, intelligent eyes. Tlio man smiled. "Thirsty, youngster?" The yoimgster wriggled. It was a rock puppy, orphaned by someone's careless or callous heat blast the day before, hi on the rim of the last deep. The man poured a few drops of water into the palm of his hand and the silky head nuzzled and drank. Then they both peered out at the yellow expanse of sand. This flat could be crossed. He knew the way. But it would be reckless, and moss hunters are reckless only in their dealings with each other. Going around would mean two full days of rtop-and-go, draining power and letting it build up again. Frowning, he lifted his mask. A moss hunter, long exposed to this thin air between the deeps, could do that and stay alert, for a few minutes. The man scowled, checking power and oxygen. "The odds are long," he muttered finally. "Let's play it safe." But he continued to stare, frowning thoughtfully, and finally he leaned back. "On the other hand, Buster, I've a hunch we can make it. I might have to walk some, but you don't weigh much." He pressed a thumb to the switch plate. The motor whined and the sand car lurched, its big, meter-wide balloons sloughing flabbily over the sand. The man relaxed, thinking of hot rum and low laughter at First Landing. Now and then he checked the dials. No power, now, even to the compressor which charged his oxygen flask. That could wait for richer air, in the low country. And he was almost warm. Sundown would bring cold -- real cold. But now he was, for a moss hunter, almost comfortable. And his hunch they would make it without trouble was strong. Tresently he dozed, ignoring thea chill that gradually seeped through his coverall. He used as little oxygen as would keep him awake, as little in proportion as the orphan in his pocket was using from its own organically stored supply. So it was nearly an hour before he was certain that the figure ahead -- the figure that wavered, rose and fell -- was not just illusion but a man, a man walking and so doomed certainly to die. He locked radar on the staggering figure. The silky head again popped out of his coverall pocket. The figure fell again and lay prone, and the front balloon had covered a booted foot when the radar cut the switch. He backed clear and propped the figure against the balloon. It was then that he saw it was not a man but a woman -- hardly, by what he could see through her mask, more than a girl. And she was new to the deserts and the deeps. Hands and face were still unmarked by sand burns and dessication. And it would have taken a well grown woman with earth-gravity strength to have walked this far into the desert. He fed her a dollop of oxygen, and her laboring lungs quieted. He shook his head at the pleading look after the first quick swallows of water. "Later. We'll breathe deep and drink deep when we get to low ground." The girl nodded, smiling weakly. "Up on the seat with you," he said. "I'll walk as much as I can and ride the step to rest. There'll be power to get us to low air." Soon he lost track of time. Again and again he stumbled, slow to recover, and the car rolled on until the switch, keyed to his heart beat, cut out. He would not set the controls to circle and return. Back on the step he would ride and rest, until the blurred reserve power dial, rocking toward the red, forced him to grip his mouthpiece and step off. He was staggering, nearly exhausted, when finally the sand car stopped again, this time with the panel beeping quietly and the radar winking "On Objective." Their oxygen was nearly gone, but the power dials gave them a margin, slim, but a margin. He even cut in the heaters for a few costly seconds. The girl's head lifted and she opened her eyes. He saw anxiety in her look, but he pointed to a break in the rim where a clear path angled down deep into the canyon. The air thickened, and finally was rich and breathable. They were too tired to talk. But die girl looked again and again back up the path. At the floor of the deep, thousands of feet below the rim, they came to a shelter, built around an as yet unfrozen spring. "We made it," the man said tiredly. "Relax. We're all right now." The girl was silent, but she had a cracked, painful smile for the rock puppies who watched, bright eyed, but soon scampered, chittering, out of the shelter, ducking their heads and rolling like ermine soccer balls out of sight into the rocks. The man lifted the baby from his pocket. It clung for a moment to his wrist and then it, too, tucked nose and feet out of sight and rolled away after the others. He punched the charge buttons to throw the full output of the car's pile into the power pack.  He handed the girl a tide of bum lotion and motioned to the spring. "After you've washed off the sand," he said. "And we'll have some hot concentrate in a few minutes." The girl took the tube, watching every move. The man shrugged irritably. "For pete's sake, relax! We're out of it!" Presently she returned, to lean back against the softness of the sand car balloon. Warm and thick, hot concentrates made them drowsy even as it built up their strength. Abruptly, it was dark. n A t first light the man was rubbing his eyes, yawning, when a sharp "snick-click" brought him into the black muzzle of an old issue automatic. The girl stood by the sand car, looking white and determined, but her band was steady. He sat very still. "All right," he said. "You do the talking." "I need the sand car," she said. "And this, of course, is out of sheer gratitude!" The girl flushed. "I am grateful. But I have to go on, alone. So don't make me shoot." He watched, speculating. He carried a lot of weapon for this gravity. Not many with Mars-muscles could handle an Earth weight heat gun with any speed. Reaction time would -- probably -- let him snap off a broad beam which could not miss and still roll aside before she fired. Her eyes were wide, frightened. Don't make me shoot, please I" The "please" was only implied, but it was there. 'T've already hurt one man, possibly killed him. I don't want to do it again." "This is the same -- just slower." She shook her head. "You won't be alone here long." Carefully he put his weapon on the ground, rolled clear and came to his feet. At her gesture he stepped back. His eyes went over her, head to boots. She wore a new coverall of some improved plastic, new type oxygen mask slung at her throat. There was no holster. The clips at her belt were obviously for tools. "You're not a moss hunter," he said flatly. "And the only women hijackers I know of stay inside the domes. Who are you?" "My name wouldn't mean anything to you. But I'm an archeologist." "Not right now I Who are you running from?" She flushed. "I'm not a thief. And I'm running from some of your friends. And from you. You all look alike." "We all get that broiled look," he said wryly. "But we're not all alike." She steadied the gun. "No! Why should you help me. Anyway, there are a dozen of them, so what could two of us do? Now will you fix that switch?" He grinned "So you've tried it!" He was aware, vaguely, that the rock puppies were back -- a growing, bright-eyed circle, watching silently He pushed through them absently and they scampered aside, to close in after him, curious as chipmunks. At the sand car he looked at the girl and measured the distance to the nearest cover. The rock puppies chittered, and one little one bounced to the seat of the car and then to his wrist. He shrugged, placed a thumb over the switch, turning a dial with the other hand. A hinged plate dropped. He took a key from his coverall and turned an inner lock. "I'm the only one who could have done that. The panel would have flared and taken off your hand. But you can use it now." H e stepped away and the giri started the car down the path, the big balloons slapping on the loose shale. The rock puppies scampered and bounced after her. After a few yards she stopped and placed the man's gun and oxygen flask on a rock by the path. "I'll leave the car at First Landing, if I get that far." When she was gone he retrieved his weapon and waited. Presently the rock puppies returned, to roll into a brightly expectant circle around him. "Bucket heads!" he grumbled at them. But they only wriggled and ohittered, and presently he started flipping pebbles at them. They scampered and rolled, returning always to roll back the pebbles and reform their circle. He watched them absently. Bxcept for men, and now, he thought wryly, women, they were the only warm-blooded life in the deeps. And unlike men, they harmed no one. Why was it, he wondered. IF that no matter where you went, the fur people were, by and large, usually nicer than the skin people? And why couldn't these little guys, who harmed no one, be protected? Territorial Government, he knew, talked of policing the deeps, to stop the hijacking and protect the puppies. But Pearsall said flatly it wasn't practical yet. It would take too many men, too much rocket-freighted material, both needed urgently elsewhere. So, for the foreseeable future, the Bureau would simply continue to buy moss, no questions asked, so long as the moss hunters took their credits and spent them with moderately good behavior at the domes before dropping back into the deeps. So, but for the technicians and archeologists who worked the mines and the ruins in the high deserts, the moss hunters were still the only Marsmen. The moss hunters had come early. When the first of the silvery ships had thundered in, the men at the screens saw only the rioting beauty of the deserts, hinted but not revealed by the photographs sent back years before when the probes drifted silently past. Then the men moved out from the ships and found the rainbow sands were deadly. It was a long time before they learned to live outside the ships and the first, primitive domes. But there was a way... For slashed across the lands lay the pattern of the deeps -- wideflung gorges which within themselves, in places, contained deserts and mountains. And in the deepest sections, in the cuts of ancient rivers and the coves of ancient lakes, the deeps held breathable air and springs of clear water. So while the men fanning out from the domes found only ruins in the deserts, in the deeps they found life -- green, clinging life -- lowbranched, leafy life -- furry, scampering life. And with the clinging life they found the lichens, clinging here and there to the crinison rocks of the deeps. The lichens brought the moss hunters. From them, purified but so far impossible to synthesize, came a substance which would lengthen the days of life. So, drawn by promise of gain or seeking a way and a place to hide, the moss hunters came and stayed and searched. A nd from the beginning the search took on a strange and inexplicable pattern. For most found little. Yet some had luck in abundance and a few, luck which was phenomenal. No one knew why. The lucky ones shrugged. Playing hunches they said, and believed it. But the lucky ones had had to learn to hold what they found in any way they could. The deeps were without law, and there was, for the lucky and unlucky alike, small chance of return. Once committed to low gravity and no law, most of the moss hunters lived out their ays in the deeps. And that, the man reflected, was a lonely way of life. And even if a heat blast or the high deserts didn't get you, it was likely to be a short life. Men died in inexplicable falls and rock slides. And some just disappeared. He, himself, he thought wryly, was on borrowed time. Lucky Hansen, they called him. But his luck couldn't hold forever. He waited, flipping pebbles idly with the scampering rock puppies, and ruffling the fur of one youngster who clung, a chattering ball of silky fur, to his wrist. He grinned at them. He called them bucket heads, but they had the beaver's instinct for engineering. They couldn't move much uphill. But he had seen where they had moved fabulous weights down hill placed as precisely as a beaver fells a tree. He liked them. More than once, it seemed, they had brought him luck. Presently the band scattered, and the little fellow at his wrist, whom he suspected was Buster, let go, tucked nose and feet out of sight, and bounced swiftly away. Soon the man, too, heard the crush of balloons on the path. There were a dozen of them, moss hunters, bitter old pros with burned, wrinkled faces and dried out skins. They watched suspiciously, looking around for his equipment. A big man with a beefy face and wide shoulders hawked and spat and growled, "You alone?" The man nodded. "Where's your sand bug?" "Hijacked." "Girl, with a baby face and Earthside muscles?" "She looked it. I didn't reach past her gun to see." The wide-shouldered man snorted. "We've been trailing you. It doesn't figure. An old mossback picks her off the high ground but then lets her hijack him I" The man smiled and shrugged. "So I'm a liar. You can say that once. Maybe even twice. But I notice your friend there is nursing a broken arm, and by the looks of his throat I'll bet he took a judo chop." The injured man grimaced, made a strangling sound, and dropped his good hand. T he big man turned. "I'll handle this," he grated. Then he turned back, looking the man over from head to boot. "I've seen you around the domes," he went on. "By your looks, you've been in and out of these deeps a long time. But you haven't let your belly sag from high living in low gravity. You just might be Bart Hansen." The man nodded. "I might." There was a stir, and someone guffawed. "Lucky Hansen! Waylaid! Probably the other way around, Spear, and he just sent her on the way. She's the kind could..." Hansen smiled coldly, and his hand moved with unhurried certainty to his belt. "I've been called a liar twice now.' It became very still. Spear scowled blackly. But presently he brought empty hands into sight. "All right. All right. You're Hansen, and the lady stole your sand car." There was little talk, although they all watched Hansen furtively as he sat unmoving by the shelter. Some took quick pulls at flasks of concentrate, but mostly they just rested. One, spotting an old rock puppy perched on a boulder across the path reached for a short-barreled IF itfle. He found himself staring into flie faintly glowing grid of Hansen's hand gun. "Let him alone or you'll lose the rifle and maybe your hand!" There was the start of an uproar. Spear squelched it, bellowing, "Dammit, there'll be time for target practice later! Waste of ammunition anyway. Let's go!" Hansen put away his weapon. "Your trigger happy friend here has a new model car." Spear nodded. "Out of the last shipment pushed up from Vandenberg. New type pile. More range." "I could ride the step on that one. I'd like to get my own back." Spear frowned. "I won't slow you down. And I know the way." SpeculativelySpear nodded. "I hear you do. This a dead end deep?" "It leads out, eventually, if you know the forks, to First Landing. It narrows considerably before the climb." Spear rubbed his chin. "You're one of the lucky ones, Hansen. Maybe the luckiest of all. You could rub some of it off on us. The boys and I work together. We pool our moss, and we keep trespassers out of the deeps we work. It might be easier for you to join us than to buck us. Interested?" Hansen surveyed the dozen hard faces. "I'd have to think about it." Spear waved expansively. "Do that. Aside from puppy popping and a few other such habits Squinty here isn't a bad guy. Ride the step with him and think on it." F or most oi the day they traveled in silence. Here and there the trace of the girl's sand car showed. Hansen was relieved to see that at the only turn off where there could be real doubt as to her direction she had taken the proper fork. She was keeping ahead of them, but she was moving too fast for economy. Presently, Hansen nudged the man Squinty and motioned for him to pull up front, beside Spear. "Spear," he asked, over the sloughing of the balloons. "Why do you want this girl? There are women at First Landing." Spear laughed harshly, and Squinty snickered. "None like her!" Then Spear's mouth hardened and he scowled. "You saw what she did to Squinty, here. And there wasn't any need for it!" Hansen laughed. "I'll bet! And the poor, defenseless girl was so freshly one G she didn't know her own strength!" Spear scowled and blustered. "Nobody, man or dame, makes a fool out of me or my boys. I lock after my boys!" Hansen's retort was cut short as a shot cracked thinly. Rock chips from a spot six inches from Spear's head showered into their faces. Spear swore and sprawled. Hansen laughed, but he, too, rolled like a rock puppy to a vantage point behind a rock. Another shot cracked and spattered as Spear crawled up beside him. Hansen grinned. "Here's where you start looking after your boys again." Spear only muttered, peering up the gorge. Hansen went on. "There's my sand bug up ahead. Power pack is down, or she wouldn't have stopped. But I'll bet the water tank is dry, too, and my thermos is with her, full. She'll be up beyond that talus slope with nothing to lose by staying right there.' Spear glared at him. "She'll stay. Even with one G muscles she can't get far on foot. She knows that much by now, anyway." Another shot cracked, and again Spear ducked and blinked. Hansen brushed dust from his eyes. "She knows something else, too, Spear. How to use that old issue automatic of hers. In a steady hand they're more useful here than heat." The others had all scattered to cover. Spear sat still, cursing and watching. He stared at Hansen's sand car, sitting apparently undamaged up the path. "How do you know she's got water and food?" "I don't. And I'm not about to walk over there and check. But a woman would have to be several cuts over average, mental and physical, to be sent up here for her kind of work. So she's smart and she's as strong as any two of us. And if she disappears, or you keep her here, there will be questions asked sooner or later. She isn't just another broken down crewman, hoping to get rich. Be sensible, man! Let her alone!" S pear only cursed. Hansen watched and listened, knowing well the type. Pride and face were involved now. Hansen surveyed the rocky slope above. "You're in for a siege, Spear. Want me to see if I can talk her out of it?" Spear grunted suspiciously, and shook his head. "I got a score to settle with that high-headed snob!" "So what? If I try and get shot you're no worse off than now!" Spear surveyed the talus slope, his face working with frustration. "We sure could rush her!" he muttered. "You sure could. And she'd sure charge admission!" Spear let out his breath. "All right. Try, if you're fool enough. She hasn't made you look any too bright, either. You talk her down from there and we'll work out something." Hansen's heart pounded as he pushed back the hood of his coverall. He called out, "Listen! I'm the man from the sand flat. I want to talk!" Then he spread empty hands and rose slowly to his feet. The first seconds would tell. But there was no shock from a hollow-point bullet, nor the "who-o-withhhh" of a near was no longer there. He hoped she would talk. If she had run, little could be done. But he had the glimmer of a plan, a vague hunch forming out of nowhere in the back of his mind. He moved slowly, his hands in sight. He thought he knew where she had chosen to hide. If he was right she had chosen well. He made for it, looking back now and then. Spear's crew was well hidden back down the path, but there was no way up except in the open, and no way around. He froze when a voice snapped, "Far enough!" IF Hansen kept his voice low. Could you use some help?" "You still look just like the rest of them!" "Of cx)urse I do! And in most ways, I am! But listen to me. Do you know Andrews, from the University of California? He dug last summer in the southern catacombs." "Yes. I know him." "Well, I took him there, and brought him back." "You're Lucky Bart Hansen?" "I'm Hansen, and I have to come in there with you, or go back to them, now!" Her whisper barely reached him. "Come in, Mr. Hansen, please." Ill H e scrambled up beside her. SShe had thrown back the hood of her coverall and thick, dark hair hung to her shoulders. Her oval face was streaked with dirt, but it was a handsome face, and strong, with high cheek bones and a firm chin. Fear showed only in her eyes. "Why didn't you tell me?" "You held the gun and you were determined to run. Would you have listened?" "No, .I guess not. I was close to panic. I still am. This whole thing is insane. Things like this just don't happen. I feel like I was in the middle of a Tri-D Video thriller!" Hansen sobered. "It's happening, all right, for real. But we'll find a way out." He looked around. She had, indeed, chosen well. She had found a rock puppy arena, a play area, flat. ringed with boulders. He could see where the larger ones had been rolled in from above, placed precisely. The narrow rollways between the boulders allowed a wide field of vision. The immaculate little beasts had cleared away dirt and rubble, leaving a clean, flat floor. He smiled at her. "Nice place. Homey." She smiled back, tautly at first Then the smile spread and was lost in her eyes. "I like it. Might spend the rest of my life in it. But the rock puppies moved out. They scolded at me for a while, when I was thinking things over. Then they scattered, all but that big fellow over there. He just watches me." Then, thinly, Spear's coarse beL low drifted up to them. "Hansen! She there?" "She's here." "Well? What's she have to say?" "Says she likes it here. So do I." There was an angry buzz of talk. Spear's bellow lifted above it. "Heard a lot about you, Hansen. But I never heard it said you were stupid. I can't blame you for playing up that one. But we'll take you. Both of you!" A shot spattered dust, and a heat ray glowed redly. Spear called again. "You'll get thirsty, Hansen. And cold. Think on that!" The girl's eyes were questioning. "He's right, isn't he? If they keep us here?" Hansen nodded. "He's right. If they keep us here." "But how can we get away. It's not possible." n "Maybe it is. If we're careful, and if we're lucky." He was staring down the talus slope as if memorizing it. "There's a way, I think. But we'll have to wait until early morning, when some of these moons set. There's a new model car down there that will out distance any of the others." "But..." He waved her aside. "I've a hunch we can get it. Rest now. I'll watch." T he girl protested, but finally leaned back and relaxed. cold, for there in the deep the air and rocks held some heat -- or what passes for heat on Mars. Even so, Hansen found himself wishing he could roll up in a ball, like the rock puppies. He watched the sky. Diemos would not rise for another hour. Phobos, orbiting in less than eight, would plunge below the horiwon in another thirty minutes. After a while he touched the girl's shoulder. She sat up tensely. "Are they coming?" "No. They have to rest, too, remember. And they're sure of us. That's why the odds are in our favor. They're warm and comfortable, plugged into their car power packs. Now help me out of this coverall." "You'll freeze!" "Huh-up. I know to the minute how long I can function in light insulation. And I have to move quickly and quietly. Now hand me that knife." The girl fumbled for the knife. Hansen looked up at the sky. "Be dark soon, when Phobos dives. Now listen! This will take me twenty minutes or forever. If it's more than twenty minutes, you shoot whoever comes over this wall. It won't be me!" Abruptly, it darkened. Hansen went over the wall and the girl whispered, "Be careful." There was only a soft rustle in the shale and then he was gone. She waited, anxiety growing, but there was no sound, no flash or glow of gun or heat. Time seemed to race by, and there were only two left of the twenty minutes when she heard his low whisper and he tumbled, panting, over the rim. She worked furiously to help him back into his coverall. She fed him a breath of oxygen. "I'd give you brandy, but Spear's pets rifled my kit. That was a long -- or a short-eighteen minutes, Bart Hansen. -- I'm -- I'm glad you're back!" Hansen huddled, shivering. But his head was turned, listening. "I'm glad, too. Now, get ready. There's a big sand car down there, in the clear. Squinty's. Remember it?" "Yes." "I'll follow you in my own bug, in a few minutes. Now, no matter what, you keep going. Radar will keep you on the path. Now go!" Ilie girl hesitated, shaking her head. Hansen snapped, "Dammit, get moving, before it gets any lighter. I know what I'm doing!" "All right. But will that car run for me?" Hansen put his knife back in his belt. "It'll run. The locks weren't IF keyed to his heart beat. Only to his thumb." The girl caught her breath, but she turned to the wall. Hansen all but pushed her over the rim. She clung to his. hand for a moment. Then she was gone. Tensely, he listened. The sound of her descent faded. There was no other sound, no alarm from the sleeping men down the path. Then he heard a light rustling, which grew louder and nearer, and then her hoarse whisper reached him. "Hansen! It's me. Help me in." C oursing solidly, he all but pulled  her over the wall. "What's wrong with you. It'll be light in a few minutes. You're as stupid as the puppies!" She sat limply, staring up at him. "I -- I don't know what it is. But something is wrong. Something tells me not to go. It's -- it's just a feeling I have. I don't understand..." "Nuts! You panicked!" "No! Tm scared. But I didn't panic. And -- and you weren't going, were you? Your power pack isn't charged. I didn't set it up. So you were going to stay here in the middle of this crazy Tri-D show, holding off the bad guys! It won't do, Bart Hansen!" Hansen crouched silently, listening. "Well," he said finally, "to tell you the truth, I'm scared too!" For a long moment in the growing light they stared at each other. Then she touched his arm. "Do you feci it, too?" He nodded. "I'm not angry-scared," she went on, "like I am of those men down there. That I could live through if I had to. It would only make me sick. This is deep-scared, of something I don't understand." Hansen sat beside her. It was nearly light, now, too late for either of them to run. He put an arm around her. Even through the heavy They voyaged from the Earth they had never ;I known to the planet they could never reach -- I I An epic science-ficfion novel   by Frank Herbert Author of Under Pressure, Dune World, etc. Also stories and features by Jomes Blish  Korman L. Knight, Algb Budrys, Willy Ley, etc. Coining soon -- don't miss iti  IF coverall he could feel her shiverinf with cold. "I don't understand it, either. I've had hunches, strong hunches. But, this is -- is compelling. We're not under control. I'm sure of that. But we're being told, somehow, to stay here!" The light grew stronger. Hansen looked to his gun and charge clips. One thing was sure, he thought sardonically. If Spear's crew did try to rush them, as well they might if they lost their heads when they found Squinty, they would turn this thing into a regular scalp-tingler of a Vid show! He started, raising his gun, at a rustling sound on the slope. But it was only a rock puppy rolling in along the top of the talus. It bounced in through one of the roll ways, unfolding itself and sitting up, bright eyed, chittering musical play-noises. In spite of himself, Hansen laughed. "Look, bucket head. We've no time to play. Roll! You're liable to get hurt." The puppy only wriggled, and rolled over by the girl to peer out down the slope. There was a shout from the rocks below. "They've found Squinty," Hansen muttered. There was another shout, and a shot, and a blind, prolonged play of heat from someone angry enough to risk burning up his projector. Then, as they ducked away from the open rollways, they heard a faint rumble, and then the growing cra of rolling rocks. Hansen tensed, his eyes darting around. "Rock slide," he muttered. "Both sides of us and across! But what started it?" A bruptly the rumble grew to a roar. There was one piercing cry from the gorge below them. Then all sound was drowned and sight blanked by a roiling cloud erf reddish dust. They stared, unbelieving, as the sound died away and the dust slowly thinned and settled. A section of the rocky path below was filled now with rock .and rubble. The two slides, starting simultaneously on each side, had covered Spear's precise area, no more. Out in front, untouched, were the two sand can, Hansen's where the girl had abandoned it, and Squinty s, where Hansen had, an hour before, pushed it. The girl whispered, "That -- that didn't just happen, Bart! It -- it was planned!" Hansen stood dazed, like a man in shock. He turned to stare at ibe little rock puppy which still sat, unmoving, looking out the roU vav Others were appearing now, fr m beside them and from across the gorge. One little fellow rolled up and bounced into the girl's arms and clung tightly to her wrist. Hansen shook his head and leaned limply against the wall. "It's hard to believe," he said finally. "Hunches! The rock puppiesi Some of us were lucky, some unlucky. And some just disappeared, like Spear!" He turned to the girl, and tht little fellow who was burrowing his way into the breast pocket of hef coverall. "Maybe," he mused, "that's why against all logic I took that short cut where I found you." At the foot of the hill, when they were ready to start, the girl turned suddenly to Hansen. "Is it true that Territorial Government thinks it's too soon to start policing the deeps?" Hansen looked startled. "Where did you hear that?" She shrugged. "Gossip, I suppose. But it's true, isn't it?" "It's true. Pearsall say he hasn't the men, or the material." "Well, if he would just come out and get acquainted with the rock puppies. I'll bet he'd change his mind." Hansen looked around at the circle of silky faces peering up at him and for the first time since the rock slide he laughed. "You know, I think he might. But he won't leave the domes. Says he hasn't the time." "But if we took Buster, here, with us when we talked with him..." Hansen laughed again. "OK, Buster. You're the ambassador." At midafternoon Hansen stopped at a fork. He pointed. "This is the turn-off, but down there a mile is a shelter, a good one. Built it myself. We could stay there tonight. get some rest, and recharge these packs. Would you like that?" The girl met his eyes. Her lips parted and she looked quickly away. Her voice was carefully casual. "Why -- yes. That would be nice." Then she straightened in her seat, blushing. "Nol" she said indignantly. "Of all the... " But, of a sudden, her words were lost in her own laughter. Hansen laughs too, and they both looked accusingly at the flat, silky head which , had popped out of her breast pocket. Buster peered from one to the other and wriggled happily. The girl choked off her laughter. "This one," she said positively, "is definitely not a baby!" Ruefully, Hansen sighed. " We might as well go on then." The girl's lip pushed out stubbornly. But she ruffled the flat, silky head and her lips quirked at the comers. "Some things," she said firmly, "a girl wants to decide for herself!" In the July Worlds of Tomorrow -- He fried fo cure the world of oil its ills -- and nearly IdBed iti Beginning an excHing two-part serial By Mack Reynolds science fact, and stories hy yaw farorite authors. Don't miss itl IF IF  Short Story They were new people in town -- Of new something anywayl T here were a lot of funny people in that block. "You ever walk down that street?" Art Slick asked Jim Boomer, who had just come onto him there. "Not since I was a boy. After the overall factory burned down, there was a faith healer had his tent pitched there one summer. The street's just one block long and it deadends on the railroad embankment. Nothing but a bunch of shanties and weed-filled lots. The shanties looked different today, though, and there seem to be more of them. I thought they pulled them all down a few months ago." "Jim, I've been watching that first little building for two hours. There was a tractor-truck there this morning with a forty foot trailer, and it loaded out of that little shanty. Cartons about eight inches by eight inches by three foot came down that chute. They weighed about thirtyfive pounds each from the way the men handled them. Jim, they filled that trailer up with them, and then pulled it off." "What's wrong with that. Art?" "Jim, I said they filled tliat trailer up. From the drag on it it had about a sixty thousand pound load when it pulled out. They loaded a carton every three and a half seconds for two hours; that's two thousand cartons." "Sure, lots of trailers run over the load limit now days. They don't enforce it very well." "Jim, that shack's no more than a cracker box seven feet on a side. Half of it is taken up by a door, and inside is a man m a chair behind a small table. You couldn't get anything else m that half. The other half is taken up by whatever that chute comes out of. You coidd pack six of those little shacks on that trailer." "Let's measure it," Jim Boomer said. "Maybe it's bigger than it looks." The shack had a sign on it: Make Sell Ship Anything Cut Price, Jim Boomer measured  building with an old steel tape. The shack was a seven foot cube, and there were no hidden places. It was set up on a few piers of broken bricks, and you could see under it. "Sell you a new fifty-foot steel tape for a dollar," said the man in the chair in the little shack. "Throw that old one away." The man pulled a steel tape out of a drawer of his table-desk, though Art Slick was sure it had beeo a plain flat-top table with no place for a drawer. "Fully retractable, rhodium plated, Don glide, Ramsey swivel, and it forms its own carrying case. One dollar," the man said. Jim Boomer paid him a dollar for it. "How many of them you got?" "I can have a hundred thousand ready to load out in ten minutes," the man said. "Eighty-eight cents each in hundred thousa lots." "Was that a trailer-load of steel tapes you shipped out this morning?" Art asked the man. "No, that must have been something else. This is the first steel tape I ever made. Just got the idea when I saw you measuring my shack with that old beat-up one." A rt Slkk and Jim Boomer went to the run-down building next door. It was smaller, about a six foot cube, and die sign said Public Stenographer. The datter of a typewriter was coming from it, but the noise stopped when they opened the door. A dark, pretty girl was sitting in a diair before a small tade. There was nodiing else in the room, and no typewriter. "I thought I heard a typewriter in here," Art said. "Oh, that is me," the girl smiled. "Sometimes I amuse mysdf make typewriter noises like a public stenographer is supposed to." "What would you do if someone came in to have some typing done?" "What are you think? I do it of course." "Could you type a letter for me?" "Sure is can, man friend, two bits a page, good work, carbon copy, envelope and stamp." "Ah, let's see how you do it. I will dictate to you while you type." "You dictate first. Then I write. No sense mix up two things at one time." IF Art dictated a long and involved letter that he had been meaning to write for several days. He felt like a fool droning it to the girl as she filed her nails. is public stenographer always sit hling her nails?" she asked as Art droned. "But I try to do it right, file them down, grow them out again, then file them down some more. Been doing it all morning. It seems silly." "Ah -- that is all," Art said when he had finished dictating. "Not P.S. Love and Kisses?" the girl asked. "Hardly. It's a business letter to a person I barely know." "I always say P.S. Love and Kisses to persons I barely know," the girl said. "Your letter will make three pages, six bits. Please you both step outside about ten seconds and I write it. Can't do it when you watch." She pushed them out and closed the door. Then there was silence, "What are you doing in there, girl?" Art called. "Want I sell you a memory course too? You forget already? I t)rpe a letter," the girl called. "But I don't hear a typewriter going." "What is? You want verisimilitude too? I should charge extra.' There was a giggle, and then the sound of very rapid typing for about five seconds. T he girl opened the door and handed Art the three page letter. It was typed perfect, of course. "There is something a little odd about this," Art said. "Oh? The ungrammar of the letter is your own, sir. Should I have correct?" "No. It is something else. Tell me die truth, girl, how does the man next door ship out trailer-loads of material from a building ten times too small to hold the stuff?" "He cuts prices." "Well, what are you people? The man next door resembles you." "My brother-uncle. We tell every body we are Innominee Indians." "There is no such tribe," Jim Boomer said flatly. "Is there not? Then we will have to tell people we are something else. You got to admit it sounds like Indian. What's the best Indian to be?" "Shawnee," said Jim Boomer. "O.K. then we be Shawnee Indians. See how easy it is." "We're already taken," Boomer said. "I'm a Shawnee and I know every Shawnee in town." "Hi cousin!" the girl cried, and winked. "That's from a joke I learn, only the begin was different. See how foxy I turn all your questions." "I have two-bits coming out of my dollar," Art said. "I know," the girl said. "I forgot for a minute what design is on the back of the two-bitser piece, so I stall while I remember it. Yes, the funny bird standing on the bundle of fire wood. One moment till I finish it. Here." She handed the quarter to Art Slick. "And you tell everybody there's a smoothie public stenographer here who types letters good." "Without a typewriter," said Art Slick. "Let's go, Jim." P.S. Love and Kisses," tibe giri called Mfttr diem. T he Cool Man Club was next door, a small and shabby beer bar. The bar girl could have been a sister of the public stenographer. "We'd like a couple of Buds, but you don't seem to have a stock of anything," Art said. "Who needs stock?" the girl asked. "Here is beers." Art would have believed that she brought them out of her sleeves, but she had no sleeves. The beers were cold and good. "Girl, do you know how the fellow on the corner can ship a whole trailer-load of material out of a space that wouldn't hold a tenth of it?" Art asked the girl. "Sure. He makes it and loads it out at the same time. That way it doesnt take up space, like if ha made it before time." "But he has to make it out of something," Jim Boomer cut in. "No, no," the girl said. "I study your language. I know words. Out of something is to assemble, not to make. He makes." "This is funny," Slick gaped. "Budweiser is misspelled on this bottle, the i before the e." "Oh, I goof," the bar girl said. "I couldn't remember which way it goes so I make it one way on one bottle and the other way on the other. Yesterday a man ordered a bottle of Progress beer, and I spelled it Progers on the bottle. Sometimes I get things wrong. Here, I fix yours." She ran her hand over the label, and then it was spelled correctly. "But that thing is engraved and then reproduced," Slick protested. "Oh, sure, aU fancy stuff like that," the girl said. "I got to be more careful. One time I forget and make Jax-taste beer in a Schlitz bottle and the man didn't like it. I had to swish swish change the taste while I pretended to give him a different bottle. One time I forgot and produced a green-bottle beer in a brown bottle. It is the light in here, it just makes it look brown,' I told the man. Hell, we don't even have a light in here. I go swish fast and make the bottle green. It's hard to keep from making mistake when you're stupid." "No, you don't have a light or a window in here, and it's light," Slick said. "You don't have refrigeration. There are no power lines to my of the shanties in this block. How do you keep the beer cold?" "Yes, is the beer not nice and cold? Notice how tricky I evade your question. Will you good men have two uKre beers?" "Yes, we will. And I'm interested In seeing where you will get them," Saick said. "Oh look, is snakes behind youl" the girl cried. "Oh how you startle and jump I" she laughed. "It's all joke. Do you think I will have snakes in my nice bar?" But she had produced two more beers, and the place was as bare as before. "How long have you tumble-bugs been in this block?" Boomer asked. "Who keep track?" the girl said. "People come and go." "You're not from around here," SO IF Slick said. "You're not from anywhere I know. Where do you come from? Jupiter?" "Who wants Jupiter?" the seemed indignant. "Do business with a bunch of insects there is all! Freeze your tail too." "You wouldn't be a kidder, would you girl" Slick asked. "I sure do try hard. I learn a lot of jokes but I tell them all wrong yet. I get better, though. I try to be the witty bar girl so people will come back." "What's in the shanty next door towards the tracks?" "My cousin-sister," said the girl. "She set up shop just today. She grow any color hair on bald-headed men. I tell her she's crazy. No business. If they wanted hair they wouldn't be bald-headed in the first place." "Well, can she grow hair on baldheaded men?" Slick asked. "Oh sure. Can't you?" T here were three or four more shanty shops in the block. It didn't seem that there had been that many when the men went into the Cool Man Club. "I don't remember seeing this shack a few minutes ago," Boomer said to the man standing in front of the last shanty on the line. "Oh, I just made it," the man said Weathered boards, rusty nails . ,  and he had just made it. "Why didn't you -- ah -- make a decent building while you were at it?" Slick asked. "This is more inconspicuous," the man said. "Who notices when an old building appears suddenly? We're new here and want to feel our way in before we attract attention. Now I'm trying to figure out what to make. Do you think there is a market for a luxury automobile to sell for a hundred dollars? I suspect I would have to respect the local religious feeling when I make them, though." "What is that?" Slkk asked. "Ancestor worship. The old gas tank and fuel system still carried as vestiges after natural power is available. Oh, well. I'll put them in. I'll have one done in about three minutes if you want to wait." "No. I already got a car," Slick said. "Let's go, Jim." That was the last shanty in the block, so they turned back. "I just got to wondering what was down in this block where nobody ever goes," Slick said. "There's a lot of odd corners in our town if you look them out." "There were some queer guys in the row of shanties that were here before this bunch," Boomer said. "Some of them used to come up to the Red Rooster to drink. One of them could gobble like a turkey. One of them could roll one eye in one direction and the other eye the other way. They shoveled hulls at the cotton-seed oil float before it burned down." They went by the public stenographer shack again. "No kidding, honey, how do yoo type without a typewriter?" Slick asked. "Typewriter is too slow," the girl said. I asked How, not Why," Slick laid. "I know. Is it not nifty the way I turn away a phrase? I tk I will have a big oak tree growing in front of my shop tomorrow for shade. Either of you nice men have an acorn in your pocket?" "Ah -- no. How do you really do the typing, girl?" "You promise you won't tell anybody." "I promise." "I make the marks with my tongue," the girl said. They started slowly on up the block. "Hey, how do you make the carbon copies?" Jim Boomer called back. "With my other tongue, the girl said. T here was another forty-foot trailer loading out of the first shanty in the block. It was bundles of half-inch plumbers pipe coming out of the chute -- in twenty foot lengths. Twenty foot rigid pipe out of a seven foot shed. "I wonder how he can sell trailer-loads of such stuff out of a little shack like that," Slick puzzled, still not satisfied. "Like the girl says, he cuts prices," Boomer said. "Let's go over to the Red Rooster and see if there's anything going on. There always were a lot of funny people in that block." Next Moq in B... Well try real hard to find room for some of the letters that have been piling up -- but this month, with a hefty chunk of Skylark DuQuesne and the big Van Vogt-Schmitz novella to fit in, there just wasn't room. Apart from that -- Retiefs back. That's good news in itself, and also good news is the fact that he's got the August cover with a lovely Retief-like painting by Jack Gaughan. The title of this new saga of interstellar diplomacy is Trick or Treaty, We thought of holding it till our October issue, to fit the title to the season... but Keith Laumer doesn't need the help of the calendar. Trick or Treaty supplies its own Hallowe'en prankishness... Incidentally, if you come across a paperbound book by Keith Laumer called Embassy we think you'll enjoy it. It isn't science fiction; but it is, as Keith admits in a note on the flyleaf of our copy, the adventures of Relief's real-life equivalent in a Southeast Asian country that seemed to us a lot like Vietnam. One of the reasons the Relief stories are as good as they are is that Laumer was in fact attached to our diplomatic service for some years -- and there's real fantasy for youf IF IF  Seriml Richard Seaton could not forgive -- DuQuesne could not forget -- yet the two of them were alliesi vm Industrial Revolution W hen Seaton and Crane had begun to supply the Earth with ridiculously cheap power, they had expected an economic boom and a significant improvement in the standard of living. Neither of them had any idea, however, of the effect upon the world's economy that their space-flights would have; but many tycoons of industry did. They were shrewd operators, those tycoons. As one man they licked their chops at the idea of interstellar passages made in days. They gloated over thoughts of the multifold increase in productive capacity that What Has Gone Before -- T#i most deadly rivals in the universe are Richard Seaton and Mare C. DuQuesne. Nr lore than a year Seaton has written DuQuesne off as no longer a threat, since in a titanlt battle DuQuesne was disembodied and, in the form of a pure mentality, placed in m story opens a greup of Norlaminlan scientists have just discovered that there is a flow in the mothematics and DuQuesne will be free at any moment. Seaton and the Norlaminians resolve to send out a thought message which will alert all human races throughout the universe to the danger and to the need for all persons of good will to band together. Meanwhile DuQuesne in fact is freed and, through the workings of certain other disembodied intelligences. Is reincarnated in his own body, in a spaceship countless parsecs away from Earth. He is ottacked without womlng by unknown forces. He manages to get away, but realizes he cannot survive another attack -- and that the mere fact of his existence, means that the unknown enemy will sooner or later hunt him down. There is only one thing to do. Marc DuQuesne builds a powerful transmitter and trans mits a call for help -- to Richard Seaton, his deadliest enemyl would have to be made so soon; as soon as commerce was opened up with dozens and then with hundreds of Tellus-type worlds, inhabited by human beings as human as those of Earth. And when they envisioned hundreds and hundreds of uninhabited Tellus-type worlds, each begging to be grabbed and exploited by whoever got to it first with enough stuff to hold it and to develop it... they positively drooled. These men did not think of money as money, but as their most effective and most important tool: a tool to be used as knowledgeably as the old-time lumberjack used his axe. Thus, Earth was going through convulsions of change more revolutionary by far than any it had experienced throughout all previous history. All those pressures building up at once had blown the lid completely off. Seaton and Crane and their associates had been working fifteen hours a day for months training people in previously unimagined skills; trying to keep the literally exploding economy from degenerating into complete chaos. They could not have done it alone, of course. In fact, it was all that a thousand Norlaminian "Observers" coidd do to keep the situation even approximately in hand. And even the Congress -- mirabile dictu ! -- welcomed those aliens with open arms; for it was so hopelessly deadlocked in trying to work out any workable or enforceable laws that it was accomplishing nothing at all. All steel mills were working at one hundred ten per cent of capaIF city. So were almost all other kinds of plants. Machine tools were in such demand that no estimated time of delivery could be obtained. Arenak, dagai, and inoson, those wonder-materials of the construction industry, would be in general supply some day; but that day would not be allowed to come until the changeover could be made without disrupting the entire economy. Inoson especially was confined to the spaceship builders; and, while every pretense was being made that production was being increased as fast as possible, the demand for spaceships was so insatiable that every hulk that could leave atmosphere was out in deep space. were springing up all over Earth. Each sought out and began to develop a Tellus-type planet of its own, to bring up as a civilized planet cmmerely to exploit as it saw fit. Each was clamoring for -- and using every possible artifice of persuasion, lobbying, horse-trading, and out-and-out bribery and corruption to obtain -- spaceships, personnel, machinery light and heavy, office equipment, and supplies. All the employables of Earth, and many theretofore considered unemployable, were at work. Earth was a celestial madhouse I t is no wonder, then, that Seatcm and Crane were haggard and wMH when they had to turn their jobs over to two upper-bracket Norlaminians and leave Earth. Their situation thereafter was not much better. The first steps were easy -- anyway, the decisions involved were easy; the actual work involved was roughly equivalent to the energy budget of several Sol-type suns. It is an enormous project to set up a line of defense hundreds of thousands of miles long; especially when the setters-up do not know exactly what to expect in the way of attack. They knew, in fact, only one thing: that the Norlaminians had made a probabilistic statement that Marc C. DuQuesne was likely to be present among them before long. That was excuse, reason and compulsion enough to demand the largest and most protracted effort they could make. The mere preliminaries involved laying out axes of action that embraced many solar systems, locating and developing sources of materials and energies tibat were enough to smother a hundred suns. As that work began to shape up, Seaton and Crane came face to face with the secondary line of problems... and at that point Seaton suddenly smote himself on the forehead and cried: "Dunark!" Crane looked up. "Dunark? Why, yes, Dick. Quite right. Not only is he probably die universe's greatest strategist, but he knows the enemy almost as well as you and I do." "And besides," Seaton added, "he doesn't think like us. Not at all. And that's what we want; so I'll call him now and we'll compute a rendezvous." Wherefore, a few days later, Dunark's Osnomian cruiser matched velocities with the hurtling worldlet and began to negotiate its locks. #f Seaton ved the Valerons airpressure, cut down its gravity, and reached for the master thermostat. "Not too hot, Dick," Dorothy aid. "Light gravity is all right, but make them wear some clothes any time they're outside their special quarters. I simply won't run around naked in my own house. And I won't have them doing it, either." Seaton laughed. "The usual eightythree degrees and twenty-five per cent humidity. They'll wear clothes, all right. She'll be tickled to death to wear that fur coat you gave her -- he doesn't get a chance to, very often -- and we can stand it easily enough," and the four Tellurians went out to the dock to greet their green-skinned friends of old: Crown Prince Dunark and Crown Princess Star of Osnome, one of the planets of the enormous central sun of the Central System. Warlike, bloodthirsty, supremely ble Dunark; and Sitar, his lovely, vivacious -- and equally warlike -- wife. He was wearing ski-pants (Osnome's temperature, at every point on its surface and during every minute of every day of the year, is one hundred degrees Fahrenheit), a heavy sweater, wool socks, and fur-lined moccasins. She wore a sweater and slacks under her usual fantastic array of Osnomian jewelry; and over it, as Seaton had predicted, the full-length mink coat. Each was wearing only one Osnomian machine-pistol instead of the arsenal that had been their customary garb such a short time before. The three men greeted each other warmly and executed a six-hand handshake; the while the two white women and the green one went into an armswrapped group; each talking two hundred words to the minute. A couple of days later, the Norlaminian task-force arrived and a council of war was held that lasted for one full working day. Then, the defense planned in length and in depth, construction began: Seaton and Crane sat in the two master-control helmets of the Brain. Rovol worked with the brain of the Norlaminian spaceship. Dozens of other operators, men and women, worked at and with other, less powerful devices. O n the surface of a nearby planet, ten thousand square miles of land were leveled and paved to form the Area of Work. Stacks and piles and rows and assortments of hundreds of kinds of structural members appeared as though by magic. Gigantic beams of force, made visible by a thin and dusty pseudo-mist, flashed here and there; seizing this member and that and these and them and those and joining them together with fantastic speed to form enormous towers and platforms and telescopelike things and dirigible tubes and projectors. Some of these projectors took containers of pure force out to white dwarf stars after neutronium. Others took faidons -- those indestructible jewels that are the sine qua non of higher-order operation -- out to the cores of stars to be worked into lenses of various shapes and sizes. Out into the environment of scores of square inch of pressure that is the only environment in which the faidon can be worked by any force known to the science of man. The base-line, which was to be builr of enormous, absolutely rigid beams ot force, could not be of planetary, or even of orbital dimensions. It had to extend, a precisely measured length, from the core of a star to that of another, having as nearly as possible the same proper motion, over a hundred parsecs away. Thus it took over a week to build and to calibrate that base-line; but, once that was done, the work went fast. ITie most probable lines of approach were blocked by fourth-, fifth-, and sixth-order installations of tremendous range and of planetary power: less probable ones by defenses of somewhat lesser might; supersensitive detector webs fanned out everywhere. And this work, which would have required years a short time before, was only a matter of a couple of weeks for the gigantic contire Area of Work. When everything that anyone could think of doing had been done, Seaton lit his pipe, jammed both hands into his pockets, and turned to his wife. "Well, we've got it made -- now what are we going to do with it? Sit on our hands until Blackie DuQuesne trips a trigger or some Good Samaritan answers our call? I'd give three nickels to know whether he's loose yet or not, and if he is loose, just where he is at this moment." I'd raise you a dime," she said; and then, since Dorothy Seaton concealed an extremely useful brain under her red curls, she added slowly, "And maybe... you know what the Norlaminians deduced: that, upon liberation, he'd be rematerialized? That he'd have a very good spaceship. That, before attacking us, he would recruit personnel, both men and women, both from need of their help and from loneliness... wait up -- loneliness! Who -- a girl, probably -- would he get loneliest for?" Seaton snapped his fingers. "I can make an awfully good guess. Hunkie de Marigny." "Hunkie de Who? Oh, I remember. That big moose with the black hair and the shape." Seaton laughed. "Funny, isn't it, that such an accurate description can be so misleading? But my guess is, if he's back she knows it... I think it'd be smart to flip myself over to the Bureau and see what I can find out. Want to come along?" "Uh-uh; she isn't my dish of tea." S eaton projected his solid-seeming simulacrum of pure force to distant Tellus, to Washington, and to the sidewalk in front of the Bureau. He mounted the steps, entered the building, said "Hi, Gorgeous" to the shapely blonde receptionist, and took an elevator to the sixteenth floor; where he paused briefly in thought. He hadn't better see Hunkie first, or only: Ferdinand Scott, the world's worst gossip, would talk about it, and Hunkie would draw her own conclusions. He'd pull Scotty's teeth first. M IF Wherefore he turned Into the laboratcry beside the one that once had been his own. "Hi, Scotty," he said, bolding out his hand, "Don't tell me they've actually got you working for I change." Scott, a chunky youth with strawcolored hair that needed cutting, jumped off of his stool and shook hands vigorously. "Hi, Dickie, old top! Alla time work. 'Slavey' Scott; that's me. But boy oh boy, did I goof on that 'Nobody Holme' bit! You and that bottle of waste solution, that you stirred the whole world up with like goulash! Why can't anything like that ever happen to me? But I s'pose I'd've blown the whole world to hellangone up instead of just putting h into the God-awful shape it's in now, like you and Blackie DuQuesne did. Wowy what a mess!" "Yeah. Speaking of DuQuesne -- seen him lately?" "Not since tihe big bust. The Norlaminians probably know all about him." "They don't. I asked. They lost him." "Well, you might ask Hunkie de Marigny. She'll know if anybody does." "Oh -- she still here?" "Yeah. Most of us are, and will be." Seaton chatted for another minute, then, "Take it easy, guy," he said; and went up the corridor to Room #. The door was wide open, so he went in without knocking. "Park it. Be with you in a moment," a smooth contralto voice said, and Seaton sat down on a chair near the door. The woman -- Doctor Stephanie dc Marigny, nuclear physicist and good at her trade -- kept both eyes fastened on a four-needle meter about eighteen inches in front of her nose. Her well-kept hands and red-nailed fingers, working blind with the sure precision of those of a world-champion typist, opened and closed switches, moved sliders and levers, and manipulated a dozen of so vernier knobs in tiny arcs. There was nothing to show any uninformed observer what she was doing. Whatever it was that she was working on could have been behind that instrument-filled panel -- or down in some sub-basement -- or at the Proving Grounds down the Potomac in space. Whatever it was or whereever, as she worked the four needles of the master-meter moved closer and closer together as each needle approached the center-zero mark of the meter's scale -- Until finally the four hair-thin flat needles were exactly in line with each other and with the hair-thin zero mark. Whereupon four heavy plungers drove home and every light on the panel flashed green and went out. "On the button," she said then, aloud. She rose to her feet, stretched as gracefully and luxuriously and unselfconsciously as does a cat, and turned toward her visitor. "Hi, Hunkie," Seaton said. "Can you spare me a minute?" "Nice to see you again, Dick." She came toward him, hand outstretched. "I could probably be talked into making it two minutes." "The word 'big", while true, was both inadequate and misleading. Stephanie de Marigny was tall -- five feet ten in her nylons -- and looked even taller because ol her three-inch heels, her erect posture, and because of the mass of jet-black hair piled high on her head. Her breasts jutted; her abdomen was flat and hard; her wide, flat hips flared out from a startlingly narrow waist; and her legs would have made any professional glamour-photographer drool. And her face, if not as beautiful as her body, was fully as striking. Her unplucked eyebrows, as black as her hair, were too long and too thick and too bushy and grew too nearly together above a nose that was as much of a beak as DuQuesne's own, TTie lashes over her deep brown eyes were simply incredible. Her cheekbones were too large and too prominent. Her fire-engine-red mouth was too big. Her square chin and her hard, clean line of jaw were too outstanding; demanded too much notice. Her warm, friendly, dimple-displaying smile, however, revealed the charm that was actually hers. Seaton said, "As always, you're really a treat for the optic nerve." She ignored the compliment. "You aren't; you look like a catastrophe looking for a place to happen. You ought to take better care of yourself, Dick. Get some sleep once in a while." "I'm going to, as soon as I can. But what I came in for -- have you heard anything of Blackie lately?" "No. Not since he got delusions of grandeur. Why? Should I have?" "Not that I know of. I just thought maybe you two had enough ot a thing on so you'd keep in touch." "Uh-uh. I ran around with him a little, is all. Nothing serious. Of al the men I know who understand ami appreciate good music, he's tha youngest, the best-looking, and tha most fun. Also the biggest. I can wear high heels and not tower over him, which I can't do with most men..." She paused, nibbling at her lower lip, then went on, "My best guess is that he's out on one of the new planeti somewhere, making several hundred thousand tax-free dollars per year. That's what I'm going to be doing as soon as I finish Observers' School here." "You're the gal who can do it, toa Luck, Hunkie." "Same to you, Dick. Drop is again, any time you're around." And aboard the Skylark of Voter on, Seaton turned to Dorothy with a scowl. "Nobody's seen him or heard anything of him, so he probably isat loose yet. I hate this waiting. Cornfound it, I wish the big black ape would get loose and start something!" Although Seaton did not know it, DuQuesne had, and was about to. It happened that night, after Sear ton had gone to bed. T he message came in loud and clear on Seaton's private allhours receiver, monitored and directed by the unsleeping Brain: "... Seaton reply on tight beam of the sixth stop DuQuesne calling Seaton reply on tight beam of the sixth stop DuQuesne calling..." Coming instantly awake at the sound of his name, Seaton kicked IF off the covefs, thought a light on, and, setting hands and feet, made a gymnast's twisting, turning leap over Dorothy without touching her. There was plenty of room on his own side of the bed, but the direct route was quicker. He landed on his feet, took two quick steps, and slapped the remote-control helmet on his head. 'Trace this call. Hit its source with a tight beam of the sixth," he thought into the helmet; then took it off and said aloud, "You're coming in loud and clear. What gives?" "Lx)ud and clear here. All hell's out for noon. I just met the damndest alien any science-fiction fan ever imagined -- teeth, wings, tail -- the works. Klazmon by name; boss of two hundred forty-one planets full of monsters just like him. He's decided that all humanity everywhere should be liquidated; and it looks as though he may have enough stuff to do just that." Dorothy had sat up in bed, sleepily. She made a gorgeously beautiful picture, Seaton thought; wearing a wisp of practically nothing and her hair a tousled auburn riot. As the sense of DuQuesne's words struck home, however, a look of horror spread over her face and she started to say something; but Seaton touched his lips with a forefinger and she, wide awake now, nodded. "Nice summary, DuQuesne," Seaton said then. "Now break it down into smaller pieces, huh?" and DuQuesne went on to give a verbatim report of his interview with Llanzlan Klazmon of the Realm of the Llurdi. "So much for facts," DuQuesne said. "Now for inferences and deductions. You know how, when you're thinking with anyone, other information, more or less relevant and more or less clear, comes along? A sort of side-band effect?" "Yeah, always. I can see how you picked up the business about the stranger ships that way. But how sure are you that those seventeen ships were Fenachrone?" "Positive. That thought was clear. And for that matter, there must be others running around loose somewhere. How possible is it, do you think, to wipe out completely a race that has had spaceships as long as they have?" "Could be," agreed Seaton. "And this ape Klazmon figured it that we were the same race, basically, both mentally -- savage, egocentric, homicidal -- and physically. How could he arrive at any such bobbled-up, cockeyed conclusions as that?" "For him, easily enough. Klazmon is just about as much like us as we are like those X-planet cockroaches. Imagine a man-sized bat, with a super-able tail, cat's eyes and teeth, humanoid arms and hands, a breastbone like the prow of a battleship, pectoral muscles the size of fortypound hams, and -- " "Wait up a sec -- this size thing. His projection?" "That's right. Six feet tall. He wasn't the type to shrink or expand it." "I'll buy that. And strictly logical -- with their own idea of what logic is." "Check. According to which logic we're surplus population and are to be done away with. So I decided to warn you as to what the human race is up against and to suggest a meeting with you that we know can't be listened in on. Check?" Definitely. We'll lock our sixths on and instruct our computers to compute and effect rendezvous at null relative velocity in minimum time. Can do?" "Can do -- am doing," DuQuesne said; and Seaton, donning his helmet, perceived that the only fifthor sixth-order stuff anywhere near the Skylark of VaJeron -- except what she was putting out herself, rf course -- was the thin, tight beam that was the base-line. Seaton thought into his helmet for a few seconds; then, discarding it, he went around the bed, got into it on his own ade, and started to kiss Dorothy a second good night. "But, Dick," she protested. "That DuQuesne! Do you think it's safe to let him come actually aboard?" "Yes. Not only safe, but necessary -- we don't want to be blabbing that of space. And safe because I still say we're better than he is at anything he wants to start, for fun, money, chalk, or marbles. So good night again, ace of my bosom." "Hadn't you better notify somebody else first? Especially the Norlaminians?" "You said it, presh; I sure should." Seaton put on his helmet; and it was a long time before either of the Seatons got back to sleep. Long for Dorothy, heroically keeping eyes closed and breathing regularly so that her husband would not know how shaken and terrified she really was; long for Seaton himself, who lay hour upon endless hour, hands linked behind his head, gray eyes staring fiercely up into the darkness. It had been a long time since Richard Ballinger Seaton and Marc C. DuQuesne had locked horns last. This galaxy -- this cluster -- this whole First Universe was not large enough for the two of them. When they met again one of them would dispose of the other. It was as simple as tht. Yet Seaton had accepted a call for help. The whole enormous complex of defenses diat he had labored so hard and long to erect against DuQuesne would now be diverted to another, perhaps even a greater, threat to the safety of civilization. It was right and proper that thk should be so. But Seaton knew that whatever the best interests of dvilization in this matter, there could and would never be any greater personal threat to himself than was incarnate in the cold, hard, transcendentaHy logical person of Blackie DuQuesne. DC Among the Jelmi A nd half a universe away other events were moving to fruition. As has been said, the eight hundred Jelmi aboard the ship that had once been a Llurdan cruiser were the setheir race inhabiting two hundred forty-one planets. The younger ones had been selected for brains, ability, and physical perfection; the older ones for a hundred years or more of IF tftstanding sdentific achievement. And of the (der group, Tammon itood out head and shoulders above afl the rest. He was the Einstein of his race. He looked a vigorous, bushily gray-haired sixty; but was in fact two hundred eleven Mallidaxian years old. Tammon was poring over a computed graph, measuring its various characteristics with vernier calipers, a filar microscope, and an integrating planimeter, when Mergon and Luloy came swinging hand in hand into his laboratory. Both were now fully recovered from the wounds they had suffered in that hand-to-hand battle with the Llurdi on now-fardistant Llurdiax. Muscles moved smoothly under the unblemished bronze of Mergon's skin; Luloy's swirling shoulder-length mop of gleaming chestnut hair was a turbulent glory. "Hail, Tamm," the two said in unison, and Mergon went on: "Have you unscrewed the inscrutability of that anomalous peak yet?" Tammon picked up another chart and scowled at a sharp spike going up almost to the top of the scale, "This? Tm not exactly sure yet, but I may have. At least, by recomputing with an entirely new and morethan-somewhat weird set of deter minors, I got this," and he ran his fingertip along the smooth curve on the chart he had been studying. Mergon whistled through his teeth and Luloy, after staring for a moment said, "Wonderful! Expound, oh sage, and elucidate." "It had to have at least one component in the sixth, on the levd of thought, but no known detcrminori would affect it. Therefore I applied the mathematics of symbolic logic to a wide variety of hunches, dreams, Fve been here or done thbbefores, premonitions, intuitions... "Llenderllon's eyeballs!" Luloy broke in. "So that was what you ran us all through the wringer for, a whilo back." "Precisely. Using these new determinors in various configurations -- dictated not by mathematical reasoning, but by luck and by hunch and by perseverance -- I finally obtained a set of uniquely manipulable determinants that yielded this final smooth curve, the exactly fitting equation of which reduces beautifully to... "Hold it, Tamm," Mergon said, "you're losing me," and Luloy added, "You lost me long ago. What does it meatiT "It will take years to explore its ramifications, but one fact is clear: the fourth dimension of space does actually exist. Therefore the conclusion seems inescapable that..." "Stop it!" Luloy snapped. "This is terribly dangerous stuff to be talking about. That terrific kind of a breakthrough is just exactly what Klazmon -- the beast! -- has been after for years. And you know very well that we're not really free; that he has us under constant surveillance." "But by detector only," Mergon said. "A full working projection at this distance? Uh-uh. It might be smart, though, to be a little on the careful side, at that" D ays lengthened into weeks. The ex-Llurdan cruiser, renamed the Mallidax and converted into a Jelman worldlet, still hurtled along a rightline course toward the center of the First Universe, at a positive-and-negative acceleration that would keep her -- just barely! -- safe against collision with intergalactic clouds of gas or dust. The objective of their flight was a small sun, among whose quite undistinguished family of planets were a moderate-sized oxygen-bearing world and its rather large, but otherwise uninteresting companion moon. Tammon, hot on the trail of his breakthrough in science, kept his First Assistant Mergon busy fourteen or sixteen hours per day designing and building -- and sometimes inventing -- new and extremely special gear; and Mergon in turn drove Luloy, his wife and Girl Friday, as hard as he drove himself. Tammon, half the time, wore armor and bdlion-volt gloves against the terribly lethal forces he was tossing so nonchalantly from point to point. Mergon, only slightly less powerfully insulated, had to keep his variable-density goggles practically opaque against the eye-tearing frequencies of his welding arcs. And even Luloy, much as she detested the feel of clothing against her skin, was as armored and as insulated as was either of themen as she tested and checked and double-checked and operatedi with heavily gloved flying fingers, the maze of unguarded contit that was her constructor station. And all the other Jehni were working just as hard; even -- or especially? -- Master Biologist Sennlloy: who, with her long, thick braids of Norsegoddess hair piled high on her head and held in place by a platinum-filigree net, was delving deeper and ever deeper into the mystery of life. A ny research man worth his ssdt must not be the type to give up: he must be able to keep on butting his head against a stone wall indefinitely without hoisting the white flag. Thus, Tammon developed the theory after theory after theory for, and Mergon and Luloy built model after model after model of, mechanisms to transport material objects from one place to another in normal space by moving them, through the fourth dimension -- and model after model after model failed to work. They failed unfailingly. Unanimously. Wherefore Mergon had run somewhat low on enthusiasm when he and Luloy carried the forty-ninth model of the series into Tammon's laboratory to be put to the test. WHiile the old savant hooked the device up into a breadboard layout of gadgetry some fifteen feet long, Mergon somewhat boredly picked up as empty steel box, dropped six large ball-larings into k, closed and hasped its cover, grasped it firmly in his left hand, and placed an empty steel bowl on the bench. "Now," Tammon said, and flipped a switch -- and six heavy steel balls clanged into the bowl out of nowhere. "Huh?" Mergon's left hand had jumped upward of its own accord; and, fumbling in his haste, he opened the box in that hand and stared. Jaw actually agape, at its empty interior. IF "Llenderllon's eyeballs!" Luloy shrieked. "This one works!" "It does indeed," a technician agreed, and turned anxiously to Tammon. "But sir, doesn't that fact put us into a highly dangerous position Even though Klazmon can't operate a full working projection at this distance, he undoubtedly has had all his analytical detectors out all this time and this successful demonstration must have tripped at least some of them." "Not a chance," Mergon said. "He'll never find these bands -- it'd be exactly like trying to analyze a pattern of fifth-or sixth-order force with a visible-light spectroscope." "It probably would be, at that," the technician agreed, and Luloy said, "But what I've been wondering about all along is, what good is it? What's it for? Except robbing a bank or something, maybe." "It reduces theory to practice," Tammon told her. "It gives us priceless data, by the application of which to already-known concepts we will be able to build mechanisms and devices to perform operations hitherto deemed impossible. Operations unthought-of, in fact." "Maybe we should be pretty careful about it, though, at that," Mergon said. "To do very much real development work, we'll have to be using a lot of fairly unusual sixth-order stuff that he can detect and analyze. That will make him wonder what we're up to and he won't stop at wondering. He'll take steps." 'Big steps," Luloy agreed. Tammon nodded. "That is true... and we must land somewhere to do any worthwhile development work, since this ship is not large enough to house the projectors we will have to have. Also, we are short of certain necessities for such work, notably neutronium and faidons... and the projectors of these ultrabands will have to be of tremendous power, range, and scope... you are right. We must find a solar system emanating sixth-order' energies. Enough of them, if possible, to mask completely our own unavoidable emanations. We now have enough new data so that we can increase tremendously the range, delicacy, and accuracy of our own detectors. See to it, Mergon, and find a good landingplace." "Yes, sir!" and Mergon went, with enthusiasm again soaring high, to work. R ebuilding and re-powering their detector systems did not take very long; but finding the kind of landing place they needed proved to be something entirely else. They had more or less assumed that many galaxies would show as much sixth-order activity as did their own, but that assumption was wrong. In three weeks they found only three galaxies showing any at all; and not one of the three was emanating as much sixth-order stuff as their own small vessel was putting out. After another week or so, however, the savant on watch asked Mergon to come to his station. "There's something tremendous up ahead and off to starboard, Merg. That spot there." He pointed. "It's been there for almost half an hour and it hasn't in#S creased by a thousandth of what I expected it to. I would have said that at that distance nothing could possibly register that high." "Did you check your circuits?" Mergon asked. "Of course; everything's on the green." "Main Control!" Mergon snapped mto a microphone. "Mergon speakiof. FMp one eighty immediately. Deoel max." Wp one eighty," the speaker said, iHld the vessel turned rapidly end for CBcL... ON the mark and decelimdng at max." Mergon whirled around and sprinted for Tammon's laboratory. He yanked the door and reported, concluding, "It's apparently emanating thousands of times as much as our whole galaxy does, so we'd better sneak up on it with care." "Can we stop in time or will we have to overshoot and come back to it from the other side? That may affect course, you know." Mergon hadn't thought of that point, but he soon found out. They couldn't stop quite in time, but the overshoot would be a matter of less than a day. "See to it, Mergon," Tammon said, and resumed his interrupted studies. The approach was made. Surprise turned to consternation when it was learned that practically all of that emanation was coming from one planet instead of a thousand; but since that condition was even better than any that had been hoped for, they shielded everything that could be shielded and sneakeid up on that extraordinary world -- the third planet of a Type G sun. It had an unusually large satellite... and ideal location for their proposed operation... there were two small clusters of dome-shaped structures... abandoned... quite recently... with advanced technology all such things and procedures would of course be abandoned... and there were bits and pieces of what looked like wreckage. Seaton -- who had not yet seen at close up any part of the moon! -- would have recognized at a glance the American and the Russian Lunar outposts, and also what was left of Ranger Seven and of several other American and Russian moon-rockers. As a matter of fact, the Jelmi could deduce, within fairly narrow limits, what had happened on Earth's moon. But all they cared about was that, since the moon was not inhabited at that time, they would probably not attract undue attention if they landed on it and, thoroughly and properly screened, went to work. And Klazmon could not possibly detect them there. Luna's mountains are high and steep. Therefore, after e Mallidan had come easily to ground at the foot of one such mountain, it took only a day for the Mallidans mighty construction-projectors to hollow out and finish off a sub-Lunar base in that mountain's depths. And next day, early, work was begun upon the tremendous new superdreadnought of the void that was going to be named the MaU lidaxian. IF X Jelmi on the Moon M iss Madlyn Mannis -- nee Gretchen Schneider -- stood in the shade of a huge beach umbrella (perish forbid that any single square inch of that petal-smooth, creamily flawless epidermis should be exposed to Florida's fervent sun!) on Clearwater Beach. She was digging first one set of red-nailed toes and then the other, into the soft white sand, and was gazing pensively out over the wavelets of the Gulf. She was a tall girl, and beautifully built, with artistically waved artistically red hair: and every motion she made was made with the lithe grace of the highly trained professional dancer that she in fact was. She was one of the best exotic dancers in the business. As a matter of box-office fact, she was actually almost as good as she thought she was. She was wearing the skimpiest neobikini ever seen on Clearwater Beach and was paying no attention whatever, either to the outraged glares of all the other women in sight or to the distinctly unoutraged glances of the well built, deeply tanned, and highly appreciative young man who was standing some twenty feet away. She was wondering, however, and quite intensely, about the guy. He'd been following her around for a couple of weeks. Or had he? She'd seen him somewhere every day -- but he couldn't possibly have followed her here. Not only she hadn't known she was coming here until just before the started, but she had come by speedboat and had found him on the beach when she arrived! And the man was wondering, too. He knew that he hadn't been following her. Without hiring an eye, he wouldn't know how to. And the idea that Madlyn Mannis would be following him around was ridiculous  it really stunk. But how many times in a row could heads turn iip by pure chance alone? He didn't dare move anv closer, but he kept on looking and he kept on wondering. Would she slug him or just slap him or maybe even accept it, he wondered, if he should offer to buy the Miss Mannis a drink... M iss Mannis was also being studied, much more intensively and from much closer viewpoints, by two Jelmi in an immense new spaceship, the Mallidaxian, on the moon; and the more they studied the Mannis costume the more baffled they became. As had been said, the Jelmi had had to build this immense new spaceship because the comparatively tiny Mallidan, in which they had escaped from the Realm of the Llurdi, had proved too small by far to house the outsized gear necessary for accurately controlled intergalactic work of any kind. The Mallidaxian, however -- built as she was of inoson and sister-ship as she was to the largest, heaviest, and most powerful spacesluggers of the Realm -- was not only big enough to carry any instrumentation known to the science of the age, but also powerful enough to cope with any foreseeable development or contingency. The Jelman sub-Lunar base had been dismantled and collapsed. Its every distinguishing feature had been reduced to moon-dust. The Mallidaxian's slimly powerful length now extended for a distance of two and one half miles from the mountain's foot out into the level-floored crater: in less than an hour she would take off for Mallidax, the home world of Tammon, Mergon, Luloy, and several other top-bracket Jelmi of the fugitive eight hundred. The vessel's officers and crew were giving their instruments and mechanisms one last pre-flight check. Tammon was still studying the offensive and defensive capabilities of Cape Kennedy; Mergon and Luloy -- among others -- had been studying the human beings of this hitherto unknown world. Everyone aboard, of course, had long since mastered the principal languages of Earth. That Madlyn Mannix should have been selected for observation was not very astonishing. Some thousands of Earthmen -- and Earthwomen, Earthchildren, even Earthdogs and cats -- had been. There was that about Madlyn Mannix, however, and to a lesser degree about the male with whom she seemed in some way associated, that seemed to deserve special study. For one thing, the Jelmi had been  totally unable to deduce anv shred of evidence that might indicate her profession -- not so surprising, since the work of a stripper must seem pure fantasy to a world which habitually wears no clothes at all! Madlyn, although used to being talked about, would have been quite astonished to learn how interestedly she was being discussed on the far side of the moon. "Oh, let's bring her up here, Merg," Luloy said in disgust. "I want to talk to her -- find out what this idiocy means. We'd better bring that fellow along, too: she'd probably be scared out of her wits -- if any -- alone." "Check," Mergon said, and the two Tellurians appeared, standing close together, in the middle of the room. nphe girl screamed once; then, her A eyes caught by the awesome moonscape so starkly visible through the transparent wall, she froze and stared in terror. ITien, finding that she was not being hurt, she fought her terror down. She took one fleeting glance at Mergon, blushed to the waist, and concentrated on Luloy. "Why, you must... you do go naked!" she gasped. 'M the time! How utterly, utterly shameless!" "Shameless?" Lulov wrinkled her nose in perplexity. "That's what I want to talk to you about, this 'shame' concept. I can't understand it and its dictionary definition is senseless to the point of unsanity. I never heard of a concept before that so utterly lacked sense, reason, and logic. What significant difference can there possibly be between nakedness and one ribbon and two bits of gauze? And why in the name of All-Seeing Llenderllon wear any clothing at all when you don't have to? Against cold or thorns or whatever? And especially when you swim? And you take off your clothes too... IF "I do no such thing!" The dancer drew herself up haughtily. "I am an artiste. An exotic dancer's disrobing is a fine art, and I am Madlyn Mannis, the exotic dancer." "Be that as it may, just answer one question and we'll put you back where you werf', on the beach. What possible logical, reasonable, or even comprehensible relationship can there be between clothing and sex?" While the girl was groping for an answer, the man took one step forward and said, "She can't answer that question. Neither can I, fully, but I can state as a fact that such a relation .hip is a fact of our lives; of the lives of all the peoples -- even the least civilized peoples -- of our world. It's an inbred, ages-old, worldwide sexual taboo. Based, possibly or even probably, upon the idea 'out of sight, out of mind. " "A sexual taboo?" Luloy shook her head in complete bafflement. "Why, I never heard of anything so completely idiotic in my whole life! Will you wear these thought-caps with me for a moment, please, so that we may explore this weird concept in depth?" The girl flinched away from the helmet at first, but the man reached out for his, saying, "I've always claimed to have an open mind, but this I've got to see." Since complete non-comprehension of motivation on one side met fundamental ignorance on the other, however, thoughts were no more illuminating than words had been. "Neither she nor I know enough about the basics of that branch of anthropology," the man said, handing the helmet back to Luloy. "You'd better get a book. Mores and Customs of Tellus, by David Lisser, in five volumes, is the most complete work I know of. You can find it in any big bookstore. It's expensive, though -- it costs seventy-five dollars." "Oh? And we haven't any American money and we don't steal... but I've noticed that highly refractive bits of crystalline carbon of certain shades of color are of value here." T burning her back on the two Tellurians, Luloy went to the laboratory bench, opened a drawer, glanced into it, and shook her head. She picked up a helmet, thought into it, and there appeared upon the palm of her hand a perfectly cut, perfectly polished, blue-white diamond half the size of an egg. She turned back toward the two and held out her hand so that the man could inspect the gem, saying, "I have not given any attention at all to your monetary system, but this should be worth enough, I think, to leave in the place of the book of five volumes. Or should it be bigger?" Close up, the man goggled at bluewhite fire. BiggerI Than that rock? Lady! Are you kidding? If that thing will stand inspection it'll buy you a library, buildings and all!" "That's all I wanted to know. Thank you." Luloy turned to Mergon. "They don't know any more than..." "Just a minute, please," the man broke in. "If diamonds don't mean any more than that to you, why wouldn't it be a good idea for you make her some? To alleviate e Aock she has just had? Not as big, of course; none bigger than the end of my thumb." Luloy nodded. T know. Various sizes, for full-formal array. She's just about my size, so eleven of your quarts will do it." "My God, no... Madlyn began, but the man took smoothly over. "Not quite. Miss Luloy. Our ladies don't decorate their formals as lavishly as you apparently do. One quart, or maybe a quart and a half, will do very nicely." "Very well," Luloy looked directly at the man. "But you won't want to be lugging them around with you all the rest of the day -- they're heavy -- so I'll put them in the right-hand top drawer of the bureau in your bedroom. Good-by," and Mergon's hands began to move toward his controls. "Wait a minute!" the man exclaimed. "You cant just dump us back where we were without a word of explanation! While spaceships aren't my specialty -- I'm a petrochemical engineer tee eight -- I've never imagined anything as big as Ais vessel actually flying, and I'm just about as much interested in that as I am in the way we got here -- which has to be fourth-dimensional translation; it can't be anything else. So if everything isn't top secret, how about showing us around a little?" "The fourth-dimension device is top secret; so much so that only three or four of us know anything about it. You may study anything else you lease. Bearing in mind that we have only a few seconds over three of your minutes left, where woidd you like to begin?" "The engines first, please, and die drives." "And you. Miss Mannis? Arts? Crafts? Sciences? There is no dancing going on at the moment." The dancer's right hand flashed out, seized her fellow Earthman'i forearm and clung to it. "Wherever he goes I go along!" she said, very positively. Since neither of the two Earthpeople had ever been projected before, they were both very much surprised at how much can be learned via projection, and in how short a ti ne. They saw tremendous receptors und generators and propul sors; they saw the massed and banked and tiered keyboards and instrumentation of the control stations; they saw how the incredibly huge vessel's inoson structural mambers were trussed and latticed and braced and buttressed to make it possible for such a titanic structure to fly. Since everything aboard the original Jelman vessel had been moved aboard this vastly larger one before the original had been reduced to moon-dust, the dancer and her companion also saw beautiful, splendid, and magnificent -- if peculiarly unearthly -- paintings and statues and tapestries and rugs. They heard music, ranging from vast orchestral recordings down to the squeakings and tootlings of beginners learning to play musical instruments unknown to the humanity of Earth. And above all they saw people. Hundreds and hundreds of people; each one completely naked and each IF one ot a physical perfection almost never to be found on Earth. At time zero minus twenty seconds M ergon cut off the projectors and the Earthman looked at Luloy. She not only had swapped the dia mond tor the fivevolume set of books, she had already read over a hundred pages of Volume One. She was flipping pages almost as fast as hei thumb and forefinger could move, and she was absorbing the full content of the work at the rate of one glance per page. "You people seem to be as human as we are," Madlyn said, worriedly, "but outside of that you're nothing like us at all in any way. Where did you come from anyway?" "I can't tell you," Mergon said, flatly "Not that I don't want to, I can't. We're what you call human, yes; but our world Mallidax is a myriad of galaxies away from here -- so far away that the distance is completely incomprehensible to the mind. Good-bv." A nd Madlyn Mannis found herself -- with no lapse of time and with no sensation whatever of motion -- standing in her former tracks under the big umbrella on the beach. The only difference was that she was now standing still instead of digging her toes into the sand. She looked at her fellow moontraveler. He, too, was standing in the siame place as before, but he now looked as though he had been struck by lightning. She swallowed twice, then said, "Well, I'm awfully glad I wasn't alone when that hap..." she broke off abruptly, licked her lips, and went on in a strangely altered tone, "Or am I nuttier than a fruit-cake? Vos you dere, Shar-lee?" "I vas dere, Madlyn." He walked toward her. He was trying to grin, but was not having much success with it. "And my name is Charley -- Charles K. van der Gleiss." "My God! That makes it even worse -- or does it?" "I don't see how anything could; very well or very much... but I need a drink. How about you?" Brother! Do I! But we'll have to dress. You can't get anything on the beach here that's strong enough to cope with anything like that!" "I know. City owned. Teetotal. I'll see you out in front in a couple of minutes. In a taxi." "Make it five minutes, or maybe a bit more. And if you run out on me, Charles K. van der Gleiss, I'll... I'll hunt you up and kill you absolutely dead, so help me!" "Okay, I'll wait, but make it snappy. I need that drink." She had snatched up her robe and had taken off across the sand like a startled doe; her reply came back over one shoulder. need a drink? Oh, brother XI Blotto T he world had come a long way from the insular, mud-bound globe of rock and sea of the #s and #s; Seaton and Crane had seen to that. Norlaminian observers were a familiar sight to most humans -- if not in person, then surely IF teough die medium of TV or Ispefax. A thousand worlds had been photographed by Tellurian cameramen and reporters; the stories of the Osnomians, the Fenachrone, the Valeronians, even the Chlorans and the other weirdly nonhuman races of the outer void were a matter of public record. Nevertheless, it is a far different thing from knowing that other races exist to find yourself a guest of one from home; wherefore Madlyn and Charley's expressed intentions took immediate and tangible form. Madlyn Mannis and Charles K. van der Gleiss were facing each other across a amah table in a cnrtained booth; a table upon which a waiter was placing a pint of bonded hundred-proof bourbon and the various items properly accessory thereto. As soon as the curtain feh into place behind the departing waiter the girl seized the bottle, raised it to her mouth, and bed down a good two fingers -- as much as she could force down before her coughing, choking, and strangjing made her stop. 'Hey! Take it easy!" the man protested, taking the bottle from h hand and putting it gently down on the table. "You're not used to guzzling it like that; that's for plain damn sure." She gulped and coughed a few times; wiped her streaming eyes. "I'll tell the world I'm not; two little wies is always my limit, ordinarily. But I needed that jolt, Charley, to keep from flipping my lid completely. Don't you need one, too?" "I certainly do. A triple, at least, with a couple of snowflakes of ice and about five drops of water." He built the drink substantially as specified, took it down in three swallows, and drew a profoundly deep breath. "You heard me tell them I'm a petrochemical engineer, tee eight. So maybe that didn't hit me quite as hard as it did you, but bottled courage helps, believe me." He mixed another drink -- a single -- and docked an eyebrow at the girL "What'll you have as a chaser for that God-awful belt?" "A scant jigger -- three-quarters, about -- in a water glass," she said, promptly. "Two ice-cubes and fill it vnp with ice-water." He mixed the drink and she took a sip. "Thanks, Charley. This is much better for drinking purposes. Now maybe I can talk about what happened without blowing my top. I was going to wonder why we've been running into each other all the time lately, but that doesn't amount to anything compared to... I actually thought... in ft, I know very well... we were on... weren't we? Both of us?" "We were both on the moon," he said flatly. "To make things worse, we were inside a spaceship that I still don't believe can be built. Those are factsr "Uh-uh; that's what I mean. Positively nobody ever went to the moon or anywhere else off-Earth without being in something, and we didn't have even the famous paddle. And posi-cflmn-tively nobody -- but nobody -- ever got into and out of a tightly closed, vacuum-tight spaceship without anybody opening any doors or ports or anything. How do you play them tunes on your piccolo, friend?" "I don't; and the ship itself was almost as bad. Not only was it impossibly big; it was full oftuff that makes the equipment of the General Hoyt S. Vanderberg look like picks and shovels." She raised an eyebrow questioningly and he went on, "One of the missile-tracking vessels -- the hairiest hunks of electronic gadgetry ever built by man. What it all adds up to is a race of people somewhere who know as much more than even the Norlaminians do as we do than grasshoppers. So I think we had better report to the cops." "The copsV' she spat the word out like an oath. "Me? Madlyn Mannis? Squeal to the fuzz? When a great big gorilla slugs me in the brisket and heists fifteen grands' worth of diamonds off of me and I don't get... " S he broke off suddenly. Both had avoided mentioning the diamonds, but now the word was accidentally out. She shook her head vigorously, then said, "Uh-uh. They aren't there. Who ever heard of diamonds by the quart? Anyway, even if that Luloy could have done it and did. I'll bet they evaporated or something." "Or they'll turn out to be glass," he agreed. "No use looking, hardly, I don't think. Even if they are there and are real, you couldn't sell 'em without telling where they came from -- and you can't do that." "I couldn't? Don't be naive. Charley. Nobody ever asks me where I got any diamonds I sell -- I'd slap his silly face off. I can peddle your half, too, at almost wholesale. Not all at once, of course, but a few at a time, here and there." "Half, Uh-uh," he objected. "I was acting as your agent on that deal. Ten per cent." "Half," she insisted; then grinned suddenly. "But why argue about half of nothing? To get back onto the subject of cops -- the lugs! -- they brushed my report off as a stripper's publicity gag and I didn't get even one line in the papers. And if I report this weirdie they'll give me a one-way, most-direct-route ticket to the nearest funny-farm." "You've got a point there." He glowered at his drink. "I can see us babbling about instantaneous translation through the fourth dimension and an impossible spaceship on the moon manned by people exactly like us -- except that the men all look like Green Bay Packers and all the girls without exception are stacked like... like..." Words failed him. Madlyn nodded thoughtfully. "Uhhuh," she agreed. "They were certainly stacked. That Luloy... that biologist Sennlloy, who was studying all those worms and mice and things... all of 'em. And they swap hundred-carat perfect blue-white diamonds for books." "Yeah. We start blabbing that kind of stuff and we wind up in wraparounds." "You said it. But we've got to do something' "Well, we can report to an Observer -- " IF "Trt got a better idea. Let's tie iie reaily on." N either of them remembered very much of what happened after fbat, but at about three o'clock the following afternoon Charley van der Gleiss struggled upward through a lasses to consciousness. He was lying on the couch in his living room; fully dressed, even to his shoes. He worked himself up, very carefully, to a sitting position and shook his head as carefully. It didn't quite explode. Good -- he'd probably live. Walking as though on eggs, he made cautious way to the bedroom. She was lying, also fuhy dressed, on his bed. On the coverlet As he sat gingerly down on the side of the bed she opened one eye, then the other, put both hands to her head, and groaned; her features twisting in agony. "Stop shaking me, you... please,' she begged. "Oh, my poor head! It's coming clear off , , , right t the neck..." Then, becoming a little more conscious, she went on, "It didn't go back into the woodwork, Charley, did h? I'll see that horrible moonscape and that naked Liy as long as I live." "And I'll see that nightmare of a spaceship. While you're taking the tot shot at the bathroom I'll have 'em send up a gallon of black coffee, a couple of quarts of orange juice, and whatever the pill-roller downstairs says is good for what ails us. In the meantime, would you like a hair of the dog?" "My God, no!" She shuddered visibly. "I never got drunk in my life before -- I have to keep in shape, you know -- and if I live through this I swear I'll never take another drink as long as I live!" When they began to feel better Madlyn said, "Why don't you peek into that drawer, Charley? There just might be something in it." He did, and there was, and he gave her the honor of lifting the soft plastic bag out of the drawer. "My God!" she gasped. "There's four or five pounds of them!" She opened the bag with trembling fingers and stood entranced for half a minute, then took out a few of the gems and examined them minutely. "Charley," she said then, "if I know anything about diamonds -- and I admit that I know a lot -- these are not only real, but the finest things I have ever seen. I'm almost afraid to try to sell even the littlest ones. Men just simply don't give girls rocks like that. I'm not even sure that there are very many others like those aiound. If any." "Well, we would probably have had to talk to an Observer anyway, and this makes it a forced putt. Let's go, Maddy." "In this wreckage?" Expression highly scornful, she waved a hand at her rumpled and wrinkled green afternoon gown. "Are you completely out of your mind?" "Oh, that's easy. I'll shave and put on a clean shirt and an intelligent look and then we'll skip over to your place for you to slick up and then we'll go down to the Observer's office. Say, have you got a safedeposit box?" "No, but don't worry about that for a while, my friend. We haven't got 'em past the Observer yet!" A n hour later, looking and feeling almost human again, the two were ushered into the Observer's heavily screened private office. They told him, as nearly as they could remember, every detail of everything that had happened. He listened attentively. He had been among the Tellurians only a few short months; in the cautious thoughtful way of Norlaminians, he was far from ready to claim that he understood them. These two in particular seemed quite non-scientific and un-logical in their attitudes... and yet, he thought, and yet there was that about them which seemed to deserve a hearing. So he heard. Then he put on a headset and saw. Visually he investigated the far side of the moon; then, frowning slightly, he increased his power to microscopic magnification and re-examined half a dozen tiny areas. He then conferred briefly with Rovol of Rays on distant Noriamm, who in turn called Seaton into a long-distance three-way. "No doubt whatever about it," Seaton said. "If fliey hadn't been hiding from somebody or something they wouldn't have ground up that many thousands of tons of inooon into moon-dust -- that's a project, you know -- and I don't need to tell you that inoson does not occur in nature. Yes, we definitely need to know more about this one. Coming in!" Seaton's pn'ection aeared in the Observer's office and, after being introduced, handed thoughthelmets to Madlyn and Charley. "Put these on, please, and go over the whole thing again, in as fine detail as you possibly can. It's not that we doubt any of your statements; it's just that we want to record and to study very carefully all the sidebands of thought that can be made to appear." The two went over their stories again; this time being interrupted, every other second or two, by either Seaton or the Observer with sharply pertinent questions or suggestions. When, finally, both had been wrung completely dry, the Observer took off his helmet and said: "Although much of this material is not for public dissemination, I will tell you enough to relieve your minds of stress; especially since you have already seen some of it and I know that neither of you will talk." Being a very young Norlaminian, just graduated from the Country of Youth, he smiled at this, and the two smiled -- somewhat wryly -- back. "Wait a minute," Seaton said. "I'm not sure we want their minds relieved of too much stress. They both ring bells -- loud ones. I'd swear I know you both from somewhere, except I know darn well I've never met either of you before... it's a cinch nobody could ever forget meeting Madlyn Mannis..." He paused, then snapped a finger sharply. "Idiot! Of course! Where were you, both of you, at hours twentythree fifty-nine on the eighteenth?" "Huh? What is this, a gag?" van der Gleiss demanded. IF "Anything else but, believe mc," Seaton assured him. "Madlyn?" "One minute of midnight? That would be the finale of my first show... Oh-ohl Was the eighteenth a Friday?" "Yes." "That's it!" the girl was visibly excited now. "Something did happen. Don't ask me what -- all I know is I was just finishing my routine, and I got this feeling -- this feeling of importance about something. Why, you were in it!" She stared at Seaton's projection incredulously. "Yes! But -- you were different somehow. I don't know how. Like a -- like a reflection of you, or a bad photograph..." Through his headset Seaton thought a quick, private three-way conference with Rovol and the Norlaminian on Earth: " -- clearly refers to our beacon message -- " " -- yes, but holy cats, Rovol, what's this about a 'reflection'? -- " " -- conceivably some sort of triggered response from another race -- " It took less than a second, then Seaton continued with the girl and her companion, who were unaware that any interchange had taken place. "The 'something important' you're talking about, Madlyn, was a message that we broadcast. You might a response from some other race or civilization with a little more on the ball than we have. We've been hoping for an answer; it's just possible that, through you, we've got one. What was that 'reflection' like?" "I'd call it a psychic pull," said Madlyn promptly. "And now that you mention it, I felt it with these Jelmi too. And -- " Her eyes widened, and she turned to stare at Charky. Seaton snapped his fingers. "Look, Madlyn. Can you take time off to spend with us? I don't know what you've got into -- but I want you nearby if you get into it again!" "Why, certainly, Mr. Seaton. I mean -- Doctor aton. I'll call Moe -- that's my agent -- and cancel Vegas, and -- " "Thanks," grinned Seaton. "You won't lose anything by it." "I'm sure I won't, judging by... but oh, yes, how about those diamonds -- if they are?" "Oh, they are," the Norlaminian assured her, "and they're of course yours. Would you like to have me sell them for you?" She glanced questioningly at van der Gleiss, who nodded and gave the jewels to the Observer. Then, "We'd like that very much, sir," Madlyn said, "and thanks a lot." "Okay," laton said then. "Now, how about you, Charley. What kind of a jolt did you get at one minute of twelve that Friday night?" "Well, it was the first time I caught Madlyn's act, and I admit it's a sockeroo. She has the wallop of a piledriver, no question of that. But if you mean spirit-message flapdoodle or psychic poppycock, nothing. I'm not psychic myself -- not a trace -- and nobody can sell me that anybody else is, either. That stuff is purely the bunk -- it's strictly for the birds." "It isn't either. Mister Charles K. an der Gleiss!" Madlyn exclaimed. "And you are too psychic -- very strongly so! How else would we be stumbling over each other everywhere we go? And how else would I possibly get drunk with you?" She spread her hands out in appeal to the Observer. he psychic?" "My opinion is that he is unusually sensitive to certain forces, yes," the Norlaminian said. "Think carefully, youth. Wasn't there something more than the mental or esthetic appreciation of, and the physical-sexual thrill at, the work of a superb exotic dancer?" "Of course there was!" the man snapped. "But... but... oh, I don't know. Now that Madlyn mentions it, there was a sort of a feeling of a message. But I haven't got even the foggiest idea of what the goddam thing was!" "And that," Seaton said, "is about the best defimtion of it I've ever heard. We haven't either." xn DuQuesne and the Jelmi D uQuesne, who had not seen enough ot the Skylark of VaU eron to realize that it was an intergalactic spacecraft, had supposed that Seaton and his party were still aboard Skylark Three, which was of the same size and power as DuQuesne's own ship, the Capital D. Therefore, when it became clear just what it was with which the Capital D was making rendezvous, to say that DuQuesne was surprised is putting it very mildly indeed. He had supposed that his vessel was one of the three most powerful superdreadnoughts of space ever built -- but this This thing was not a spaceship at all! In every important respect it was a world. It was big enough to mount and to power offensive and defensive armament of full planetary capability... and if he knew Seaton and Crane half as well as he thought he did, that monstrosity could volatilize a world as easily as it could light a firecracker. He was second. Again. And such an insignificantly poor second as to be completely out of the competition. Something would have to be done about this intolerable situation... and finding out what could be done about it would take precedence over everything else until he did find out. He scowled in thought. That worldlet of a spaceship changed everything -- radically. He'd been going to let eager-beaver Seaton grab the ball and run with it while he, DuQuesne, went on about his own business. But now -- could he take the risk? Ten to one -- or a hundred to one? -- he couldn't touch that planetoid's safety screens with anything he had. But it was worth his while to try... Energizing the lightest possible fifthand sixth-order webs, he reached out with his utmost delicacy of touch to feel out the huge globe's equipment; to find out exactly what it had. He found out exactly nothing; and in zero time. At the first, almost imperceptible touch of DuQuesne's wch the mighty planetoid's every IF defense flared instantaneously into being. DuQuesne cut his webbing, the defenses vanished, and Seaton said, "No peeking, DuQuesne. Come inside and you can look around all you please, but from outside it can't be done." "I see it can't. How do I get . inside?" "One of your shuttles or small boats. Go neutral as soon as you clear your outer skin and I'll bring you in." "I'll do that," -- and as DuQuesne in one of his vessel's life-boats traversed the long series of locks through the worldlet's tremendously thick shell he kept on wrestling with his problem. No, the idea of letting Seaton be the Big Solo Hero was out like the well-known light. Seaton and his whole party would have to die. And the sooner the better. He'd known it all along, really; his thinking had slipped, back there, for sure. With that fireball of a ship -- flying base, rather -- by the time Seaton got the job done he would be so big that nothing could ever cut him down to size. For that matter, was there anything that could be done about Seaton and his planetoid, even at the size they already were? There was no vulnerability apparent... on the outside, at least. But there had to be something; some chink or opening; all he had to do was think of it -- like the time he and "Baby Doll" Coring had taken over a fully-manned superdreadnought of the Fenachrone. The smart thing to do, the besttliing for Marc C. DuQuesne, would be to join Seaton and work hand in glove with him -- for a while. Until he had a bigger, more powerful worldlet than Seaton did and knew more than all the Skylarkers put together. Then blow the Skylark of Valeron and everyone and everything in it into impalpable dust and go on about his own business; letting Civilization worry about itself. To get away with that, he might have to give his word to act as one of the party, as before. He never had broken his word... so he wouldn't give it, this time, unless he had to... but if he had to? If it came to a choice -- breaking his word or being Emperor Marc the First of a galaxy, founder of a dynasty the like of which no civilization had ever seen before? Whatever happened, come hell or high water, Seaton and his crew must and would die. He, DuQuesne, must and would come out on top! A s soon as DuQuesne's lifeboat was inside the enormous hollow globe that was the Skylark of Valeron, Seaton brought it to a gentle landing in a dock behind his own home and walked out to the dock with a thought-helmet on his head and its mate in his hand. DuQuesne opened his lifeboat's locks and Seaton joined him in the tiny craft's main compartment. Face to face, neither man spoke in greeting or offered to shake hands; both knew that there was nothing of friendship between them or ever would be. Nor did DuQuesne wonder why Seaton was meeting him thus; outside and alone. He knew exactly what the women, especially Margaret, thought of him; but such trifles had no effect whatever upon the essence of Marc C. DuQuesne. Seaton handed DuQuesne the spare headset. DuQuesne put it on and Seaton said in thought, "This, you'll notice, is no ordinary mechanical educator; not by seven thousand rows of Christmas trees. I suppose you know you're in the Skylark of Valeron. Study it, and take your time. I'll give you her prints before you go -- if we're going to have to be allies again you ought to have something better than your Capital D to work with." Seaton thought that this surprise might make DuQuesne's guard slip for an instant, but it didn't. DuQuesne studied the worldlet intensively for over an hour, then took off his headset and said: "Nice job, Seaton. Beautiful; especially that tank-chart of the First Universe and that super-computer brain -- some parts of which, I see, this headset enables me to operate. The rest of it, I suppose, is keyed to and in sync with your own mind? No others need apply?" "That's right. So, with the prints, you'll have everything you need, I think. But before you go into detail, I may know a thing that you don't and that may have a lot of bearing, one place or another. Have you ever heard of any way of getting into or through the fourth dimension except by rotation?" No. Not even in theory. How sure are you that there is or can be any other way of doing it?" "Positive. One that not even the Norlaminians know anything about," and Seaton gave DuQuesne the full picture and the full story and all the side-bands of thought of everything that had happened to Madly n Mannis and Charles van der Gleiss. A t the sight of Mergon and Luloy -- two of the three Jelmi whom the monstrous alien Klazmon had been comparing with the Fenachrone and with the chlorinebreathing amoeboid Chlorans and with DuQuesne himself -- it took every iota of DuQuesne's iron control to make no sign of the astounding burst of interest he felt; for in one blinding flash of revealment his entire course of action became pellucidly clear. He knew exactly where and what Galaxy DW-#-LU was. He knew how to get Seaton headed toward that galaxy. He knew how to kill Seaton and all his crew and take over the Skylark of Valeron. And, best of all, he knew how to cover his tracksl Completely unsuspicious of any of these thoughts, Seaton went on, "Now we're ready, I think, for the fine details of what you found out." After giving a precisely detailed report that lasted for twenty minutes, DuQuesne said, "Now as to location. I have a cylindrical chart -- a plug-chart, you might call it -- of all the galaxies lying close to the line between the point in space where your stasis-capsule whiffed out and the First Galaxy. IF Those four reels there." He pointed. "But I have no idea whatever as to where that plug lies in the universe -- its universal coordinates. But since you know where you are and I know how I got here, it can be computed -- in time." "In practically nothing flat," Seaton said. "As fast as you can run your tapes through your scanner there." Seaton put his headset back on; DuQuesne followed suit. "They don't even have to be in order. When the end of the last tape clears the scanner your plug will be in our tank." And it was: a long, narrow cylinder of yellowish-green haze. "Nice; very nice indeed." DuQuesne paid tribute to performance. "I started my trip right there." He marked the spot with a tiny purple light. It was a weird sensation, this; working, with that gigantic brain, in that super-gigantic tank-chart, with only a headset and at a distance of miles! "With my artificial gravity set to exact universal north as straight up," DuQuesne went on, "I moved along a course as close as possible to the axis of that cylinder to this point here." The purple point extended itself into a long line of purple light and stopped. "Klazmon's tight beam hit me at that point there, coming in from eighty-seven point four one eight degrees starboard and three point nine two six degrees universal south." D uQuesne's mind, terrifically hard held for that particular statement, revealed not the faintest side-band or other indication of what a monstrous lie that was. The figures themselves were very nearly right; but the fact that the beam had actually come in from the port and the north made a tremendous difference. The purple line darted off at almost a right angle to itself and DuQuesne went on without a break: "You'll note that there are two galaxies on that line; one about half way out to the rim of the universe -- " this galaxy actually was, in Klazmon's nomenclature, Galaxy DW-#-LU -- "the other one clear out; right on the rim itself. Under those conditions no reliable estimate of distance was possible, but if we assume that Klazmon's power is of the same order of magnitude as ours it would have to be the first one. However, I'm making no attempt to defend that assumption." "Sure not; but it's safe enough. I'd say, for a first approximation. So, making that assumption, that galaxy is where the Realm of the Llurdi is -- where the Llurdi and the Jelmi are. Where the folks that built that big battlewagon on the moon came from." "While the data do not prove it, by any means, that would be my best-educated guess. But my next one -- that that's where they're going back to -- isn't based on anything anywhere near that solid. Sidebands only, and not too many or too strong." "Yeah, I got some, too. But you're having first cut at this; go ahead," Seaton said. "Okay. First, you have to dig up some kind of an answer to Hie question of why those Jelmi came such an ungodly long distance away from home to do what was, after all, a small job of work. We know that they didn't do it just for fun. We know that Hie whole race of Jelmi is oppressed; we know that those eight hundred rebelled. We're fairly sure that Earth alone is, right now, putting out more sixth-order emanation than all the rest of the First Universe put together. "Okay. There were some indications that Tammon worked out the theory of that fourth-dimensional gizmo quite a while back; but they had to come this tremendous distance to find enough high-order emanation to mask their research and development work from His Nibs Llanzlan Klazmon the Fifteenth. "Now, My argument gets pretty tenuous at this point, but isn't it a fairly safe bet that, having reduced the theory of said gizmo to practice and having built a ship big enough to handle it like toothpicks, they'd beat it right back home as fast as they could leg it, knock the living hell out of the Llurdi -- they could, you know, like shooting fish in a well -- and issue a star-spangled Declaration of Independence? It does to me." "Check... While I didn't get there by exactly the same route you did, I arrived at the same destination. So it's not only got to be investigated; it's got to be Number One on the agenda. Question; who operates? Your baby or mine?" "You know the answer to that. I'll have oHier fiih to hy; quite poasibly until after you have the Jelman angle served." "My thought exactly." Seatoo assumed that DuQuesne's first, most urgent job would be to build a worldlet of his own; DuQuesne did not correct this Hiought. Seatoo went on, "The other question, then, is -- do we join forces again, or work independently... or maybe table the question temporarily, until you get yourself organized and we will have made at' least a stab at evaluating what this Llurdan menace actually amounts to?" "The last... I think." DuQuesne scowled in thought, then his face cleared; but at no time was there the slightest seepage of side-bands to the effect that he, DuQuesne, would see to it that Seaton would be dead long before that. Or that he, DuQuesne, did not give a tinker's damn whether anything was ever done about the Llurdan menace or not The two men discussed less important details for perhaps ten minutes longer; then DuQuesne took his leave. And, out in deep space again, with his mighty Capital D again boring a hole through the protesting ether, DuQuesne allowed himself a contemptuous and highly satisfactory sneer. B ack in their own living room, Seaton asked his wife, "Dottic, did you smell anything the least bit fishy about that?" "Not a thing, Dick. I gave it everything I had, and everything about it rang as true as a silver bell. Did you detect anything?" IF "Not a thing -- curse it! Even helmet to helmet -- as deep as I could go without putting the screws on and blowing everything higher than up -- it was flawless. But you've got to remember the guy's case-hardened and diamond finished... But you've also got to remember that I came to exactly the same conclusions he did -- and completely independently." "So every indication is that he is acting decently. He's been known to, you know." "Yeah. It's possible." Seaton did not sound at sold on the possibility. "But I wouldn't trust that big black ape as far as I could dropkick him I'd like awfully well to know whether he's pitching us a curve or not... and if he is, what the barb-tailed devil it can possibly be... so what we'll have to do, pet, is keep our eyes peeled and look a little bit out all the time." And, still scowling and still scanning and re-scanning every tiniest bit of data for flaws, Seaton set course for Galaxy DW-#-LU, having every reason to believe it the galaxy in which the Realm of the Llurdi lay. Also, although he did not mention this fact even to Dorothy, that course "felt right" to some deeply buried, unknown, and impossible sense in which he did not, could not, and would not believe. For Seaton did not know that Galaxy DW-#-LU was in fact going to be highly important to him in a way that he could not foresee; if he had known, would not have believed; if he had believed, would not have understood. For at that moment in time, not even Richard Ballinger Seaton knew what forces he had unleashed with his "cosmic beacon." xm DuQuesne and Sennlloy I n the eyes of Blackie DuQuesne, Seaton was forever and helplessly trapped in the philosophy of the "good guy". It was difficult for DuQuesne to comprehend why a mind of as high an order of excellence as Seaton's -- fully the equal of DuQuesne's own in many respects, as DuQuesne himself was prepared to concede -- should subscribe to the philosophy of lending a helping hand, accepting the defeat of an enemy without rancor, refraining from personal aggrandizement when the way was so easily and temptingly clear to take over the best part of a universe. Nevertheless, DuQuesne knew that these traits were part of Seaton's makeup. He had counted on them. He had not been disappointed. It would have been child's play for Seaton to have tricked and destroyed him as he entered that monster spaceship Seaton had somehow acquired. Instead of that, Seaton had made him a free gift of its equal! That, however, was not good enough for Blackie DuQuesne. Seeing how far Seaton had progressed had changed things. He could not accept the status of co-belligerent. He had to be the victor. And the one portentous hint he had gleaned from Seaton of the existence of a true fourth-dimensiond system could be the tool that would make him the victor; wherefore he set out at once to get it. Since he had misdirected Seaton as to the vector of the course of the Jelmi, sending him off on what, DuQuesne congratulated himself, was the wildest of wild-goose chases, DuQuesne need only proceed in the right direction and somehow -- anyhow; DuQuesne was superbly confident that he would find a means -- get from them the secret of what he needed to know. His vessel had power to spare. Therefore he cut in everything his mighty drives could take, computed a tremendous asymptotic curve into the line that the Jelmi must have taken, and took out after the intergalactic flyer that had left Earth's moon such a short time before. DuQuesne was aware that force would be an improbably successful means of getting what he wanted. Guile was equally satisfactory. Accordingly he took off his clothes and examined himself, front and back and sides, in a full-length mirror. He would do, he concluded. There would be nothing about his physical person which would cause him any trouble in his dealings with the Jelmi. Since he always took his sun-lamp treatments in the raw, his color gradation was right. He was too dark for a typical Caucasian Tellurian; but that was all right -- he wasn't going to be a Tellurian. He would, he decided, be a native of some planet whose people went naked... the planet Xylmny, in a galaxy 'way out on the Rim somewhere... yes, he had self-control enough not to give himself away. B ut his cabin wouldn't stand inspection on a usually naked basis, nor would any other private room of the ship. All had closets designed unmistakeably for clothing and it wasn't worth while to rebuild them. Okay, he'd be a researcher who had visited dozens of planets, and everybody had to wear some kind of clothing or trappings at some time or other. Protectively at least. And probably for formality or for decoration. Wherefore DuQuesne, with a helmet on his head and a half-smile, half-sneer on his face, let his imagiter closet with the utilitarian and the decorative garmenture of world after purely imaginative world. Then, after transferring his own Tellurian clothing to an empty closet, he devoted a couple of hours to designing and constructing the apparel of his equally imaginary native world Xylmny. In due time a call came in from the spaceship up ahead. "You who are following us from the direction of the world Tellus: do you speak English?' "Yes." "Why are you following us. Tellurian?" "I am not a Tellurian. I am from the planet Xylmny; which, while very similar to Tellus, lies in a distant galaxy." He told the caller, as well as he could in words, where IF Xylmny was. "I am a Seeker, Scvance by name. I have visited many planets very similar to yours and to Tellus and to my own in my Seeking. Tcllus itself had nothing worthy of my time, but I learned there that you have a certain knowledge as yet unknown to me; that of operating through the fourth dimension of space instantaneously, without becoming lost hopelessly therein, as is practically always the case when rotation is employed. Therefore I of course followed you." "Naturally. I would have done the tame. I am Savant Tammon of the planet Mallidax -- Llurdiaxorb Three -- which is our destination. You, then, have had one or more successes in rotation? Our rotational tests all failed." "We had only one success. As a Seeker I will be glad to give you the specifications of the structures, computers, and forces required for any possibility of success -- which is very slight at best." "This meeting is fortunate indeed. Have I your permission to come aboard your vessel, at such time as we approach each other nearly enough to make the fourth-dimensional transfer feasible?" "You certainly may, sir. Fll be very glad indeed to greet you in the flesh. And until that hour. Savant Tammon, so long and thanks." S ince Mergon braked the MaU lidaxian down hard to help make the approach, and since the two vessels did not have to be close together even in astronomical terms, it was not long until Tammon stood facing DuQuesne m the Capital D's control room. The aged savant inhaled deeply, flexed his knees, and said, "As I expected, our environments are very similar. We greet new friends with a four-hand clasp. Is that form satisfactory?" "Perfectly; it's very much like our own," DuQuesne said; and four hands clasped briefly. "Would you like to come aboard our vessel now?" Tanmnon asked. "The sooner the better," and they were both in Tammon's laboratory, where Mergon and Luloy looked DuQuesne over with interest. "Seeker Sevance," Tammon said then, "these are Savant Mergon, my first assistant, and Savant Luloy, his... well, 'wife' would be, I think, the closest possible English equivalent. You three are to become friends." The hand-clasp was six-fold this time, and the two Jelmi said in unison. "I'm happy that we are to become friends." "May our friendship ripen and deepen," DuQuesne improvised the formula and bowed over the cluster of hands. "But Seeker," Luloy said, as the cluster fell apart, "must all Seekers do their Seeking alone? I'd go stark raving mad if I had to be alone as long as you must have been." "Ture Seekers, yes. While it is true that any normal man misses the companionship of his kind, especially that of the opposite sex -- " DuQuesne gave Luloy a cool, contained smile as his glance traversed her superb figure -- "even such a master of concent rar ion as a true Seeker must be can concentrate better, more productively, when absolutely alone." Tammon nodded thoughtfully. "That nay well be true. Perhaps I shall try it 'myself. Now -- we have some little time before dinner. Is there any other matter you would like to discuss?" For that question DuQuesne was well prepared. A Seeker, after all, needs something to be Sought; and as he did not want to appear exclusively interested in something which even the unsuspicious Jelmi would be aware was a weapon of war, he had selected another subject about which to inquire. So he said at once: "A minor one, yes. While I am scarcely even a tyro in biology, I have pondered the matter of many -- of apparently identical and quite possibly inter-fertile human races spaced so immensely far apart in space that any possibility of a common ancenstry is precluded." "Ahl" Tammon's eyes lit up. "One of my favorite subjects; one upon which I have done much work. We Jelmi and the Tellurians are very far apart indeed in space, yet crossbreeding is successful. In vitro, that is, and as far as I could carry the experimeqt. I can not synthesize a living placenta. No in vitro trial was made, since we of course could not abduct a Tellurian woman and not one of our young women cared to bear a child fathered by any Tellurian male we saw." "From what I saw there I don't blame them," agreed DuQuesne. It was only the truth of his feelioga about Tellurians -- with one important exception. "But doesn't your success in vitro necessitate a common ancestry?" "In a sense, yes; but not in the ordinary sense. It goes back to the unthinkably remote origin of all life. You can, I suppose, synthesize any non-living substance you please? Perfectly, down to what is apparently its ultimately fine structure?" "I see what .you mean." DuQuesne, who had never thought really deeply about that fact, was hit hard. "Steak, for instance. Perfect in every respect except in that it never has been of life, but they are not alive and we cannot bring them to life. And, conversely, we cannot dematerialize living flesh." "Precisely. Life may be an extradimensional attribute. Its basis may lie in some ordei deeper than any now known. Whatever the truth may be, it seems to be known at present only to the omnipotence Who we of Mailidax call Llenderllon. All we know about life is that it is an immensely strong binding force and that its source -- proximate, I mean, of course, not its ultimate origin -- is the living spores that are drifting about in open space." "Wait a minute," DuQuesne said. "We had a theory like that long ago. So did Tellus -- a scientist named Arrhenius -- but all such theories were finally held to be untenable. Wishful thinking." "I know. Less than one year ago, IF I however, after twenty yean of ' search. I found one such spare. Its . descendants have been living and I evolving ever since." D uQuesne's jaw dropped. "You don't say! That I want to see!" Tammon nded. "I have rigorous proof of authenticity. While it is entirely unlike any other form of life with which I am familiar, it is very interesting." "It would be, but there's one other objection. What is the chance that on any two worlds humanity would have reached exactly the same stage of evolution at any given time?" "Ah! That is the crux of my theory, which I hope some day to prove; that when man's brain becomes large enough and complt enough to employ his hands efficiently enough, the optimum form of life for that environment has been reached and evolution stops. Thenceforth all mutants and sports are unable to compete with Homo Sapiens and do not survive." DuQuesne thought for a long minute. Norlamin was very decidedly not a Tellus-Type planet. "Some Xylmnians have it, 'Man is the ultimate creation of God.' On Tellus it's 'God created man in his own image.' And of course the fact that I've never believed it -- and I still think it's unjustifiable racial selfglorification -- does not invalidate it." "Of course it doesn't. But to revert to the main topic, would you be experiment?" DuQuesne smiled at that, then chuckled deeply. "I eakily would, sir; and not for purely scientific reasons, either." "Oh, that would be no problem. Nor is your present quest -- it will take only a short time to install the various mechanisms in your vessel and to instruct you in their us. If my snap judgment is sound, however, this other may very well become' of paramount importance and require a few days of time." He touched a button on an intercom and said, "Senny." "Yes?" came in a deep contralto from the speaker. "Will you come in here pi ease? It concerns the in vivo experiment we have been discussing." "Oh? Right away, Tamm," and in about half a minute a young woman came striding in. DuQuesne stared, for she was a living shield-maiden -- a veritable Valkyrie of flesh and blood. If she had had wings and if her pale blonde hair had been flying loose instead of being piled high on her head in thick, heavy braids, DuQuesne thought, she could have stepped right out of Wagenhorst's immortal painting Ragnarok. Tammon introduced them. "Seeker Sevance of Xylmny, Savant Sennlloy of Allondax, you two are to become friends." "I'm happy that we are to become friends," the girl said, in English, extending her hands. DuQuesne took them, bowed over them, and said, "May our friendship ripen and deepen. She examined him minutely, from the top of his head down to his toenails, in silence; then, turning to Tammon, she uttered a long sentence of which DuQuesne could not understand a word. "You should speak English, my dear," Tammon said. "It is inurbane to exclude a guest from a conversation concerning him." "It is twice as inurbane," she countered in English, "to insult a guest, even by implication, who does not deserve it." "That is true," Tammon agreed, "but I have studied him to some little depth and it is virtually certain that the matter lies in your province rather than mine. The decision is, of course, yours. Caps-on with him, please, and decide." S he donned a helmet and handed its mate to DuQuesne. Expecting a full-scale mental assault, he put up every block he had; but she did not think at him at all. Instead, she bored deep down into the most ab # rsmal recesses of his flesh; down and down and down to depths where he -- expert though he was at synthesizing perfectly any tangible article of matter -- could not follow. Eyes sparkling, she tossed both helmets onto a bench and seized both his hands in a grip very different from the casual clasp she had used a few minutes before. "I am glad  very,' very glad, friend Seeker Sevance, that we are friends!" Although DuQuesne was amazed at this remarkable change, he played up. He bowed over her hands and, this time, kissed each of them. "I thank you, Lady Sennlloy. My pleasure is immeasurable." He smiled warmly and went on, "Since I am a stranger and thus ignorant of your conventions and in particular of your taboos, may I without offense request the pleasure of your company at dinner? And my friends call me Vance." She returned his smile as warmly. Neither of them was paying any attention at all to anyone else in the room. "And mine call me Senny. You may indeed, friend Vance, and I accept your invitation with joyous thanks. We go out that archway there and turn left." They walked slowly toward the indicated exit; side by side and so close together that hip touched hip at almost every step. In the corridor, however, Sennlloy put her hand on DuQuesne's arm and stopped. "But hold, friend Vance," she said. "We should, don't you think, make this, our first meal together, one of full formality?" "I do indeed. I would not have suggested it but I'm very much in favor of it." "Splendid! We'll go to my room first, then. This way," and she steered him into and along a corridor whose blankly featureless walls were opaque instead of transparent. Was this his cue? DuQuesne wondered. No, he decided. She wasn't the type to rush things. She was civilized... more so than he was. If he didn't play it just about right with this girl, who was very evidently a big wheel, she could and very probably would queer his whole deal. As they strolled along DuQuesne IF MW that the walls were not quite featureless. At about head height, every twenty-five feet or so, there was inset a disk of optical plastic perhaps an inch in diameter. Stopping, and turning to face one of these disks, Senniloy pressed her right forefinger against it, explaining as she did so, "It opens to my fingerprints only." There was an almost inaudible hiss of compressed air and a micromctrically fitted door -- a good seven feet high and three feet wide moved an inch out into the hall and slid smoothly aside upon tracks that certainly had not been there an instant before. DuQuesne never did find out how the thing worked. He was too busy staring into the room and watching and hearing what the girl was doing and saying. She stepped back a half-step, bowed gracefully from the waist, and with a sweeping gesture of both hands invited him to precede her into the room. She started to say something in her own language -- Allondaxian -- but after a couple of words changed effortlessly to Enlish. "Friend Seeker Sevance, it is in earnest of our friendship that I welcome you into the privacy of my home" -- and her manner made it perfectly clear that, while the phraseology was conventionally formal, in this case it was really meant. And DuQuesne felt it; felt it so strongly that he did not bluff or coin a responsive phrase. Instead: "Thank you. Lady Senniloy. We of Xylmny do not have anything comparable, but I appreciate your welcome and thank you immensely." I nside the rocMn, DuQuesne stared. He had wondered what this girl's private quarters would be like. She was a master scientist, true. But she was wannly human, not bookishly aloof. And what would seventy thousand years of evolution do to feminine vanity? Especially to a vanity that apparently had never been afflicted by false modesty? Or by any sexual taboos? The furniture -- heavy, solid, plain, and built of what looked like golden oak -- locked ordinary and utilitarian enough. Much of it was designed for, and was completely filled with and devoted to, the tools and equipment and tapes and scanners of the top-bracket biologist Senniloy of AUondax in fact was. The floor was of mathematically figured, vari-colored, plastic tile. The ceiling was one vast sheet of softly glowing white light. Three of the walls were ordinary enough. DuQuesne scarcely glanced at them because of the fourth, which was a single canvas eight feet high and over thirty feet long. One painting. What a painting! A painting of life itself; a painting that seemed actually to writhe and to crawl and to vibrate with the very essence of life itself! One-celled life, striving fiercely upward in the primordial sea toward the light. Fiercely striving young fishes, walking determinedly ashore on their fins. Young about-to-become-mammals succeeding in their various climbings of evolution's tremendous ladder. Striving young mammals developing tails and climbing up into trees -- losing tails, with Ae development of true thumbs, ind coming down to earth again out of the trees -- the ever-enlarging brain resulting in the appearance of true man. And finally, the development and the progress and the history of man himself. And every being, from unicell to man, was striving with all its might At almost the end of that heartstopping painting there was a portrait of Sennlloy herself in the arms of a man; a yellow-haired, smoothshaven Hercules so fantastically well-drawn, so incredibly aliveseeming. that DuQuesne stared in awe. Beyond those two climactic figures the painting became a pure abstract of form and of line and color; an abstract, however, that was crammed full of invisible but very apparent question marks. It asked -- more, it demanded and it yelled -- What is coming nextT' D uQuesne, who had been holding his breath, let it out and breathed deeply. "And you painted that yourself," he marveled. "Milady Sennlloy, if you never do anything else as long as you live, you will have achieved immortality." She blushed to the breasts. "Thanks, friend Vance. I'm very glad you' like it: I was sure you would." "It's so terrific that words fail," he said, and meant. Then, nodding at the portrait, he went on, "Your husband?" She shook her head. "Not yet. He has not the genes the Lluidi wish to propagate, so we could not marry and he had to stay on Allondax instead of becoming one of this group. But he and I love each other more than life. When we Jelmi .aboard this Mallidaxian have taught those accursed Llurdi their lesson, we will marry and we'll never be parted again. But time presses, friend Vance; we must consider our formalities." Walking around the foot of her bed -- the satin covejlet of which bore, in red and gold, a motif that almost made even DuQuesne blush -- she went to a bureau-like piece of furniture and began to pull open its bottom drawer. Then, changing her mind, she closed it sharply; but not before the man got a glimpse of its contents that made him catch his breath. That drawer contained at least two bushels of the most fantastic jewelry EhiQuesne had ever seen! Shaking her head, Sennlloy went on, "No. My formality should not influence yours. The fact that you appreciate and employ formality implies, does it not, that you do not materialize and dematerialize its material symbols, but cherish them?" "Yes; you and I think very much alike on that," DuQuesne agreed. He was still feeling his way. This hadnt been a cue; that was now abundantly certain. In fact, with Sennlloy so deeply in love with one man, she probably wouldn't be in the business herself at all... or would she? Were these people advanced enough -- if you could call it advancement -- different enough, anyway -- to reIF gard sex-for-love and sex-for-knprovement-of-race as two entirely different matters; so completely unrelated as not to affect each other? He simply didn't know. Data insufficient. However the thing was to go, he'd played along so far; he'd still play along. Wherefore, without any noticeable pause, he went on: "I intended to comply with your conventions, but I'll be glad to use my own if you prefer. So I'll ask Tammon to flip me over to my own ship to put olimy high-formal gear." "Oh, no; I'll do it" Donning the helmet that had been lying on the beautifully grained oak-like top of the bureau, she took his left hand and compared his wristwatch briefly with the timepiece on the wall. "I'll bring you back here in... in how many of your minutes?" "Ten minutes will be time enough." "In exactly ten minutes from -- " She waited until the sweep hand of his watch was exactly at the dot of twelve o'clock. "Mark," she said Aen, and DuQuesne found himself standing in his own private cabin aboard the Capital D. H e picked up shaving cream aiKl brush; then, asking aloud, "How stupid can you get, fool?" he tossed them back onto the shelf, put on his helmet, and thought his whiskers off flush with the surface of his skin. Then, partly from habit but mostly by design -- its riddy masculine, heady scent was supposed to "wow the women" -- he rubbed on a couple of squirts of after-shave lotion. Opening closet doors, he looked at the just-nicely-broken-in trappings he had made such a short time before. How should he do it, jeweled or plain? She was going to be gussied up like a Christmas tree, so he'd better go plain. Showy, plenty; but no jewels. And, judging by that spectacular coverlet and other items in her room, she liked fire-engine red and gold. Okay. Taking off his watch and donning one exactly like it except for the fact that it kept purely imaginary Xylmnian time -- that had been a slip; if she'd noticed it, she'd have wondered why he was running on Tellurian time -- he dressed himself in full panoply of Xylmnian finery and examined himself carefully in a full-length mirror. He now wore a winged and crested headpiece of interlaced platinum strips; the front of the crest ridging up into a three-inch platinum disk emblazoned with an intricate heraldic design in deeply inlaid massive gold. A heavy collar, two armbands, and two wristlets, all made of woven and braided platinum strands, each bore the same symbolic disk. He wore a sleeveless shirt and legless shorts of gleaming, glaringlyred silk, with knee-length hose to match -- and red-leather-lined buskins of solid-gold chain mail. And lastly, a crossed-strap belt, also of massive but' supple gold link, with three platinum comets on each shoulder, supported a solid-platinum scabbard containing an extremely practical knife. He drew the blade. Basket-hilted and with fifteen inches of heavy, wickedly curved, peculiarly shaped, razor edged and needle pointed stainless-steel blade, it was in fact an atrocious weapon indeed -- and completely unlike any item of formal dress that DuQuesne had ever heard of. All this had taken nine and one half minutes by his watch -- by his Earth-watch, lying now upon his dresser. The time was now zero minus exactly twenty-eight seconds. Seeker Sevance of Xylmny P recisely on the tick of time DuQuesne stood again in Sennlloy's room. He glanced at her; then stood flat-footed and simply goggled. He had expected a display, but this was something that had to be seen to be believed -- and then but barely. She was literally ablaze with every kind of gem he had ever seen and a dozen kinds completely new to him. Just as she stood, she could have supplied Tiffany and Cartier both for five years. Yet she did not look barbaric. Blue-eyed, with an incredible cascade of pale blonde hair cut squarely across well below her hips, she looked both regal and virginal. "Wow!" he exclaimed finally. "The English has -- not a word for it, but a sound," and he executed a long-drawn-out wolf-whistle. She laughed delightedly. "Oh? I did not hear that on Tellus; but it sounds... appreciative." "It is. Milady. Very." He took her hands and bowed over them. "May IF I say, Lady Senny, that you are the most beautiful woman I have ever seen?" "'Milady.' 'Lady. I have not told you how much I like those terms, friend Vance. I'm wonderfully pleased that you find me so. You're magnificently handsome yourself... and you smell nice, too." She came squarely up to him and sniffed approvingly. "But the... the blade of formality. May I look at it, please?" She examined it closely, then went on, "Tell me, Vance, how old is your recorded history? Just roughly, m Tellurian years?" This could be a crucial question, DuQuesne realized; but, since he didn't know the score yet, he hadn't better lie too much. "Before I answer that; you're a biologist, aren't you, and in the top bracket?" "Yes. In English it would have to be 'anthropological biologist' and yes, I know my specialty very well." "Okay. For better or for worse, here it is. Xylmny's recorded history goes back a little over six thousand Tellurian years." "Oh, wonderful!" she breathed. "Perfect! That's what I read, but I could scarcely believe it. A young race. Mature, but still possessing the fire and the power and the genius that those accursed Llurdi have been breeding out of all us Jelmi for many thousands of years. They want us to produce geniuses for them, but they kill or sterilize all our aggressive, combative, rebellious young men. A few of us women carry all the necessary female genes, but without their male complements, dominant in heredky, we all might exactly at well have none of them." "I see... but how about Tammon?" "He's sterile, since he was a genius before he became a rebel. And ho kept on being a genius; one of the very few exceptions to the rule. But since the Llurdi are insanely logical, one exception to any rule invalidates that rule." She glanced at the clock. "It's time to go now." Walking slowly along the corridor, DuQuesne said, " 'Insanely logical' is right. I knew that there was a lot more to this than just an experiment, but I had no idea it was to put new and younger blood into an entire race. But with mothers such as you have in mind -- " "Mothers?" She broke in. "You already know, then?" "Of course. I am sufficiently familiar with your specialty to know what a top-bracket biologist can do and how you intend to do it. With mothers of your class some of our sons may make genius grade, but what's to keep them alive?" "We will." Sennlloy's voice and mien became of a sudden grim. "This fourth-dimension device that Tammon is going to give you was developed only a few weeks ago, since we left Llurdiax. The Llurdi know nothing whatever of it. When we get back to our own galaxy with it, either the Llurdi wfll grant us our full freedom or we will kill every Llurdi alive. And being insanely logical, they'll grant it without a fight: without even an argument, Sancil bum their teeth, wings, and tails!" D uQuesne did not tdl tbe gW how interested he was m ibc LIurdi; especiafly in Llanzlan Klazmon the Fifteenth. Instead, Tliat makes a weird kind of sense, at that," he said. "Tell me more about these LIurdi," and she told him about them all the rest of the way to the dining hall. They went through an archway, stepped aside, and looked around. Three or four hundred people were in the hall already, and more were streaming in from all sides. Some were eating, in oonles or in groups of various mimlbers, at tables of various sizes. Dress varied from nothing at all op to several spectaculars as flamhoyant as Sennlloy's own. Infonnal, semi-formal, and formal; and the people themselves were alike in orfy one respect -- that of physical perfection. DuQuesne had never seen anything like it and said so; and Sennlloy explained, conchicfiog: "So, you see, we eight hundred are the v pick of two hundred forty-one planetr, which makes this an ideal primary situation. The reason I wanted you to look around carefully is that perhaps I should not be the only Prime Operative." She paused: it was quke evident that she was not at all in favor of the idea. "Why not?" DuQuesne wasn't in favor of it, either; even though he couldn't begin to understand cither her attitude or her behavior. How could any woman possibly be as deeply in love with one man as Sennlloy very cvidentiy was, and yet act as she was acting toward such a complete stranger as himsdf? It baffled him completely, but he'd still play along -- especially since he was siering no pain at all. "It won't make any difference in the long run, will it?" "Of course not. I just thought maybe you would relish diversity," Seiinlloy said. "You can unthink it. I wouldn't. There's no tomcat blood in me -- and remember what I said?" "Do you think I don't? But you've seen some really beautiful women now. Mudh prettier than I am." "You know what they call that technique in English? 'Fishing'," grinned DuQuesne. "Prettier or not, Milady, you top them all by a country mile." 'I Imow about fishing. I was fishing a little, perhaps." She laughed happily and hugged hk arm against her breast. "But it did get you to say it again, and it means ever so much nKre, now that you've seen the competition." She steered him to a table for two against a waB, where he seated her meticulously -- a gesture that, while evidently new to her, was evidently liked. "You order," she said handing him the hrimet You invited me, you know." "But I don't know what you like to eat." "Oh, I like almost everything, really; and if there should be anything I don't like I won't eat it. Okay?" "Okay," and DuQuesne proceeded to set die taWe widi fine linen and translucent china and sterling silver and sparkling cut glass. IF T he first coarse was a thin, dear soup; which Sennlloy liked. She also liked the crisp lettuce with Roquefort dressing; the medium rare roast beef with mushroom sauce and the asparagus in butter and the baked Idaho potato stuffed with sour cream; and she especially enjoyed the fruits-and-nuts-filled Nesselrode ice cream. She did not, howeverlike his corrosively strong, black, unsweetened coffee at all. Wrinkling her nose, she sniffed at it, then took a tiny sip, which she let flow back into the cup. "How can you possibly drink such vile stuff as that?" she demanded, and replaced it with a tall glass of fizzy, viscous concoction that looked like eggnog and reeked of something that was halfway between almond and lemon. After dinner -- DuQuesne wanted to smoke, but since no one else was doing anything of the kind he could and would get along without it as long as he was aboard the Mallidaxian -- they milled about duced him right and left and showed him off generally; especially to over a hundred stunning young women, with whom she discussed the "project" in American English with a completely uninhibited frankness that made DuQuesne blush more than once. After something over an hour of this the crowd broke up; and as the two left the hall Sennlloy said, "Hal We're free now, my Vance, to go about our business!" Arms tightly around each other, savoring each contact and each motion, they walked slowly and in silence to nnlloy's room. T hree Mallidaxian days later, DuQuesne took his leave. Of Sennlloy last, of course. She put her arms around him and rubbed her cheek against his. "Good-by, friend Vance. I have joyed our association tremendously. Scarcely ever before has work been such pleasure. So much so that I feel guilty of selfishness." "You needn't. Milady. That was exactly the way I wanted it, remember?" "I remember with joy; and I have wondered why." "Because you are the only one of your class aboard this ship," DuQuesne said. "You said that, but still -- well, I am the only Allondaxian aboard, which may account for our great compatibility. And there should be, as there has been, something more than the purely physical involved." DuQuesne was very glad she had said that; it gave him one last chance to explore. "Definitely," he agreed. "Liking, respvect, appreciation, admiration -- you're a tremendous lot of woman. Milady Sennlloy. But not love. Naturally." "Of course not. I have my love and my work and my planet; you have yours; it would be terrible for either of us or any of ours to be hurt. "Our rememberings of each other should be and will be most pleasant. Good-by, friend Vance; may AU Powerful Llenderllon guard you and aid you as you Seek." XV DuQuesne's Assassins N ot even Marc DuQuesne was able -- quite! -- to put his rather astonishing, and totally pleasurable, experiences with the Jelmi -- and with one Jelm in particular! -- out of his mind without a second's hesitation. In another man, his mood as he set a minimum-time course and began to speed back to Earth, might have been called nostalgic... even sentimental. But as the parsecs fled by his thoughts hardened. And just in time; for some very hard things indeed had to be done. First and foremost, his deal with Seaton was utterly, irrevocably and permanently off. He no longer needed it. With the information he had received from the Jelmi, he had no further reason to worry about Seaton's offensive capabilities. Of course, there was no reason for Seaton to know that. Or not until it was entirely too late to do Seaton any good. Let Seaton go on dawdling toward this Galaxy DW#-LU. Seaton would be traveling at only normal max; DuQuesne would have time to make his arrangements, transact his business and act while Seaton was still on the way. He did not intend to go to Earth, only to within working distance of it. Eveu so, he had a certain amount of time to spend He spent k, all of it, in studying and operating the new device, whidi was called by the Jcim a mune winch SennSoy had told him corresponded roughly to "quad". And immediately he ran headlong into trouble. To DuQuesne's keen disappointment, the confounded thing was both more and less useful than he had hoped. More: Its range was enormous, much more than he had expected. Less: -- well, it simply didn't do any of the normal things that any machine could be made to do. And he could not tell why. He had received too much knowledge too fast; it took time to nail down all the details. He could send himself anywhere, but he could not bring himself back. He had to be at the controls. Remote control wouldn't work and he couldn't find out why not. The thing -- in its present state of development, at least -- couldn't handle a working projection; and he couldn't explain that fact, cither. There was no way at all, apparently, of coupling the two transmitters together or of automating the controls -- which was absurd on the face of it. There were job lots of things it couldn't do; and in no case at all could he imderstand why not. That condition was, however, perfectly natural. In fact, it was inevitable. For, as has been pointed out, the laws of the fourth-dimensional region are completely inexplicable in three-dimensional terms. Obvious impossibilities become commonplace events; many things that are incvkable in our ordinary contimium become starkly impossible there. Twmmon had told DuQuesne just IF that; Seaton had told him the same, and much more strongly for having been there in person; but DuQuesne could not help but boggle at such information. Of the three men, he was far and away the least able to accept an obvious impossibility as a fact and go on from there. So Blackie DuQuesne, his face like a steel-black thundercloud, methodically and untiringly worked with his new device until he was quite sure that of all the things he could make it do, he could make it do all of them very well. And that would be enough. Never mind the things it wouldn't do. What it would do would be plenty to get rid of Richard Ballinger Seaton once and for all. W ithin range of Earth at last, DuQuesne set about the first step in that program. The simplest and crudest methods would work -- backed by the weird fourth-dimensional powers of the quad. And DuQuesne knew exactly how about recruiting the assistance he needed in those methods. He launched a working projection of himself to the Safe Deposit Department of the First National Bank. He signed a name and counted out a sheaf of currency from a box. He then took a taxi to the World Steel Bulding and an elevator up to the office of the President. Brushing aside private secretaries, vice presidents, and other small fry, he strode through a succession of private offices into the sanctum sanctorum of President Brookings himself. The tycoon was, as usual, alone. If he was surprised at the intrusion he did not show it. He took the big cigar from his mouth, little-fingered half an inch of ash from the end of it into a bronze tray, put it back between his teeth, and waited. "Still thinking your usual devious, petty-larceny, half-vast thoughts, eh, Brookings?" DuQuesne sneered. "I didn't think that even you. Doctor, would have the sublime gall to show up around here again,' Brookings said, evenly. "Even via projection, after the raw stuff you pulled and the ungodly flop you made of everything. Especially after the way your pal Seaton dragged you out of here with your tail between your legs. Incidently, it took everything you had coming to repair the damage you did to the building on your way out." "Stupid as ever, I see. And the galaxy's tightest penny-pincher. But back pay and the law of contracts and so forth are of no importance at the moment. What I'm here about is: with all these Norlaminian socalled 'observers' looking down the back of your neck all the time, Perkins' successor and his goon squads must be eating mighty low on the hog." "We haven't any -- " At DuQuesne's sardonically contemptuous smile Brookings changed instantly the sense of what he had been going to say -- "work for them, to speak of, at that. Why?" "So six of your best and fastest gunnies would be interested in ten grand apiece for a month's loaf and a minute's work." "Dont say mine. Doctor. Pleasel You know very well that I never have anything to do with anything like that." "No? But you know who took over the Perkins Cafe and the topmobster job after I killed Perkins. So I want six off the top downstairs in the lobby at sixteen hours Eastern Daylight time today." "You know I never handle -- " "Shut up! I'm not asking you -- I'm telling you. You'll handle this, or else." Brookings shrugged his shoulders and sighed. He knew DuQuesne. "If you want good men they'll have to know what the job is." "Naturally. Dick and Dorothy Seaton, Martin and Margaret Crane, and their Jap Shiro and his wife -- Apple Blossom or whatever her name is. Seaton's fast, for an amateur, but he's no pro. Crane is slow -- he thinks and aims. And the others dcm't count. I'll guarantee complete surprise enough for one clear shot at Seaton. Anybody who is apt to need two shots I don't want. So -- no problem." "I'll see what I can do." Since DuQuesne knew that was as close as Brookings ever came to saying "yes", he accepted it. "In advance, of course." Brookings held out his hand. "Naturally." DuQuesne took a rubber-band sheaf of thousanddollar bills out of his inside coat pocket and tossed it across the desk. "Count 'em." "Naturally." Brookings picked the sheaf up and riffled througi k. "Correct. Good-by, Doctor." "Good-by," DuQuesne said, and the projection vanished. A t four o'clock that afternoon DuQuesne picked up his goons -- through the fourth dimension, which surprised them tremendously and scared them no little, although none of them would admit that fact -- and headed for the galaxy toward which the Skylark of Valeron had been flying so long. The Capitd D was of course much faster than the gigantic planetoid; and the actual difference inspeed between the two intergalactic flyers was much greater than the rat one because DuQuesne was driving with all his engines at absolute max -- risking burn-out, tear-out, and unavoidable collision at or near the frightful velocity of turnover -- which Seaton of course was not doing. He didn't want to endanger the Valeron, In the target galaxy -- Galaxy DW-#-LU, according to Klazmon's chart -- there was only one solar system showing really intense sixth-order activity. Almost all of that activity would be occurring on one planet; a planet whose inhabitants were highly inimical to (probably) all other forms of intelligent life. Klazmon's side-bands of thought had been very informative on those points. Thus it was by neither accident nor coincidence that DuQuesne came up to within long working range of the Skylark of Valeron well before that flying worldlet came within what DuQuesne thought was extreme range of a planet that DuIP Queme knew to be a ery dangerous planet indeed. He had wanted it that way; he had risked his ship and his life to make it come out that way. When the Valeron came within range of the target planet she would be DuQuesne's not Seaton's. And DuQuesne was calmly confident that he and a Valeron re-tuned to his own mind could cope with any possible situation. As a matter of fact, they couldn't. It was not, however, DuQuesne's error or fault that made it so; it was merely the way Fate's mop flopped. Neither he nor Seaton had any idea whatever of the appalling magnitude of the forces so soon to be hurled against Seaton's supposedly invulnerable flying fortress, the Skylark of Valeron, Operating strictly according to plan, then, DuQuesne called his goons to attention. "You've been briefed and you've had plenty of practise, but I'll recap the essential points. "Guns in hands. They'll be eating dinner, with their legs under the table. Sitting ducks for one shot. But for one shot only. Especially Seaton -- for an amateur he's fast. So work fast -- land and shoot. I'll give you the usual three-second countdown, beginning, now -- Seconds! Three! Two! One! Mark!" and the six men vanished. A nd in the dining room of the Seaton's home in the Skylark of Valeron six forty-five-caliber automatics barked viciously, practically as one. yi The CMorans W hile imich work had been done on a personal gravity control, to provide for the comfort of suck visitors as Dunark and Sitar, it .was still in the design stage when the Skylark of Valeron neared Galaxy DW-#-LU. Wherefore, when the Skylarkers sat down to dinner that evening in the Seaton's dining room that room was almost forty per cent undergrav. And wherefore, when DuQuesne's six hired killers fired practically as one, all six bullets went harmlessly high. For, at low gravity, two facts of marksmanship -- unknown to or not considered by either DuQuesne or any of his men -- became dominant. First, a pistol expert compensates automatically for the weight of his weapon. Second, the more expert the marksman, the more automatie this compensation is. And one shot each was all those would-be killers had. Dunark and Sitar as has been said, went armed even to bed; and Osnomian reflexes were and are the fastest possessed by any known race of man. Each of their machine pistols clicked twice and four American hoodlums died, liquescent brains and comminuted Skulls spattering abroad, before they could do anything mors than begin to bring their guns bad down into line for their second shots. The other two gangsters also died; if not as quickly or as messily, just as dead. For Shiro and his bride were, for Earthmen, very fast in#f deed Their chairs, too, flew away from the table the merest instant after the invaders appeared and both took off in low, flat dives. Lotus struck her man with her left shoulder; and, using flawlessly the momentum of her mass and speed, swung him around and put her small but very hard knee exactly where it would do the most good. Then, as he doubled over in agony, she put her left arm around his head, seized her left wrist with her right hand, and twisted with all the strength of arms, shoulders, torso and legs -- and the man's neck broke with a snap audible throughout the room. And Shiro took care of his man with equal dexterity, precision, and speed; and of the invaders, then there were none. Seaton was a miosecond slower than either the Osnomians or the two Japanese; but he was fast enough to see what was happening, take in the fact that the forces already engaged were enough to handle the six hoodlums and, in midflight, divert his leap toward the remote-control headset. He was blindingly certain of one thing: It was Marc DuQuesne who had unleashed these killers on them. And he was equally certain of that fact's consequence: The truce was off. DuQuesne was to be destroyed. Wherefore what happened next astonished him even more than if it had occurred at another time. A strident roar of klaxons filled the room. It was the loudest sound any human had ever heard -- without permanent damage; it was calculated to come right up to the threshold of destruction. There was to be no chance that anyone would fail to hear this particular signal. His hand on the headset, Seaton paused. The bodies of the six gunmen had not yet all reached the floor, but the other Skylarkers were staring too. They had never expected to hear that sound except in test. It was the dire warning that they were under attack -- massive attack -- attack on a scale and of a persistence that they had never expected to encounter in real combat, with whatever forces. For that klaxon warning meant that under the fierce impact of the enemy weapons now so suddenly and mercilessly beating down on them the life of the Valeron's defensive screens was to be measured only in seconds -- and very few of them! wmam Fastest-Growing New Science-Fiction Magazine! Don't mail the coupon -- if you want to keep the magazine intact -- just Order on a plain sheet of paper -- but, however you do it, rush in your that readers call "the best thing that's happened to science fiction in a dozen years" -- the magazine that has already brought you great novels by Arthur C. Clarke and Philip K. Dick -- novelettes and complete short novels by Murray Leinster, Keith Laumer, J. T. McIntosh and a dozen other favorite writers, etc. Every issue is new... exciting... enjoyable! Don't wait -- subscribe today! You can order them separately at # each postpaid -- OR -- list issues desired below and we will ship them at once and deuct that number from your subscription. #I Hudson Street, New York, N. Y. # I at your special price of only #. I enclose payment herewith. My subscription is I new,  renewal. Name  Address I City Zip Code State I lf you want back issues, check attached box. One subscription issue will be subtracted for each back issue  you order. Send rr le back Issues as follows: "'##,  :##, n##. '##, .##, ##, n##. ##, n#ii. #i#. J Offer void after Dec. #, # its vividly real telepathic socie, detailed so ingeniously and dra madcallv that, finisUng the booK, you'll find it hard to believe that society doesn't exist -- yet ! regular price, plus # for postage and handling. Supplies are limited ! Send your order in immediately I (Use Coupon or Separate Sheet) Pleas #I Hudson St. rush me New York  copies of #, Nome Address City State I Enclose The Originol Edition -- Complotol Not A Low Cost Roprint -- Yet Yours For Only #I Plus Postage #  Continuing the most famous science-fiction saga of all time --  by Edward E. Smith, Ph.D. Retief defies the mightiest warriors of the galaxy! Worlds of liriis yni the finest in science fiction Don'tsend in your subscription order today of IF delivered to your door, bringing you stories by all your favorites in science fiction! His celebrated Retief stories and others appear regularh in IF -- fast-moving, comic yarns of diplomatic skullduggery out on the frontiers of the stars! still to come! And now -- The Best of the Top Name Writers -- Robert A. Heinlein, Gordon R. Dickson, John Brunner, Hal  Clement, Lester del Rey contribute to F. -- and a Preview of Tomorrow's Best fach issue of IF brings you a brand-new writer, making his debut in science fiction in IF. Use this order blank or order by letter -- but don't delay! IF -- Subscription Department #I Hudson Street, New York, N. Y.  # Yes, send me the next # issues of IF! I enclose #  New  Renewal Name Address City State Zip No (Outside of N. and S. America add # for postage) Offer void after Dec, #, # Vol. #, No. # issue # Frederik Pohl, Editor David Perton, Production Mgr. Robert M. Guinn, Publisher Diana Sullivan, Associate Editor Mavis Fisher, Subs. Mgr. IF published monthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation Robert M. Guinn, President, Vol. #, No. #. Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York #, New York. #c per copy. Subscriptions # issues # in the United States, Canada, Mexico, South America and Central America and U.S. possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. Ail rights, including translations reserved. All material submitted must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelope. The any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in the U. S. A. by the Guinn Company, New York #, N. Y. IF  Editorial T here was a time when we thought we would get Skylark DuQuesne into three installments. Doc Smith, though, is a man who thinks on a huge scale. Kiloparsecs are only short jaunts for the Skylarkers, and kilowords are just enough room to get started in for the stories of their adventures. We gave up the three-installment idea early. Then we were pretty sure weM be able to do it in four. But other stories kept coming in. A long one by Van Vogt and Schmitz that we wanted to bring you right away; shorter ones by a half dozen other writers; the regular features... anyway, we found ourselves out of room. So this third installment of Skylark DuQuesne isnt the last. Neither is next month's fourth installment. It will take five in all, eoncluding in our October issue. (Positively!) This was frankly a little embarrassing to us, and it caused us to do a lot of thinking and reappraising of some things we had been taking for granted about our production procedures. In fact, it started in train a pretty complex series of events... but, we think you will agree, one with a happy ending. You see, when you come right down to it, a hundred and thirty-two pages isn't really enough space for a magazine like If, We do what we can, of course. We managed to get more words into If than you'll find in nearly any other magazine of its size -- by using a more compact type, by running very little advertising matter, by a variety of stratagems. Still and all, we've always felt a little cramped. This has made an editorial problem that we've never been quite confident of solving. It's a classic dilemma. On the one hand, we think a magazine should have a variety of stories in it -- and you can't have a variety unless you print at least half a dozen stories, preferably more than that. On the other hand it seems to be the nature of the beast tnat the longer sf stories are usually more fun to read than the short ones. (Oh, sure, there are honorable exceptions. But just for fun, make your own list of the twenty best science-fiction stories you've ever read. See how many run novelette length or longer.) This problem has been with us for years -- relieved a little bit when we changed format, because the new type meant a little extra wordage; relieved again when we went monthly, because that made it easier to use serials -- but still a problem. However, we think we've licked it now. Starting next month, there will be thirty-two more pages in If, Enough to run about two extra novelettes -- or four or five short stories -- or . an additional complete short novel -- or an extra installment Kf a serial. That is in addition to what weVe been running all along, of course -- so that if a typical issue has contained six or seven stories, about half of them novelettes or serial installments or other long pieces, the issue from now on will contain all of those things plus what we can get into the thirtytwo extra pages. One of the minor side-effects, for instance, will probablybe that Hue  Cry will show up in every issue, instead of being squeezed out from time to time when the story pressure gets too heavy. But the principal effect will be that we will have room to give you more stories in each issue -- which we think will mean a better balance of stories. Now, this is all stop-press news, as this editorial is written. In fact, the decision was made just # hours ago, and we spent all day yesterday redesigning our September cover, titles and so on to make it all possible. (Onee the publisher gave us the go-ahead we didn't want to waste any time putting it into effect!) Some things we didn't have time to do. For example, for one reason and another it was impossible to reschedule Doc Smith's Skylark any more, so it will still run to five parts, concluding in October. But we did have time to send out a Qouple of additional novelettes -- stories that you would have had to wait at least another month for otherwise; and probably, for makeup reasons, considerably longer than that. And, oh, yes, one thing more. The more case-hardened and frequently shot-over among our readers are already rattling coins in their pockets, thinking grim thoughts about inflation and rising prices, and wondering just what all this is leading up to. Increasing the price to a dollar a copy, maybe? Matter of fact, we aren't increasing it at all. # more pages... which means adding # to the body of the magazine and actually somewhat more than that to its story contents... and the price stays right where it is. Now, theres a fantastic story for you! But it's true. Pick up a copy next month and see for yourself. ger If will mean we'll have to be buying a couple hundred thousand extra words every year, so this is as good a time as any to mention again that we are permanently on the lookout for good new stories and good new writers. As you old-timers know, for several years now we have been publishing at least one "First" story in each issue -- by a writer never previously published. It isn't a contest. The stories are bought at our regular rates, and more than one an issue if we get enough good ones. The only "rules" are those that apply to writing stories for any magazine anywhere: Stories must be original; they must be typed, double-spaced on white paper; they must come with stamped, self-addressed return envelope... and they must be good enough to publish! (All you have to worry about is competing with Robert A. Heinlein, A. E. Van Vogt, Hal Clement, Keith Laumer, Poul Anderson, Edward E. Smith, Fritz Leiber and a few others like that. But -- after all, that's exactly how i The conquering Krultch had little to fear from Retief's outcast band of mountebanks -- so, fearlessly, they lost their empire! A large green-yolked egg splattered across the flexglas panel as it slammed behind Relief. Across the long, narrow lobby, under room clerk looked up, then came quickly around the counter, longdied, short-legged, an expression as of one detecting a bad odor on his flattened, leathery-looking face. He spread six of the eight arms attached to his narrow shoulders like a set of measuring spoons, twitching the other two in a cramped shrug. "The hotel, he is fill!" he wheezed. "To some other house you convey your custom, yes?" "Stand fast," Relief said to the foqr Terrans who had preceded him through the door. "Hello, Strupp," he nodded to the agitated clerk. "These are friends of mine. See if you can't find them a room." "As I comment but now, the rooms, he is occupy!" Strupp pointed to the door, "Kindly facilities provide by management to place selves back outside use!" A narrow panel behind the registration desk popped open; a second Gaspierre slid tlu-ough, took in the situation, emitted a sharp hiss. Strupp whirled, his arms semaphoring an unreadable message. "Never mind that, Strupp," the newcomer snapped in accentless Terran. He took out a strip of patterned cloth, mopped under the breathing orifices set in the sides of his neck, looked at the group of Terrans, and then back at Relief. "Ah, something I can do for you, Mr. Relief?" "Evening, Hrooze," Relief said. "Permit me to introduce Mr. Julius Mulvihill, Miss Suzette La Flamme, just in from cut-system. There seems to be a room shortage in town. I thought perhaps you could accommodate them." H rooze eyed the door through which the Terrans had entered, twitched his nictating eyelids in a nervous gesture. "You know the situation here. Relief!" he said. "I have nothing against Terries personally, of course, but if I rent to these people -- " "I was thinking you might fix them up with free rooms, just as a sort of good-will gesture." "If we these Terries to the RitzKrudlu admit, the repercussions political out of business us will put!" Strupp expostulated. "The next ship out is two days from now," Relief said. "They need a place to stay until then." Hrooze looked at Relief, mopped his neck again. "I owe you a favor, Relief," he said. "Two days, though, that's all!" "But -- " Strupp began. "Silence!" Hrooze sneezed. "Put them in twelve-oh-three and four!' He drew Relief aside as a small bell-hop in a brass-studded harness began loading baggage on his back. "How does it look?" he inquired. "Any hope of getting that squadron of Peace Enforcers to stand by outsystem?" "I'm afraid not; Sector HQ seems to feel that might be interpreted by the Krultch as a ' war-like gesture." IF "Certainly it would! That's exactly what the Krultch can understand -- " "Ambassador Sheepshorn has great faith in the power of words," Retief said soothingly. "He has a reputation as a great verbal karate expert; the Genghis Khan of the conference table." "But what if you lose? The cabinet votes on the Krultch treaty tomorrow! If it's signed, Gaspierre will be nothing but a fueling station for the Krultch battle fleet! And you Terries will end up slaves!" "A sad end for a great oral athlete," Retief said. "Let's hope he's in good form tomorrow." I n the shabby room on the twelfth level, Retief tossed a thick plastic coin to the baggage slave, who departed emitting the thin squeaking that substituted in his species for a jaunty whistle. Mulvihill, a huge man with a handlebar mustache, looked around, plumped his vast, bulging suitcase to the thin carpet, and mopped at the purple-fruit stain across his red plastiweve jacket. "I'd like to get my hands on the Gasper (hat threw that," he growled in a bullfrog voice. "That's a mean crowd out there," said Miss La Flamme, a shapely redhead with a tattoo on her left biceps. "It was sure a break for us the Ambassador changed his mind about helping us out. From the look the old sourpuss gave me when I kind of bumped up against him, I figured he had ground glass where his red corpuscles ought to be." "I got a sneaking hunch Mr. Retief swung this deal on his own, Suzie," the big man said. "The Ambassador's got bigger things on his mind than out-of-work variety acts." "This is the first time the Marvelous Merivales have ever been flat out of luck on tour," commented a whiskery little man . no more than three feet tall, dressed in an oldfashioned frock coat and a checkered vest, in a voice like the yap of a Pekinese. "How come we got to get mixed up in politics?" said. "It's not Mr. Retief s fault wc came here." "Yeah," the midget conceded. "I it kind of rough too, trying to pry the Gaspers outa the Kniltch's hip 'pocket. Boy, I wisti I could see the show tomorrow when the Terry Ambassador and the Krultch brass slug it out to see whose side the Gaspers'll be neutral on." "Neutral, ha!" the tall, cadaverous individual looming behind Wee Willie snorted. "I caught a glimpse of that ferocious war vessel at the port, openly flying the Krultch battleflag! It's an open breach of interworld custom -- " "Hey, Professor, leave the speech"Without free use of Gaspierre ports, the Krultch plans for expansion through the Gloob cluster would come to naught. A firm stand -- " "Might get 'em blasted right off the planet," the big man growled. "The Krultch play for keeps." "And the Gaspers aim to be on the winning side," the midget piped. "And all the smart money is on the Krultch battle wagon to put up the best argument." "Terries are fair game around here, it looks like, Mr. Retief," Mulvihill said. "You better watch yourself going back." Retief nodded. "Stay close to your rooms; if the vote goes against us tomorrow, we may all be looking for a quick way home." II O utside on the narrow elevated walkway that linked the gray slab-like structures of the city, thinfeatured Gaspierre natives shot wary looks at Retief, some skirting him wiJely, others jostling him as they crowded past. It was a short walk to the building where the Terrestrial delegation occupied a suite. As Retief neared it, a pair of Krultch sailors emerged from a shop, turned in his direction. They were shortcoupled centauroid quadrupeds, with deep, narrow chests, snouted faces with businesslike jaws and fringe beards, dressed in the red-striped livery of the Krultch Navy, complete with side-arms and short swagger sticks. Retief altered course to the right to give thm passing room; they saw him, nudged each other, and spaced themselves to block the walk. Retief came on without slowing, started between them. The Krultch closed ranks. Retief stepped back started around the sailor on the left. The creature sidled, still blocking his path. "Oh-hoh, Terry loose in street," he said in a vHce like sand in a gear-box. "You lost, Terry?" The other Krultch crowded Retief against the rail. "Where you from, Terry? What you do -- ?" Without warning, Retief slammed a solid kick to the shin of the Krultch before him, simultaneously wrenched the stick from the alien's grip, cracked it down sharply across the wrist of the other sailor as he went for his gun. The weapon clattered, skidded off the walk and was gone. The one whom Retief had kicked was hopping on three legs, making muffled sounds of agony. Retief stepped quickly to him, jerked his gun from its holster, aimed it negligently at the other Krultch. "Better get your buddy back to the ship and have that leg looked at," he said. "I think I broke it." A ring of gaping Gaspierre had gathered, choking the walk. Retief thrust the pistol into his pocket, turned his back on the Krultch, pushed through the locals. A large course-hided Gaspierre policeman made as if to block his way; Retief rammed an elbow in his side, chopped him across the side of the neck as he doubled up, thrust him aside and kept going. A mutter was rising from the crowd behind him. T he Embassy was just ahead now. Retief turned off toward the entry; two yellow-uniformed Gaspierre moved into sight under the marquee, eyed him as he came up. "Terran, have you not heard of IF Ifac curfew?" one demanded in shrill but accurate Terran. "Can't say that I have," Retief replied. "There wasn't any, an hour go." "There is now!" the other snapped. "You Terries are not popular here. If you insist in uaming the populace by walking abroad, we cannot be responsible for your safety -- " he broke off as he saw the Krultch pistol protruding from Retiefs pocket. "Where did you get that?" he demanded in Gaspierran, then switched to pidgin Terran: "Where you-fella catch um bang-bang?" "A couple of lads were playing with it in the street," Retief said in the local dialect. "I took it away from them before someone got hurt." He started past them. "Hold on there," the policeman snapped, "We're not finished with you yet, fellow. We'll tell you when you can go. Now..." He folded his upper elbows. "You're to go to your quarters at once. In view of the tense interplanetary situation, you Terries are to remain inside until further notice. I have my men posted on all approaches to, ah, provide protection." "You're putting a diplomatic mission under arrest?" Retief inquired mild-ly. "I wouldn't call it that. Let's just say that it wouldn't be safe for foreigners to venture abroad. ' "Threats too?" "This measure is necessary in order to prevent unfortunate incidents!" "How about the Krultch? They're foreigners; are you locking them in their bedrooms?" "The Krultch are old and valued friends of the Gaspierre," the police captain said stiffly. "We -- " "I know; ever since they set an armed patrol just outside Gaspierran atmosphere, you've, devdoped a vast affection for them. Oi course, their purchasing missions help too." T he captain smirked. "We Gaspierre are nothing if not practical." He held out his claw-like two-fingered hand. "You will now give me the weapon." Retief handed it over silently. "Come; I will escort you to your room," the cop said. Retief nodded complacently, followed the Gaspierre through the entry cubicle and into the lift. "I'm glad you've decided to be reasonable," the cop said. "After all, if you Terries should convince the cabinet, it will be much nicer all around if there have been no incidents." "How true," Retief murmured. He left the car at the #th floor. "Don't forget, now," the cop said, watching Retief key his door. "Just stay inside and all will yet be well." He signalled to a policeman standing a few yards , along the corridor. "Keep an eye on the door, Klosta." Inside, Retief picked up the phone, dialed the Ambassador's room number. There was a dry buzz, no answer. He looked around the room. There was a tall, narrow window set in the wall opposite the door with a hinged section that swung outward. Retief opened it, leaned out, looked down at the dizzying stretch of blank facade that dropped sheer to the upper walkway seventy yards below. Above, the wall extended up twenty feet to an overhanging cornice. He went to the closet, yanked a blanket from the shelf, ripped it in four wide strips, knotted them together, and tied one end to a chair which he braced below the window. Retief swung his legs outside the window, grasped the blanket-rope, and slid down. The window at the next level was closed and shuttered. Retief braced himself on the sill, delivered a sharp kick to the panel; it shattered with an explosive sound. He dropped lower, reached through, released the catch, pulled the window wide, knocked the shutter aside, and scrambled through into a darkened room. "Who's there?" a sharp voice barked. A tall, lean man in a ruffled shirt with an unknotted string tie hanging down the front gaped at Retief from the inner room. "Retief! How did you get here? I understood that none of the staff were to be permitted -- that is, I agreed that protective custody -- er, it seems..." # #'"The whole staff is bottled up A here in the building. Mr. Ambassador. I'd guess tbc mean to keep us here until after the Cabinet meeting. It appears the Krultch have the fix in." "Nonsense! I have a firm commitment from the Minister that no final commitment will be made until we've been heard -- " "Meanwhile, we're under house arrest -- just to be sure we don't have an opportunity to bring any of the cabinet around to our side." "Are you suggesting that I've permitted illegal measures to be taken without a protest?" Ambassador Sheepshorn fixed Retief with a piercing gaze which wilted, and slid aside. "The place was alive with armed gendarmes," he sighed. "What could I do?" "A few shrill cries of outrage might have helped," Retief pointed out. "It's not too late. A fast visit to the Foreign Office -- " "Are you out of your mind? Have you observed the temper of the populace? We'd be torn to shreds!" Retief nodded. "Quite possibly; but what do you think our chances are tomorrow, after the Gaspierre conclude a treaty with the Krultch?" Sheepshorn made two tries, then swallowed hard. "Surely, Retief, you don't -- " "I'm afraid I do," Retief said. "The Krultch need a vivid symbol of their importance -- and they'd also like to involve the Gaspierre in their skulduggery, just to insure their loyalty. Packing a clutch oi Terry diplomats off to the ice mines would do both jobs." "A great pity," the Ambassador sighed. "And only nine months to go till my retirement." "I'll have to be going now," Retief said. "There may be a posse of annoyed police along at any moIF ment, and I'd hate to make it too easy for them." "Police? You mean they're not even waiting until after the Cabinet's decision?" "Oh, this is just a personal matter; I damaged some Krultch Naval property and gave a Gaspierre cop a pain in the neck." "I've warned you about your personality, Retief," Sheepshorn admonished. "I suggest you give yourself up, and ask for clemency; with luck, you'll get to go along to the mines with the rest of us. I'll personally put in a good word!" "That would interfere with my plans. I'm afraid," Retief said. He went to the door. "I'll try to be back before the Gaspierre do anything irrevocable. Meanwhile, hold the fort here. If they come for you, quote regulations at them; I'm sure they'll find that discouraging." "Plans? Retief, I positively forbid you to -- " Retief stepped through the door and closed it behind him, cutting off the flow of Ambassadorial wisdom. A flat policeman, posted a few feet along the corridor came to the alert. "All right, you can go home now," Retief said, in brisk Gaspierran. "The chief changed his mind; he decided violating a Terran Embassy's quarters was just asking for trouble. After all, the Krultch haven't won yet." The cop stared at him, then nodded. "I wondered if this wasn't kind of getting the rickshaw before the coolie..." he hesitated. "But what do you know about it?" "I just had a nice chat with the captain, one floor up." "Well, if he let you come down here, I guess it's all right." "If you hurry, you can make it back to the barracks before the evening rush begins." Retief waved airily and strolled away along the corridor. ni B ack at ground level, Retief went along a narrow service passage leading to the rear of the building, stepped out into a desertedlooking courtyard. There was another door across the way. He went to it, followed another hall to a street exit. There were no cops in sight. He took the sparsely peopled lower walkway, set off at a brisk walk. Ten minutes later, Retief surveyed the approaches to the Hostelry Ritz-Krudlu from the shelter of an inter-level connecting stair. There was a surging crowd of Gaspierre blocking the walkway, with a scattering of yellow police uniforms patrolling the edge of the mob. flattened heads. Off to one side, a heavily braided Krultch officer stood with a pair of age-tarnished locals, looking on approvingly. Retief retraced his steps to the debris-littered ground level twenty feet below the walkway, found an eighteen-inch wide airspace leading back between buildings. He inched along it, came to a door, found it locked. Four doors later, a latch "Retief. Open up before the yielded to his touch. house dick spots me." He stepped inside, made out the Bolts clattered and the door dim outlines of an empty storage swung wide; Julius Mulvihill's musroom. The door across the room tached face appeared; he seized was locked. Retief stepped back. Relief's hand and pumped it. slammed a kick against it at latch "Gripes, Mr. Relief, we were level; it bounced wide. worried about you. Right after you After a moment's wait for the left, old Hrooze called up here and sound of an alarm which failed to said there was a riot starting up!" materialize, Retief moved off along "Nothing serious; just a few enthe passage, found a rubbish-heaped thusiasts out front putting on a stair. He clambered over the debris, show for the Krultch." chirped, coming in from the next A t the twelfth level, he emerged room with lather on his chin. "They into the corridor. There was throwing us out already?" no one in sight. He went quickly "No, you'll be safe enough right along to the door numbered #, here. But I need your help." tapped lightly. There was a faint The big man nodded, flexed his sound from inside; then a bass voice hands. ! u :ib!ed, "Who's there?" Suzette La Flamme thrust a drink o. IF into Reliefs hand. "Sit down and tell us about it." "Glad you came to us, Relief," Relief took the offered chair, sampled the drink, then outlined the situation. "What I have tn mind could be dangerous," he finished. "It calls for a delicate touch and some fancy footwork," Relief added. The professor cleared his throat. "I am not without a certain dexterity -- " he started. "Let him finish," the redhead said. "And I'm not even sure ifs possible," Relief stated. The big man looked at the others. "There's a lot of things that look impossible -- but the Marvelous Merivales do 'em anyway. That's what's made our act a wow on a hundred and twelve planets." The girl tossed her red hair. "The way it looks, Mr. Relief, if somebody doesn't do something, by this time tomorrow this is going to be mighty unhealthy territory for Terries." "The ones the mob don't get will be chained to an oar in a Krultch "With the Mission pinned down in their quarters, the initiative appears to rest with us," Professor Fate intoned. The others nodded. "If you're all agreed then," Relief said, "here's what I have in mind... T he corridor was empty when Relief emerged, followed by the four Terrans. "How are we going to get out past that crowd out front?" Mulvihill inquired. "I've got a feeling they're ready for something stronger than slogans." "We'll try the back way." There was a sudden hubbub from the far end of the corridor; half a dozen Gaspierre burst into view, puffing hard from a fast climb. They hissed, pointed, and started for the Terrans at a short-legged trot. At the same moment, a door flew wide at the opposite end of the hallway; more locals popped into view, closed in. "Looks like a neck-tie party," Wee He put his head down and charged. The on-coming natives slowed, skipped aside. One, a trifle slow, bounced against the wall as the midget rammed him at knee level. The others whirled, grabbing at Wee vihill roared, took three giant steps, caught two Gaspierre by the backs of their leathery necks, lifted them and tossed them aside. The second group of locals, emitting wheezes of excitement, dashed up, eager for the fray. Retief met one with a straight right, knocked two more aside with a sweep of his arm, sprinted for the door through which th# second party of locals had appeared. He looked back to see Mulvihill toss another Gaspierre melee. "Down here, Julie!" The girl called. "Come on. Professor!" The tall, lean Terran, backed against the wall by three hissing locals, stretched out a yard-long aim, flapped his hand. A large white pigeon appeared, fluttered, squawking and snorting. Professor Fate plunged through them, grabbed the bird by the legs as he passed, dashed for the door where Retief and the girl waited. There was a sound of pounding feet from the stairwell; a fresh contingent of locals came charging into view on stub legs. Retief took two steps, caught the leader full in the face with a spread hand, sent him among his followers, as Mulvishoulder yelling and kicking. "There's more on the way," Retief called. "We'll have to go up." The girl nodded, started up, thne steps at a time. Mulvihill dropped the midget, who scampered after her. Professor Fate tucked his bird away, disappeared up the stairs in giant strides, Mulvihill and Retief behind him. O n the roof, Retief slammed the heavy door, shot the massive bolt. It was late evening now; cool blue air flowed across the unrailed  deck; faint crowd-sounds floated up from the street twenty stories below. door," Mulvihill commanded. He went to the edge of the roof, looked down, shook his head, started across toward another side. The redhead called to him. "Over here, Julie..." Retief joined Mulvihill at her side. A dozen feet down and twenty feet distant across a narrow street was the slanted roof of an adjacent building. A long ladder was clamped to brackets near the ridge. "Looks like that's it," Mulvihill nodded. Suzette unlimbered a coil of light line from a clip at her waist, gauged the distance to a projecting ventilator intake, swung the rope, and let it fly. The broad loop spread, slapped the opposite roof, and encircled the target. With a tug, the girl tightened the noose, quickly whipped the end around a four-inch stack. She stooped, pulled off her shoes, tucked them in her belt, tried the taut rope with one foot. "Take it easy, baby," Mulvihill muttered. She nodded, stepped out on the taut, down-slanting cable, braced her feet, spread her arms, and in one smooth swoop, slid along the line and stepped off the far end, turned and executed a quick curtsey. "This is no time to ham it up," Mulvihill boomed. "Just habit," the girl said. She went up the roof, freed the ladder, rdeased the catch that caused an extensible section to slide out, then came back to the roofs edge, deftly raised, the ladder to a vertical position. "Catch!" she let it lean toward Mulvihill and Retief; as it fell both men caught it, lowered it the last foot. can't get this thing locked!" "Never mind that now," Mulvihill rumbled. "Come on, Prof," he said to the lean prestidigitator. "You first." The professor's Adam's apple bobbed as he swallowed. He peered down at the street far below, then threw his shoulders back, clambered up onto the ladder, and started across on all fours. "Don't look down Professor," Suzie called. "Look at me." over his shoulder. He freed the rope, tossed it across, then stepped up on the ladder, started across, one small step at a time. "This isn't my strong suit," he muttered, teeth together. The Professor had reached the far side. Mulvihill was half way. There was a sudden yelp from Willie. Retief turned. The midget was struggling against a door which was being forced open from inside. # T Tey!" Mulvihill boomed. Suzie squealed. Retief sprinted for the embattled midget, caught him as he was hurled backward as the door flew open, disgorging three Gaspierre who staggered for balance, and went down as Retief thrust out a foot. He thrust Wee native, pitched him back inside, followed with the other two, then slammed the door, and tried the bolt. "It's sprung," he said. "Let's go, ran for the ladder where Mulvihill still stood, halfway across. "Come on, Julie!" The girl cried, "It won't hold both of you!" There were renewed breathy yells from the site of the scuffle. The door had burst open and more Gashill snorted, finished the crossing in two jumps, scrambled for footing on the slanting roof. Retief stepped out on the limber ladder, started across, 'Took out!" Suzette said sharply. The rungs jumped under Retiefs feet. He reached the roof, dropped the midget, and turned to see a huddle of Gaspierre tugging at the ladder. One rendered reckless in his zeal, started across. Retief picked up the end of the ladder, shook it; tile local squeaked, scrambled back. Retief hauled the ladder in. "Up here," the girl called. Retief went up the slope, looked down at an open trap door in the opposite slope. He followed the others down tiirough it into a musty loft, latched it behind him. The loft door opened into an empty hall. They followed k, found a lift, rode it down to ground level. Outside in a littered alley, the crowd noises were faint. "We appear to have outfoxed the ruffians," Professor Fate said, adjusting his cuffs. "The Gaspers ain't far behind," tracks." "We'll find a spot and hide out until dark," Retief said. "Then we'll make our try." IV A faint gleam from Gaspierre's three bright-star-sized moons dimly illuminated the twisting alley along which Retief led the four Terrans. "The port is half a mile from the city wall," he said softly to Mulvihill at his side. "We can climb it between watchtowers, and circle around and hit the ramp from the east." "They got any guards posted out there?" the big man asked. "Oh-oh, here's the wall..." The barrier loomed up, twelve feet high. Suzette came forward, looked it over. "I'll check the top," she said. "Give me a boost, Julie." He lifted her, raised her to arm's length. She put a foot on the top of his head, stepped up. Mulvihill grunted. "Watch out some Gasper cop doesn't spot you." "Coast is clear." She pulled heryou a hand." Mulvihill lifted the midget, who caught the girl's hand, and scrambled up. Mulvihill bent over, and Retief stepped in his cupped hands, then to the big man's shoulders, and reached the top of the wall. The girl lowered her rope for Mulvihill. He clambered up, swearing softly, with Retief's help hoisted his bulk to the top of the wall. A moment later the group was moving off quietly across open ground toward the south edge of the port. Lying flat at the edge of the ramp, Retief indicated a looming, lightencrusted silhouette. "That's her," he said. "Half a "Big enough, ain't she?" Wee Willie chirped. "Hsst! There's a Krultch!" Mulvihill pointed. Retief got to his feet. "Wait until I get in position behind that fud IF monitor' He pointed to a dark shape crouching fifty feet distant. "Then make a few suspicious noises." "I better go with you, Retief," Mulvihill started, but Retief was gone. He moved forward silently, reached the shelter of the heavy apparatus, watched the Krultch sentinel move closer, stepping daintily as a deer on its four sharp hooves. The alien had reached a point a hundred feet distant when there was a sharp ping! from behind Retief. The guard halted; Retief heard the snick of a power gun's action. The Krultch turned toward him. He could hear the cli-clack, cli-clack of the hooves now. At a distance of ten feet, the quadruped slowed, came to a halt. Retief could see the vicious snout of the gun aimed warily into the darkness. There was another sound from Mulvihill's position. The guard plucked something from the belt rigged across his chest, and started toward the source of the sound. As he passed Retief he shied suddenly, and grabbed for his communicator. Redef leaped, landed a haymaker on die bony face, and caught the microphone before it hit the pavement. The Krultch, staggering back from the blow, went to his haunches and struck out with knife-edged forefeet. Retief ducked aside, chopped hard at the collar bone. The Krultch collapsed with a choked cry. Mulvihill appeared at a run, seized the feebly moving guard, pulled off the creature's belt, trussed his four legs together, and then, using other straps to bind the hands, he gagged the powerful jaws. "You gonna cut his throat?" "Shove him back of the monitor," Mulvihill said. "Now let's see how close we can get to the ship without getting spotted," Retief said. T he mighty Krultch war vessel, a black column towering into the night, was ablaze with varicolored running and navigation lights. Giant floods mounted far up on the ship's sleek sides cast puddles of blue-white radiance on the tarmac; from the main cabin amidships, softer light gleamed through wide view windows. "All lit up like a party," Mulvihill growled. "A tough party to crash," Wee slant of the hull. "I think I see a route, Mr. Retief," the girl said. "What's that little square opening up there, just past the gun emplacement?" "It looks as though it might be a cargo hatch. It's not so little. Miss La Flamme! it's a long way up -- " "You reckon I could get through it?" Retief nodded, looking up at the smooth surface above. "Can you make it up there?" "They used to bill me as the human lady-bug. Nothing to it." "If you get in," Retief said, "Try to find your way back down into the tube compartment. If you can open one of these access panels, we're in." Suzette nodded, took out her rope, tossed a loop over a projec# tion fifteen feet above, and clambered quickly up the landing jack to its junction with the smooth metal of the hull. She put her hands flat against the curving, slightly inslanting wall before her, planted one crepe-soled shoe against a tiny weld seam and started up the sheer wall. Ten minutes passed. From the deep shadow at the ship's stern, Retief watched as the slim girl inched her way up, skirting a row of orange glare panels spelling out the name of the vessel in blocky Krultch ideographs, taking advantage of a ventilator outlet for a minute's rest, then going on up, up, thirty feet now, forty, forty-five... She reached the open hatch raised her head cautiously for a glance inside, then swiftly pulled up and disappeared through the opening. Julius Mulvihill heaved a sigh of relief. "That was as tough a climb as Suzie ever made," he rumbled. piped up. "Her troubles is just starting." "I'm sure she'll encounter no difficulty," Professor Fate said anxiously. "Surely there'll be no one on duty aft, here in port." More minutes ticked past. Then there was a rasp of metal, a gentle clatter. A few feet above ground, a panel swung out: Suzie's face appeared, oil streaked. "Boy this place needs a good scrubbing," she breathed. "Come on; they're all having a shindig up above, sounds like." Inside the echoing, gloomy vault of the tub compartment, Retief studied the layout of equipment, the placement of giant cooling baffles, and the contour of the bulkheads. "This is a Krultch-built job," he said. "But it seems to be a pretty fair copy of an old Concordiat cruiser of the line. That means the controls are all the way forward." went to the wide-runged catwalk designed for goat-like Krultch feet, started up. The others followed. Retief glanced around, reached for the ladder. As he did, a harsh Krultch voice snapped, "Halt where you are, Terrans!" R etief turned slowly. A dirtsmeared Krultch in baggy coveralls stepped from the concealment of a massive ion-collector, a grim-looking power gun aimed. He waited as a second and third sailor followed him, all armed. "A nice catch, Udas," one said admiringly in Krultch. "The captain said we'd have Terry labor to do the dirty work on the run back, but I didn't expect to see 'em volunteering." "Get 'em down here together, Jesau," the first Krultch barked, ffli partner came forward, motioned with the gun. "Retief, you savvy Fustian?" Midvihill muttered. "Uh-huh," Retief answered. "You hit the one on the left; FH take the bird on the right. Professor -- " "Not yet," Retief said. "No talk!" the Krultch barked ia Terran. "Come downl" IF The Terrans descended to the deck, stood in a loose group. "Closer together!" the sailor said; he poked the girl with the gun to emphasize the command. She smiled at him sweetly. "You bat-eared son of a goat, just wait till I get a handful of your whiskers!" "No talk!" Professor Fate edged in front of the girl. He held out both hands toward the leading Kruitch, flipped them over to show both sides, then twitched his wrists, fanned two sets of playing cards. He waved them under the astounded nose of the nearest gunman, and with a flick they disappeared. The two rearmost sailors stepped closer, mouths opn. The professor snapped his fingers; flame shot from the tip of each pointed forefinger. The Krultch jumped. The tall Terran waved his hands, whipped a gauzy blue handkerchief from nowhere, swirled it around; now it was red. He snapped it sharply, and a shower of confetti scattered around the dumbfounded Krultch. He doubled his fists, popped them open; whoofed into the aliens' faces. A final wave, and a white bird was squawking in the air. "Now!" Retief said, and took a step, uppercut the leading sailor; die slender legs buckled as the creature went down with a slam. Mulvihill was past him, catching Krultch number two with a roundhouse swipe. The third sailor made a sound like tearing sheet metal, brought his hurtling forward, hit him at the knees. The shot melted a furrow in the wall as Mulvihill floored the hapless creature with a mighty Wow. "Neatly done," Professor Fate said, tucking things back into his cuffs. "Almost a pity to lose sucli an appreciative audience." W ith the three Krultch securely strapped hand and foot in their own harnesses, Retief nudged one with his foot. "We have important business to contract in the control room," he said. "We don't want to disturb anyone, Jesau, so we'd prefer a nice quiet approach via the back stairs. What would you suggest?" The Krultch made a suggestion. Retief said, "Professor, perhaps you'd better give him a few more samples." "Very well." Professor Fate stepped forward, waved his hands; a slimrbladed knife appeared in one. He tested the edge with his thumb, which promptly dripped gore. He stroked the thumb with another finger; the blood disappeared. He nodded. "Now, fellow," he said to the sailor. "I've heard you rascals place great store by your beards; what about a shave?" He reached -- The Krultch made a sound like glass shattering. "The port catwalk!" he squalled. "But you won't get away with this!" "Oh, no?" The professor smiled gently, made a pass in the air, plucked a small cylinder from nowhere. "I doubt if anyone will be along this way for many hours," he said. "If we fail to return safy in an hour, this little device will detonate with sufficient force to distribute your component atoms over approximately twelve square miles." He placed the object by the Krultch, who rolled horrified eyes at it. "Oh -- on second thought, try the service catwalk behind the main tube," he squeaked. "Good enough," Retief said. "Let's go." V T he sounds of Krultch revelry were loud in the cramped passage. "Sounds like they're doing a little early celebrating for tomorrow's big diplomatic victory," Mulvihill said. "You suppose most of them are in there?" "There'll be a few on duty," Retief said. "But that sounds like a couple of hundred out of circulation for the moment -- until we trip something and give the alarm." "The next stretch is all right," Professor Fate said, coming back dusting off his hands. "Then I'm afraid we shall have to emerge into the open." "We're not far from the command deck now," Retief said. "Another twenty feet, vertically, ought to do it." The party clambered on up, negotiated a sharp turn, came to an exit panel. Professor Fate put his ear against it. "All appears silent," he said. "Shall we sally forth?" Retief came to the panel, eased IF it open, glanced out; then he stepped through, motioned the others to follow. It was quieter here; there was deep-pile carpeting underfoot, an odor of alien food and drugsmoke in the air. "Officers' country," Mulvihill muttered. Retief pointed toward a door marked with Krultch lettering. "Anybody read that?" he whispered. There were shakes of the head and whispered negatives. "We'll have to take a chance." Retief went to the door, gripped the latch, and yanked it suddenly wide. An obese Krultch in uniform belt but without his tunic looked up from a brightly colored magazine on the pages of which Retief glimpsed glossy photos of slenderbuilt Krultch mares flirting saucy derrieres at the camera. The alien stuffed the magazine in a desk slot, came to his feet, gaping, than whirled and dived for a control panel across the narrow passage in which he was posted. He reached a heavy lever and hauled it down just as Retief caught him with a flying tackle. Man and Krultch hit the deck together; Relief's hand chopped; the Krultch kicked twice and lay still. "That lever -- you suppose -- " # # "probably an alarm," Retief A said, coming to his feet. "Come on!" he ran along the corridor; it turned sharply to the right. A heavy door was sliding shut before him. He leaped to it, wedged himself in the narrowing opening, braced against the thrust of the steel panel. It slowed, with a groaning of machinery. Mulvihill charged up, grasped the edge of the door and heaved. Somewhere, metal creaked. There was a loud clunkl and a clatter of broken mechanism. The door slid freely back. "Close," Mulvihill grunted. "For a minute there -- " he broke off at a sound from behind hirh. Ten feet back along the passage a second panel had slid noiselessly out, sealing off the corridor, Mulvihill jumped to it, heaved against it. Ahead, Retief saw a third panel, this one standing wide open. He plunged through it; skidded to a halt. A braided Krultch officer was waiting, a foot-long purple cigar in his mouth, a power gun in each hand. He kicked a lever near his foot. The door whooshed shut behind Retief. "Ah, welcome aboard, Terran," the captain grated. "You can be the first of your kind to enjoy Krultch hospitality." "I have been observing your progress on my inspection screen here," the captain nodded toward a small panel which showed a view of the four Terrans pushing fruitlessly against the doors that had closed to entrap them. "Interesting," Retief commented. "You are surprised at the sophistication of the equipment we Krultch can command?" the captain puffed out smoke, showed horny gums in a smile-like grimace. "No, anybody who can steal the price can buy a Groaci spy-eye system," Retief said blandly. "But I #S find it interesting that you had to spend all that cash just to keep an eye on your crew. Not too trustworthy, eh?" y "What? Any of my crew would die at my command!" "They'll probably get the chance, too," Retief nodded agreement. "How about putting one of the guns down -- unless you're afraid of a misfire." "Krultch guns never misfire." The captain tossed one pistol aside. "But I agree: I am overprotected against the paltry threat of a single Terran." "You're forgetting -- I have friends." T he Krultch made a sound like fingernails on a blackboard. "They are effectively immobilized," he said. "Now, tell me, what did you hope to accomplish by intruding here?" "I intend to place you under arrest," Retief said. "Mind if I sit down?" The Krultch captain made laughing noises resembling a flawed drive bearing; he waved a two-fingered claw-hand. "Make yourself comfortable -- while you can," he said. "Now, tell me, how did you manage to get your equipment up to my ship without being seen? I shall impale the slackers responsible, of course." "Oh, we have no equipment." Retief said breezily. He sniffed, "That's not a Lovenbroy cigar, is it?" "Never smoke anything else," the Krultch said. "Care for one?" "Don't mind if I do," Retief admitted. He accepted an eighteeninch stogie, lit up. "Now, about the equipment," the captain persisted. "I assume you used fifty-foot scaling ladders, though I confess I don't see how you got them onto the port -- " "Ladders?" Retief smiled comfortably. "We Terrans don't need ladders; we just sprouted wings." "Wings?" "Oh, we're versatile, we Terries." The captain was wearing an expression of black disapproval now. "If you had no ladders, I must conclude that you breached my hull at ground level," he snapped. "What did you use? It would require at least a fifty K-T-Second power input to penetrate two inches of flint-steel -- " Retief shook his head, puffing out scented smoke. "Nice," he said. "No, we just peeled back a panel barehanded. We Terrans -- " "Blast you Terrans! Nobody could." The captain clamped his jaws, puffed furiously. "Just outside, in the access-control chamber you sabotaged the closure mechanism. Where is the hydraulic jack you used for this?" "As I said, we Terrans -- " # #'#'ou entered the secret access I passage almost as soon as you boarded my vessel!" the captain screeched. "My men are innoculated against every talk-drug known! What did you use on the traitor who informed you!" Retief held up a hand. "We Terrans can be very persuasive, Captain. At this very moment, you IF yourself, for example, are about to be persuaded of the futility of trying to out-maneuver us." The Krultch commander's mouth opened and closed. "Me!" he burst out. "You think that you can divert a Krultch officer from the performance of his duty?" "Sure," a high voice piped from above and behind the captain. "Nothing to it." The Krultch's hooves clattered as he whirled, froze at the sight of smiling down at him from the ventilator register above the control panel. In a smooth motion, Retief cracked the alien across the wrist, and twitched the gun from his nerveless hand. "You see?" he said as the officer stared from him to the midget and back. "Never underestimate us Terrans." The captain drooped in his chair, mopping at his face with a polkadotted hanky provided by Wee Willie. "This interrogation is a gross illegality!" he groaned. "I was assvued that all your kind did was talk -- " "We're a tricky lot," Retief conceded. "But surely a little innocent deception can be excused, once you understand our natures. We love strife, and this seemed to be the easiest way to stir up some action." "Stir up action?" the Krultch croaked. "There's something about an apparently defenseless nincompoop that brings out the opportunist in people," Retief said. "It's a simple way for us to identify troublemakers, so they can be dealt with expeditiously. I think you Krultch qualify handsomely. It's convenient timing, because we have a number of new planet-wrecking devices we've been wanting to field-test." "You're bluffing!" the Krultch bleated. Retief nodded vigorously. "I have to warn you, but you don't have to believe me. So if you still want to try conclusions -- " T here was a sharp buzz from the panel; a piercing yellow light blinked rapidly. The captain's hand twitched as he eyed the phone. "Go ahead, answer it," Retief said. "But don't say anything that might annoy me. We Terrans have quick tempers." The Krultch flipped a key. "Exalted One," a rapid Krultch voice babbled from the panel. "We have been assassinated by captives! I mean, captivated by assassins! There were twelve of them -- or perhaps twenty! Some were as high as a hundred-year Fufu tree, and others smaller than hoof-nits! One had eyes of live coals, and flames ten feet long shot from his hands, melting all they touched, and another -- " "Silence!" the captain roared. "Who are you? Where are you? What in the name of the Twelve Devils is going on here!" He whirled on Retief. "Where are the rest of your commandos! How did they evade my surveillance system? What -- " "Ah-ah," Retief clucked. "I'm asking the questions now. First, I'll have the names of all Gaspierre officials who accepted your bribes." "You think I would betray my compatriots to death at your hands?" "Nothing like that; I just need to know who the cooperative ones are so I can make them better offers." A low brackk! sounded; this time a baleful blue light winked. The Krultch officer eyed it warily. "That's my outside hot line to the Foreign Office," he said. "When word reaches the Gaspierre government of the piratical behavior you allegedly peaceful Terries indulge in behind the facade of diplomacy -- " "Go ahead, tell them," Retief said. "It's time they discovered they aren't the only ones who understand the fine art of the triple-cross." The Krultch lifted the phone. "Yes?" he snapped. His expression stiffened. He rolled an eye at Re"What's that?" he barked into the communicator. "Flew through the air? Climbed where? What do you mean, giant white birds!" "Them Gaspers sure exaggerate!" The captain eyed the tiny man in horror, comparing his height with Retief's six-three. He shuddered. "I know," he said into the phone. "They're already here..." He dropped the instrument back on its hook, glanced at his panel, idlv reached -- it'That reminds me," Retief said. A He pointed the gun at the center of the captain's chest. "Order IF all hands to assemble amidships," he said. "They -- they're already there," the Krultch said unsteadily, his eyes fixed on the gun. "Just make sure." The captain depressed a key, cleared his throat. "All hands to the central feeding area, on the double," he said. There was a moment's pause. Then a Krultch voice came back: "All except the stand-by crews in power section and armaments, I guess you mean. Exalted One" "I said all hands, damn you!" the officer snarled. He flipped off the communicator. "I don't know what you think you'll accomplish with this," he barked. "I have three hundred fearless warriors aboard this vessel; you'll never get off this ship alive!" Two minutes passed. The communicator crackled. "All hands assembled, sir." lever?" Retief said mildly. "Just pull it down, and the next one to it." The captain made as if to move. past the Krultch, wrestled the controls down. Far away, machinery rumbled. A distinct shock ran through the massive hull, then a second. "The disaster bulkheads, sliding shut," Retief said. "The three hundred fearless warriors are nicely locked in between them." The captain slumped, looking stricken. "How do you know so much about the operation of my vessel?" he demanded. "It's classified..." "That's the result of stealing someone else's plans; the wrong people may have been studying the rest of the group in; then I think we'll be ready to discuss surrender terms." "This is a day that will live in the annals of treachery," the captain grated hollowly. "Oh, I don't think it needs to get into the annals," Retief said. "Not if we can come to a private understanding, just between gentlemen." VI I t was an hour past sunrise when the emergency meeting of the Gaspierre Cabinet broke up. Ambassador Sheepshorn, emerging from the chamber deep in amiable conversation with an uncomfortablelooking Krultch officer in elaborate full dress uniform, halted as he spied Retief. "Ah, there, my boy! I was a trifle concerned when you failed to return last evening; but, as I was just pointing out to the Captain here, it was really all just a dreadful misunderstanding. Once the Krultch position was made clear -- that they really preferred animal husbandry and folk dancing to any sort of war-like adventures, the Cabinet was able to come to a rapid and favorable decision on the Peace-andFriendship Treaty, giving Terrans full Most Favored Nation status." "I'm glad to hear that, Mr. Ambassador," Retief said, nodding to the stoney-faced Krultch commander. "I'm sure we'd all rather engage in friendly competition than have to demonstrate our negotiating ability any further." There was a stir at the end of the corridor; a harried-looking Krultch officer with a grimy Krultch yeoman in tow appeared, came up to the captain, and saluted. "Exalted One, this fellow has just escaped from some sort of magical paralysis." "It was that one," the sailor indicated Retief. "Him and the others." He looked reproachfully at Retief. "That was a dirty trick, telling us that was a bomb you were planting; we spend a rough night before we found out it was just a dopestick." "Sorry," Retief said. "Look, Exalted One," the sailor went on in a stage whisper. "What I wanted to warn you about, that Terry -- the long one, with the pointed tail and the fiery breath; he's a warlock; he waves his hands and giant white flying creatures appear -- " "Silence, idiot!" the captain bellowed. "Have you no powers of observation? They don't merely produce birds; any fool could do that They transform themselves! Now get out of my sight! I plan to enter a monastery as soon as we return home, and I want to get started on my meditating!" He nodded curtly and clattered away. #Cdd sort of chap," Sheepshorn commented. "I wonder what he was talking about?" "Just some sort of in-group joke. I imagine," Retief said. "By the way, about that group of distressed terrans I mentioned to you -- " "Yes. I may have been a bit abrupt with them, Retief; but of course I was busy planning my strategy for today's meeting. Perhaps I was hasty. I hereby authorize you to put in a good word for them." "I took the liberty of going a little farther than that," Retief said. "Since the new treaty calls for Terran cultural missions, I signed a six months contract with them to put on shows here on Gaspierre.' Sheepshorn frowned. "You went a bit beyond your authority, Retief," he snapped. "I'd thought we might bring in a nice group or two to read classic passages from the Congressional Record, or perform some of the new silent music; and I had half-way promised the Garoci Minister I'd have one of his nose-flute troupes -- " "I thought it might be a good idea to show Terr an solidarity, just at this juncture," Retief pointed out. "Then, too, a demonstration of sword-swallowing, prestidigitation, fire-eating, juggling, tight-rope walking, acrobatics and thaumaturgics might be just the ticket for dramatizing versatility." Sheepshorn considered with pursed lips, then nodded. "You may have a valuable point there, my boy; we Terrans are a. versatile breed. Speaking of which, I wish you'd been there to see my handling of the negotiation this morning! One moment I was all fire and truculence; the next, as smooth as Yill silk." IF say, Mr. Ambassador." "Yes, indeed," Sheepshorn rubbed his hands together, chuckling. "In a sense. Relief, diplomacy itself might be thought of as a branch of show business, eh? Thus, these performers might be considered colleagues of a sort." "True, but I wouldn't mention it when they're within earshot." "Yes, it might go to their heads. Well, I'm off, Retief. My report on this morning's work will become a classic study of Terran diplomatic subtlety." He hurried away. A Gaspierre with heavy bifocal lenses edged up to Retief. "I'm with the Gaspierre Morning Exhalation' he wheezed. "Is it true, sire, that you Terries can turn into fire-breathing dragons at will?" A second reporter closed in. "I heard you read minds," he said. "And about this ability to walk through walls -- " "Just a minute, boys," Retief held up a hand. "I wouldn't want to be quoted on this of course, but just between you and me, here's what actually happened, as soon as the Ambassador had looked into his IF  Short StOT Having two thousand inhabited planets to supervise, anybody might mislay one now and thenl F or such a racket to come from the anteroom on the far side of the door which bore the discreet rare enough for anyone to raise his voice at all here on Galrex -- its mile-square, mile-deep computerbanked halls made it the effective center of power for the entire Lens, and the sensation that history was looking over your shoulder inspired an awed hush. Right now, though, someone was actually shouting, so loudly that Superintendent Motice Bain could hear the words without activating his desk communicators. A man, almost hysterical, was crying out over and over. "But I must see him! Something must be done! The human race k in danger!" A crank? Frowning over the loofacile explanation -- for it woiikl take an incredibly persistent crank to get to the very peak of the Galrex hierarchy -- Bain switched on the TV pickups and inspected the scene beyond the door. Three harassed androids and a half-frantic human aide were trying to quiet a wildfaced man in clothing that suggested he might hail from one of the Bondageworlds: a rough brown shirt and a black kilt with knee-boots. But he had black hair all over the place, a brush-stiff beard and bushy eyebrows, whereas the Bondsmen usually shaved their entire bodies. The human race in danger, hrr Bain quirked up the corners of his thin-lipped mouth and raised the gain on the communicators to full. "What is it Ivor?" he demanded of the aide in the anteroom. T here was a moment of shocked silence. Ivor broke it with an accusing exclamation. "Now see what you've done! You've interrupted Super-Galrex!" "That's what I've been trying to do!" the bearded man bellowed, unrepentant. But this final stab of defiance was the most he could manage; one more second, and he had subsided into a frightened halfcringe, matching Ivor's own. "Well?" Bain rapped. "Sir, forgive the disturbance, but really we have done our best to prevent him..." Ivor hesitated, wiping his forehead with the back of a nervous hand. "He's a fanatic, sir, that's all. I've sent for a medic, and we'll get him to the hospital as quickly as we can." "I'm not crazy, damn it!" the bearded man exploded. "And here are the figures to prove it!" He reached to the hip pocket of his kilt and flourished a sheaf of documents under Ivor's nose. "But the computers say you're wrong," Ivor countered, and added to Bain, "I'm extremely sorry, sir, but he's got some notion in his head about the computers having been tampered with, to stop them giving the right answer to the problem he brought with him." "One second." Bain rubbed his chin, considering. "Ivor, am I to understand that this man has come all the way to Galrex especially to put a private problem?" "Yes, I have," the bearded man declared. "Hmmm... That makes you unusual, my friend. Star travel is expensive, to begin with, and the hire of Galrex computers isn't cheap either." "But your facilities are supposed to be public property," the bearded man snapped. "Anyone can use them if he wants!" "Granted, granted. In fact, though, planetary governments are our regular customers. There's nothing special about the computers here -- we simply have more of them than anyone else in the galaxy, because of the immense quantities of data we have to process." Out of the corner of his eye, Bain noted with hidden amusement Ivor's astonishment at seeing Super-Galrex make light conversation with an obvious fanatic. "So tell me why you needed to use our facilities, and not those available on any civilized planet, Mr. -- ?" "Falkirk," said the bearded man. The frenzy had gone out of him, to be replaced by exaggerated deference. Ivor was apparently much impressed by that fact, but Bain had small respect for his aide's ability to deal with human beings. He was good with computers, but he lacked insight. One glance should have told him that Falkirk was honestly angry, and therefore accessible to reason. "Go on," he invited. Falkirk took a deep breath. "I had to come here, sir, because nowhere else could I obtain all the information likely to be required in evaluating the solution. There are factors involved which cover nearly a dozen star-systems." "A personal problem of virtually galactic scope?" Bain measured humorous skepticism into his voice. Ivor pounced on this return to something like his chief's normal behaviour. "Yes, sir. You see, Falkirk has -- " "Shut up." Bain reached a quick decision. "Bring Falkirk in here. I can spare him two minutes to convince me he's not a crank, and twelve minutes more if he succeeds. Is that fair, Mr. Falkirk?" "Yes, sir!" said the bearded man, and dived for the door as it slid aside. t'This will give you an idea of A the scale of the thing I've stumbled on," he said as he perched gingerly on the edge of the chair facing Bain. He couldn't quite meet the piercing gaze of the Superintendent, but glanced at him sidelong, seeming to pay more attention to the artificial view of grassy meadows and far blue mountains projected on the outside of the window behind the desk. He handed over the top page from his sheaf of documents, and Bain scanned it as he put some further questions. It was nothing but a table of figures, as well known to him as his own name. "Are you from one of the Bondageworlds, Mr. Falkirk?" "No, sir. Don't be misled by these clothes. I had to hock my thermosuits on Fenris to make up the balance of the fare here." Approx, total of inhabited planets at present: #x#. "Your professional background? Clearly, you're an educated man, and you must have done moderately well in some highly skilled job to even consider bringing your problem here to Galrex." Approx, human population at present: # . I x #  #  "Yes, sir. By training I'm a cosmoarcheologist." Bain's nape prickled ever so faintly. He read on -- Approx, total of starships in service: #x#". "You're not a mathematician, then," he suggested. Falkirk bridled. "Sir, there's nothing wrong with the figures I've compiled, in spite of the fact that the computers here refused to give me a rational solution -- " Average number in crew of ship: #I . That was as far as Bain could be bothered to read. He pushed the table of figures across the slick surface of the desk, and it skidded several inches in Falkirk's direction. "Let me make an enlightened guess," he said. "You've noted the occurrence of an event against which the odds appear inconceivably large. You feel it ought to be investigated. Am I correct?" With unconcealed respect, Falkirk stared at him. "Exactly, sir. But this is no ordinary event in any case, regardless of the actual odds..." He nerved himself for the final plunge. "What would you say if you were told that the entire crew of one single interstellar ship had wound up IF in positions of fantastic power and influence within a few years of their simultaneous decision to retire from space?" "Interesting," was all Bain allowed himself to say. "Your two minutes are nearly up. Give me a few more details, and I'll decide whether you can have your extra time." "Among them are the Premier of Nokomis, the Autarch of Ling, the richest man on Quetzal, the chief priest of the state religion on Thummim -- " "An impressive roster!" Bain broke in. "Very well, Mr. Falkirk, ni concede your sincerity, if nothing more. Now, from the beginning and in full, if you please -- but stick to the point, because I am a very busy man." W e're so far from being the first intelligent inhabitants of the galaxy (Falkirk said) that there's no shortage of subjects for investigation by cosmoarcheologists, even making allowance for the fact that it's not a popular discipline, so funds for jobs like the study of relics on nonterrestrial planets are hard to come by. So you might think it silly of me to have decided right at the outset of my career that there was precisely one predecessor species I wanted to devote my life to: those who used to inhabit the world we call Gorgon. On the face of it, there wasn't anything so remarkable about those creatures. Physically they must have had a great deal in common with us, so the biologists aren't very interested, and they never achieved spaceflight, so the psychologists haw dismissed them as rather dull. What's more, their entire body of relics was concentrated on a small island in Gorgon's southern hemisphere, which argues that they were singularly unenterprising. On the Other hand, when I was still in school I ran across a story about them. I can't remember exactly where. But it fascinated me, even though it was no more than an illdocumented legend. According to the traditions, they'd developed as the final flowering of their culture a dynamic training technique whi(A would enable any remotely similar creature to get the optimum performance from its nervous system by bringing under conscious control the faculty we refer to as "luck". I don't know how this was supposed to be done -- possibly by developing an intuitive awareness of the most probable course of large-scale events. And this, allegedly, was the root of their eventual downfall : uniformly fortunate, they bored themselves into extinction. Since this must have happened at least several centuries before we discovered a stardrive, you'll ask how it is the legend got into circulation. Well, according to what I recall from this source -- I wish I could locate it again! -- the discoverer of Gorgon was one of the great pioneering starscouts, a man named Morgan Wade. Morgan -- Gorgon: you see he gave the planet a name which rhymed with his own. Sorry, I'm digressing. The point is, this scout was supposed to have found a key to the dead race's #S methods among the relics they'd left. Of course, this was in the early days of space exploration, three or four hundred years back, and finding alien remains wasn't the commonplace event it later became. So he spent several months investigating, and finally worked out the details of this training technique of theirs. Whereupon he went home and quit spacing for good. He turned his attention to the acquisition of wealth and power, and in a few years he'd become one of the richest and most important men alive. True, you might argue this was sheer chance -- a famous pioneering starscout, deciding to switch careers, would have a good deal in his favor to begin with; the prestige of his reputation, for example. Nonetheless, I'm certain there was more to it than shows on the surface, and here's why. It had always been my intention to devote myself to the definitive study of the Gorgon remains. During my early work in cosmoaoheology I saved as much as I possibly could from my salary, with the sole purpose of financing an independent expedition to Gorgon and settling this -- this myth that haunted me, once and for all. I was  extremely worried that I might not achieve my goal, because as you know Gorgon has been open for colonization for nearly half a century, and I had visions of some blockhead sitting a cement factory on top of the alien relics. So, as soon as I could afford it, I went out there to survey the ground and perhaps reserve the digging rights if I could find a helpful government official. What I found was so much worse than a mere cement factory I can hardly bring myself to think about it. About eight or nine years ago, a starship in distress broke from hyper and had to put down on Gorgon for repairs. They came in on a southerly orbit, and the island with the relics was the easiest place for them to land. I imagine they were furious at failing to make the main colonial base, not that it would have made much difference to the length of their stay. For when they radioed the main base for some major spare part they needed, it turned out not to be in stock, and had to be flown in from another star-system. So -- they waited. And it's my belief that, having nothing better to do, they set about deciphering the records left by the vanished aliens. It had been done once already -- perhaps they even found some notes left by Morgan Wade; I don't know. What I do know is that a month or five weeks went by, and the spare part arrived and was flown out from e colonial base, and away they went. Laying the entire island waste with their drive as they took off. I've been there. I've seen it. It haunts my dreams, and I wake up crying with rage and frustration. There's nothing left now but a pile of calcined rubble on a bare platform of rock sticking out of the sea. I'm certain it wasn't an accident, IF though that's what they tried to tell me on Gorgon. They maintained that the repairs must have been inadequate; the engineers are supposed to have overlooked some fault more serious than the one they spotted. But this implies that the engineers were incompetent, and I'm just not buying that. Does an incompetent man almost immediately set himself up as the head of a private army on Brocken and overthrow the government, becoming virtual dictator a few months later? That's what happened to the chief engineer! I was so heartbroken at this ruination of my lifelong ambitions that my first thought was this: I ought to make them pay for what I regarded as an unforgivable crime. I had some vague notion of suing the crew for the value of the items they'd destroyed -- I told one of the planetary councilmen that I could get a museum on Earth to certify a value for him, and though he personally didn't give a damn about alien relics he liked the idea of a windfall to the treasury. So he got the government to stake me the fare to the ship's latest recorded port of call. Well, I caught up with her. Only to find that every last one of her crew who'd been aboard when she landed on Gorgon had done the same as Morgan Wade and quit space for good. Following their separate trails was naturally more difficult and more expensive. I was often tempted to give up and content myself with grubbing on some other planet after some far less interesting species than the Gorgon race, especially when the Gorgon government decided they were throwing good money after bad and withdrew the retainer they'd been paying me. Worse yet, the chief engineer had become dictator of Brocken, as I said, and thus put himself effectively beyond reach of a private suit against him; and the ship's MO had joined the priestly hierarchy on Thummim, where he enjoyed legal immunity, and -- But that was when I spotted the incredible coincidence. It defied belief that these crewmen, all from the same ship, none of whom had displayed any extraordinary talents hitherto, should turn out overnight to be great leaders. I stopped worrying about compensation for the damage they'd wantonly committed on Gorgon, and began to worry very hard indeed about their impact on the human race. If they'd become masters of whole planets within a couple of years of acquiring the Gorgon secrets, what would they do next? They'd conquer the galaxy, separately or together -- and if separately, then the process of conquest was going to be indescribably dreadful for us poor untalented victims! I spent everything I'd saved to finance my work on Gorgon. I exhausted what I'd accumulated by packing my expense claims against the Gorgon government. I bankrupted myself with interstellar fares, got credit by sheer bluster and spent it and left for some other system just ahead of the law. I believe I'm wanted on at least three planets for dishonored debts. But I don't care. What counts is that I've finally brought my discovery to someone in a position to act against these -- these exploiters of ordinary humanity! B ain grunted. "I see. You've listed these former spacemen, have you?" "Yes, I have full details of their recent careers right here, and what little I could pick up about their earlier lives. They seem to be covering their tracks deliberately, getting rid of as many existing records as -- " Bain snapped his fingers impatiently. "Don't waste time talking about it -- let me read for myself." "I'm sorry," Falkirk apologized sheepishly, and handed over the rest of his fat bundle of documents. When Bain had been silent for a good half-minute, he could endure the waiting no longer. He forced out, "Well, Mr. Bain, what do you think?" "I think it's a pity you weren't given a full mathematical education," Bain muttered, turning up the last of the many pages before him. "What? But -- !" "Mr. Falkirk," Bain said with great deliberation, "you've submitted these findings for computer analysis, haven't you?" "Yes." Falkirk's voice dropped almost to a whisper. "But I'm convinced someone got to the computers first. Because the results I got were ridiculous "Just a second." Bain raised a hand. "What you hoped for, I imagine, was that the computers would pump out some astronomically long odds, and you'd be able to approach me with this as proof of the reality of the secrets found on Gorgon: correct?" "Why, yes. But -- " "Now here we have the odds as calculated by the computers," Bain continued imperturbably. "Naturally, using the unique memory banks here at Galrex, they did a far more thorough analysis than any unaided individual -- with all respect to yourself, Mr. Falkirk. And I see the print-out reads # over # -- in round numbers, about eightseventeenths." "Yes!" Falkirk was beside himself with excitement. "And that's obviously absurd, because -- " "Please!" Bain said sharply. "Mr. Falkirk, where do you come from originally?" "From Isis, but I don't sec what -- " "You will. On Isis, if I recall right, they still adhere to the ancient tradition of celebrating birthdays, don't they?" "As a matter of fact, they do, but -- " "Counting Year Day, there are # days in a standard year. Suppose you have two dozen people in a room : what are the odds against two of them, or more, sharing their birthdays?" Falkirk put his hand to his forehead. If Bain hadn't been SuperGalrex, doubtless he'd have refused to waste time on such a jejune question. With great effort he muttered, "Oh... Twenty-four, two twelves -- call it thirty-six, three twelves. IF times ten... two out of thirty... About fifteen to one!" Bain shoc his head heavily. "It is a pity you weren't trained as a mathematician. The actual odds are rfout # over #, or better than evens." "They can't be," Falkirk said, staring. "If there are # days in a year -- " "There's one chance in # that a given person's birthday will coincide with someone else's. For every additional person the odds against coincidence reduce by one; when you get to the two-dozenth person it's down to #. Now multiply all your fractions together -- # over #, # over #, and so on down to # -- and cancel. When you've done that, you'll find that there remain only about # chances out of # that the next person you try will have a birthday not already on your list. I'm sorry, but there it is. You find it equally extraordinary that out of the entire population of the galaxy ten men should suddenly and simultaneously prove to be great statesmen, leaders, business wizards -- but that's because you're making an intuitive assessment, nothing better than a guess. Examining the situation rationally, the computers have contradicted you." "But how?" Falkirk demanded. "How can this be true?" B ain sighed. "Look, Mr. Falkirk, suppose you ring for a cab, and cab license number I turns up. You'd say how remarkable that was, but this is nonsense. It was a sheer damned certainty that a cab would turn up -- excluding breakdowns and so forth, naturally. In precisely the same way, you mustn't only consider factors like the galactic population and the number of ships a-space when working out your problem. You have to figure in the compensating factors that go the other way, such as that at any given time it's a hundred per cent certain somebody will be top dog on each of our two thousand-plus planets. Is it any more surprising that the dictator of Brocken should be an ex-spaceman than that -- well, that I, out of two times ten to the twelfth living people, should sit in this chair?" "Yes, but every last one of the crew..." Doubt was creeping into Falkirk's voice now. Sensing it, Bain leaned forward to hammer his point home. "Mr. Falkirk, I do sympathize with you. I recognize your sincerity -- but for that. I'd not have accorded you so much of my time, which is rather valuable. Believe me, though, you've fallen into an elementary trap which must be over a thousand years old." "What am I going to do?" whispered Falkirk brokenly. "If you want my advice, you'd best forget all about this obsession of yours and go back to cosmoarcheology. There are too few good men in that field to waste someone with your persistence and drive -- and who can say? Maybe you'll turn up something as interesting as these 'Gorgon secrets'." "Yes, but I have no money, and I told you I'm wanted for debt on at least three planets!" "Mr. Falkirk," Bain said frigidly, "Fm afraid that's trouble you've brought on your own head. You can hardly expect me to set things right for you. Now, if you'll excuse me, I have a lot of work to do." Head bowed, moving like a man in a daze, Falkirk rose numbly and went out, not bothering to reclaim the precious sheaf of documents on which he'd based his belief in a threat to the human race. Bain gathered them together, and once more his thin mouth quirked into a smile. "Sir, the way you handled Falkirk was magnificent!" Ivor purred from the desk communicator. "He's walked off as meek as a lamb!" "Hm? Oh yes. I was going to tick you off about that, Ivor. You should have reasoned with him, not tried to throw him out. He was wellmeaning enough, and if his thinking had been a bit less confused he might even have had a valid point. Now shut up and don't disturb me till I say so." "Yes, sir," Ivor muttered, and the communicator fell silent. As it was, of course, Bain reflected, Falkirk had overlooked the valid point completely. He punched for a circuit to master computer control, and uttered crisp orders. "Get me all available data on the following persons! The new dictator of Brocken; the high priest on Thummim; the Autarch of Ling; the Premier of Nokomis..." Doing well, considering. But they'd never do any better, because the odds against them were too great. One against ten, to be precise. Insurmountable odds, when you figured in the crucial factor of control of Galrex. "The data are extensive. Superintendent," the machine said with sweet mechanical regret. "They will take about five minutes to print out in full." "I can wait," Bain grunted. He looked around the office, absorbing the aura of power it breathed. Yes, he'd been right from the very beginning -- he'd realized, even before leaving Gorgon, that in Galrex lay the key to the entire Lens. It had taken him a long time to get here, but that was of no consequence. Among the other achievements of the race that formerly inhabited Gorgon, they'd extended their mental control of probability to the maximization of individual lifespans. And he'd done nothing so crude as destroying the alien relics -- why, that misguided action had been so conspicuous, an idiot like Falkirk had come within an ace of explaining the reason for it! Though, as was inevitable, he'd brought his discovery to the person uniquely fitted to explain it away again... Bain pursed his lips. He'd been worried for two centuries that someone might connect him and Morgan Wade. It had finally happened, and here he was, safe and sound. Really, they must have been amazing creatures, there on Gorgon! It looked as though it would take him another century to get really used to what IF IF  Novelette Ve Hunters Of Men He hunted the most deadly prey on Earth -- the men who long ago had ruled HI I A movement high on the wall caught his eye, and Edmond Reud pushed back the hair that usually protected him from the sun, but which was now a danger to his vision. Face and hands smeared the same ochre color as the sky, a man leaped from the wall with a rusty blade. Edmond sent a crossbow reed low, into the belly of the scalper, and the wounded body whistled by. Dust rose even to where Edmond was sitting on his whudey. The whudey sneezed. Another reed sang from Edmond's crossbow, piercing the fallen man in the throat. The whudey grunted when Edmond dismounted, but was patient as he bent over and cut around the hair-line of the corpse. After a tug and a rip, the scalp came free and Edmond sprinkled sand across its bloody side. That makes five, which means fifty pellets on exchange, Edmond mused as he tucked the hair into a bulging pouch. On the horizon behind him rose the Minced Mountain and its metal stalk which seemed to hold up the sky. To his left were barren mountains on which the sky merely rested, and to the right, rose jagged peaks. At that moment the inexplicable mind-prickling began to plague him again. Edmond groaned, but looked toward the city and the pellets for which he would soon feel a need. Ahead, sandblasted and emaciated, but still succeeding in holding the mouth of the subterranean city open, towered two walls, which gradually sank into the sand and left a gaping hole for anyone who would enter the city. Although the darkness seemed menacing, Edmond Reud knew it was actually the safest place in the world. Part of it was respect for fair play and humanity that kept men from scalping each other in the city itself. The city was a safety zone -- the only safety zone. In one of its sand and dirt rooms sat an Exchanger with the pellets, the stimuli that made rhen hunt each other. Sure, there were a few who tried to violate safety respect in the city, but they ended up facing the anger of tveryone there, instead of just one man, as they would outside. The odds were better outside in the sun. I n the stables the whudey whined in fear of being left alone. Edmond gave it a rough pat and a back scratch, but continued on foot in the direction of his room. He passed through the darkness into the strangely lighted chambers, and passageways, the crossbow dangling on his fingertips. Why take chances? You learned that it was better to be pessimistic and end contented if nothing happened, than optimistic and very disappointed if something did. Edmond squinted at the crudely lettered sign at the fork in the corridor, and glanced at the arrows pointing to the respective rooms. Ernev, Bob, Rundal. Some names had been taken down. The owners were, no doubt, lying bleached in the sun somewhere. It had been a long time since he had last been to the city. He had left enough food and pellets for Cathy, but he feared he knew she wouldn't be waiting in his room. She wouldn't have left on her own, but there were other men with that certain pellet wealth that appealed to Cathy. His room was empty. It had been empty a long time, for cobwebs rounded off the corners of the woodbeam ceiling. 'T'm sorry," began the message scribbled on the doorbeam. "But I thought you might be dead. God bless you. Love, Cathy." Edmond laughed aloud, but the laugh kind of hurt his ears. That was Cathy, all right. He wanted to laugh again, but it just didn't come out. No reason for him to stay around. Best get rid of the scalps IF and head for the sun again. And hope the mind-prickling didn't resume its fury. Exchange the scalps... Edmond was beginning to pant heavily, and his muscles ached. He was already beginning to need the pellets. "Scalps," said the usual sign on the usual doorway of the room where light streamed from the usual crystal and metal object on the wall, illuminating the usual Exchanger. A larger sign at the man's feet shouted: "Women: #. Men: #." The exchange for a female scalp has risen ten pellets. Some men would find it in them to collect... but Edmond had never wanted to try it. Respect again... Cross-legged, the palid Exchanger sat in a trance. Edmond pulled out his pouch, spread the clumps of hair across the sand floor, and waited. When he slipped back to reality, the Exchanger glanced down and in two smooth motions swept up the scalps and handed Edmond two handfuls of pellets. Edmond looked into his eyes: often he had felt himself hating this man, but respect for the safety zone had prevented him lets. A fear of not being able to obtain pellets later on entered into his restraint also, he realized. One last backward glance as Edmond left the room showed him the Exchi'ingcr opening his mouth slowly and in it placing a large oblong pellet that looked impossible to swallow. Edmond had never thought of a second kind of pellet existing, but tile Exchanger had just taken one. U T o Crux Orbit I Terra: I am officer replacing Com Stapleton. Would like to know what is trouble with planet Tinni. Have no backTo Base Roquefort Orbit # Tinni: everything you've heard about Tinni. Is small hot planet and was one of twelve planets beset by aliens called Judicians. Judicians crisped seven planets with nonradioactive burner before Dept. Forces annihilated all Judicians except those who managed to enclose Tinni in charge field. Some human colonists are trapped under charge field with Judicians. We believe all Judician weapons on Tinni were destroyed or damaged and Judicians are a physically weak race so Judicians should not be any great threat to Tinni colonists in those senses. However we must assume that Judicians will try any means for destroying as many human colonists as possible. Judician nature to be nonsubmissive. How not know. We are under pressure from colonization supervision and especially from Bureau of the Million Wonders of the Universe to rescue Tinni colonists. Politics says we must rescue them or else. To Crux Orbit I Terra: I incomprehend problems of rescue of Tinni colonists. To Base Roquefort Orbit # Tinni: Damn right you lack background. No one can land on Tinni because charge field will not allow entrance of objects more complex than diaIF lomic elements. Covalent bond diemically. Five terran years were ient on charge field breakthrough research with animals and devices. Only success was device which managed to get through and home in on generators of charge field. If device is working properly it should be attracting human colonists of certain cortex wave emissions to generators in hope that colonists will tinker with generators and drop charge field. Meantime we plan to send out new device controlled by volunteer pilot. Volunteer is brother of stranded Tinni colonist. Pray or something. To Crux Orbit I Terra: Excuse persistence on my part. Curiosity. Is charge field high or low around planet and are colonists ad or devanced scientifically? To Base Roquefort Orbit # Tinni: Is low. Field uses mountains as conductors of generators and Tinni core energy. Are devanced. Colonists still use animal transport and because planet is hot inhabit tub T cities. We can suspect further scientific devancement because of Judician factor in Tinni culture. To Crux Orbit I Terra: Curiosity. Why was Com Stapleton taken from jqb as research director of Tinni breakthrough? To Base Roquefort Orbit # Tinni: Because five years of recording failures. Mental breakdown of course. So good luck to you. Curiosity. Who's going to pay for this lengthy vacuum discussion? Your background has been costly! T he whudey nuzzled its flared nose into the hot sand, shifting its weight on heavy feet and scratching its rump on a cactus-reed leaf. It then emitted a sigh of pleasure. Edmond awoke from his comfortable position on the slope of the animal's largest hump and immediately grew aware of the prickling inside his cranium. It made him want to scream, but he recognized it, and remembered with annoyance and a little terror that this was just the beginning. The mild part. He just didn't understand this thing in his head. The prickling had occurred over a dozen times before, always growing softer as he neared the Minced Mountain and the metal stalk. After a few days of soothing sensation, the feeling had always stopped, allowing Edmond to resume his search for men and their scalps. Edmond echoed the sigh of the whudey. This meant that he would have to go back to the Mountain and bear the whole process once again. But first -- He dropped from the equinine camel and slashed with a rusty blade at the reeds that had sheltered him from observation the night before. Slicing off the pulpy, thorned leaves, he gathered the bare stems into a bundle, and resumed his perch on the whudey. The shaping of new reeds should kill enough time to take the monotony from the trip ahead. Besides the city, the next safest place was the mid-desert, where you could survey # square kilometers and no human movement could escape you. Any would-be scalper would be noticed far enough ahead for time to shoot some food, roast it over a fire and shape any reeds you might need when he finally did arrive. Edmond laughed. If you wanted to live a life of sun and safety, dig a hole or erect a tent right where he was. That is, if you didn't need the pellets in the city; and Edmond doubted that anyone didn't need the pellets sometime. Wincing at the thought of no pellets, Edmond remembered the violent spasms that had hit him when he had waited too long without them. The prickling continued and Edmond found himself automatically scratching his head as if for fleas. Everything was becoming more and more incomprehensible as the days passed. Especially his memory: it was as if he had been born with plush facial hair -- his memory extended back no further than that. The more he thought about it consciously, the more Edmond found that something had drained importance from his life. There was constant depression -- perhaps because there was no memory of a past life on which to base the degrees of happiness. Or was the depression merely from his lack of understanding of the world? No significance to life... except a pride in that respect for fairIay in most men. Respect that did not belong to a degenerate world of blood and pellets. Perhaps he didn't belong either -- he had that respect. S wishing its forked tail to ward off insects that had accompanied it from the city, the whudey began to blink in a twitch. It gazed out across the desert. Edmond rose in the slick saddle and observed that his whudey stood on the border between a barren land peppered with individual weeds and plants, and that hypnotic world of animated sands. Like the whudey, Edmond wanted to blink the sandy inferno away; but it was there with him, as were the innumerable pins under his skull. He felt like splitting open his cranium and scratching. The whudey half trotted, half loped toward the large speck that called Edmond to the horizon. The area around the well was quite exposed from attack from the nearby rocks, but both man and beast needed water. This time, Edmond had to be optimistic. He again parted the hair hanging in his face and stared into the waterhole. It was too narrow, too smooth and deep to have been dug by shovels, and it looked old. A glance at the well caused Edmond to think of the sky that seemed to rest on the mountains, but he dismissed the association for its pointlessness. If he could only remember back, things would be clear. Having pulled the twin water bags from the whudey's lower hump, he lowered them simultaneously into the well and awaited the splash. When it did come, so did a human shadow to his right. Fool! he shouted silently to himself. So busy meditating, he hadn't even bothered keeping the crossbow beside him. Edmond pretended not to see the IP figure watching him, and through peripheral vision searched for an opportune position for a dash to the saddle. He felt foolish. If his would-be scalper had a knife, he would throw it; with a crossbow, he would get Edmond no matter what. A knife, Edmond hoped. The buzzing of a thousand insects made Edmond unconsciously look to the right. The advancing scalper had also stopped and turned in the direction of the sound: Behind the scalper a flat metal circle skipped across the dunes, and dipped toward him. It couldn't be possible, but Edmond thought he could see the Exchanger's face on the circle -- which was now resembling a platform -- and beside it another face, gray, unfamiliar. The passengers of the flying platform saw the scalper without noticing Edmond, who flattened himself behind the scattered rocks around the well. The platform dipped again and flashed by the dumbfounded scalper. The rim of its floor struck his head, and he staggered, falling. One temple began to shine red in the sun. After a last dip for inspection of the lifeless human, the platform was gone. Ill T here had never been death like that before: machine against man, and Edmond tried to shake it away with a shiver of his shoulders. There had been no battle at all -- but a man had been killed. In such murder there was no respect for equal opportunity, no respect for Man the Fighter. And Edmond knew the platform would have killed him, too, had it seen him. Freeing the body of its scalp was messy and slow for Edmond. A sloppy job; Edmond realized he was disturbed by small nagging notions in his head. Too mny confusing things were happening lately. The platform, the grayish figure beside the Exchanger, the metal stalk, the Minced Mountain, no memory. He developed a quick headache. Thank God it wasn't the windy season, he sighed, starting to scale the infinity of boulders -- the pieces of the shattered mountain called Minced Mountain. Edmond Reud craned his neck up the # meters of rocks and up the other # meters of metal pole. Both mountain and pole didn't belong here. They had not been born with the land; and, with more confusion, they attached themselves to his mind in association with the flying platform that had seemed to be traveling from the city in the direction of the Mountain. The prickling had waned slightly with each step up the mountain. By now it was soft and satisfying, but Edmond wasn't satisfied. It would take him at least ten days to search the shadows of the boulders for whatever was calling him with the prickling and whispering in his head. But assuming that the closer he got to it, the more soothing the prickling would become, the search would neither be impossible nor unbearable. The whudey would not accompany him. Edmond would have to find a place for it and hope the animal didn't snort and betray itself if anyone came near. No -- something besides hope could be done about the snorting. An oblong boulder rested on a low cliff and another long towering rock, forming a natural stall. Edmond led the reluctant animal into the crag's darkness, allowed the whudey five drinks of water, and then tied a piece of rivul skin around its head loosely, but so that it would permit no braying or wheezing. The whudey stood quietly, completely subdued; Edmond gave it a reassuring pat between its silky ears. Edmond started and stared at the water bags. He hadn't noticed that before... or had he? The two bags were not animal skin, and what they were, he didn't know. He sighed a second time, as he realized that as the metal platform associated itself with the Minced Mountain in his mind, so did these water holders -- which were blue, slick and easily wrinkled -- associate themselves with the city, the metal and crystal city lights, and human beings. Two categories of life seemed to be forming in his mind. Logic told him that whatever called him . at intervals was not natural, so he wondered to himself what it would associate itself with when and if he finally reached it. He made its discovery his goal -- something important to life -- even though he was tired of the whole situation; and he made curiosity his stimulus. Since there was no wind to erase his footprints, he tore a large brush from a crevace and swished it in a fury on the ground at the mouth of the whudey's "stall" and across his own tracks as he proceeded toward his goal. On the rocks he would have no worry of being tracked... N o worry of being tracked, unless, as he realized after a few hours of scrambling and frequent slipping, he left a trail of blood. With knuckles torn and screaming quietly in agony from repetitious scrapings, Edmond strove toward the sky, noticing an ever so slight change in the sensation on his brain. Were there any others being called to this place, or was he alone? If there were, they would be trying to stay hidden from his vision, so he shouldn't expect to see anyone in any case. Edmond fumbled. His crossbow clattered against the gray rock; a few reeds rolled out and fell down the slope. He swore and for the first time allowed himself to stand and to stretch, a perfect target for any weapon nearby. He just could not go on without breaking the monotony for his legs and back. The pole glittered above him. Edmond couldn't analyze his deduction logically, but his eyes told him that the pole touched the "sky" as did the mountains to the east and west. Perhaps it was the minute dark tops that made it seem so. Whatever it was, Edmond felt trapped on earth. Mixed emotions flashed over him with each attempt IF deep thought, so he did as little as possible. When he closed his eyes, he could still see the ominous boulders around him. This was a new inferno of gray and the bleached and the yellowwhite heat of the sky. Four days had passed, and nothing... Cut and festering hands and shins took all annoyance from the dust that covered his skin. With a groan he stretched again, and then stopped. An inky darkness different from the usual gray shadows stared at him ten meters away. Darkness meant depth, and depth was seclusion and mystery. His hopes were increased as the mindprickling decreased even more. Half falling, he rushed into the mouth of the cave, and cried out as he almost collided with a man seated on the floor. Edmond stared, heart sounding in his ears. The man's leg was bent at an incredible angle, and what of the man's skin that could be seen through caked dirt was pale and creased. Edmond had seen similar skin once before. Pale and wrinkled from need of pellets. XTormaJly Edmond would have killed the man automatically, but he was not out on the desert now; he was in the unnatural Minced Mountain, and he found it easier to ally himself with the cripple than with his environment. Neither spoke. The man on the floor probably awaited death at Edmond's hands. Edmond awaited an explanation. Rows of small metal containers on wooden shelves stretcher back into the cave. Edmond again sensed that these were related to the city and not to the flying platform. Confusion was mounting -- with frustration, and impatience. "I'm not going to kill you," Edmond said, then felt the absurdity of the statement. The man's face upturned. His snarled hair and beard were graying. Lord, he was old, Edmond realized with a start. Edmond had only seen one Other old man before, a thousand or more days before, the body lying dehydrated and scalped in the desert. "Speak. What is all this?" Again his words sounded foolish, but his words could only echo his thoughts. One seldom found occasion to talk these days. These days? Had there been time before when one had found occasion to talk a lot? The old man was quiet, staring at Edmond. "Sit down," he finally commanded tiredly, and Edmond did so, lying his crossbow aside without hesitation. "You really want to know? You are curious?" Edmond nodded. The old man mumbled something about hope, and sighed. "Then I will tell you and you will have to listen long. There's a lot to say. But since you want to know..." Edmond awaited, finding himself momentarily envisioning the old man, Edmond himself and the whole situation a bit insane. The old man whispered to himself, seeming to chose and arrange the words he would use. Edmond wanted to scream at him to hurry and say something, anything, to break the craziness of the moment. IV #T am, I think, Richard Cordaro. X My leg," the old man said, stroking it as if it were a separate animal, "was broken badly and it's been this way for I don't know how many hundred days. I fell into the cave from a scuffle on the rocks above the cave's opening. It was the second guy who tried to kill me while I had been in the cave. You'll find their skeletons somewhere outside, and their animals' somewhere, too. Probably starved to death," The old man was almost babbling. "I can only crawl and I can barely even talk. I've wanted to talk so much, but no one to talk to all that time. I remember I came here because something called me in my head." As Edmond's eyes jerked in recognition, the old man nodded heavily. "I thought that is why you're here, too. Later we might talk about what calls us here. We have time." He cleared his throat, and resumed. "Since there was nothing for me to lean on to get out, I haven't left, but nor do I want to." The old man gestured at the metal containers. "I have all the food and water I need. Brought them here from a storage room in the city. So much stuff in that room, but I broke my leg and got stranded here before I could bring it all here, to my home, the place that calls me so much." Trying to pull himself along, the old man began to move toward the shelves. Scrambling to his feet, Edmond motioned him to stay still. He felt a new respect -- or a pity -- for this man named Cordaro. "Do you want some of the containers?" Edmond asked. The old man nodded again. It looked like water in the crystal containers, Edmond observed as he sat metal and crystal ones down before Richard Cordaro, who pulled a rusty metal thing from a cranny in the wall. This new metal thing was related to the containers and the city, came the immediate analysis from Edmond's subconscious. With a few jerky motions from the old man's hand, one of the metal containers was opened and wonderful odors hit Edmond in the face. "Go on -- have some," Cordaro said. "There's enough for an army here." He shoved the container toward Edmond, who wrinkled his nose and stuck his fingers into the food. The moisture of the stuff was pleasantly cool to his mouth. With food floating in his jowls, Edmond still managed to blurt, "You do have food and water, but how do you get any pellets. How long have you lacked them? I have some if you need -- " "God no!" the old man interrupted. "Let me go on explaining. No more pellets, ever! I -- " "But look what's happening to your -- " The old man interrupted again, "I asked you to let me go on." Edmond was silent. "I have a bad memory." IF Again Edmond started, but said nothing. C#T have a bad memory, but I X can remember everything that has happened to me since I stopped swallowing the pellets, a long time ago, many memories ago. The pain of no pellets was bad for twenty days, but it left... You can't remember that far back for yourself. But then you have been eating the pellets; they have everything to do with a man's memory." Cordaro stared into Edmond's face. "And I think it is because I haven't had the pellets that I can remember faint things that happened before I first took the pellets. I've written those feelings and memories down on the racks I built to hold up the food." He pointed to a wooden board holding up the shelves. "Would you mind reading them to me, and to yourself?" As Edmond neared the inscriptions, he saw they were numbered. "Number one: 'There is something wrong in the world, for there are no flying animals in the sky.' " "Stop," Cordaro motioned to him. "Have you noticed that?" After a thought back into what of his life he could remember, Edmond agreed. "Yes, I suppose. The only one I did see, fell to pieces when it flew too high. It hit the sky..." The old man smiled for the first time. "It hit the sky. The sky is very close; you've noticed that, too. Read the next one." " 'There is something wrong in the world, because my mind tells me that at night there should be moons and stars in the sky.' " Edmond's mouth fell open slightly. "Stars" and "moons." As soon as the two new words appeared in his mind, he knew the statement was correct. "Go on," Cordaro said. "'There is something wrong in the world, because my mind tells me that someone is trying to get into the world.' " Edmond had never felt that; he read on, "Number four: 'There is something very wrong, because my mind tells me sqmeone is trying to kill all men in the world.' " Edmond stopped himself. "Of course!" he announced in a frustrated voice. "Men are trying to kill men." "Yes, but why?" coached the old man. "For pellets. They're a necessity." "Not to me." "But the pain, and your skin..." "I have no pain now. The pellets are a habit out of men's weaknesses." Cordaro closed his eyes to think. "And as you yourself know, the pellets hurt your memory." Edmond read on without urging: "'There is something wrong in the world, for my mind tells me that men shouldn't forget things as they do.'" A ll at once these new revelations were too much for Edmond's brain. He sank to the floor and put his face in his hands. "You don't have to accept it all," said the old man. "But don't discard it all, either. Try to fit it into your own logic and observations. And please listen to the next two words with all you have." Richard Cordaro then proceeded to succinctly pronounce: "Beautiful women." A feeling of contentment and appreciation followed as Edmond heard the two words. He told Cordaro his emotions. "Your feelings about women are mine," Cordaro remarked. "But remember the sign in the city tells us to kill them for pellets. Our happiness and contentment at the thought of women cannot be a freak of opinion and thought, so most men must feel the way we do. And still the sign says kill women! The Exchangers are men, so basically they must feel as we do. There must be something behind the Exchangers, scalps and pellets, which is not Man." Edmond discovered himself thinking, for the first time in his memory. "You're assuming too much," he objected. "You're not being logical because you just dismissed the possibility of the two of us being freaks. Aren't we the only ones being called to the mountain. That's freakish. And you can't dismiss the possibility of the Exchangers being freaks either." "I see the reasoning in your arguments. My 'logic is based mostly on memory feelings, and I'll have to be shown one way or another that we, and not the pellet-bounties offered on scalps, are freaks to this world, before I'll abandon my feelings. I know of men who have killed women for the pellets, men who would rather do that than bear pain, but still they've had good feelings deep inside for women. They are merely men without respect and pride, I think." The old man was calm; he seemed tired. It gradually sank into Edmond. Respect again and again. "Yes... I won't forget that, no matter what else the pellets make me forget. I will remember the respect. Edmond started to move toward the outside, "I'll have to return to the city before I can have any peace in my mind. I want understanding." "A minute, please... your name?" Cordaro asked. "Edmond Reud." "Edmond, go to the writing on the shelves again, and read the two columns of words you missed. Cover the right-hand column with your hand, read the left-column words to yourself, and then read the right column." "Tinni," Edmond read to himself. He had never heard the word before -- never before in what life he could remember, so he could not know what it meant. But the word "Tinni" made him feel proud and close to whatever Tinni was. Edmond looked at the right-hand column. E ight words were etched there: "The feeling of being near and dear." Exactly what Edmond had felt. He closed his eyes; the old man, he concluded, was right about the wrongness of loss of memory. The next word, or two words, was "Earth-Terra". "Earth" brought nothing, but "Terra" filled Edmond's mind with the memory sensation of something far away, watching him always, somehow. IF The corresponding sentence in the right-hand column said: "Far away, but important." The third word: "Starship." An admiration pride fear awe joy slapped him immediately across the brain, and the corresponding sentence turned out to be the words "Pride and Power". The last word -- no, there were eight words. Edmond's heart rocked inside his chest. It kicked and pushed him. The words were: "Death of Tinni and all men on Tinni." With a cry, he collapsed and moaned. Depression-honor-sense-ofimmediacy-futility-terror swept over him, flogging him. Edmond was panting when he finally rose and stared at the old man -- the prophet, the wizard of words. Edmond understood what Tinni was; he looked at the right column, which said accordingly and appropriately: "More terrible to me than even my own death." "I hope I haven't given you too much," the old man said. "As I said before, something is wrong in this world of ours. Hold tight." "I'm going back to the city to find the Exchanger. I'll do something." "You'll do something," Cordaro mused, "for curiosity. It is so for me also. And also for something more than curiosity... "Out of respect for men in our world," Edmond said. "It seems so. I want to know what is happening in the world, because I have nothing else to do. I cannot move, to scalp, and take pellets, as other men do." "I want to know what is happening," Edmond returned, "because I have nothing else to do except scalp and take pellets, as other men do." V T o Base Roquefort Orbit #. Tinni: You will soon receive comWonders of the Universe. Watch your step. Do not offend them in any way. Say little at all. Urgent. Bureau is debating whether to support the dismantling of the action dept. Our dept. Pray they don't support it. To Crux Orbit I Terra: Check. To Base Roquefort Orbit # Tinni: Double check it damn! tory #: Greetings. Do you desire to talk with Base Roquefort? To Base Roquefort Orbit # Tinni: Of course. This is interview for bulletin. Very important that you have answers to questions. We desire to know what is being done to open planet Tinni. We have interest in developing Tinni into monument dedicated to colonist tenacity in overwhelming odds if Tinni colonists are still alive. If colonists are not alive then a monument for those brave colonists who died serving mankind. Clear? Yes clear. In fifteen hours a volunteer brother of Tinni colonist will leave Base Roquefort in latest ship developed and will attempt breakthrough of Tinni charge field. Volunteer is necessary for manual control because at from twenty five to one hundred kilometers field has unknown effects on electrical expansion devices used for countering charge field. To Base Roquefort Orbit # Tinni: Good. We sincerely hope success. We know you're doing your best. You may know that we will certainly support continuation of your dept. If you're successful in this problem. Thank you. To Base Roquefort Orbit # Tinni: Never waste dept, funds with a thank you response. We desire to know what are possible touristic points of Tinni that could be developed on Tinni by our bureau. Don't really know. Perhaps Judician generators which are presently supplying energy for charge field from Tinni core. Or perhaps the device that broke through charge field and homed in on generators and is now attracting colonists to generators by cortical wave irritation. Clear? To Base Roquefort Orbit # Tinni: No. But no matter. We meant any cities etc. Sorry. Underground cities. Very primitive. Would the fact that the colonists can't see the moons of Tinni or the stars because of coloidal suspension of atmospheric particles in charge field make good plavup point for bulletin? To Base Roquefort Orbit # Tinni: Very good. Primitiveness will get tourist sympathy. So will no moons nor stars to light up the nights. One more point for human interest in bulletin. Please give name of volunteer who will try to break through charge field and enter Tinni. Also when. Volunteer will try to take ship through charge field as near generators as possible. Name is Samuel Cordaro brother of colonist director three Richard Cordaro. E dmond slapped his whudey fiercely, and then calmed himself feeling foolish for taking his frustration out on the animal. He spoke to it with softer words, talking at the same time to himself about respect, Cathy, Tinni, Heaven and Hell. Once again the Minced Mountain rose behind him. Night was approaching cancer-like from the west, and the flame-red sunset encouraged his anger at the Exchangers and at whomever or whatever was offering the bounties on scalps. Edmond Read searched the sky for stars and moons. None, of course. No, there did seem to be one. A sparkling white fire spot. But stars were not supposed to grow larger as you watched them. In a few seconds this spot was greatly larger, and then in a shower of light it stopped increasing. It glowed for a moment, seemed to wax in which, Edmond noticed in surprise, began to grow larger themselves. The pieces were falling to earth. He sent the whudey galloping toward the likely spot where the broken "star" would strike the world. IF Some hunks were large. Some small. Some metal and some meat. All the meat was in small chunks. "There is something wrong in the world, for my mind tells me that someone is trying to get in." Edmond remembered the prophet's words. Did "get in" mean by foot or by whudey from a world on the other side of the "sky". No... not by foot or whudey. By platform then? Perhaps. The "star" must have been a flying platform or something. The immediate conclusion that came to Edmond's mind was that the meat pieces were of a flying animal that had hit the platform. It would have had to have been a big bird to shatter a platform, wouldn't it? The pieces of both were so scattered around an extensive area that Edmond could not judge the respective sizes. He gathered dry bushes, molded them into a ball, and retrieved an armful of meat pieces. They would taste good over a fire, he thought as he lit the brush with a match. He looked at the miniature torch in his fingers as it burst into flame, and began to think -- where did it come from? -- but was distracted by thoughts of the taste of flying animal. Edmond enhaled the aroma of the roasting meat and suddenly a chill made him nauseous. His appetite left and he could only think of the new words and emotions in him. The chill hit him again. As he mounted his animal, the pieces of meat were burning, some turning to ash. Edmond didn't look back. He no longer felt the pieces of meat were from a bird. J akesu was gesturing wildly and shouting, as Edmond entered the room behind his back. Jakesu, wild and carefree manhunter, couldn't still be alive! But he was there, and his beard was graying. Edmond smiled to himself and started to shout a hello, and hesitated. The city rooms were all small, and this one was cramped with wide-eyed listeners, so at first Edmond had not seen what his boisterous friend was holding up. One of the listeners moved aside and Edmond could then see the odd gray scalp dangling in Jakesu's hand. The same gray color as had been on the flying platform with the Exchanger. "They cannot be men, or they would not want to kill women." The old man's thoughts again returned to Edmond. A flame began to roar inside Edmond. Pushing and shouting louder than anyone, Edmond Reud made his way to the scalp. "Where did you get that!" Jakesu turned. "Edmond! Best friend among many friends." He winked. "You mean this fine scalp? A strange one, no?" "Yes, of course. Where did you get it?" Edmond was frantic. "Well..." he pulled Edmond over to the side of the crowd, which had turned its attention to another teller of tales. "I'll let you in on my fortune. There's more where this scalp came from. I heard the clattering and saw a hundred of them near that broken-up mountain." Edmond wasn't sure that Jakesu could be trusted, but he had no choice really. "Well, old friend," he said, forcing a smile to match Jakesu's jovial mood, "we should show this scalp to the Exchanger." "Just what I was going to do. How many pellets do you think?" As Edmond threw the scalp to the floor, the Exchanger cried out and fell backward. Edmond grabbed him by the neck, shaking him, and motioned back Jakesu, who was stepping forward. "I'm not going to hurt him. Wait here," he told Jakesu impatiently, "while I ask him some questions." The pale Exchanger's form was limp in Edmond's hands, and became limper when Edmond shouted, "You recognize this scalp! It belonged to that thing in the platform with you, didn't it? It was flying beside you when you killed that man with the platform!" The Exchanger began to whine, but Edmond went on, finding no sympathy for him, "Jakesu says there are others with scalps like this. They're not human are they! They are not men," Edmond sneered, "but they offer the damned pellets so men will kill each other. They aren't men -- no respect for the men and women we are. You are the same as they are, pellet peddler. I should vomit the pellets in your face." The Exchanger's eyes lolled and breathing slowed. Edmond let him fall. "Jakesu, I've forty pellets. You'll have them if you guide me to the other gray scalps, but I don't plan to take any scalps." Edmond almost pleaded, "Believe me. I'm not interested in them, in scalps or pellets. It's what's under the scalps." Jakesu looked at Edmond, puzzled, "You're not interested in pellets? You're crazy! You'd die if you didn't have them. You can say you don't need pellets now because you're not in pain, but men change once they're outside the city and feeling the cramps and shakes." "No," Edmond sighed, "I know someone who doesn't need pellets. He is alive, he isn't in pain, and he has a memory which we don't. And he is a man!" "Forty pellets..." Jakesu looked 'thoughtful, even though still confused. "Forty pellets," Edmond repeated. "But as you said, men change once outside the city. I'll give you the pellets after we've arrived at the gray-scalp things." VI B oth whudeys pounded the ground with bristly hooves, and the men grunted rhythmically from the jolts. Edmond hurried them on. He glanced to the left and saw the metal stalk and Mountain near. If Edmond had to, he would be able to reach Cordaro quickly. Jakesu was quiet and fidgety, always falling behind. Edmond could see the doubt in his colleague's face. "There!" Jakesu finally pointed to an abrupt dip in the desert, surrounded by infrequent large boulders. Why had he nevei come by here IF before? Edmond wondered, and then noticed the deep gorges between the Minced Mountain and e dip. Only a long exaggerated route would allow men to get here from the city or the Minced Mountain because of the gorges. For Edmond it had always been direct travel between the Mountain and the city, back and forth, as both the Mountain and the need for pellets had called him in turn. Both men dismounted and crept behind one of the rock giants that spotted the area. The mind-prickling and tingling was starting again. Edmond cursed. Up close, the dip was not really a dip, but rather an immense natural hole in the desert. Seven meter high cliffs were the walls of the hole. A cave opening -- twice the size of the one where Edmond had found Cordaro -- blackened the far end of the hole. Edmond squinted. Gray figures scurried here and there; and the flying platform rested near the cave entrance. "Jakesu, how did you get down there?" It was hard for Edmond to whisper when he wanted to shout. Jakesu stared at him in puzzlement again, and shook his head slowly. He reluctantly pointed to a natural shelf on the cliff near the cave opening. "I slipped down to that, and roped the gray-scalp one when he was getting off that round metal contraption." Jakesu hesitated, but then went on. "Rivul skin rope is strong. I hauled him up to the ledge, and killed him. He's probably still there. Rotting." It took fifteen minutes to move from boulder to boulder and to the cliff edge above the shelf without being seen. Edmond turned to the graying beard behind him. "Here are the forty pellets." He shoved them into Jakesu's hand. "I'm going down there now. If you want, you can join me " Edmond fitted a reed into the cro.ssbovv. and shifted it to his right hand. J akesu said nothing at firsts but then began moving toward him. "You must be crazy." Jakesu seemed determined. "All your talk, crazy talk. Edmond, I can't chance you messing up this set-up; it's a fortune in pellets. Don't go down there, iriease.' Jakesu had lost his humor. Edmond glared at him, silently and Jakesu advanced, facial features contorting as he grabbed at Edmond's neck. Edmond Reud dropped the crossbow, grasped one of Jakesu's elbows and sleeve, rolled back, sank a foot into Jakesu's stomach, and pitched a bewildered Jakesu over the ledge. The scalper's spine cracked loudly as Jakesu struck the ledge and continued falling. The gray non-humans dashed about clumsily, as Edmond hid. Without being noticed he slipped down to the ledge, and shot five of the creatures with reeds. A high their own mouths, trailed after the fleeing forms. Edmond found an opportunity to drop down the last four meters of cliff wall. Legs aching from impact, he retrieved the reeds, wiped off the almost "human" blood and entered the cave at a run. About twenty of them stood there, motionless. Edmond killed two, but, seeing that they were not about to attack, stopped and cautiously walked through them. Something hit him from behind, but he was ready and he turned, swinging a fist. A cranium caved in under his hand to Edmond's surprise and the lifeless body of the brave gray-scalp thing fell back into the group. It had been so soft. So weak. Edmond shuddered... and surprised himself by turning and taking out his insecurity on the creatures that huddled before him. The blood from the twenty nonhumans was so thick on the reeds he didn't even bother to clean it off. The animals at his feet, he concluded, were neither especially intelligent nor physically strong. They had seemed to be merely doing the work and not supervising it when Edmond had first seen them. He couldn't believe that they were the bounty offerers. He knew, as he seemed to know so many other things lately -- perhaps through a life he couldn't remember -- that these creatures were but the slaves or servants of the real bounty offerers. What Edmond wanted was not the "slave", but rather the "slave-owner", and if the slaves were at work, the slave-owner would be at rest. In the cave... The Minced Mountain still called, but he remembered an obligation to IF Tinni. He wanted to find those who were for "the death of Tinni and all men." His goal had changed, he realized; or had it? Someone coughed. Edmond whirled in the semi-darkness and watched a second Exchanger he had seen in the city, amble by unaware. "Traitor." Edmond whispered hoarsely. The caves echoed slightly. The Exchanger's knees bent, as he almost collapsed against the cave wall. Quickly Edmond slipped a reed from the bundle and pressed it hard against the man's throat. "I won't kill you now," Edmond announced, "if you tell me enough, and 'enough' is everything you know." The man squirmed under the reed; Edmond let up a little. "I've taken the pellets," Edmond spoke again. "So I don't have much of a memory, but I know enough to know when you're lying." He pressed down on the reed. A gasp, and then slowly: "I could not help it." The Exchanger seemed to fall apart, eyes watering. "Do you know what a Judician is?" Edmond felt the word "Judician" and the gray things he had just killed associate themselves. He nodded. "The Judicians put the field around Tinni. Then the Judician Centurion -- the commander of the weak ones -- found me wrecking their weapons. I managed to get to all the weapons except one, but they couldn't use it. They're too weak and disorganized to get it on the sand foil and move it." As each new word was spoken, it became old and fell into place in Edmond's mind. Pieces of memory filled his head with a light and a confusion. The Exchanger mumbled on, pathetically, even to Edmond. "They kept me a prisoner in the cave. I had to eat what they gave me -- I didn't know it was a narcotic, that it would give me hallucinations. They ate it, too, so I didn't have any idea I would get addicted. Please believe me!" "And the pellets you give men are narcotics, too?" Edmond had a grim line for a mouth. The Exchanger nodded slowly. "But the pellets they made me hand out to men make human beings lose memory association. The Judicians had studied the effects of narcotics on men a long time before. They knew men would kill each other to get the pellets, if they put a pellet price on a human scalp, and mad : men forget most of their lives. The Judicians are trying to kill all men on Tinni. They have high prices on women's scalps so we won't reproduce -- so we'll die off. I didn't know what the Judicians were doing until too late. I couldn't do anything about it. The Centurion said I wouldn't get any more of their food if I didn't start the pellets around, exchange them for scalps after men were addicted and turn the scalps I got into him. I haven't killed anybody like everybody else has." The Exchanger was panicking. "Even you've killed a lot of men. I couldn't help it. Even if I had refused the Centurion and died. the Judicians would have found someone else to take my place as an Exchanger. You want to live, too. I didn't want to die." The Exchanger's voice was at a ridiculously high pitch when he finally stopped. Edmond looked at him, feeling empty of most emotion. "You wouldn't have died... but you didn't know that... Edmond realized he was half talking to himself, but didn't care. "I should kill you and the other Exchanger. I should throw your scalps at the feet of the Centurion, but I am too sick of you to touch you." The Exchanger was in a pile on the cave floor, and Edmond stood over him. "What is the metal stalk on the shattered mountain?" "It's the conductor for the charge field generators inside the mountain. It holds up the field." "Why," Edmond asked, "didn't you go to it and try to wreck or turn off the generators?" He didn't listen for an answer. The Exchanger would say something about the Centurion having the food he needed and that he would have died if he hadn't gotten the food. Edmond began to shutter. He needed pellets. There were some on Jakesu's body, but he loathed to touch it. He swore at the pellets along with  the continuous mindprickling that added to the torture of frustration and advancing pain. Now was not the time to be disabled by spasms and cramps... He had to find the Centurion. A rhythmic sliding was coming down the passageway of the cave. Edmond set the reed delicately in his weapon and waited. The Judician Centurion rumbled incoherently when It saw him. Iti massive stomach, which was being pushed along on a leathery callous, bounced to a stop. "Greetings!" cried the alien, and Edmond laughed with a new hatred. The thing was completely nonhuman. Edmond retorted, ' "Is death worth greeting?" He followed the thought of the Centurion's brain when the Judician said, "I will give you anything you want. You will sit alone above all men in the world. I am strange and powerful, so I can give you all that you want -- even those little round things you need so badly. I -- " A gurgling interrupted. Edmond shot the reed at an angle through the soft belly, and reloaded the crossbow. There was a thump as he sank another shaft into it beyond sight. Without warning, Edmond was enveloped from behind. He only had time to scream once and see the face of a second Centurion looking down at him with long thin lips. The sides of the cave room dripped minerals, and were encrusted with a rainbow of colors. A syrup seemed to be flowing through Edmond's stomach. He glanced sideways at the second Centurian, which was holding some long pellet in its multi-segmented fingers and was attempting a human smile. IF Edmond recognized the pellet as one like the Exchanger in the city had swallowed and the kind of pelkt the other Exchanger had just talked about as being a hallucination inducer. Edmond was prepared when the syrupy feeling swelled and the hallucinations began... When the hallucinations passed, Edmond didn't want to think about them. They had involved death of Tinni and all men, over and over again. He realized how stupid he had been to assume the existence of only one Centurion just because the Exchanger had mentioned only one. No worse error could have been made. And within only a few hours of success. All it would have taken to open the skies and save what was left of Tinni was a quick ride in the sand foil -- it would have been easy enough to control -- and then a search of Cordaro's cave for the passageway to the generators. Only a few hours and the sky would have fallen for good. Edmond kicked himself mentally. He was too excited to become depressed, so crying was not among his plans. Plans? He had no plans! The Centurion came forward with another pellet. It held a screaming Edmond Reud down with its heavy stomach, poked him in the groin to make him open his mouth wider, and forced the "food" down his throat. Edmond sprang away, and stuck his own fingers down his throat, vomiting the pellets up. As tears rolled down his cheeks, he cried out in victory. If he could help it, he would not be addicted to another kind of pellet. For God's sake, not another habit! H is actions had stumped the Centurion. It looked so confused -- even more confused by Edmond's actions than Edmond had ever been by Judician behavior -- that Edmond almost laughed. If the alien could use pellets and hallucinations against him, he could do the same back. The Centurion sat in front of the doorway and partially closed its eyes. Edmond pretended to sleep, and almost fell asleep before the alien finally let its own lids completely shut. With a leap from the floor Edmond reached the Judician, grabbed In the August Galaxy -- Complete Short Novel Plus stories and features by James Blish  Norman L. Knight, Algis Budrys, Willy Ley, etc. Don't miss it ! the pellets from its fingers and jammed them down its throat almost to his stomach. The alien burped terribly, coughed and tried another smile: "Very fine food." Edmond could have screamed and wept. He feared for his sanity: how absurd could human logic be. If the pellets were alien food, then they wouldn't be a narcotic for the aliens, too. He wouldn't accomplish anything with warped logic, he told himself. The Centurion still sat blocking the cave-room doorway. Was it waiting for something or somebody? Edmond decided to make a play on its waiting, if that's what the Centurion was doing. He shuffled over to a bulge in the rock floor, and braced his foot against it, the squatting alien out of eyesight of the movement. The Centurion stared at him unblinkingly. Edmond tried to act nonchalant, but then caught himself again. What was nonchalant to a human wouldn't be nonchalant to an alien. Edmond allowed himself to act nervous. It wasn't hard. "Who's that!" Edmond shouted as loud as he could, and pointed abruptly through the doorway down the corridor's shadows. The alien strained its neck to see, unbalancing itself by resting on a flimsy arm. Edmond pushed off from the bulge in the floor and toppled the Centurion, mashing its face into the wall. With a kind of joy he trampled its face and neck. After an exploration of metal sticks and buttons on the sand foil, and a dash across the gorges and desert, Edmond Reud found Cordaro waiting for him at the cave. A quick greeting, and Edmond left the puzzled man as he ran into the intestines of the mountain. Edmond was awed when there was no great rumbling or bang as he pulled on the generator switch and cut off the charge field around his planet. T he beardless young man with the straw-colored hair and neat pale-blue uniform announced himself as Lieutenant Commander Charles Finglebower of Base Roquefort, which was presently orbiting Tinni, and that he had come to help Tinni recuperate from its ordeal. Edmond and Cordaro greeted him by the Minced Mountain. Edmond Reud and the Lieutenant Commander found four hours and forty-seven minutes the minimum length of time to discuss the status of things in general on Tinni and in the Universe. At the end of that time, Edmond's memory had returned to him, in all its beauty. Even the ugly events had a special beauty of presence. His head was bursting with answers to the questions he had carried with him so long. Questions about the well, which the Colonization Supervisors had dug fifty years before... the water bags the Supervisors had stocked the city with... the tops of the mountains which had IF been dark because the force field had obscured them... The Lieutenant Commander mentioned the unsuccessful attempt of volunteer Sam Cordaro to enter the charge field during the night. Edmond remembered with a familiar chill the night when it had seemed a "platform" had hit a "bird"... he remembered how he had almost eaten the savory meat scattered around. Edmond grew sick for a moment and realized he would always have a secret from his friend Richard Cordaro. Edmond finally managed a smile. "Don't worry," said Lieutenant Commander Finglebower. "We have known about the narcotic effect of the Judician food upon humans for just as long as the Judicians. Injections can be given to eradicate the addictions of the colonists. No trouble at all." Edmond felt a needle slip into his arm, and a woman -- a woman! -- in pale blue smiled at him. "I would like to do some of the injections myself," Edmond found himself saying to a surprised Lieutenant Commander Finglebower. "I'll find what men and women are left in the cities and give em the medicine. You could give me the needles and a few light shockers to calm the scalp hunters, and a little instruction for the injections..." Finglebower shrugged his shoulders and nodded, "Fine. The nurse will show you the proper procedure soon. But now I want you to meet a person who'll be very important to Tinni very soon. He's a representative of the Bureau of verse, and he wants to talk to you and Richard very much. He'll be out of the ship in a minute." Something uneasy stirred in Edmond's mind at the memory of thd grew. He remembered what the Bureau had done to other planets and men. will have a bill passed   soon as possible to make Tinni a monument," announced the Bureau representative enthusiastically. "I'll give you the details tomorship down. Each of the remaining colonists will be given a job as guide or lecturer. Both men and women. Many female tourists -- a lot of Suffrage Succeeders -- will flock here; and perhaps an artificial lake can be put In to make Tinni a real riviera. Historical, adventurous, wonderful. All adjectives describing Tinni. Can't you see the picture of it now?" "As a commercialized touristic pot," Edmond retorted. "Well, there is no dishonor in that, you know. A hundred planets are that way: they show men and women how great Mankind has been and always will be. For instance, Sasham's World..." Edmond didn't hear any more. He began to think about things that were just now returning to him... childhood. That was so long ago. The city, when people were working together. Sand being washed out of his hair and ears. Men and women making another Terra, or at least trying awfully hard. Laughter -- perhaps the greatest memory. Pride. Respect for each other, for Tinni. The Respect towered in his mind. He remembered sunsets and furry whudeys silhouetted on the deserts. Whudeys with soft humps and flattened noses nuzzling the warm sand. the sunsets became marred by shapes of a thousand starships. Some fat, some thin, some fast, some sluggish, some looking pregnant, almost in caricature of the carrying in their bowels. The animals, laughed at, teased, jabbed, penned up until Edmond's mind screamed. F rom a rather omnipotent viewing place high on Minced Mountain, Edmond Reud and Richard Cordaro watched the lone Base Roquefort ship grumble, belch and rise. Another Tinni sunset was beginning, and there was enough sunlight for Edmond to extend an imaginary hand over the boxes that the ship had left, with plans of returning the next day with surThe boxes contained shockers, canned food, water to be added to the Minced Mountain stores, needles and serum, and gleaming metal equipment to aid Tinni's renaissance. Edmond nodded the ship a thank you. He turned with a sigh to Cordaro. "There is something I remember now. It was etched on something long ago on Terra, almost like your words on the shelves. It was a question, and I wish now that I had asked it of the Bureau man: 'Is there no respect of place, persons, nor time in you?' There didn't seem to be any in the Bureau man, or in the rest of them either." Cordaro looked at him. "They should neither touch nor have Tinni, should they?" Edmond smiled. Leaning on Edmond's shoulder, Cordaro hobbled beside him, as they began a walk toward the quiet generator switch. Perhaps in a hundred generations, or whenever someone on Tinni decided to open the field again. Mankind might have Now in Worlds of Tomorrow -- Your all-time favorite science-fiction and science-fact writers are in Worlds of Tomorrow -- get it today! IF IF  Novelette Hs real business was insurance. But the goings-on in the crater had to be everybody's business! I J ohnathon Andrews was working. Two hundred credit marks a day plus expenses testified that Marine Surety Inc. sanctioned his activities and remembered him, at least on payday. Glancing at his watch, he paid the waiter and walked leisurely across the flagstone terrace behind the hotel toward Waikiki Beach. The waiter stood looking after him thoughtfully for a moment, then hurried to a small table just behind the door of the inside bar. 'Can I bring you anything else, sir?" He smiled professionally and dried the watermark under an empty glass. The large man at the table stared at him impassively but didn't answer. The waiter produced a carved swizzle stick and laid it in the center of the table. "The beach is beautiful this time of evening," the waiter said, and bustled away into the kitchen. The large man stood up, looked around the room and brushed against a solitary customer at the end of the bar as he headed out the door. The man at the bar paid no attention, but very shortly he, too, got up and walked out toward the beach. Through a slit in the shutter of a dressing cabana Johnny Andrews watched the two come single file across the terrace. They looked up and down the nearly deserted beach and then settled into solitary chairs on opposite sides of the terrace. This hunch is paying off, Johnny thought as he changed into a bathing suit. Hunches are poor substitutes for facts, but there were no facts. At least there were none to justify the expense account Marine Surety's fair-haired investigator had run up the last four days. Making a down payment on Diamond Head was hardly the conventional route of inquiry into a series of hi-jackings -- but these hijackings werehardly conventional. F irst, the sheer size of the take was like heisting the west wing of Fort Knox. Second, these robberies were happening entirely outside the atmosphere. Third, no one had any better ideas. Those two spectators on the terrace were the first indication that someone might be interested in him besides the comptroller back in the home office. Maybe he could follow them home. In any event it was now six forty five and the sight he came to see was due very soon. He left his clothes in the cabana and stepped out into the soft Hawaiian twilight. Picking a powerboard from the stack beside the cabana, he trotted down to the water. Johnny was old fashioned and basically disapproved of the cigarsized power units stuffed into most surf boards nowadays. Any overweight office manager could glide effortlessly out to where the really large rollers broke and usually found them more than he could cope with. Right now, though, a powerboard was exactly what he needed. The fading sunset had switched on a few dim stars, but most of the sky was still glowing with leftover daylight. The tide was nearly in, but the sea was so quiet that the first thousand yards were only waist deep. He flopped down onto the board and opened the finger throttle half way, heading straight out to sea away from the lights. About fifteen hundred yards out there was a shallow depression in the bottom where the tall breakers coming from over the night horizon rounded off for a moment before their last long crashing run into the hotel beaches. He stopped the board in this quiet area and twisted over onto his back to watch the northern sky. He checked his watch; two minutes still to go. IF T wo shipments in a row of highwithout a trace. Two more like that and his net assignment would be locating a cheap wholesale source of bulk red ink -- and with no expense account. Marine Surety had become the giant of commercial cargo insurance by backing long shots, but a single national budget of half the nations on the planet. Somewhere out beyond the fading twilight three more cargoes were inbound. The first one was due tonight. His watch showed the time had run down and he concentrated on the north end of the vanishing sunset. Moving slowly, two dim pinpKints of light detached themselves from the afterglow and crawled steadily up the sky growing brighter as they approached the dark zenith. Guessing right was a profession with Johnny Andrews and this trip looked like a better guess all the time. It had to be here. Out beyond the parking orbit zone a difference of a minute or so in departure time would throw the track of an interplanetary transverse trabut they all had to come down the " Pie chute to get home. This was the chute -- the only place a planned intercept really could take place. The two points of light drew closer together as they reached the top of the sky. Retrofire position to put the cargo ship into the North African docks would be about half way down the eastern sky from Hawaii, but the two points had merged long before that. That second ship had made an incredibly accurate rendezvous. At least he had a starting place now. First, get ashore and confirm with the home office that the company was about one national budget closer to bankruptcy; then find out where those two oversized oeachboys went when they weren't lounging around expensive terraces looking ominous. H e paddled the board around to point in the general direction of downtown Honolulu and used the power switch to move quietly parallel with the swells about a hundred yards to one side of the terrace. Then, staying flat on the board to keep his silhouette low, he ope ned the throttle and slid into the trough behind the biggest wave he could find. The board kicked forward leaving a froth of white water which he hoped wouldn't be too noticeable so far out. Very shortly the sea bottom began to shallow and shove the big swell up into a long curling crest of surf that thundered nearly half a mile straight in to the beach. Johnny hung on with full power, hidden right behind it. With a little kick he hoped the gallery on the terrace would still be gazing out to sea waiting for him to appear sliding grandly down the front of a wave where surf boards belong. He slid up a backwash of froth onto a stretch of beach where the dark palms grew almost down to the high tide. Just behind the first row of trees the underbrush was expensively natural. Except for an indignant couple who had bargained for a little more privacy in the shadow of a tree, he thought he was unobserved. He left the powerboard and slipped into the tangled vegetation. Nowhere in the world but Hawaii could a man parade through the bushes without clothes in solid comfort. Things that stung, bit or scratched had never been tolerated, even during the brief interlude when the early missionaries had managed to get clothes on the natives. Staying about ten feet inside the dark undergrowth he felt his way carefully back toward the terrace. Now that he was free of his watchers the next step posed a problem in etiquette. He needed to contact McComb back in the home office in Kansas City to confirm the hi-jacking he thought he'd just seen -- and those two interested parties on the terrace needed some serious attention. Knowing who they worked for could save weeks of blind stumbling. But a dripping swimsuit is a bit conspicuous after dark, even in Honolulu, II T hey . were still tliefe, sitting stolidly at each corner of the terrace. The heavy one had ordered a drink. Johnny looked him over for future reference. He weighed about # and perhaps # pounds of it was excess. Even without the fat he'd be barrel-shaped, with a neck that was a visual protest against the custom of wearing collars. Straight, light brown hair and suit to match -- Johnny couldn't get an eye color from this distance, but the layer of flesh on high cheek bones pushed them nearly out of sight anyway. The other man was thin, brunette and faced away from him. His left ear lobe was missing. Johnny moved back through the tangle of vines to the edge of the side lawn of the hotel where bogancertain the guests knew they were in Hawaii. Here, out of sight of the terrace, he marched stiffly across the lawn to the side entrance like any other newly arrived malahini determined to go native comfortably. Ten minutes later with dry clothes on, the situation appeared much less complex. It's remarkable how a pair of trousers increases a man's self-confidence, he reflected on the way back down the elevator. Simply get a video tape of these two gentlemen and transmit it to the home office. From then on help could be as close as the nearest police station in case he lost them. He stopped at the terrace bar for some sort of unpronounceable concoction served in a bulky coconut shell. Then he sauntered out onto the terrace holding a pocket-sized tape-camera behind the drink. This was too easy. Just sit down, lean back, take a healthy sip pointed toward each one and they'd be recorded for posterity. The first sip was the longest. He had cautiously avoided looking IF around before he sat down and aiming for the sknny one he got a long picture of an empty chair. He glanced quickly at the other corner. T he big man was still there. He knew the eye color now. So light gray they were almost white, they stared impassively at his peculiar method of holding a coconut shell. Johnny had two more gulps than he intended before he could get the glass down. Now what? he thought. If he didn't see the camera, it's his turn next. If he did see it, there's nothing to lose, so it's still his turn next He looked blandly around the terrace and then aimed a healthy pull on the coconut shell at White Eyes. By now the terrace had taken on a misty, unreal appearance that probably had something to do with his hurried draughts from that coconut. He'd watched the bartender insert two kinds of rum, some vodka, raw coconut milk and crushed pineapple and hadn't seriously intended to drink the thing. He heaved himself to his re!u'.nt feet and ambled across the terrace. There was a not-so-cleverly disguised phone booth near the beach cabanas In the shape of a miniature polynesean temple, from which he could still see the terrace while he called McComb. Moving around made him feel a little better as he left the lighted terrace to enter the phone-temple from the beach side. It opened on the water so the customers got the full benefit of the Waikiki surf background roar when they called back home. He inserted the tape magazine from his camera into the videophone recepticle and turned off the light in the booth in order to see the terrace better. White Eyes had turned around and was looking down across the darkened beach. "I wonder where his skinny partner went?" he said to himself as he started dialing. He found out between the fourth and fifth digits. There was a glimpse of rapid motion just behind him and to one side. He whirled directly into a small but thoroughly professional leather sap laid just above his left ear. The last thing he remembered was wondering inanely how this guy lost his left ear lobe when he was obviously left-handed. T he bartender looked up and shook his head in rueful professional pride as he watched his latest Muana Loa Special customer being helped by two friends as he stumbled across the terrace toward the side lawn of the hotel. He signaled a busboy to go out and retrieve the coconut shell. Johnny had a hard head, but was realistic enough to sit quietly and let it throb when things came back into focus. He was wedged into a tubecar seat designed for two between White Eyes and Lefty. As his vision cleared slowly, he felt the gentle jostle of the capsule-like car as it sped along an airless steel tube a thousand feet below the surface of the Pacific. IF Judging from the advertisements around the walls this was one of the inter-island locals that fed commuters and money into Oahu from ah the surrounding islands. Wherever they were headed he didn't have much time because these vacuum cars shot all the way to the last island in the chain in less than twenty minutes. He began slowly raising a hand to feel his head, but the big man beside him fastened a paw on his arm that felt like a steel claw. Lefty also shifted his weight warningly and he subsided to look around the car. They were at the rear. It was nearly empty. The commuter rush was over and people in town for the evening were still there. Well, he'd wanted to know where they lived. "Are you gentlemen always so attentive to lonely tourists?" he ventured. "We'll talk later, Mr. Andrews," White Eyes rumbled. His voice had a gurgling quality that left the impression that he didn't use it very often. His big hand tightened again on Johnny's arm in a way that left the impression that he used it a lot. The cdr began slowing and two or three of the passengers stood up and started back toward the exit at the rear. Johnny and his escort sat quietly until the car stopped, but when the last passenger was out he was hurried to his feet and out onto the platform just before the door hissed shut. The last of the passengers was disappearing up an three of them crossed the deserted platform to follow. T he street at the top was not much better. Wailuku may be the "capital" of the island of Maui, but things get pretty quiet in a farm community when the sun goes down. No traffic was moving. They started down the street toward the only sign of life, a forlorn establishment with a single car parked in front. The lighted sign dangling precariously across the sidewalk read, "Fenner's Grill". "Want me to drive?" Lefty said as they approached the car. "It talks!" exclaimed Johnny, and then winced from the increased pressure on his left arm from that vice-like hand. His fingers were beginning to numb. "I'll do it," White Eyes said. "Get in the back and lay him out again if he moves a muscle." They were in front of the little restaurant now and Lefty opened the back door of the car. Lettering from the last half of a gold sign on the side of the car could be seen on the front door as White Eyes relaxed his grip to reach for the car door. Johnny's arm sagged helplessly, but the other one was still intact. It's now or nothing, he thought, and drove his good right arm into Lefty's midsection about two inches past the waist. He felt White Eyes clutch at his coat and miss as he whirled away and dove for the door to "Fenner's Grill". Leaning against the door from the inside he tried to remember whether ftere was a special phrase rtiedieval fugitives were supposed to use to claim sanctuary in a cathedral. A mall round Chinese bartender sat behind a tiny bar on one side of the room still holding the paper he'd been reading. "How about a beer," Johnny said finally, nothing else coming to mind. Outside, he heard the car start and looked back as he walked over to the bar stool. It was a station wagon, he could see now, with a symbol consisting of two concentric circles painted on the side. White Eyes was driving with Lefty slumped down in the back seat. As they pulled away gold letters reading "Crater Ranch" flashed briefly over the symbol in the light of Fenner's sign. Ill # C A re you from the Crater?" asked the bartender handing him a glass. His stiff hair was crew cut to a gray stubble and a heavy un-Chinese beard threatened to westernize his clean shaven plump cheeks. "No, I'm here on a vacation," Johnny sighed as he sat down and began rubbing some circulation back into his left arm. "What's the Crater?"  "In that case you've found the best Mexican food in the islands. The second booth is empty," the bartender beamed. All of the tables were inclosed in booths with walls clear to the ceiling Chinese style with curtains across the front. "Thanks -- just the beer, ' Johnny said. All the booths were probably empty; not just the second one. The place was quiet as a desert. "What's the Crater?" "We don't often get tourists. Ihey hang around Honolulu and Oahu and never see the real Hawaii," the little bartender pressed a button behind the counter and an even rounder, almond-eyed girl came scuttling from a back room with a clean table cloth and utensils. "I'm not hungry nowl" Johnny protested still rubbing nis arm. "What's the Crater?" "Oh, just a cattle ranch. Did you know the mountain valley you can see right out that window is where it rains two hundred inches a year? There's not any decent Mexican food in Honolulu, you know." "Where is it?" "Right in the second booth. Carlotta's bringing your Ming tea. It's our specialty with chalupas and..." "The cattle ranch. Where's the cattle ranch? I really couldn't eat a thing." "Carlotta, just bring some tostados to the bar, then," the bartender sighed and opened another beer -- apparently for himself. "Haleak.ala." "Cheers. Where's the ranch?" "That's where it is -- Ha-ie-a-kala. That's the name of the mountain. Most of my customers are local -- a few commuters and lately that crowd from the Crater. Straight across out the front door you can see part of Molokai Island. There's one place there you can see nearly fifty waterfalls at the same time coming down the side of a three thousand foot cliff." IF "Then the Crater's new," Johnny tried again. #h no, that's where the whole island of Maui came from. Haleakala's a volcano." "I mean the ranch." "Well, the Haleakala crater's been used to graze cattle over a hundred years. It's the biggest volcanic crater in the world about twenty miles across. It's extinct. You can see it right out the kitchen window. Most tourists get sunburned at Waikiki and take a ride over the Pali and think they've seen the islands. You can't get up there now, though." "To the crater, you mean." "That's right. Some big outfit leased it last summer and put up a gate house on the only road up the mountain. It's hard to see how they're going to make any money, though. They've hauled almost as many people up there as they have cattle." Johnny almost congratulated him. It wasn't any harder than extracting a tooth, he thought. Aloud he asked, "Is there a phone booth around?" "Yes sir. The first booth is a phone booth. The second one is set up for your dinner whenever you're ready. Try a tostado while I get you another beer." "Thanks," Johnny said, too spent to argue. He took his first beer, still full, and went over to the first booth. Behind the curtains was the glass door of an oversize videophone set-up complete with a chair and small table. He dialed McComb, wincing instinctively between the fourth and fifth digits. There was a tapping at the glass as McComb's face appeared on the screen and looked past his shoulder with skeptical disapproval. The little Chinese was still talking on the other side of the soundproof glass brandishing the plate of tostados. "Just a minute, Mac," Johnny said and opened the door. "You forgot your tostados," the bartender said. "TeU your friend on Maui it's Fenner's." "Thank you, he... " but the door was closed and the curtains pulled shut. #Tt's nice to see a man enX joying his last fling," McComb said drily. "You wouldn't believe it anyway." "We just lost another ship." "I know -- I watched." "From there?" "Mac, it has to be from here. There's no other place they could make an intercept. Could you see anything on the screen?" "Maybe. There were some scattered static returns just behind the ship right after it came into range that could have been a merging ship. Anyway it went right by without firing the retro rockets just like the others." "Where is it now?" "Vanished. Once they're out of orbit they're gone unless they answer a radio call." McComb looked defeated. "That's exactly why I'm sure someone's controlling an intercept from here. This is the only place where a returning ship has to pass through part of a predictable earth orbit in order to hit the dock area. You can't get into the garage without using the driveway. This is the driveway." "Well, did you call me to recommend the tostados?" "They're made of poi. We need a check on a skinny black-haired guy about # with a missing left ear lobe. He's working with a heavy, brown-haired partner -- very light gray eyes." "Not much to go on. How about a picture?" "I had one but your phone number's too long." McComb looked as if he were about to switch off so Johnny hurried to fill him in on the past two hours' activity. "... so I mean to stay right here until you can round up a sheriff's posse to escort me up to this 'Crater Ranch'," Johnny finished. "It won't work," McComb said. "If it doesn't, I won't work either." # # Tohnny, you wouldn't look J natural without a fresh lump on your head. The police will agree with them. It's no crime to take pity on a passing drunk. Besides, if there is anything to your idea, you won't find it by parading through the gate with a carload of local police." "Maybe they know a side door." His sore arm hurt when he tried to feel his sore head with it. "I'll pass this on to the United Control Authority but they're in such a flap right now it'll be days before they can get around to it unless we can give them something more definite," McComb said. "I know it," Johnny sighed. Evidence, nailed down and documented, is what it would take to get the powerful forces of the United Government moving. "Let me know when you have something," McComb said. "I'll be here at least all night. Where're you going now?" "To the next booth. Carlotta's impatient." "Who?" "It may be noon in Kansas, Mac, but the Hawaiian moon is on the Maui surf. I'll check back with you before midnight your time." McComb looked resigned and was already reaching for another phone connection when Johnny switched off. "Why not try a squid taco with your beer?" said the bartender as Johnny disentangled himself from the curtains. "No thanks. Where can I rent a car?" "Oh, you won't need to. This is the taxi stand. My cousin, Enrico's out on a long run now though. You have plenty of time for dinner." "I should have guessed," Johnny said. "Did you say squid?" "Sure. Carlotta makes them. She says she gets tired of beef." "Maybe I'd better have that dinner now." It seemed the only way out. Carlotta popped through the swinging half-door from the kitchen like an animated beach ball and opened the curtains and door to IF booth Dimiber two. The food was not really as bad as he had feared, although he skipped the tacos. Several attempts to elicit information from Carlotta on a variety of subjects from the Crater Ranch to a shrimp tail protruding from his enchalada resulted only in paroxysms of giggles. F inally the bartender came over and offered helpfully, "Carlotta was raised the old way, you know. She never learned English until she was twelve and still doesn't speak it very well. We Portugese value tradition -- she'll make some one a fine wife." More titters from the kitchen. "Portugese!" "Sure. This latin cuisine doesn't come from a can." "I knew the blood lines had mixed out here," said Johnny, watching the girl clearing the table blushing round and pink. She squeaked another stifled giggle and the dancing eyes all but disappeared in two slanted slits. "I guess I should have noticed the name." "Yes sir, mine's Manuel." He set a milk-colored liqueur on the table. Johnny examined the glass dubiously. He needed someone fast who knew the island intimately and this irregular little oriental at least had the advantage of being available. Aloud he said, "A latin accent can be very attractive in a girl." Another choked shriek came from the kitchen and even Manuel looked surprised. "Oh no. Like all Fenner ladies for generations Carlotta was taught only Hawaiian." "Like you said, most tourists never get to see the real Hawaii," Johnny said. "When will the taxi be back?" "Enrico had a fare to a little town on the other side of the island and there's only the coast road because you can't go over the mountain. Another two hours, maybe." "You must make captives of quite a few customers then." "Oh no!" Manuel looked really distressed seeing the reputation of his "real" Hawaii at stake. "I only have the delivery truck parked around back, but I'll be glad to take you to our hotel." Johnny considered a moment and leaned across the table. "Manuel, I'll give you the price of a new delivery truck if you can get me onto the Crater Ranch." M anuel's oblong eyes seemed to tilt a little more. "I have a delivery to make there tomorrow. My cousin has a food store..." "I mean now." "Tonight?" "You can pick out the truck." He finally had Manuel's total attention. The little bartender picked up a towel and slowly wiped the already spotless bartop. He inspected a clean glass and set it back on the shelf. "I got a cousin who has a car agency in Honolulu..." "Fine, we'll get the best truck he has -- custom-made if you like." "You know somebody up at the Crater?" asked Manuel, watching Johnny intently. "I just met a couple of guys from there today in Honolulu. I want to surprise them." "Carlotta," Manuel called over hk shoulder still looking at Johnny. "I have to make a delivery. If any customers come in just serve them ar)d be pleasant." 'She will," said Johnny and an answering squeak floated back from the kitchen. IV A full moon flooded the island with twilight as they bounced out of the town in a little boxshaped truck with "Fenner's Fine Foods" in faded red letters on the side. Johnny had been prepared for more sales resistance from the little Chinese, but Manuel had not said a word since he told Carlotta they were leaving. The enormous bulk of the mountain filled the sky ahead as they left the trees of the town behind and rolled through the flat sugar cane fields that filled the sea-level plains. The road sloped upward like a giant ski-jump, but the pitch here was so gradual that it was perceptible only from the laboring truck engine. After a few miles the cane and the climate switched abruptly. The air was cooler and row after endless rov of squat pineapple plants stretched away in all directions. Now Johnny could see the whole island outlined with a necklace of lights around the water's edge. The cane fields and beach made a base barely large enough to hold Haleakala looming above them. After the pineapple fields, a few scraggly trees appeared that quickly gave way to low bushes and grassland, as the pitch of the slope steepened and the road began to wind. It was already uncomfortably cool when they hit a layer erf scattered clouds about two thirds of the way up. Before coming out the top of the cloud, Manuel switched off the lights and slowed to a blind crawl. "Where are we?" Johnny asked. "The gate house is about ten miles ahead, but from here on cattle trails go all around the mountain. The floor of the crater is good grazing land, but no grass grows at the rim; so cattle inside never try to get out. There's a trail along here somewhere that'll take us up to the rim about half way around. You'll have to walk from there, though." They came out of the cloud and the road stretched away bright again in the moonlight. After a few hundred yards, Manuel turned suddenly through the shallow ditch and bound off across an open field broken here and there by huge boulders that towered over the truck. "I don't see any trail," shouted Johnny over the rattle. He clutched at the side of the cab to stay in his seat. "Oh sure. Lived here all my life. We used to camp up here when we were kids. Just ken more minutes." T wenty minutes later the truck bumped to a stop against an outcropping of rock and black lava IF tc attempt. The truck sighed and wheezed gently as he shut off the engine. "Oh well, you're getting me a new one," said Manuel with satisfaction. "Come on," and he got out and started up the lava flow. "Manuel," Johnny hung back. "This is as far as you go. You must have gathered I'm not an invited guest here." "But we're not there yet." The little Chinese stopped and looked back. "This is close enough. Here's your new delivery truck," Johnny said and held out a note he'd scribbled to McComb. Manuel scrambled back down the rocks and held the note close to read in the moonlight. He looked back at the rim of the crater once or twice and again at Johnny. "Who's McComb?" he finally said. "He's an official in the company I work for. That note will make sure your truck goes on my expense account." "Mr. Andrews, I know those two 'cowboys' you left in front of my place. I got a plate glass window, you know. They've been in before. Even Carlotta stays quiet. They wouldn't know a steer from a walleyed fence post." "If you were watching, why'd you'd come up here? Doesn't Wailuku have any police?" "Sure, my cousin Roberto. I'll tell him about it tomorrow. Anyway, all I saw was you folding up that skinny guy and by me that's a public service." 'Listen, that big man is no sct touch, Manuel. If you're caught up here with me, you could end up actually looking Portugese. I only want to see what kind of ranch gets hidden on top of a mountain with more people than cattle." "I am Portugese." Manuel paused and looked back past the jutting boulders at the ring of lights around Maui that twinkled up through the scattered cloud layer. "Mr. Andrews," he said finally, "this is my island. We've been here since # when an Irish ancestor was forced to leave Macao hurriedly. Now four months ago these people just move in, put up gate houses, keep us out of our crater because they say they want to keep their breed pure. Why, this is the only place around here you can get away from that blasted Hawaiian eternal springtime! I'm curious, too." M anuel slipped the note into his pocket with an air of finality and addressed himself again to the tumbled rocks. His shape appeared designed to portray, one of those small oriental gods of happiness in a spring pageant; but he bounced up the rocks like a basketball and Johnny was scrambling to keep up. They reached the narrow rim without warning and Johnny was not prepared for the sheer size of the view. The slick black lava fell away steeply from their feet but soon became grass as the curve of the gigantic bowl flattened out into a vast meadow broken here and there by dark house-sized cinder cones; mute ghosts of the last anIF cient dying breaths of the long dead volcano. Gleaming sparsely under the rim to their left, a lonely cluster of lights outlined the main ranch house. A few head of cattle huddled dark and motionless directly below them. "See. The cattle can't cross the pahoehoe," Manuel said. "That ought to keep the breed pure." "Of course." "Manuel, I just happen to know 'pahoehoe' is slick lava, not a vow of celibacy. Skip the travelogue and let's get closer." They slid down the hard pahoehoe and started across the grass toward the distant lights. As they moved through some scattered cattle, Johnny noticed that two had lost most of the hair on one side as though from a radiation burn. About a hundred yards from the lighted compound they were stopped by a huge slab of concrete rising waist high from the ground and extending nearly to the compound. It was painted a dark color they couldn't identify in the moonlight and hadn't been noticeable until they walked up to it. Part way down the length of the slab sat a large pile of cinders looking pretty much like the rest of the cinder cones scattered over the valley floor. "They over-did the lanai," Johnny said. "Was this here before?" "I don't remember it. The shipping corral used to be along here." T hey moved quietly along the smooth concrete closer to the ranch buildings. About the center of the slab a series of heavy conduits extended from the edge and disappeared into the ground. At the end nearest the ranch house the earth was dug away to a depth of about ten feet, but the concrete apparently extended deeper than that. Near one corner of this pit some steps led down to a door in the end of the slab. Johnny paused part way down the steps where they could still see the ranch buildings, their eyes level with the top step. "All asleep," muttered Manuel after a moment. The heavy steel door was held shut by a sliding latch bar but had no lock and opened easily when Johnny tried it. They entered an enormous corridor nearly the length of a football field, dimly lit from panels in the ceiling. The set-up was about what Johnny had expected to find somewhere around the islands, but infinitely larger than anything he had ever heard of. "What is it?" asked Manuel eyeing the rows of control panels with glowing jewel lights that stretched almost out of sight. "This is how you de-rail a space ship, my Latin friend. It's the grandaddy of all radars. Those pipes we saw coming out of the slab must lead to an antenna laid along the ground. This whole crater is a giant, dish-shaped radar antenna! It's so big they're using an atomic pile for power. You ever heard of Marine Surety Incorporated?" "No, I already got insurance. My cousin..." "No matter, no matter. How "Sure. It's been in all the news for weeks. There was another one tonight." Manuel looked apprehensive. "That what this is?" "That's exactly what this is." Johnny walked along to the main panel in the center of the corridor. "This monster ought to generate a pulse big enough to overpower a servosignal five hundred miles away -- and the ships are only about a hundred miles up when they come over here on the way in." "I'm not as curious as I was." Manuel edged toward the door. "Jus: a minute. I'll leave a calling card." He studied the rows of switches for a moment and then activated the main radar power-on toggle. The power indicator dial next to it stayed dead on zero. "I thought you only came to look," Manuel said over his shoulder. "Yes, I'm coming." Johnny lingered at the big central control panel. Manuel was right. He did have what he came for. But Marine Surety didn't pay salaries like his just for information. Besides, there was only one more step. Along the top of the control panel lay a row of positioning knobs glowing .with dull ferocity in the dim light. The row was labeled "Neutron Supress" and the pointer on each knob was turned to "Positive Insert". Johnny turned one toward "Extract" and a rumbling buzz began under their feet. "This ought to do it," he said and quickly flipped all the knobs over to full "Extract". "Let's do it outside, then," said Manuel already at the door by then. "We should have at Icist ten minutes before anything goes," Johnny said stepping through the door after him. V I than that," said a familiarly hoarse voice from the top of the steps. White Eyes stepped back from the center of the walk where he'd been standing and the moonlight glinted off the snout of a small hand gun almost lost in his over-sized fist. "Come on up." It sounded almost hospitable. Johnny followed the small Chinese up the steps with the unhappy calculation that the two of them added together would not quite equal the big man even without the gun. "How'd you get here, anyway?" White Eyes asked as they reached the top. "Over the pahoehoe," Johnny said indicating the center of the crater with his thumb. "The what?" White Eyes glanced out across the crater. By now they were in front of him. White Eyes was still looking across the moonlit crater from the top of the steps. Suddenly a rumble sounded through the open door they had just left. Reacting fast, Manuel's almond eyes seemed to grow round with fear, and he screamed toward IF an imaginary ally, "Run Roberto!" In spile of himself the big man turned and Johnny was in the air. He planted both feet on the man's left kidney and snapped his legs straight. It felt like kicking a tree, but White Eyes was on his way down the steps as Johnny landed rolling. It wasn't much of a head start, but it was enough. Johnny looked for Manuel and found him out in front already rounding the corner of the slab. By the time Johnny drew even with him they had left the slab behind and were racing across the floor of the crater...can't outrun... nuclear blast!" Manuel panted... won't explode... just heat," Johnny began to draw ahead. "... then... what's the hurry?" "... we're on... antenna... high power... before burns out... just run!" T hey raced through the motionless cattle, leaving small flurries of startled activity. Glancing back, Johnny caught the flash of headlights turning through the trees around the ranch house and shortly the hum 'of an automobile engine made a background to their pounding feet. The car zigzagged in their general direction avoiding livestock and probing with the thin white finger of a spotlight. Johnny, his breath coming now in long gasps was surprised to find Manuel still keeping up. The spotlight flashed across their backs, paused and snapped back to flood them with wavering splashing light as the car bounced around to head toward them. Wild arm and leg shadows leapt crazily ahead across the grass until they stabilized in silhouettes against the sharply rising pahoehoe. Only a few steps more. A sharp snapping sound at his car and splinters of lava erupted from beside his shadow up ahead. Now nearly all the shadow climbed up on the wall of lava as they got closer. He drove his aching legs with all the strength he had left and watched the ridiculous shadowdance on the wall like a soldier running in place and getting nowhere. Another snap near his head and more lava shattered. The rapid tempo of Manuel's drumming feet behind him increased even higher. Manuel took shorter steps but, seeming to have an inexhaustible supply of them, he went by like a motorboat. The pahoehoe here was cut by deep clefts; and they flung themselves like flying rag dolls into the darkest one. Suddenly the hum of the car engine stopped. Johnny heard shouts and tried desperately to control his gasping breath enough to hear the words. Manuel lay propped on one arm. "Let's go," he wheezed. "No, wait. I think it's coming!" Johnny said. "Well, I don't want it. Let's go," and Manuel started crawling up the crevice. "I mean we made it. Look!" Johnny was peering back over the edge of the pahoehoe. T he lights were out now on the car where it had stopped about a hundred yards away, shining black in the moonlight. Across the great bowl of the crater stretching away out of sight in the misty darkness wisps of smoke were beginning to appear making regular twenty foot squares as the grass charred black and here and there licked into flame. "But it's extinct!" Manuel cried. "That isn't the volcano -- it's, the antenna! I told you the wh! crater is an enormous radar antenna. They just laid cables under the grass. It already had the right shape." "I never saw a radar antenna do that." "You never saw one get that much power. We left that nuclear pile out of control and going wild," There was a flash from the car and bits of flying pahoehoe showered over them. The doors opened and two figures piled out. Johnny and Manuel ducked. Ihey heard a scream that died away quickly as if the screamer had lost interest part way through. No more shots. Johnny tried another cautious look and saw why. Now the black lines had all turned red and gave off a bluish glow. In the eerie light the two figures from the car lay scattered about halfway between the wall and the car. One lay where he had fallen across a cable and the red line of the cable appeared solidly unbroken where his chest had been. The other had dragged himself into the middle of a square; but his legs were ten feet away on the other side of the fiery red line. A heavy rumble came from the concrete slab which split open with a burst of smoke as they watched. Instantly the glowing checkerboard of the crater went dark. They crawled up the cleft in the wall keeping as much pahoehoe as possible between them and the crater, Johnny having begun to wonder how much radiation they might have picked up from the antenna display even before the power plant blew. "The company will kick through with a lot more than just a delivery truck for this night, Manuel," Johnny said as they bumped back down the mountain. The old truck sagged a bit more than it had, but it ran rather well downhill. "Oh, it wasn't for money. You're just lucky you happened onto me. My cousin Renaldo says in the old days I should have been a sailor. Maybe I ought to go into space. Renaldo says I'm just the adventurous type." Johnny sighed, 'Probably it's      IF IF  Short Story Patron of the Arts The Berserkers loathed life -- but life had the power of doing them one unduplicable service! A fter some hours' work, Herron found himself hungry, and over what he had just done, he could easily imagine one of the sycophantic critics praising it: A huge canvas, of discordant and brutal line, aflame with a sense of engulfing menace! And for once, Herron thought, the critic might be praising something good. Turning away from his view of easel and blank bulkhead, Herron found that his captor had moved up silently to stand only an arm's length behind him, for all the world like some human kibitzer. He had to chuckle. 'T suppose you've some idiotic suggestion to make?" The roughly man-shaped machine said nothing, though it had what might be a speaker mounted on what might be a face. Herron shrugged and walked around it, going forward in search of the galley. This ship had been only a few hours out from Earth on C-plus drive when the berserker machine had run it down and captured it; and Piers Herron, the only passenger, had not yet had time to learn his way around. It was more than a galley, he saw when he reached it -- it was meant to be a place where arty colonial ladies could sit and twitter over tea when they grew weary of staring at pictures. The Franz Hals had been built as a traveling museum; then the war of life against berserker machine had grown hot around Sol, and BuCulture had ineptly decided that Earth's art treasures would be safer if shipped away to Tau Epsilon. The Franz was ideally suited for such a mission, and for almost nothing else. Looking further forward from the entrance to the galley, Heiron could see that the door to the crew compartment had been battered down, but he did not go to look inside. Not that it would bother him to look, he told himself; he was as indifferent to horror as he was to almost all other human things. The Franz's crew of two were in there, or what was left of them after they had tried to fight off the berserker's boarding machines. Doubtless they had preferred death to capture. Herron preferred nothing. Now he was probably the only living being -- apart from a few bacteria -- within half a light year; and he was pleased to discover that his situation did not terrify him, that his long-growing weariness of life was not just a pose to fool himself. H is metal captor followed him into the galley, watching while he set the kitchen devices to work. "Still no suggestions?" Herron asked it. "Maybe you're smarter than I thought." "I am what rtien call a berserker," the man-shaped thing said to him suddenly, in a squeaky, ineffectualsounding voice. "I have captured your ship, and I will talk with you through this small machine you see. Do you grasp my meaning?" "I understand as well as I need to." He knew his captor was an utterly alien and inanimate thing, built in some segment of time and space beyond human ken, built to fight in some ancient war between races who had never heard of Earth, and who perhaps were long dead themselves. Now the berserker machines' war was against all the life of the galaxy. Herron had not yet seen the berserker itself but he knew it would be a sphere the size of a planetoid, now a few miles away, or perhaps a few hundred or a thousand miles, from the ship it had captured. Captain Hanus had tried desperately to escape it, diving the Franz into a cloud of dark nebula where no ship or machine could move faster than light, and where the advantage in speed lay with the smaller hull. The chase had been at speeds up to a thousand miles a second. Forced to remain in normal space, the berserker could not steer its bulk among the meteoroids and gas-wisps as well as the Franz's radar-computer system could maneuver the fleeing ship. But the berserker had sent an armed launch of its own to take up the chase, and the weaponless Franz had had no chance. Now, dishes of food, hot and cold, popped out on a galley table, and Herron bowed to the machine. "Will you join me?" "I need no organic food." Herron sat down with a sigh. "In the end," he told the machine, "you'll find that lack of humor is as pointless as laughter. Wait and see if I'm not right." He began to eat, and found himself not so hungry as he had thought. Evidently his body still feared death -- this surprised him a little. "Do you normally function in the IF operation of this ip?" the machine asked. "No," he said, making himself chew and swallow. "I'm not much good at pushing buttons." A peculiar thing that had happened was nagging at Herron. When capture was only minutes away, Captain Hanus had come dashing aft from the control room, grabbing Herron and dragging him along in a tearing hurry, aft past all the stored art treasures. "Herron, listen -- if we don't make it, see here?" Tooling open a double hatch in the stern compartment, the captain had pointed into what looked like a short padded tunnel, the diameter of a large drain pipe. "The regular lifeboat won't get away, but this might." "Are you waiting for the Second Officer, Captain, or leaving us now?" "There's room for only one, you fool, and I'm not the one who's going." "You mean to save me? Captain, I'm touched!" Herron laughed, easily and naturally. "But don't put yourself out." "You idiot. Can I trust you?" Hanus lunged into the boat, his hands flying over its controls. Then he backed out, glaring like a madman. "Listen. Look here. This button is the activator; now I've set things up so the boat should come out in the main shipping lanes and start sending a distress signal. Chances are she'll be picked up safely then. Now the controls are set, only this activator button needs to be pushed down -- " The berserker's launch had attacked at that moment, with a roar like mountains falling on the hull of the ship. The lights and the artificial gravity had failed and then come abruptly back. Piers Herron had been thrown on his side, his wind knocked out. He had watched while the Captain, regaining his feet and moving like a man in a' daze, had closed the hatch on the mysterious little boat again and staggered forward toward his control room. #C'llhy are you here?" the ma V chine asked Herron. He dropped the forkful of food he had been staring at. He didn't have to hesitate before answering the question. "Do you know what BuCulture is? They're the fools in charge of Art, on Earth. Some of them, like a lot of other fools, think I'm a great painter. They worship me. When I said I wanted to leave Earth on this ship, they made it possible. "I wanted to leave because almost everything that is worthwhile in any true sense is being removed from Earth. A good part of it is on this ship. What's left behind on the planet is only a swarm of animals, breeding and dying, fighting -- " he paused. "Why did you not try to fight or to hide when my machines boarded this ship?" "Because it would have done no good." When the berserker's prize crew had forced their way in through an airlock, Herron had been setting up his easel in what was to have been a small exhibition hall, and he had paused to watch the uninvited visitors file past. One of the manshaped metal things, the one through which he was being questioned now, had stayed to stare at him through its lenses while the others had moved on forward to the crew compartment. "Herron!" the intercom had shouted. "Try, Herron, please! You know what to do!" Clanging noises followed, and gunshots and curses. What to do, Captain? Why, yes. The shock of events and the promise of imminent death had stirred up some kind of life in Piers Herron. He looked with interest at the alien captor, the inhuman cold of deep space frosting over its metal here in the warm cabin. Then he turned away from it and began to paint the berserker, trying to catch not the outward shape he had never seen, but what he felt of its inwardness. He felt the emotionless deadlines of its watching lenses boring into his back. The sensation was faintly pleasurable, like cold spring sunshine.   asked Herron, standing over him in the galley while he tried to eat. He snorted. "You tell me." It took him literally. "To serve the cause of what men call death is good. To destroy life is good." Herron pushed his nearly full plate into a disposal slot and stood up. "You're almost right -- but even if you were entirely right, why so enthusiastic? What is there praiseworthy about death?" Now his thoughts surprised him as his lack of appetite had. "I am entirely right," said the machine. For long seconds Herron stood still, as if thinking, though his mind was almost entirely blank. "No," he said finally, and waited for a bolt to strike him. "In what do you think I am wrong?" it asked. "ni show you." He led it out of the galley, his hands sweating and his mouth dry. Why wouldn't the damned thing kill him and have done? The paintings were racked row on row and tier on tier; there was no room in the ship for more than a few to be displayed in a conventional way. Herron found the drawer he wanted and pulled it open so the portrait inside swung into full view, lights springing on around it to bring out the rich colors beneath the twentieth century statglass coating. "This is where you're wrong," Herron said. The man-shaped thing's scanner studied the portrait for perhaps fifteen seconds. "Explain what you are showing me," it said. "I bow to you!" Herron did so. "You admit ignorance! You even ask an intelligible question, if one that is somewhat too broad. Explain, you say. First, tell me what you see here." "I see the image of a life-unit, its third spatial dimension of negligible size as compared to the other two. The image is sealed inside a IF liiViSEaBfi protective jacket transparent to the wavelengths used by the human eye. The life-unit imaged is, or was, an adult male apparently in good functional condition, garmented in a manner I have not seen before. What I take to be one garment is held before him -- " "You see a man with a glove," Herron cut in, wearying of his bitter game. "That is the title, Man With A Glove. Now what do you say it means?" There was a pause of twenty seconds. "Is it an attempt to praise life, to say that life is good?" L ooking now at Titian's eight hundred year old more-thanmasterpiece, Herron for the moment hardly heard what the machine was saying; he was thinking helplessly and hopelessly of his own most recent work. "Now you will tell me what it means," said the machine without emphasis. Herron walked away without answering, leaving the drawer open. The berserker's mouthpiece walked at his side. "Tell me what it means or you will be punished." "Tf you can pause to think, so can I." #ut Herron's stomach had knotted up at the threat of punishment, seeming to feel that pain mattered eyen more than death. Herron had great contempt for his stomach. His feet took him back to his easel. Looking at the discordant and brutal line that a few minutes ago had pleased him, he now found it IS disgusting as everything else he had tried to do in the past year. # The berserker asked: "What have you made here?" Herron picked up a brush he had forgotten to clean, and wiped at it irritably. "It is my attempt to get at your essence, to capture you with paint and canvas as you have seen those humans captured." He waved at the storage racks. "My attempt has failed, as most do." There was another pause, which Herron did not try to time. "An attempt to praise me?" Herron broke the spoiled brush and threw it down. "Call it what you like." This time the pause was short, and at its end the machine did not speak, but turned away and walked in the direction of the airlock. Some of its fellows clanked past to join it. From the direction of the airlock there began to come sounds like those of heavy metal being worked and hammered. The interrogation seemed to be over for the time being. Herron's thoughts wanted to be anywhere but on his work or on his fate, and they returned to what Hanus had shown him, or tried to show him. Not a regular lifeboat, but she might gel away, the captain had said. All it needs now is to press the button. Herron started walking, smiling faintly as he realized that if this berserker was as careless as it seemed, he might possibly escape it. Escape to what? He couldn't paint any more, if he ever could. All that really mattered to him now IF was here, and on other ships leaving Earth. Back at the storage rack, Herron swung the Man With A Glove out so its case came free from the rack and became a handy cart. He wheeled the portrait aft. There might yet be one worthwhile thing he could do with his life. T he picture was massive in its statglass shielding, but he thought he could fit it into the boat. As an itch might nag a dying man, the question of what the captain had been intending with the boat nagged Herron. Hanus hadn't seemed worried about Herron's fate, but instead had spoken of trusting Herron... Nearing the stern, unwatched by the machines, Herron passed a strapped-down stack of crated statuary, and heard a noise, a rapid feeble pounding. It took several minutes to find and open the proper case. When he lifted the lid with its padded lining, a girl wearing a coverall sat up, her hair all wild as if standing in terror. "Are they gone?" She had bitten at her fingers and nails until they were bleeding. When he didn't answer at once, she repeated her question again and again, in a rising whine. "The machines are still here," he said at last. Literally shaking in her fear, she climbed out of the case. "Where's Gus? Have they taken him?" "Gus?" But he thought he was beginning to understand. "Gus Hanus, the captain. He and I are -- he was trying to save me, to get me away from Earth." "I'm quite sure he's dead," said Herron. "He fought the machines." Her bleeding fingers clutched at her lower face. "They'll kill us, too. Or worse! What can we do?" "Don't mourn your lover so deeply," he said. But the girl seemed not to hear him; her wild eyes looked this way and that, expecting the machines. "Help me with this picture," he told her calmly. "Hold the door there for me." She obeyed as if half-hypnotized, not questioning what he was doing. "Gus said there'd be a boat," she muttered to herself. "If he had to smuggle me down to Tau Epsilon he was going to use a special little boat -- " She broke off, staring at Herron, afraid that he had heard her and would steal her boat. As indeed he was going to do. When he had the painting in the stern compartment, he stopped. He looked long at the Man With A Glove, but in the end all he could seem to see was that the fingertips of the ungloved hand were not bitten bloody. Herron took the shivering girl by the arm and pushed her into the tiny boat. She huddled there in her dazed terror; she was not goodlooking. He wondered what Hanus had seen in her. "There's room for only one," he said, and she shrank and bared her teeth as if afraid he meant to drag her out again. "After I close the hatch, push that button there, the activator. Understand?" That she understood at once. He dogged the double hatch shut, and waited. Only about three seconds passed before there came a soft scraping sound that he supposed meant that the boat had gone. XTearby was a tiny observation J  blister, and Herron put his head into it and watched the stars turn beyond the dark blizzard of the nebula. After a while he saw the berserker through the blizzard, turning with the stars, black and rounded and bigger than any mountain. It gave no sign that it had detected the tiny boat slipping away. Its launch was very near the Franz but none of the commensal machines were in sight. Looking the Man With A Glove in the eye, Herron pushed him forward again, to a spot near his easel. The discordant lines of Herron's own work were now worse than disgusting, but Herron made himself work on them. He hadn't time to do much before the man-shaped machine came walking back to him; the uproar of metalworking had ceased. Wiping his brush carefully, Herron put it down, and nodded at his berserker-portrait. "When you destroy all the rest, save this painting. Carry it back to those who built you, they deserve it." The machine-voice squeaked back at him: "Why do you think I will destroy paintings? Even if they are attempts to praise life, they are dead things in themselves, and so in themselves they are good." Herron was suddenly too frightened and weary to speak. Looking dully into the machine's lenses, he saw there tiny flickerings, keeping time with his own pulse and breathing, like the indications of a liedetector. "Your mind is divided," said the machine. "But with its much greater part you have praised me. I have repaired your ship, and set its course. I now release you, so other life-units can learn from you to praise what is good." Herron could only stand there staring straight ahead of him, while a trampling of metal feet went past, and there was a final scraping on the hull. After some time he realized he was alive and free. At first he shrank from the dead men, but after once touching them he soon got them into a freezer. He had no particular reason to think either of them Believers, but he found a book and read Islamic, Ethical, Christian and Jewish burial services. Then he found an undamaged handgun on the deck, and went prowling the ship, taken suddenly with the wild notion that a machine might have stayed behind. Pausing only to tear down the abomination from his easel, he went on to the very stern. There he had to stop, facing the direction in which he supposed the berserker now was. "Damn you, I can change!" he shouted at the stern bulkhead. His voice broke. "I can paint again. I'll show you... I can change. I am IF IF  Serial Across the great galaxies Seaton and DuQuesne battled -- whole races their pawns -- and the universe their prize! S eaton, halfway to the headsets, paused, stunned. That strident roar of klaxons was a noise he had not expected ever to hear except in test. It was the dire warning that the life of the Valeron's defensive screens was to be measured in seconds and but few of them. Yipe!" he yelled then. "Controlroom fastV His voice of course went unheard in the clamor of the horns; but his yelling had been purely reflexive, anyway. While uttering the first syllable he was energizing beams of force that hurtled all eight of the party through ultra-high-speed locks that snapped open in front of them and crashed shut behind them -- down into the neutral-gray chamber at the base of the giant Brain. The deadliest enemies in the universe are Richard Seaton and Marc C. DuQuesn# ... but they have patched together their feud in order to join against strange enemies from space. Seaton enters the partnership with open eyes: He knows that Blackie DuQuesne is his enemy. But he also knows that, next to Seaton himself, he is perhaps the ablest human being alive -- and his brains and fighting fury will be needed. DuQuesne, on the other hand, has lost to Seaton too many times before to risk a move against him without every advantage he can get. It was Seaton who imprisoned him in a stasis of pure force, from which he escaped only through the combination of fortune and the superhuman skills of the disembodied intelligences who were his fellow exiles. The partnership is as untable at mercury fulminate; but while they are together, Seaton and DuQuesne are a team that has no equal in the cosmos. And they need all their resources. For space is filled with races driven by their destinies into conflict with humanity -- the Jelmi, strange humans from another galaxy; the Liurdi, their batlike overlords... and an enemy stranger and more deadly still. But DuQuesne has completed his plans. With the aid of a new fourth-dimensional translator invented by the Jelmi he is confident he can take Seaton. He sends six hired gunmen through the fourth dimension to kill Seaton and his friends. But the gunmen fail. In that same moment, another enemy strikes: At fantastically long range an undetected spaceship is attacking them with destroying rays... and their defenses are going downl Seaton rammed his head into his master controller and began furiously but accurately to think... and as he sat there, face harsh and white and strained, a vast structure of inoson, interlaced with the heaviest fields of force generable by the Valeron's mighty engines, came into being around the Brain and the other absolutely vital components of the worldlet's core. After a few minutes of fantastic effort Seaton sighed gustily and tried to grin. "We're holding 'em and we're getting away," he said, "But I had to let 'em whittle us down to just about a nub before I could spare power enough to grab a lunch off of them while they were getting a square meal off of us." He spoke the exact truth. The attack had been so incredibly violent that in order to counter it he had had to apply the full power of the Val eron, designed to protect a surface eters, to an area of less than thirty thousand. "But what was it, Dick?" Dorothy shrieked. "What could it have been -- possibly?" "I don't know. But you realize, don't you, that it was two separate, unrelated attacks? Not one?" IF "Why, I... I don't think I realize anything yet." "Those guns were Colts," Seaton said, flatly. "Forty-fives. Made in the U. S. A. So that part of it was DuQuesne's doing. He wanted -- still wants -- the Valeron. Bad. But those super-energy super-weapons were definitely something else -- as sure as God made apples. No possible ship could put that much stuff out, let alone DuQuesne's Capital D. So the question rises and asks itself -- " "Just a minute, Dick!" Crane broke in. "Even granting so extraordinary a coincidence as two separate attacks -- " "Coincidence, hell!" Seaton snarled. "There is no such thing. And why postulate an impossibility when you've got Blackie DuQuesne? He sucked me in, as sure as hell's a mantrap -- you can bet your case buck on that. And he outfoxed himself doing it, for all the tea in China!" "What do you mean, Dick?" Dorothy demanded. "How could he have?" "Plain as the nose on... plainer! He got it from somewhere, the son of a -- " Seaton bit the noun savagely off -- "probably from Klazmon, that Galaxy DW-#-LU up ahead there that we were heading for is full of bad Indians. So he honeyed up to the Jelmi, got that fourth-dimensional gadget off of them and tried to kill us with it. And he would have succeeded, except for the pure luck of our having lowered our gravity so drastically on account of Dunark and Sitar." "I see," Crane said. "And the Indians jumped us when he pulled the trigger -- perhaps attracted by his use of the 'gadget'." "That's my guess, anyway," Seaton admitted. "DuQuesne thought he was allowing plenty of leeway in both time and space for his operation. But he wasn't. He had no more idea than we did. Mart, that any such forces as those could possibly be delivered at such extreme tange. And one simple, easy lie -- the coordinates of the Llurdan galaxy -- was all he had to tell me and defend against my probe." D uQuesne's attention was wrenched from his timer by a glare of light from a visiplate. He glanced at it, his jaw dropping in surprise; then his hands flashed to the controls of his fourth-dimensional transmitter and his six men appeared -- four of them gruesomely headless. For a moment all six stood stiffly upright; then, as the supporting forces vanished, all six bodies slumped bonelessly to the floor. DuQuesne, after making quickly sure that the two were in fact as dead as were the four, shrugged his shoulders and flipped the bodies out into deep space. Then, donning practically opaque goggles, he studied the incandescently glaring plate -- to see that the Skylark of Valeron now looked like a minor sun. Involuntarily he caught his breath. The Vale ran s screens were failing -- failing fast. Course after course, including her mighty zones of force, her every defensive layer was flaring into and through the violet and going black. DuQuesne clenched his fists; set his teeth so hard that his jaw-muscles stood out in bands and lumps. Anything to put out that much of that kind of stuff would have to be vast indeed. Incredibly vast. Nothing could be that big -- nothing even pertaining, as far as DuQuesne knew, to any civilization or culture of the known universe. Relaxing a little, he assembled a working projection, but before sending it out he paused in thought. Seaton hadn't attacked; he wasn't the type to. He wouldn't have, even if he could have done so at that range. So the strangers, whoever or whatever they might be, were the aggressors, with a capital "A". Guilty of unprovoked and reasonless aggression; aggression in the first degree. So what Tammon had told him about that galaxy being dominated by "inimical life-forms" was the understatement of the year. And he, DuQuesne himself, had triggered the attack; the fact that it had followed his own attack so nearly instantly made that a certainty. How had he triggered it? Almost certainly by the use of the fourth-dimensional transmitter... But howl He didn't know and he couldn't guess... and at the moment it didn't make a lick of difference. He hadn't used any sixth-order stuff since then and he sure wouldn't use any now for a good while. If he did anything at all, he'd pussyfoot it, but good. He didn't want any part of anything that could manhandle the Skylark of Valeron like that. His Capital D was small enough and far enough back -- he hoped I -- to avoid detection. No he wouldn't do a single damn thing except look on. F ascinated, DuQuesne stared into the Valeron's screens were down now. Even the ultra-powerful innermost zone -- the wall shield itself, the last line of defense of the bare synthetic of the worldlet's outer skin -- was going fast. Huge black areas appeared, but they were black only momentarily. Such was the power of that incredible assault that thousands of tons of inoson flared in an instant into ragingly incandescent vapor; literally exploding; exploding with such inconceivable violence as to blast huge masses of solid inoson out of the Valeron's thick skin and hurl them at frightful speed out into space. And the Valeron was not fighting back. She couldn't. This fact, more than anything else, rocked DuQuesne to the core and gave him the measure of the power at the disposal of the "inimical" entities of that galaxy. For he, knowing the Valeron's strength, now knew starkly that she was being attacked by forces of a magnitude never even approximated by the wildest imaginings of man. Scowling in concentration, he kept on watching the disaster. Watched while those utterly unbelievable forces peeled the Valeron down like an onion, layer after kilometer-thick layer. Watched until that for which he had almost ceased to hope finally took place. The Valeron, down now to the merest fraction of her original size -- burned and blasted down to IF the veriest core -- struck back. And that counterstroke was no love-tap. The ether and all the subethers seethed and roiled under the vehemence of that devastating bolt of energy. The Skylark of Valeron vanished from DuQuesne's plate; that plate went black; and DuQuesne stood up and stretched the kinks out of his muscles. Seaton could of course flit away on the sixth; but he, DuQuesne, couldn't. Not without being detected and getting burned to a crisp. Against the forces that he had just seen in action against the Skylark of Valeron, DuQuesne's own Capital D didn't stand the proverbial chance of the nitrocellulose dog chasing the asbestos cat in hell. If the Skylark of Valeron had been hurt, half-demolished and reduced to an irreducible core of fighting muscle before it could mount one successful counter-blow against this new and unexpected enemy, then the Capital D would be reduced to its primitive gases. DuQuesne rapidly, soberly and accurately came to the conclusion that he simply did not own ship enough to play in this league. Not yet... Wherefore he pussyfooted it away from there at an acceleration of only a few lights; and he put many parsecs of distance between himself and the scene of recent hostilities before he cut in his space-annihilating sixthorder drive and began really to travel. He did not know whether Seaton and his party were surviving; he did not care. He did not know the identity of the race which had hurt them so badly, so fast. What DuQuesne knew was that, as a bare minimum, he needed something as big as the Valeron, plus the fourth-dimensional tricks he had learned from the Jelmi, plus a highly developed element of caution based on the scene he had just witnessed. And he knew what to do about it, and where to go to do it; wherefore his course was laid for the First Galaxy and Earth. H undreds of thousands, of parsecs away from the scene of disaster, Seaton cut his drive and began gingerly to relax the terrific power of his defensive screens. No young turtle, tentatively poking his head out of his shell to see if the marauding gulls had left, was more careful than Seaton. He had been caught off base twice. He did not propose to let it happen again. Another man might have raged and sworn at DuQuesne for his treachery; or panicked at the fear inspired by the fourth-dimensional transmitter DuQuesne had come up with, or the massive blow that had fallen from nowhere. Seaton did not. The possibility -- no, the virtual certainty -- of treachery from DuQuesne he had accepted and discounted in the first second of receiving DuQuesne's distress call. He had accepted the risks, and grimly calculated that in any encounter, however treacherous, DuQuesne would fail; and he had been right. The sudden attack from out of nowhere, however, was something else again. What made it worse was not that Seaton had no idea of its source or reason. The thing that caused his IF eyes to narrow, his face to wear a hard, thoughtful scowl was that he in fact had a very good idea indeed -- and he didn't like it. But for the moment they were free. Seaton checked and doublechecked every gauge and warning device and nodded at last. "Good," he said then, "I was more than half expecting a kick in the pants, even way out here. The next item on our agenda is a council of war; so cluster 'round, everybody, and get comfortable." He turned control over to the Brain, sat down beside Dorothy, stroked his pipe, and went on: "Point one; DuQuesne. He got stuff somewhere -- virtually certainly from the Jelmi -- at least the fourth-dimensional transmitter and we don't know what else, that he didn't put out anything about. Naturally. And he sucked me in like Mary's little lamb. Also naturally. At hindsight I'm a blinding flash and a deafening report. I've got a few glimmerings, but you're the brain. Mart; so give out with analysis and synthesis." Crane did so; covering the essential points and concluding: "Since the plug-chart was accurate, the course was accurate. Therefore, besides holding back vital information, DuQuesne lied about one or both of two things: the point at which the signal was received and the direction from which it came." "Well, you can find out about that easily enough," Dorothy said. "You know, that dingus you catch lightwaves with, so as to see exactly what went on years and years ago. Or wouldn't it work, this far away?" Seaton nodded. "Worth a try. Dunark?" "I say go after DuQuesne!" the Osnomian said viciously. "Catch him and blow him and his Capital D to hellangone up!" Seaton shook his head. "I can't buy that -- at the moment. Now that he's flopped again at murder, I don't think he's of first importance any more. You see, I haven't mentioned Point Two yet, which is a datum I didn't put into the pot because I wanted to thrash Point One out first. It's about who the enemy really are. When I finally got organized to slug them a good one back, I followed the shot. They knew they'd been nudged, believe me. So much so that in the confusion I got quite a lot of information. They're Chlorans. Of, if not exactly like the Chlorans of Chlora, that we had all the trouble with, as nearly identical as makes no difference." ahlorans!" Dorothy and Margaret shrieked as one, and five minds dwelt briefly upon that hideous and ultimately terrible race of amoeboid monstrosities who, living in an atmosphere of gaseous chlorine, made it a point to enslave or to destroy all the humanity of all the planets they could reach. All five remembered, very vividly, the starkly unalloyed ferocity which one race of Chlorans had attacked the planet Valeron; near which the Skylark of Valeron had been built and after which she had been named. They remembered the horrifyingly narrow margin by which those ChlcMans hftd been defeated. They also remembered that the Chlorans had not even then been slaughtered. The Skylarkers had merely enclosed the planet Chi ora in a stasis of time and sent ii back -- on a trip that would last, for everyone and everything outside that stasis, some four hundred years -- to its own native solar system, from which it had been torn by a near-collision of suns in the longgone past. The Skylarkers should have blown Chlora into impalpable and invisible debris, and ihe men of the party had wanted to do just that, but Dorothy and Margaret and the essentially gentle Valeronians had been dead set against genocide. Dorothy broke the short silence. "But how could they be, Dick?" she asked. " 'Way out here? But of course, if we human beings could do it -- " She paused. "But of course," Seaton agreed sourly. "Why not? Why shouldn't they be as widespread as humanity is? Or even more so, if they have killed enough of us off? And why shouldn't they be smarter than those others were? Look at how much we've learned in just months, not millenia, of time." Another and longer silence fell; which was broken by Seaton. "Well, two things are certain. They're rabidly anti-social and they've got -- at the moment -- a lot more stuff than we have. They've got it to sell, like farmers have hay. It's also a dead-sure cinch that we can't do a thing -- not anything -- without a lot more data than we have now. It'll take all the science of Norlamin and maybe a nickel's worth besides to design and build what we'll have to have. And they can't go it blind Nobody can. And we all know enough about Chlorans to know that we won't get one iota or one of Peg's smidgeons of information out of them by remote control. At the first touch of any kind of a highorder feeler they'll bat our ears down... to a fare-thee-well. However, other means are available." And he glanced at a monitor where for some minutes a display had shown a planet of the galaxy from which their recent attacker had come. D uring this fairly long -- for Seaton -- speech, and during th# silence that had preceded it, two things had been happening. First the controlling Brain of the ship had been carrying out a program of Seaton's Star by star, system by system, it had been scanning the components of the nearest galaxy to the scene of their encounter. It had in fact verified Seaton's conclusions: the galaxy was dominated by Chlorans. Their works were everywhere. But it had also supported a -- not a conclusion; a hope, more accurately -- that Seaton had hardly dared put in words. Although the Chlorans ruled this galaxy. There were oxygen-breathing, warm-blooded races in it too -- serfs of the Chlorans of course, but nevertheless occupying their own planets -- and it was one such planet that the Brain had finally selected and was now displaying on its monitor. IF The other thing wes that the auburn-haired beauty who was Mrs. Richard Ballinger Seaton had been eyeing her husband steadily. At first she had merely looked at him thoughtfully. Then look and mien had become heavily tinged, first with surprise and then with doubt and then with wonder; a wonder that turned into an incredulity that became more and more incredulous. Until finally, unable to hold herself in any longer, she broke in on him. "Dick!" she cried. "You wouldn't! You know you wouldn't!" "I wouldn't? If not, who...?" Changing his mind between two words, Seaton cut the rest of the sentence sharply off; shrugged his shoulders; and grinned, somewhat shamefacedly, back at her. At this point Crane, who had been looking first at one of them and then at the other, put in: "I realize, Dorothy, that you and Dick don't need either language or headsets to communicate with each other, but how about the rest of us? What, exactly, is it that you're not as sure as you'd like to be that he wouldn't do?" Dorothy opened her mouth to reply, but laton beat her to it. "What I would do -- and will because I'll have to; because it's my oyster and nobody else's -- is, after we sneak up as close as we can without touching off any alarms, take a landing craft and go get the data we absolutely have to have in absolutely the only way it can be gotten." "And that's what I most emphatically do not like!" Dorothy blazed. "Dick Seaton, you are not going ta land on an enslaved planet, alone and unarmed and afoot, as an investigating Committee of One! Fr one thing, we simply don't have the time! Do we? I mean, poor old Valeron is simply a wreck! We've got to go somewhere and -- " But Seaton was shaking his head. "The Brain can handle that by itself," he said. "All it needs is time. As a matter of fact, you've put your finger on a first-rate reason for my going in, alone. There's simply not much else we can do until the VaU eron is back in shape again." "Not your going in." Dorothy blazed. "Flatly, positively no." Again Seaton shrugged his shoulders. "I can't say I'm madly in love with the idea myself, but who's any better qualified? Or as well? Because I know that you, Dottie, arenlt the type to advocate us sitting on otjt hands and letting them have all the races of humanity, wherever situate. So who?" "Me," Shiro said, promptly if ungrammatically. "Not as good, but good enough. You can tell me what data you want and I can and will get it, just as well as... "Bounce back, both of you, you've struck a rubber fence!" Dunark snapped. "That job's for Sitar and me." The green-skinned princess waved her pistol in the air and nodded her head enthusiastically her warlord went on, "You and I being brain-brothers, Dick, I'd knr w exactly what you want. And she and I would blast -- " "Yeah, that's what I know danm well you'd do." Seaton broke in. only to be interrupted in turn by Crane -- who was not in the habit of interrupting anyone even once, to say nothing of twice. "Excuse me, everyone," he said, "but you're all wrong, I think. My thought at the moment, Dick, is that your life is altogether too important to the project as a whole to be risked as you propose risking it. As to you others, with all due respect for your abilities, I do not believe that either of you is as well qualified for this kind of an investigation as I am -- " Margaret leaped to her feet in protest, but Crane went quietly on: " -- in either experience or training. However, we should not decide that point yet -- or at all, for that matter. We are all too biased. I therefore suggest, Dick, that we feed the Brain everything we have and keep on feeding it everything pertinent we can get hold of, until it has enough data to make that decision for us." That makes sense," Seaton said, and both Dorothy and Margaret nodded -- but both with very evident reservations. "The first time anything has made sense today!" XV Ky-El Mokak the Wilder T he first thing Seaton and Crane had to do, of course, was to figure out how to get back somewhere near Galaxy DW-#-LU, within fourth-order range of that one particular extremely powerful Chloran system, without using enough sixth-order stuff to touch off any alarms -- but still enough to make the trip in days instead of in months. Some sixth-order emanations could be neutralized by properly phased and properly placed counter-generators; the big question being, how much? The answer turned out to be, according to Crane, "Not enough" -- but, according to Seaton, "Satisfactory". At least, it did make the trip not only possible, but feasible. And during the days' of that trip each Skylarker worked -- with the Brain or with a computer or with pencil and paper or with paint or India ink and a brush, each according to his bent -- on the problem of what could be done about the Chlorans. They made little headway, if any at all. They did not have enough data. Inescapably, the attitude of each was very strongly affected by what he or she knew about the Chlorans they had already encountered. They were all smart enough to know that this was as indefensible as it was inevitable. Thus, while each of them developed a picture completely unlike anyone else's as to what the truth probably was, none of them was convinced enough of the validity of his theory to defend it vigorously. Thus it was discussion, not argument, that went on throughout the cautious approach to the forbidden territory and the ultra-cautious investigation of the Tellus-type planet the Brain had selected through powerful optical telescopes and by means of thirdand fourth-order apparatus. Then they fell silent, apIF palled; for that world was inhabited by highly intelligent human beings and what had been done to it was shocking indeed. T hey had seen what had been done to the planet Valeron. This was worse; much worse. On Valeron the ruins had been recognizable as having once been cities. Even those that had been blown up or slagged down by nuclear energies had shown traces of what they had once been. There had been remnants and fragments of structural members, unfused portions of the largest buildings, recognizable outlines and traces of thoroughfares and so on. But here, where all of the big cities and three-fourths or more of the medium-sized ones had been, there were now only huge sheets of glass. Sheets of glass ranging in area from ten or fifteen square miles up to several thousands of square miles, and variously from dozens up to hundreds of feet thick: level sheets of cracked and shattered, almost transparent, vari-colored glass. The people of the remaining cities and towns and villages were human. In fact, they were white Caucasians -- as white and as Caucasian as the citizens of Tampa or of Chicago or of Portland, Oregon or of Portland, Maine. Neither Seaton nor Shiro, search as they would, could find any evidence that any Oriental types then lived or ever had lived on that world -- to Shiro's lasting regret. He, at least, was eliminated as a spy. "Well, Dottie?" Seaton asked. She gnawed her lip. "Well... I suppose we'll have to do something -- but hey!" she exclaimed, voice and expression changing markedly. "How come you think you have to go down there at all to find out what the score is? You've snatched people right and left all over the place with ordinary beams and things, long before anybody ever heard of that sixth-order, fourth-dimensional gizmo. Seaton actually blushed. "That's right, my pet," he admitted. "Once again you've got a point. I'll pick one out that's so far away from everybody else that he won't be missed for a while. Maybe two'd be better." Since it was an easy matter to find isolated specimens of the humanity of that world, it was less than an hour later that two men -- one from a town, one found wandering alone in the mountains -- were being examined by the Brain. And what an examination! Everything in their minds -- literally everything, down to the last-least-tiniest coded "bit" of every long-chain proteinoid molecule of every convolution of their brains -- everything was being transferred to the Valerons Great Brain; was being filed away in its practically unfill able memory banks. When the transfer was complete, Sitar drew her pistol, very evidently intending to do away with the natives then and there. But Dorothy of course would not stand for that. Instead, she herself put them back into a shell of force and ran them through the Valerons locks and down into m mountain cave which she then half-filled with food. "I'd advise you tv. o," she told them then, in their own language, "to stay put here for a few days and keep out of trouble. If you really want to gel yourselves killed, though, that's all right with me. Go ahead any time.' When Dorothy brought her attention back into the control room, tibe Brain had finished its analysis of the data it had just secured from the natives, had correlated it with all their pertinent data it had in its banks, and was beginning to put out its synthesized report. T hat report came in thought; in diamond-sharp, diamond-clear thought that was not only super-intelligible and super-audible, but also was more starkly visible than any possible tri-di. It gave, as no possible other form of report could give, the entire history of the race to which those two men belonged. It described in detail and at length the Chlorans amd the relationship between the two races, and went on to give, in equal detail, the most probable course of near-term events. It told Seaton that he should investigate this planet Ray-See-Nee in person. It told him in fine detail what to wear, where to go, and. practically every move to make for the ensuing twenty-four hours. At that point the report stopped, and when aton demanded more information, the Brain balked. "Data insufficient," it thought, and everyone there would have sworn that the Great Brain actually had a consciousness of self as it went on, "This construct -- " it actually meant "#" -- "is not built to guess, but deals only in virtual certainties; that is, with probabilities that approximate unity to twelve or more nines. With additional data, this matter can be explored to a depth quite strictly proportional to the sufficiency of the data. That is all." "That's the package, Dottie," Seaton said then. "If we want to reach the Chlorans .without them reaching us first, there's how. That makes it a force, wouldn't you say?" Dorothy wasn't sure. "For twenty-four hours, I guess," she agreed, dubiously. "After which time I think I'll be screaming for you to come back here and feed that monster some more data. So be mighty dam sure to get some." "I'll try to, that's for sure. But the really smart thing to do might be to take this wreckage half a dozen galaxies away and put the Brain to work rebuilding her while I'm down there investigating." "D'you think I'll sit still for thatV Dorothy blazed. "If you do, you're completely out of your mind!" And even Crane did not subscribe to the idea. "Why?" he asked, "Just to tear her down again after you've found out what we'll have to have?" "That's so, too." Seaton thought for a moment, gray eyes narrowed and focused on infinity, translating the imperatives of the Brain into practical measures. Then he nodded. "All right. I admit I'll feel better about the deal with you people and the Brain standing by." And Seaton, now lean and hard and deeply tanned, sat down in his IF Hi llUilhli!;. ilppill Bssajissjssi ilmiyrifl H !:'!r master controller and began to manufacture the various items he would need; exactly as the Brain told him to make them. And next morning, as the sun began to peer over the crest of the high mountain ridge directly below the Skylark of Valeron, Seaton came to ground, hid his tiny landing-craft in a cave at the eighteen-thousandfoot level, and hiked the fifteen miles down-mountain to the nearest town. H e now looked very little indeed like the Doctor Richard B. Seaton of the Rare Metals Laboratory. He was almost gaunt. His skin was burned to a shade consistent with years of exposure to wind and weather. His hair had very evidently been cut -- occasionally -- with shears by his own hand; his beard had been mowed -- equally occasionally -- with those same shears. He wore crudely made, heavy, hobnailed, high-laced boots; a pair of baggy, unsymmetrical breeches of untanned deerskin; and a shapeless, poor-grade-leather coat that had been patched crudely and repeatedly at elbows and shoulders and across the back. He also wore what was left of a hard hat. As he strode into the town and along its main street, more than one pair of eyes looked at him and then looked again, for the people of that town were not used to seeing anyone walk purposefully. Nor was the sloppily uniformed guard at the entrance to City Hall. This wight -- who couldn't have been a day over fifteen -- opened his eyes, almost straightened up and said: "Halt, you. Who'a you? Whatcha want?" "Business," Seaton said, briskly. "To see the mayor, Ree-Toe Prenk." "Awri'; g'wan in," and the youth relapsed into semi-stuporous leaning on his ratty-looking rusty rifle. It was easy enough to find His Honor's office, since it was the only one in the building doing any business at all. Seaton paused just inside the doorway and looked around. Everything was shabby and neglected. The wall-to-wall carpet was stained and dirty, worn through to the floor, in several places. The divider-rail leaned drunkenly, forward here, backward there. The vacant receptionist's desk was as battered and scarred as though it had been through a war. The place hadn't been cleaned for months, and not very thoroughly then. And the people in that office were in perfect sync with their surroundings. Half a dozen melancholy-looking people, men and women, sat listlessly on hard, straight-backed chairs; staring glumly, fixedly at nothing; completely disinterested, apparently, in whether they were ever called into the inner office or not. And the secretary! She was dressed in what looked like a gunny-sack. She was scrawny. Her unkempt, straight, lank hair was dirty-mouse brown in color. She didn't look very bright. She was, however, the only secretary in sight, so Seaton strode up to her desk. "Miss What's-your-name!" he snapped. "Can you, without rupturing a blood-vessel, come to life IF long enough to do half a minute's work?" The girl jumped, started to rise to her feet at her desk, and blushed. "Why, yes... yes, sir, I mean. What can we do for you. Mister -- ?" "I'm Ky-El Mokak. I want to talk to Hizzonner about turning myself in." T hat brought her to life fast. "About whatT she cried, and her half-scream was followed instantly by a deeper, louder voice from the intercom. His honor had not been asleep after all. "You what? All right, FyLy, send him in; but be sure he hasn't got a gun first." "Gun? What would I be doing with a gun?" Seaton patted his pockets, shucked off his dilapidated coat, and made a full turn to show that he was clean. Then, seeing no coat-rack or hangers, he pitched the coat and hat into a corner and strode into the inner office. It was, if possible, in even worse shape than the outer one. The man behind the desk was fifty-odd years old; lean and bald. He looked worried, dyspeptic and nervous. He held a hand-weapon -- which was not the least bit rusty -- in workmanlike faaihion in a competent-looking right hand. It was not pointed directly at Seaton's midsection. It evidently did not have to be, "What I'd ought to do right now," the man said quietly, "is blow your brains out without letting you say a word. You're another damn rat. A fink -- a spy -- maybe a rewer or an undergrounder, even. You don't look like any wilder I ever saw brought in." The Brain had not dumped Seaton on a strange and dangerous new planet without providing him with a full "knowledge" of its history, its mores and even its dialects. Through the educators Seaton had received enough of Ray-See-Nee's cultural patterns to be able to carry off his role. He knew what His Honor was thinking about; he knew, even, very accurately just how far the man could be pushed, where his real sympathies lay, and what he could be counted upon to do about it. Wherefore Seaton said easily: "Of course I don't. I've got a brain. Those lard-headed chasseurs couldn't catch me in a thousand years. None of 'em can detect a smell on a skunk. And you won't shoot me, not with the bind you're in. You aren't a damn enough fool to. You wouldn't shoot a crippled kid on crutches, let alone a full-grown, able-bodied man." Prenk shivered a little, but that was all. "Who says I'm in a bind? What kind of a bind?" "I say so," Seaton said, flatly. "You're hitting bottom right now. You're using half-grown kids: girls, even. How many weeks is it going to be before you don't make quota and your town and everything and everybody in it get turned into a lake of lava?" Prenk trembled visibly and his face turned white. "You win," he said unsteadily, and put his pistol back into the top right-hand drawer of his desk. "Whoever you are, you know the score and aren't afraid to talk about it. You'd have no papers, of course -- on yoii, at least... Let's see your arm." "No number." Seaton rolled up his left sleeve and held his forearm out for examination. "Look close. Scars left by good surgery are fine, i Lit they can't be made invisible." "I know they can't." His Honor looked very closely indeed, then drew a tremendously deep breath of relief. "You are a wilder! You mean to say you've been up in the hills ever since the Conquest without getting caught?" "That's right, i told you I'm smart, and the brains of a whole platoon of chasseurs, all concentrated down into one, wouldn't equip a half-witted duck." "But they've got dogs "Yeah, but they aren't smart, either. Not very much smarter than the chasseurs are. Hell, I've been living on those dogs half the time. Pretty tough, fried or roasted, but boiled long enough they make mighty tasty stew." "Mi-Ko-Ta's beard! Who are you, really, and what were you,, before?" "I told you, I'm Ky-El-Mokak. I am -- was, rather -- a Class 'Twelve Fellow of the Institute of Mining Engineers. Recognize the ring?" Seaton went to the desk and placed his left hand flat on its surface. P renk studied the massive ornament. It had been fabricated, in strict external accord with the Brain's visualization of what it should have been, from synthesized meteoric metal -- metal that had actually never been in open space, to say nothing of ever having been anywhere near the gray-lichened walls of the revered Institute that Seaton had never seen. Having examined the ring minutely, Prenk looked up and nodded; his whole manner changed. "I recognize the ring and I can read the symbols. A Twelve! It's a shame to register and brand you. If you say so I'll let it drop." "I'll say so. I'm not committing myself that deep yet." "All right, but why did you come in? Or is it true that whatever undergrounds spring up are smashed flat in a week?" "I don't know. I couldn't find any. Not one, and I searched every square mile for a thousand miles north, east, south, and west of here. And I didn't find anybody who wasn't too dangerous to travel with, and I'm gregarious. Also, I don't like caves and I don't like camp cooking and I don't like living off the land -- and I do like music and books and art and educated people and so on -- in other words, I found out that I can't revert to savagery. And, not least, I like women and there aren't any out there. What few ever make it up there die fast." "I'm beginning to believe you." A little of the worry and harassment left His Honor's face. "One more question. Why, knowing the jam we're in, did you come here instead of going somewhere where you'd be safe?" "Because, on the basis of stuff I picked up here and there, you and I together can make it safe here. I IF can fix your mining machinery easily enough so you can make quota every week with no sweat; so the town won't get flagged down; not right away, anyway. You aren't a quisling, and my best guess is that most of the spies and storm-troopers have sneaked out or have been pulled out because of what's supposed to be about to happen here," Seaton said. Prenk stared thoughtfully at Seaton. "You don't appear to be the suicidal type. But you know as well as I do that just making quota won't be enough for very long. What have you really got in mind, Ky-ElMokak?" Seaton thought for a moment. Then, shrugging his shoulders, he dug down into his baggy breeches and brought out two closely folded headsets. "Put one of these on. It isn't a player or a recorder; just a kind of super-telephone. A fast way of exchanging information." Prenk wore it for a couple of minutes, then took it off, staring suspiciously in turn at it and at Seaton. "Why didn't I ever hear of anything like that before?" he demanded. Seaton didn't answer the question and Prenk went on, "Oh; secret. Okay. But what makes you think you can set up an underground right out here in the open?" "There's no reason in the world why we can't," Seaton declared. "Especially since we'd just be revmng one that everybody, including the Premier and you yourself, thinks is smashed flat and is about to be liquidated." T his was the second really severe test Seaton had made of the Brain's visualizations, and it too stood solidly up. All Prenk said was, "You're doing the talking; keep it up," but his hands, clenching tightly into fists, showed that Seaton's shot had struck the mark. "I've talked enough," Seaton said then. "From here on I'd be just guessing. It's your turn to talk." "All right. It's too late now. I'm afraid, for anything to make any difference. Yes, I was the leader of a faction that believed in decent, humane, civilized government, but we weren't here then, we were in the capital. Our coup failed. And those of us who were caught were exiled here and arrangements were made for us to be the next wipe-out." "Some of your party survived, then. Could you interest them again, do you think?" "Without arms and equipment, no. That was why we failed." "Equipment would be no problem." "It wouldn't?" Prenk's eyes began to light up. "No." Seaton did not elaborate, but went on, "The problem is people and morale. I can't supply people and we have to start here, not over in the capital. Self-preservation. We've got to make quota. Your people have been hammered down so flat that they don't give a whoop whether they live or die. As I said, I can fix the machinery, but that of itself won't be enough. We'll have to give 'em a shot in the arm of hope." "Okay, and thanks." no one in the outer office, not even the secretary, so much as looked up as the two men, talking busily, walked out. D uQuesne, en route to Earth, knew just what a madhouse Earth was, and in just what respects. He knew just how nearly impossible it was to buy machine tools of any kind. He also knew just what an immense job it was going to be to build a duplicate of the Skylark of Valeron. Or, rather, to build the tools that would build the machines that would in turn build the planetoid. With his high-order constructors he could build most of those primary machine tools himself; perhaps all of them in time; but time was exactly what he did not have. Time was decidedly of the essence. DuQuesne's ex-employer. The World Steel Corporation, had billions of dollars' worth of exactly the kind of tooling he had to have. They not only used it, they manufactured it and sold it. And what of it they did not manufacture they could buy. How they could buy! As a result of many years of intensive, highly organized, and well directed snooping, Brookings of Steel had over a thousand very effective handles upon over' a thousand very important men. And he, DuQuesne, had a perfect handle on Brookings. He was much harder and ruthless than Brookings was, and Brookings knew it. He could make Brookings buy his primary tooling for him -- enough of it to stuff the Capital D to her outer skin. And he would do just that. Wherefore, as soon as he got within working range of Earth, he launched his projection directly into Brookings' private office. This time, the tycoon was neither calm nor quiet. Standing behind his desk, chair lying on its side behind him, he was leaning forward with his left hand flat on the top of his desk. He was clutching a half-smoked, half-chewed cigar in his right hand and brandishing it furiously in the air. He was yelling at his terrified secretary; who, partly standing in front of her chair and partly crouching into it, was trying to muster up courage to run. Tlhen DuQuesne's projection appeared Brookings fell silent for a moment and goggled. Then he screamed. "Get out of here, you!" at the girl, who scuttled frantically away. He hurled what was left of his cigar into his big bronze ashtray, where it disintegrated into a shower of sparks and a slathery mess of soggy, sticky brown leaves. And finally, exerting everything he had of self-control, he picked his chair up, sat down in it and glared at DuQuesne. "Careful of your apoplexy. Fat," DuQuesne sneered then. "I've told you -- you'll rupture your aorta some day and that will just about break my heart." Brookings' reply to that was unprintable; after which he went on, even more bitterly, "This is all it lacks to make this a perfect day." IF "Yeah," DuQuesne agreed, callously. "Some days you can't lay up a cent. I suppose you've been eager to know why I didn't return your goons to you." "There's nothing in the world I'm less interested in." "ni tell you anyway, for the record." DuQuesne did not know what had actually happened, but Brookings was never to know that. "They each got one free shot, as I said they would. But they missed." "Skip that. Doctor," Brookings said, brusquely. "You didn't come here for that. What do you want this time?" DuQuesne reached over, took a ball-point out of Brookings' pocket, tore the top sheet off of the memorandum pad on Brookings' desk, and wrote out an order for one hundred to the World Steel Corporation, on a numbered account in a Swiss bank. He slid the order across the glass top of the desk and said: "You needn't worry about whether it's good or not. It is. I want machine tools and fast deliverys." Brookings glanced at the paper, but did not touch it. His every muscle tensed, but he did not quite blow itp again. "Machine tools," he grated. "You know damn well money's no good on them." "Money alone, no." DuQuesne agreed equably. "That's why I'm having you apply pressure. You'll get the details -- orders, specs, times and places of delivery, and so forth -- by registered mail tomorrow morning. Shall I spell out the 'or else' for you?" Brookings was quivering with rage, but there wasn't a thing is the world he could do about the situation and he knew it. "Not for me," he managed finally, "but I'd better record it for certain people who will have to know." "Okay. Any mistake in any detail of the transaction or one second more than twenty-four hours' delay in any specified time of delivery will mean a one-hundred-kiloton superatomic on North Africa Number Eleven. Good-by." And DuQuesne cut his projection. To Brookings, he seemed to vanish; to DuQuesne himself, he simply was back in his own Capital D, far out in space; and DuQuesne allowed himself to smile. Things were going rather well, he thought. Seaton was tangled up with whoever the new enemy had turned out to be; might well be dead; at any rate, was not a factor he, DuQuesne, needed currently to take into his calculations. By the time Seaton was back in circulation DuQuesne should have his new ship and be ready to handle him. And from then on... From then on, thought DuQuesne, it was only a short step to his rightful, inevitable destiny: His universe. No one able to contest his mastery. -- So thought DuQuesne, who at that point in time knew nearly every factor that bore upon his plans, and had carefully and correctly evaluated them all. He knew about the Llurdi and the Jelmi; he knew that Seaton and the Chlorans were, from his point of view, keeping each other neutralized; he knew that lor the Norlaminians, even were unlikely to cause him any trouble. DuQuesne really knew all the relevant facts but one -- or, you might say, two. These two facts were a very long distance away. One was a young girl. The ether was her mother. Two individuals out of a universe! Why, even if DuQuesne had known of their existence, he might have discounted their importance completely. In which he would have been -- completely -- wrong. Humanity Triumphant, Not Inc S ince Seaton as Ky-El Mokak was not the least bit fussy, he accepted the first house that Prenk showed him. His honor offered also -- with a more than somewhat suggestive expression -- to send him a housekeeper, but Seaton declined the offer with thanks; explaining that that could wait until he got himself organized and could do a little looking around for himself. Prenk gave Seaton a handful of currency and a ground-car -- one of Prenk's own, this; a beautifully streamlined, beautifully kept little three-wheeled jewel of a groundcar -- told him where the shoppingcenters were, and went back to City Hall; Seaton bought a haircut and a shave, a couple of outfits of clothing, and some household supplies, which he took out to his new home and stowed away. By that time it was the local equivalent of half-past three, and the shifts changed at four o'clock; wherefore he drove his spectacular little speedster six miles up-canyon to the uraninite mine that was the sole reason for the town's existence. Since he did not want to be shot out of hand, he did not dare to be late or to do anything unusual, either during the five-mile train-ride along the main tunnel or during the skip-ride down to the eighty-fourhundred-foot level where he was to work. Once in the stope itself, however, he stopped -- exactly thirteen feet short of the stiffly erect young overseer -- and stood still while his shiftmates picked up their tools and started for the hanging wall -- the something-more-than-vertical face of the cavernous stope -- to begin their day's work. The overseer was a well-fed young man, and the second native Seaton had seen who looked more than half alive. His jacket, breeches and boots were as glossily black as his crash-helmet was glossily white. He 'vas a very proud young man, and arrogant. His side-arm hung proudly at his hip. His bull-whip coiled arrogantly ready for instant use. This wight stared haughtily at Seaton for a moment, and began to swell up like a pouter pigeon. Then, as Seaton made an unmistakeable gesture at him, he went into smoothly violent action. "Oh, you're the wilder!" he snarled, and swung the heavy blacksnake with practised ease. But Seaton had known exactly what to expect and he was ready for IF it He ducked and sidestepped with the speed and control of the trained gymnast that he was; he handled ibe short, thick club that had been m his sleeve as though it were the wand of the highly skilled prestigitator that he was. Thus, in the instant that the end of the lash curled savagely around the hickory he swung it like a home-run hitter swings a bat -- and caught the blacksnake's heavy, shot-loaded butt on the fly in his right hand. The minion went for his gun, of course, but Seaton's right arm was already swinging around and back, and as gun cleared holster the bullwhip's vicious tip snapped around both gun and hand with a pistolsharp report. The trooper stared, for an instant stunned, at the blood spurting from his paralyzed right hand; and that instant was enough. Seaton stepped up to him and put his left fist deep into his midsection. Then, as the half-conscious man began to double over, he sent his right fist against its preselected target. Not the jaw -- he didn't want to break his hand -- the throat. Nor did he hit him hard; he didn't want to kill tihie guy, or even damage him permanently., A s the man fell to the hard-rock floor -- writhing in agony, groaning, strangling and gasping horribly for breath -- the men and women and teen-agers looking on burst as one into clamor. "Stomp 'im!" they shrieked and yelled. "Give 'im the boots! Stomp'im! Kill im! Stomp 'is head clean off! Stbmp im right down into the rock!" "Hold it!" Seaton rasped, and the miners fell silent; but they did not relapse into their former apathy. Seaton stood by, waiting coldly for his victim to be able to draw a breath. He picked the overseer's pistol-like weapon up and looked it over. He had never seen anything like it before, and casual inspection didn't tell him much about how it worked, but that could wait. He didn't intend to use it. In fact, he wasn't really interested in it at all. When the overseer had partially recovered his senses, Seaton jammed a headset onto his head and thought viciously at him; as much to give him a taste of real punishment as to find out what he knew and to impress upon his mind exactly what he had to do if he hoped to keep on living. Then Seaton made what was for him a speech. First, to the now completely deflated officer: "You -- you slimy traitor, you stinking turncoat, you quisling! Know now that a new regime has taken over. Maybe I'll let you live and maybe I'll turn you over to these boys and girls here -- you know what they'd do to you. That depends on how exactly you stick to what I just told you. One thought of a squeal -- if you ever get one be under surveillance every second of every day -- you'll die a long, slow, tough death. And I mean tough!" He turned to the miners; studied them narrowly. His "shot in the arm" had done them a lot of good. Excitement was still high; none of them had relapsed into the apathy that had affected them all such a short time before. In fact, one closeclustered group of men was eyeing Seaton and the overseer in a fashion that made it perfectly clear that, had it not been for Seaton's mien and the gun and the whip, there would have been a lynching then and there. "Take it easy, people," Seaton told them. "I know you all want to tear this ape apart, but what good would it do? None. Not a bit. So I won't let you do it, if I have to use the whip and even the gun to keep you from it. But I don't intend to use either whip or gun and I don't think I'll have to, because this is the first bite of a fresh kettle of fish for every civilized human being of this world. I won't go into much detail, but I represent a group of human beings, as human as yourto bring you a message; to tell you that humanity has never been conquered permanently and never will be so conquered. Humanity has triumphed and will continue to triumph over all the vermin infesting all the planets of alj the solar systems of all the galaxies of all surveyed space. plans have been made in full and are being put out into effect. Humanity will win here, and in not too long a time. Every Chloran in every solar system in this region of space will die. That's a promise. "Nor do we need your help. All we ask you is that you produce the full quota of ore every week, so that no Chloran warship will come here too soon. And that production IF win be no problem very shortly, since I can repair your machinery and will have it all back in working order by one week from today. So in a very few weeks you women can go back to keeping house for your families; you youngsters can go back to school; and half of you men will be able to make quota in half a shift and spend the other half of it playing penny-ante. And you, Brother Rat -- " he turned back to the deposed overseer -- "you can peel that pretty uniform. You're going to work, right now. You and I are going to be partners -- and if you so much as begin to drag your feet I'll slap your face clear around onto the back of your neck. Let's go!" T hey went. They picked up a drill -- which weighed all of three hundred pounds -- and lugged it across the rough rock floor to the foot of the face; which, translated from the vernacular, means the lower edge of the expanse of highgrade ore that was being worked. It was a beautiful thing, that face; a startlingly high and wide expanse of the glossly, lustrous, submetallic pitch black of uraninite; slashed and spattered and shot through at random with' the characteristic violent yellows of autunite and carnotite and the variant greens of torbernite. But Seaton was not particularly interested in beauty at the moment. What he hoped was that he could keep from giving away the fact that this was the first time he had ever handled a mining machine of any kind or type. He thought he could, however, and he did. For, after all, there are nr.ly so many ways in which holes can be made in solid rock. Second, since the hard-rock men who operate the machinery to make those holes are never the greatest intellects of any world, such machinery must be essentially simple. And third, the Brain's visualizations had been very complete and Richard Seaton was, as he had admitted to Prenk, an exceptionally smart man. Wherefore, although Seaton unobtrusively let the ex-overseer take the lead, the two men worked very well together and the native did not once drag his feet. They set up the heavy drill and locked it in place against the face. They slipped the shortest "twelve-inch" steel into the chuck and rammed it home. They turned on the air and put their shoulders to the stabilizing pads -- and that monstrous machine, bellowing and thundering under the terrific urge of two hundred pounds to the square inch of compressed air, drove that heavy bit resistlessly into the ore. And the rest of the miners, fired by Seaton's example as well as by his "shot in the arm", worked as they had not worked in months; to such good purpose that when the shift ended at midnight the crew had sent out almost twice as much highgrade ore as they had delivered the night before. I t need hardly be mentioned, perhaps, that Seaton was enjoying himself very much. Although he was not, in truth, the "big, muscle-bound ape -- especially between the ears" he was wont to describe himself as, there was certainly a pleasure in being up against the sort of problem that muscle and skill could settle. For a time he was concerned about the fact that events elsewhere might be proceeding at a pace he could not control; but there was not a minute spent on the surface of this planet that was not a net gain in terms of the automatic repair of the Valeron, That great ship had been hurt. Since there was at the moment very little that Seaton could do effectively about DuQuesne, or directly about the Chlorans, or the Fenachrone -- and was a great deal he could do here on the surface of Ray-See-Nee -- he put the other matters out of his mind and did what had to be done. And enjoyed it enormously! Seaton went "home" to the empty and solitary house that was his temporary residence and raised the oversize ring to his lips. "Dottie," he said. "Oh, Dick!" a tiny scream came from the ring. "I wish you wouldn't take such horrible chances! I thought I'd diel Won't you, tomorrow morning, just shoot the louse, out of hand? PleaseT "I wasn't taking any chances. Dot; a man with half my training could have done it. I had to do something spectacular to snap these people out of it; they're dead from the beltbuckle up, down, and back. But I've done enough, I think, so I won't have any more trouble at all. It'll get around -- and howl -- and strictly on the Q and T. All those other apes will need is a mere touch of fist." "You hope. Me, too, for that matter. Just a sec, here's Martin. He wants to talk to you about that machinery business," and Crane's voice replaced Dorothy's. "I certainly do, Dick. You say you want two-hundred-fifty-pound Sullivan Sluggers, complete with variable-height mounts and inch-anda-quarter -- that's English, remember -- bits. You want Ingersoll-Rand compressors and Westinghouse generators and Wilfley tables and so on, each item by name and no item resembling any of their own machinery in any particular. Since you are supposed to be repairing their own machinery, wouldn't it be better to have the Brain do just that, while you look on, make wise motions, and learn?" "It might be better, at that," Seaton admitted, after a moment's thought. "My thought was that since nobody now working in the mine knows anything much about either mining or machinery it wouldn't make any difference, as long as the stuff was good and rusty on the outside, and I know how our stuff works. But I can learn theirs and it will save a lot of handling and we'll have the time. They're working only two shifts in only one stope, you know. Lack of people. But ninetenths of their equipment is as dead as King Tut and the rest of it starts falling apart every time anybody gives any of it a stern look -- I was scared spitless all shift that we'd be running out of air or power, or both, any minute. So we'll have to do one generator and at least one compressor tonight; so you might as well start getting the stuff ready for me." IF "It's ready. HI send it down as soon as it gets good and dark. In the meantime, how about Brother Rat? Have you anyone watching him?" "No, I didn't think it was necessary. But it might be, at that. From up there, would you say?" "Definitely. And Shiro and Lotus haven't much to do at the moment, ni make arrangements." "Do that, guy, and so long 'till dark." "Just a sec, Dick," Dorothy said then. "I'm not done with you yet. You remembered the no-neighbors bit, I think?" "I sure did, Honey-Chile. No neighbors within half a mile. So, any dark of the moon, slip down here in one of the fifteen-footers and all will be well." "You big, nice man," Dorothy purred. "Comes dark, comes me! an' you can lay to that." C ountless parsecs away, DuQuesne made proper entry into the Solar System, put his Capital D into a parking orbit around Earth, and began to pick up his tremendous order of machine tools and supplies. It went well; Brookings had done his job. There was, however, one job DuQuesne had to do for himself. During the loading, accordingly, he went in person to Washington, D.C., to the Rare Metals Laboratory, and to Room #. That room's door was open. He tapped lightly on it as he entered the room. He closed the door gently behind him. "Park it," a well-remembered contralto voice said. Bc with you in a moment." "No rush." DuQuesne sat down, crossed his legs, lighted a cigarette, and gazed at the woman seated at her electronics panel. Both her eyes were buried in the light-shield of a binocular eyepiece; both her hands were manipulating vernier knobs in tiny arcs. "Oh! Hi, Blackie! Be with you in half a moment." "No sweat, Hunkie. Finish your obs." "Natch." Her attention had not wavered for an instant from her instruments; it did not waver then. In a minute or so she pressed a button, her panel went dark, and she rose to her feet. "It's been a long time, Blackie," she said, stepping toward him and extending her hand. "It has indeed." He took her hand and began an encircling action with his left -- a maneuver which she countered, neatly but still smilingly, by grasping his left hand and holding it firmly. Tsk, tsk," she tsked. "The merchandise is on display, Blackie, but it is not to be handled. Remember?" "I remember. Still untouchable," he said. "That's right. You're a hard-nosed, possessive brute, Blackie -- any man to interest me very much would have to be, I suppose -- but no man bom is ever going to tell me what I can or can't do. Selah. But let's skip that." She released his hands, waved him to a chair, sat down, crossed her legs, accepted the lighted cigarette he handed her, and went on, "Thanks. The gossip was that you were all washed up and had, as Ferdy put it, 'taken it on the lam.' I didn't believe it then and I don't believe it now, I've been wanting to tell you; you're a good enough man so that whatever you're really after, you'll get." This woman could reach DuQuesne as no other woman ever had. "Thanks, Hunkie," he said; and, reaching out, he pressed her right hand hard then dropped it. "What I came up here for -- have you a date for Thursday evening that you can't or won't break?" Her smile widened; her two lovely dimples deepened. "Don't tell me; let me guess. Louisa Vinciughi in Lucia:' "Nothing else but. You .like?" "I love. With the usual stipulation -- we 'Dutch' it." "Listen, Hunkie!" he protested. "Aren't you ever going to get off of that 'Dutch' thing? Don't you think a man can take a girl out without having monkey-business primarily in mind?" S he considered the question thoughtfully, then nodded. "As stated, yes. Eliding the one word 'primarily', no. I've heard you called a lot of things, my friend, but 'stupid' was never one of them. Not even once." "I know." DuQuesne smiled, a trifle wryly. "You are not going to be obligated by any jot or iota or tittle to any man living or yet to be born." Her head went up a little and her smile became a little less warm. "That's precisely right, Marc. But I've never made any secret of the fact that I enjoy your company a lot. So, on that basis, okay and thanks." "On that basis, then, if that's the way it has to be, and thanks to you, too," DuQuesne said, and look his leave. And Thursday evening came; and all during that long and thoroughly pleasant evening the man was, to the girl's highly sensitive perception... well, different, although very subtly so. He was not quite, by some very small fraction, his usual completely poised and urbane self. Even Vinciughi's wonderful soprano voice did not bring him entirely back from wherever it was he was. Wherefore, just before saying goodnight at the door of her apartment, she said: "You have something big on your mind, Blackie. Tremendously big. Would it help to come in and talk a while?" This was the first time in all their long acquaintance that she had ever invited him into her apartment. "Or wouldn't it?" He thought for a moment. "No," he decided. "There are so many maybes and ifs and buts in the way that talking would be even more futile than thinking. But I'd like to ask you this: how much longer will you be here in Washington, do you think?" She caught her breath. "The Observer says it'll take me a year and and half to get what I should have." "That's fine," DuQuesne said. His thoughts were racing, but none of them showed. What were those observers doing? And why? He knew the kind of mind Stephanie de MarIF igny had -- they were feeding with a teaspoon a mind fully capable of gulping it down by the truckload... why? Whyl So as not to play favorites, probably -- that was the only reason he could think of. DuQuesne was playing for very high stakes; he could not afford to overlook any possibility, however remote. Had his interest in Hunkie de Marigny been deduced by the Norlaminians? Was it, in fact, possible -- even likely -- that he was under observation even now? Was their strange slowdown in her training meaningful? He could not answer; but he decided on caution. He went on with scarcely a noticeable pause, "I'll see you well before that -- if I may?" "Why, of course you may! Fd get an acute attack of the high dudgeons if you ever came to Washington without seeing me!" He took his leave then, and she went into her apartment and closed the door... and stood there, motionless, listening to his receding footsteps with a far-away, brooding look in her deep brown eyes, The Coup A s the days had passed, more and more of the Skylarkers had come to ground in Seaton's temporary home on the planet Ray-SeeNee; until many of them, especially Dorothy, were spending most of their nights there. On this particular evening they were all there. Since the personal gravity-controls had been perfected long since, Dimark and Sitar were comfortable enough as far as gravity was concerned. The engineers, however, had not yet succeeded in incorporating really good ambient-atmosphere temperature-controllers into them; wherefore he was swathed in wool and she wore her fabulous mink coat. They each wore two Osndmian machine pistols instead of one, and they sat a couple of feet apart -- in instant readiness for any action that might become necessary. Lotus and Shiro, a little closer together than the two Osnomians but not enough so to get into each other's way, sat cross-legged on the floor. He was listening intently, while she wasn't. Almost everything that was being said was going completely over her head. Dorothy, Margaret, and Crane sat around a small table, fingering tall glasses in which ice-cubes tinkled faintly. Seaton paced the floor, with his right hand in his breeches pocket and his left holding his pipe, which he brandished occasionally in the air to emphasize a point. "Considering that we can't do anything at all on unmuffled high-order stuff except when an ore-scow is here, masking our emanations," Seaton was saying, "we haven't done too bad. However, I wouldn't wonder if we'd just about run out of time and we're right between the devil and the deep blue sea. Mart, what's your synthesis?" Crane sipped his drink and cleared his throat. "You're probably right in one respect, Dick. They apparently make a spectacle of these detructions of cities; not for the Chlorans' amusement -- I doubt very much if they enjoy or abhor anything, as we understand the term -- but to keep the rest of the population of this world in line. Whether or not the quisling dictator of this world arranged for this city to be the next sacrifice, it is certain that we have interfered with the expected course of events to such an extent that the powers-that-be will at least investigate. But I can't quite see the dilemma." "I can," Dorothy said. "They have to have a grisly example, once every so often; and since this one didn't develop on schedule maybe they'll go crying to mama instead of trying to handle us themselves. You see, they may know more about us than we think they do." "That's true, of course -- " Crane began, but Seaton broke in. "So I say it's time to let Ree-Toe Prenk in on the whole deal and add him to our Council of War," he declared, and talk went on. They were still discussing the situation twenty minutes later, when someone tapped gently on the front door. T he Osnomians leaped to their feet, pistols in all four hands. The two Japanese leaped to their feet and stood poised, knees and elbows slightly flexed, ready for action. Forty-five-caliber automatics appeared in the hands of the three at the table, and Crane flipped his remote control helmet onto his head. Seaton, magnum in hand, snapped on the outside lights and peered out through the recently installed oneway glass of the door. "Speak of the devil," he said in relief. "It's Hizzoner." He opened the door wide and went on, "Come in, Your Honor. We were just talking about you." Prenk came in, his eyes bulging slightly at the sight of the arsenal of armament now being put back into holsters. They bulged still more as he looked at the Japanese, and he gulped as he stared fascinatedly at the green-skinned Osnomians. "I knew, of course, within a couple of days," Prenk said then, quietly, "that you who call yourself Ky-El Mokak were not confining your statements to the exact truth. No wilder could possibly have done what you were doing; but by that time I knew that you, whoever you were, were really on our side. I had no suspicion until this moment, however, that you were actually from another world. I thought that your speech to the miners was what you said it was going to be, 'a shot in the arm of hope'. It now seems more than slightly possible that you were talking about the very matters I came here tonight to see you about. Certain supplies, you will remember." "I remember. I lied to you, yes. Wholesale and retail. But how else could I have made the approach, the mood you were in, without blowing everything higher than up?" "Your technique was probably the best possible, I admit." "Okay. Yes, we're from a galaxy so far away from here that you could barely find it with the biggest IF telescope this world ever had. Our business at the moment is to wipe out every Chloran in this region of space, but we can't do it without -- among other things -- a lot more data than we now have. And we'll need weeks of time, mostly elsewhere, for preparation. "But before we go too deeply into that you must meet my associates. People, this is His Honor ReeToe Prenk; what you might call the Mayor of the City of Ty-Ko-Ma of the Planet Ray-See-Nee. You know all about him. Ree-Toe, this is Hi-Fi Mokak, my wife -- Lo-Test and HiTest Crane, husband and wife -- " and he went on with two more pairs of coined names. "Hi-Fi indeedl" Dorothy snorted, under her breath, in English. "Just you wait 'til I get you alone tonight, you egregious clown!" "Wha'd'ya mean 'clown'?" he retorted. "Try your hand sometime at inventing seven names on the spur of the moment!" S eaton then put on a headset, slipped one over Prenk's head, and said in thought: "This is what is left -- the residue, you might say -- of our mobile base the Skylark of Valeron, and went on to show him and to describe to him the Great Brain, the immense tankchart of the entire First Universe, the tremendous driving engines and even more tremendous engines of offense and of defense. Prenk was held spellbound and speechless, for this "residue", hundreds of kilometers in diameter and weight, was so utterly beyond any artificial structure Prenk had ever imagined that he simply could not grasp its magnitude at all. And when Seaton went on to show him a full mental picture of what that base had been before the battle witfi the Ghlorans and what it would have to be before they could begin to move against the ChJorans -- the one-thousand kilometer controlcircles, the thousands of cubic kilometers of solidly packed offensive and defensive gear, the scores of fantastically braced and buttressed layers of inoson that composed the worldlet's outer skin -- he was so strongly affected as to be speechless in fact. 'T...I see. That is... a little, maybe..." he stammered, then subsided into silence. "Yes, it is a bit big to get used to all at once," Seaton agreed. "It needs a lot of work. Some we're doing; some of it can't be done anywhere near here; but we don't want to leave without being reasonably sure that you and your people will be alive when we get back. So we want a lot of information from you." "I'll be glad to tell you everything I know or can find out." "Thanks. Ideas, first. How much do you think the quisling Big Shots actually know? What do you think they'll do about it? What do you think His Magnificence the Dictator will do? And what should we do about what he thinks he's going to do? In a few days we'll want all the information you can get -- facts, names, dates, places, times, and personnel. Also one sample copy f each and every item of equipment desired; with numbers wanted and limes and places of delivery. Brother Frenk, you have the floor." "One advantage of a small town tnd a group like ours," Prenk said, slowly, "is that everybody knows everybody else's business. Thus, we all knew who the spies were, but the people were all so low in their minds that they simply did not care whether they lived or died. We had done our best and had failed; most of us had given up hope completely. Now, however, the few remaining spies have been locked up and are under control. They and the overseers are still reporting, but -- " he smiled wolfishly -- "they are saying precisely and only what I tell them to say. This condition can't last very long; but, after what you just showed me. I'm pretty sure I can make it last long enough. We have organized a really efficient force of guerilla fighters and our plans for the capital are..." A couple of weeks later, then, three hundred fifty-eight highly trained men and one highly trained woman set out. A woman? Yes. Dorothy had protested vigorously. "But Sitar! You aren't going, surely? Surely you're staying home?" "Staying homeV the green girl had blazed. "The First Wife of a prince of Osnome goes with her prince wherever he goes. She fights beside him, at need she dies beside him. Would you have him die fighting and me live an hour? I'd blow myself to bits!" "My God!" Dorothy had gasped, and had stared, appalled. "That's right," Seaton had told her. "Their ethics, mores and customs differ more than somewhat from ours, you know." And nothing more had been said about Sitar being a member of the Expeditionary Force. Prenk's guerrillas had infiltrated the capital city by ones and twos; no group ever larger than two. Each one wore the costume of an easily recognizable class of citizen. They were apparently artisans and workmen, soldiers, sailors, clerks, businessmen, tycoons of industry. Nor were the watches they all wore on their wrists any more alike than were their costumes -- except in one respect. They all told the same time, to the tenth of a split second, and they all were kept in sync by pulses from a tiny power-pack that had been hidden in a tree in the outskirts of the city. At time zero minus thirty minutes, three hundred fifty-nine persons began to enter into and to distribute themselves throughout an immense building that resembled a palace or a cathedral much more than the Capitol building even of a world. At time zero minus four seconds all those persons, who had in the meantime been doing inconspicuous this and innocuous that, changed direction toward or began to walk toward or kept on walking toward their objectives. At time zero on the tick, three hundred fifty-nine knives came out of concealment and that exact number of persons fell. IF S ome of the guerrillas remained on guard where their victims lay. Others went into various offices on various businesses. On the top-most floor four innocent-looking visitors blasted open the steel door of Communications and shot the four operators then on duty. The leader of the four invaders stepped up to the master-control desk, shoved a body aside, flipped three or four switches, and said: "Your attention, please! These programs have been interrupted to announce that former Premier DaBay Saien and his sycophants have been executed for high treason. Primier Ree-Toe Prenk and his loyalists are now the government. Business is to go on as usual; no new orders will be issued except as they become necessary. That is all. Scheduled programs will now be resumed." It was not as easy everywhere, however, as that announcement indicated. By the very nature of things, the information secured by the counterspies was incomplete and sometimes, especially in fine detail, was wrong. Thus, when Seaton took his post on the fifteenth floor, standing before and admiring a heroicsize bronze statue of a woman strangling a boa constrictor whose coils enveloped half her height, he saw that there were four guards, instead of the two he had expected to find, at the door of the office that was his objective. But he couldn't -- wouldn't -- call for help. They hadn't had man-power enough to carry spares. He'd trip the S O S if necessary, but not until it became absolutely necessary -- but that office had to be put out of business time zero plus fifteen seconds. He'd just have to act twice as fast, was all. Cursing silently the fact that his magnum was not to be used during the first few silent seconds of the engagement, he watched the four men constantly out of the corners of his eyes, planning every detail of his campaign, altering those details constantly as the guards changed ever so slightly their positions and postures. He could get three of them, he was siie, before any one of them could fire; but he'd have to be lucky as well as fast to get the fourth in time -- and if the ape had time to take any kind of aim at all it would be very ungood. On the tick of zero time Seaton shed his businessman's cloak and took off. Literally. His knife swept through the throat of the nearest guard before that luckless ight had moved a muscle. He kicked the second, who was bending over at the moment, on and through the temple with the steel-lined toe of one highly special sure-grip fighting shoe. He stabbed the third, whose throat was protected at that instant by an upflung left arm, through the left side of the rib-cage, twisting his blade as he pulled it out. Ultra-fast as Seaton had been, the fourth guard had had time to lift his weapon, but he had not had time to aim it, or even to point it properly. He fired in panic, before his gun was pointed even waist-high. If Seaton had stayed upright the bullet would have missed him completely. But he didn't. He ducked and sidestepped and twisted -- and the heavy slug tore a long and savage wound across the left side of his back. One shot was all the fellow got, of course. Seaton kicked the door open and leaped into the room, magnum high and ready. The noise of that one shot might have tom it, but good. "Freeze, everybody!" he rasped, and everyone in the big room froze. "One move of any finger toward any button and I blast. This office is closed temporarily. Leave the building, all of you; right now and fast. Just as you are. Come back in here after lunch for business as usual. Scram!" T he office force -- some nonchalantly, some wonderingly, some staring at Seaton in surprise -- "scrammed" obediently. AH, that is, except one girl who came last; the girl who had been sitting at an executive-type desk beside the door of the inner office. She was a fairly tall girl; with hazel eyes and with dark brown hair arranged in up-tothe-second "sunburst" style. Her close-fitting white nylon ipcr garment and her even tighter fire-engine-red tights displayed a figure that could not be described as being merely adequate. Instead of passing him as the others had done she stopped, held out both hands in indication of having nothing except peaceable intentions, and peered around his left side. Then, bringing her eyes back to his, she said, "You're bleeding terribly, sir. It doesn't seem to be very deep IF -- entrance and exit holes in your shirt are only four or five inches apart -- but you're losing an awful lot of blood. Won't you let me give you first aid? I'm a quite competent nurse, sir." What?" Seaton demanded, but whatever he had intended to add to that one word was forestalled by a bellow of wrath from behind the just-opening door of the inner office. "Kay-Lee! You shirking slut! How much more of this do you think you can get away with? When I buzz you you jump or I'll cut your bloody -- " The man broke off sharply and goggled at what he saw. He was a pasty-faced, paunchy man of forty; very evidently self-indulgent and as evidently completely at a loss at the moment. "Come in, Bay-Lay Boyn," Seaton said. "Slowly, if you don't want your brains to decorate the ceiling. Did you ever see a man shot in the head with a magnum pistol?" The man gulped and licked his lips. The girl broke the very short silence. "Whatever you do to that poisonous slob, sir, I hope it's nothing trivial. I'd love to see his brains spattered all over the ceiling and I'd never let them be washed off. I'd look up at them week after week and gloat." "Kay-Lee dear, you don't mean that! You can't mean it!" the man implored. "Do something! Please do something! I'll double your salary -- I'll make you a First -- I'll give you a diamond necklace -- I'll -- " "You'll shut your filthy lying mouth. Your Exalted' she said -- quietly, but with an icily venemous contempt that made Seaton stare. "I've taken all the raps for you I'm ever going to." She turned to Seaton. "Please believe, sir, that no matter who your people are or what you do, any possible change will be for the better. And I remind you -- if you don't want to fall flat on your face from weakness you'll let me dress that wound." "I wouldn't wonder," Seaton admitted. "Blood's running down into my shoes already and it's beginning to hurt like the devil. So get your kit. But before you start on me we'll use some three-inch bandage to lash that ape's hands around that pillor there." T hat done, Seaton peeled to the waist and the girl went expertly to work. She sprayed the nastylooking wound, which was almost but not quite a deep but open groove, with antiseptic and with coagulant. She cross-taped its ragged edges together with blood-proof adhesive tape. She sponged most of the liquid blood off of his back. She sprinkled half a can of curative-antiseptic powder; she taped on thick pads of sterile gauze. She wrapped -- and taped into place -- roll after roll of three-inch bandage around his body and up over his shoulder and around his neck. Then she stood back and examined her handiwork, eyes narrowed in concentration. "That'll do it for a while," she decided. "I suppose you'll be too busy to take any time today, but you'll have to get that sewed up not later than tomorrow forenoon." lady; it feels a lot better already," and Seaton bent over to pick up his shirt and undershirt. "But you can't wear those bloody rags!" she protested, then went on, "But I don't know of anything else around here that you can wear, at that." Seaton grinned. "No quandary -- I'll go the way I am. Costume or the lack of it isn't important at the moment." He glanced at his watch and was surprised to see how very few minutes had elapsed. "Shall I go now, sir?" "Not yet." Seaton was used to making fast decisions, and they were usually right. He made one now. "I take it you were that ape's confidential secretary." "Yes, sir, I was." "So you know more about the actual workings of the department than he does and can run it as well. To make a snap judgment, can run it better than he has been running it." "Much better, sir," she said, flatly. "I've covered up for his drunken blunderings twice in the last two months. He passed the buck to me and I took it. A few lashes are much better than what he revels in doing to people; especially since he can't touch me now. He knows that after taking his floggings I'd go under hypnosis and tell everything I know about him if he tried to lay a finger on me." "Lashes? Floggings? I see." Seaton's face hardened. "Okay, you're it." He took a badge out of his pocket, slid its slip out of its holder. and handed the slip to Kay-Lee. "Type on this your name and his rating and title and turn your recorder on." She did so. He glanced at the slip, replaced it in its holder, and pinned the badge in place just above the girl's boldly outstanding left breast. "I, Ky-El Mokak, acting for and with the authority of Premier Ree-Toe Prenk, hereby make you, Kay-Lee Barlo, an Exalted of the Twenty-Sixth and appoint you Head of the Department of Public Works. I hereby charge you. Your Exalted, to so operate your department as to prevent, not to cause, the destruction of persons and of property by those enemies of all mankind the Chlorans." He stepped to the desk; cut the recorder off. F or the first time, the girl's taut self-control was broken. "Do you mean I can actually clean this pig-sty up?" she demanded, tears welling into her eyes. "That you actually want me to clean it up?" "Just that. You'll be briefed at a meeting of the new department heads late this afternoon. In the rueantime start your house-cleaning as soon as you like after your people get back from lunch; and I don't have to tell you how to act. Have you got or can you get a good hand-gun?" "Yes, sir, there's a very good one -- his -- in his desk. I was trying to get up nerve enough to ask you for it." "It's yours as of now. Can you use it? That's probably a foolish question." IF "I'll say I can use it! I made Pistol Expert One when I was eleven and I've been improving ever since." "Fine!" He glanced again at his watch. "Go get it, be sure it's loaded, buckle it on and wear it. Show your badge, play the recording and lay down the law. If there's any argument, shoot to kill. We aren't fooling." He glanced at the prisoner. "He'll be out of your way. I'm taking him downstairs pretty soon to answer some questions." "I -- I thank you, sir. I can't tell you how much. But you -- I mean... well, I -- " the girl was a study in mixed emotions. Her nostrils flared and her whole body was tense with the beyond-imagining thrill of what had just occurred; but at the same time she was so acutely embarrassed that she could scarcely talk. "I want to tell you, sir, that I wasn't trying to curry..." She broke off in confusion and gulped twice. "Curry? I know you weren't. You aren't the toadying type. That's one reason you got it -- but just a second." He looked again at his watch and did not put it down; but in a few seconds raised the ring to his lips and asked, "Are you there, Ree-Toe?" "Here, Ky-El," the tiny ring-voice said. "Mission accomplished, including selection and installation of department head." "Splendid! Are you hurt?" "Not badly. Scratch across my back. How're we doing?" "Better even than expected. The Premier is dead, I don't know yet exactly how. All your people are all right except for some not-tooserious wounds. Ours, only ten dead reported so far. The army came over to a man. You have earned a world's thanks this day, Ky-El, and its eternal gratitude." Seaton blushed. "Skip it, chief. Any change in schedule?" "None." "Okay. Off." Seaton, lowering his hand to his side, turned to KayLee. She, who had not quite been able to believe all along that all this was actually happening to her, was staring at him in wide-eyed awe. "You are a biggie!" she gasped. "A great big biggie. Your Exalted, to talk to the Premier himself like that! So this unbelievable appointment will stick!" "It will stick. Definitely. So chin high and don't spare the horses, Your Exalted; and I'll see you at the meeting. Until then, so-long." Seaton cut his prisoner loose and half-led, half-dragged him, gibbering and begging, out of the room. Almost Seaton regretted it was over; the work on Ray-See-Nee had been pleasurable, as well as useful. But -- now he had his base of operations, unknown to the Chlorans, on a planet they thought safely their own. Now he could go on with his campaign against them. Seaton was well aware that the universe held other enemies than the Chlorans, but his motto was one thing at a time. However, it is instructive now to see just what two of those inimical forces were up to at this one -- one which knew it was in trouble... and one which did notl DuQuesne and Fenachrone B efore the world of the Fenachrone was destroyed by Civilization's superatomic bombs it was a larger world than Earth, and a denser, and with a surface gravity very much higher. It was a world of steaming jungle; of warm and reeking fog; of tepid, sullenly steaming water; of fantastically lush vegetation unknown to Earthly botany. Wind there was none, nor sunshine. Very seldom was the sun of that reeking world visible at all through the omnipresent fog, and then only as a pale, wan disk; and what of its atmosphere was not fog was hot and humid and sulphurously stinking air. And as varied the worlds, so varied the people. The Fenachrone, while basically humanoid, were repulsively and monstrously short, wide and thick. They were immensely strong physically, and their mentalities were as monstrous as their civilization was many thousands of years older than that of Earth; their science was equal to ours in most respects and ahead of it in some. Most monstrous of all the facets of Fenachrone existence, however, was their basic philosophy of life. Might was right. Power was not only the greatest good; it was the only good. The Fenachrone were the able destiny it was to be the unquestionable masters of the entire spacetime continuum -- of the summated totality of the Cosmic All. For many thousands of years nothing had happened to shake any Fenachrone's rock-solid conviction of the destiny of their race. Progress along the Master-Race line had been uninterrupted. In fact, it had never been successfully opposed. The Fenachrone had already wiped out, without really extending themselves, all the other civilizations within a hundred parsecs or so of their solar system. But up to the time of Emperor Fenor no ruler of the Fenachrone had become convinced that the time had come to set the Day of Conquest -- the day upon which the Big Push was to begin. But rash, headstrong, egomaniacal Fenor insisted upon setting The Day in his own reign -- which was why First Scientist Fleet Admiral Sleemet had set up his underground so long before. He was just as patriotic as any other member of his race; just as thoroughly sold on the idea of the inevitable ultimate supremacy over all created things wherever situated; but his computations did not indicate that success was as yet quite certain. How right Sleemet was! He knew that he was right after hearing the first few words of Sacner Carfon's ultimatum to Emperor Fenor: that was why he had pushed the panic button for the eighty-fivethousand-odd members of his faction to flee the planet right then. IF He knew it still better when, after Fenor's foolhardy defiance of Sacner Carfon, of the Overlord, and of the Forces of Universal Peace, his native planet became a minor sun behind his flying fleet. Even then, however, Sleemet had not learned very much -- at least, nowhere nearly enough. A t first glance it might seem incredible that, after such an experience, Sleemet could have so lightly destroyed two such highly industrialized worlds about which he knew so little. It might seem as though it must have been impressed upon his mind that the Fenachrone were not the ablest, strongest, wisest, smartest, most highly advanced and most powerful form of life ever created. Deeper study will show, however, that with his heredity and conditioning he could not possibly have done anything else. Sleemet probably did not begin really to realize the truth until the Llurd Klazmon so effortlessly -- apparently -- wiped out sixteen of his seventeen superdreadnoughts, then crippled his flagship beyond resistance or repair and sent it hurtling through space toward some completely unknown destination. His first impulse, like that of all his fellows, was to storm and to rage and to hurl things and to fight. But there was no one to fight; and storming and raging and hurling and smashing things did not do any good. In fact, nothing they could do elicited any attention at all from their captors. Wherefore, as days stretched out endlessly and monotonously into endless and monotonous weeks, all those five-thousand-odd Fenachrone -- males and females, adults and teen-agers and children and babies -- were forced inexorably into a deep and very un-Fenachronian apathy. And when the hulk of the flagship arrived at the Llanzlanate on far Llurdiax, things went immediately from bad to worse. The volume of space into which the Fenachrone were moved had a climate exactly like that of their native city on their native world. All its artifacts -- its buildings, and its offices and its shops and its foods and its drinks and its everything else -- were precisely what they should have been. Ostensibly, they were encouraged to live lives even more normal than ever before (if such an expression is allowable); to breed and to develop and to evolve; and especially to perform break-throughs in science. Actually, however, it was practically impossible for them to do anything of their own volition; because they were being studied and analyzed and tested every minute of every day. Studied coldly and logically and minutely; with an utterly callous ferocity unknown to even such a ferocious race as the Fenachrone themselves were. Hundreds upon hundreds of the completely helpless captives died -- died without affecting in any smallest respect the treatment received by the survivors and as their utter helplessness struck in deeper and deeper, the Fenachrone grew steadily weaker, both physically and mentally. This was no surprise to their captors, the Llurdi. Nor was it in any sense a disappointment. To them the Fenachrone were tools; and they were being tempered and shaped to their task... O n Earth, leaving Stephanie de Marigny's apartment, DuQuesne went back to the Capital D and took off on course one hundred seventy-five Universal -- that is, five degrees east of Universal South. He went that way because in that direction lay the most completely unexplored sector of the First Universe and he did not want company. Earth and the First Galaxy lay on the edge of the First Quadrant. Llurdiax and its Realm lay in the Second. So did the Empire of the Chlorans and his own imaginary planet Xylmny. The second galaxy along that false line, which might also attract Seaton, lay in the Third. He didn't want any part of Richard Ballinger Seaton -- yet -- and this course was mathematically the best one to take to get out of and keep out of Seaton's way. Therefore he would follow it clear out to the Fourth Quadrant rim of the First Universe. As the Capital D bored a hole through the protesting ether DuQuesne took time out from his thinkings to consider women. First, he considered Stephanie de Marigny; with a new and not at all unpleasant thrill as he did so. He considered Sennlloy and Luloy and some unattached women of the Jelmi. They all left him completely cold; and he was intellectually honest enough to know why and to state that "why" to himself. The Jelmi were so much older than the humanity of Earth that they were out of his class. He could stand equality -- definitely; in fact, that was what he wanted -- but he could not live with and would not try to live with any woman so demonstrably his superior. But Hunkie -- ah, there was a man's woman! His equal; his perfect equal in every respect; with a brain to match one of the finest bodies ever built. She didn't play hard to get, she was hard to get; but once got she'd stay got. She'd stand at a man's back 'till his belly caved in. Slowed to a crawl, as Universal speed goes, the Capital D entered the outermost galaxy of the Rim of the Universe and DuQuesne energized his highest-powered projector. He studied the Tellus-Type planets of hundreds of solar systems. Many of these planets were inhabited, but he did not reveal himself to the humanity of any of them. He landed on an uninhabited planet and went methodically to work. He bulldozed out an Area of Work. He set up his batteries of machine tools; coupling an automatic operator of pure force to each tool as it was set up. Then he started work on the Brain; which took longer than all the rest of the construction put together. It was an exact duplicate of that of the Skylark of Valeron; one cubic mile of tightly packed ultra-miniaturized components; the most tremendous and most tremenIF dously capable super-computer known to man. While the structure of the two were not. As has been said, there were certain volumes -- blocks of cells -- in the Valeron's brain that DuQuesne had not been able to understand. These blocks he left inoperative -- for the time being. Conversely, DuQuesne either had or wanted powers and qualities and abilities that Seaton neither had nor wanted; hence certain blocks that were as yet inoperative in Seaton's vast fabrication were fully operative in DuQuesne's. I t is a well-known fact that whitecollar men, who sit at desks and whose fellowship with machines is limited to week-end drives in automobiles, scoff heartily at the idea that any two machines of the same make and model do or can act differently from each other except by reason of wear. With increasing knowledge of an acquaintance with machines, however -- especially with mechanisms of the more complex and sophisticated sorts -- this attitude changes markedly. The men and women who operate such machines swear unanimously that those machines do unquestionably have personalities; each its unique and peculiar own. Thus, while the fact can not be explained in logical or "common" sense terms, those two giants brains were as different in personality as were the two men who built them. Nor was DuQuesne's worldlet, which he named the DQy very much like the Skylark of Valeron except in shape. It was bigger. Its skin was much thicker and much denser and much more heavily armed. The individual mechanisms were no larger -- the Valeron" s . were the biggest and most powerful that DuQuesne knew how to build -- but there were so many of them that he was pretty sure of being safe from anyone. Even from whoever it was that had mauled the Valeron so unmercifully -- whom he, DuQuesne, did not intend to approach. Ever. It was, in fact, his prayerful hope that both mauler and maulee -- Seaton himself -- would ultimate ly emerge from that scuffle whittled down to a size where he would not have to consider them again. He did not, in fact, consider them; nor did he consider the captive Fenachrone in the pens of Llurdiax; nor the Jelmi; nor -- and this, perhaps, was his greatest mistake -- did he consider, because he did not know about, a mother and daughter of whose existence neither he nor any other Tellus-type human being had yet heard. He simply built himself the most powerspace vessel he could imagine, armed it, launched it... and set out to recapture the Universe Seaton had once taken away from him. The Place Where Readers And Editor Meet... Dear Editor: I'm afraid this is going to be another of those rambling commentaries on just about everything -- so brace yourself. I'm glad to see you've finally started Skylark DuQuesne. After reading the first installment I conclude it was worth the wait. I was quite relieved to see that Smith is writing in the same general style as the other three Skylarks; it becomes Seaton and his N-order forces. Not to mention adding continuity even after a lapse of more than # years. One thing I've always admired about Smith (not to mention Heinlein, Cordwainer Smith and a few others) is his skill at making his civilizations detailed. Burroughs did it, but clumsily, Heinlein does it in bits and snatches, and very few others do it. If makes the story more real if it seems to have a history behind it, and this adds to my enjoyment of a story. Others may find it a waste of words, which is fine with me -- it's a free country. Which brings up a question. What would you advise to a person with a detailed and realistic civilization. with a detailed history and culture, who lacks skill to write a really good story around it? I'm afraid I've become a Gree fan. The series is very Interesting and if it keeps up its standards it should become a Retief-type mainstay of the magazine (or has it already?). The first story of the four was the best; I'd like to see more of Jen. He sparks up the stories a little, and makes a much better protection than a 'Gunner's Uniform" when in a hive. Unless I'm mistaken, there will soon be an announcement of a novel, and in this novel Earth will be taken. Or will that be their Holy Grail? I should think Gree's forces will eventually wise up to Duke's (thrice-used) method and there ought to be some really good stories. As to your "Out of the Idiot Box" editorial : What makes you think strong it won't be just as bad as ills of TV. Even at the present there are very few stations which do not and movies plus a few inexpensive local telecasts. It would take a trong, wealthy organization to have the kind of network (it would have to be a network) you suggest. They would need to be strong to absorb the losses they would incur until the public sensed the superiority of their programming. Another disadvantage that must be overcome is poorly, at best. (Possibly this is a local condition, but I doubt it.) The ultimate responsibility lies with the general viewing public, and from past performance they are not going to be any help. The only thing that could be done now is nationalization, but that is not much of a practical solution. cy doesnt make a station good. As for the lettercol, dont expand it, just print it in the microscopic type of the old days. That way you'd get more letters in, and wouldn't offend those who are against letters. The rating space suggested in the June issue would be great, it's got my vote. More Cordwainer Smith (who is he, for real?), more Laumer, more MacApp, more Leinster, more newcomers (best idea in sf history), and more you ( ! ) . In response to David Lyon, could it be C.H. Fontenay's Silk and the Song he's after? They seem to be the same story. Maybe Crystal Tower was a long adaption of it? If you could improve your covers you'd improve your circulation. I think you ought to keep the style you had on the Jan. # issue as a permanent fixture. At least keep a white border around the illo, and let Morrow do more of those -- he's the best illustrator I've seen in years, -- David Lebling, # Rollins Ct., Rockville, Md. #. # If you've got a good idea for a story, there's only one thing to do. Write it. It's really the only way... unless you happen to know a writer who's short on ideas. But with most sf writers they'd rather think up their own. -- Editor,    Dear Editor: I bought the April issue of If a few days ago, the first I'd seen in a couple of years. I must say that it is much improved. Grees Hellcats was very good; how about some more by C. C. MacApp? Did he write The Slaves of Creel Also, is it possible to get some back issues of ? -- John W. Cook, Box #, Harlem, Georgia #.  Yes, MacApp wrote all the Gree stories -- including Greeks P'r.ined Ones, coming up next month. And you can get back copies of If, Galaxy or Worlds of Tomorrow at #c a copy, regardless of original cover price, by writing our Back Number Department care of this magazine. Only issues for the years #-# inclusive are available at present. -- Editor.   Dear Editor: I've been a reader of If and Galaxy for a couple of years now and your stories get better and better. -- Paul Hinds, # #th Street, Kenosha, Wisconsin.  Dear Editor: I just finished your two-parter. The Altar at Asconel, and thought it was fine. Let's have more of this type of story, the adventure type as made famous by Burroughs, Howard and others of their school. Keep up your good work. Incidentally, if anyone is interested I have a fairly large stock of science-fiction magazines I would like to sell -- Bill Franklin, P.O. Box #, Hickory, North Carolina.    Dear Editor: IVe seen how readers try to locate stories through Hue and Cry and IVe helped two in finding them. Now I wonder if somebody might be able to help me. I'm trying the first sf magazines I ever read. One of them had a cover showing a large, glittering diamond on which two women were fighting. The story concerned a plot by otherdimensional beings to kidnap humans by luring them into "diamonds" by sexual enticements. Once one of these "diamond" gateways is used, it takes on the look of a burntout fuse. An agent from a top secret intelligence organization enters the other dimension and rescues the prisoners but leaves the gate open to await a time when the aliens can be destroyed. Another had a story called Pink Puppy Dog which dealt with asteroid mining. As I recall the same magazine carried stories about two men in some horrible future war beauty (a flower) and a time when the Earth is dying and almost depopulated and one person goes killcrazy. There was one about a time when the population explosion was so great that the forests were removed to house people. The hero is arrested because he owned some wood but it develops that the hero could explain having wood because he had been growing a tree in secret. Another was about the reactions of a spaceship crew to the new captain: a woman. Space travel is pictured as almost slavery. I recall that the radiation had made everybody on the ship bald. -- James Edward Turner, Box #, Pilot Knob, Missouri #.    Dear Editor: Retief was the 'cause of me buying If regularly. By what lucky chance did you get Laumer to sell the Retief stories to you exclusively? -- Arthur W. Jordin, #I McCallis Avenue, Chattanooga, Tennessee #. # No chance about it, friend! We saw the first one, we liked it, we demanded more -- and Laumer, who is an obliging soul, has just quit his Air Force captaincy to devote full time to turning them (and other first-rate science fiction) out; so there'll be more in the future! That would seem to be about as far as the type stretches this issue. As you Old Hands know, in each issue of If we bring you a story by a New Hand, a writer who hasn't ever before been published and who looks to us like someone who should be. This month's is J.M. McPadden, exnaval officer and someone you'll be seeing again. (That's an easy prediction for us to make this time: We already own another of McFadden's stories, called Mercuryy upcoming soon.) And speaking of Firsts, next month we start something that strikes us as a First. If you don't know yet what it is you obviously skipped the editorial this issue. Take a look at it. We think you'll agree that if not totally unprecedented, it is at least an unusual thing for a magazine to do -- and a pleasant one ! -- The Editor, IF Your Subscription is Your Private Window On the stars in our galaxy The only thing we know about tomorrow is that it has its roots today. And out of the fantastic facts of today's scientific wonders Galaxy's all-star lineup of contributors weave stories that are sometimes wry, sometimes terrifying  but always a delight to read. Would you like to join us, next issue and every issue thereafter for years to come, on this fascinating exploration of the fears and foibles of tomorrow? All it takes is a check, a Stamp and a minute of your time. (If you prefer not to tear the coupon out of your magazine, just give us the information requested on a plain piece of paper.) From then on the mails will bring Galaxy to your door, with the best stories being written by the best science-fiction writers of all time. Here are some of the famous stories that appeared in Galaxy in its first fifteen years. Will the next fifteen years be as good? Frankly, we don't think so. We think they'll be better! Galaxy Publishing Corp. #I Hudson Street New York, N.Y. #     # Yes, start my subscription to Galaxy right away. I enclose my check or money order for:   n # issues for # Q # issues for #  rName  Address   d City  State Zip Code J U.S. only. Add #c per issue foreign postage.  Please check whether Q new or  renewal.  Baby Is Three Theodore Sturgeon The Ballad of Lost C'Mell Cordwainer Smith The Big Time Fritz Leiber The Caves of Steel Isaac Asimov Day After Doomsday Poul Anderson The Demolished Man Alfred Bester Do I Wake or Dream? Frank Herbert The Dragon Masters Jack Vance The Fireman (Farenheit #S#) Ray Bradbury Gravy Planet (The Space Merchants; Pohl  Kornbluth Here Gather the Stars (Way Station) Clifford D. Simak Home from the Shore Gordon R. Dickson Hot Planet Hal Clement King of the City Keith Laumer Mindswap Robert Sheckley Med Ship Man Murray Leinster The Men in the Walls The Old Die Rich H. L. Gold The Puppet Masters Robert A. Heinlein Surface Tension James Blish The Visitor at the Zoo Damon Knight Wind between the Worlds Lester del Rey won't run off with your books if you put inside the front cover of each book... a gummed bookplate with your name printed on it! No, GF-# by Emsh No. GF-# by Emsh The umpteenth corollary of Finagle's General Law of Dynamic Negatives says: "No books are ever lost by loaning except ones you particularly want to keep." # for #; #, #; #, # with owner's name imprinted All Postpaid. Add stale sales lax, if any.  C. C. MacApp, Edward E. Smith iqd many others! Worlds of brings you the finest in science fiction Don't delaysend in your subscription order today of IF delivered to your door, bringing you stories by : f all your favorites in science fiction! His celebrated Retief stories and others appear regularl" in IF -- fast-moving, comic yarns of diplomatic skullduggery out on the frontiers of the stars! still to come! And now -- The Best of the Top Name Writers -- Robert A. Heinlein, Gordon R. Dickson, John Brunner, Hal Clement, Lester del Rey contribute to IF. -- and a Preview of Tomorrow's Best Each issue of IF brings you a brand-new writer, making his debut in science fiction in IF. Use this order blank or order by letter -- but don't delay! IF -- Subscription Department #I Hudson Street, New York, N. Y. # Yes, send me the next # issues ot IF! I enclose #  New  Renewal Name Address City State Zip No (Outside of N. and S. America add # for postage) Offer void after Dec. #, # Vol. #, No. # Frederik Pohl, Editor David Perton, Production Mgr. Robert M. Guinn, Publisher Diane Sullivan, Associate Editor Mavis Fisher, Sub. Mgr. IF published monthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, Robert M. Guinn, President, Vol. #, No. #. Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York #, New York. #c per copy. Subscriptions # issues # in the United States, Canada, Mexico, South America and Central America and U.S. possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All rights, including translations reserved. All material submitted must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelope. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories are fiction, and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in the U. S. A. by the Guinn Company, New York #, N. Y. IF  Editorial H appen you don't sleep well at night, and provided you live somewhere in the more-or-less Eastern part of the United States, you may well find yourself listening to the radio between the hours of midnight and five A.M. What brightens the air at those hours over radio all-night talk show whose presiding genius is a man named Long John Nebel. What Long John likes in guests for his radio program is the specialist in the far-out. One of the things he likes is science fiction, and he has had any number of science-fiction writers on the show at one time or another. Lester del Rey is a regular; so is Mike Girsdansky (who has been writing those fascinating future-science articles for us in Worlds of Tomorrow) ; so, for that matter, is the undersigned. Others who have appeared with Long John are James Blish, Theodore Sturgeon, Harry Harrison, Sam Moskowitz, Mel Hunter, John Campbell, Isaae Asimov -- well, the list could go on indefinitely, for John Nebel has filled a lot of air hours in the past decade. It was on a Long John show a couple of yfears ago, as a matter of fact, that your editor made some remarks about flying saucers which attracted the attention of a man named George W. Earley. George Earley is the Connecticut state representative for an organizavestigating Committee for Aerial Phenomena -- and he called us up in some irritation. You don't accept the evidence for flying saucers, he charged; and we admitted that that was true enough; we weren't a bit convinced. But have you really made any sort of investigation? he asked. Have you really looked, at the evidence? Or have you just made up logists a fair chance? We had to confess to Earley that he had called that one accurately. What he said was true. Everything we knew about Unidentified Flying Objects, contactees, space-people and so on could be put in a couple of newspaper headlines, because that essentially was where we'd got what little information we had. And when Earley pressed us we had to agree that this was not a particularly desirable way to make a decision. So we promised to do better. T hat was a little over a year ago. Since then, as time and opportunity permit, we have been repairing this obvious gap in our education as rapidly as we can. It isn't as easy as you might think. To begin with, all saucerdom is divided into two parts. Part I the movement, whose essential thesis is approximately as follows: "There have been over # reports of unidentified celestial objects in the past few years. They cannot all be mistakes or hoaxes. As a minimum, these facts demand a full-scale investigation by responsible authorities, conducted in public and with no attempt to disguise or protect under the guise of military security their findings. As a maximum, we consider it beyond doubt that the Earth is being visited by creatures from another planet." Part # is what are called the "contactees", and what they say is approximately this: "Earth has not only been visited from outer space, but many of us have talked with the spacemen, ridden in their strange saucer-shaped craft and learned from them many priceless secrets of science, technology and moral law -- besides being given advance notice of the assassination of President Kennedy, the flareup of war in Vietnam and the success of our and the Russian space probes." using in this sense to include a number of men and women who, for one reason or another, don't belong to opinion that the general case is proved and certainly needs more investigation, without going along with the claims of the contactees) includes a lot of technical, scientific and professional people, and it goes to a lot of trouble to secure as much verification as it can for every reof two. such attempts ourselves, we can testify that this is pretty hard to do. Consider, for example, the case of New Mexico State Patrolman Lonnie Zamora. About a year ago Zamora, patrolling the area south of the town of Socorro, New Mexico, radioed his headquarters that he had observed what looked like the landing of some sort of strange aircraft a few miles south of the town and was proceeding to investigate. His desk sergeant dispatched another car, but by the time it grot there there was nothing to be seen except Zamora himself, his car and certain marks in the ground. According to Zamora, the "aircraft" had been metallic, bright, fairly large and not like anything he had ever seen before. It seemed to land on four struts, and when it took off again it did so with the' accompaniment of a bluish glow from underneath. Although Socorro is ringed by radar (it is on the fringe of the White Sands Proving Ground and as well guarded as any place in the world against aerial intrusion), no trace of any aircraft had been detected by radar or by visual spotters. The marks on the ground consisted of four crude pits -- approximately where Zamora stated the struts of the object had rested -- and a greasewood bush that was in flames, presumably set alight by the "bluish glow" from under the object at takeoff. Some weeks later we had occasion to be in New Mexico and, accomto his students at Eastern New Mexico Reserve University as ProPh.D., but to most of the rest of us as the author of scores of fine science-fiction stories over the past thirty-odd years -- we made a sidetrip of a couple of hundred miles to look over the Zamora sighting. The physical evidence was just as it had been described. There were the four rough pits -- since surrounded by heaps of pebbles by desirous of keeping them from being trampled out of shape. There w?o the greasewood bush; it had grown new shoots, but it was still apparent that it had been burned not long before. The site was down in a little arroyo. About forty feet away was the small mesa where Zamora had parked his police car and got out to investigate. From mesa to arroyo the lino cf .sight was clear and the distance not much. Obviously there would have been no difficulty in seeing whatever was there, given a reliable witness. The apparent next question was, was Zamora a reliable witness? According tc the testimony of his sergeant, his fellow patrolmen and townspeople, there was no doubt at all. "If Lonnie said he saw something, he saw it. He might be mistaken, but he'd never lie." Was he likely to be mistaken? Not according to Professor Lincoln La Paz of the University of New Mexico, for whom Zamora had functioned as a volunteer meteorite spotter for years. Zamora was a trained observer, as well as a man possessed of the most towering reputation for honesty this writer can recall coming across in a long time. Of course, in the long run this whole case rests on Zamora. The physical evidence was nothing -- anybody could have jabbed a couple of holes in the desert; a match could have ignited the bush as easily as a "bluish glow". There were vague reports of other witnesses, but none that could be tracked down -- at undersigned concluded, rather definitely, never would be tracked down, because the geography of the case was such that we didn't believe he ever existed in the first place. So where does that leave us? A bout where we started, we're afraid... and that's the story of the whoie flying-saucer situation. The centactees would say this is design on the part of the space people -- they're just playing with us, that this is irrelevant. Never mind why it's so hard to get conclusive, irrefutable evidence of even one sighting -- out of the endless thousands of reports -- just concentrate on the number, the quality of the observers (many of them trained and of excellent repute) and the logic of the situation. Half of our physical laws rest on worse statistical evidence than the case for flywhich summarizes the circumstances surrounding # carefully selected sightings. Some are accompanied by photographic evidence. Many are supported by the testimony of astronomers, meteorologists, radar operators, airline pilots or others who are in a position to look at the sky with some expertise. At about the same time, Donald H. Menzel, Director of the Harvard Observatory, and Lyle Boyd, contributor to this and many other science-fiction magazines over the years, published a book called The World # , the Flying Saucers , in which they went over the evidence for a large selection of sightings and came to the conclusion that every one of them was explicable in terms of planets seen through a haze, odd cloud formations, weather balloons or other natural events. So where does that leave us? Still about where we started, we're afraid. But we're still checking. And it may be that we'll have something more definite to tell you one of IF  Novelette She was beautiful. She told me she loved me. The only trouble was, she kept trying to kili me! I T he bolt of flame from the gun from his nose. There was silence, and then the door opened behind him. Light footsteps approached, muffled by the fine, deadly dust on the floor. Gull craned to see the person approaching, but he was tied too tightly for that. "You are most foolhardy, Meesta Gull," said the girl's soft voice. "I beg you, do not drop the fuse again or I must resort to more 'arsh methods." And from the corner of his eye Johan Gull saw her slim figure swiftly stoop to recover the ball-meter length of rubbery plastic fuse-cord. As she attempted to jam it into his mouth again he jerked his head aside and managed to ask, "Why are you doing this?" "Why?" There was the soft hint of a laugh in her voice. "Ah, why indeed!" She caught hi? head in the crook of an arm and, surprisingly strong, held it still. He felt the stiff strand thrust between his teeth, tasted again the acrid chemical flavor. When she had done the same thing before he had been able to spit the fuse out before she could ignite it. She did not chance his dropping it again; her flame-gun hissed, and the end of the fuse befn to sizzle with a tiny green spark. "I think," she whispered, "that it is because I love you, Meesta Gull." And he felt something like a quick touch of lips, a scent of perfume that carried even above the pyrotechnic reek of the sputtering fuse; and then the door closed softly and he was alone in the room that was about to become an enormous bomb. T he green halo hissed the length of the dangling fuse toward his lips. Johan Gull, estimating seconds by the beat of his pulse where his wrists were tied to the wall, timed ers a second. Say four minutes before it reached his lips. He sighed. It was a nuisance to think of his career ending like this -- a daring foray into enemy territory to break up a smuggling operation of the Black Hats... complete success, the ring destroyed, the dozen men in charge of it dead... and then to allow himself to be tricked by the one person who survived, a slip of a girl. If he had only not answered her cry for help! But he had. And he had found himself trussed up in a karate grip, then tied to the wall. And now -- he had four minutes of life, or actually a bit less, unless he thought of something rather quickly. He could, of course, drop the fuse at any time before the spark touched his flesh and his instictive reaction made him drop it. But the girl had said, and he had no reason to think that she lied, that the powdery dust she had spread about the floor was gunpowder. In the unconfined space of the room it would perhaps not explode; it might only flare up like the igniting of a gas jet; but it would kill Johan Gull nonetheless. Could he scrape a spot clean with his feet and drop the burning fuse there? Experimentally he shifted position and tried. It was slow work. The floor was rough-cast cement and the tiny particles of explosive powder adhered like lint on wool. By arduous scraping with the side of his shoe Gull managed to get a six-inch square mostly free of the stuff. But it was not good enough, he saw. A pale powdery haze clung to the crevices. It was not much, but it was too much; it would take very little to flash and carry the spark of the fuse to the main mass; and two eminutes were irretrievably gone. Could he sneeze it out? It was IF at least worth a try, he thought; but annoyingly his nose would not itch, there was no trace of nasal drip, all he managed to do was snort at the tiny green light and make it flare brighter for a moment. He redoubled his efforts to slip his wrists out of their bonds. The thing could be done, he discovered with tempered pleasure. The girl had tied him well; but she was only a girl and not strong enough, or cruel enough, to cut deeply into his wrists. The cord stretched slowly and minutely; he would be able to work himself free. But not in four minutes. Still more certainly not in the minute or less that was all he had left. Already he could feel the heat of the glowing end of the fuse on his chin. He was forced to lean forward for fear of igniting his goatee, but soon it would be too close for that to help. There really was only one thing to do, thought Johan Gull regretfully. He nibbled the short remaining length of fuse up to his lips and, wincing from the pain but denying it control of his actions, chewed out the spark. A quarter of an hour later he was free of his bonds and through the door. The girl was long gone, of course. Spirited little devil. Gull wished her well; he bore her no animus for taking one round of The Game, wished only that he had been able to see her more clearly, for her voice was sweet. Perhaps they would meet again. Rubbing his wrists, Gull looked about the dingy shed in which ne had been held captive. He knew this part of Marsport less well than almost any of the rest of the red planet, but recognized this rundown corridor as a slum. An uncollected trash basket kicked over on its side spewed refuse across the steel decking. On the black wall that had housed him some despairing wretch had scrawled, We Are Property! The air pressure was low, but it reeked of dirt, drugs and vice. Gull shrugged, lighted a cigarette, turned his back on the room tht had so nearly been his death ti # and strode toward the sign marked Subway. He would be late, and .# was a stickler for promptness. But he paused to glance back again, and thought of the girl who had trapped him. He had liked her voice. She had had a charming fragrance. It had been cool of her to have ignited the fuse while she was still in the room; he might have dropped it and then and there blown both of them halfway to Deimos. And she had said that she loved him. II T he entrance to Security lay through a barber shop. Gull hung his coat on a rack and sat back in the chair, musing about the adventure he had just had and wondering about the next to come. In the corridor outside a chanting mob for spacemen; Gull had nearly been caught in the marching front of their demonstration as he entered the shop. He submitted to being lathered, shaved, talced and brushed, but the jacket he was helped into was not his own. His hand in the pocket closed over the familiar shape of the pencil-key. He let himself out the back way of the barber shop and opened the private door to .#'s office. "Sorry I'm late, sir," he apologized to the ancient, leathery figure with the hooded eyes behind the desk. The Old Man's secretary, McIntyre, looked up from his eternal notebook. From the hooks and slants in that little leather-bound pad messages flew to every corner of the Solar System, alerting a battalion of Marines on Callisto, driving a Black Hat front into bankruptcy in Stuttgart, thrusting pawns against a raid on Darkside Mercury, throwing an agent to his death here on Mars. To McIntyre it was all the same. He was a dark young man who had never been known to show emotion. He said calmly, ".# is a stickler for promptness, Gull." Gull said, "I ran into difficulties. Something didn't want me to get here today, I'm afraid." Was it his imagination, or did .#'s imperturbable face show the vestige of a frown? McIntyre put down his pencil and regarded Gull thoughtfully. "I think," he said, "that you'd better tell .# just what you mean by that." "Oh, just that I had difficulties, sir." Quickly Gull sketched the events of the day. "Afraid I allowed myself to be decoyed. Shouldn't have, of course. But next thing you know there was a flame-pencil in my ribs, I was tied up and a lighted fuse between my teeth. Quite unpleasant, as the floor was covered with gunpowder. I would have been here sooner, but I didn't quite trust myself to spit the fuse clear of the gunpowder." Eyebrows raised, McIntyre glanced at .#, as if to find a sign on that stoic countenance. Then he rose deliberately, walked to a file, pulled out a sheaf of papers in a folder marked, Gull, Johan , Personnel Records of. He glanced through them thoughtfully. "I see," he said at last. "Well, that's neither here nor there." He replaced the folder and sat beside Gull. "Johan," he said earnestly, ".# wants me to caution you that your next assignment may mean unusual danger." "Really, sir? Oh, delightful!" "More than you think, perhaps," said McIntyre darkly. "It isn't merely our colleagues in the Black Hats this time. It's mob hysteria, at least. Perhaps something far more sinister. Something's up in Syrtis Major." A fter fourteen years as an agent and innumerable hearings of those words, or of words very much like them, still a thrill tingled up the spine of Johan Gull. Something's up in Syrtis Major -- or Lacus Solis. Or the Southern Ice Cap. And he would be off again, off in the gratification of that headiest of addictions, the pitting of one's wits and fine-trained body against the best the other side could come up with. Afid they were resourceful devils, TO IF he thought, with the journeyman's unseltish admiration for a skilled worker at his own trade. Time and again it had taken all he possessed to win tnrough against their strength and trices. And if .# felt it necessary to caution him that this coming expiou would be trickier than uuai, u would indeed be something to remember. "Mnasning," ne cried. "Would you care to Drier me on it?" But McIntyre was shaking his head. #I you'd managed to get here on schedule -- " he said; and then, "As it is, .# has some rather urgent callers due in, let me see, mark! Forty seconds." "I see, said Johan Gull. "However," McIntyre went on, "research has the whole picture for you. Vou'li draw whatever supplies are necessary in Supply. Then Travel  transport can arrange for your travel and transport. Good-by, Gull." "Right, sir,' said Gull, memorizing his instructions. His lips moved for a second and he nodded. "Got it. So long, McIntyre. Good-by, sir." He did not wait for an answer. It was well known that .# disliked wasting breath on trivia, above all on the conventional exchange of greetings and farewells and unmeant inquiries as to the unimportant aspects of one s health that passed for "politeness". In the office these perfunctory pleasances were skipped. Gull let himself out, his heart pounding in spite of himself, and started toward the Research office and a new job. I t was rather a nuisance, thought Gull as he lay sprawled in the barber's chair, to go again through the process of being lathered, shaved, talced and brushed. But it did have advantages. One advantage wai that it gave one a moment to oneself now and then. Johan Gull was a healthy young animal. He had an educated interest in food, drink and the attractions of women; a moment for reverie taken perforce, like this, was a luxury... the sort of luxury his active body was inclined to deny him when it had a choice. He dreamed away the moments, hardly hearing the barber-robot's taped drone -- "How you think the Yanks gonna do? Say, you see this new ragazz ' on the TV last night? Hoo!" -- while his mind roamed the ochre wastes of Syrtis Major. He thought contentedly that he was ready for the assignment. The jacket he was helped to put on bore on its cuff a quite unduplicable pattern of metal-linked lines and dots. Gull climbed the winding stairs down to the basement of the barber shop, held the sleeve to a scanning device and was admitted to the Research center. Lights, sounds and activity smote his senses. He blinked, pausing on the threshold of the room as the great steel door swung soundlessly closed behind him. As it never failed lo do, the busy hum of Research thrilled him with a sense of the vast massive scope of Security's incredibly complex operations. The chamber was more than thirty meters across. It was in the form of an amphitheater, with cirIF cles of desks descending toward the gFeat central dais. There on a pivot, its axis inclined an exact # #' from the vertical, the great globe of Mars majestically turned, it cities and traffieways and canals etched out in colors that were softly glowing or startlingly bright. Here a rhythmic green flash pinpointed one of Security's agents on active duty. There a crimson warning signal winked the presence of a known enemy operative. Patches of blue and orange indicated areas of military buildup or of temporary calm; white flashes showed Black Hat strongpoints under surveillance; .#'s own bases were gold. Any Black Hat field man would gladly have paid his life, and a bit more, for five minutes inside the Research chamber. It was the most secret installation in all Security's vast net. In it, any of the three hundred trained technicians seated at their rows of desks on each step of the circle could look up and, in a moment, identify a trouble signal, record a "mission accomplished", demand and get a dossier on any adult Martian citizen or guest, or put into operation any of .#'s magnificently daring ventures. And what was most impressive about it all, thought Gull, was that this infinitely detailed accumulation of expertise was duplicated in full in one other place -- in the fecund convolutions of .#'s busy brain. Gull observed that the appropriate face of Mars was toward him now. He quickly sought the lines of the canals, followed them to Syrtis Major, paused and frowned. The whole mass of the area was glowing with a pale lavender radiance. G ull stood puzzled and faintly worried, until one of the girls at the circling desks rose and beckoned him. As he approached she sat down again and waved him to a chair. "Good afternoon, Mr. Gull," she said. "One moment until I get your account records." Gull grinned, more amused than otherwise. "Oh, come off it, Gloria," he said easily. "I know I was a stinker last night. But let's not hold grudges." She said stiffly, "Thank you for waiting, Mr. Gull. I have your records now." Gull's smile did not fade; he had observed the faint softening of the corners of her mouth. "Then let's get to it," he said genially. Her fingers had been busy on the console A faxed sheet emerged from a slit on the lip of her desk and she read it carefully, nodding. "Ah, yes. I thought so," said the girl. "It's that flying saucer affair in Syrtis Major." Gull's smile vanished. He smote his brow. "Flying saucers! Of course." Comprehension overspread his face and he nodded'. "Saw the lavender on the globe, of course, but I must admit that for the moment I forgot my color-coding. Couldn't remember that it meant flying saucers." The girl was looking at him ruefully. "Oh, dear," she sighed. "Johan, you've just earned yourself a one-hour refresher. You know #'s a stickler for keeping color-coding in your head." Gull groaned, but she was adamant. "No use fighting it. It'll do you good, dear. Now about this flying saucer thing." She glanced over the faxed sheet to refresh her memory, then spoke. "About two weeks ago," she said, "a couple of old mica prospectors reeled in off the desert with a story about having been captured by strange, god-like creatures who landed near their camp in a flying saucer. There's a transcript of their stories on this tape -- " she took a spool from a drawer of her desk and handed it to Gull -- "but essentially what it comes to is that they said these creatures are so far superior to humans that they consider us to be domesticated animals at best." "Have the same feeling myself from time to time," said Gull, pocketing the spool. "I know that, dear. Anyway, nobody paid much attention. Not even when the prospectors swore they'd been given the power of walking through fire without being burned, putting themselves into catalepsy, even levitating themselves. However, then they began doing it in front of witnesses." She took another spool of tape from her desk, then two more. "This one's synoptic eye-witness accounts. This one's a report from Engineering on possible ways that these phenomena may have been faked. And this other one's a rebuttal from Unexplained Data, covering similar unexplained phenomena of the past forty-odd years." "Keep an even balance, don't we?" grinned Gull, pocketing the spools. "For God's sake, Johan, don't get them mixed up. Well, anyway. About half of Syrtis Major decided the prospectors were fakes and tried to lynch them. The other half decided they were saints, and began to worship them. There's a whole revivalist religion now. They think that the saucer people own us -- " "Oh, yes," said Gull. "I know about that part." Indeed, it was hard not to have seen some of their riotous, chanting mass meetings, to dodge their interminable parades or to have failed to observe the slogans they had painted all over Marsport Dome. "Then you won't need these other tapes." Gloria sat back, frowning over her checklist. "Well, that's about it, th -- " A bright golden light flashed on the girl's desk. In the middle of a word she stopped herself, picked up the scarlet hushphone marked Direct and listened. She nodded. "Right, sir," she said, replaced the phone, made a quick notation on the fax sheet before her and returned to Gull. " -- en," she finished. "Any questions?" "I think not." "Then here are your operating instructions, submarine reservations, identification papers and disguise kit." She handed him another reel of tape, a ticket envelope, a punchcoded card with a rather good likeness of an idealized Johan Gull on it and a bottle of hair color. IF Gull accepted them and stowed them away. But he paused at the gM's desk, looking at her thoughtfully. "Say. Would you like me to take you home tonight?" "Good heavens, no. I haven't forgiven you that much." She made two check marks on the fax sheet. "Anyway, you won't have time." "Why do you say that? My submarine doesn't leave for four hours -- " She smiled. "That call was from .#'s office." Gull said gloomily. "Cripes. I suppose that means extra lines." "Absolutely essential you complete two one-hour refresher courses before leaving," the girl quoted. "McIntyre was quite emphatic. Said to remind you that .# was a stickler for maintaining high levels of training; half-trained agents jeopardize missions." Gull sighed but surrendered. No doubt .# was right. "What's the score?" he asked. "One hour in color-code recognition, but don't think I reported you. Probably .#'s office was monitoring us. The other -- let me see -- oh, yes. Basic fuse-spitting, refresher course. Good luck, Johan. Drop me a card from Syrtis Major." G ull kissed her lightly and left. He paused in the entranceway, studying his tickets and operating orders. He was faintly puzzled. That in itself was all right. He remembered and liked the feeling. It was a good sign; it was the operations where one couldn't quite see the drift at first that often turned out to be the most exciting and rewarding. Yet he wished he knew how this mission was going to be. He turned his back on the flickering, darting lights that came from the great turning Martian globe and began to trudge up the stairs. All right so Syrtis Major had got the wind up. Mass hysteria, surely. In itself, that sort of thing was hardly worth Security's while to bother with. There was no sign' of the opposition's fine Macchiavellian hand in it, less reason to believe that there would be real danger. Yet McIntyre had warned of "unusual danger." Surely he was wrong. Unless... Unless, thought Johan Gull with a touch of wonder, as he sat back in the barber's chair and felt the warm lather gliding along his cheek, as the shoeshine robot waited to pull the lever that would drop him into the chute to Plans  Training... unless there really were people from flying saucers on Mars. Ill S mells of fungi, smells of the sea. The tang of hot-running metal machinery and the reek of stale sewage. Johan Gull expanded his chest and sucked in the thousand fragrances of the Martian waterfront as he shouted: "Boy! My bags. To my cabin, chop-chop!" He followed the lascar-robot at a slow self-satisfied pace, dropping ashes from his panatella, examining the fittings of the submarine with the knowing eye of the old Martian hand. He did indeed feel well pleased with himself. in the role Costumery had set up for him, that of a well-to-do water merchant from the North PoLar Ice Cap, he had arrived at the docks in a custom Caddy. He cast largesse to the winds, ordered up a fine brandy to his cabin and immediately plunged into a fresh-water bath. When you were playing a part, it was as well to play a wealthy one, he thought contentedly; and when he had luxuriated in his bath tor fifteen minutes and felt the hrob of the hydrojets announce the ship's getting under weigh, he emerged to dress and play his tapes with a light heart. To all intents and purposes, Gull must have seemed the very archetype of a rich water vendor of substantial, but not yet debilitating, age. He sat at ease, listening to the tapes through a nearly invisible earplug and doing his nails. He did not touch the eye patch which gave his face distinction, nor did he glance toward the framed portrait of Abdul Gamal Nasser behind which, he rather thought, a hidden camera-eye was watching his every move. Let them damned well lock. They could find nothing. He sat up, stretched, yawned lighted an expensive Pittsburgh stogie, blew one perfect smoke ring and resumed his task. The T Coronae Borealis was a fine old ship of the Finucane-American line. As a matter of fact Johan Gull had voyaged in her more than a time or two before, and he looked forward with considerable pleasure to his dinner that night at the captain's table, to a spot of gambling in the card room, perhaps -- who knew? -- to a heady tete-a-tete with one of the lovely ladies ne had observed as he boarded. The voyage to Heliopolis was sixteen Hours by submarine, or just time enough for one's glands to catch up with the fact that one had changed one's mise-en-scene. Ballistic rockets, of course, would do it in fifty minutes. In Johan Gull's opinion, ballistic travel was for barbs. And he was grateful that Mars's atmosphere would not support that hideous compromise between grace and speed, the jet plane. No, thought Gull complacently. Of all the modes of transport he had sampled on six worlds and a hundred satellites, submarining through the Martian canals was the only one fit for a man of taste. He snapped off the last of the tapes and considered his position. He heard with one ear the distant, feminine song of T Coronae's nuclear hydrojets. Reassuring. With every minute that passed they were two-fifths of a mile closer to the junction of four canals where Heliopolis, the Saigon of Syrtis Major, sat wickedly upon its web of waters and waited for its prey. Gull wondered briefly what he would find there. And as be wondered, he smiled. T he knock on the door was firm without being peremptory. "Another brandy, sir?" called a voice from without. "No, thank you, steward," said Gull. No Martian water vendor would arrive at dinner half slopped over. Neither would Gull -- if not IF because of the demands of his iole, then because of the requirements of good manners to the handiwork of T Coronae's master chef. Anyway, he observed by his wrist chronometer that it was time to think things over. He reviewed what he had heard on the tapes. Those two prospectors, he thought. Damned confusing thing. Their names, he recalled, were Harry Rosencranz and Clarence T. Reik. He had checked their dossiers back to pre-emigration days. There had been nothing of interest there: Rosencranz an exunemployed plumber from Fort Leavenworth, Kansas; Reik a cashiered instructor in guerrilla tactics from the nearby Command  General Staff School. Like so many of Eartn's castoffs, they had scraped together money to cover passage to Mars, and enough over to outfit one expedition. They had managed to subsist ever since on what scrubby topazes they could scratch out of the sands of the Great Northern Desert. With, thought Hull, no doubt a spot of smuggling to make ends meet. Duty-free Martian souvenirs into the city, and chicle for the natives out. So much for Harry Rosencranz and Clarence T. Reik, thought Gull, blowing gently on the second coat of polish and commencing to buff his nails to a soft gleam. But it was not who the prospectors were that mattered. It was what they had had to say... and above all, what they had done. Gull paused and frowned. There was something he could not recognize in the atmosphere. A soft hint of fragrance -- tantalizing -- it strove to recall something to him, but he could not be sure what. A place? But what place? A girl? He shook his head. There could be no girl here. He put the thought from his mind and returned to the two prospectors and their strange story. T heir testimony far outran the parameters of normal credibility. Gull could repeat the important parts of what they had said almost verbatim. Reik had been the more loquacious of the two -- Well, Harry was like cooking up our mulligan outside the tent when I thought I heard him yell something. I stuck -- Q. One minute, Mr. Reik. You couldn't hear what he said clearly? A. Well, not what you'd call clearly. You see I had the TV sound up pretty loud. Can't hear much when you got the TV sound up pretty loud. Q. Go on. A. Well, I just reached out and turned off the set and stuck my neck out the flap. Geez! There it was. Big as life and twice as scary. It was a flying saucer, all right. It glowed with like a sort of pearly light that made you feel -- I dunno how to say it, exactly -- like, peaceful. Q. Peaceful? A. Not only that. Good. It made me sorry I was such a rat. Q. Go on. A. Well, anyway, after a minute a door opened with like a kind of a musical note. F sharp, I'd say. Harry, he thought it was F natural. Well, we got to fighting over that, and then we looked up and there were these three, uh, creatures. Extraterrestrials, like. They told us they had long watched the bickerings and like that of Earthmen and they had come to bring us wisdom and peace. They had this sealed book that would make us one wi f h the Higher Creation. So we took a couple -- Q. They gave you each one? A. Oh, no. I mean, they didn't give them to us. They sold them to us. Twenty-five bucks apiece. We paid them in topazes. Q. You each had to have a book? A. Well, they only work for one person, see? I mean, if it's anybody else's book you can't see it. You can't even tell it's there. Gull frowned. It would be sticky trying to learn much about the book if one couldn't see it. Still, even if the book itself were invisible, its effects were tangible indeed -- or so said the account on the tapes. Reik had described his actions on entering Heliopolis: Harry he lemme his switchblade. I stuck it right through my cheeks, here. I didn't bleed a drop, and then I kind of levitated myself, and after a while I did the Indian Rope Trick, except since I just had my good necktie for a rope I couldn't get far enough up to disappear. You have to get like seventy five per cent of your body height up before you disappear. Q. Could you disappear if you had a long enough rope? A. Hell, yes. Only I won't. You get to a higher cycle of psychic Oneness like me and you don't kid around with that stuff any more. Q. Did you do anything else? A. Well, not till after dinner. Then I put myself in a cataleptic trance and went to sleep. I didn't do that any more after that, though. Catalepsy doesn't really rest you. I was beat all the next day, but I figured, what the hell. I was still only on page seven. Gull sighed, relit his stogie and contemplated the shimmering perfection of his nails. And at that moment his doorchime sounded. Through the open switch of the announcerphone came a sound of terrified sobbing and the throaty, somehow familiar voice of a frightened girl: "Please! Open the door quickly, I 'ave to see you. I beg you to 'urry, Meesta Gull!" G ull froze. He realized at once that something was amiss, for the name on his travel documents was not Gull. Steadily he considered the implications of that fact. Someone knew his real identity . Gull called, "One moment." He was stalling for time, while his mind raced to cope with the problems that deduction entailed, if his identity were known, then security had been breached. If security were breached, then his mission was comIF promised. If his mission were compromised -- # Gull grinned tightly, careless of the possible camera-eye that would even now be recording his every move. If his mission were compromised the only intelligent, safe, approved procedure would be to return to Marsport and give it up. And that, of course, was wbat Johan Gull would never do. Carefully, quickly, he slid into his socks and slippers, blew on his nails to make sure they were dry and threw open the door, one hand close to the quick-draw pocket in his lounging robe where his gun awaited his need. "Thank God," whispered the girl at the doorway. She was lovely. A slim young blonde. Blue eyes, in which a hint of recent tears stained the eyeshadow at the corners. Courteously Gull bowed. "Come in," he said, closing the door behind her. "Sit down, if you will. Would you care for coffee? A drop of brandy? An ice cream?" She shook her head and cried: "Meesta Gull, your life is in 'ideous danger!" Gull stroked his goatee, his smile friendly and unconcerned. "Oh, come off it, my dear," he said. "You expect me to believe that!" And yet, he mused, she was really beautiful, no more than twentyseven, no taller than five feet three. And the tiny ridge at the hemline of her bodice showed that she carried a flame pencil. "You must believe me! I ave taken a frightful chance to come 'ere!" "Oh, yes, no doubt," he shrugged, gazing at her narrowly. It was her beauty that had struck him at first, but there were more urgent considerations about this girl than her charms. For one thing, what was that she carried? A huge bag, perhaps; it almost seemed large enough to be a suitcase. For anpther -- Gull's brows came together. There was something about her that touched a chord in his memory. Somewhere... sometime... he had seen that girl before. "Why Jo you come here with this fantastic story?" he demanded. The girl began to weep. Great soft tears streamed down her face like summer raindrops on a pane. But she made no sound and her eyes were steady on his. "Meesta Gull," she said simply, "I come ere to save your life because I must. I love you." "Hah!" "But it is true," she insisted. "I love you more than life itself, Meesta Gull. More than my soul or my 'opes of 'Eaven. More even than my children -- Kim, who is six; Marie Celeste, four; or little Patty." She drew out a photograp.I and handed it to him. It showed her in a plain knitted suit, with the three children grouped around a Christmas tree. Gull softened slightly. "Nice-looking kids," he commented, returning the picture. "Thank you." "No y really. I mean it." "You're being kind." Gull started to reply, "hen stopped himself. For he was falling into the oldest trap in the business. He was allowing his gentler emotions to interfere with the needs of the assignment. In this business there was no room for sentiment, Gull thought wryly. Better men than he had been taken in by the soft passions and bad paid for it, in death, in torture, in dismemberment -- worst of all, in the failure of a mission. "Hell with all that stuff," he said gruffly. "I still can't accept your story." "You must! The Black 'Ats ave a plan to kill you!" He shook his head. "I can't take a stranger's word for it." The tears had stopped. She gazed at him for a long, opaque moment. Then she smiled tantalizingiy. "A stranger, Meesta Gull?" "That's what I said." "I see." She nodded gravely. "We 'ave never met, eh? And therefore I could not possibly know something about you -- oh, something that perhaps is very private." "What are you talking about? Get to the point!" "Something," she continued, her eyes veiled but dancing with amusement, "that perhaps you 'ave told no one else. A -- shall we say -- a sore lip, Meesta Gull? Received, perhaps, in an alley in the Syrian quarter of Marsport?" G ull was startled. "Really! Now, look. I -- confound it, how could you possibly know about that? I've mentioned it to no one!" She inclined her head, a tender and mocking gesture. "But it's true! And there was no one there at the time! Not a single living soul but myself and the woman who trapped me!" The girl pursed her lips but did not speak. Her eyes spoke for her. They were impudent, laughing at him. "Well, then!" he shouted. He was furious at himself. There had to be some rational explanation! Why had he let her catch him off-balance like this? It was a trick, of course. It could be no more than that. There were a thousand possible explanations of how she could have found out about it -- "Well, then! How did you know?" "Meesta Gull," she whispered soberly, "please trust me. I cannot tell you now. In precisely seven minutes -- " she glanced at her watch -- "an attempt will be made on vour life." "Rot!" Her eyes flamed with sudden anger. "Idiot!" she blazed. "Oh, 'ow I 'ate your harrogance!" Gull shrugged with dignity. "Very well! Die, then, if you wish it. The Black 'Ats will kill you, but I will not die with you." And she began to take off her clothes. Johan Gull stared. Then soberly, calmly he picked up his stogie, relit it and observed, "Your behavior is most inexplicable, my dear. ' "Hah!" The girl stepped out of her dress, her lovely face bitter with anger and fear. A delicate scent of chypre improved the air. "This tactics will get you nowhere," said Gull. "Pah!" She touched the catch on her carrying case. It fell open and IF a bright rubbery coverall fell out, with mask and stubby, bright tanks attached. "Good heavens!" cried Gull, startled. "Is that a warmsuit? But the girl said only, "You 'ave four minutes left." "You're carrying this rather far, you know. Even if there are Black Hats aboard, we can't leave the submarine underwater." "Three minutes," said the girl calmly, wriggling into her suit. But she was wrong. The submarine seemed to run into a brick wall in the water. They were thrown against the forward wall, a Laocoon of lovely bare limbs and rubbery warmsuit and Gull entwined in the middle. A huge dull sound blossomed around them. Gull fought himself free. The girl sat up, her face a mask of terror. "Oh, damn the damn thing," she cried, shaking her wrist, staring at her watch. "I must've forgot to set it. Too late, Meesta Gull! We 'ave been torpedoed!" IV T he warbling wheep-wheep of alarm signals blended with a confused shouting from the steerage holds below. The cabin lighting flickered, went out, tried once more, failed and was replaced by the purplish argon glow of the standby system. A racking, shuddering crash announced the destruction of the nuclear reactor that fed the hydrojets; somewhere, water was pouring in. "'Urry, Meesta Gull!" cried the girl. "Of course," said Gull, courteously assisting her with the warmsuit. He patted her shoulder. "Not to worry, my dear. I owe you an apology, I expect. At a more propitious time -- " "Meesta Gull! The bulkheads 'ave been sabotaged!" Gull smiled confidently and turned to his escape procedures. Now that it was a matter of instant action he was all right. His momentary uncertainty was behind him. Coolly he reached into his pocket, unsnapped the little packet of microthin Standing Orders and scanned their titles. "Let me see, now. Checklist for air evacuation -- no. Checklist for enemy attack, artillery. Checklist for -- " "Meesta Gull," she cried, with real fear in her voice. "'Ave you forgotten that these waters are the 'abitat of the Martian piranha? You must 'urry!" "Well, what the devil do you think I'm doing? Now be still; I have it here." And crossly Gull began to check off the items under Submarine torpedoing , Martian can als : Secret papers, maps, halazone tablets, passports, poison capsule, toothbrush, American Express card... with metronome precision he stowed them away and nstantly "That's the lot," he announced, glancing distastefully at d-e d rtv froth of water that was seeping under the door. "We might as well be off, then." He lowered 'he raised it again at once, to fish out a packet of Kleenex in its waterproof packet and add it to his stores. "Sorry. Always get a sniffly nose when I'm torpedoed," he apologized, and flung open the door to the passageway. A three-foot wall of water broke into the cabin, bearing with it a short circuited purser robot that hummed and crackled and twitched helplessly in a shower of golden sparks. "Outside, quick!" cried Gull, and led the way through the roiled, tumbling waters. The brave old T Coronae Borealis had taken a mortal wound. Half wading, half swimming, they fought strongly against the fierce drive of inwelling waters toward an escape hatch. In the dim purple gleam of the standby circuits they could see little. But they could hear much -- shouts, distant screams, the horrid sounds of a great ship breaking up. There was nothing they could do. They were lucky to be able to escape themselves. And then it was nothing; a few strong strokes upward, a minute of clawing through the gelid, fungal mass that prevented the canals' evaporation and had concealed their water from Earthly telescopes for a hundred years -- and they were safe. Armed and armored in their with the piranhas. Gull and the girl dragged themselves out on the bank of the sludgy canal and stared back at the waters, gasping for breath. There were ominous silent ripples and whorls. They watched for long minutes. But no other head appeared to break the surface. Gull's face was set in a mask of anger. "Poor devils," he allowed himself, no more. But in his heart he was resolved. A hundred men, women and robots had perished in the torpedoing of the T Coronae. Someone would pay for it. A cross the burning ochre sands they marched... then trudged... then stumbled. The pitiless sun poured down on them. "Meesta Gull," sobbed the girl. "It is 'ot." "Courage," he said absently, concentrating on making one foot move, and then the other. They had many miles to go. Gull's maps had indicated a nearly direct route from the canal along the Sinus Sabaeus where the submarine was slowly beginning to rust, straight across the great hot sweep of Syrtis Major to Heliopolis. A direct route. But it was not an easy one. Step, and step. Gull thought sardonically of the two prospectors who had come out of this desert to start all the trouble. When they entered Heliopolis it had been on a magic carpet that slid through Mars's thin air like a knife. Nice to have one now, he thought -- though exhaustive tests had shown the carpet itself to be a discontinued Sears, Roebuck model from the looms of Grand Rapids. But somehow they had made it work -- He sighed and called a halt. The girl fell exhausted to the sands. "Meesta Gull," she whispered, "I cannot go much farther.' "You must," he said simply. He fell to studying his maps, checking the line ot sight to the distant hillocks that passed, on Mars, for mountains. "Right on," he murmured with satisfaction. "See here. Seven more miles west and we're in the Split Cliffs. Then bear left, and -- " "You are not 'uman! I must 'ave rest -- water!" Gull only shrugged. "Can't be helped, my dear. But at least the sun will be behind us, now. We can do it." "No, no!" "Yes," said Gull sharply. "Good God. woman! Do you want to be caught out here after dark?" He sneezed. "Excuse me," he said, fumbling a Kleenex out of the packet and wiping his nose. "Five minutes," she begged. Johan Gull looked at her thoughtfully, dabbing at his nose. He had not solved the mystery she presented. There was every reason to be on guard. Yet she had truly warned him of the torpedoing of the submarine, and surely she could be no threat to him out here, as piteously weakened as she was. He replaced his breathing guard and dropped the Kleenex to the ground. A moment later the empty pack followed. It had been the last. But Gull merely scuffed sand over it with his foot and said nothing; no sense adding to her worries. He said chivalrously, "Oh, all right. And by the way, what's your name?" She summoned up enough reserves of strength to smile coquettishly. "Alessandra," she murmured. Gull grinned and nudged her with his elbow. "Under the circumstances," he chuckled, "I think VJk call you Sandy, eh?" "Don't jest, Meesta Gull! Even if we survive this trip, you 'ave still the Black 'Ats to face in "Eliopolis." "I've faced them before, my dear. Not to worry." " Ave you seen what they can do now? With their creatures from outer space?" "Well, now. But I'll think of something." She looked at him for a long and thoughtful minute. Then she said, "I know you will, Meesta Gull. It is love that tells me so." V S tep, and step. In Mars's easy grasp a man can lift much, jump high. But to slog through desert sands is little easier than on Earth; the sliding grains underfoot rob him of strength and clutch at his stride. They were near exhaustion, Gull knew with clarity; and for the past half mile the girl had been calling to him. Gull closed his ears to her. He kept his eyes on his own lengthening shadow before him, even when he heard her sobbing. They had no strength to spare for conversation. "Meesta Gull," she whispered brokenly. "Wait, please." He kept on grimly, head down, feet moving like pendulums. "Meesta Gull! But I must ask you something." IF Over his shoulder he murmured, "No time for that, old girl. Keep walking." "But I ave to know." "Oh, for God's sake," he said, and waited for her to catch up. "What is it now?" "Only this, Meesta Gull. If we are 'eading west, why is the sun behind us?" "Really, Sandy! I swear you have no consideration at all!" "I am most sorry, Meesta Gull. I only asked." "You only asked," he repeated bitterly. "You only asked! And now you know what I have to do? I have to stop and take out the maps and waste all kinds of time just to satisfy your damned curiosity. Of course we're heading west!" "I really am very sorry." "And the reason the sun's behind us -- Well, if you knew geometry -- Look here. I'll show you on the map." She fell to the ground again as he pored over the charts, frowning at the horizon, returning to his grid lines. At length his expression cleared. "I thought so," he said triumphantly. "Perfectly simple, my dear. Up you get." With rough tenderness he helped her to her feet and set off again, smiling. She did not speak at first, but presently she ventured: "Meesta Gull, we are 'eading toward the sun now. And these seem to be our own footprints we are retracing." Gull patted her good-humoredly. "Don't worry, Sandy." "But, Meesta Gull -- I " "Will, you for God's sake shut up?" Confounded women, thought Gull. How they did go on! And ho might have said something harsh to the poor girl, except that that oo curred which drove all thoughts of compass headings from both their minds. There was a terrible thunder of many hooves. Alessandra whimpered and clutched his arm. Gull stopped short, waiting; and over a rise in the ochre sands came a monstrous gray-green creature with six legs. It was huge as an elephant and its look was deadly; and it bore a rider, a huge, manlike, green-skinned creature with four arms, holding a murderouslooking lance. The thoat, for such it was, skidded to a stop before them. Its monstrous rider dismounted with a single leap. For an endless second the creature glared at them through narrowed, crimson eyes. Then it laughed with a sound of harsh and distant thunder. "Ho!" it cried, tossing the lance away. "I won't need this for such as you! Prepare to defend yourself, Earthling -- and know that you face the mightiest warrior of the dead sea bottoms, Tars Tarkas of Thark!" T he girl cried out in terror. Johan Gull gripped her shoulder, trying to will strength and courage into her. It was damnably bad luck, he thought, that they should somehow have taken the wrong turn. Clearly they had blundered into privte property... and he had a rather good idea of just whose property they had blundered into. He stepped forward and said, "Wait! I believe I can settle this to everybody's satisfaction. It's true that we don't have tickets, Tars Tarkas, but you see we were torpedoed in the Sinus Sabaeus and had no opportunity to pass the usual admission gate." "Wretched Earthling!" roared the monster. "If I issue you tickets there is a ten per cent surcharge; I don't make Barsoomland policy, I only work here. What say you to that?" "Done!" cried Gull, and amended it swiftly. "Provided you'll accept my American Express card -- otherwise, you see, I have the devil of a time with the old expense account." The creature bared yellow fangs in a great, silent laugh. But it interposed no objection, and the card was quickly validated by comparison with the Barsoomian's built-in magnetic file. Tars Tarkas nodded his enormous head, swiftly wrote them out two lavender slips and roared: "Here you are, sir. If you wish to exchange them for regular family-plan tickets at the gate there will be a small refund... I am assuming the la'dy is your wife," he twinkled. "And now, welcome to Barsoomland. Be sure to visit the Giant Sky Ride from the Twin Towers of Helium, in the base of which are several excellent restaurants where delicious sandwiches and beverages may be obtained at reasonable prices. Farewell!" #S "I think not," said Gull at once. "Don't go. We need transportation." "By the hour or contract price?" parried the Martian. "Direct to Heliopolis. And no tricks," warned Gull. "I've taken this ride fifty times. I know what the meter should show." Muttering to himself, the creature leaped up on his throat and allowed them to clamber behind. And they were off. T he motion of the thoat was vaguely disconcerting to the sense of balance, like a well trained camel or a very clumsy horse. But it ate up the miles. And for a nominal fee Tars Tarkas consented to supply them with food and drink. Gull ate quickly, glanced at the girl to make sure she was all right -- which she was, though a trifle green and apparently not greatly interested in food -- and set to work to question the Thark. "You've had some interesting goings-on," he yelled up toward the enormous head. "It is even so, Earthling," tolled Tars Tarkas's great voice. "Flying saucers and that sort of thing." The bright red eyes regarded him. "Evil things!" roared the Thark somberly. "May Iss bear them away!" "Oh, I certainly hope that too," agreed Gull. He was hanging on to the Barsoomian's back, his face at about the level of the creature's lower left-hand armpit, and carrying on a conversation presented difficulties. But he persevered. "Have you seen any of it yourself?" he IF asked. "Psionics or any of that? " Watch your mouth!" cried the Barsoomian, enraged. "No, no. Little green monsters. Nothing personal." The Thark glared at him with suspicion and hostility for a moment. Then the huge, reptilian face relaxed. The Thark muttered. "Not bow. When we get to Heliopolis, go to the -- " The voice broke off. Tars Tarkas eocked a pointed ear, and stared about. With a whirring, whining sound, something appeared over the dunes. The girl cried out and clutched at Gull, who had little comfort to give her. Whatever it was, it was not of this planet -- or of any other that Johan Gull had ever seen. It had the shape of a flying saucer. It glittered in the blood-red, lowering sun, arrowing straight toward them. As it drew near they could see the markings on its stern: U.F.Q. Cumrovin #nd Giant Rock, Earth "Blood of Issus!" shouted f the Barsoomian. "It's one of them" Tars Tarkas bellowed animal hatred to the dark Martian sky and raised his lance. Fierce white fires leaped from its tip -- struck the alien vessel, clung and dropped away. The craft was unharmed. It soared mockingly, tantalizingly overhead for a moment, seeming to dare them to fire on it again. Then a single needle of ruby light darted out of its side, reached down and touched Tars Tarkas between his bright red eyes. The Barsoomian seemed to explode. The concussion flung them from the throat. Dazed, stunned, aching in every bone, Johan Gull managed to drag himself to his feet and look around. The alien spacecraft was gone. The girl lay stunned and half-unconscious at his feet. Yards away Tars Tarkas was a giant mound of gray-green flesh and bright metal parts, writhing faintly. Gull staggered over to the creature and craddled the ravaged head in his lap. The scarlet eyes stared sightlessly into his. The ruin of a mouth opened. "We... are property," whispered Tars Tarkas thickly, and died. VI O nce, when Johan Gull was very young, the newest and least reliable of cogs in Security's great machine, he had been assigned to Heliopolis to counter a Black Hat ploy. Or not quite that, he admitted; he had been sent to add a quite unimportant bit of information to the already huge store that the agent operating on the scene already had. He had envied that agent, had young Johan Gull. He had looked with jealous eyes about the bright, dizzying scenes of Heliopolis and dreamed of a time when he too might be a senior agent in charge, himself a major piece in the Game, squiring a lovely lady on an errand of great consequence, in the teeth of dreadful danger. All the fun of it was in the anticipation, he thought as they rode into Heliopolis lock on their battered thoat, checked it at the Avis office and dismounted. If only Tars Tarkas had survived to tell what he knew! But he had not; and Gull was uneasily aware that he knew no more now than when he left Marsport. Still, he thought, brightening, this was Heliopolis, the Saigon of Syrtis Major. He might get killed. He might not be able to protect this lovely and loving girl from mischance. He might even fail in his mission. But he was bound to have a hell of a time. They found rooms at the Grand and parted to freshen up. Overhead the city's advertising display flashed on the thin, yellowish clouds of Mars, on, off -- on, off: The Wickedest City in the Worlds Liquor  Gambling  Vice The Family That Plays Together Stays Together And indeed, Gull saw, the pleasure-seekers who thronged the concourses and the lobby of the Grand had often enough brought the kiddies. He watched them sentimentally as the bellthing trundled his luggage toward the elevators. It would be most pleasant to spend a holiday here, he thought, with someone you loved. With Alessandra, perhaps. Perhaps even with Kim, Marie Celeste and little Patty... But he could not afford thoughts like that; and he quickly showered, shaved, put on a clean white suit and met the girl in the great gleaming cocktail lounge of the Grand. "'Elio, Meesta Gull," she said softly, her eyes dark and somehow laughing. Gull regarded her thoughtfully. She was sight worth regarding, for the girl in the cocktail lounge was nothing like the bedraggled, terrified creature in the ochre sands. Her green-blue eyes were smoky with mystery. Her leongsam, deeply slit, revealed the gleam of a bronzed rounded thigh. A whisper of some provocative scent caressed him; bat it was not her charms that had him bemused; it was something else. His eyes narrowed. Somewhere, he thought. Some time... She laughed. "You are thoughtful," she said. "Will you 'ave a drink with me?" "The pleasure is all mine," he said gallantly. "Unless you have other plans?" she inquired. There was no doubt about it; she was poking fun at him. He rose to her mood. "It's the least I could do, my dear -- seeing you saved my life." "Ah! Life." She glanced wryly at him from the corner of her eye. "What is it, this 'life' I 'ave saved? Can one taste it? Can one carry it to bed?" Gull grinned. "Perhaps not, but I'm rather attached to mine." He ordered drinks, watched carefully while they were made, then nodded and raised his glass. "Of course," he IF added, "I've saved your life too -- I guess, let's see -- oh, perhaps three times. From Tars Tarkas. From dying by thirst. From the saucer people. So you actually owe me about three to one, lifesaving-wise." "Three to two, dear Meesta Gull," the girl whispered over the rim of her glass. "Two? Oh, I think not. Just the torpedoing, really, and as a matter of fact I'm not sure you should get full credit for that. You were a little tardy there." She shook her head. "Yes, the torpedoing -- and something else. 'Ave you forgotten? The old warehouse? The -- incident -- which caused your sore lip?" Gull stared at her, then brought his glass down with a crash. "Got it!" he shouted. "I remember now!... Oh, damn it, sorry," he went on, shaking his head. "It was on the tip of my tongue, but I've lost it. Sorry." He stared at her moodily and drained his glass. "No matter. I'll think of it. I promise you that." T he girl laughed softly, then sobered. "Meanwhile," she said, "we 'ave some more important business 'ere." And she nodded toward the great crystal pane that opened on the thronged boulevards of Heliopolis. Gull followed the direction of her glance and saw at once what she meant. A demonstration was in progress. A hundred straggling, shouting marchers were carrying placards with as many harsh and doctrinaire slogans: Let the Space People Save You! We Are Property Why Is the Air Force Covering Up Sightings? Gull said abruptly, "Let's take a look." The girl rose without answering and together they walked out to the terrace. The shouts of the demonstrators smote them like a fist. Gull could barely distinguish the cadenced words in the roar of sound: "Make... Mars... the tomb of skepticism " over and over in time to their march until it "They take it seriously," he murmured. Alessandra did not answer; he glanced at her, then followed the direction of her gaze. A man in stained coveralls, eyes fixed on them, was pushing his way in their direction through the crowd. He was tall, and not young. His face was lined with the ineradicable burn of a life spent on the Martian desert. Gull stroked his goatee to hide a thrill of excitement that tingled through him. This could be it: The break he was looking for. The man stopped just below them, looking up. "Hey, you!" he bawled. "You Gull?" Gull shouted carefully, "That's my name, yes." "Well, where the devil you been? We been waiting for you!" cried the man in irritable tones. He reached up, clutched at a carved projection on the face of the terrace, raised himself and swung to face the crowd. "Hey, everybody!" he shouted. "K ' the fella that thinks Look here!" Heads were beginning to turn. The ragged line of marchers slowed, Gull whispered to the girl, whose presence he could feel shivering beside him: "Careful! I don't know what he's going to do. If it looks like trouble -- run!" But he could not hear her answer, if she made one, for the man was turning back to him again. In the diminished sound of the street his raucous yell sounded clearly: "All right, Gull! You think our supranormal powers're all a lotta crud, see what you think of this!" And he made a snatching motion at what, as far as Gull could see, was empty air; caught something, squeezed it in his fist; turned toward Gull and threw it. There was nothing in the man's hand. But that nothing spun toward Gull like a pinwheeling comet, huge and bright and deadly; it hummed and sang shrilly of hate and destruction; it rocketed up toward him like an onrushing engine of destruction. And something in it sapped his will. He stood frozen, impotent to move. Vaguely he felt a stir of motion beside him. Hazily he knew that the girl was thrusting at him, shouting at him, hurling him aside. Too late! The hurtling doom came up and struck him -- just a corner brushing against his head as he fell -- but enough; worlds crashed; hell-bombs roared in his skull; he dropped, away and away, endlessly down into... into... he could not see, could not guess what it was; but it was filled with terror and pain and doom. But then he was awake again, and the girl was weeping over him; he could feel her teardrops splashing on his face. G ull coughed, gasped, clutched at his pounding skull and pushed himself erect. "What -- What -- " "Oh, thank 'eaven! I was afraid 'Arry 'ad killed you!" "Apparently not," he said dizzily; and then, "Harry who? How do you know who that fellow was?" "What does it matter?" she cried. Bright tears hung unshed in her eyes. "Well, it kind of matters to me," said Gull doubtfully, looking around. They were no longer on the terrace. Somehow she had lugged him back into the greater security of the cocktail lounge. A waiter was hanging over them, whirring in a worried key. "Harry Rosencranz!" he cried suddenly. The girl nodded. "Sure! And he knew I was coming. Well, that tears it. My cover's blown for sure." He glared at the waiter and said, "Don't just stand there. Bring us a drink." The thing went away, warbling unhappily to itself. It had not been programmed for this sort of thing. Indeed Gull needed a drink. The reality of supranormal powers was a phenomenon of a totally different kind than the contemplation of them at a distance. The tapes about Reik and his partner had been interesting; the reality was terrifying. IP He seized the glass as soon as offered and drained it; and then he turned to Alcs-andra. "You've got some explaining to do," he said. The tears were very near the surface now. She waited. "How did you know it was Rosencranz?" he demanded. "And the torpedoing -- you knew about that. And don't think I've forgotten that we've met before... somewhere... don't worry, I'll think of where it was." She inclined her head, hiding her face. "You're working for someone, aren't you?" Her silence was answer enough. "A nice girl like you! How'd you get into this?" He shook his head, mystified. "Ah, Meesta Gull," she said brokenly, "it's the old, old story. My 'usband -- dead. My little ones -- 'ungry. And what could I do? And now they 'ave me in their power." "Who?" "The Black 'Ats, Meesta Gull. Yes, it is true. I am in the employ of your enemy." "But damn it, girl! I mean, you said you loved me!" "I do! Truly! Oh, 'ow I do!" "Now, wait a minute. You can't love me and work for them " objected Gull. "I can too! I do!" "Prove it." She flared, "'Appily! 'Ow?" Gull signaled for another drink. He smiled at the girl quite fondly. "It's very simple," he said. "Just take me to your leader." I t took a bit of doing, but the girl did it. She returned from a series of cryptic telephone conversations and looked at Gull with great, fearful eyes. "I 'ave arranged it," she said somberly. "You will be allowed in. But to get out again -- " Gull laughed and patted' her hand. He was not worried. Still, he admitted to himself a little later, things could get a bit difficult. Security precautions for the Black Hats were in no way less stringent than those of Gull's own headquarters in Marsport. He allowed himself to be seated in a reclining chair while a gnomelike old dentist into a previously healthy tooth; and when he rose, the exit through which he left the office brought him to a long, dark tunnel underground. The girl was waiting there silently to conduct him to his destination. She placed a finger across her lips and led him away. "Wait a minute," Gull whispered fiercely, looking about. For there were interesting things here. Off the corridor were smaller chambers and secondary tunnels filled with all sorts of objects shadowy and objects small. Gull wanted very much to get a look at them. Those tiny disjointed dollshapes! what were they? And the great gleaming disk section beyond? But the girl was pleading, and Gull allowed himself to be led away. She conducted him to a door. "Be careful," she whispered. And she was gone, and Gull was face to face with the chief of the Black Hats in Heliopolis. He was a tall, saturnine man. He sat at a desk that reflected gold and green lights into his face, from signals that Gull could not see. "Oodgay eveningway, " he said urbanely. "Ah, I see you are perplexed. Perhaps you do not speak Solex Mai." "Afraid not. English, French, Cretan Linear B, Old Ganymedan's about the lot." "No matter. I am familiar with your tongue as we speak it all the time on Clarion." He leaned forward suddenly. Gull stiffened; but it was only to hand him a calling card. It glittered with evil silver fires, and it read: T. Perlman Clarion "Clarion's a planet? I never heard of it." Perlman shrugged. Obviously what Gull had heard of did not matter. He said, "You are a troublemaker, Mr. Gull. We space people do not tolerate troublemakers for long." "As to that," said Gull, stroking his goatee, "it seems to me you had a couple of shots at doing something about it. And Pm still here." "Oh, no, Mr. Gull," said Perlman earnestly. "Those were only warnings... Their purpose was only to point out to you that it is not advisable to cause us any trouble. You have not as yet done so. of course. If you do -- " He smiled. "You don't scare me." "No, Mr. Gull?" "Well, I mean, not much anyway. I've been lots more scared than this." "How interesting," Perlman said politely. "And anyway, I have my job to do and I'm going to do it." Perlman pursed his lips and whispered into a microphone on his desk. There was a stirring of draperies at the back of the room. It was shadowed there; Gull could see no details. But he had a moment's impression of a face looking out at him, a great, sad, mindless long face with teeth like a horse and an air of infinite menace; and then it was gone. He cried, "You're up to some trick!" Perlman smirked knowingly. "It won't do you any good! You think you know so much." "Ah, if only I did, Mr. Gull! There are forces in this universe which even we of Clarion have not yet understood. The straight-line mystery, to name one. The Father's plan." Gull took a deep breath and carefully, inconspicuously, released it. He was doing no good here. And meanwhile there were matters just outside this room that urgently required investigation -- and attention. He said steadily, "I'm going to go now, Mr. Perlman. If you try to stop me I'll shoot you." Perlman looked at him with an expression that suspended judgment for a moment. Then it came to a conclusion and broke into a shout of laughter. "Ho!" he choked. "Hah! Oh, Mr. Gull, how delicious to think IF mam wM' you will be allowed to leave. As we say in Solex Mai, otway ustcray!" Gull did not answer. He merely moved slightly, and into his hand leaped the concealed #-picometer heat gun. Perlman's expression changed from fire to ice. "I'll leave you now," said Gull. "Next time you have a visitor, search his goatee too, won't you?" Ice were Perlman's eyes. Icy was the stare that followed Gull out the door. B ut he was not safe yet, not while the horse-faced killer was presumably lurking somewhere about. The girl appeared silently and put her hand in his. Gull gestured silence and strained his hearing. These tunnels were so dark; there were so many cul-de-sac where an assassin could hide -- "Listen," he hissed. "Hear it? There!" From the shadows, distant but approaching, came the sound of an uneven step. Tap, clop. Tap, clop . The girl frowned. "A man with one leg?" she guessed. "No, no! Can't you recognize it? It's a normal man -- but with one shoe hanging loose " She caught her breath. "Oh!" "That's right," said Gull somberly, "the old. shoelace trick. And I haven't time to deal with him now. Can you draw him off?" She said steadily, "If I 'ave to, I  can. "Good. Just give me five minutes. I want to look around and -- effect some changes, I think." He listened, the step was closer now. He whispered, "Tall, long-faced man with big teeth. I think that's him. Know him?" "Certainly, dear Meesta Gull. Clarence T. Reik. 'E's a killer." Gull grinned tautly; he had thought as much. The partner of Harry Rosencranz, of course; one had attacked him at the hotel, the other was stalking him with a sharpened shoelace in the warrens under the city. "Go along with you then," he ordered. "There's a good girl. Remember, five minutes." He felt the quick brush of ner lips against his cheek. "Give me 'alf a minute," she said. "Then, dear Meesta Gull, run" And she sprang one way, he another. The approaching tap, clop paused a split-second's hesitation. Then it was going after her, its tempo rapid now, its sound as deadly as the irritable rattle of a basking snake. Gull had his five minutes. He only prayed that it had not been bought at a higher price than he wanted to pay. T here in the Black Hat warren under Heliopolis Johan Gull fulfilled the trust .# placed in him. He had only moments. Moments would be enough. For almost at once he knew. And he leaned against the nitered stone walls of the catacomb, marveling at the depth and daring of the Black Hat plan. Before him a chamber of headless, limbless mannikins awaited programming and assembly. They were green and tiny. In another chamber six flying sauIF cers stood in proud array. Each of them held a ring of leather-cushioned seats. Behind him was a vast hall where signpainters had left their handiwork for the moment: Read Five Minutes for #. And another The Black Hats had planned well... A sound of light, running footsteps brought him back to reality. The pale shadow of the girl raced toward him. "Well done!" he whispered, urging her on. "Just one more time around and I'll be through." "It's 'ot work, dear Meesta Gull," she laughed; but she obeyed. He froze until she was out of sight, and the lumbering dark figure that followed her. And then he set to work. When she came by again he was ready. Quickly he leaped to the center of the corridor, gestured her to safety. She concealed herself in a doorway, panting, her eyes large but unafraid. And the pounding, deadly sound of her pursuer grew louder. Fourteen semester hours of karate, a seminar in le savate and a pair of brass knuckles. All came to the aid of Johan Gull in that moment, and he had need of them. He propelled himself out of the shadows feet first, directly into the belly of the huge, long-faced man who was shambling down the dimly lit corridor. The man's eyes were dull but his great yellowed teeth were bared in a grin as he moved ferally along the stone floor, a thin, lethal wand in one hand, dangerous, ready. Ready for a fleeing victim. Not ready for Johan Gull. For Gull came in under the deadly needle. Even as he was plunging into the man's solar plexus he was reaching up with one hand, twisting around with the other. It was no contest. Gull broke the weapon-bearing arm between wrist and elbow, butted the man into paralysis, kicked him in the skull as he fell, snatched the weapon and was away, the girl trailing behind him. "Hurry!" he called. "If he comes to, they'll box us in here!" As he ran he worked one tip of the stiffened shoelace. Ingenious! Twisted one way, it slipped into limpness; twisted the other, it extended itself to become a deadly weapon. Gull chuckled and cast it away. Up the stairs they ran and through the cover dentist's office. The gnomelike dentist squalled in surprise and ran at them with a carbide drill, hissing hatred; but Gull chopped him down with the flat of a hand. They were free. And the final battle was about to be fought. CX#"ou 'ave a plan, Meesta I Gull?" "Of course." He glanced about warily. No Black Hats were in sight as he led her through :he bright, opulent doors of the Heliopolis Casino. "You are going to fight them single-'anded?" "Fight? My dear girl! Who said anything about fighting?" The chef de chambre was bowing, smiling, welcoming them in. "But -- But -- But if you do not fight them, dear Meesta Gull, then ow will you proceed?" Gull grinned tautly and led her to the bar, from which he could observe everything that was going on. He said only, "Money. No more questions now, there's a good girl." He called for wine and glanced warily about. The Casino was host that night, as it was every night, to a gay and glittering crowd. Behind potted lichens a string trio sawed away at Boccherini and Bach, while the wealthiest and most c ashionabe of nine planets strolled and laughed and gamed away fortunes. Gull sipped his wine and stroked his goatee, his eyes alert. Now, if he had gauged his man aright... if he had assessed the strategy that would win correctly... It could all be very easy, he thought, pleased. And he could enjoy a very pleasant half hour's entertainment into the bargain. Gull smiled and stroked the girl's hand. She responded with a swift look of trust and love. In the glowing silky fabric of the dress he had commandeered for her she was a tasty morsel, he thought. Once this Black Hat ploy had been countered, there might be time for more lighthearted pursuits -- "Attend!" she whispered sharply. Gull turned slowly. So near his elbow as to be almost touching stood the tall, saturnine figure of Perlman. They stood for a moment in a tension of locked energies, eyes gazing into eyes. Then Perlman nodded urbanely and turned away. Gull heard him whisper to a passing houseman, "Atthay's the erkjay." Gull leaned to the girl. "I don't speak Solex Mai," he said softly. "You'll have to translate for me." She replied faithfully, "'E just identified you to the 'ouseman." He gave her an imperceptible nod and followed Perlman with his eyes. The Black Hat did not look toward Gull again. Smiling, exchanging a word now and then with the other guests, he was moving' steadily toward the gaming tables. Gull allowed himself to draw one deep breath of satisfaction. Score one for his deduction! Perlman was going to play. He nodded to the girl and began to drift toward the tables himself. Give it time, he counseled himself. There's no hurry. Let it build. You were right this far, you'll be right again. "Believe I'll play a bit," he said loudly. "Won't you sit here and watch, my dear?" Silently the girl took a seat beside him at the table. Casually -- but feeling, and relishing, the cold gambling tinge that spread upward from the pit in his stomach, inflaming his nerves, speeding the flow of his blood in his veins -- Gull gestured to the croupier and began to play. He did not look across the table at the polite, assured face of Perlman. He did not need to. This game had only two players -- or only two that mattered. As he took the dice for his first turn, Gull reflected with comfort and satisfaction that soon there would be only one. IF H alf an hour later he was all but broke. Across the table Perlman's expression had broadened from polite interest, through amusement to downright contempt. Gull's own face wore a frown; his hands shook, angering him; he felt the first cold pricklings of fear. Confound the man, thought Gull, his luck is fantastic! If indeed it was luck. But no, he told himself angrily, he could not cop out so cozily; the tables were honest. Face truth: He had simply run up against a superb gambler. "Hell of a time for it to happen," he grumbled. The girl leaned closer. "Pardon? You spoke?" "No, no," Gull said irritably, "I -- uh, was just thinking out loud. Listen. You got any money on you?" She said doubtfully, "Perhaps... a little bit..." "Give it to me," he demanded. "No! Under the table. I don't want everybody to see." But it was too late; across the table Perlman had not missed the little byplay. He was almost laughing openly now as he completed his turn and passed the dice to Gull. Gull felt himself breathing hard. He accepted the thin sheaf of bills from the girl, glanced at it quickly. Not much! Not much at all for what he had to do. He could stretch it out, make it last -- but for how long? And with the game running against him... Silently Gull cursed and studied the table. Before him the wealth of an empire was piled in diamond chips and ruby, in pucks of glittering emerald and disks of glowing gold. Politely the croupier said, "It is your play, m'sieur." "Sure, sure." But still Gull hesitated. To gain time he tossed the girl's wad down before the croupier and demanded it be exchanged for chips. Across the table Perlman's look was no longer either amusement or contempt. It was triumph. Gull took a deep breath. This was more than a game, he reminded himself. It was the careful carrying out of a thoughtfully conceived strategy. Had he lost sight of that? Once again in control of himself, he took out a cigarette and lighted it. He tipped the gleaming, flat lighter and glanced, as though bored, at its polished side. Tiny in the reflection he could see the moving, bright figures in the room, the gorgeously dressed women, the distinguished men. But some were not so distinguished. Some were lurking in the draperies, behind the potted lichens. A great pale creature with teeth like a horse, eyes like a dim-brained cat. Another with the mahogany face of a prospector off the Martian plains. And others. Perlman's men had come to join him. The moment was ready for the taking. Abruptly Johan Gull grinned. Risk it all! Win or lose! Let the game decide the victor -- either he would clean out Perlman here and now, and starve out his larger game for lack of the cash to carry it through, or he himself would lose. He said :he croupier, "Keep the chips. Take these too." And he pushed over all his slim remaining stack. "You wish to build, m'sieur?" it asked politely. "Exactly. A hotel, if you please. On the -- " Gull hesitated, but not out of doubt; his pause was only to observe the effect on Perlman -- "yes, that's right. On the Boardwalk." nd Gull threw the dice. Time froze for him. It was not a frightening thing; he was calm, confident, at ease. The world of events and sensation seemed to offer itself to him for the tasting -- the tors in the streets -- poor fools  # wonder what they'll do when they find they've been duped; Alessandra's perfumed breath tickling his ear -- sweet, charming girl; the look of threat and anger on Perlman's face; the stir of ominous movement in the draperies. Gull absorbed and accepted all of it, the sounds and scents, the bright moving figures and the glitter of wealth and power, the hope of victory and the risks. But he did not fear the risks. He saw Ventnor Avenue and Marvin Gardens looming ahead of his piece on the board and smiled. He was certain the dice were with him. A.nd when the spots came up he seemed hardly to glance at them; he moved his counter with a steady hand, four, five, eight places; came to rest on "Chance", selected a card from the stack, turned it over and scanned its message. He looked up into the hating eyes of Perlman. "Imagine," he breathed. "I appear to have won second prize in a beauty contest. You'll have to give me fifteen dollars." And Perlman's poise broke. Snarling, he pushed across the chips, snatched the dice from Gull and contemptuously flung them down. The glittering cubes rattled and spun. Gull did not have to look at the board; the position was engraved on his brain. A five would put Perlman on Park Place, with four houses: damaging, but not deadly. An eight or higher would carry him safely to "Go" and beyond, passing the zone of danger and replenishing his bankroll. But a seven... Ah, a seven! The Boardwalk, with a hotell And the first die had already come to rest, displaying a four. The second stopped. There was a gasp from the glittering crowd as three bright pips turned upward to the light. Gull glanced down at the dice, then across at Perlman. "How unfortunate," he murmured politely, extending a hand to Perlman -- and only Perlman could see the bright, deadly little muzzle that pointed out of it toward him. "You seem to have landed on my property. I'm afraid you've lost the game." -- And he was up and out of his chair, standing clear, as the pencil of flame from the shelter of the draperies bit through the smoky air where his head had just been. "Down!" he shouted to the girl and snapped a shot at Rosencranz; heard that man's bellow of pain and saw, out of the corner of his eye, IF that the girl had disobeyed his order; she had drawn a weapon of her own and was trading shot for shot with the Black Hats that ringed the room. "Idiot!" Gull cried, but his heart exulted Good girl! even as he was turning to blast the next Black Hat. There were nine of them, all armed, all drawing their weapons or, like Rosencranz, having fired them already. It was not an equal contest. Five shots from Gull, five from the girl -- she missed one -- and all the Black Hats were on the floor, writhing or very still. All but one. Perlman! Whirling back to face him, Gull found he was gone. But he couldn't be far. Gull caught the flicker of motion in the gaping crowd at the door that showed where he had gone, and followed. At the entrance Gull caught a glimpse of him and fired; at the corner, plunging through a knot of saw him again -- almost too late. Cooly and cleverly Perlman had waited him out, his own weapon drawn now. The blast sliced across the side of Gull's head like a blow from a cleaver; stunned, hurting, Gull drove himself on. And as Perlman, gaping incredulously, turned belatedly to flee again, he tripped, and stumbled, and Gull was on him. His head was roaring, his hold on consciousness precarious; but he pinned Perlman's arms in a desperate flurry of strength and panted, "That's enough! Give it up or I'll burn your head off." The trapped man surged up but Gull withstood it and cried: "Stop! I want to take you back to .# alive -- don't make me kill you!" Ihe Black Hat spat one angry sentence; Gull gasped and recoiled; Perlman grabbed for the weapon, they struggled -- A bright line of flame leaped from the gun to Perlman's forehead; and in that moment the leader of the Black Hats in Heliopolis ceased to be. Waves of blackness swept over Johan Gull. He fell back into emptiness just as the girl came running up, dropped to the ground beside him, sobbing, "Johan! My dear, dear Meesta Gull;" Hurt and almost out he managed to grin up at her. "Cash in my chips for me," he gasped. "We've won the game!" IX A nd then it was roses, roses all the way. The local Bureau Chief appeared and efficiently arranged for medical attention, fresh clothes and a drink. The girl stayed beside him while Gull dictated a report and demanded immediate reservations back to Marsport -- for two, he specified fiercely. They were produced, and by the time they disembarked and headed for the War Room Gull was nearly his old self. He was admitted at once to ,#'s office, and recognized it as a mark of signal favor when the girl was allowed in with him. They stood there, proud and silent, in the presence of .# and his secretary, and Gull's hand was firm on the girl's. What a thoroughbred she was, he thought admiringly, noting from the corner of his eye how her gaze took in every feature of the room so few persons had ever seen; how she studied .#'s somber expression and hooded eyes, but aid not quail before them; how patiently and confidently she waited for McIntyre to leave off writing in his notebook and speak to them. She would be a fit wife for him, thought Johan Gull with quiet certainty; and she would make a fine agent for Security. And so would Kim, and Marie Celeste, and little Patty. A very successful mission all around, thought Gull cheerfully, thinking of the wad of bills that Perlman's losses had put into his wallet. "When you're quite ready, Gull," said McIntyre. Gull jumped. "Oh, sorry," he said. "Excuse me, sir," he added to .#, whose expression showed no particular resentment at being kept waiting while one of his agents was woolgathering, merely the usual patient weariness. "I guess you want a report." ".# has already seen your report," McIntyre reproved him. "He is a little concerned about your failure to obey standing orders, of course. A live captive is worth a lot more than a dead loser." "Well, yes, I know that's right. But -- " Gull hesitated. "Well?" Gull flushed and turned to .# himself. "You see, sir, it was something Perlman said. Nasty sort of remark. Cheap. Just what you'd expect, from -- Anyway, sir, it was about you. He said -- " Gull swallowed, feeling self-conscious and stupid. The warm pressure of the girl's hand showed him her sympathy, but he still felt like twelve kinds of a fool bringing it up. "Gull! Spit it out before .# loses his patience!" Gull shrugged, looked his chief in the eye and said rapidly, "Perlman said you've been dead since '#, sir." And he waited for the blow to fall. S urprisingly, it did not...# merely continued to look at him, silently, levelly, appraisingly. There was not even a hint of surprise in his expression. At length McIntyre laughed one sharp, desiccated sort of laugh and Gull turned gratefully toward him, glad to be taken off the. hook. "Nonsense, of course, McIntyre," he said. "I really hated to have to say it." But McIntyre was raising a hand, chuckling in a sort of painful way, as though laughter hurt him. "Never mind, Gull," he said. "After all, you're not expected to evaluate information. Just go on and do your job. And now, .# had best be left alone for a while; there are other matters concerning us, you know." And, very grateful to have it happen, Gull found himself and the girl outside. He discovered he was sweating. "Whew," he exclaimed. "Wouldn't want to go through that again. And now, my dear, I suggest a drink -- thereafter a wedding -- then a honeymoon. Not necessarily in that order." "Gladly, dearest Meesta Gull!" she cried. "And I don't give a 'ang IF IF  Short Story y Out there on the face of the moon was his enemy -- and also his only friend  F irst hint I had we'd been spotted by a crusoe was a little tick coming to my moonsuit from the miniradar Pete and I were gaily heaving into position near the east end of Gioja crater to scan for wrecks, trash, and nodules of raw metal. Then came a whish which cut off the , instant Pete's hand lost contact with the squat instrument. His gauntlet, silvery in the raw low polar sunlight, drew away very slowly, as if he'd grown faintly disgusted with our activity. My gaze kept on turning to see the whole shimmering back of his helmet blown off in a gorgeous sickening brain-fog and blood-mist that was already falling in the vacuum as fine red snow. A loud tock then and glove-sting as the crusoe's second slug hit the miniradar, but my gaze had gone back to the direction Pete had been facing when he bought it -- in time to see the green needle-flash of the crusoe's gun in a notch in Gioja's low wall, where the black of the shadowed rock met the gemlike starfields along a jagged border; I unslung my Swift as I dodged a long step to the side and squeezed off three shots. The first two shells must have traveled a touch too high, but the third made a beautiful fleeting violet globe at the base of  All-purpose vacuum rifle named for the .# cartridge which as early as # was being produced by Winchester, Remington, and Norma with factory loads giving it a muzzle velocity of # feet, almost a mile, a second. the notch. I: didn't show me a figure, whole or shattered, silvery or otherwise, on the wall or atop it, but then some crusoes are camouflaged like chameleons and most of them move very fast. Pete's suit was still falling slowly and stiffly forward. Three dozen yards beyond was a wide black fissure, though exactly how wide I couldn't tell because much of the opposite lip merged into the shadow of the wall. I scooted toward it like a rat toward a hole. On my third tep, I caught up Pete by his tool belt and oxy tube while his falling front was still inches away from the powdered pumice, and I heaved him along with me. Some slow or overdrilled part of my brain hadn't yet accepted he was dead. Then I began to skim forward, inches above the ground myself, kicking back against rocky outcrops thrusting up through the dust -- it was like fin-swimming. The crusoe couldn't have been expecting this nut stunt, by which I at least avoided the dreamy sittingduck slowness of safer, higherbounding moon-running, for there was a green flash behind me and hurtled dust faintly pittered my soles and seat. He hadn't been leading his target enough. Also, I knew now he had shells as well as slugs. I" was diving over the lip three econds after skoot-off when Pete's boot caught solidly against a last hooky outcrop. The something in my brain was still stubborn, for I clutched him like clamps, which made me swing around with a jerk. But even that was lucky, for a bright globe two yards through winked on five yards ahead like a mammoth firefly's flash, but not quite as gentle, for the invisible rarified explosion-front hit me hard enough to boom my suit and make the air inside slap me. Now I knew he had metal-proximity fuses on some of his shells too -- they must be very good at mini-stuff on his home planet. The tail of the pale green flash showed me the fissure's bottom a hundred yards straight below and all dust, as # percent of them are -- pray God the dust was deep. I had time to thumb Extreme Emergency to the ship for it to relay automatically to Circumluna. Then the lip had cut me off from the ship and I had lazily fallen out of the glare into the blessed blackness, the dial lights in my helmet already snapped off -- even they might make enough glow for the crusoe to aim by. The slug had switched off Pete's. Ten, twelve seconds to fall and the opposite lip wasn't cutting off the notched crater wall. I could feel the crusoe's gun trailing me down -- he'd know moon-G, sticky old #-foot. I could feel his tentacle or finger or claw or ameboid bump tightening on the trigger or button or what. I shoved Pete away from me, parallel to the fissure wall, as hard as I could. Three more seconds, four, and my suit boomed again and I was walloped as another green flash showed me the smooth-sifted floor moving up and beginning to hurry a little. This flash was a IF hemisphere, not a globe -- it had burst against the wall -- but if there were any rock fragments they missed me. And it exactly bisected the straight line between me and Pete's silvery coffin. The crusoe knew his gun and his Luna -- I really admired him, even if my shove had pushed Pete and me, action and reaction, just enough out of the target path. Then the fissure lip had cut the notch and I was readying to land like a three-legged crab, my Swift reslung, my free hand on my belted dust-shoes. E leven seconds' fall on Luna is not much more than two on earth, but either are enough to build up a velocity of over # feet a second. The dust jarred me hard, but thank God there were no reefs in it. It covered at least all the limbs and front of me, including my helmet-front -- my dial lights, snapped on again, showed a grayness fine-grained as flour. The stuff resisted like flour, too, as I unbelted my dust-shoes. Using them for a purchase, I pulled my other arm and helmet-front free. The stars looked good, even graydusted. With a hand on each shoe, I dragged out my legs and, balancing gingerly on the slithery stuff, got each of my feet snapped to a shoe. Then I raised up and switched on my headlight. I hated that. I no more wanted to do it than a hunted animal wants to break twigs or show itself on the skyline, but I knew I had exactly as long to find cover as it would take the crusoe to lope from the notch to the opposite lip of the fissure. Most of them lope very fast, they're that reminded myself. This time Tm the quarry. My searchlight made a perverse point of hitting Pete's shimmering casket, spread-eagled, seven-eighths submerged, like a man floating on his back. I swung the beam steadily. The opposite wall was smooth except for a few ledges and cracks and there wasn't any overhang to give a man below cover from someone on top. But a section of the wall on my side, not fifty yards away, was hugely pocked with holes and halfbubbles where the primeval lava had foamed high and big against the feeble plucking of lunar gravity. I aimed myself at the center of that section and started out. I switched off my headlight and guided myself by the wide band of starfields. You walk dust-shoes with much the same vertical lift and low methodical forward swing as snowshoes. It was nostalgic, but hunted animals have no time for memorydelicatessen. Suddenly there was more and redder brightness overhead than the stars. A narrow ribbon of rock along the top of the opposite wall was glaringly bathed in orange, while the rim peaks beyond glowed faintly, like smoldering volcanoes. Light from the orange ribbon bounced down into my fissure, caroming back and forth between the walls until I could dimly see again the holes I was headed for. T he crusoe had popped our ship -- both tanks, close together, so that the sun-warmed gasses, exploding out into each other, burned like a hundred torches. The oxyaniline lasted until I reached the holes. I crawled through the biggest. The fading glow dimly and fleetingly showed a rock-bubble twelve feet across with another hole at the back of it. The stuff looked black, felt rough yet diamond-hard. I risked n look behind me. The ribbon glow was darkest red -- the skeleton of our ship still aglow. The ribbon flashed green in the middle -- a tiny venomous dagger -- and then a huge pale green firefly winked where Pete lay. He'd saved me a fourth time. I had barely pushed sideways back when there was another of those winks just outside my hole, this one glaringly bright, its front walloping me. I heard through the rock faint tings of fragments of Pete's suit hitting the wall, but they may have been only residual ringings, from the nearer blast, in my suit or ears. I scrambled through the back door in the bubble into a space which I made out by crawling to be a second bubble, resembling the first even to having a back door. I went through that third hole and turned around and rested my Swift's muzzle on the rough-scooped threshold. Since the crusoe lived around here, he'd know the territory better wherever I went. Why retreat farther and get lost? My dial lights showed that about a minute and a half had gone by since Pete bought it. Also, I wasn't losing pressure and I had oxy and heat for four hours -- Circumluna would be able to deliver a rescue force in half that time, if my message had got through and if the crusoe didn't scupper them too. Then I got goosy again about the glow of the dial lights and snapped them off. I started to change position and was suddenly afraid the crusoe might already be trailing me by my transmitted sounds through the rock, and right away I held stock still and started to listen for him. N o light, no sound, a ghostfingered gravity -- it was like being tested for sanity-span in an anechoic chamber. Almost at once dizziness and the sensory mirages started to come, swimming in blue and burnt and moaning from the peripheries of my senses -- even waiting in ambush for a crusoe wouldn't stop them; I guess I wanted them to come. So though straining every sense against the crusoe's approach, I had at last to start thinking about him. It's strange that men should have looked at the moon for millennia and never guessed it was exactly what it looked like: a pale marble graveyard for living dead men, a Dry Tortuga of space where the marooned their mutineers, their recalcitrants, their criminals, their lunatics. Not on fertile warm-blanketed earth with its quaint adolescent race, which such beings might harm, but on the great silver rock of earth's satellite, to drag out their solitary furious lives, each with his IF suit and gun and lonely hut or hole, living by recycling his wastes; recycling, too, the bitter angers and hates and delusions which had brought him there. As many as a thousand of them, enough to mine the moon for meals and fuel-gases and to reconquer space and perhaps become masters of earth -- had they chosen to cooperate. But their refusal to cooperate was the very thing for which they'd been marooned, and besides that they were of a half thousand different galactic breeds. And so although they had some sort of electronic or psionic or what-not grapevine -- at least what happened to one maroon became swiftly known to the others -- each of them remained a solitary Friday-less Robinson Crusoe, hence the name. I risked flashing my time dial. Only another thirty seconds gone. At this rate it would take an eternity for the two hours to pass before I could expect aid if my call had got through, while the crusoe -- As my senses screwed themselves tighter to their task, my thoughts went whirling off again. Earthmen shot down the first crusoe they met -- in a moment of fumbling panic and against all their training. Ever since then the crusoes have shot first, or tried to, ignoring our belated efforts to communicate. I brooded for what I thought was a very short while about the age-old problem of a universal galactic code, yet when I flashed my time dial again, seventy minutes had gone somewhere. That really froze me. He'd had time to stalk and kill me a dozen times -- he'd had time to go home and fetch his dogs! -- my senses couldn't be that good protection with my mind away. Why even now, straining them in my fear, all I got was my own personal static: I heard my heart pounding, my blood roaring, I think for a bitI heard the Brownian movement of the air molecules against my eardrums. What I hadn't been doing, I told myself, was thinking about the crusoe in a systematic way. He had a gun like mine and at least three sorts of ammo. He'd made it from notch to fissure-lip in forty seconds or less -- he must be a fast loper, whatever number feet; he might well have a jet unit. And he'd shot at the miniradar ahead of me. Had he thought it a communicator? -- a weapon? -- or some sort of robot as dangerous as a man... ? My heart had quieted, my ears had stopped roaring, and in that instant I heard through the rock the faintest scratching. Scratch-scratchy scratch-scratch , scratchy scratch , scratch it went, each time a little louder. I flipped on my searchlight and there coming toward me across the floor of the bubble outside mine was a silver spider as wide as a platter with four opalescent eyes and a green-banded body. Its hanging jaws were like inward curving notched scissor blades. I fired by automatism as I fell back. The spider's bubble was filled with violet glare instantly followed by green. I was twice walloped by explosion-fronts and knocked down. That hardly slowed me a second. The same flashes had shown me a hole in the top of my bubble and as soon as I'd scrambled to my feet I leaped toward it. I did remember to leap gently. My right hand caught the black rim of the hole and it didn't break off and I drew myself up into the black bubble above. It had no hole in the top, but two high ones in the sides, and I went through the higher one. I kept on that way. The great igneous bubbles were almost uniform. I always took the highest exit. Once I got inside a bubble with no exit and had to backtrack. After that I scanned first. I kept my searchlight on. I'd gone through seven or seventeen bubbles before I could start to think about what had happened. That spider had almost certainly not been my crusoe -- or else there was a troop of them dragging a rifle like an artillery piece. And it hadn't likely been an hitherto-unknown, theoretically impossible, live vacuum-arthropod -- or else the exotic biologists were in for a great surprise and I'd been right to wet my pants. No, it had most likely been a tracking or tracking-and-attack robot of some sort. Eight legs are a useful number, likewise eight hands. Were the jaws for cutting through suit armor? Maybe it was a robot pet for a lonely being. Here, Spid! The second explosion? Either the crusoe had fired into the chamber from the other side, or else the spider had carried a bomb to explode when it touched me. Fine use to make of a pet! I giggled. I was relieved, I guess, to think it likely that the spider had been "only" a robot. Just then -- I was in the ninth or nineteenth bubble -- the inside of my helmet misted over everywhere. I was panting and sweating and my dehumidifier had overloaded. It was as if I were in a real peasouper of a fog. I could barely make out the black loom of the wall behind me. I switched out my headlight. My time dial showed seventy-two minutes gone. I switched it off and then I did a queer thing. I leaned back very carefully until as much of my suit as possible touched rock. Then I measuredly thumped the rock ten times with the butt of my Swift and held very still. Starting with ten would mean we were using the decimal system. Of course there were other possibilities, but... Very faintly, coming at the same rate as mine, I heard six thuds. What constant started with six? If he'd started with three, I'd have given him one, and so on through a few more places of pi. Or if with one, I'd have given him four -- and then started to worry about the third and fourth places in the square root of two. I might take his signal for the beginning of a series with the interval of minus four and rap him back two, but then how could he rap me minus two? Oh why IF hadn't I simply started rapping out primes? Of course all the integers, in fact all the real numbers, from thirty seven through forty one had square roots beginning with six, but which one... ? Suddenly f heard a scratching... M y searchbeam was on again, my helmet had unmisted, my present bubble was empty. Just the same I scuttled out of it, still trending upward where I could. But now the holes wouldn't trend that way. They kept going two down for one up and the lines of bubbles zigzagged. I wanted to go back, but then I might hear the scratching. Once the bubbles started getting smaller. It was like being in solid black suds. I lost any sense of direction. I began to lose the sense of up-down. What's moon-gravity to the numbness of psychosis? I kept my searchlight on although I was sure the glow it made must reach ten bubbles away. I looked all around every bubble before I entered it, especially the overhang just above the entry hole. Every once in a while I would hear somebody saying Six! Six? Six! like that and then very rapidly seven eight nine five four three two one naught. How would you rap naught in the decimal system? That one I finally solved: you'd rap ten. Finally I came into a bubble that had a side-hole four feet across and edged at the top with diamonds. Very fancy. Was this the Spider Princess' boudoir? There was also a top hole but I didn't bother with that -- it had no decor. I switched off my searchlight and looked out the window without exposing my head. The diamonds were stars. After a bit I made out what I took to be the opposite lip of the fissure I'd first dove in, only about one hundred feet above me. The rimwall beyond looked vaguely familiar, though I wasn't sure about the notch. My time dial said one hundred eighteen minutes gone as I switched it off. Almost time to start hoping for rescue. Oh great! -- with their ship a sitting duck for the crusoe they wouldn't be expecting. I hadn't signaled a word besides Extreme Emergency. I moved forward and sat in the window, one leg outside, my Swift under my left arm. I plucked a flash-grenade set for five seconds from my belt, pulled the fuse and tossed it across the fissure, almost hard enough to reach the opposite wall. I looked down, my Swift swinging like my gaze. The fissure lit up like a boulevard. Across from me I knew the flare was dropping dreamily, but I wasn't looking that way. Right below me, two hundred feet down, I saw a transparent helmet with something green and round and crested inside and with shoulders under it. Just then I heard the scratching again, quite close. I fired at once. My shell made a violet burst and raised a fountain of dust twenty feet from the crusoe. I scrambled back into my bubble, switching on my scarchlight. Another spider was coming in on the opposite side, its legs moving fast. I jumped for the top-hole and grabbed its rim with my free hand. I'd have dropped my Swift if I'd needed my other hand, but I didn't. As I pulled myself up and through, I looked down and saw the spider straight below me eyeing me with its uptilted opalescent eyes and doubling its silver legs. Then it straightened its legs and sprang up toward me, not very fast but enough against Luna's feeble gravitational tug to put it into this upper room with me. I knew it mustn't touch me and I mustn't touch it by batting at it. I had started to shift the explosive shell in my gun for a slug, and its green-banded body was growing larger, when there was a green blast in the window below and its explosion-front, booming my suit a little, knocked the spider aside and out of sight before it made it through the trap door of my new bubble. Yet the spider didn't explode, if that was what had happened to the first one; at any rate there was no second green flash. My new bubble had a top hole too and I went through it the same way I had the last. The next five bubbles were just the same too. I told myself that my routine was getting to be like that of a circus acrobat -- except who stages shows inside black solidity? -- except the gods maybe with the dreams they send us. The lava should be transparent, so the rim-wall peaks could admire. At the same time I was thinking how if the biped humanoid shape is a good one for medium-size creatures on any planet, why so the spider shape is a good one for tiny creatures and apt to turn up anywhere and be copied in robots too. The top hole in the sixth bubble showed me the stars, while one half of its rim shone white with sunlight. Panting, I lay back against the rock. I switched off my searchlight. I didn't hear any scratching. The stars. The stars were energy. They filled the universe with light, except for hidey holes and shadows here and there. Then the number came to me. With the butt of my Swift I rapped out five. No answer. No scratching either. I rapped out five again. Then the answer came, ever so faintly. Five knocked back at me. Six five five -- Planck's Constant, the invariant quantum of energy. Oh, it should be to the minus #th power, of course, but I couldn't think how to rap that and, besides, the basic integers were all that mattered. I heard the scratching... I sprang and caught the rim and lifted myself into the glaring sunlight... and stopped with my body midway. Facing me a hundred feet away, midway through another top-hole -- he must have come very swiftly by another branch of the bubble ladder -- he'd know the swiftest ones -- was my green-crested crusoe. His face had a third eye where a man's IF nose would be, which with his crest made him look like a creature of mythology. We were holding our guns vertically. We looked like two of the damned, half out of their holes in the floor of Dante's hell. I climbed very slowly out of my hole, still pointing my gun toward the zenith. So did he. We held very still for a moment. Then with his gun butt he rapped out ten. I could both see and also hear it through the rock. I rapped out three. Then, as if the black bubble-world were one level of existence and this another, I wondered why we were going through this rigamarole. We each knew the other had a suit and a gun (and a lonely hole?) and so we knew we were both intelligent and knew math. So why was our rapping so precious? He raised his gun -- I think to rap out one, to start off pi. But I'll never be sure, for just then there were two violet bursts, close together, against the fissurewall, quite close to him. He started to swing the muzzle of his gun toward me. At least I think he did. He must know violet was the color of my explosions. I know I thought someone on my side was shooting. And I must have thought he was going to shoot me -- because a violet dagger leaped from my Swift's muzzle and I felt its sharp recoil and then there was a violet globe where he was standing and moments later some fragment twinged lightly against my chest -- a playful ironic tap. He was blown apart pretty thoroughly, all his constants scattered, including -- I'm sure -- Planck's. I t was another half hour before the rescue ship from Circumluna landed. I spent it looking at earth low on the horizon and watching around for the spider, but I never saw it. The rescue party never found it either, though they made quite a hunt -- with me helping after I'd rested a bit and had my batteries and oxy replenished. Either its power went off when its master died, or it was set to "freeze" then, or most likely go into a "hide" behavior pattern. Likely it's still out there waiting for an incautious earthman, like a rattlesnake in the desert or an old, forgotten land mine. I also figured out, while waiting in Gioja crater, there near the north pole on the edge of Shackleton crater, the only explanation I've ever been able to make, though it's something of a whopper, of the two violet flashes which ended my little mathematical friendship-chant with the crusoe. They were the first two shells I squeezed off at him -- the ones that skimmed the notch. They had the velocity to orbit Luna and the time they took -- two hours and five minutes -- was right enough. Oh, the consequences of our past      The planet was made for a race live on it by paying its price I Sub-departments to Galactic Development Commission Archeology, Planetary Survey assignment #, # January, # through # September, #Q# of planet designated S-#, reported by Scout Ship Ceres as bearing signs of a lost civilization, deaths of expedition members assistant I I t is tempting to read time backwards and come up with something like, "The moment I stepped aboard the ship I knew our expedition was doomed." To stuff one's ego as a critic of the past is easier than as a creator of moments yet to come. The nearest to any precognition I can claim is a muddled unhappy impression after meeting Director Litzanov, first his high-pitched nasal voice carried to me on chill winds, and second, his words. "You are younger than Banning led me to expect, Doctor Maxwell. I assume he can still select a capable representative in his field, but you look like an undergraduate." Next he indicated my guitar on the luggage cart. "Do you make noise with that in addition to the piano Banning mentioned? Wouldn't a reference library of micro-books make better use of your space allotment?" But my colleagues didn't think so. Soon after Explorer II lifted into space they gathered regularly in the crowded little ward room to ask for music. Litzanov never attended. I caught Jim Larsen, our geologist, watching me quizzically after one of those dogged pass-throughs. My face must have sagged like an old time astronaut's at five G's because Jim chuckled. "What has he got against music?" I growled. "You're dealing with someone completely tone-deaf," Jim answered. "Also, sound in measured tempo sends him into a frenzy." Looking backward I might have picked up another foreshadowing hint of trouble. They hauled a stowaway from a supply locker, probably the first in space travel history, a scrawny kid of fifteen. I heard Larsen's incredulous exclamation, "So Binky finally made it!" Commander Jacobs muttered, "He made it all right. Somebody should have clobbered him the first day he wandered on the base." Jim gave me the score. "Binkv's a deaf-mute. Father was one of the early explorer pilots -- died young from radiation. A lot of those early spacers' kids didn't get born right." And the captain growled, "It's a hell of a problem to have on your back for the next ten months. I can message the mother, but -- " He roared at the crew members. "Get the boy for'ard." I didn't like the way they yanked Binky to his feet. The men were surly after the commander's angry lecture and not inclined to handle the stowaway with gentleness. To see a dog kicked makes me softheaded: I stuck my neck out. "Why not turn him over to me? Fll see that he stays out of your way." Litzanov's dry nasality echoed down the passageway. "I suggest that you do not add responsibilities which might interfere with efficiency of your work, Doctor Maxwell. This problem does not concern 'he research party." Temper boils when somebody tries to push me around, and needs an effort to choke down. I tramped on my impulse to answer and dropped an arm across Binky's shoulders. IF E ven old hands on Explorer II had never seen anything like the planet we were assigned to examine. When we broke out into normal space-time it revolved there on the black canvas of an endless cosmos like a bright light -- not blindingly sharp as a sun, but radiating a pale violet nimbus which lent a deceptive transparency to the sphere, as if the molten sheen of its heart rock somehow found a way to the surface. Everyone who could crowd to a viewport stayed there, fascinated. Magnifications showed the most completely landscaped areas any of us had ever seen, as if the entire planet had come under one central plan of formal gardening -- park regions of deliberately designed wildness, shaded roadways laid out specifically for appearance of their patterned crossings from the air, buildings whose shapes, colors and spacing upon the land brought a pleasurable response aesthetically. Massive mountain ranges topped by cliffs of a quartz-like stone stretched across the world, all with a north-south orientation, so that during approach orbit we seemed to be peering at a globe upon which longitudinal lines had been traced in relief. From these came the shimmering aura of the planet. By conduction of volcanic incandescense deep in its interior? By absorption and reflection from its sun? We never became certain. Due to this luminescence the night side only subdued daylight and tinged it wi # h a deeper violet cast, so that there was never complete darkness. "Those cliffs must be gigantic crystal formations," Jim Larsen muttered. "What else could explain the way light appears to be conducted through them?" We touched down upon a dead world. Nothing about the pleasant meadow where we landed should have given such an impression, but it lurked there like an infusion of the peculiar psychic miasma which permeates the air of a' cemetery. Warmth of late spring should have sent men, long imprisoned within a claustrophobic capsule, to cavorting wildly across lush grass flats, but even the most insensitive stepped off our landing stage as if he were entering a cathedral. We stood, and looked silently, and knew that the race which had built so wonderfully had ceased to exist. There was no bird song, no thin sibilance of insects, no whirr of wind, no distant voice of animal or man. And yet I sensed something all around me, almost as if it were sound, not recognizable to ears, however, as resonance. To my musician's acuteness it seemed to possess pitch, though I could not have argued that point successfully. Jim Larsen was inclined to think it a psychological response to a strange environment. I tried to find words for describing the phenomenon as it affected me. In the day's warmth I thought of it as a pitch far above the abil'ty of human ears to respond. When night touched us it seemed something below the threshhold of hearing, frequencies below the deepest notes of a river beating itself to froth against the walls of a gorge, below the darkness of a dream. And yet I had not been aware of when that change in pitch occurred -- if it had. n I discovered then why I had seen Director Litzanov on the news screens so frequently; he was not unacquainted with the persuasive powers of personal publicity. He deserved accolades; he knew his own field and could perform in it with distinction. But like most administrators he actively spread his own image and the more spectacular aspects of his accomplishments, omitting by purposeful oversight anything which might remind the public that his newsworthy activities depended upon cooperative investigation by many trained minds supplying pieces for the mosaic in which he could center himself. And so our first project for the day was a picture. "We must make certain that what we do here, gendemen," he said, "Is preserved for all time in an adequate record." And so our party's photographer rehearsed us until he was satisfied with the mimed spontaneity of fiist setting foot upon a strange world, then shot the picture -- to be shown eventually upon Earth's video screens: explorers disembarking from the star ship, turning to await our leader, his appearance in the open hatch, a sweep of his arm toward distance, our faces swivelling to follow the gesture, a camera pan to glimpses of alien buildings over distant tree tops -- structures actually hidden by those trees but which would be photographed from another viewpoint and spliced into the completed film. Voices and incidental sound would be dubbed in later. I felt an idol of my innocent days shatter; I had seen this basic sequence often on video during my undergraduate years, stirring then my imagination and determination to become worthy of a place on Director Litzanov's staff... He had seemed the epitome of the glamorous research-scholar to my worshipping young soul. Now was the day of awakening to the shams which dramatize man's accomplishments. I vowed that if ever I advanced to leadership of my peers I would accept it as a trust rather than an elevation. In cynical moments since I have wondered if I would remember that vow. We traversed the woodlands and came upon a wide thoroughfare. From its end paths ascended by steep ramps a series of increasingly higher terraces forming a mile long pyramidal base for a magnificent collection of tall structures located in the center of an extensive valley between two high ridges of white and rose colored stone. It was the consensus of the party that this complex must be the planet's governing center or cultural mecca. Seen from the perspective of ground level they were stunning buildings, towers and buttresses of the white and rose quartz-like rock, wall slabs of a many-hued plastic so hard that time had neither dulled its polish nor chipped its surface. IF It was a shining aggregation of five architectural wonders, one at each, of the major points of the compass and one in the center. An arcade of pointed arches built from the same rosy crystalline rock joined the four outer buildings to form a ring enclosing the fifth structure in its middle. V# e stood in a great concourse   surrounding the pyramid. From this circle twelve spacious avenues radiated, ending at the inner ring of another extensive pavement curving about the pyramid a dozen miles away. This second parkway formed a circumference from which three hundred and sixty roadways spread to girdle the planet and return again at points exactly opposite on the circle from their start. Jim Larsen was whispering, "Marvelous engineering! Daring planners!" And I nodded, unable to look away from grass covered slopes that once had been clipped lawns sweeping upward to terrace after terrace, each paved by the mottled plastic material and balustrated with the strange white stone. Like giant steps they led to a truncated top where the buildings carried the pyramid's natural slope to its vertex. I felt that I looked at a gigantic fountain whose jets were in the sky. Here Litzanov arranged another picture, a low-angle shot picking him up in the close foreground against a backdrop of the pyramid as he commented upon the architectural miracle to his chief scientists, then a fade-out with them admiring the beauty he indicated. Jim Larsen grumbled with mild amusement, "I suppose these phony interludes advance the cause among people back on Earth who pay our salaries and grants, but what a waste of time." I laughed. "It gave Binky and me time to touch this venerable relic. Tap the carved rock in that balustrade lightly." "Why?" But he snapped a finger against the railing and turned to stare at me, then back to repeat the feather-weight thump. "You wouldn't try to fool me into believing a flick of one finger could start vibrations through solid rock, would you?" "Did I suggest that it would?" "No," he admitted. I said, "I still don't really believe I felt anything, but after seeing Binky react, then watching you go through the same experience -- well, what did happen?" Instead of answering he struck the post a strong blow, keeping finger tips of his left hand on the rock to sense any effect. "Feel anything?" I asked, and he shook his head. I scrounged a steel bar from a crew man and swung at the baluster. Jim laughed. "This rock is absolutely dead. I couldn't feel a single shiver." Without any real purpose I flicked my finger against it and saw Larsen jerk his hand away, then touch his finger tips back to the stone. "Do that again," he muttered. I placed my fingers beside his and repeated the light tap. We both to believe there had been a tremor. Jim grunted, "Were a couple of yahoos fooling ourselves." "You think we're being victimized by a little mental suggestion?" "Let's say we don't believe anything yet and high-tail it after the others." But I heard him mumbling, "If a finger tap can start vibrations, then a crowbar should have made the thing ring like a bell." That worried me too. And I stewed over why a race would desert a world so beautifully designed. B ut we found those suppositions were false. Binky discovered the inhabitants. Ranging ahead like a wild colt he blundered into them near the top terrace and rushed back to us, pointing. Many were mummified; some were fragments, powdering bones, skulls that crumbled from countless seasons deterioration when touched -- hundreds grouped on the last slope -- then through the arcade's delicate arches to sight of an amphitheatre within, and thousands of grinning skulls, weathered remnants of the creators of this beauty. They lay in orderly rows as they had sat, centuries ago, attending some spectacle in that tremendous outdoor theatre where a blue-violet sky made fragile silhouettes of the surrounding arches and curved overhead into a vaulted roof that seemed as substantial as plastic, as near as a ceiling, and as far as infinity. And from where we stood at the circling line of rosy-white arcade the amphitheatre bowl spread before us, completely surrounding the highreaching central building, its far side dim in heavy violet of the atmosphere -- acres of beautifully wrought seats cast from plastic, shining with a gloss that made them seem installations of only days ago rather than aged by unnumbered centuries. And on each seat, or spilled to the aisle in front of it, pitiful pieces of what was once life. I heard myself saying, "They must not have known death was approaching, even when it struck." "Wiped out in a single instant," Jim mused, "while they watched some kind of performance." I agreed. "There is no indication of panic. Skeletons that have not broken apart, or bodies which mummified, are all in seated postures." And that was as far as we could go on speculation. There is no need to list the routines of prying into a dead civilization's hidden mysteries. On any site, if it has been covered by drifting debris of time, one digs -- and lifts more shovels of dirt than treasure. When time neglects to spread a wind-borne or alluvial blanket upon the remains, then come monotonous days of measuring, charting, photographing. Scouts, criss-crossing the planet in skimmers, reported that conditions everywhere apparently were the same as we found them here. Evidently each inhabitant on the hapless globe had died at the same instant, without enough warning to cause him to look up from whatever task engaged him at his moment of destiny. "Radiation of some sort?" Jim and I asked each other repeatedly. The other always replied, "None that IF man knows could do it without disturbing the population enough to leave signs of terror." '#'ork began to concentrate in   the four structures at the pyramid's corners, for three were discovered to be museums and libraries, and the fourth certainly was an administration center. Tremendous window spaces pierced their walls. It was assumed by most that no window enclosures had been intended, but Jim Larsen became curious about grooves in the stone bordering these openings and drifts of finely pulverized metal caught in angles scattering winds could not reach. One evening he walked from the expedition's laboratory and announced, "That powder is glass, so disintegrated that only chemical tests could indicate what it had been." And later he told me, "I cannot understand what sort of force reduced it to absolute powder. Broken pieces I could accept, even down to microscopic size, but powder -- " And throughout those busy days I found myself listening to the sound I had sensed on our landing day, cadences not heard but felt, as if barely penetrating to me from another world. I had one day of unbelievable bliss. Our photographer caught me. "Something I saw yesterday would interest you, Chuck," he said, "their museum of musical instruments." My walk to that wing packed excitement not experienced since my first Christmas tree. Even though I had turned to science from my early dreams of becoming a concert pianist, music still remains a haven into which I retire for peace and refreshment of mind and soul. And here lay the musical history of an alien race, complete. I rushed through the aisles like a typical tourist anxious to see it all in ten glances. Then I started classifying methodically. As it had been with' us, music evidently began on this world with log drums and simple pipes of reeds. I found primitive ancestors of stringed instruments, though empty centuries had removed, for the present, identification of what substance had been their strings. I surmised gut. It is awesome and strange how powerful the physical forces of these things we call planets, suns, galaxies, universes loom in determining the patterns of things, even those items formed by minds and fingers of living creators. The fact frightens me at times; I wonder if I might not be, after all, nothing but a marionette dangling on pieces of thread. Separated by the mysterious limitlessness of space, light years of distance, and millennia of time, my people and this alien civilization produced essentially the same devices for making sweet sounds. Oh, there were some differences, but I could recognize horns and woodwinds, and the strings and percussions. Windowless ages had rotted earlier groups whose basic substance was wood. However, as I worked into periods of metal I found better preservation. Some responded to my attempts to blow them, causing me to abandon systemmatic classification for the balance of the afternoon while I tried one after another. I had fun making Earthside music on alien horns. Some fingered instruments, resembling our own recorders, did not give back interval patterns exactly like those of Earth's music. I saw a fascinating avenue of research opening for me, studying the scales of this dead race. R eed instruments were unplayable until I reached a section displaying the final era in development of this alien art. There woods and metals had given way to various forms of plastic. Surprisingly, their reeds were also of molded material and still marvelously flexible. And I thanked all the powers for the thoroughness of my conservatory training; I still possessed enough background to bring harmonious sound from the throats of these alien substitutes for clarinets and oboes and bassoons. They were strangely mellow, with astonishing sweetness and resonance and astounding amplification, much stronger than Earthside woodwinds. Then I came upon the ultimate forms of their drums, what we would have called tympani. I thought they were mock-ups, for their kettles appeared to be the rosy white stone which had mystified Jim Larsen and me on the terraces. Drum heads were fashioned from sheets of the same rock cut so thin that light cast shadows: through it. From idle curiosity I thumped one slightly and jerked back in surprise at the thunderous tone which answered. One after another I touched them and got responses no percussion man in an Earthside orchestra could have achieved through his sticks. I discovered their uncanny flexibility -- shattering explosiveness from light finger taps, thrumming resonantly when the touch was soft and quick, a lingering echo if my fingers rested an instant, and low vibrations which were indescribable and disturbing when I alternately pressed and released the stone diaphragm. I could not resist sending out sonorously rolling patterns into the soft summer air, following them with whispering pulsations, building chords on drums tuned to different frequencies. And echoes suddenly surged back from the white cliffs miles across the valley, doubling the rhythms of my drums. I reacted with ecstatic excitement to the power of these instruments. Then I heard a shrill scream behind me. "Stop! Stop your nonsense!" Director Litzanov was shouting. He leaned against an arch, exhausted from running. I asked, "What is the matter?" and found strong projection necessary for drum thunder still rode the air around us. Gasping breaths shook him. "Doctor Maxwell, this behavior is incomprehensible to me." I grinned sheepishly. "Got carried away, I guess. But look at this room. One whole segment of that vanished society complete for us to study." "You are not accomplishing that purpose by spending precious time at noise making, sir." "We can hear those instruments IF as the aliens heard them," I protested. "It's a treasure find!" "We are concerned with a descriptive record of this people, Doctor Maxwell, not with becoming one of them." I bumbled along, forgetting his irrational attitude toward music. "If we are lucky enough to find samples of their music scores we can bring their compositions to life again with their own instruments. The chord structures and melodies of a civilization make almost perfect mirrors to the cultural and psychic attitudes of its members." "The pranks you are indulging in cause distracting annoyance to those of my team who try to work," he napped and turned away. I called sharply, "Doctor Litzaov, are you allowing some phobia to blind you to the value of this find?" He left without comment. Throughout our wrangle echoes still pounded back from both sides of the valley. Their sound reverberated more than an hour, merging finally and becoming lost in that strange vibration which had poured itself through me from my first moments on this world. I was too angry then to wonder at noise continuing so long after its initial impulses had been given. A musical note is simply a wave of physical energy which must subside in seconds by reason of having no generating agent to keep the level of its force constant. Even an echo cannot extend its life beyond another moment. Morning brought regret for my impromptu drum concert; Litzanov blocked further exploration into alien music. "My assistant will finish that wing, Doctor Maxwell," he told me. "The work is simple classification; it would be a waste of talent to burden you with trivia and routine." I shrugged. "Since we feel the central structure on this pyramid is religious in nature, significance of murals which cover its interior has become important. You will contribute to our studies if you determine whether any allegorical meaning resides in the pictures." There was nothing to do but shoulder my camera, take up my sketching pad, and go, with faithful Binky trotting along. In the amphitheatre surrounding the temple, ghosts walked with us down the aisles. I felt no shame acknowledging a grisly shiver when I turned at the front, for enough mummified figures remained upright in those seats to create illusions of a vast audience watching me, alien dead come to stare through empty eye sockets. I moved into the central building irrationally feeling that a hundred thousand spectators saw through its walls and counted my steps. sharply clear, showing little of the amber of Earth's Sol; inside violet tinted the air to gossamer unreality. Cursory examination had shown this central temple to be a tower, nearly two hundred feet square at the base, tapering slightly until its height broke out above that of the four corner buildings. From there it slanted to complete the great pyramid's tip. An entrance corridor opened from each side.   traversed one of these passages and stepped into fantastic beauty. We saw before us a spacious round hall whose walls glowed with the murals I had come to study. Unearthly richness of reds and purples and blues, crackling golds and greens pounced upon me. Somehow light lay behind the pictures, deepening perspectives so that to look at a painting was to see far into a threedimensional illusion. I said, "Binky, we've wandered into fairyland," and felt him clinging to me. Hardly an inch of that interior was free from the radiance of those murals. My eyes followed up, past tier on tier of rose suffused white stone balconies, two hundred feet, to a canopy of delicate rose and white lace intricately carved from crystalline rock. I stared, mind seething, wondering at the apparent strength of it, for stone tendrils completely spanned the hall's hundred foot spread. Through its interstices I saw other sheets of delicate carving hung above that. Darkness should have drowned us at the bottom of this enormous circular well, for nowhere could I find a window in its smooth sides, nor detect artificial light. Yet every inch of the vault was flooded with violettinged brightness which seemed to be daylight conducted through the huge crystals of stone from w:u:h the building was constructed. There was no effect of transparency in the walls. Light apparently flowed downward in the hearts of their prismatic structure, to be diffused throughout the shaft. When one pauses in the midst of any enclosed space possessing colossal dimensions there is a constant stir of sound, like the surging whisper heard in a sea shell held close to the ear. This I thought was present. I accepted it as a familiar phenomenon until trained musician's perceptions told me there was no echo in this hall. Instead, that worrisome almost-sound of the planet vibrated through its vast emptiness, amplified until it seemed on the point of touching human ears with a definite note. I strained to hear it, but could not, quite. It floated about me like the memory of an unresolved chord, a maddening repetition of something incomplete and waiting interminably, suspended for the balance of time. Ramps led from balcony to balcony, and I called, "Come on Binky. Let's look at those carvings on the ceiling," loudly, to wake up echoes and reduce the eeriness of this hall to noises that were normal and acceptable. No echo responded. Two hundred feet is a long climb, taxing to the breath, but from the topmost balcony I could look down upon the filigreed canopy. An incredible expanse of stone openwork, carved into slender tendrils vining and twisting about each other, reached out in whorls and spirals covering that entire ceiling space, and at no IF point were they any larger than my wrists. Between the delicate designs I could see the floor's violet dimness as if from a mountain top. Just above me a second stone fretwork spanned the titanic hall, and three more were suspended above that, with dark roughness of the true ceiling showing beyond. I grew dizzy staring through fairy-like sheets of rose and white filigree, wondering how they could have managed to hang there unknown centuries without shattering. IV E vening is a thinking time. In its quieting coolness I poured impressions of the temple into Jim Larsen's patient ears. We watched a falling sun go through unfamiliar color stages, from blue-white through greens toward a deep gentian, finally to lose itself in purple afterglow. Then, as if crawling darkness, stalking that fleeing disk, had activated relays across the planet, the violet nimbus became visible, wavering like a ghostly phosphorescent mist from the gigantic pale mountain ridges, and the strange not-sound slipped back into insistent prominence, a spooky night-time song too deep for our ears. "Why would those aliens erect a massive building to enclose just one room whose diameter is not more than a hundred feet?" Jim's eyes twinkled. "Are you implying that Earth has never had its big-little men who have piled up imposing heaps of stone and mortar for their own glorification?" I shrugged. "I'm not ready to accept that hypothesis. Explain, with your geologist's wisdom, how those stupendous stone filigrees hang without collapsing under their own weight; more than two-thirds of the rock is chiseled away. They seem as fragile as sugar candy lace. What is their use?" "For the tensile strength of the rock I have no answer. But you evidently believe they are meant for more than ornament, don't you?" "A hunch. Here's another oddity: the interior walls do not parallel the outsides of the building. They show a slight S-curve. If you look downward through the stone filigree you get an impression of being suspended inside a monstrous horn or bell." George Pell, our semantics man strolled up the hill slope and asked, "May I join the company of gentlemen and scholars?" We made room for him and told him the gist of our discussion. I added, "I'm afraid Litzanov won't like what I think I'm finding in those murals." That brought Larsen out of deep thought. "How's that?" "They have an eerie beauty, Jim. Their colors are transparent and extremely rich. But wait until the director knows that the subject matter of every one is music -- those aliens listening or participating with trancelike ecstasy, sometimes portraits of musicians with zealous stares of prophets, and a few paintings emphasizing orchestral instruments against a swirling background of color. He's certain to throw me in the brig; I've bugged him enough with my guitar and those drums yesterday." George Pell grunted. "Hum-m-m! I'm intrigued. We've made progress into their written language, even though its basis is awfully foreign to Earthside concepts of linguistics. By coincidence you may have supplied us with a new key. A wild symbol had us stopped because in one context it apparently stood for diety, in others meaning like noise, or hidden things. Perhaps I should assume that their god and mysteries of his cult, and music with its creating instruments are all synonymous." I handed him a paper. "Can you translate this? It's an inscription I copied from a block of white rock in the center of the temple floor." Pell studied it, then offered rne three choices: Enter (meekly? humbly?) the (first room?) in the house of God (music?) high read?) through the house of God Seek (with pleasure?) the (happiness? devine experience?) in the (sound? house?) of music A fter breakfast I tried to sneak out of camp with my guitar and, of course blundered into the director's sight. He stood talking to Commander Jacobs, and his eyes followed me across the clearing. At every step I expected his nasal voice to call, "Doctor Maxwell, what are you doing with that contraption?" And I tried to formulate in my mind an answer to give him, feeling nakedly foolish when I realised how silly I would sound saying, "I just wondered if that pretty stone fretwork up there in the temple ceiling could be some kind of resonatoiy and I aim to play a little tune for it." But Litzanov had his mind on instructions to Jacobs, who was to take Explorer II off into space this morning for a week's reconnaisance around the planetary system. I did not feel secure, though, until I reached the temple and stood with my guitar by the white slab to pluck one string at a time and listen for response from the grids of' scintillating filigree above me. I didn't know what I expected to hear -- possibly an echo. However, arpeggios, chords, key changes all left them dead. Then suddenly, in the midst of discouragement, my ears caught the faintest whisper, as if a puff of wind had blown through the intertwining stone to leave them trembling. Binky stared nervously upwards, and I wondered if he had felt what I heard -- or imagined. I concentrated then on the key which produced this effect, trying all its chords, major and minor m all inversions. Finally, as the minor sweetness of the seventh chord on the dominant rang out, a shudder slipped through the lacey stonework overhead. I repeated it with increasing volume, and response was unmistakable, a thin tinkling that grew into an intermittant hum, as if the spiralling stone were loathe to arouse itself. Then the full sound of my chord took shape along the interconnecting tendrils, swelling steadily until the whole hall resounded like the inside of a bell. The chord still thrummed up there IF after I stopped playing, singing with that aching need of the seventh chord to be resolved. Then Binky's frightened stare and a sweep of chilled air behind me brought me whirling around. The stone slab, so solidly planted on that temple floor, was sinking lowly, its noise drowned by haunting clamor of music from the whorls of rock in the ceiling. Binky clutched my arm. Together we watched the white block come to rest, sloping into a recess below. I don't know what I expected to find underneath -- certainly not the very ordinary-looking room which presented itself. And I don't remember a single premonition that the slab might rise automatically to its original position, trapping us in the vault. Violet brightness filtered down through crystalline rock, lighting that room, so Binky and I walked down the ramp. We half slid into a square room, carved out of the white rock that was the temple's foundation. Not until Binky and I crossed to center did we discover the occupants sitting side by side, grinning death in their faces, three leather-hard mummies who had kept watch for endless centuries, empty eye sockets directed toward a large plastic cube which had concealed them from me. In the subdued violet glow their countenances seemed sardonic, as if frozen at the moment of grim laughter. The multitudinous dead on this planet had left our party relatively unaffected; remoteness of centuries precluded personal identification with this alien charnel house. Now, in the dimness, facing these three, with the plaintive repetitions of my unresolved seventh chord crying among those fantastic grids, I suddenly found those people were no longer strangers. I became vitally concerned over their destruction, and for the first time felt apprehensive for my own safety. Then -- I was hearing music, a far-off horn call, sustained and mellow. Gradually soft thrumming whispered under that persistent note, sound I had got from tympani in the museum. My eyes caught a jerk of Binky's hand; I knew the source. A recording instrument filled that cube near the alien dead; Binky had moved a knob projecting from it. Even so, my ears located the tune as singing from the grids in the great hall above us. Woodwinds added dulcet voices to the insistent horn note, racing in barely audible chromatics around it; string sections came in to deepen the harmony, sweeping it toward the bass until all low-voiced instruments of the orchestra had joined in a tremendous chord, held seemingly for eternity. When my ears felt ready to burst under the thunderous weight of its crescendo a lilting song, thin sweetness hauntingly filled with strange intervals of the aliens, crooned in the grid, modulating an infinite longing, non-human in sound, treme joy. Here was a legacy from a dead orchestra on a dead world playing with an effect that seemed to possess physical life. Two hours I sat in that dim vault, enthralled by the hypnotic sonority of that symphony, until finally the knob Binky had pulled clicked back to its original position and no more sound fed into the stone grids. Yet, harmonies of the climactic phrases continued to roar along its maze of twisting crystal vines like turbulence through a thundeiftead. I became certain now that this temple had been constructed as a gigantic resonance chamber. The enormity of the idea left me shaken. After Binky and I walked through the amphitheatre's lifeless audience and passed the circling arches, sound ceased to ring from the temple. Instead, with some shock, I heard the complete symphony again, its melodies clear and unmuddied, winging toward me from far-off cliffs bordering both sides of our valley -- rose white rocks lifting their voices to replay what had thundered from the crypt under that temple. V C amp was chaotic. Research team and maintenance crew faced the ridges like zombies. Larsen sailed in like a projectile on his skimmer to relate how white cliffs out where he conducted his geologic survey suddenly made music. I told them of the room underneath the temple, but Jim insisted, "I heard no sound from the pyramid. Listen; the tunes are from the mountains." "Nevertheless," I repeated, "their origin is a four foot plastic cube under the temple. What we're catching now is some sort of echo effect." Jim shook his head. "Not an echo." The white cliffs continued to throw that entire symphonic marvel over the miles throughout much of the night. Like one suffering unbearable pain Litzanov prowled until its cadences merged into the almost-sound during bleak hours before dawn. Squinting under sharpness of morning light he summoned me, his smile sour, his eyes haunted. "Life has concocted a devilish joke on me. Doctor Pell has found evidence that a significant part of this planet's social structure was based upon a racket cult. I shall be working with you today." The semanticist called from the breakfast table, "Its priesthood is involved in musical experiencing. Chuck, with rank or sacredness dependent upon ability to create greater complexities of composition. Their language is still so damned vague that I've just skimmed the surface." Jim Larsen joined us on the concourse. "I want to find out why I heard that music as if the mountain ledges originated the tunes." "Do you have any theories?" I asked. He shrugged. "The crystalline structure of this planet's rock must conduct sound with unbelievable efficiency. Frequencies evidently travel through it thousands of times farther than through the atmosphere, probably several circuits of the globe before any major damping occurs, and every time they reach the surIF face on one of those cliffs their vibrations are transmitted again into the air." "You are implying this whole planet is a transmitting and gigantic resonating device," I said. "Any other explanation?" Litzanov muttered, "Not this side of hell." Again I faced the huge slab with my guitar, posing for the inevitable motion picture sequence. Director Litzanov's pantomime called attention to importance of the filigreed stonework overhead, and instructed me to play. He awaited my music tensely, as if fearing blows from a whip. Involuntarily, hands covered his ears when my chord aroused reluctant stone tendrils and the rock started to sink. He was on the slab before it came to rest, in haste to run from twanging resonances battering the main chamber. "That much hatred of music is neurotic," I shouted to Jim Larsen, and saw him shrug. But I found it possible to pity Litzanov as I watched his cringing anticipation of every booming accent. Binky headed for the plastic cube facing the mummified aliens, to pull the knob which touched off last evening's concert. Litzanov cried, "Stop him!" I did, barely. T he director spoke thickly. "I am resigned to necessity for some of this devilish noise, but I hope we can undertake our study with as little of it as possible. Now, Doctor Pell, you formulated theories of a rigid priesthood caste, with possible deification of this organized racket people call music. We'll follow your lead temporarily." Pell answered, "If I'm right we should find a series of rooms, each with a barrier or sign permitting access only to specific ranks in the cult's hierarchy." I located an arched corridor which led us down to a lower level. There we discovered the second room. As Pel predicted, an inscription was carved over its arch. "These symbols are tricky," Pell said, "but roughly it dedicates this crypt to someone who apparently brought his people to blessed communion with their god by creating more melodious music." Although the compartment was four square, buttress-like sections jutted from its walls and pointed toward the same kind of plastic cube Binky and I had found above. Again three age-dried husks of the ill-fated race faced it. Uneasiness nagged as I listened to my seventh chord chiming through the grids of the colossal hall two levels above us. The peak of its sound had been reached, and the chord was now diminishing. Litzanov was saying, "Doctor Maxwell, you will oblige me and our colleagues by keeping that deaf-mute's hands from this recording device. I should appreciate an opportunity to examine this chamber in silence." I voiced my vague apprehensions. "We'll need to pull that lever for our own safety, Doctor Litzanov." He stared. "Why?" "That rock on the temple floor opened at the sound of music. I am sure it will trap us down here the moment my guitar chord ceases to vibrate through that grid." "Then suppose you walk back up there periodically and renew the noise with your tinkling gadget. At least that won't make us endure hours of punishment while this infernal music machine runs through its repertoire."  I obeyed unhappily. Non-musical people do not understand the peculiar torture an unresolved chord inflicts, especially that leading tone of the seventh. It sings with an unearthly sweetness but must modulate quickly or it becomes an unending wail of loneliness and futility. 'Vfc# r hen I returned to the tomb  like depths I found Larsen and George Pell in excited discussion before another carved inscription between two buttresses. Oblivious, Litzanov puttered with the three mummies, measuring and writing meticulously. "It's another dedication," grunted Pell. "Names another person whose music took his race farther toward divinity." "Shouldn't they mark an entrance into still another dungeon if your theory concerning the priesthood holds up?" I asked. I reached to feel the wall. Jim said, "That's one gigantic crystal without a crack. Evidently this room is the end of the line." "It can't be," George argued, "unless my translations are all wrong." And he sketched quickly a picture of the time-dusted dead he had gleaned from their records. Beauty had evidently been their creed -- benevolence in their weather, graciousness in their living, splendor in the purple phosphorescence which streamed from their mountain tops and kept night away from them. "There should be four of these rooms," Pell said, "dug at successive levels deeper under the temple. Each vault apparently represented in time the accession of a new high priest and was created to preserve his inaugural composition, the result of a life-time of struggle to purify himself and lead his people into a state of oneness with their god -- indicated in their documents by the same symbol which denoted harmonious sound. Evidently more crypts would have honeycombed the pyramid's heart if catastrophe had not struck. "The latest written records talk of preparations to crown a new high priest, culminating in a planet-wide festival at which his inaugural symphonic composition would first be played. I found descriptions of dignitaries to attend its premiere in the amphitheatre, and instructions for all the world's inhabitants to cease activity and listen when its divine harmonies sang to them from the ridges of crystalline stone. I found no accounts of the festival, nor of any events after it." I said, "You are intimating that whatever tragedy blotted out life here struck on that evening of celebration." George nodded. "Presumably." T hey called Litzanov into the discussion. I'm afraid malice prompted a suggestion I made. "The IF temple hall up there seemed to be the end of the line until I tried my guitar. Wouldn't the next logical step require us to assume the music cube over there is triggered to open a hidden doorway into room number three?" The director stared malevolently at me. "We'll try that twinging stand more racket than your guitar can make." I protested. "A door would have been tuned to definite harmonic progressions recorded in that cube. I doubt we could ever find the combination on my guitar." "Chuck is probably right," Jim remarked. Litzanov moaned with exasperation. "I suppose thoroughness demands that we pull the damned lever -- since we'll not be able to force a way to whatever might lie behind that wall until Explorer returns and we can get blasting equipment from her. Time's too limited for that, whatever the cost in jangled nerves. Go ahead." I moved the knob with undue alacrity. Music traced tentative paths across the delicate filigree and sang into the temple's resonating bell shape, seeming innocuous. Richly harmonized melody in the string sections ranged through strange intervals of the alien's scale, a simple song theme, a tiny bit sad, slightly lonely, a little lazy, but filled with subtle undercurrents of reflective joy hinting of visions beyond present moments. As the music swelled toward climactic measures other instruments caught the tune and began its development. Then suddenly sound was in those triangular buttresses jutting from the walls of our crypt, giving depth to what issued from the grids far above the dungeons, enriching total effects of the symphony in the manner that addition of many more instruments to each section of an orchestra heightens its tonal impact. Binky reached for me. "You can't hear it, can you, Binky?" I asked aloud, and realized what had disturbed him; I was feeling this music as well as taking its impressions through normal paths of the ears. Definite energy waves whipped nerves throughout my body to thousands of infinitesimal movements I could not localize, as if the sound had become a physical force battling with light blows aimed from those buttresses. A glance at Larsen and Pell told me the same phenomenon affected them. I worried about Litzanov; he would be demoralized, hating this music rather than becoming caught up in it aesthetically. Then I forgot them, becoming increasingly disoriented with almost painful harmonies reaching and awakening my senses, one at a time. I heard more dimly specific melodies with their unbelievable arabesques racing upward until they swept beyond the limits of my ears than sank into the narrow band of sound possible for human senses to distinguish, then soared again, leaving me in an agonized straining to follow. I saw nothing but grayness and darker shadows now. Impressions of release from restraint of walls stole through me, as if I were delivered from my body, ecstatically free, afraid to see too deeply into darkness lurking just beyond the cocoon of music. A forest's dampness touched me. I smelled pungence of pines and dank decay of fallen needles. I felt sharply chilled, as though the fogs of Carmel had swirled over me. I was tossed in the wild surf that pounded those beaches. I drifted like a gray mist among their stunted trees -- and felt small and alone. No concept of time was left in me. Judging from the symphony released yesterday by Binky's fingers, we passed at least two hours in trance-like enslavement to esoteric harmonies. Without knowledge of when it came about, I found myself again recognizing colleagues in the room. Larsen and Pell stood dazed, staring down where a square of floor had sunk to reveal a ramp leading to a lower level in this pyramid. I realized only soaring aftertones of that hypnotic composition now muttered in those fantastic grids hanging in the tower. I remembered Litzanov and saw him on one knee, clawing at a buttress for support. The others came to help me ease him down. The man's appearance frightened me. His face showed a bloodless gray, and he drew breath with labored gulps. Nevertheless he sat up after some moments and spoke, barely above a whisper. "This is hellish torture." "We'll do a quick survey of the next crypt below and let you rest here,' suggested Jim. We called the medic over from the museum and left Litzanov with him, then filed down the ramp. A labyrinth enfolded us, alight witll violet-tinged brightness filtering through its convolutions. Instead of hollowing a conventional vault ancient artisans had carved rock out to leave a replica of the titanic filigreed canopies which spanned the temple's ceiling. Centered and joined to the twisting stone vines sat the familiar plastic cube and three time-embalmed custodians. More carved symbols above a slight concavity faced us from one side of the crypt. "That will be as you predicted. George," Larsen muttered, "room number four." "With maybe the greatest of all the symphonies recorded in its cube," I added. "Music its audience never heard through," Pell commented. I ntense exhilaration gripped me; tunes of the past hours sang in my head. Yet I felt cold, debilitated, as if recovering from fever. Even so, I saw with unnatural clarity, like the blind rediscovering a wonderous world. "I want to hear that symphony," I announced. "We've got to go into that room." Jim agreed. "It's a rugged experience to take on two such concerts in succession, but I'm with you." "Let's persuade the director to go on back to camp first." Pell's voice was unsteady. "I think I would IF follow him and leave the field to you fellows if I didn't hope solutions to the puzzle of this dead world might lie in that vault. A day on the rack would have been less painful thn what that music did to . A ff me. We started to the ramp. Jim was saying, "There's no doubt; each of these rooms has been dug deeper into the heart rock of this planet and modified, evidently with advanced understanding of using the resonating characteristics of this planet. The whole globe definitely possesses hair-trigger sensitivity to vibration." I broke in. "The strange almostsound I hear constantly?" "Waves set up in the rock by wind currents and changes in atmospheric temperature." We met our director on the ramp, walking unsteadily down, using the medic's arm for support. Larsen protested, "You're in no condition to continue without a rest." The medic muttered, "Hope you're better at persuading than I was." And Litzanov shook loose from the doctor like a wilful kid, repeating, "We'll finish this job now. I don't intend to stretch my endurance over any more days." He headed for the recorder cube and its guardian mummies, deaf to argument. The medic gave up. "I've given him tranquilizers. Maybe that will carry him through." Jim asked, "Was it his heart?" And the medic shook his head. "Looked like it at first, but I heard no indications of it. Exhaustion -- hypertension, maybe." In spite of illness Litzanov arranged another picture before proceeds ing, pantomiming pointing out to us the cube, irridescent whorls of fretwork, indicating carved symbols betraying the fourth entrance to be opened by final chords of music we intended to activate in this room. None of the director's construction of his public image was as crass as my description sounds. He simply contrived to be the center of any discovery, and made certain the scene was preserved for Earth viewing. Senior members of our rese'-rch team accepted the situation, some because they loved their work more than lime-light, some because a seat by his throne insured a share of the gravy. His name weighed heavily with those who hired and fired on Earth and sat in high posts because they could find men like ipulation of men's destinies, to help inflate their balloons. The cynical question to ask it: are these titled few aware of creating this breed of learned leeches upon whose offal they feed, or is there such confusion in their administrative minds that they truly accept a notion that they are capable of standing high above the crowd without crawling up on the shoulders of others? VI L itzanov became physically smaller as he faced the moment when we must activate the music cube. He knew we held in our hands the most spectacular find in man's history of exploration, and to have credit for it printed by his name in Who's Who and other vanity mirrors he had to make his investigation personally. To relinquish completion of its examination to someone else was to risk having the title and claim for the entire project upon a rival's page of fame. And if Pell had not read the alien records rightly, and there happened to be a fifth -- or sixth or seventh -- room, each also must be entered by the sound-tortured director to preserve his image for posterity and his right to title of discovery. Fear clouded his eyes, but he bruskly nodded permission to pull the lever. We felt the initial tones rather than heard them, like the lowest pedal notes on a gigantic organ. I knew there was sound because my whole body responded to the lift and fall of long slow waves. I sensed tremendous amplification of the music, its energy sucking my breath as if I faced a hurricane. Pressure built up on my ear drums, bringing excruciating pain even after I covered the orifices with my palms. I felt vibration through the flesh of my hands as they pressed against my ears, and a steadily increasing warmth as if a fever were growing in me. I knew there were extremely high frequencies pouring through me, how high I had no sensory equipment capable of telling. Then sound within the range of perception came into the composition, harmony with timbre and resonance so piercing that it closed my throat, changed the heart beats at will, caused tears to flow against effort to gain control of emotional reflexes. This was something so far beyond the orchestral piece which had struck Litzanov down that I worried and tried to focus enough to see him. A shadowy impression of him prone on the floor was all I could catch, and all the attention I could spare him. Thunderous chords suddenly beat at me with the force of tornadic wind, slamming me against the cube. -- aH in September Worlds of Tomorrow , plus many more. Don't miss Itl IF And just as unexpectedly, ringing melody superceded and lifted me into wild ecstasy, higher and higher until I thought its insistent tune could tear me to bits. And as quickly, the music dropped me into hells where sound became demons with needle-sharp claws. I felt responses from areas of my body I had never been aware of; every individual atom oscillated in cumulative multiplication of movement accompanied by the generation of unbearable heat. Blood was streaming from my nose. I clung to the plastic cube which had unleashed this fiendish torture, with no strength left. And paradoxically, through the pain and fever I was flooded with singing tunes so compelling that I cried aloud and screamed with the emotional surge of their beauty. T hen suddenly I experienced the tearing strike of a heart pain; it ripped through my chest in nightmare spasms, like the crushing strides of Death. Destruction was here for all of us unless the music could be stopped -- perhaps too late even now. I tried to concentrate, to hold consciousness and reach the knob. It was only a foot or two from my hand. Between increasing lightning thrusts of chest piin and irregular racing of heart beat that stopped my breath, I struggled to slide toward it, but I think only my fingers moved. In flashes of lucidity I had impressions of Binky rushing about the room, running to look into my face, fading into nothingness when pains slashed at me. Once I saw his hand on mine, but could not feel its touch, nor ask his help. Then redness blinded me, and I knew capillaries in my eyes had burst. And after that came darkness. It seemed to me that something had been tugging at me throughout all eternal time. A roughness moved under me in jerks. I could see dimly. I couldn't hear. Fear of drawing breath followed, with automatically a frightened catch to keep it shallow, expecting pain to strike. Hurt did sit like a crushing weight upon my chest, but only a shadow of its remembered self. Then it was Binky's face over me, recognizable, and mind and eyes cleared enough to see gem-like colors of the temple walls, and to realize he had probably dragged me up those ramps from the death crypts beneath. But I could neither hear nor move. He disappeared, then grayness took me again. I have no memory of being transported to camp. Explorer II returned next day from its investigation of the near planets, and we were all taken aboard. That part was dreamlike. We had been many days in space before I could assimilate details from Commander Jacobs. They think Binky dragged us all out of that hellish trap, one at a time. The music had struck those at camp also, but not so lethally. Coming from the white cliffs it had evidently lost enough of its intensity during transit through underground rock. However, many hours had elapsed before anyone had strength to hunt for us at the temple. T hey found me dazed and incoherent. Pell, Litzanov, and the medic were dead. Jim Larsen is still in a state of shock, hardly routing whenhe is moved, but expected io recover. Binky apparently had not been affected beyond extreme nervousness and unprediptably irrational actions since. And sometimes, as I sit up in my hospital bed dictating this report, I think he hears sounds from my mouth, dimly, and I wonder if the strength of that demon music found a way into dormant nerves of his ears and stirred them to half life. And between the surges of thankfulness that Fate placed Binky under my care on Explorer II, I wonder about that planet, with its beautiful empurpled ghost aura, so many years across black space, carrying orbit around a blue-white sun which cannot warm them back to life. I wonder that the excess of anything, even beauty, can become the executioner of its seeker. And I am caught in its net. The planet's music sings through my inner ear the moment my mind is released from necessity to deal with routines. Irresistible compulsions will drive me to study it, for it is cojii position so grand that a Beethoven of Earth seems nothing but a' tinkling contriver of popular tunes. I shiver at once with apprehensions and the desire to hear that symphony we did not play, imprisoned in the fourth plastic cube, the glory of sound which killed its world. There will be another expedition to finish studies we left undone there, for man cannot bear not to know. I want to be a part of it. During the restless hours which fill my nights I think in circles -- surely a way can be found to filter that sound so I can listen in safety, or shut it out if necessary. Perhaps this is a death wish, but, God help me, I will not rest until I've tried to hear it, for the memory of that alien music is a demon of exquisite beauty, Coming soonl Galaxs Fifteenth Anniversary Issue All your favorites in the October Fifteenth Anniversary Issue of Galaxy -- subscribe now, or reserve your copy at your newsstand todayl IF IF  Short Story Ever speculate why you aren't smarter than you are? Here's why -- and what to do about it! M 'Lord received the message on Moonbase One with a feeling of complete dismay. Why, this species was # to # of their years from the type of development Galactic Central was asking for! Yet the message was specific. The Korm'aans according to present calculations by Computer Center, would begin a sweep through this spiral arm of. the Galaxy, and Galactic Central would need a developed people as an ally. Get them into condition to receive Galactics without fear in # of their years? Capable of offering their resources freely? Capable of assistant labor? Capable of being an ally, however weak? Forced stimulation was one thing, and he'd watched it tried. It could work, though normally it simply killed off the stimulated species. "The greater good for all the peoples of the Galaxy demands that we take a chance on sacrificing this species," the message added, a sop to his conscience, since the message was an order, not a request. "We will then have either an ally of a weak but unhampering variety, or a planet of the proper Z characteristics returned to the primitive form from which we can operate unhampered by a developing and possibly resentful native intelligence." The methods were left to him. By all the rampletes of knowledge of all Computer Center! What stimulus could you apply to a species barely into their iron age to get them to an intelligence level where they could even stay out from underfoot in a mere # years? Especially when each member of that species required a full one-tenth of that time to develop to the stage of speciesmaturity; and the useful life-span of individual members was a possible # of those years? Obviously, it would have to be a nerve-stimulus. And just as obviously it would have to be broadcast to affect the entire species. Electronic, of course. But they weren't even capable of electricity yet, much less electronics. That, in the normal sequence-pattern that their development showed, would be at least # of their years in their future. And you couldn't introduce a broadcast electronic stimulus trom within the culture immediately. Even with only # years available. That would be sure death, though Galactic Central did say they'd as soon have the planet returned to the primitive... N o. The stimulus would have to be confined to wires so that it could spread slowly, and so that it would act as a stimulus only when a member of the species was within a few miles of the wires. Too abrupt an introduction of a stimulus would be surely fatal, and Central had specified an attempt to develop these creatures. These sheep. And I, their shepherd, must take a chance on ruining the flock that shows such promise; that I have spent my career in nurturing! He knew a moment's sadness before he set himself to the task at hand. Very well. The best stimulus, of course, was the # cycle alternating current; and it must be introduced in such a way that it would grow through the culture, until finally each member of the species -- at least the major groups -- were subject to the nerve-impact most of the time. But also in such a way that it was possible to escape from it. This would give the most aware a chance to withdraw occasionally and give their nerves a rest. You couldn't introduce the stimulus from within directly as AC current at # cycles. Best to introduce the battery and let them play with direct current for a matter of -- say # to # of their years. There would be no stimulation there, and Galactic Central might consider the time wasted, but you had to give a species time to play with and prepare for the type of battering ram that was inherent in being subjected to a constant # cycle nerve-system jokingly playing upon them whenever they were within appreciable distance of wires carrying the frequency, if you planned to see that those wires webbed the culture almost inescapably. With a sound that might have been translated as a sigh, M'Lord summoned his teslars. T he full #-year interval since the introduction of the battery on Alterra had passed, and M'Lord realized with some disquiet that he now had no further excuse for delaying the introduction of alternating current. The species had done well; had taken the new 'toy' handed them so IF unobtrusively, and made it their very own. They had examined its possibilities with, actually, more keenness than even he, who had devoted his entire working period to their care, had expected. And just the introduction of the battery itself must have had a stimulating affect on the creature -- or perhaps his teslars had dropped a few unauthorized hints -- for still on his own, the creature had jumped from the iron age to steam, smelting, telegraphy -- Really remarkable! M'Lord was proud of the Alterrans. Yet he was probably to be the instrument of their destruction, he knew. Galactic Central was getting far too impatient for him to dally longer. The stimulus itself must be applied. And under that stimulus, the nervous systems of Alterrans would either respond with a surge that would take them far beyond their ability to cope with themselves; or those nervous systems would wither completely, leaving the Alterran an animal subject to his environment. If that occurred, he would be shortly wiped out, for in developing his ability to alter his environment to his. needs, the creature had sacrificed his ability to survive as an animal. However, the computers still extrapolated from Korm'aan strategy the probability of a move into this spiral arm, and the greater good... M'Lord summoned his chief teslar. This job must be handled delicately and the chief teslar would undertake it himself. A quarter century more was gone on Alterra, and stih the necessary alternating current had been introduced only as a potential. The potential was strong. The ground work had been well laid. But the first of the two centuries was passed, and the Alterran was still within his normal framework -- slightly altered; slightly advanced; but still essentially the same creature, with no potential of the necessary drastic change. And with these slow-butsurer methods, the overall webbing of this culture with the wire that would carry the drastically-effective # cycle alternating current wouldn't be accomplished for another quarter century! M'Lord had reason to worry. The species might be his charge, but Central was beginning to briilg pressure, and the Galaxy was Central's charge. When the signal interrupted M'Lord he brushed the communicator with an unusually brusk come-in response. "Chief teslar reporting, sir." M'Lord visuated his chief. Remarkable how the make-up fitted. "Even I wouldn't know you from an Alterran," he grumphed. "Sir, the Alterrans themselves have barely noted even my presence," his teslar communicated proudly. "I could not avoid being noted to a slight extent, or being credited with some developments. But only the brightest of this species even remembers my presence." "You've done a careful job, teslar, but a remarkably slow one," M'Lord causticked. "So slow that it will be a predictable # of their years before results begin to show." "Sir. May I be allowed free saying?" "Speak." "We have miscomputed them in including too large a resistance-todevelopment factor, sir. They are self-stimulating to a degree I had not thought possible. We have noted their violent reactions against progress, and the force with which individuals with new ideas have been put down, and developments refuted. But we have failed to note equally the force with which those new ideas and developments are put up. As they say on Alterra, it takes two to make a battle. "Again, we have noted the negative resistance factors that culminate in wars; but have failed to note the equally strong positive factors that cause them. And while we've watched the wars, we've failed to notice that individual arguments and group arguments are almost a way of life with this species! They argue. How they argue! Self-generated arguments at the individual, the group, and the cultural-center level, a constant... Because of this, our applied stimulus might work out as a release on their self-stimulus, both positive and negative, and act as an addition rather than as a basic! So much so that I -- Sir, complete free saying and no retribution?" M 'Lord visuated the teslar fiercely. "You're bordering on ultimate insubordination already! But yes, free saying and no retribution." "Sir, I altered the concept to a degree. I -- as the Alterrans would say it -- hedged your bets. I have arranged that one major portion of their culture only, the strongest, shall get the full #-cycle stimulus. In the remainder of their centers I have introduced the probability of the far lesser stimulus of # cycles." "You dared!" "Sir, we have not sampled their brain recordings for quite a period, and the patterns have advanced. The #-cycle may be too strong, even for the period of time allowed, # of their years under stimulus; at least # of their years under a complete webbing of the carrying wire." M'Lord leaned back. His own sympathies were with this species, although it was a weakness he could not admit. Yet, perhaps... "No retribution," he said, "for altering the plan. And it is possible that you have introduced a better potential. However... however, if the course of events does not justify..." "Yes, M'Lord." But even his chief teslar's reestimate proved to have been made with too large a negative factor. Within ten Alterran years a sketchy, initial wire webbing was in place in most of the planet's major centers, and the effects were astoundingly immediate. Within # Alterran years there was little of the culture that was not heavily webbed, and it was glaringly apparent that there was no danger whatsoever that the creatures' nervous systems would succumb to the impact. Not only the #-cycle subjects, but even those subjected only to #-cycle stimulaIF tion were now reacting with impossible leaps in technologies, analyses, and computational abilities. The life span of the individual to as much as a normal # to # years; while the maturity span, formerly an optimum # exclusive of senility, now included an average # of their years. The effects were so nearly immediate and so completely unpredicted that recordings were rushed regularly by special transport to the computer at Galactic Central, which began altering its entire series of time-potential-probability sequences to include the new time-potentials now being demonstrated. Galactic Central sent special observer crews. Y et the third decade following the initial introduction of the potential stimulus had nearly passed before the final factor fell into place that required reclassification of the species. Unemotionally, the computer removed Alterrans from the classification: "Sheep; to be coddled for potential slave-service to the Galactic peoples;" to the classification: "Predator." Almost as the reclassification was made, a command directive went by emergency beam to Moonbase One. "Akerran development must be reversed immediately," the directive read. "Apply stupidifiers. These must be introduced at once. If possible, impose from within. If necessary, emergency action may be taken and stupidifiers imposed from without. This species is a greater hazard than Korm'aan. No time can be wasted." M'Lord acted at once. Ultra-highfrequency radiation on a broadcast basis was indicated. Immediately. But, yes, it could be introduced from within with no time wasted. Low frequency broadcasts had already been developed by the species as an entertainment medium; and a war was making on the planet, so that a means of detecting enemy craft with high-frequency-radiation bombardment, which would hit the creatures as well as the targets, was a natural. The low frequency, long wave length entertainment broadcasts had had little if any effect on the nervous systems of the Alterrans, although the waves of radiation passed through their bodies as consistently as they did through the instruments built to receive them. Those long, looping wavelengths were far too large to be, at any point, contained within the body, and neither were they attuned to the body's own frequencies. Therefore they left no input signal with the body's nerve systems. Quite the contrary would be true of the ultra-high-frequency, ultrashort-wave-radar broadcasts as they filled the atmosphere with their signals. These wave lengths were short enough that each wave would be contained in microsecond intervals, complete within the nervous system; and whether or not they attuned the bodies own systems, they would leave an impulse . on the nerves -- an impulse towards unspecified action, so that the nerves would tense of action, and be unable to direct the tension and so relieve It. Again and again and again the ghost impulses would bombard the nervous systems, and the systems would alert. Alert -- tensions -- no translation; alert -- tension -- no translation -- and no relief. Nervous breakdown was inevitable. Nervous breakdown and complete myasthenia. R adar was introduced within less than one-half an Alterran year, on a formula his teslar had left sleeping as a precaution. The effects were, again, immediate, but the development failed to slow. Within two years it was apparent that radar would not be sufficient. The radar bombardment was constant; the myasthenia general throughout the species; but Alterran development barely relaxed its headlong pace, much less reversed. "They should be worn out -- completely frazzled -- on the way to primitive conditions -- in a state of breakdown as a species! There's a proportion of breakdown, but only a proportion -- and they're carrying that proportion and still heading into space!" M'Lord's chief teslar was as drawn and whorled as his master. "Apply hypnosis." M'Lord's communication was firm with a conviction and an authority he no longer felt. "Hypnosis, sir, requires the centering of each individual's attention. That is an individualized process, sir." "So?" "So it cannot be imposed from without! And there is no time to develop it from within the culture!" "Radar was developed by this species in time-elements measureable in increments of their years." "But this must be individualized, so that each member of the species is subjected..." "These creatures are on their way into space, in a condition of destructive-compulsion unknown in the Galaxy. You will find a method!" "Perhaps -- " The chief teslar was hesitant. "Perhaps, then, a major hypnotic is justified? A complete stupidifier? One that centers each individual's attention on a pattern of lights flickering at a pulse frequency near enough that of a main brave wave frequency to capture and alter the brain wave rhythm? But that would be catastrophic, sir!" His master grouched angrily, as much distressed as the teslar. "It must be so!" he affirmated. The teslar bowed his head. "I grieve with you, sir, if you will so permit me." Then he unslouched and communicated firmly. "We will introduce an instrument for screening transmitted entertainment in the home. It can be set to a flicker-rate near one of the creature's main brain-cycle patterns so that, watching it, he will unconsciously match the brain cycle to the flicker-rate and will become hypnotized. This will be easy, sir, in the areas where we have introduced #-cycle electric currents. This cycle frequency is nearly a divisive of their major brain pattern. However, in the #-cycle areas -- well, the hypnotic effect will not necessarily be as great, but the stimulation here has not been as great either, and the stupidifying IF effect of the applied hypnotic need not be as strong." T he initial development of optarad required a period of several Alterran years, while Galactic Central altered its plans for containing the spiral arm of the Galaxy from defense against the Korm'aan to defense against the new species. Plans were sufficiently detailed to include methods for enlisting the Korm'aan in common cause against the Alterrans. Then optarad was in production, the screen-frequency of its lightpulse set at a rhythm very near the dominant brain-wave of the species. The introduction was highly successful. Within a decade the daily habit of attention-centering on the instrument was nearly as broadly spread as the use of electricity. The hypnotic stupidifier was at work, aided and abetted by the nerve-frazzling broadcast of the ultra-high-frequency radar signals. Relaxing for the first time in # Alterran years, M'Lord waited for the commendation he felt sure would be forthcoming from Galactic Center. Radar had had around # Alterran years to take effect; the new optarad hypnotic frequencies had been played into the eyes of a vast majority of the leading Alterran creatures for five or more of those years. "My poor sheep," he thought regretfully to himself. "We turned you into predators, and must now put you to sleep. Yet -- perhaps I may find a way that you be allowed to safely graze; content and peaceful at last." The entry-port signal blinked, and M'Lord brushed the 'come-in' response with a sigh. "Chief teslar reporting, sir." M'Lord visuated his chief, who seemed rather excited. "Well?" he grumphed. "Sir, the hypnosis is not sufficient. Sir, it is numbing their brain centers -- but the brain capacity seems to be far larger than was indicated by the small portion they were using. As one area of each brain weakens, the stronger of the creatures adapt by putting another unused portion of brain into service to replace it. At the same time the weaker are reduced to apathy so that they are no longer in the way. These creatures, sir, are heading into space in spite of the hypnosis! Sir, our predictions fail by a factor of... " The communicator blinked the red emergency, and M'Lord watched his own nerve ends flare as he pushed the "here; begin" button. Hie communication spat out: "All plans whorled. Computer predicts these beings will have Galactic Mastership within approximately # Galactic years. The Korm'aan have made common cause with us, and you now serve as ambassador to both. Entreat for us free living and no retribution..."      IF  Novelette Burden to the lesser breeds without the law -- Relief will put it down I I A s Retief paid off his canal barge and stepped up on the jetty, Second Secretary Magnan pushed his way through the throng at the wharf entrance to the Royal Enclosure, his narrow face flushed with exertion. "There you are!" he cried. "I've been searching everywhere! Ambassador Splitwhistle will be furious!" "What's that on your head?" Retief eyed a half-inflated bladder of a sour yellow color which lolled over Magnan's left ear. Magnan rolled an eye up at the vari-colored cluster which bobbed with each movement, draggled feathers wagging and lengths of dirty string swaying, the entire assembly secure under his chin by a stained pink ribbon. "Why, that's my ceremonial Rockamorra headdress. Here." He fumbled in his violet afternoon tormal cutaway, brought out a bundle of puckered balloons and feathers, offered it. "This one's for you: you'd better slip into it at once. I'm afraid a couple of the plumes are bent." "Where's the Ambassador?" Relief interrupted. "There's something I have to tell him." "There are a number of things you'll be expected to tell him!" Magnan snapped. "Including why you're half an hour late for the Credentials ceremony!" "Oh oh; there he goes with the staff, headed for the temple. Excuse me, Mr. Magnan." Retief pushed off through the crowd, made his way to the wide doorless entry to a high, blocky structure at the end of the courtyard. A long-legged, shortbodied neckless local, with immense flat feet, wearing an elaborate set of ruffles and holding a pike, waved him through. The Ambassador and his four staff members were grouped in the gloom a few yards distant, before a gaudy backdrop of luminous plastic in slime green, dyspepsia yellow and cirrhotic pink. "... classic diplomatic coup," SpHtwhistle was saying. "I should like to see the look on the faces of our Groaci colleagues when they learn we've stolen a march on them!" "Mr. Ambassador," Retief started. S plitwhistle spun, stared for an instant at a point just above Retiefs belt-buckle, then tilted his spherical bald head back, gazed up at his junior. "I've warned you about pussyfooting, Retief!" he yelped. "When you're around me, stamp your feet when you walk!" "Mr. Ambassador, I'd like -- " Splitwhistle raised a small, plumpfingered hand. "Spare me a catalogue of your likes and dislikes, Mr. Retief! The ceremony is about to begin." He turned to include a wider audience. "Gentlemen, I trust you all observed my handling of protocol since our arrival here on Rockamorra this morning. Scarcely six hours, and we're about to become the first diplomatic mission ever to be accredited to this world! A world, I need not remind you, with a reputation for vigorous commercial activity and hostility to diplomats; and yet I -- " "Before this goes any farther, Mr. Ambassador -- " Retief cut in, "I think -- " "May I remind you, sir!" Splitwhistle shrilled. " am talking! About a subject of vast importance, namely myself! Er, my contribution, that is, to diplomatic history." A pair of robed Rockamorrans bustled up, waving elaborate candelabra which emitted a pungent odor and clouds of red and green smoke. They struck poses before Splitwhistle, intoned resonant ritual phrases in sonorous tones, then stepped back. One pointed a thin, multi-jointed webbed digit at Retief, made a sound like a saw-blade dragged across a base viol string. "Where's your headdress, Retief?" Splitwhistle hissed. "I don't have one. What I wanted to tell you -- " "Get one instantly! And take your place in my entourage!" The Ambassador moved off at the heels of the local officials. Magnan, rushing up at that moment, waved the bladders excitedly. "Don't bother inflating it, just get it on!" "Never mind that," Retief said. "I won't be needing it." "What do you mean? We all have to wear them." "Not me. I won't be taking part in the ceremony; and I advise -- " "Crass insubordination!" Magnan gasped, and rushed off in Splitwhistle's wake as large bouncers moved in to bar Retief's path. I t was a colorful ceremony, involving a vigorous symbolic beating of the diplomats with real laths, immersion in a pond which, to judge from Magnan's nose when he surfaced, was considerably chillier than the bracing morning air, and finishing off with a brisk run around the compound -- ten laps -- during which the panting Terrans were spurred to creditable efforts by quirt-wielding native dignitaries loping along behind them. Retief, observing the activities from a position among the curious at the sidelines, won ten credits in local currency on Splitwhistle, whose form he had correctly judged superior to that of his staff. Amid a tolling of deep-toned gongs, the Rockamorran officials herded the wheezing Terrans together and read off a long speech from a scroll. Then a small local stepped forward, bearing a six-foot sword on a purple velvet cushion port, Retief noted. A tall Rockamorran in mauve and puce vestments strode up to Splitwhistle and picked up the sword. The Ambassador backed a step, said, "Look here, my good man -- " and was prodded back into line. The sword-handler solemnly hung a beaded baldric over the stout diplomat's shoulderless frame and attached the scabbard to it. Then the locals fell silent, staring at Splitwhistle expectantly. "Magnan, you're protocol officer. What am I supposed to do now?" the Ambassador muttered from the corner of his mouth. "Why, I'd suggest that Your Excellency just sort of, ah, bow and then we all turn and leave, before they think up any more tortures." "All right, men: all together," Mr. Splitwhistle whispered hoarsely. "About face." Magnan yelped as the two-yard long cutlass connected solidly with his shin as the group turned; then they strode away, the Ambassador in the lead, drawn up to his full five feet, with the sword cutting a trail in the dust behind him. There was a happy mutter from the locals, then a swelling shout of joy; eager hands clapped the Terrans on the back, offered them sulphurette dopesticks, proffered flasks of green liquid as the ceremony broke up into mutual rejoicing. Retief made his way through the press, intercepted Splitwhistle as he pushed through. "Well, Retief!" the Ambassador barked. "Absented yourself from the IF proceedings, I noted! Having sulked in your quarters during the voyage out, you now boycott official functions! I'll see you in my office as soon as I've seen to the safe-keeping of this handsome ceremonial weapon I've been awarded." "That's what I wanted to tell you, Mr. Ambassador. It's not ceremonial. You're expected to use it." "What? Me use this?" Splitwhistle smiled sourly. "I shall hang it on the wall as a symbol -- " "Possibly later, sir," Retief cut in. "Today you have a job to do with it." "A job?" "I think you misunderstand the nature of the ceremony. The Rockamorrans don't know anything about diplomacy. They thought you came here to help them -- " "As indeed we did," Splitwhistle snorted. "Now if you'll stand aside -- " " -- so they're expecting you to make good on your promise. Now." "Promise? What promise?" Splitwhistle asked. "That's what the ceremony was all about. The Rockamorrans are in trouble, but you've promised to get them out of it." "I've already planned an economic survey -- " "That won't do the job, Mr. Ambassador. There's a ninty foot dinosaur named Crunderthush loose in the area." "Dinosaur?" Splitwhistle's voice rose to a squeak. Retief nodded. "And you've just sworn to kill him before sundown tomorrow." n # #T ook here, Retief," First Sec# -- ' retary Whaffle said into the silence. "How is it you appear to understand the proceedings, conducted as they were in the barbaric local patois?" "I didn't. They talked too fast. But I picked up a smattering of the language studying tapes on the way out, and I had a nice chat with the boatman." "I dispatched you to arrange for lodging and servants, not natter with low-caste locals!" Splitwhistle chirped. "I had to do a little nattering in order to rent rooms. The locals don't understand sign language -- " "Impertinence, Mr. Retief? You may consider yourself under suspension!" A group of Rockamorran officials had gathered, a column of pikemen behind them, stolid and menacing in green scaled breast-plates and greaves. "Ah -- before you confine yourself to quarters," Splitwhistle added, "just tell these chaps we won't be ever, I think I can promise them a nice little Information Service Library, well stocked with the latest One of the Rockamorrans stepped forward, ducked his head, addressed the Ambassador: "Honorable sir, I have pleasure of to be Haccop, interpretator of Terry mouth-noise learn from plenty Japanee, Dutch, Indian, and Hebrew Terry trader. We had nice chin-chin IF via telescreen before you-chap hit beach." "Ah, to be sure! Pity you weren't standing by during the ceremony. Now we'll get to the bottom of this nonsense!" Split whistle shot Retief a withering look. "I have heard... ah... rumors, to the affect that there's some sort of, ha ha, dinosaur roaming the countryside -- " "Yes, yes, excellent sir! Damn decent you-chap come along us." Splitwhistle frowned. "Perhaps I'd better clarify our position, just in case there was any confusion in translation. I am, of course, accredited as Corps Diplomatique Terrestrienne Ambassador Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to your government, with full authority to -- " "Hukk! With title like that, how can you miss?" Haccop exulted. "You want few our boys along for pick up pieces? Or you handle Crunderthush alone, catch more glory?" "Here, I'm a diplomat! My offer was to assist your poor backward nation!" "Sure. Swell gesture of interplanetary chumship." "Just a moment!" Splitwhistle thrust out his lower lip, pointing a finger heavenward. "I deal in words and paper, sir, not deeds! That is, I am empowered to promise you anything I deem appropriate, but the actual performance is up to lesser persons." Haccop arranged his wide features in what was obviously a frown. "Around this end galaxy, chum say, chum do." "Surely. And ##I speak to Sector HQ early next month when my vessel returns; I imagine something can be arranged." "Crunderthush on rampage nowl No catchem wait next month! You owner genuine Japanese-made sword; you use!" S plitwhistle's chins quivered. "Sir! You forget yourself! I am the Terrestrial Ambassador, not a confounded exterminator service!" "You-chap violate Rockamorran tradition number six-oh-two, passed two hours ago by Council of Honorable Dotards!" Splitwhistle unbuckled the sword, tossed it aside. Retief lunged, caught it before it hit the dirt, handed it to Haccop. Arms folded, the Ambassador glared at the Rockamorran. "Let me state unequivocally, at once, that I have no intention of attacking a dinosaur!" Haccop's face fell -- an effect like a mud-pack slipping. "Is final decision?" "Indeed so, sir!" The Rockamorran turned, spoke to the pikemen in glottal Rockamorran; they closed in, nudged Splitwhistle and the four diplomats who had participated in the oathtaking ceremony. "Here, what's going on?" the Ambassador yelped. "It seems they're taking you away to the local lockup, sir," Retief said. "They can't do this to me! And why aren't you included?" "I didn't take the oath." "You-chap move along," Haccop said. "Rockamorran got no time be patience with oath-busters." "H-how long will we be incarcerated?" Whaffle asked. "One day," Haccop said. "Well, that's not too bad. Your Excellency," Magnan pointed out. "We can spend the time figuring out an alibi -- I mean, of course, composing a dispatch to Sector Headquarters explaining how this is really a sort of diplomatic victory, in reverse -- " "Tomorrow, my good man," Splitwhistle barked at Haccop, "I can assure you I shall take drastic steps." "Have honor of to doubt that, faithless one," Haccop said. "Pretty neat trick take steps with head off." Ill S plitwhistle glared at Retief through the barred windows of his cell. "I hold you fully responsible, sir, for not warning me of this barbaric custom! I trust you've established communication with the Corps Transport and ordered their return?" "I'm afraid not. The local transmitter doesn't have the range." "Are you out of your mind? That means... " Splitwhistle sagged against the bars. "Retief," he whispered. ".They'll lop our heads off." A squad of Rockamorran pikemen rounded a corner, marched up to the Terrans' cell. "Well, you-chap ready to take part in execution?" "Just a minute," Retief said. "They promised to kill Crunderthush by sundown tomorrow. That's still a full day away." "True. But always have headcutting after lunch; pack in better house that way, at one credit per ticket." Retief shook his head. "Highly diplomats is perfectly understandable, but it has to be done in accordance with protocol or you'll have a squadron of Peace Enforcers in here revising Rockamorran traditions before you can say 'interference with internal affairs'." "Hmmm. You might have a poin there. Okay, we hold off until tomorrow night. Have torch-light execution, very colorful." "Retief!" Magnan gasped, pushing up against the bars beside Splitwhistle. "Isn't there some way to prevent this ghastly miscarriage of justice?" "Only way, youchap change mind, kill Crunderthush," Haccop said cheerfully. Retief looked thoughtful. "Do the Ambassador and these other gentlemen have to do the job personally?" "Posilutely! Can't have every Tom, George and Meyer getting into act. After all, killers o Crunderthush not only national heroes, win plenty refrigerator and green stamps too!" "How about it, sir?" Whaffle said. "Have a go, eh? Not much to lose..." "How? I can't kill the beast by firing off a dispatch!" "Maybe we could dig a hole and let him fall in." "Do you have any idea what size excavation would be required to inconvenience a ninety-foot behemoth, you idiot!" IF "Suppose the Ambassador had a little help. Would that be cricket?" Haccop cocked his wide head. "Is good questioning; have to check with Ministry of Tradition on that point." "I'd love to help, of course," Magnan said brightly. "It's just that I have this cough -- " "Yes, kaff kaff," Whaffle said. "Must be the damp air, all these confounded canals -- " "Will you let them out of the cell to scout the area and plan some strategy for the kill?" Retief asked. Haccop shook his head. "Nix. Oath-breakers incarcerated by order of Big Shots. Release also have to clear through same. But glad to check up after nap-time." "When will that be?" "Nap over late tomorrow afternoon; maybe Midget with shinyhead and pals have just time turn trick before deadline." "How can we kill a dinosaur while we're locked in here?" Splitwhistle demanded. "Should have think of this before break oath," Haccop said briskly. "Interesting problem. Interesting see how comes out." O utside, Retief drew Haccop aside. "I don't suppose there's any objections to my taking a look around? I'd like to see what this monster looks like." "Sure. Do what you like, no charge for look at Crunderthush, see free any time -- just so you got money pay way." "I see. I don't suppose you'd lend me an official guide?" "Correct. Rockamorran great tightwad, don't lend nothing, especially to foreigner." "All I have is pocket change. I don't suppose you'd cash a check?" "Hey, you skillful guesser, Terry!" "I can see it's going to be a bit difficult to get around, without funds." "Very shrewd analysis of situation." "Perhaps you'd advise me how I could earn some cash in a hurry." "Oh-oh, guess wrong that time, spoil record. Better find answer, though. You run out of cash, you automatically slave." "I get the feeling you don't much care whether this menace is removed or not." "Is correct assumptation. Big tourist drawing card. Also more fun this way, have something to bet on. Odds ten to one against Terries." "Meanwhile, he goes on eating people." "Sure, few peasants get devour, but so long Crunderthush avoid eat me, is no scales off my sitz-plats, in word of immortal bard." "Shakespeare?" "No, Egbert Hiesenwhacker, early Terran trader introduce cards and dice to Rockamorra." "Cards and dice, eh?" "Sure; you like play? Come on, have fun, forget troubles, help kill time up to big affair tomorrow." "That's a good idea, Haccop; lead the way..." ft was dawn when Retief emerged from the Rockamorran gambling hall; Haccop followed him at the IF IV end of a light chain attached to a steel ring riveted to his ankle, carrying a large basket of Rockamorran currency. "Hey, Retief-master, lousy trick fill up when I got three ladies of ill repute -- " "I warned you about those inside straights, Haccop. Now tell me something. All that information the boys gave me about Crunderthush's habits: was that all the straight dope?" "Sure, Retief-master. Pukka information." "All right, next stop the Ministry of Tradition. Lead on, Haccop." An hour later, Retief emerged from the Ministry, frowning. "It's not the best deal in the world, Haccop, but I suppose it's better than nothing." "Should have offered bigger bribes, boss." "I'm on a tight budget. Still, I think we have a fighting chance. I'm going to need a heli and a good pair of binoculars. See to it at once, and meet me at the Grand Canal in half an hour." "Boss, why worry about smalltimers back in hoosegow? Look, I got plan. We be partners, you deal and I circulate around behind opposition and signal with trick sunglasses -- " "We can discuss business later. Get going, before I report you to the Slave Relations Board for insubordination." "Sure, chief, chop-chop!" Haccop set off at a lope, and Retief headed directly for the nearest sportinggoods shop. H alf an hour later, Haccop dropped a second-hand floatmounted heli in beside the quay where Retief waited beside a heap of goods, waved cheerfully from the cockpit. Retief caught the mooring rope, pulled the light machine close, handed in his purchases and boarded "They say Crunderthusn is foraging a mile or two east of town. Let's buzz over that way and size him up." The heli lifted above the fern-like palms, beat its way across the gleaming pattern of canals and dome-shaped dwellings of Rockamorra City, gaining altitude; beyond the tilled paddies at the edge of the town a vast swamp stretched to distant smudges of jungle. "That's him, boss!" Haccop called, pointing. Retief used the binoculars, picked out a towering shape almost invisible among the tall trees growing in clumps in the shallow water. "He's big, all, right. But he seems to be eating tree-tops. I thought he was a meat-eater." "Sure, meat-eater, master. Dumb peasant climb tree get away, Crunderthush not have to bend neck." The heli approached the browsing dinosaur at three hundred feet, circled him while Retief observed. The giant saurian, annoyed by the buzzing interloper, raised his greatjawed head, emitted a bellow like a blast on a giant tuba. Retief caught a vivid glimpse of a purple throat wide enough to drive a ground-car through, studded with fangs like stalactites in a cave. "Friendly looking fellow. Is it possible to predict his course?" "Maybe. Crunderthush always take it easy, graze village over pretty good before move on to next. About done here, I estimation. By lunchtime start toward next stop, half mile south." "Let's cruise over that way." Haccop dropped the heli to a fifty-foot altitude, buzzed across the flat water, leaving behind a pattern of blast-ripples, bending the scattered reeds in the wind of its passage. "How deep is the water here?" Retief called. "Knee-deep at low tide." "When's low tide?" "Hour before sunset tonight." "What's the bottom like?" "Exquisite soft mud. Hey, master, you like go down scroonch around in mud awhile? Is good for what ails you." "Sorry, we Terries aren't amphibians, Haccop." "Oops, big excuses, chief. Not mean draw attention to racial deficiencies." "Will Crunderthush follow a straight course across the swamp?" The heli was over the mud walls of the next village now. Retief could see the inhabitants going about their business as usual, apparently undisturbed by their position next on the menu. "No telling, boss. Might get distracted by juicy fisherman or unwary swimming party." "Can we hire boats down there, and a few helpers?" "Retief-master, you got enough cash to hire whole town." He sighed. "That pot before last: I never figured you for eagles back to back -- " "No post-mortems," Retief admonished. "Land there, in the market-place." Haccop dropped the flier in, grinned at the quick gathering crowd of curious locals. "I tell hicks go away, give Retiefboss room walk abound, do little shopping?" he suggested. "Absolutely not; we're going to need them. Listen carefully, Haccop; here's the plan that I have in mind..." I t was late afternoon when Retief, wet and plastered to the hips with black mud, signaled to Haccop to land at the northernmost point of the village, a narrow finger of land edged by a baked mud retaining wall. Half a mile away, wading ponderously across the shallows, Crunderthush rumbled softly to himself. "That sound carried well across the water," Retief commented. "It sounds as though he's right on top of us." "And will be, plenty chop-chop," Haccop pointed out. "Retief-master think rpe across water make big fella fall down?" The Rockamorran waved a hand at the taut one-inch nylon cable stretched two feet above the surface of the water across the oncoming monster's path. "He won't get that far, if everything works out all right. How much time do we have? Another hour?" Retief asked. IP "Crunderthush stopping now to scratch." Retief observed the dinosaur sinking to his haunches, bringing up a massive hind leg to rake at the armored hide with two-foot talons, amid a prodigious splashing. "Maybe have hour, hour and half before dinner-time," Haccop concluded judiciously. "Okay, let's get moving! Get the hauling crew over here on the double. Have them attach a line to the center of the cable, and winch it this way until they can hook it over the trigger." He pointed over toward a heavy timber construction consisting of an eighteen-inch pile projecting a yard from the ground with a toggle mounted atop it. "Retief-chief, humble slave bushed from all day stringing wires to trees." "We'll be through pretty soon. How's the axe-crew doing with that pole?" "Top hole, sahib. Pretty near got nice point on one end, notch on other." "Get it set up here as soon as they're finished. Prop it in the two forked saplings the boys are supposed to set in the bottom out there." "Too many thing do all one time," Haccop complained. "Bwana Retief have strange hobby." "I'm taking the heli into town. I'll be back in half an hour, have everything ready just the way I explained it, or it won't be just Terry heads rolling around here," Retief warned. V 'The great pale sun of RockaA morra with its tiny blue-white companion was just sinking in a glory of purple and old rose as Retief returned to ground the heli at the village. "Ohio, Retief-san!" Haccop called. "All set, accordinglyto plan! Now we hit trail, plenty quick! Crunderthush too close for maximizing adjustment!" "Look at the creature!" Whaffle quavered, descending from the heli. "As big as a Yill Joss-palace -- and coming this way!" "Why have you brought us here, Retief?" Splitwhistle demanded, his jowls paler than usual. "I prefer beheading to serving as hors d'oeuvre to that leviathan!" "It's quite simple, Mr. Ambassador," Retief said soothingly, leading the stout diplomat across to where Haccop stood beaming beside the completed apparatus. "You merely use this mallet to hit the trigger. This releases the cable, which drives the lance -- " "R-R-R-R-Retief! Are you unaware that -- that -- " "I know. He looks pretty big at a hundred yards, doesn't he, Mr. Magnan? But he moves slowly. We have plenty of time." "We? Why include us in this mad venture?" Ambassador Splitwhistle demanded. "You heard what Haccop said, sir. You gentlemen have to personally kill the creature. I think I have it arranged so that -- " "Oh-oh, Master!" Haccop pointed. "Look like distraction! Couple drunks going fishing!" Retief followed the Rockamorran's gaze, saw a dugout pushing off with two staggering locals singing gaily as they took up paddles, steered for deep water on a course that would take them within fifty feet of the dinosaur. "Try to stop them, Haccop! If he changes course now, we're out of luck!" Haccop splashed out a few yards into the mud, floundering, cupped his hands and bellowed. The fishermen saw him, waved cheerfully, kept going. "No use, boss!" Haccop waded back to shore. "Look, better you and me make tracks, hit town farther up archipelago. Swell floating crap game going -- " "Mr. Ambassador, stand by!" Retief snapped. "When I give the word, hit that trigger, and not a second before!" He sprinted to the small wharf nearby, jumped into a tethered boat, slipped the painter, poled quickly out toward the Crunderthush. The monster was poised now, mouth open, gazing toward the fishermen. He emitted a rumbling growl, turned ponderously, took a step to intercept them. Retief, cutting in front of the dinosaur, waved his paddle and shouted. The giant reptile hesitated, turned to stare at Retief, rumbled again. Then, at a burst of song from the happy anglers, swung back their way. Retief stopped, plucked a rusty fishing-weight from the bottom of his skiff, hurled it at Crunderthush. It struck the immense leathery chest IF with a resounding whop! at which the monster paused in mid-swing, brought its left eye to bear on Relief. It stared, cocked its head to bring the right eye into play, then, its tiny mind made up, raised a huge foot from the mud with a sucking sound, started for Retief. He eased the boat back with quick strokes of the paddle. The dinosaur, tantalized by the receding prey, lunged, gained thirty feet, sending up a swell which rocked the tiny craft violently. Retief grabbed for balance, and accidently dropped the paddle. "Retief-boss!" Haccop boomed. "This not time to goof!" "Somebody do something!" Magnan's voice wailed. "He'll be devoured!" Whaffle yelped. The dinosaur lunged again. His power-shovel jaws gaped, snapped to with a clash of razor-edged crockery a yard short of the boat. Retief, standing in the stern, gauged the range, then turned and raised an arm, brought it down in a chopping motion. "Let her go, Mr. Ambassador!" he called, and dived over the side of the boat S plitwhistle, standing transfixed by the trigger apparatus of the over-size arbalest, gaped as Crunderthush raised his long neck twenty feet above the water, streaming mud, emitted an ear-splitting screech, and struck at Retief, swimming for shore. At the last instant, Retief twisted, kicked off to the left. The monster, confused, raised his head for another look; his eye fell on the diplomats on shore, now only fifty feet distant. At his glance, Splitwhistle dropped the heavy mallet, turned and sprinted for the heli. Four others gave sharp cries and wheeled to follow. As the stout mission chief bounded past Secretary Magnan he tripped, dived face-down in the soft dirt. The mallet skidded aside. Magnan sprang for it, caught it on the second bounce, leaped to the trigger, and brought the hammer down in an overarm swing -- There was a deep, musical boing! The sharpened twelve-foot hardwood pole leaped forward as the taut nylon sprang outward. Crunderthush, just gathering himself for the final satisfying snap at the morsel in the water before him, rocked back as the lance buried half its length full in his chest. Retief surfaced in time to see the dinosaur totter, fall sideways with a tremendous splash that swamped the sea wall, sent a tide of mud and blood-stained water washing around the frantic Terrans fighting for position at the heli hatch. Splitwhistle sat up sputtering as the flood receded from his position. Magnan sat down hard, fumbled out a hanky, watching the stricken monster kicking spasmodically. Haccop whooped delightedly, plunged into the water to assist Retief ashore. "Nice going! Siki. Plenty meat here for barbecue for whole town! Dandy substitute event for disappoint of not to see Terry headchopping after all!" Haccop said, delighted. VI D abbing at his mud-caked shirtfront, Ambassador Splitwhistle nodded curtly at Retief. "Having gotten me into this awkward situation, young man, I'm glad to see that you carried on to rectify matters. Naturally, I could have extricated myself and my staff at any time, merely by a skillful word in the right quarter, but I felt it would be valuable experience for you to work this out for yourself." "Hey, Retief-m aster, I form Terries up in column of ducks, go get fitted for leg-irons?" "No, I don't think that will be necessary, Haccop. ; "What's that? Leg irons?" Splitwhistle choked. "See here, you nincompoop, I've slain your monster, as required by your barbaric code! Now I demand -- " "Slave no demand nothing," Haccop said. "Slave hold mouth right, work hard, hope for escape beating." The Ambassador whirled on Retief. "What, may I ask, is the meaning of the idiot's drivelling?" "Well, Mr. Ambassador, the Rockamorrans have very rigid rules about this sort of thing. However, I managed to work out a deal with them. Ordinarily, you couldn't have any assistance with your promise." "Assistance? I seem to recall that you were disporting yourself in the swamp yonder when I -- er, ah -- a member of my staff, that is -- dispatched the brute!" "True. But the Rockamorrans seem to think I had something to do with it. Under the circumstances they agreed to commute your sentence to slavery for life." "Slavery!" "Fortunately, I was able to buy an option on your contracts -- provided you still had heads -- " "Buy up... ? Well, in that case, my boy, I suppose I can overlook the irregularity. If you'll just run along and see to my baggage -- " "I'm afraid it's not quite that simple, sir. You see, I still have to pay your upkeep. And since I've spent all my money buying you -- " Splitwhistle sputtered. -- I've had to hire you out to earn enough to cover living expenses until the ship gets back." "But -- but -- that will be weeks -- " "Okay, Terries; I, Haccop, am slave foreman. First job, strip out blubber from dead monster. Good job, take maybe two weeks, keep you in ration with maybe little left over for pack of Camels once a week." "But -- but -- Retief! What will you be doing in the meantime?" "Haccop tells me there's another dinosaur operating a few miles east. If I can bag it, that will give you another two weeks work after this job's finished. With a little luck, I can keep you going until the ship arrives." "Hey, Retief." Haccop came close, whispered behind his hand. "Maybe better bring thin-face slave name Magnan along you, me. Got idea Midget-with-bad-temper hold grudge, Magnan trip him and make him lose number one position in dash for heli." IF "Good idea, Haccop, bring him along." T wo hours later, Retief, Haccop and Magnan, bathed and clad in new Rockamorran hose and doublets, sat on a tiled roof terrace, dining on a delicately spiced casserole of white fish and sea vegetables. The view out over the town and the water to the east was three moons showed the silvery waterways, the island villages and, distantly, the great hulk of the dead dinosaur, its four legs in the air, and four tiny figures crawling over it like fleas. Their arms, wielding machetes, could be clearly discerned. "Retief, no time linger over succulent native dishes," Haccop said. "Plenty big game of Red Eye just getting under way at Tavern of Golden Ale Keg." "Don't rush me, Haccop. Order us a second round of drinks -- but none for Mr. Magnan. He doesn't indulge. The Ambassador doesn't approve of booze." Magnan blinked at him thoughtfully. "Ah, Retief, knowing your skill with the pasteboards and the, er, galloping dominoes, why couldn't you secure sufficient capital to provision Ambassador Splitwhistle and the others without the necessity for their stripping all that blubber?" Retief sampled the fresh drink the waiter put before him, nodded appreciatively. "Mr. Magnan, the ship won't arrive for at least six weeks, possibly longer. Would you recommend that a non-accredited diplomat with Ambassador Splitwhistle's personality be permitted to run loose among the Rockamorrans for that length of time?" Magnan looked grave, swallowed hard. "I see what you mean, Retief. But if he finds out, he'll be quite furious." "I don't intend to burden him with the knowledge, Mr. Magnan. Do you?" Magnan pursed his lips. "No," he said. "What he doesn't know won't hurt him, eh?" He managed a tentative smile. "Speaking of which, I think I'll have that drink after all." Next Month in If... These extra pages in If are giving us a chance to do some things that would have been out of the question before. Next month we complete Doc Smith's great Skylark DuQuesne serial... and we bring the first installment of another serial that's been asked for for a long time. More and more letters have been coming in demanding that we give Retief a chance to spread himself in a novel. We aim to please -- and so does Keith Laumer -- and next month we start Relief's War. Even for Retief, the planet he has taken on this time is pretty wild and wooly. Its inhabitants are half-animal and half-machine; its social structure is -- well -- chaotic; and its perils are extreme. Relief's War . Next month. Don't miss it. IF  Short Stor Alien Artifact There was something strange about the alien ship -- and not just about its origin! T he patrol craft Solar Sea was beyond the orbit of Pluto, when the radar chief signalled the captain's cabin. The captain, walking briskly, acknowledged the call with a groping hand at the night stand. "Captain here. Good morning!" "Radar, sir. Chief reporting." "What have you got?" the captain asked. "A big blip sir. Projected intersection at about a hundred thousand miles. Presently about one hundred forty thousand. Solid as a rock, sir." The captain fumbled again about the night stand, and squinting his eyes at the sudden light, rolled out of bed. "Keep on it. I'll be bridgeside when I've dressed." It was somewhat less than five minutes later that the captain stood with the radar chief, looking down at the circle of dim light that held its own universe of minute pseudostars and vaguely glowing gas clouds. "Big and solid," commented the chief. "Very big and very solid," said the captain, with no trace of excitement. "Randy says projected intersection now at approximately twenty thousand miles, Captain," reported the man at the computer control board. Like all the newer patrol craft, the Solar Sea had the latest in compact computer systems -- one of the hyper-efficient RandomSeries Portables. To the officers and crew of the Solar Sea t it was "Randy," and the ubiquitous "Randy only knows!" was a favorite in the ship's complement of assorted oaths and wisecracks. "Order Randy three-quarter deceleration, and stand by for full stop," called the captain from his position at the radar scope. The programmer at the computer board responded with an "Aye, aye, sir," and the ship shuddered as it braked. After an unsteady moment in which the captain held tightly to the hand rail surrounding the radar scope, he took the four strides necessary to put him alongside the programmer's chair. "Randy's scanning, sir," said the programmer. "Nothing yet." A fter two full minutes of deceleration, a small green light winked on the board. "Here it comes, Captain... Randy says alloy construction... alloy construction , Captain... no functioning power source detectable... alien artifact !" "Tell Randy to get the hell out of here! Full power and general alarm!" The captain grabbed at a hand rail, and another shock quaked through the ship. They had tried every means of remote communication at their disposal. There was not the slightest indication of awareness or acknowledgement from the alien craft. Even the nuclear flares failed to bring a response. Randy's scanning reports were consistent: "No significant emission of any type detectable... Course unaltered... Disposition unchanged." So the captain and a dozen volunteers boarded the space skiff, to fall in a long arc toward the alien. "If anything happens to us, or even the Solar Sea" reasoned the captain, "at least Randy's log-tapes will have been monitored at the base. And we'll have the portable TV units along. They'll know as much as we did." Final attempts at communication from the closely orbiting skiff failed to produce a reaction, and the pilot brought the small boat alongside the huge alien craft. The pilot remained at the controls as the rest of the group, led by the captain, suited-up and exited. After pounding on the outer wall of the otherwise silent hull for what seemed to the captain like a reasonable period of time, the expedition prepared an entranceway with the frank utilization of a small bomb. "At least they'll know we're here," explained the captain. "I hope we picked a good spot," volunteered one of the men. "Hope it isn't the ladies' powder room," cracked another crewman, floating at the rear of the group. "Leave your suits on at all times, stay close, and keep your TV units sweeping your immediate area," commanded the captain, as he ducked into the still aperture. The rest of the party followed quickly, the last man waving toward the cockpit of the drifting skiff. T he ship was huge, with rooms to match. The explorers wandered along for hours, never stopping for more than a few seconds, until they realized that they had covered it all. The cartographer, consulting his portable equipment and sketching as he went along, informed the captain of this soon after they had passed the point at which they had entered. The group halted for a conference. "All of these rooms are exceedingly large and open," suggested one of the crew, "and it would be difficult to stay concealed... unless they are very small." "Considering the size of the compartments and equipment we've seen, I would consider creatures smaller than ourselves unlikely aboard this craft," replied the captain, glancing quickly about. "I can only conclude, with very minor reservations, that we are the only living things aboard. This is, I very strongly suspect, a derelict." At the captain's order, they left for what the cartographer assured them was the center of the ship. It was decidedly the largest room aboard, and the captain felt that it should be the first area to be more carefully investigated. As they began a detailed search, one of the crewmen approached the captain. "Sir, perhaps no one was ever aboard. This may have been a sort of gigantic robot probe," he theorized. That theory was abandoned a moment later when several of the crew discovered the large plasticlike sheets. There were, they found, thousands of them in what looked like filing drawers along the expansive walls. They were quickly identified as very detailed charts on maps of entire solar systems, as well as individual stars and planets of all sizes. "Why this one resembles our own planetary system," indicated the captain, "and there's earth, I think." They marvelled at the thin plates, poking and waving their TV cameras at the intricate markings. "Let Randy have a good look," said the captain, "perhaps we can get a rough translation." "This must be their chart room," someone decided, and the others agreed. "They had a sense of direction," concluded the captain, as he prepared to return to his ship. I n his cabin near the bow of the Solar Sea y the captain sat on the edge of his bed, or "bunk," as he preferred to call it, and wrote meticulously into his diary, or "log", as he preferred to call it, of the extraordinary events of the past few hours. He paused to reconsider a particularly colorful phrase, when the sound of a signal bell impelled him to reach out for a switch on the night stand. "Captain here. What have you got?" "Computation, sir. Chief reporting." "Well, did Randy have any luck with a translation from those maps?" "We have a preliminary report, sir. And, Captain, Randy says they aren't maps. They're blueprints." IF IF  Novelette Steve Duke had fought on a thousand outlandish battlegrounds -- but never against weapons as strange as these J I T he ship, a converted Scout Tender, was crammed with supplies, equipment, and a draft of one hundred malassorted and sullen slave Techs -- mostly Gjiss, with a scattering of Sabrils, B'lant, and humans. None of them, except Steve Duke, had even an inkling of their destination. They'd made several null-hops and now, judging by the way the hull thrummed, were dropping through atmosphere. The viewscreens weren't on; this bunch didn't rate privileges. The PA crackled and spewed orders. "All slave Ratings except Ship's Personnel muster for disembarkation!" Steve picked up his duffelbag and went with the rest. They formed ranks before an airlock, with the subdued muttering which was all they dared. Six slave Gunners, heavy beamers ready, watched them disinterestedly. The ship hung for a moment, then touched down with a mild jar. A screen glowed and the face of the ship's commander -- one of the Overseer race -- appeared, wearing just the right combination of disdain and compassion. "Slaves, each one of you has failed Gree in some way. You deserve only the most degrading labor, or to be live targets in training; and to die without His blessing and without hope of ressurection. But as Gree is a merciful master, He is giving you a chance to redeem yourselves. "This planet is formidable, and there is something here of great importance. What you are to do here will be worthy of any warrior. Those of you who die will die as heroes, with full forgiveness. Those who live will be given tests, and may regain their former statuses. "You will disembark now, and meet your new Overseers." Or, as Steve translated inwardly, these slaves -- disgraced, denounced some of them brainwashed or even brainburned, simmering with resentment that cried for a target -- would be the advance skirmishers, entirely expendable. None of them (except him) really had much reason to live. T he night air was warm and dry. The Base was similar to many he'd seen -- a solid periphery of buildings, their outward walls forming a line of defense, with the landing field and other important functions inside -- but it differed in being eggshaped rather than circular. Outside the big end of it, curving in a protective arc, was a very strong, high wall of logs, braced in such a way that Steve guessed it must be double, with a rock or dirt fill between. Other sides of the Base were not this protected. He didn't understand what threat might come from one direction only. He moved as far as he dared from the landing-lights and looked up at the sky. Sentry globes moved a hundred feet above, but there were no stars. The sky must be completely overcast. An Overseer called, "Four ranks! Highest ratings in front!" Automatically, Steve stepped forward. Gunner, Third Grade, was the highest rank a slave could hold. He'd earned that legitimately once (though not, of course, under the false identity he wore now). They were counted again and marched toward the barracks. As they moved clear of the ship Steve suddenly saw a moon, small or distant, but bright, with clear markings. The sky was not overcast. He took his eyes from the moon lest an Overseer notice his interest. According to his scant information, they'd been headed somewhere near the center of the galaxy. The sky should be rich with stars. Before getting bunks, they had to file one at a time through an Inquisition Booth. This was the first big hurdle. He stepped in, suddenly perspiring. There was a pause -- longer than normal, he thought -- then the voice of all Booths, deep, paternal, with a hint of warning, said, "What are your name and number?" IF The old emotions stirred in Steve. He fought them down; to let them seize him would be fatal. He forced himself to say, "Dunnek. # # #." As the Booth fed that through its circuits, checking for any prior data, he concentrated hard on the words, "I'm in a Booth. I'm in a Booth." He fancied he could feel the stir in his brain, as the delicately implanted metal molecules shunted nerve currents, blocked off memory trunks, controlled body responses. The fear subsided but a sullen resentment grew. He strove to keep other thoughts away. T he Booth said, "We have not received data on you, Dunnek. Why are you in disgrace # " His voice was thick with the artificial resentment. "I failed to protect a shrine of Gree." There was another pause while the Booth's sensors probed at him. Then, "Where did this happen?" "Garlock One." That was where Steve's side had captured the real Dunnek. The Booth said, "We have data on Garlock One. But there is more in your heart than guilt. You had better tell, us what it is." He wiped his hands on his uniform. His next words might get him summarily liquidated. "The Overseers failed too. I fled when they fled. Yet I was punished and they were not." He sat, mentally cringing. But the Booth answered sooner than he expected. "You are wrong. Why do you say the Overseers were not punished?" "Well... they went freely, without anyone guarding them. They even kept their weapons." Now he did have a long wait. He knew that Overseers operated the Booths, aided by computers and memory banks. Would they consider him too rebellious to live? Or find some flaw in his story? Finally the Booth said. "You are a very impertinent slave. For this alone, you deserve the punishment you've received. Know, slave, that Gree himself dealt with the Overseers who failed him. Who are you, to question?" A pause. "Since you are in your present situation, you will not be punished further; but your impertinence will be noted. You had best think deeply about your sins." Incredibly, the exit opened. He walked out, shaking a little and slightly dizzy from the unnatural things that still flowed in his veins. But his superiors had been right. In this case, sullenness pleased the Overseers. H H ow much so, he discovered the next morning. They put him in charge of a troop of thirty-seven. They lifted him in an aircar to hover over the Base while they aimed a telescope toward some mountains to the east. These weren't isolated peaks; lower chains led off to either side, but these were mucti higher, and snow-capped. When he put his eye to the scope he saw a section of a slope below the snowline. The Overseer said, "Do you see that cliff-face in the center of the field?" The scope had shifted a bit. He located the cliff. "Yes, sir." He took his eye from the instrument and looked at the mountains. They must be sixty or seventy miles away, but the air was clear, and he finally saw the cliff naked-eye. It must be big, to be visible at all. Below it was a wide band of forest, almost black in the distance. He traced out a waterway that pointed more or less at the cliff. The Overseer said, "Seen enough?" "I think so, sir." "All right. You're to take your troop and find a way on foot to that cliff. For various reasons we can't show our technology  over or near those mountains. You'll have primitive weapons; iron, but below the gunpowder stage. You'll wear primitive clothes. For part of the way you'll have a radio transmitter, disguised as something else. Beam it only toward this Base. Our answers will come by relay from those lower mountains to the right, so they won't be beamed wrong either. When we can't reach you any more, you're to get reports to us as long as you can. After that you're to use your best judgment, but try to survive and bring back a final report. It .doesn't matter how many of your troop you lose. Do you understand?" After a moment, Steve said, "Yes, sir." The Overseer said, "You'll meet some odd things along the way. Be cautious, but observe them carefully and report. You'll have to live mostly off the land; we can't send flyers to supply you. Incidentally, you are one of four Sorties, and what you report may help others. Unless you have questions, that is all." T he sun was hot, but bearable. They wore or carried garments of leather and some animal wool coarsely woven. Their buskins were thick soled. They had bows and arrows and crude hand-axes, ropes, water-bags, rough blankets. There were flints for striking fire, salt for the meat they'd kill. The transmitter -- carried by a Communications Tech, Second Grade, named Vay -- was built into one of the bows. Steve was the only Third Grader, and there were only two other Gunners, both Seconds, and both of the race called Sabrils. Like all Gree's humanoids except humans and B'lant, they were better at executing orders than at thinking for themselves. Not that they were stupid; they just weren't leaders. As Sabrils went, Keerno and Hurogil were good troopers. Keerno was the taller, and instantly distinguishable from Hurogil because one cheek and one side of the jaw were flesh transplants, and much lighter than the blue-black of his skin elsewhere. Hurogil had a few scars of his own, and an uneven gait from some injury. Even he was over six feet, with narrow sloping shoulders and a slender, though wiry, build. Their eyes were wide and narrow, with yellow irises that made some people uncomfortable. Their mouths were thin-lipped and turned down at the IF corners. Their ears were pointed and hung back and down. They sweated like fury in the sun, and needed lots of water. Vay was the only other Second in the troop. All the others were Firsts (which meant they'd at least completed Hive-world training in arms, tactics and survival) and were all Gjiss, like Vay. They were among the more human-looking of Gree slaves, but they looked like squat, very hairy, very muscular humans. Their planet had high gravity so they were fine porters, though not fast afoot. They tended to be morose rather than sullen. All, of course, spoke B'lant and English in addition to their own languages. Those two were required. He took Keerno and three Gjiss for an advance guard. The rest came in a body, surrounding Vay. Steve put a ridge between the Sortie and Base as soon as he could, to test his communications. He went back and looked at Vay questioningly. The Gjiss said, "Ve got gondac, Gunner." Steve took the disguised transmitter. "Base, this is Sortie Four. Four One speaking. We do not have line-of sight. The ridge between us looks like sandstone. There are a few small holes in it that look like bullet-holes but could belong to insects. There are insects about. There's some very thin desert growth, like lichens. I've seen a few animals about the size of my hand, catching insects. They look like sixlegged starfish but seem to have internal skeletons. There are a few small birds or large insects whose wings move fast enough to hum. I'm starting up a wadi that has low bushes in it. Report ends. Four One." The answer came back, faint and squeaky. "Four One, give us a short carrier wave every half hour, even if you have no report. End. Base." T he wadi was from fifty to a hundred yards wide, sandy, twisting between low hills, with vertical banks up to ten or twelve feet in places. The plants were green enough to prove subsurface water. They were the height of a man, squat, with twisting branches and thick-set small round leaves. The small flying things fed on the leaves, and he took time to study one. It was odd. The oval bodies were the size of a man's thumb, with stubby, leathery wings set on each side. There seemed to be no head or tail -- each end of the body was a large facetted eye, with a short flap over it that might be an eye-shade or an auxiliary wing. There were no legs, but the wings were prehensile, and on the underside of the body were two orifices that served as suction cups and mouths. He hadn't seen any other birds. A couple of hours up the wadi they began to cross patches of grass, where pools probably lasted into the spring. Not long after that they saw their first animals grazing. Steve was with the advance guard again, and he was moving cautiously to the middle of the wadi to see around a turn. The animals saw him as he saw them. IF They were quadruped, thinbodied and long-legged, and with very long necks that were now held straight up in alarm. They had no horns, but the feet were clawed, not hoofed, and the teeth were big, if flat. He judged the animal weighed three hundred pounds. It had more hair than he expected to see in a desert. Several of the big males took a few steps forward. They didn't seem on the point of charging, but they weren't giving ground. He said quietly to the Sortie, who'd stopped when he had and were still out of the animals' sight, "Grazing animals, but big. Ready with arrows. Four of you climb out on that side and go fifty yards upstream. Hit one of these males that are facing me, without warning. One'll do it." Five minutes later, four arrows flashed in the sun. The chosen male bleated and leaped high. He came down running, but his legs collapsed and he went sprawling and kicking. The herd broke and galloped upwadi without any more delay, bleating softly. As they went clouds of the flying things rose from the bushes, circled, and settled back. The carcass seemed to be normal protein, so Steve chewed a bit of it, raw, while it was being butchered. The taste was reassuring. Something else wasn't, though: a swarm of the flying things circled and hovered, turning their big eyes at the Sortie. Now and then a few of them would take a bee-line up the wadi out of sight. The way they acted reminded Steve of mechanical fly-eyes. Later, he reported that to Base. "Ah," the reply came, in an Overseer's voice. "We had not seen that before. We have dissected the things, and they are organic, but the form is peculiar. You are observant, Gunner. I shall follow your progress with interest. By the way, I am your own Overseer." Steve acknowledged as simply as possible. The last thing  he wanted was close attention from an Overseer. T here were tracks of more animals, several kinds, but he saw only one new creature during the afternoon: a very slender, timid thing about eight inches high that looked as nearly canine as feline. It ate the starfish-things that ate insects. It hunted singly. He made camp in the middle of a wide spot, openly, with several fires; but put out sentries to lie quiet under the brush in case anything tried to sneak in. The Gjiss were in better spirits, eating huge chunks of the meat, which was good except that the brushwood fire gave it a faint taste of creosote. Keerno and Hurogil were their taciturn selves. Steve stretched out on his blanket under a bush to let his tired muscles relax, but something was tugging at the edge of his mind. He napped briefly, and took a turn on watch. Then, later, when all the fires but one had been allowed to die, he remembered. He looked around to make sure no one was too close, then reached casually and put the tips of three fingers behind his left ear. He felt for slight bumps and pressed them; the middle one first, then the lower, then the upper. He lay for a few minutes. A slight dizziness came, and a quickening of the pulse. Then it was as if a faint voice whispered to him: "Colonel Duke: by now you've passed the Booths and are ready to know. The operation you've been smuggled into is somewhere inside a cloud nebula that is very dense and has some peculiar properties. We have never been able to null into it. "Gree has heard rumors of a very ancient weapon depository there, guarded by unknown sciences. Your job is double: to see what is happening, and to send us a locator as soon as you can. You have this locator. It has been built into the small projector you carry, which shows human females dancing in the nude. In this case, your erotic tastes are useful. It will still project, and will appear to be nothing else barring very close examination, but it is also a pair of devices. When you are able, turn it on and off five times, quickly, then break it in two. One half will null to where we can find it and trace it back. Keep the other half. When we null a fleet in and begin the attack, step on it or otherwise crush it, and it will pinpoint you for us. "Good luck. We will replace the projector for you, with new pictures. "This implant in your brain will dissolve beyond trace within an hour. There are no other implants." Steve swore under his breath. The projector was in his personal dittybag at the Base. HI I t must have been near morning when a faint sound woke him. He twisted onto his belly, in position to get up fast, and listened. Something was coming down the wadi making swishing sounds in the brush. The small moon was still up, but k only seemed to make the wadi darker. He wondered if he ought to douse the fire. He heard others stirring and decided not to give an alarm yet. The thing was coming slowly and steadily, as nearly as he could judge, and in a straight line, making no effort to avoid the brush. It was near one side of the wadi, and, if he could judge, now about fifty yards up it. He heard the hum of small wings as the fly-eyes were disturbed from their roosts. Still no other sound. He wondered if the thing could be a very persistent small whirlwind. Then he heard one of his sentries on that side mutter something in Gjiss and move from his hiding spot He caught the word, "Gree." The thing, whatever it was, came on steadily. He was sure now it was no animal. He heaved himself to his feet. "Hurogil! Take charge here. Guards! Come with me!" He groped for one of the torches stacked ready; thrust it into the fire until it flared. He grabbed a hand-axe. The two Gjiss on fire-guard had torches now, and followed him. He held the torch high with one hand, and saw the sentry, feet planted wide, staring into the darkness. He was muttering again. IP Then Steve was within a few yards of him, but blocked by a thick clump of brush. "Stand aside!" he ordered the sentry, "Let's get a look at it!" The sentry ignored him. The bush he was facing shook, mildly, and something drifted out. It was barely visible in the torchlight, hardly bigger than a grape, black, a slightly flattened sphere, tumbling slowly as it drifted. It was at chest height and moving horizontally or nearly so. The sentry reached out to take the thing. Steve, suddenly guessing what would happen, shouted at him, but the hand was already closed around the object. The hand moved back. The Gjiss grunted in surprise, flexed his arm muscles, then gasped and jerked his hand away. Steve saw the object touch his chest. The sentry screamed and threw himself down. Steve saw the object drifting on, bloody now, in the same slow trajectory. He yelled, "Hurogil! Take care of this man," turned to see Hurogil start toward him, then himself turned to follow the strange missile. He could have followed it even without the three torches, by its progress through the brush. He caught up to it and followed as closely as the brush would allow. It was, he saw, aimed slightly downward, so it would hit the ground sooner or later. But before it did, the wadi turned, and it pushed into a bank. There was a puff of dust and a small hole where it went in. He could hear it grinding through the sandstone. Finally it stopped or got too far to hear. Steve listened a minute, then told his two Gjiss, "Go back and get Vay here, fast. Tell Hurogil to break camp and move down here." T he thing took some diggihg to find. It had penetrated . nearly twenty feet, and didn't show a scratch. The sentry who'd tried to stop it was dead, of bleeding, not poison. Steve reported to Base and was told to stand by. Meanwhile, he made a few experiments. Eventually the Overseer answered. "Tell me the details, Gunner." Steve described the events, then added, "It's as if the stuff had tremendous mass but very little susceptibility to gravity. By getting an axehead under it and lifting, you can eventually get it rising. It keeps rising unless you stop it. We almost lost it once. But if you get it hanging perfectly still, beside something so you can measure, it begins to fall very slowly after a while. If you hit it -- " The Overseer interrupted, "We've studied the objects, Gunner. What we want to know, among other things, is where they start from and how they are accelerated even to a low speed." Steve felt his face grow warm. "If I'd known about them I might have saved a man." The Overseer said casually, "Ho died for Gree, Gunner." Steve controlled himself. "Yes, sir. I suppose I can expect more of them?" "Fin sure you can. Sortie One reports a man dead, too. They had him on watch on top of a knoll, at night, which was a very foolish thing." H e got the dead Tech buried, and left the black pellet on the grave. It wasn't very practical to take it along. He wondered if, and how, he could take one with him, assuming he ever got away from here. His superiors would want to see it. As they advanced they met more of the things, sometimes coming down at sharper angles, but not much sharper. He was doing well, so far as casualties were concerned -- the other three Sorties reported a total of seven so far. Probably he was better protected, in the wadi. As it happened, his second casualty came when they had to leave the wadi to detour around the first marshy spot. It wasn't one of the black pellets. They'd been following the edge, and came to a small dry wash that joined the wadi. The bottom was covered with spiney six-inch grass. Steve and his advance group stopped at the edge before stepping down. Steve saw nothing in the grass but small insects. There were a few of the fly-eyes humming over it. Up the dry wash a mile or so, there was a herd of the grazing animals he'd, met before. He poised to step down, but before he did one of the Gjiss hopped down into the grass. The humanoid let out a peculiar sound, then screamed. He tried to jump, fell clumsily, screamed again. He squirmed as if he were stuck on a bed of nails. He raised his head and Steve saw droplets of blood all over one side. The Gjiss stared up at him for a moment, then fainted. Others ran forward. "Stand back!" Steve ordered. "Get some rope and a hand-axe up here!" He got the axe head wedge under the victim's belt, and they hauled him out by that. Grassblades stuck out all over him, and there were punctures where others had pulled free. He was obviously dying, probably of the punctures in his head. Steve took hold of one of the grassblades and pulled gently. It wouldn't come out. It wasn't rigid. He pulled harder, steadily, and eventually it came out slowly. When it did, it wanted to keep on going. The top of it did, at least; the rest trailed in the air. Blood ran down it and formed a drop, but didn't fall off. Steve let it go. He jabbed the flat of the axe down at the grass and it was like hitting concrete. He noticed now that while some of the grassblades bent in the breeze, others were perfectly still. He pulled one of those out -- slowly -- and got it suspended in the air before him. He gave a sudden jerk and the grass came away, leaving a small black nodule hanging in the air. He pushed at it with the axehead so it would drift to the ground, then walked to the dead Gjiss and looked at the soles of his buskins. They were punctured in dozens of spots, and grass was wedged in some of the holes. IF When he reported, the Overseer listened carefully and complimented him. Then he said, "Gunner, this will be our last transmission to you; you're getting too close to the mountains. You are to keep sending reports direct until you're near the forest. You must leave the transmitter with some Techs, and send reports back to them to transmit. Do you understand?" "Yes, sir." Steve tried not to sound ironic. "Fine, then. Good luck, Gunner." Steve handed Vay the transmitter and started toward a small knoll to look around. He thought he'd stay near here for a few days, studying things, before he went on. IV H e learned that not all of the spiney grass was deadly. When it was first sprouting, it didn't have the black nodules in it. While the nodules grew and ripened (if that was the right word) the grazing animals, and other animals, knew to avoid it. Later, it got rid of the nodules, and that process was interesting. When the grass began to turn brown, each stalk developed a gas pressure, swelling to three times its diameter. Gradually, the nodule yielded. It had only an inch to go to the top of the stalk, but when it got there it was rising two or three feet a minute. It kept rising. Some patches sent up a real hail of .the things. He could imagine what it would be like for a bird -- or an aircar -- to fly into it. The latter, though, if it had a good hull and moved very slowly, should survive. He watched the large animals grazing in a ripe patch that had lost its nodules. They moved their feet very slowly and carefully, as if there might be a few nodules left. A man could do the same thing, he reflected, if he had the right kind of shoes. One night as he lay awake it occurred to him that the nodules might have something to do with the unnatural cloud nebula. That, of course, was what hid the stars here, and made it so difficult to null in. Why wasn't this sun at least a little haloed? Maybe its radiant pressure had cleared a sphere around it and its planets. If so, Gree had somehow learned the coordinates to null in. He wondered about the nodules that rose from the grass. If they kept going beyond the atmosphere, they'd make it impossible to null in. And if they didn't, they must come down again. He tried not to imagine one of them drifting down, gently as a tiny black snowflake -- and gently sinking through his head. Maybe, he told himself, the stuff gradually sublimed or disintegrated. But if you could work the stuff -- and get a strong gun-barrel and a real driving charge behind it -- what a bullet it would make! T he wadi became a creek in the foothills, and two days up that was the edge of the forest. Steve found a campsite behind a hill, established Vay there, and led the first patrol out. By the time they reached the trees, they'd seen two more of the grape-sized black pellets The dominant kind of tree wasn't over a hundred feet tall, but it spread sideways half again that. Its bark was in overlapping scales, each six inches in diameter, deep brown. Scales lay about as if they shed individually. The base of the trunk was a system ot big splayed-out roots, with grass and underbrush between them. At thirty feet or so from the ground, the trunk split into a dozen or more big limbs, some of them horizontal. From these, twigs sprayed out, supporting needlelike foliage. Here and there, vines hung to the ground. The trees didn't crowd each other, so the trunks were widely spaced, but undergrowth filled most of the space. There were game trails, and a variety of tracks. He heard birdcalls deeper in the forest. Not far from him, one of the frail quadrupeds he'd seen catching the starfishthings trotted into sight, saw him, and went up a treetrunk. More feline than canine, then. There were a few of the fly-eyes, into everything as always. A treetrunk nearby had a hole through it, quite fresh, as if a long auger had come through. He knew what had done that. The scales on both sides were pierced neatly. He found other holes, some nearly grown shut. Evidently the trees were used to being pierced. He wasn't inclined to take the patrol in at once, so he took them up the higher of the two hills bracketting the creek they'd come up, until he found a tree at the edge of the forest where he could spend a few hours now and then, just watching. Then he turned back to camp. The hill muffled the forest sounds that night, but there were animal calls, and once something screamed and thrashed about heavily. He didn't like the prospect of penetrating this forest with only primitive weapons. He was sure, though, there'd be no way around it. I t was two days before he actually saw the pellet thrower at work. He'd spotted a source; two pellets had come from a thicket within sight of his tree. All he saw was a gentle motion, then the pellets drifted out, horizontally, diverging just a few degrees. Then, late in the afternoon, one of the small frail quadrupeds came sneaking by the thicket, pausing to raise its big ears, turn its head, and listen. It went on out of sight. A minute later another animal appeared, evidently trailing the other. This seemed to be of a related species, but it was three times the height and anything but frail. It stopped beside a thicket to listen and sniff the ground, then started across the small natural clearing. Suddenly there was motion all around it. Things like flexible broom-handles came swinging from the brush in an odd slow motion, blocking the several ways out of the spot. They reached straightness and continued to bend the opposite way, IF like springs very heavily weighted. Without seeing, Steve guessed there'd be other bars -- more slender, maybe -- in the brush, to form a complete fence. The beast, after a second's crouch, whirled, saw that it was surrounded, and hurled itself at what looked like the weakest spot. It squalled and bounced back. It bit at itself once, then leaped to bat with its paws at the broomsticks, which were still flexing slowly. Then it sprang back to the center of its prison and crouched, panting. Steve saw blood drip. At half a dozen points around the prison, things moved slowly. Steve got a good look at one. It was like a three-foot length of heavy plank grown over with bark. It too flexed Uke a spring, but only moved through a very short arc, staying nearly vertical. As it passed its deadpoint and began to slow, black pellets drifted from it. More came from the other directions, crisscrossing. The beast whirled, seeking a way out, then sprang in the direction it had come. It screamed as it hit the first pellets; contorted in mid-air, fell and hit the ground writhing. There were pellets at low level too. It bit at itself mindlessly, then collapsed and lay shuddering a moment before it went limp. Steve saw pellets emerge from it and sail away or plow leisurely into the ground, driving before them fur and blood and bits of bone. Now a thing like a tentacle snaked from somewhere. It poised above the carcass, nosed down delicately, and forced its point in. A tremor, as if of ecstasy, ran along it. Steve pushed down his revulsion and watched. The thing probed about inside the animal, apparently consuming bone and all, for the carcass gradually shrank like an emptying bag. At sundown he left The cage was still in place -- to keep out marauders, perhaps -- and the tentacle was still feeding. He spent most of the night planning. They'd have to locate a number of the things for study. That could be done, maybe, with long slender poles. If a pole hit a slender stalk that didn't move, they had something. Too, knowing what to look for, they could spot the planklike catapults. And they could capture some of the grazing animals alive; force them into the traps and study the things. He didn't like that idea much, but it was better than sacrificing humanoids through ignorance. V A fter two weeks he had enough data to compose a report. He included: "The shoots that form the cage can move enough in two seconds to stop a humanoid. The cage is only thirty feet in diameter at most; so one man might get free if he moved fast. But a group of men would get in each others' way. We'll have to travel in groups because of large carnivores. "It's possible to sate the things. After feeding, a plant is inert for at least twelve days; we haven't had time to check longer. Ill "They apparently don't need animal protein to survive individually, but it's connected with reproduction. After feeding, a plant produces seeds the size of a man's fist, with small black pellets in them for carrying power when they're catapulted. If a seed hits a tree, it falls to the ground while the pellet keeps going. "This is intelligently planned. Making the meat-eating part of reproduction prevents the plants evolving away from it. "I think we can clear a way through by driving animals ahead of us, and otherwise locating the plants. I'm leaving Vay and eight Techs here with the transmitter. Probably we'll be able to relay a few reports back once we're through. Later, on higher ground, we'll build campfires where you can see them with a telescope so you'll at least know where we are. No doubt there'll be other defenses, and they'll probably be more subtle. "Report ends. Four One." E ighteen days later, he stood at the upper edge of the forest. Within it they'd buried Keerno and two Gjiss. Two more Gjiss had been dragged away by carnivores. A group was headed back through with a report for Vay to send, and escorting various wounded. Steve, Hurogil, and the thirteen Gjiss with them all had cuts or bad bruises, but none incapacitating. Now they faced something like ten miles of mild slopes covered with the spiney grass. In places, the black hail floated up from it. The plan he had was simple. ? V# They had a section of tree-trunk, over a yard in diameter, about five feet long, peeled and made as cylindrical as possible. There were holes for spokes to give more leverage, and wedges to jam behind it if it started to roll back. They were going to roll it through the grass, slowly, to clear a path. Also, each of them had oval slabs of thick wood to wear like snowshoes, in case the roller left a few nodules hanging. Steve had tested those before thinking of the roller, but the grass was irregular enough to make a man's balance insecure. Nobody wanted to fall. In the first few hours they collected new cuts, until they learned what to watch for. After that, it was just hard tedious work. Food was no problem -- the swath stayed open behind them, so they could walk back and hu at the edge of the forest. They pushed and pried at the roller for five days. Toward the end it was very hard to move because the circumference was impregnated with nodules. But on the sixth day they were clear of the grass, with not more than five miles of rocky ground between them and the cliff. From here, the cliff-face looked very even and almost vertical. Steve said, "An hour's rest. Then we'll try to make it before night." It turned out harder than that. There were stretches of jumbled rock, and crevices. They finally camped in one of those, a mile from the cliff. For the sake of morale, Steve risked a fire. He was pretty sure that if anything intelligent IF lurked above, it was aware of them by now; anyway, as tired and sore as he was, he didn't like the prospect of a cold night. A t daylight he bundled himself as warmly as practical and went scouting with two Gjiss. Looking back the way they'd come through the grass, the forest seemed ludicrously close. He couldn't see beyond the forest, because a mist hung over it. He turned, and was looking at the cliff when he heard humanoid voices somewhere to his right. He gestured a warning to the Gjiss, and pointed to the gap between two large rocks. He led the way carefully to where the voices sounded near, then motioned the two to wait, bows ready, while he peered into the open. There were a B'lant and two Gjiss with their backs to him, looking at the cliff. To their right, in cover similar to his own, were several more Gjiss. Obviously they were supposed to be guarding the trio's backs, but they hadn't seen Steve yet. They looked cold and miserable. The B'lant was lightly dressed, his thick gray skin adequate for colder weather than this. He had bandages around his left biceps and left calf. He and the Gjiss were carrying bows, waterbags, and not much else. Steve, unable to resist grinning, stepped into the open and said in his perfect B'lant, "I could have mowed you down with one sweep of a laser. Which Sortie are you?" They spun, the B'lant reaching for a weapon that wasn't there. One glimpse of his blunt-featured, highcheekboned face, and Steve's own hand flashed uselessly to his waist A block of ice seemed suddenly to form in his stomach. But the B'lant's eyes showed no recognition. They were a little offfocus, dull, vaguely troubled. Hii voice was slower than Steve remembered it, and slurred. "We are Sortie Two. My name is... Fazzool. Do you have any food? I need none yet, but my Gjiss... his words faded away. Steve let out his breath. Slowly, his shock turned to anger. Brainburned! They'd brainburned Fazzool; who -- Newly shocked, Steve fought for self control. It hadn't been he -- not Steve Duke -- who'd been comrade to Fazzool. If that other called Jen had lived in Steve's skull, shared the same body, it hadn't been Steve's choice. Steve should be hoping the brainburning was thorough. If it weren't -- if Fazzool could remember, ever -- he'd remember that a comrade called Jen had betrayed Gree; had twice tried to kill Fazzool, twice left him for dead. He controlled his face. "We've got meat." It occurred to him he'd better have Fazzool where he could watch him. "We're Sortie Four. My name's Dunnek. Shall we join forces? There's nothing in the orders against it." Fazzool was looking at him with puzzlement. Finally he said, "Yes. Nothing... in the orders." T wo hours later, as they started toward the cliff, Fazzool's mind was clearer. Steve kept out of his line of vision as much as he could. Before they reached the cliff, Steve became aware of a slight veiling before it. He stopped walking. Fazzool stopped too, turned and gave him a look. "I zink," he said in English, "zat will be more of ze black stuff." Steve nodded, stalling for time. One of them ought to reconnoiter, while the other stayed in command; but he didn't want to leave Fazzool in that position. He was relieved when the B'lant said, "Wiz my zick skin, it is best I go first." An hour later the B'lant waved him forward. Steve left Hurogil with most of the Gjiss. When he reached Fazzool, the B'lant was standing at the edge of a deep chasm with water in it. The chasm was too straight, running out of sight in either direction, to be natural. It was possibly a quarter mile across, and the walls weren't far from vertical, except where rock had fallen away. The water was several hundred feet below, and looked deep. From a strip of it, about a third of the width, along the middle, rose the faint veiling. Steve didn't doubt it was more of the black stuff, though he was too far to see individual particles. They might be dust, or half an inch in diameter. Fazzool said, "What do you zink is at ze bottom?" Steve shrugged. "Water-weeds, maybe, producing nodules like the grass. Though I don't know whether the damned stuff floats or not." He pondered, and realized he didn't know much about the actual mechanism of buoyancy. He looked up at the cliff. It was continuous with the chasm wall; merely a mountain that had been sliced through. He found he wanted very much to know what was beyond. He doubted there'd be any end to the chasm. "A circular moat," he said half-absently, "around a stronghold." He faced the B'lant. "Our orders say to go to the cliff. We're close; but maybe we should actually cross this thing, if it's try?" Fazzooi's eyes looked clear now. zing zat you and I, Jen -- " He gasped, and his face contorted with agony. Brainstorming guarded proscribed memories brutally. He stood panting for a minute, then recovered enough to say, "Now why did I... call you zat?" His eyes were dull. S teve struggled with his own face. Finally he shrugged. "My name's Dunnek." So the burning wasn't thorough enough. He found himself trembling a little. It seemed a terrible injustice that he should have to try a third time to kill Fazzool. And it would be an even worse injustice if he succeeded. He controlled his voice and said, "Maybe a raft could cross, if it were thick enough and we could get it down to water level." Fazzool was obviously struggling to think. "How did you... get zrough ze grass?" IF Vuie" Steve told him. Fazzool pondered, and finally nodded. "Zat lias ze advantage zat you can go back to hunt. Zat is why you had meat... And we can get lumber. But my way has more to do wiz zis moat here. I chopped some big zick planks, and we just laid zem gently on ze grass and kept leap-frogging zem. I zink if we make ze right kind of raft, zis black stu!' will not come zrough, but will just push it up a little." Steve frowned over that. "Maybe. But still, how do we get it down to the water? And how'd we get up the other -- " He broke off, startled. "Why, of course! We put some of the stuff under the raft, and drift across up herel" VI T hey needed little extra lumber, with the planks Fazzool had and with Steve's roller. After a little discussion, they realized they couldn't bind the raft together with ropes, because the rising particles might cut them; so it had to be done with pegs, which was tedious. Gathering the black material was simple. If you just dropped a plank on top of the grass, with the right force, the nodules penetrated. Then, very slowly, you could pull it away and force it down somewhere else. As a plank became impregnated, it got hard to move, and to stop once it was moving, but that was just a matter of muscle and patience. The Gjiss were happy to be supplying that, with plenty of meat and animal skins for warmth. The finished raft was over two feet thick (with six inches of virgin, or at least unimpregnated, wood on top), about twelve feet long, eight feet wide. The width, Steve admitted to himself, was a concession to preconceived ideas of stability. A few inches in from the edge, a handrail ran all around, a foot above the deck. It began to look like something. A launching-course was ready: a stretch of rock slanting up gently to the lip of the chasm, smoothed and filled, to as perfect a plane as possible. The rollers were ready too; the hardest, straightest tree-limbs available. It took a day and part of a night to get the raft into position, with rollers under it and stakes behind it to keep it from rolling back, before morning. Steve knew he was laying up trouble (if he ever got back to Base) by going alone with Fazzool. But Fazzool wasn't protesting, and everyone else here was outranked. They seated themselves, Fazzool in front, and made sure the things they were taking were secure. The launching crew threw their weight against the raft, grunting with effort. Nothing happened at first, of course. They continued to strain, cursing in Gjiss. Fazzool chuckled. A roller creaked. I n twenty minutes Steve thought he could feel motion. An hour more the Gjiss strained, muscles bulging, new shifts taking over periodically. The rollers were definitely turning now. Hurogil put a new IF one at the front. It was two hours more before they neared the edge of the chasm, moving perhaps twenty feet a minute. A roller at the front dropped free, into a rack put there to catch it. Another plunked on top of it. Steve had to control his instincts now, as the nose of the raft poked out over the abyss. Fazzool turned to grin at him. The end of the raft parted from the last roller and now they would have to jump if they changed their minds. Then it was too far for that. Steve looked over the edge at the dark water. It was many minutes before he could really convince himself they weren't going to fall. He thought of 'magic carpets'. He would almost rather have depended upon magic than upon this. As they neared the middle, he could see that the rising pellets were the size of peas, but fewer than he'd expected. They rose very slowly. He felt the first jar as one hit the raft. It was mild, but that the raft transmitted the jar at all was disturbing. They came steadily after that. There was a splintering sound; the first audible one. The front end of the raft began to tilt upward, very slowly. That went on even after the rear of the raft was in the curtain too; and would until they emerged. He felt his weight shift backward, and felt with his foot for the rail there. A hatchet slid, startling him, but it was tied on. The tilt was at least fifteen degrees now; they'd started with less than five. He saw Fazzool's left foot feel about, find the tied hatchet and brace against it. The B'lant was clinging to the front rail, too. Steve grew really concerned. They were still in the curtain and the tilt was thirty degrees or more. He tried not to think what it would be like if they tilted to vertical and beyond. B ut then they nosed out of the curtain, and soon he could feel the tilt reverse. The last few thus sounded at his end of the raft, then they were clear. But there was another worry -- they'd gained considerable upward drift, and were going to clear the opposite side by two hundred feet or more. The cliff, ahead and to their right, seemed to sink slowly, as it approached. They passed the face and were still rising faster than the land beneath them. It was too far to jump, even from the end of their ropes if they tossed them over. For all he knew, they'd rise until the air was too thin to breathe. Already, it was chill as the sun sank lower behind them. Night came on. He moved up beside Fazzool and they tried to see the ground ahead. The small moon rose, but wasn't much help. But the raft was heavy; and even with the added pellets imbedded in it by the curtain, it eventually began to sink. Their nose was tilted slightly downward now. They tried to guess whether they'd reach the snowline. They fell short of it. They stepped off the raft just before it touched, their arms burdened with what they could hold. The raft bumped gently, then proceeded to grind itself deliberately into kindling. Steve stepped back from the flying splinters. A few logs off the top broke free and skidded away, but the rest thrust on into the growing pile. After that was over, he could still hear the black stuff pushing deeper into the rock. FazzooPs voice was amused in the dark. "Ziss will make a fine bonfire. Shall we light it now?" Steve said, "It's a temptation. But let's get away from here instead, before something comes to investigate." They lugged what they'd salvaged back downslope and found a passably sheltered place to spend what was left of the night. Steve hoped Hurogil's further experiments, after watching the crossing, would show some inspiration. It hadn't occurred to anybody that the raft would be a total loss so far as returning was concerned. T he morning sunlight was dazzling on the snowy peaks, which looked only four or five miles away. The two climbed the nearest prominence to look around. The chasm, and the forest beyond it, were in clear sight. He wondered whether they should hike back to the cliff and signal Hurogil at once, or do a little exploring first. Before he mentioned that to Fazzool, he saw six or seven of the fly-eyes going over, headed east. He pointed. "I've already reported they come from this direction. Pm for following right now." Fazzool agreed. Among the things they'd brought were two pairs of the foot-slabs, which now turned out to be usable, but just barely, as snow-shoes. Certainly, they couldn't do much hiking on them. They trudged up the first snowcovered ridge, the top of which temporarily hid the peaks beyond. Steve kept watching Fazzool unobtrusively. Soon, he must decide what to do. He couldn't wait; they -- or he -- would have to get back and show himself to Hurogil, or the Sabril might decide they'd been killed, and not wait for them. He decided to wait until they turned back. They crossed the top of the ridge and he stopped, staring down and to his right, then went prone on the snow. Fazzool wriggled forward beside him. It was too circular a basin to be natural; and the bottom was too level. The warmth that kept it green must be artificial too. It was perhaps two miles across, and a thousand feet deep. The slopes were covered with snow to about two-thirds the way down. Below that, bare rock showed some erosion. There was a mound in the center, and that was eroded too. There seemed to be only one kind of shrubs, green and fairly dense, but too irregular for recent cultivation. There was healthy-looking grass, not the spiney kind, he thought. Fazzool said, "Nobody home for a long time, I zink. I also zink it could be a trap." "Maybe," Steve said. "But I'll bet this is where the fly-eyes come. And I'll bet there's a ring of these places around the peaks, if the others haven't stopped working. Anyway, IF it would be a hard climb back out again." He was thinking something else. A blow on the head, and let the body slide down... No; too conspicuous here; Gree might have flyers over before long. Some crevice on the way back. H e squirmed back from the edge and automatically looked around before getting up. He saw something against one of the white peaks. Dots; in a line, seeming to rise from the mountainside. He grunted a warning to Fazzool, and let his mind race over the way behind them. No cover near enough. He watched the dots begin to scatter in all directions, including this. It would have to be the basin, and fast. He got some bad bumps sliding down, and again envied Fazzool his tough hide. They got to the first bushes and he looked back. The sun, at its present angle, didn't make their trail too conspicuous. They separated until they could just keep track of each other, and crawled under bushes. Minutes passed. Steve got out some cooked meat and chewed on it; swigged water. They'd have to stay here until dark, at least, if they weren't discovered before. While he had the chance, he noticed the fly-eyes in the shrubs around him. They had some kind of symbiosis with the plants, as he'd begun to guess. There were immature ones attached to (maybe growing out of) twigs, matured ones leaving and others coming to attach themselves. In the grass were dead ones, with something like ants working on them. Whoever had set this up had been thorough. They reproduced here -- that kept them coming back -- and they even died here, to provide fertilizer. He was sure they brought some kind of visual impressions, whether anyone ever read them any more or not. There was no telling how long the thing had been selfperpetuating. Mechanical, weapons could rust or wear out, or be ruined by earthquakes, or lose their charges. An ecology like this might go on doing its job for eons. He was pretty sure it wasn't intended for a system of defense -- what defense couldn't be breached? -- but for an alarm. The chances were that the objects rising from the mountain meant the alarm had been heard. But they still didn't necessarily know anyone had crossed the moat. He wasn't surprised, though, when a number of the objects ringed the basin and descended into it. They were a little bigger than Gree sentry globes. He lay perfectly still, but they set up a search pattern and nosed him out quickly. One hovered and incinerated a small circle of ground a few feet from him. There was no use pretending he didn't get the message. He crawled out and stood up, feeling more disgust than anything else. He'd just gotten too used to his luck, and stretched it too far. Interrogation was the least he could expect; vivisection the worst. Fortunately, he could tell all he knew about Gree and enjoy it. They let the globes herd them toward the mound in the center. When they were near it and enringed by the globes, dirt broke upward from the top of the mound and a humanoid figure appeared, obviously supported and protected by some kind of a field. Steve gasped and had to fight panic and the old feel of guilt; the residue of old conditioning. Fazzool gave a choked cry and dropped to his knees, covering his face. The figure was that of Gree. H e was able to put down the old conditioning and look at the humanoid. He still had plenty to worry about. The Gree figure he'd seen -- once -- had been a fraud; a semi-living body in which a non-organic entity disguised itself. That was designed to produce love and awe in slaves. His mind stumbled over various possibilities. Had this whole thing been a fraud, to dig out traitors or spies? But this humanoid was studying him with curiosity rather than anger or triumph. And he wasn't gotten up like Gree. He wore a simple overall garment, without the Gree insignia of four verticals and a horizontal to represent a hand. None of the precious-metal cloth, the whiterthan-white scarf at the throat. The beard was more practicably trimmed. The hair was the same; curly, black with a few white strands; but the two six-inch blunt ended horns that rose from it were not inlaid with gems. A sudden thought struck him. Maybe this was the Old Race! Maybe Gree had simply adopted the form, for its obvious impressiveness. It was impressive. Fazzool was huddled, shaking, muttering thickly, "Gree lives! Gree lives  # Steve knew the agony. A second figure, much like the first, rose from the mound. Steve looked for a minute, and an explosive laugh burst from him. He reached out and roughly pulled Fazzool's head up. "Look, old comrade! It'll hurt, but look!" Fazzool resisted, but finally opened his eyes. He tensed and made a move as if to get up, but knelt there, trembling. "Two? Two? I -- I'm insane! I ought to be -- " A spasm took him. When it abated, he got slowly to his feet and faced Steve. He looked murderous. "So. Yes; I remember." He moved suddenly toward Steve, knife flashing. Steve hurled himself aside. But another spasm seized the B'lant and he collapsed, moaning. Globes movhe collapsed, moaning. The two figures on the mound were watching with puzzled looks. The voice of one came to him faintly, "They thought we were gods. But what happened?" I t took a moment to register with Steve that he understood the words. He stood a moment, completely bewildered. That language -- allowing for difference in vocal equipment -- that language, he knew as well as B'lant or English. Excitement surged through him. He took a step forward, remembered the IF globes, and stopped. He raised his voice. "We're not primitives! I don't serve Gree. I'm here as a spy for the Birds of Effogus!" They looked as astounded as he must have a moment before. The one who'd spoke gestured, and the globes urged Steve forward. "The Birds of Effogus? What is Gree?" "An empire," Steve said, "trying to enslave the whole galaxy. The rulers are from outside. They're non-organic. The Birds of Effogus are resisting. Most of my race is enslaved, but the Birds rescued my own ancestors, and I fight with them. And -- " The spokesman interrupted. "The Birds are fighting? They've -- have they taken up science again? Military science?" "Why... yes." The spokesman sighed. "I'm sorry to hear their philosophy has bumped into the facts of nature. Though my branch of the race predicted it." Steve said, "I'm afraid I don't understand." The humanoid looked at him for a moment. "Don t you know the name of this planet and the star it circles?" "No." The humanoid said, "This was Effogus." S teve was much annoyed that he got so little chance to talk to his custodians. They lent him tapes to keep himself occupied, and fed him well, but the waiting was almost unbearable. Finally they took him to see the spokesman again, in an office one wall of which was an image of the galaxy, seen from outside. It made him nervous. The humanoid noticed. and smiled. "We'll deliver you home. Your friend had better go separately, by the way. He's well and we've straightened him out, but it'll take time for him to forgive you." ' Steve said uncomfortably, "Yes. I, er, had to do it." "We understand." There was a silence which Steve couldn't stand long. "Well... will you be helping us against Gree?" The other shook his head. "I'm afraid not. We're no logger of your galaxy, and there are considerations I can't discuss. We can't even give you weapons." Steve scowled, but could hardly argue. "At least, I hope you won't let Gree have Effogus!" "We won't let Gree have it, or take anything useful away with him, or find it again. There's not much there in the way of weapons. It's a portal and a warning system; also a decoy. We do keep some watch on your galaxy." He stood up. "I'm afraid we'll have to say good-by now; your transportation is waiting." He smiled, a little mischievously. "I have been authorized to give you one thing. If the Birds have really given up their Dionysian dreams, they'll learn things from it that will have military uses." He extended a small package. "Well... I don't know what to say, except thanks. What is it?" "Certainly. It's grass seed. You're acquainted with this particular kind IF  Serial Across the universe the great cloucs of galaxies trembled -- echoing the strife that raged between two menl T he revolution on the planet Ray-See-Nee was over and Richard Seaton, disguised under the identity of Ky-El Mokak, was ready to take the one tactical move for which all the effort and struggle on the planet had been only the preliminaries. But first he needed to know what had happened to his shipmates and friends; he had been busy enough fighting his own fights and taking his own prisoners to have temporarily lost sight of them. Wherefore, in Ray-See-Nee's pal? atial Capitol Building, in the Room of State -- which, except for the absence of an actual throne, was in effect a throne-room -- Seaton turned his prisoner over to a guard and rounded up his own crew, so The deadliest enemies fh the universe are Richard Seaton and Marc C. DuQuesne... but they have patched together their feud in order to join forces against strange enemies from another galaxy. Seaton enters the partnership with open eyes. He knows that Blackie DuQuesne is his enemy. But he also knows that, next to Seaton himself, DuQuesne is the ablest human being alive-nd his brains and fighting fury will be needed. DuQuesne, on the other hand, had lost to Seaton too many times to risk a move against him now -- until he has made sure of having every advantage he can get. It is not morality that keeps him from an attempt to stab Seaton in the back. It is pure prudence. But when he meets the race called the Jelmi, and learns from them the secret of the "gizmo" -- the fourth-dimensional translator which permits him to strike anywhere in the universe without warning -- he decides that the advantages are with him. Six hired gunmen are dispatched through the eerie realm of the fourth dimension into Seaton's spaceship, the Skylark , with orders to gun down Seaton and his five associates. They fail; but in failing they warn Seaton that DuQuesne has pulled a doublecross. Now Seaton's enemies are multiplied. Not only the strange winged-lizard-like creatures called the Llurdi, not only the beings whose life goes on in an atmosphere of pure halogenous gases, the Chlorans -- but DuQuesne, more powerful than ever -- and more determined. For DuQuesne possesses every secret of weapon and strategy known to Seaton himself -- and he is coldly determined to use them all, to win a universe for his empire! that they could look each other over and compare notes. Sitar, limping badly but with fur coat still glossily immaculate, proudly displayed a left leg bandaged from the knee all the way up. "A slash from here, clear down to there." The Osnomian princess ran a fore-finger along a line six or seven inches long. "And a bullet right through there. That was the gaudiest fight I was ever in in my whole life!" Diinark, whose right arm was in a sling, spoke up. "She got that slash saving my life. I'd just taken this one through the shoulder -- " he pointed -- "and was paralyzed for a second. So she kicked her leg up in the way -- while she was flipping a gun around to blow this guy apart, you know -- so his knife went into her leg instead of my neck." "Yes, but go on and tell them about how many times you -- " Sitar began. "Sh-h-h-h,' Dunark said, and she subsided. "Maybe some day we'll write a book. How about you, Mart? I notice you've been standing up all the time." 'Til be standing up or lying on my face for a while, I guess." "But that wouldn't account for the cane," Seaton objected. "Come clean, guy." "One through the hip -- thigh, rather, low down -- no bones brok en. Shiro, who had a broken arm, would not talk at first, but they finally got the story out of him. His last opponent had been just too big and too strong and too well trained to be easy meat, but Shiro had finally got him with a leg-lock around the neck. "But how about you, Dick?" Shiro asked. "Whoever wrapped you up must get hospital supplies at wholesale." Seaton grinned. "She had only one patient." He told his own story, then went on, "Since we can all walk, let's go over and see what thev're finding out." Ree-Toe Prenk had said that he wanted all thirty-one of the department heads taken alive if possible; but he had known that it would not be possible. He was surprised and highlv pleased, in fact, that only six of the Hish Exalteds had been killed or had taken their own lives. There is no need to go into the details of that questioning. Seaton took no part in any of it; nor did any of his group. He did not offer to help and Prenk did not ask him. Nor is it necessary to describe the operation outside the palace. The rebels had learned much from their previous failure, and they now had all the arms, ammunition and supplies they needed. Thus, before sunset that day, every known quisling had been shot and every suspect was under surveillance. Premier ReeToe Prenk sat firmly in the Capitol City's saddle; and whoever controlled that city always controlled the world. H ours before control was assured, however, Prenk called Seaton. "About the daily report to Chloran headquarters that is due in half an hour," the new Premier said. "I am wondering if you have any ideas. Our ordinary reports are not dangerous to make, since they are made to underlings whose only interest in the human race is to encode and file our reports properly. But, since their automatic instruments have recorded much of this change of government, it will have to be reported in detail. And a Great One, or even a Greater Great One, may become interested, in which case the reporter's mind may be searched." Prenk looked thoughtful, then shook his head. "There's no use trying to gloss it over. In an event like this the Greatest Great One himself will very probably become interested and the reporter will die on the spot. In any case, even with an ordinary Great One, his mind will be shattered for life." IF "I see," Seaton said. "I didn't think of it, but I'm not surprised. We've tangled with Chlorans before. But cheer up; I've got news for you. I locked eyes with their Supreme Great One... "You didn't!" Prenk broke in, in amazement. "You actually did?" "I actually did, and I knocked him -- it? -- loose from his teeth." Regretfully Seaton added, "But we can't make a battle out of this." He scowled in concentration for a minute, then went on, "Okay, there's more than one way to stuff a goose. I'll make the report. Let's go." TTherefore, twenty-five minutes   later, Seaton sat at an ultracommunicator panel in Communications, ready to flip a switch. The reporter whose shift it was stood off to one side, out of the cone of vision of the screen. Crane sat -- gingerly, sidewise, and on a soft pillow -- well within the cone of visibility of the screen, at what looked like an ordinary communications panel, but was in fact a battery of all the analytical instruments known to the science of Norlamin. "But, Your Exalted," said the highly nervous reporter. "I'm very glad indeed, that you're doing this instead of me, but won't they notice that it isn't me? And probably do something about it?" "I'm sure they won't." Seaton had already considered the point. "I doubt very much, in view of their contempt for other races, if they ever bother to differentiate between any one human being and any other one. Like us and beetles." The reporter breathed relief. "They probably don't, sir, at that They don't seem to pay any attention to us as individuals." Seaton braced himself and, exactly on the tick of time, flipped the switch. Knowing that the amoeboidf could assume any physical form they pleased and a matter of course assumed the form most suitable for the job, he was not surprised to see that the filing clerk looked like am overgrown centipede with a hundred or so long, flexible tentacles ending in three-fingered "hands" -- a dozen or so of which were manipulating the gadgetry of a weirdly complex instrument-panel. He was somewhat surprised, however, in spite of what he had been told, that the thing did not develop an eye and look at him; did not even direct a thought at him. Instead: "I am ready, slave," a deep bass voice rolled from the speaker, in the language of Prenk's planet RaySee-Nee. "Start the tape." Seaton pressed a button; the tape began to travel through the sender. For perhaps five minutes nothing happened. Then the sender stopped and a deeper, heavier voice came from the speaker: a voice directed at the filing clerk, but using Rayseenese... Why? Seaton wondered to himself. Oh, I see . Soften 'em up. Scare the pants off of 'em , then put on the screws. "Yield, clerk," the new voice said. "I yield with pleasure, O Great One," the clerk replied, and went rigidly motionless; not moving a finger or a foot. # , "It pleases me to study this matter myself' the giant voice went on as though the clerk had not spoken. "While slight, the possibility does exist that some of these verminous creatures "have dared to plot against the Race Supreme. If this is merely another squabble among themselves for place it is of no interest; but if there is any trace of non-submission, vermin and city will cease to exist. I shall learn the deepest truth. They can make lying tapes, but no entity of this or of any other galaxy can lie to a Great One mind to mind." While the Great One talked, the picture on the screen began ' to change. The clerk began to fade out and something else began to thicken in. And Seaton, knowing what was coming, set himself in earnest and brought into play that part of his multi-compartmented mind that was the contribution of Drasnik, the First of Psychology of Norlamin. T his coming interview, he knew, must be vastly different from his meeting with the Supreme Great One of Chlora One. That had been a wide-open, hammer-and-tongs battle: a battle of sheer power of mind. Here it would have to be a matter of delicacy of control; of precision and of nicety and of skill as well as of power. He would have to play his mind as exactly and as subtly as Dorothy played her Stradivarius, for if the monster came to suspect any iota of the truth all hell would be out for noon with no pitch hot. The screen cleared and Seaton saw what he had known he would see; a large, flatly ellipsoidal mass of something that was not quite a jelly nor quite a solid; a monstrosity through whose transparent outer membrane there was visible, a large, intricately convoluted brain. As Seaton looked at the thing it developed an immense eye, from which there poured directly into Seaton's brain a beam of mental energy, so incredibly powerful as to be almost tangible physically. Braced as he was, every element of the man's mind quivered under the impact of that callously harddriven probe; but by exerting all his tremendous mental might he took it. More, he was able to hold his Drasnik-taught defenses so tightly as to reveal only and precisely what the Great One expected to find -- utter helplessness and abject submission. That probe was not designed to kill. Or rather, the Great One did not care in the least whether it killed or not. It was intended to elicit the complete truth; and from any ordinary human mind it did. "Can you lie to me, slave?" That tremendous voice resounded throughout every chamber of Seaton's mind. "Or withhold from me any iota of the truth?" "I cannot lie to you, O Great One; nor withhold from you any iota, however small, of the truth." This took everything of camouflage and of defensive screen Seaton had; but he managed to reveal no sign at all of any of it. "How much do you personally know, not of the details of the coup d'etat itself, but of the motivation underlying it?" # # "Everything, O Great One, since I was Premier Ree-Toe Prenk's righthand man,' and Seaton reported the exact truth of Prenk's motivation and planning. The Great One's probe vanished, the screen went dark, and the sender resumed its sending. "Huh!" Seaton wiped his sweating face with his handkerchief. "This dope isn't of any interest, clerk old boy, so just file it away and forget it,' His Nibs says. It's a good thing lie was after Prenk's motivation, not mine. If he'd really bored in after mine I don't know whether I could have kept things all nice and peaceful or not. I knew I'd been nudged, believe you me." "I believe you," Crane said, looking into his friend's eyes. "Are you sure you're all right?" And: The reporter goggled in awe. "And you can still talk intelligently, sir?" "Yeah." Seaton answered both questions at once, but did not elaborate. "What did you get, Mart? Anything?" "I learned where it is," said Crane. Nothing else. Small reward for weeks of effort and risk of life... and yet it was for that the entire campaign on the planet Ray-See-Nee had been waged! The whole operation had been designed to get that one fact. A people had been given new hope; some hundreds had lost their lives; many thousands had received scars they would bear a long time; a regime had been deposed and a new one put in power. But these were only by-products, only the small change of a victory which justified all of Seaton's efforts... and would have its consequences in every part of the Universe, for incalculable times to come! Llanzlan Mergon R ay-See-Nee's new department heads, in their meeting with Premier Ree-Toe Prenk in the Room of State, were in unanimous agreement that everything was under control. Some quislings and recalcitrants had been shot and a few more would probably have to be. That was only to be expected. Yes, since all of the new incumbents had been jumped many grades in status and in authority and in salary, there was and would continue to be a certain amount of jealousy; but that was not of very much importance. The jealous ones would either accept the facts of life or be shot. Period. After the meeting was over KayLee Barlo came up to Seaton. She now bore herself as though she had been born an Exalted; her ex-boss pistol swung jauntily at one very female hip as she walked. As she came up to him and took both his hands in hers, standing so close to him that her upstanding, outstanding hair-do almost tickled his nose, it became evident that her weapon had been fired quite recently. She wore no perfume, and the faint but unmistakable acrid odor of burned smokeless powder still clung to her hair. "Oh, Ky-El!" she exclaimed, equal to equal now. "I'll simply never be IF able to thank you enough. Nor will all Ray-See-Nee. This world will be an entirely different place to live on hereafter." "I sincerely hope so, Kay-Lee." Seaton smiled into the girl's eager, expressive face. "Ray-See-Nee is lucky to have had as strong, able and just a man as Ree-Toe Prenk to take over." "As you said a while back, 'You can say that again.' He's all of that. What he's done already is marvelous. But everyone knows -- he does, too, he's put you up on a pedestal a mile high -- that it's you who put him in the saddle. That's what I wanted mostly to tell you. Also, I wanted to ask you -- " she paused and flushed slightly -- "you'll forget, won't you please, what I said about that louse's brains? I didn't mean that, really; I'm not the type to cherish a grudge like that. I was a little... well, I'd been a little put out with him, just before you came in." With which masterpiece of understatement she gave his hands another vigorous, friendly squeeze and, swinging around, walked hipwiggling out of the room. She thereupon took certain steps and performed certain actions which would have astonished Seaton very much, had he known about them. But he did not -- until much later. Prenk came up to the Skylarkers a few minutes later. He shook hands with each of the off-worlders; thanked them in rounded phrases. "I would like very much to have you stay here indefinitely, friends," he concluded, "but I know of course that that is impossible. If all the resources of the world could be devoted to the project and if all our technical men could work on it undetected for a year, we could not build anything able to withstand those Chlorans' beams." "We can't either. Not here," Seaton said. "That's why we have to go; but we'll be back. I don't know when; but we'll be back some day." "I'm sure you will: and may Great My-Ko-Ta ward you and cherish you as you build." B ack on what was left of their worldlet, now reconditioned to the extent that it was not likely to fall apart on the spot, and out in deep space once more, the Skylarkers began efficiently and expertly to put the pieces of their victory together. They had located the Enemy. They even had an operating covert base in Chloran territory, to which they could return at any time. They had weapons which, in theory at least, could cope with anything the Chlorans were likely to own. Yet Seaton fretted. The weapons were there, but his control was not adequate; the weapons had outgrown the control. Dealing with Chlorans was touchy business. You wanted all the space you could get between you and them. Yet. at any operating range which even Seaton, to say nothing of Crane and the others, considered safe, their striking power was simply too erratic to denend on. "It's a bust," Seaton said gloomily. "Course, if worst came to worst I could go back to undercover methods. Smuggle in a bomb, maybe -- # just to throw their main centers off balance while the rest of you hit them with all we've got. I could stow away aboard one of those ore-scows taking the booty off Ray-See-Nee easily enough -- " "You talk like a man with a paper nose." Dorothy scoffed. "I have a picture of that expedition -- of you in armor, with air-tanks strapped on your back and lugging an underwater camera or projector around. Un-noticed... I don't think." And Dunark added, "And since you haven't got any idea of what to look for, you'd have to lug around a full analsynth set-up. A couple of tons of stuff. Uh-uh." Seaton grinned, unperturbed. : "That's what I was coming to. Getting in would be easy, but doing anything wouldn't. And neither iwould getting out. But Mart, we've .chopped one horn off of the dilem; ma, but we haven't even touched the other. We've got to master that fourth-dimension rig; and we're not even close. It's a matter of kind , not merely of degree." "I can't see that. If so, we could not have warded off their attack at all." "Oh, I didn't mean the energies themselves; it's the control of that much stuff. Synchronization, phasing in, combination, and so forth. Getting such stuff as that closely enough together and holding it closely enough together. Look, Mart. This bit that we've got left of the Valeron is stuffed with machinery practically to the skin. She's so small, relatively, that you wouldn't think there'd be any trouble meshing in machines from various parts of her. But there is. Plenty. It never showed up before because we never had to use a fraction of our total power before, but it showed up plenty back there. My beam was loose as ashes, and I've figured out why. "Sixth-order stuff moves as many times faster than light as light does faster than a snail -- maybe j more. But it still takes a little time to get from one machine to another, inside even as small a globe as this is. See?" Crane frowned in thought. "I see. I also see what the difficulties would be in anything large enough and strong enough to attack the Chlorans. It would mean timing each generator and each element of each projector; and each with a permissible variation of an infinitesimal fraction of a microsecond. That, of course, means Rovol and Caslor." "I suppose it does... unless we can figure out an easier, faster way... I don't know whether the Chlorans have got anything like that or not, but they've got something. There ought to be some way of snitching it off of them." "Why must they have?" Dunark demanded. "It's probably just a matter of size. They have a whole planet to fortify. Dozens of 'em if they want to. So it doesn't have to be a matter of refinement at all. Just brutal, piled up, overwhelming power." "Could be," Seaton agreed. "If so, we can't match it, since the Valeron was as big as she could be and still have a factor of safety of two point two." He paused in thought, then went on, "But with such refineIF ment, we could take a planet, no matter how loaded it was... I think. So maybe we'd better take off for Norlamin, at that." "One thing we should do first, perhaps," Dorothy suggested. "Find out what that DuQuesne really did. He has me worried." "Maybe we should, at that," Seaton agreed. "I'd forgotten all about the big black ape." I t was easy enough to find the line along which DuQuesne had traveled; the plug-chart was proof that he had not lied about that. They reached without incident the neighborhood of the point DuQuesne had marked on the chart. Seaton sent out a working projection of the device that, by intercepting and amplifying light-waves traversing open space, enabled him actually to see events that had happened in the not-too distant past. He found the scene he wanted. He studied it, analyzed and recorded it. Then: "He lied to me almost a hundred and eighty degrees," Seaton said. "That beam came from that galaxy over there." He jerked a thumb. "The alien who bothered him was in that galaxy. That much I'll buy. But it doesn't make sense that he'd go there. That alien was nobody he wanted to monkey with, that's for dead sure. So where did he meet the Jelmi, if not in that galaxy?" "On the moon, perhaps," Margaret said. "Possibly. I'll compute it... no, the timing isn't right -- " Seaton thought for a moment -- "but there's no use guessing. That galaxy may be the first place to look for sign; but I'll bet my case buck it'll be a long, cold hunt. I'd like awfully well to have that gizmo -- flip bombs past the Chlorans' screens and walls with it..." "From a distance greater than their working range?" Crane asked. "That's so, too... or maybeso, at that, chum. Who knows what you can do through the fourth? But it looks as though our best bet is to beat it to Norlamin, rebuild this wreck, and tear into that business of refinement of synchronization. So say you all?" So said they all and Seaton, flipping on full-power sixth-order drive, set course for Norlamin A s the student will be aware, the events in this climactic struggle between the arch-enemies, Seaton and DuQuesne, were at this point reaching an area of maximum tension. It is curious to reflect that the outer symptom of this internal disruptive stress was, in the case of nearly every major component of the events to come, a psychological state of either satisfied achievement, or contented decision, or calm resignation. It is as though each of the major operatives were suffering from a universe-wide sense of false tranquility. On Ray-See-Nee, the new government felt its problems were behind it and only a period of solid, rewarding rebuilding lay ahead. (Although Kay-Lee Barlo had taken certain prudent precautions against this hope being illusory -- as we shall see.) The Chlorans, proud and scornful in their absolute supremacy, had no nini that Seaton or anyone else was making or even proposed to make any effective moves against them. The Fenachrone, such few weary survivors as remained of them, had given themselves over to -- not despair, no; but a proud acceptance of the fact that they were doomed. There was in fact no tranquility in store for any of them! But they had not yet found that out. Meanwhile the Jelmi, for example, were just beginning to feel the first itch of new challenges. In their big new space-rover, the Mallidaxian , Savant Tammon was as nearly perfectly happy as it is possible for a human or humanoid to be. He had made the greatest breakthrough of his career; perhaps the greatest breakthrough of all history. Exploring its many ramifications and determining its many as yet unsuspected possibilities would keep him busy for the rest of his life. Wherefore he was working fourteen or fifteen hours every day and reveling in every minute of it. He hummed happily to himself; occasionally he burst into song -- in a voice that was decidedly not of grand-operatic quality. He had enlarged his private laboratory by tearing out four storerooms adjoining it; and the whole immense room was stacked to the ceiling with new apparatus and equipment. He was standing on a narrow catwalk, rubbing his bristly chin with the back of his hand as he wondered where he could put another two-ton tool, when Mergon and Luloy came swinging in; hand in hand as usual. Vastly different from Tammon, Mergon was not at all happy about the status quo. "Listen, Tamm!" he burst out. "I've been yapping at you for a week and a half for a decision and your time is up as of right now. If you don't pull your head out of the fourth dimension and make it right now I'll do it myself and to hell with you and your authority as Captain-Commander." "Huh? What? Time? Decision? What decision?" It was plain that the old savant had no idea at all of what his first assistant was so wrought up about. "You set course for Mallidax and said we were going back to Mallidax. That's sheer idiocy and you know it. Of all places in the charted universe we should not go to, Mallidax is top and prime. We're too close for comfort already. Even though Klazmon must have lost us back there in Sol's system, he certainly picked us up again long ago and he'd give both wings and all his teeth for half the stuff you have here," and Mergon waved both arms indicatively around the jampacked room. "Oh?" Tammon gazed owlishly at the pair. "There was some talk... but why should I care where we go? This is the merest trifle, Mergon, and this work is important. You will attend to all such matters, Mergon. Do not bother me with trivia any more," and Tammoa cut communications with them as definitely as though he had thrown a switch. IF Mergon shrugged his shoulders and Luloy giggled. "You're it, boy. That's what you get for sticking your neck out. All hail our new Captain-Commander!" "Well, somebody had to. All our necks would have been in slings in another week. So pass the word, will you, and I'll skip up to the control room and change course." L uloy spread the word; which was received with acclaim. Practically everybody aboard who was anybody agreed with Sennlloy when she said, "It's high time somebody took over and Merg's undoubtedly the best man for the job. Tammy's a nice old dear, but ever since he got bitten by that fourthdimension germ he hasn't known what month it is or which way is of where he is in space." "You see, Merg?" Luloy crowed, when it became evident that the shift in command was heartily approved. "I wouldn't even dream of ever saying 'I told you so', but I said at the first meeting that you should be Captain-Commander, and now everybody thinks so, almost." "Yeah, almost," he agreed; not at all enthusiastically. "Everybody except the half-wits. Pass the buck. Let George do it. Nobody with a brain firing on three barrels wants the job." "Why, that isn't so, Merg. You know it isn't!" she protested, indignantly. "Well,  don't want it," he broke in, "but since Tamm wished it onto me I'll take a crack at it." The Mallidaxian , swinging wide and braking down, hard, skirted the outermost edge of the Realm; the edge farthest away from Llurdiax. Mergon did not approach or signal to any planet of the Jelmi. Instead, he picked out an uninhabited Tellustype planet four solar systems away from the Border and landed on it. And there, under cover of the superdreadnaught's mighty defensive screens and with Captain-Commander Mergon tensely on watch, the engineers and scientists disembarked, set up their high-order projectors, and went furiously to work building an enormous and enormously powerful dome. The work went on uninterruptedly, day after day; for so many days that both Mergon and Luloy became concerned -- the girl very highly so. "Do you suppose we've figured wrong?" she asked. Mergon frowned. "I can't be sure, of course, but I don't think so. Pure logic, remember. Everything we've done has been designed to keep Klazmon guessing. Off balance. He's fortified Llurdiax, that's sure, but we don't know how heavily and we can't find out." He paused. "Without using the gizmo, which of course is out," said Luloy. "Check. We haven't sent any spyrays or anything else. They wouldn't have got us anything. But he certainly expected us to try. He'll think we don't care... which as a matter of fact, we don't... too much. It's almost a mathematical certainty that we can handle anything he can throw at us as of now. But if we give him time enough to build more really big stuff it'll be just too bad." "And the horrible old monster is probably doing just exactly that," Luloy said. "I wouldn't wonder. But we can finish the dome before he can build enough stuff, and he can't let that happen. Especially since we're not interfering with his prying and spying, but are treating him with the same contempt he used to treat us. That'll bother him no end. Burn him up! Also... remember that stuff in the dome that no Llurd can possibly understand." Luloy laughed. "Because it isn't anything whatever, really, except Llurd-bait? I'm scared that maybe they will understand it yet -- even though I'm sure they won't." "They can't. Their minds won't stretch that far in that direction," Mergon said positively. "They knew we made a breakthrough, so they'll know that what they see is only a fraction of what the thing really is; and that'll scare 'em. As much as Llurdi can be scared, that is. Which isn't very much. So Klazmon will do something before our dome is finished. As I read the tea-leaves, he'll have to." "But just suppose he doesn't take the bait?" "Then we'll have to take the initative. I don't want to -- it'd weaken our bargaining position tremendously -- but I will if I have to." H e did not have to. His analysis of the Llurdan mentality and temperament had been accurate. Four full days before the scheduled date of completion of the dome, Klazmon's full working projection appeared in the Mallidaxiaris control room. Mergon had detected its coming, but had done nothing to interfere with it. The Llurd quite obviously intended parley, not violence. "Hail, brother llanzlan, Klazmon of the Llurdi," Mergon greeted his visitor quietly, but in the phraseology of one ruler greeting another on the basis of unquestionable equality. "Is there perhaps some service that I, Llanzlan Mergon of the Realm of the Jelmi, may perform for you and thus place you in my debt?" This, to a human dictator, would have been effrontery intolerable; but Mergon had been pretty sure that it would have little or no effect, emotionally, upon Klazmon. Nor did it; to all seeming it had no effect at all. The Llurd merely said, "You wish me to believe that you Jelmi have made a breakthrough sufficiently important to justify the establishment of an independent but coexistent Realm of the Jelmi." This was in no sense a question; it was a flat statement. Mergon had been eminently correct in his assumption that he would not have lo draw the Llurd a blueprint. Mergon quirked an eyebrow at Luloy, who pressed the button that signaled all the savants in the dome to drop their tools and dash back into the ship. "That is correct," Mergon said. Klazmon's projection remained motionless and silent; both Jelmi could almost perceive the Llurd's thoughts. And Mergon, who had IF tracked the Llurd's thoughts so unerringly so far, was practically certain that he was still on track. Klazmon did not actually know whether the Jelmi had made a breakthrough or not. The Jelmi intended to make him believe that they had, and that breakthrough was something that made them either invulnerable or invincible, or both. Any of those matters or assumptions could be either true or false. One of them, the question of invulnerability, could be and should be tested without delay If they were in fact invulnerable, # possible attack could harm them. If they were not invulnerable they were bluffing and lying and should therefore be eliminated. Wherefore Mergon was not surprised when Klazmon's projection vanished without having said another word -- nor when, an instant after that vanishment, the Mallidaxiaris mighty defensive screens Glared white. They did not even pause at the yellow or the yellow-white, but went directly to the blinding white; to the degree of radiance at which the vessel's spare began automatically to cut in -- spare after spare after spare. After staring in silence for two long minutes, Mergon said, "We figured their most probable maximum offense and applied a factor of safety of three -- and look at 'em!" White-faced, Luloy licked her lips. "Mighty Llenderllon!" she cried. "How can they possibly deliver such an attack 'way out here?" Then Mergon picked up his microphone and said, "Our screens are still holding and they're protecting the dome; but we're going to need a lot more defense. So go back out there, please, and give me everything you can." He then sat back and stared tightjawed at the ever-climbing needles of his meters and at the unchanging vessel's screens. XX The Geas A s the Llurd's attack mounted to higher and ever higher plateaus of fury, Mergon slid along his bench to his fourth-dimensional controls and there appeared on the floor beside him a lithium-hydride fusion bomb, armed and ready. He stared at it, his jaw-muscles tightening into lumps. Luloy stared at the thing, too, and her face became even paler than it had been. "But could you, Merg?" she asked, through stiff lips. "I... I mean, you couldn't, possibly... could you?" "I don't know," he said harshly, scarcely separating locked teeth. "I may have to whether I can or not. We had a factor of safety of three. Two point nine of them are in now and the last tenth is starting up. The dome can't put out more than that." "I know! But if we blow the llanzlanate up, won't they kill all the Jelmi of all our worlds and start breeding a more tractable race of slaves?" IF "That's the way I read it. In that case we eight hundred could get away clean and start a better civilization somewhere out of range." She shuddered. "In that case would life be worth living?" "It's a tough decision to make... since the alternative could be for us to kill all the Llurdi." "Oh, no!" she cried. "But don't you think, Merg, that he'll cooperate? They're absolutely logical, you know." "Maybe. In one way I think so, but I simply can't see any absolute ruler making such an abject surrender. However, we've got to decide right now and we'll have to stick to our decision -- we both know that he can't be bluffed. If it comes right down to it we can do one of three things. First, commit suicide for our whole eight hundred by not touching the bomb off. Second, wipe them out. Third, let them wipe out all Jelmi except us. What's your vote?" "Llenderllon help me! Put that way, there's -- oh, look!" she screamed , in a miraculously changed tone of voice. "The master-meter! It's slowing down! It's going to stop!" She uttered an ear-splitting shriek of pure joy and hurled herself into her husband's arms. "It's stabilized, for a fact," Mergon said, after their emotions had subsided to something approaching normal. "He's throwing everything he's got at us. We're holding him, but just barely, so the question is -- " "One thing first," she broke in. "My vote. I hate to say it, but we can't let them kill our race." He put his arm around her and squeezed. "That's what I was sure you'd say. The question now is, how long do we let him stew in his own juice before we skip over there and talk peace terms?" "Not long enough to let him build more generators than we can to fry us with," she replied, promptly if a bit unclearly. "One day? Half a day? A quarter?" "But long enough to let him know he's licked," Mergon said. "I'd say one full day would be just about right. So let's go get us some sleep." "Sleep! Llenderllon's eyeballs! Can you even think of such a thing as sleep after all this?" "Certainly I can. So can you -- you're all frazzled out. Come on girl, we're hitting the sheets." "Why, I won't be able to sleep a wink until this is all over!" But she was wrong; in ten minutes they were both sleeping the sleep of exhaustion. T welve hours later she came suddenly awake, rolled over toward him, and shook him vigorously by the shoulder. "Wake up, you!" He grumbled something and tried to pull away from her grip. She shook him again. "Wake up, you great big oaf! Suppose that beast Klazmon has got more generators builtand our screens are all failing?" He opened one eye. "If they fad, sweet, we won't know a thing about it." He opened the other eye and, three-quarters awake now, went on, "Do you think I'm running this ship single-handed? What do you think the other officers are for?" "But they aren't you," she declared, with completely feminine illogic where her husband was concerned. "So hurry up and get up and we'll go see for ourselves." "Okay, but not 'til after breakfast, if I have to smack you down. So punch us up a gallon of coffee, huh? And a couple slabs of ham and six or eight eggs? Then we'll go see." They ate and went and saw. The screens still flared at the same blinding white, but there were no signs of overloading or of failure. They could, the Third Officer bragged, keep it up fof years. Everything was under control. "You hope," Mergon said -- but not to the officer. He said that under his breath as he and Luloy turned away toward their own station. Much to Mergon's relief, nothing happened during the rest of the day, and at the end of the twenty-fourth hour he sent the actual bomb and working projections of himself and Luloy into the llanzlanate. Into the llanzlan's private study, where Klazmon was hard at work. It was an immense room, and one in which a good anthropologist could have worked delightedly for weeks. The floor was bare, hard, smoothpolished; fantastically inlaid in metal and colored quartz and turquoise and jade. The pictures -- framed mostly in extruded stainless steel -- portrayed scenes (?) and things (?) and events (?) never perceived by any Earthly sense and starkly incomprehensible to any Earthly mind. The furniture was... "weird" is the only possible oneword description. Every detail of the room proclaimed that here was the private retreat of a highly talented and very eminent member of a culture that was old, wide and high. "Hail, Llanzlan Klazmon," Mergon said quietly, conversationally. "You will examine this bomb, please, to make sure that, unlike us two, it is actual and practical." T he Llurd's eyes had bulged a little and the tip of his tail had twitched slightly at the apparition. That was all. He picked up an instrument with a binocular eyepiece, peered through it for a couple of seconds, and put it down. "It is actual and practical," he agreed. Whatever emotions may have been surging through the llanzlan's mind, his control was superb. He did not ask them how they had done it, or why, or any other question. After the event he knew much and could guess more -- and he was perhaps the starkest realist of the most starkly realistic race of intelligent beings yet known to live. "You realize, of course, that we do not intend to fire it except as the ultimately last resort." "I do now." "Ah, yes. Our conduct throughout has surprised you; especially that we did not counterattack." "If not exactly surprised, at least did not anticipate that Jelmi would or could act with practically Llurdan logic," the Llurd conceded. "We can. And when we think it best, we do. We suggest that you cut off your attack. We will then IF put on air-suits and return here in person, to discuss recent developments as reasoning and logical entities should." The Llurd was fast on the uptake. He knew that, given time, he could crush this threat; but he knew that he would not have the time. He could see ahead as well as Mergon could to the total destruction of two hundred forty more planets. Wherefore he barked a couple of syllables at a com and the furiously incandescent screens of the Mallidaxian went cold and dark. Jelmi and bomb disappeared. Mergon and Luloy donned gas-tight, self-contained, plastic-helmeted coveralls and reappeared in the Llanzlan's study. Klazmon seated them courteously in two Jelman easychairs -- which looked atrociously out of place in that room -- and the peace conference, which was to last for days, began. "First," the llanzlan said, "this breakthrough that you have accomplished. At what stage in the negotiations do you propose to give me the complete technical specifications of it." "Now," Mergon said, and a yardhigh stack of tapes appeared on the floor beside the Llurd's desk. It was the entire' specs and description of the fourth-dimensional translator. Nothing was omitted or obscured. "Oh? I see. There is, then, much work yet to be done on it. Work that only you Jelmi can do." "That is true, as you will learn from those tapes. Now," said Mergon, settling down to the bargaining session, "first, we have shown you that Jelmi capable of doing geniuetype work cannot be coerced into doing it. Second, the fact is that it is psychologically impossible for us to do such work under coercion. Third, we believe firmly that free and independent Jelmi can coexist with the Llurdi. Fourth, we believe equally firmly that for the best good of both races they should so coexist..." And at that first day's end, after supper, Luloy said, "Merg, I simply would not have believed it. Ever. I'm not sure I really believe it now. But you know I almost like -- I actually admire that horrible monster in some ways!" S eaton called Rovol of Rays, on Norlamin, as soon as he could reach him. He told him the story of what he had done on Ray-SeeNee, and what he hoped to gain by it, in detail, then went on to ask his help on the control of the fourtlidimensional translator. "You see, Rovol, at perfect sync it would -- theoretically -- take zero power. I don't expect the unattainable ideal, of course -- " he winked at Dorothy -- "just close enough so we can pack enough stuff into the Valeron to handle everything they can throw at us and still have enough left over to fight back with. "Ah, youth, a fascinating problem indeed. I will begin work on it at once, and will call in certain others in whose provinces some aspects of it lie. By the time you arrive here we will perhaps have determined whether or not any solution is at present possible." "What?" Seaton yelped. "Why -- I thought -- surely -- " he almost stuttered. "I thought you'd have it done by then -- maybe be sending it out to meet us, even." The old Normalinian's paternally forbearing sigh was highly expressive. "Still the heedless, thoughtless youth, in spite of all our teachings. You have not studied the problem yourself at all." "Well, not very much, I admit." "I advise you to do so. If you devote to it every period of labor between now and your arrival here you may perhaps be able to talk about it intelligently," and Rovol cut com. Dorothy whistled. She didn't whistle very often, but she could do it very expressively. "Yeah," Seaton said, ruefully. "And the old boy wasn't kidding, either." "Not having a sense of humor, he can't kid. He really slapped you on the wrist, friend. But why would it be such a horrible job to sync a few generators in?" "I don't know, but I'll find out." He went, worked for four solid hours with the Brain, and came back wearing a sheepish grin. "It's true," he reported. "I knew it'd be tricky, but I had no idea. You have to work intelligently, manipulably and reproducibly in time units of three times ten to the minus twenty-eighth of. a second -- the time it takes light of a centimeter." "Hush. You don't expect me to understand that, do you?" "I'll say I don't. I don't expect to even really understand it myself." Seaton did not work on the problem every day until arrival, but he worked on it for over a hundred hours -- enough so that he began to realize how difficult it was. The Skylark of Valeron entered the Green System, approached Norlamin, and went into orbit around it. The travelers boarded a shuttle, which thereupon began to slide down a landing-beam toward Rovol's private dock. The little craft settled gently into a neoprene-lined cup. The visitors disembarked and walked down a short flight of metallic steps, at the foot of which the ancient, whitebearded sage was waiting for them. He greeted them warmly -- for a Normalinian -- and led them through the "garden" toward the metal-andquartz palace that was his home. "Oh, Dick, isn't it wonderful !" Dorothy pressed his arm against her side. "It's so much like Orion's and yet so different..." And it was both. The acreage of velvet-short, springy grass was about the same as that upon which they had landed so long before. The imperishable-metal statuary was similar. Here also were the beds of spectacular flowers and the hedges and sculptured masses of gorgeously vari-colored plant life. The tapestry wall, however -- composed of ently moving, flashing, self-luminous jewels of all the colors of the rainbow -- ran for a good three hundred yards beside the walk. It was evident that the women of the Rovol had been working on it for hundreds IF of centuries instead of for mere hundreds of years. Instead of being only form and color, as was the wall of the Orion, it was well along toward portraying the entire history of the Family Rovol. Rovol wanted to entertain his guests instead of work, but Seaton objected. "Shame on you, Rovol. The Period of Labor is just starting, and remember how you fellows used to bat my ears down about there being definite and non-interchangeable times for work and for play and so forth?" "That is of course true, youth," Rovol agreed, equably enough. "I should not have entertained the idea for a moment. My companion will welcome the ladies and show them to your apartments. We will proceed at once to the Area of Experiment," and he called an aircar by fingering a stud at his belt. "I've been studying, as you suggested," Seaton said then. "Can the thing be solved? The more I worked on it the more dubious I got." "Yes, but the application of its solution will be neither easy nor simple." The aircar settled gently to the walk a few yards ahead of the party and Rovol and Seaton boarded it;. Rovol still talking. "But you will be delighted to know that, thanks to your gift of the metal of power, what would have been a work of lifetimes can very probably be accomplished in a few mere years." Seaton was not delighted. Knowing what Rovol could mean by the word "few", he was appalled; but there was nothing whatever he could do to speed things up. r ye spent a couple of weeks reI building the Skylark of Val eron -- with batteries of offensive and defensive weaponry where single machines had been -- then stood around and watched the Normalinians work. And as day followed day without anything being accomplished he became more and more tense and impatient. He concealed his feelings perfectly, he thought; but he should have known that he could hide nothing from the extremely percipient mind of the giri who was in every respect his other half. "Dick, you've been jittering like a witch," she said one evening, "about something I can't see any reason for. But you have a reason, or you wouldn't be doing it. So break down and tell me." "I can't, confound it. I know I'm always in a rush to get a thing done, but not like this. I'm all of a twitter inside. I can't sleep..." Dorothy snickered. "You can't? If what you were doing last night wasn't sleeping it was the most reasonable facsimile thereof I've ever seen. Or heard." "Not like I ought to, I mean. Nightmares. Devils all the time sticking me with pitchforks. Do you believe in hunches?" "No," she said, promptly. # T never had any. Not a one." "I never did, either, and if this is one I never want to have another. But it could be a hunch that we ought to be investigating that alien galaxy of DuQuesne's. Whatever it is, I want to go somewhere and I haven't the faintest idea where." "Oh? Listen!" Dorothy's eyes widened. "Ill bet you're getting an answer to that message we sent out!" He shook his head. "Uh-uh. Can't be. Telepathy has got to be something you can understand." "Who besides you ever said it would have to be telepathy? And who knows what telepathy would have to be like? Come on, let's go tell Martin and Peggy!" "Huh?" he yelped. "Tell M. Reynolds Crane, the hardest-boiled skeptic that ever went unhung, that I want to go skyshooting to hellangone off into the wild blue yonder just because I've got an itch that I can't scratch?" "Why not?" She looked him steadily in the eye. "We're exploring terra incognita , Dick. How much do you really know about that mind of yours, the way it is now?" "Okay. Maybe they'll buy it; you did. Let's go." They went; and, a little to Seaton's surprise, Crane agreed with Dorothy. So did Margaret. Hence three hours later, the big sky-rover was on her way. Four days out, however, Seaton said, "This isn't the answer, I don't think. The itch is still there. So what?" There was silence for a couple of minutes, then Dorothy chuckled suddenly. Sobering quickly, she said, with a perfectly straight face, "I'll bet it's that new department head girl-friend of yours. Dick; the pistolpacking mama with the wiggle. She wants to see the big, bold, handsome Earthman again. And if it is, I'll scratch..." Seaton jumped almost out of his chair. "You're not kidding . half as much as you think you are, pet. That crack took a good scratch at exactly where it itches." He put on his remote-control helmet and changed course. "And that helps still more." He thought for minutes, then shrugged his shoulders and said, "I'm not getting a thing... not anything more at all. How many of you remember either Ree-Toe Prenk or the girl well enough to picture either of them accurately in your minds?" They all remembered one or both of the Rayseenians. "Okay. This'll sound silly. It is silly, for all the tea in China, but let's try something. All join hands, picture either or both of them, and think at them as hard as we can. The thought is simply 'we're coming.' Okay?" More than half sheepishly, they tried it -- and it worked. At least Seaton said, "Well, it worked, I guess. Anyway, for the first time in weeks, it's gone. But I didn't get a thing. Nothing whatever. Not even a hint either that we were being paged or that our reply was being received. Did any of you?" None of them had. "Huh!" Seaton snorted. "If this is telepathy they can keep it -- I'll take Morse's original telegraph!" A week or so after the Skylark of Valeron left the neighborhood of Ray-See-Nee, that planet's new government began to have trouble. Ree-Toe Prenk had said and had believed that whoever controlled the capital controlled the world, but that IF was not true in his case. It had always been true previously because the incoming powers had always been of the same corrupt-to-the-core stripe as those who were ousted -- and when corruption has been the way of life for generations it is deep-rooted indeed. There were, of course, other factors behind the unrest. But neither Prenk nor any other human knew about them -- then. All the district bosses had always gone along with the Big Boss as a matter of course. Not one of them cared a whit who ran the world, as long as his own privileges and perquisites and powers and takes were not affected. Prenk, however, was strictly honest and strictly just. If he should succeed in taking over Ray-See-Nee's government in full, every crook and boodler on the planet would lose everything he had; possibly even his life. Thus, while the new Premier held the capital -- in a rapidly deteriorating grip -- his influence outside that city's limits varied inversely as about the fourth power of the distance. This resistance, while actual enough, was in no sense overt. Every order was ostensibly obeyed to the letter; but everything deteriorated at an accelerating rate and Prenk could do nothing whatever about it. Whenever and wherever Prenk was not looking, business went on as usual -- gambling, drugs, prostitution, crime and protection -- but he could not prove any of it. Neither uniformed police nor detectives could find anything much amiss. They made arrests, but no suspect was ever convicted. The prosecution's cases were weak. The juries brought in verdicts of "innocent", usually without leaving the box. Even when, in desperation, Prenk went -- supposedly top-secretly -- to an outlying city, fully prepared to stage a questioning that would have made Torquemada blush, he did nothing and he learned nothing. Every person on his list had vanished tracelessly and every present incumbent had abundant proof of rnocence. Nor did any of them know why they had been promoted so suddenly. They were just lucky, they guessed. It was indeed baffling. It would have been less so if Prenk had had any notion of the universe-wide stir of mighty events just beginning to bubble -- if he had been able, as we are now able, to fit together afl these patchwork stories into one nearly Norlaminian fabric of universal history. But he wasn't -- and, for his peace of mind, perhaps that was just M well! P remier Ree-Toe Prenk sat at his desk in the Room of State. Kay-Lee Barlo, shapely legs crossed and pistol at hip, sat at his left. SyBy Takeel, the new Captain-General of the Guard, stood at ease at his right. "Whoever is doine this is a smooth, shrewd operator," Prenk said. "So much so that you two are the only people I can trust. And I don't suppose either of you will ever be approached. Probably neither of you would be bought even if you offered yourselves ever so deftly for sale." "I wouldn't be, certainly," Takeel said. "Captains-General of mercenaries don't sell out. I wouldn't answer for any of my lieutenants, though, if there's loot to be had. There is here, I take it?" "Unlimited quantities, apparently. So you, too, are subject to assassination?" The soldier shrugged. "Oh, yes, it's an occupational hazard. How about you. Exalted Barlo? No chance either, I'd say?" "None at all. My stand is too well known. Half my people would stab me in the back if they dared to and they all look me in the eye and lie in their Mi-Ko-Ta-cursed teeth. I wish Ky-El Mokak and his people would get back here quick," Takeel said wistfully. "So do I," Prenk said, glumly. "But even if we had a sixth-order tightbeamer and could use it, we haven't the slightest idea of where he came from or where he went to." "That's true." She nibbled at her lip. "But listen. I'm a psychic. It runs in the women of some families, you know, being... well, what most people call witches, kind of. My talent isn't fully developed yet, but mother and I together could witch-wish at him to come back here as fast #s he can and I'm sure he would." The soldier's face showed quite plainly what he thought of the idea, but Prenk nodded -- if more than somewhat dubiously. "I've heard of that 'witch-wishing' business, and that it sometimes works. So go home right now and get at it, Kay-Lee, and give it everything youand your mother both can put out." Kay-Lee went home forthwith and went into executive session with her mother; a handsome, black-haired woman of forty-odd. "And I have positive identification," the girl concluded. "His blood was all over the place -- positively quarts of it -- and I saved some just in case." And, of course, she had -- prudently, wisely and, as it turned out, luckily for all concerned! The older woman's face cleared. "That's good. Without a positive, I'm afraid it would be hopeless at what the distance probably is by this time. Run and get the witchholly, dear, while I fix the incense." They each ate seven ritually preserved witch-holly berries and inhaled seven deep drafts of aromatic smoke. While they were waiting for the powerful drugs to take effect, Kay-Lee asked, "How much of this rigamarole is chemistry, do you suppose, mother, and how much is just hocus-pocus?" "No one knows. Some day, whatever it is that we have will be recognized as having existence and will be really studied. Until then, all we can do is follow the ancient ritual." "I think I'll talk to Ky-El about it. But listen. Witches with any claim at all to decency simply don't put geases on people. But what if he's so far away that we can't reach him any other way?" The older woman frowned, then said, "In that case, my dear, we'll never, never tell anyone a thing about it." IF Re-Seating of the Premier A s the Skylark of Valeron approached Galaxy DW-#-LU, Dorothy said, "Dick, I suppose it's occurred to you more than once that I'm not much of a woman." "You aren't? I'd say you'd do until the real thing showed up." Seaton, who had been thinking of the problem of synchronization instead of his wife, changed voice instantly when he really looked at her and saw what a black mood she was in. "You're the universe's best, is all, ace. I knew you were feeling a little low in your mind, but not... listen, sweetheart. What could possibly make you think you aren't the absolute top?" She did not answer the question. Instead, "What do you think you're going to get into this time?" "Nothing much, I'm sure. Prenk's probably running out of ammunition. We can make more in five minutes than he can in five years." "I'm sure that isn't it. You're going into personal danger again and I'll be expected to sit up here in the Skylark eating my heart out wondering if you're alive or dead. You don't see Sitar going through that with Dunark." "Wait up, sweetheart. Mores and customs, remember?" "Mores and customs be damned! Do you remember exactly what Sitar said and exactly how she said it? Did it sound like mores and customs to you? Was there any element whatever of suttee in it?" "But listen, Dottie -- " He took her gently in his arms. "You listen!" she rushed on. "If he dies she doesn't want to keep on living and she won't. And she doesn't care who knows it. Maybe it started that way -- society's sanction -- but that was her personal profession of faith. And I feel the same way. If you die I don't want to keep on living and won't. So next time I'm going with you." Being an American male, he could not accept that without an argument. "But there's Dickie," he said. "There are also her three children on Osnome. I learned something from her about what the basic, rockbottom attitude of a woman toward her man ought to be. Even from little Lotus. She's no bigger than a minute and a half, but what did she do? So while we're having this moment of truth let's be rock-bottom honest with each other for the first time in our lives instead of mouthing the platitudes of our society. I'm not a story-book mother, Dick. If it ever comes right down to a choice, you know how I'll decide -- and how long it will take!" S eaton could not get in touch with Ree-Toe Prenk, of course, until the Valeron was actually inside Galaxy DW-#-LU; but as soon as communication could be established Kay-Lee Barlo asked eagerly; "You did get our thought, then, Ky-El? Mother's and mine? We didn't feel that we were quite reaching you." "Not exactly," Seaton replied. "I didn't get any real thought at all; just a feeling that I ought to be going somewhere that bothered me no end until I headed this way. But since it was you people calling, I'm mighty glad I got what little I did." The Skylark went into orbit around Ray-See-Nee and the Skylarkers climbed into a landing-craft that Seaton had designed and built specifically for the occasion. It was a miniature battleship -- one of the deadliest fighting ships of its size and heft ever built. And this time the whole party was heavily armed. Dunark and Sitar were in full Osnomian panoply of war. Dorothy wore a pair of her long-barrelled .# target pistols in leg-holsters under her bouffant skirt. Even little Lotus wore two .# automatics. "I don't know whether I can hit anybody with one of these or not," she had said while Dorothy was rigging her. "I'd much rather work hand to hand. But if they're too far away to get at I can at least make a lot of noise and look like I'm doing something." They were met at the spaceport by two platoons of the Premier's Guard, led by Captain-General SyBy Takeel himself. They were guarded like visiting royalty from the spaceport to the Capitol Building and up into the Room of State, where they were greeted with informal cordiality by Prenk and by KayLee, who was now an Exalted of the Thirty-Fifth, besides being First Deputy Premier. Prenk seated his guests, not on stools in front of and below his throne-like desk, but at a long conference table with Seaton at its head. The two lieutenants posted guards outside the two immense doors at the far end of the vast room and stationed the rest of their men in position to cover both entrances. Takeel, with velvet slippers over his field-boots, stood on Prenk's desk, commanding the entire room, with a machine-gun-like weapon cradled expertly and accustomedly in the crook of his left arm. "Are things this bad?" Seaton asked. "I knew it was tough when you told us to come loaded for bear -- but this?" "They're exactly this bad. These two -- " Prenk jerked a thumb at Kay-Lee and at Takeel -- "are the only two people on this whole world that I know I can trust. Until quite recently I was sure I held the city -- but now I'm not at all sure of holding even this building. I can only hope that you're not too late. I'll tell you what the situation is; then you will tell me, please, if there is anything you can do about it." He talked for twelve minutes. Then : "P-s-s-s-st!" Kay-Lee hissed. "Danger! Coming -- nearing us -- fast! I can feel it -- taste it -- smell it! Get ready quick!" She sprang to her feet, drew her pistol, and arranged a dozen clips of cartridges meticulously on the table in front of her. The Osnomians' chairs crashed backward, their heavy coats flew off, and they stood tensely ready, machine pistols in all four hands. And, seconds later, the other Skylarkers were on their feet and ready too. The Captain-General had not heard the low-voiced warning, but IF he had seen the action and that was enough. Trigger-nerved Dunark's chair had no sooner struck the floor on its first bounce than Takeel was going into his shooting stance, with his weapon flipping around into firing position as though it were sliding in a greased groove; the while glaring ferociously at his senior lieutenant -- who thereupon began to have an acute attack of the jitters. I t was the commander's savage motion, actually, that ruined the attackers' split-second schedule. For, at a certain second, the two lieutenants were to shoot their captain; then to shoot Prenk and KayLee Barlo; and then, as the attack proper was launched, they were to kill as many of their own men as they could. Thus, knowing what a savage performer the Captain-General was with his atrocious weapon, their hands were forced; they had to act a couple of seconds too soon. They tried -- but with two short bursts so close together as to be practically one, Takeel cut them down. Cut them both almost literally in two. Thus, when the two great doors were blasted simultaneously down and the attackers stormed in with guns ablaze, they did not find a half-dead and completely demoralized Guard and a group of surprised visitors. Instead: The mercenaries were neither dead nor demoralized. They knew exactly what to do and were doing it. Dunark and Sitar had the fire-power of half a company of trained troops and were using it to the fullest full. The Captain-General, from his coign of vantage atop the desk, was spraying both entrances with bullets like a gardener watering two flowerbeds with a hose. Kay-Lee was throwing lead almost as fast as Takeel was; changing magazines with such fluent speed and precision as to miss scarcely a shot. Dorothy, nostrils flaring and violet eyes blazing, was shooting as steadily and as accurately as though she were out on the range marking up another possible. Even tiny Lotus, with one of her .#'s clutched in both hands, was shooting as fast as she could pull the trigger. It was Seaton, however, who ended the battle. He waited long enough to be absolutely sure of what was going on, then fired twice with his left-hand magnum -- through the doorways, high over the heads of the attackers, far down the corridors. There were two terrific explosions; followed by one long rumbling crash as that whole section of the building either went somewhere else or collapsed into rubble. Falling and flying masonry and steel and razoredged shards of structural glass killed almost everyone outside the heavily reenforced wall of the Room of State. The shock-waves of the blasts, raging through the doorways, killed half of the enemy massed there and blew the others half the length of the room' And, continuing on with rapidly decreasing force, knocked most of the Skylarkers flat and blew the Captain-General off of the desk and clear back against the wall. "Sangram's head!" that worthy yelled, scrambling to his feet with machine-gun again -- or still? He had not for an instant lost control of thatl -- at the ready. "What in Japnonk's rankest hell was that?" "X-plosive shell," Seaton said, his voice as hard as his eyes. "This time I came loaded for bear. Now we'll mop up and find out what's been going on. I gather, sir, that your two platoon leaders were in on it?" "Yes. It's a shame I had to kill 'em without asking 'em a few questions." He did not explain that he had had neither the time in which nor the weapon with which merely to wound them seriously enough so that neither of them could fight back with any sort of weapon. There was no need. "That won't make too much difference." Seaton looked around; first at his own crew and tKen at the guards, half of whom were down. Medics and first-aid men were rushing in to work on them. He looked again, more closely, at his people and at Prenk and KayLee. Not one of them, apparently, had even been scratched. T hat, however, was logical. The mercenaries were hard-trained fighting men, shooting was their business. Hence the attackers' orders had been to shoot the guards first, and there had been no time to evaluate the actual situation and to change the plan of attack. Hence, as far as anyone knew, not a single bullet had been aimed at the far end of the room. Seaton took a pair of headsets out of his pocket and applied one of them, first to one of the two lieutenants heads, then to the other. "Uh-huh," he grunted then. "That ape didn't know too much, but this one was going to be the new captain-general. I suppose you've got a recorder, Ree-Toe?" "I'll get it, sir!" Kay-Lee exclaimed; and Prenk, eyes bulging, gasped: "Don't tell me you can read a dead brain, sir!" "Oh, yes. They keep their charges, sometimes for days." Kay-Lee handed Seaton a microphone then, and he spoke into it for ten minutes -- the while three Rayseenian faces went through gamuts of emotion; each culminating in the same expression of joyous satisfaction. When Seaton paused for breath Prenk said in awe, "That machine is certainly a something... I don't suppose..." He stopped. "I do suppose, yes. I'll give you a few sets, with blueprints, and show you how they work," and Seaton went on with his reading. A few minutes later he cut off the mike and said, "That ape over there," he pointed, "is one of the Big Wheels. Have someone latch onto him, Ree-Toe; we'll read him next. He's one you'll be really interested in, so I'll hook you up in parallel with me so you can get everything he knows into your own brain." He took a third headset from his pocket and began to adjust its settings, going on, "It takes a different set-up... so... and goes on your head so." "That ape" was a fattish, sallowfaced man of fifty, who had been IF directing operations from outside the room and had intended to stay outside it until everything was secure within. He had been blown into the room and halfway along its length by the force of the blasts. He was pretty badly smashed up, but he was beginning to regain consciousness and was weakly trying to get to his feet. This unlucky wight was a mine of information indeed, but Prenk stopped the mining operation after only a couple of minutes of digging. "Sy-By," he said. "Two more of your officers you can shoot." he gave two names. "Then come back here with some men you think you can trust and we'll test 'em to make sure. By that time I'll have a list of people for you to round up and bring in for examination." There is no need to follow any farther the Premier's progress in cleaning up his planet. In fact, only one more incident that occurred there is of interest here -- one that occurred while Seaton and Dorothy were getting ready for bed in one of the suites of honor. She put both arms around him suddenly; he pressed her close. "Dick, I belonged there. Beside you. Every fiber of my being belonged there. That was exactly where I belonged." ' "I know you did, sweet. I'll have to admit it. But..." She put her hand over his mouth. "But nothing, my dearest. No buts. I've killed rats and rattlesnakes, and that wasn't any different. Not a bit different in any way." O f the more than five thousand Fenachrone who had left their noisome home planet in Sleemet'a flagship, almost seven hundred had died and more were dying. It was not that the Llurdi were physically cruel to them or abused them in any way. They didn't. Nor were they kind; they were conspicuously and insultingly neutral and indifferent to them. Conspicuous and insulting, that is, to the hypersensitive minds of the captives. In their own minds, the Llurdi were acting strictly according to logic. Every item of the subjects' environment duplicated precisely its twin on the subjects' home world. What more could logically be done? Nothing. The Llurdi observed the mental anguish of the Fenachrone, of course, and recorded their emotions quite accurately, but with no emotional reactions whatever of their own. Practically all emotions were either illogical or unsane, or both. To the illogical and unsane Fenachrone, however -- physically, mentally, intellectually and psychologically -- the situation was intolerable; one that simply could not be endured. They were proud, haughty, intolerant; their race had always been so. Since time immemorial it had been bred into their innermost consciousnesses that they were the questionably to be the absolute rulers of all things living or yet to live throughout all the transfinite reaches of the Cosmic All. Holding this belief with every fiber of their beings, they had been IF plunged instantly into a condition of complete, utter helplessness. Their vessel could not fight. While it was intact except for its tail-section and its power-pods, its every offensive projector was burned out; useless. Nor could they fight personally, either physically or mentally. Their physical strength, enormous as it was, was of no avail against tractors and pressors of pure force; their hardest-driven hypnotic glares were of no avail against the completely logical, completely matter-of-fact minds of the Llurdi. Most galling condition of all, the Fenachrone were not treated as enemies; nor as menaces or threats; nor even as intelligent entities whose knowledges and abilities might be worthy of notice. These things were observed and recorded, to be sure, but only as component parts of a newly discovered class of objects, the Fenachrone; a class of objects that happened to be alive. The Fenachrone were neither more nor less noteworthy than were birds or barnacles. Sleemet, no longer young and perhaps the proudest and most intractable and most intransigent of the lot, could not endure that treatment very long; but he did not bend. The old adage "Where there's life there's hope," simply is not true where such as the Llurdi and the Fenachrone are concerned. Sleemet lost all hope and broke; broke almost completely down. He stopped eating. That did not bother the Llurdi in any way. Why should it? They were neither squeamish nor humane, any more than they were cruel or vindictive. The fact that certain of these creatures stopped taking nourishment under certain conditions was merely a datum to be observed and recorded. But since Sleemet was big and strong, even for a Fenachrone, and had previously eaten very well indeed, it took him a long time to die. And as he weakened -- as the bindings between flesh and spirit loosened more and ever more -- he regressed more and ever more back into the youth of his race. Back and back. Still farther back; back into its very childhood; back to a time when his remote ancestors ate their meat alive and communicated with each other, sometimes by grunts and gestures, but more often by means of a purely mental faculty that was later to evolve into the power of ocular hypnosis. Half conscious or less of his surroundings but knowing well that death was very near, Sleemet halfconsciously sent out his race's agesold mental message-in-extremity of the dying. M arc C. DuQuesne knew vastly more about the Fenachrone than did any other man alive, not excluding Richard Seaton. He and Seaton were, as far as is known, the only two men ever to meet Fenachrone mind to mind and live through the experience; but DuQuesne had been in thought-helmet contact with a Fenachrone much longer and much more intimately and very much more interestedly than Seaton ever had -- because of #I the tremendous intrinsic differences between the personalities of the two men. Seaton, after having crippled a war-vessel of the Fenachrone, had pinned its captain against a wall with so many beams of force that he could not move his head and could scarcely move any other part of his monstrous body. Then, by means of a pair of thought-helmets, he had taken what of that captain's knowledge he wanted. He had, however, handled that horribly unhuman brain very gingerly. He had merely read certain parts of it, as one reads an encyclopedia; at no time had his mind become en rapport with that of the monster. In fact, he had said to Crane: "I'd hate to have much of that brain in my own skull -- afraid I'd bite myself. I'm just going to look... and when I see something I want I'll grab it and put it into my own brain." DuQuesne, however, in examining a navigating engineer of that monstrous race, had felt no such revulsion, contrariwise -- although possibly not quite consciously -- he had admired certain traits of Fenachrone character so much that he had gone en rapport with that engineer's mind practically cell to cell; with the result that he had emerged from that mental union as nearly a Fenachrone himself as a human being could very well become. Wherefore, as DuQuesne in his flying-planetoid-base approached the point of its course nearest to the planet Llurdiax, he began to feel the thinnest possible tendril of thought trying to make contact with one of the deepest chambers of his mind. He stiffened; shutting it off by using automatically an ability that he had not known consciously that he had. He relaxed; and, all interest now, tuned his mind to that feeler of thought, began to pull it in, and stopped -- and the contact released a flood of Fenachrone knowledge completely new to him. A Fenachrone, dying somewhere, wanted... wanted what? Not help, exactly. Notice? Attention? To give something? DuQuesne was not enough of a Fenachrone to translate that one thought even approximately, and he was not interested enough to waste any time on it. It had something to do with the good of the race; that was close enough. DuQuesne, frowning a little, sat back in his bucket seat and thought. He had supposed that the Fenachrone were all dead... but it made sense that Seaton couldn't have killed all of a space-faring race, at that. But so what? He didn't care how many Fenachrone died. But a lot of their stuff was really good, and he certainly hadn't got it all yet, by any means; it might be smart to listen to what the dying monster had to say -- especially since he, DuQuesne, was getting pretty close to the home grounds of Klazmon the Llurd. Wherefore DuQuesne opened his mental shield: and, since his mind was still tuned precisely to the questing wave and since the DQ was now practically as close to Llurdiax as it would get on course #U, he reIF ceived a burst of thought that jarred him to the very teeth. It is amazing how much information can be carried by a Fenachronecompressed burst of thought. It was fortunate for DuQuesne that he had the purely Fenachrone abilities to decompress it, to spread it out and analyze it, and later, to absorb it fully. The salient points, however, were pellucidly clear. The dying monster was First Scientist Fleet Admiral Sleemet; and he and more than four thousand other Fenachrone were helpless captives of and were being studied to death by Llurdan scientists under the personal direction of Llanzlan Klazmon. Realizing instantly what that meant -- Klazmon would be out here in seconds with a probe, if nothing stronger -- DuQuesne slammed on full-coverage screens at full power, thus sealing his entire worldlet bottle-tight against any and every spy-ray, beam, probe, band, zone of force andor order of force that he knew anything about. Since this included everything he had known before this trip began, plus everything he had learned from Freemind One and from the Jelmi and from Klazmon himself, he was grimly certain that he was just as safe as though he were in God's hip pocket from any possible form of threedimensional observation or attack. Cutting in his fourth-dimensional gizmo -- how glad he was that he had studied it so long and so intensively that he knew more about it than its inventors did! -- he flipped what he called its "eye" into the Fenachrone Reservation or distant Llurdiax. He seized Sleemet, bed and all, in a wrapping of force and deposited the bundle gently on the floor of the DQ's control room, practically at his, DuQuesne's feet. Fenachrone could breathe Earth air for hours without appreciable damage -- they had proved that often enough -- and if he decided to keep any of them alive he'd make them some air they liked better. Second, he brought over a doctor, complete with kit and instruments and supplies; and third, the Fenachrone equivalent of a registered nurse. "You, doctor!" DuQuesne snapped, in Fenachronian. "I don't know whether this spineless weakling is too far gone to save or not. Or whether he is worth saving or not. But since he was actually in charge of your expedition-to-preserve-therace I will listen to what he has to say instead of blasting him out of hand. So give him a shot of the strongest stuff you have -- or is he in greater need of food than of stimulant?" DuQuesne did not know whether the doctor would cooperate with a human being or not. But he did -- whether from lack of spirit of his own or from desire to save his chief, DuQuesne did not care enough to ask. "Both," the doctor said, "but nourishment first, by all means. Intravenous, nurse, please," and doctor and nurse went to work with the skill and precision of their highly trained crafts. And, somewhat to DuQuesne's surprise, Sleemet began immediately to rally; and in three-quarters of an hour he had regained full consciousness. CiXTou spineless worm!" Dull Quesne shot at the erstwhile invalid, in true Fenachrone tone and spirit. "You gutless wonder! You pusillanimous weakling, you sniveling coward! Is it the act of a noble of the Fenachrone to give up, to yield supinely, to surrender ignominiously to a fate however malign while a spark of life endures?" Sleemet was scarcely stirred by this vicious castigation. He raised dull eyes -- eyes shockingly lifeless to anyone who had ever seen the ruby-lighted, flame-shot wells of vibrant force that normal Fenachrone eyes were -- and said lifelessly, "There is a point, the certainty of death, at which struggle becomes negative instead of positive. It merely prolongs the agony. Having passed that point, I die." "There is no such point, idiot, while life lasts! Do I look like Klazmon of Llurdiax?" "No, but death is no less certain at your hands than at his." "Why should it be, stupid?" and DuQuesne's sneer was extra-high-voltage stuff, even for Doctor Marc C. DuQuesne. Now was the crucial moment. IF he could .take all those Fenachrone over, and IF he could control them after they got back to normal, what a crew they would make! He stared contemptuously at the ex-admiral and went on: "Whether or not you and your four thousand die in the near future is up to you. While I do not have to have a crew, I can use one efficiently for a few weeks. If you choose to work with me I will, at the end of that time, give you a duplicate of your original spaceship and will see to it that you are allowed to resume your journey wherever you wish." "Sir, the Fenachrone do not... the doctor began stiffly. "Shut up, you poor, dumb clown!" DuQuesne snapped. "Haven't you learned anything? That instead of being the strongest race in space you are one of the weakest? You have one choice merely -- cooperate or die. And that is not yours, but Sleemet's. Sleemet?" "But how do I know that if..." "If you have any part of a brain, fool, use it! What matters it to me whether Fenachrone live or die? I'm not asking you anything; I'm telling you under what conditions I will save your lives. If you want to argue the matter I'll put you three -- and the bed -- back where you were and be on my way. Which do you prefer?" Sleemet had learned something. He had been beaten down flat enough so that he could learn something -- and he realized that he had much to learn from any race who could do what his rescuer had just done. "We will work with you," Sleemet said. "You will, I trust, instruct us concerning how you liberated us three and propose to liberate the others?" "I can't. It was fourth-dimensionIF al translation." DuQuesne lied blandly. "Did you ever try to explain the color 'blue to a man born blind? No scientist of your race will be able to understand either the theory or the mechanics of fourth dimensional translation for something like eleven hundred thousand of your years." DuQuesne and Sleemet E n route to the galaxy in which DuQuesne's aliens supposedly lived, Dorothy said, "Say Dick. I forgot to ask you something. What did you ever find out about that thought business of Kay-Lee's?" "Huh?" Seaton was surprised. "What was there to find out? How are you going to explain the mechanism of thought -- by unscrewing the inscrutable? She said, and I quote, 'We didn't feel that we were quite reaching you,' unquote. So it was she and Ree-Toe Prenk. Obviously. Holding hands or something -- across a Ouija board or some other focusing device, probably. Staring into each other's eyes to link minds and direct the thought." "But they did hit you with something," she insisted, "and it bothers me. They can do it and we can't." "No sweat, pet. That isn't a circumstance to what you do every time you think at a controller to order up a meal or whatever. How do you do that? Different people, different abilities, is all. Anyway, Earth mediums have done that kind of thing for ages. If you're really interested, you can take some time off and learn it, next time we're on Ray-See-Nee. But for right now, my red-headed beauty, we've got something besides that kind of monkey-business to worry about." "That's right, we have," and Dorothy forgot the minor matter in thinking of the major. "Those aliens. Have you and Martin figured out a modus operandi?" "More or less. Go in openly, like tourists, but with everything we've got not only on the trips but hyped up to as nearly absolutely instantaneous reactivity as the Brain can possibly get it." B oth DuQuesne's DQ and Seaton's Skylark of Valeron were within range of Llurdiax. DuQuesne, however. as has been said, was covering up as tightly as he could. Everything that could be muzzled or muffled was muzzled or muffled, and he was traveling comparatively slowly, so as to put out the minimum of detectable high-order emanation. Furthermore, his screens were shoved out to such a tremendous distance, and were being varied so rapidly and so radically in shape, that no real pattern existed to be read. The DQ was not indetectable, of course, but it would have taken a great deal of highly specialized observation and analysis to find her. The Skylark of Valeron, on the other hand, was coming in wide open: "Like a tourist", as Seaton had told Dorothy the plan was to do. In the llanzlanate on Llurdiax, therefore, an observer alerted Klazmon, who flew immediately to his master-control panel. He checked the figures the observer had given him, and was as nearly appalled as a Llurd could become. An artificial structure of that size and mass -- it was certainly not a natural planetoid -- had never even been thought of by any builder of record. He measured its acceleration -- the Val eron was still braking down at max -- and his eyes bulged. That thing, tremendous as it was, had the powerto-mass ratio of a speedster! In spite of its immense size it was actually an inter-galactic flyer! He launched a probe, as he had done so many times before -- but with entirely unexpected results. The stranger's guardian screens were a hundred times as reactive as any known to Llurdan science. He was not allowed time for even the briefest of mental contacts or for any real observation at all. So infinitesimal had been the instant usable time that only one fact was clear. The entities in that mobile monstrosity were -- positively -- Jelmoids. Not true Jelmi, certainly. He knew all about the Jelmi. Those tapes bore unmistakable internal evidence of being true and complete records and there was no hint anywhere in them of anything like this. If not the Jelmi, who? Ah, yes, the Fenachrone, whose fleet... no, Sleemet knew nothing of such a construction... and he was not exactly of the same race... ah, yes, that one much larger ship that had escaped. The probability was high that its one occupant belonged to precisely the same Jelmoid race as did the personnel of this planetoid. The escaped one had reported Klazmon's cursory investigation as an attack. It was a virtual certainty, therefore, that this was a battleship of that race, heading for LIurdiax to... to what? To investigate merely? No. Nor merely to parley. They had made no attempt whatever to communicate. (It did not occur to Klazmon, then or ever, that his own fiercely driven probe could not possibly have been taken for an attempt at communication. He had fully intended to communicate, as soon as he had seized the mind of whoever was in command of the strange spacecraft.) And now, with the stranger's incredible full-coverage screen in operation, communication was and would remain impossible. But he had data sufficient for action. These Jelmoids, like all others he knew, were rabidly anti-social, illogical, unreasoning, unsane and insane. They were -- definitely -- surplus population. So thinking, Llanzlan Klazmon launched his attack. A s the Skylark entered that enigmatic galaxy, Seaton was not in his home, with only a remote-control helmet with which to work. He was in the control room itself, at the base of the Brain, with the tremendously complex-master-control itself surrounding his head. Thus he was attuned to and in instantaneous contact with every activated cell of that gigantic Brain. It was ready to receive and to act upon with the transfinite speed of thought any orIF der that Seaton would think. Nor would any such action interfere in any way with the automatics that Seaton had already set up. "I'm going to stay here all day," Seaton said, "and all night tonight, too, if necessary." But he did not have to stay there even all day. In less than four hours the llanzlan drove his probe and Seaton probed practically instantaneously back. And since Seaton's hyped-up screens were .a hundred times faster than the Llurd's, Seaton "saw" a hundred times as much as Klazmon did. He saw the city Llurdias in all its seat-of-empire pride and glory. He perceived its mileswide girdle of fortresses. He perceived the llanzlanate; understood its functions and purposes. He entered the Hall of Computation and examined minutely the beings and the machines at work there. How could all this be? Because the speed of thought, if not absolutely infinite, is at least transfinite; immeasurable to man. And the Valeron's inorganic brain and Seaton's organic one were, absolutely and super-intimately, the two component parts of one incredibly able, efficient and proficient whole. Thus, when the alien's attack was launched in all its fury and almost all of the Valeroris mighty defensive engines went simultaneously into automatic action, the coded chirpings that the Brain employed to summon human help did not sound: that Brain's builder, fellow, boss, and perfect complement was already on the job. And thus, since no warning had been given, the other Skylarkers were surprised when Seaton called them all down into the control room. They were even more surprised when they saw how white and strained his face was. "This may become weree unfunny," he said. "'Tsa good thing I muscled her up or we'd be losing some skin and some of our defense. As it is, we're holding 'em and we've got a few megas in reserve. Not enough to be really happy about, but some. And we're building more, of course. However , that ape down there has undoubtedly got a lot of stuff otherwheres on the planet that he can hook in pretty fast, so whatever we're going to do we'd better do right now." "They didn't try to communicate at all?" Crane asked. "Strange for a race of such obviously high attainments." "Not a lick," Seaton said, flatly. "Just a probe; the hardest and sharpest probe I ever saw. When I blocked it -- Whammo !" "You probed, too, of course," Dorothy said. "What did you find out? Are they really monstrous, as DuQuesne said, out purely to kill?" "Just that. He wasn't lying a nickel's worth on that. His Nibs down there had already decided that we were surplus population and should be eliminated, and he set right out to do it. So, unless some of you have some mighty valid reasons not to, I'm going to try my damndest to eliminate him, right now." "We could run, I suppose," Margaret suggested -- but not at all enthusiastically. "I doubt it. Not without letting him burn us down to basketball size, like the Chlorans did. He undoubtedly let us get this close on purpose so we couldn't." S ince no one else said anything, Seaton energized everything of offense he had. He tuned it as precisely as he possibly could. He as : sembled it into the tightest, solidest, hardest beam he could possibly build. Then, involuntarily tensing his muscles and hunching his back, he drove the whole gigantic thing squarely at where he knew the llanzlante was. The Llurd's outer screen scarcely flickered as it went black in nothing flat of time. The intermediate screen held for eighty-three hundredths of a second. Then the practically irresistible force of that beam met the practically immovable object that was Klazmon's last line of defense. And as it clawed and bit and tore and smashed in ultra-pyrotechnic ferocity, solar-like flares of raw energy erupted from the area of contact and the very ether writhed and seethed and warped under the intolerable stresses of the utterly incomprehensible forces there at grips. This went on... and on... and on. Even to Seaton, who knew only that he was up against an enemy nearly as potent as the Chlorans, the full import of the enormous struggle of energies then being waged was far from clear. We can wonder now, and ask ourselves what the fate of the universe might have been if the Skylark's Norlaminian designers had skimped on a course of screens, or overlooked a detail of defense. Surely its consequences would have been cataclysmic! Not only to Seaton and his Skylarker, watching grim-faced as their gauges revealed the enormous flow of destructive forces battling each other to annihilation for countless parsecs in every direction. Not only to the Jelmi, or the RaySee-Neese, or the Norlaminians, or Earth itself... but to countless generations yet unborn, on planets not yet discovered... But they held. And after ten endless minutes of such terrible gouts and blasts of destruction as no planet could endure for a moment, Seaton heard a voice speak to him. He had never heard it before, but it said in good American English: "Good morning, my friends. Or perhaps, by your clocks, it is good afternoon? I am the Llanzlan Mergon of Jelm, and I perceive that you are under attack by our old acquaintances, the Llurdi. You, I am sure, are the Seatons and the Cranes, about whom we heard so much on Earth, but whom we were not able to find." IF The Place Where Readers And Editor Meet... Dear Editor: I expect you'll get a fairly large amount of correspondence about Mr. R. Milton's letter concerning Esperanto; the issue seems to be one in which a large number of people are interested (as both John Campbell and Willy Ley have found out in the past). I agree with Mr. Milton wholeheartedly. One of the problems to which he refers, that of the ordinary non-English-speaker who has studied English being too timid or embarrassed to use it in front of a native English-speaker, is well known to me from personal experience. My wife, who comes from Mexico City, had a year of English in high school and in addition has lived in the U.S.A. for two years. One would think that after that much time she would be fairly confident, but actually she has that same problem attributed by Mr. Milton to so many other people. If this is the case with someone who has used only English for the last two years (and who in addition is a bright girl with something of a head for languages), consider the poor European student who has studied English for four or five years, five to ten hours a week, and can now read a technical paper in the language -- but has never really had occasion to speak it. I also agree with Mr. Milton' proposed solution to the problem. Esperanto was constructed with two basic ideas in mind: facility and beauty. Those who have studied it history will tell you that it is a work more of art than of science -- although what is art but a science of esthetics? It might take two or three minutes to learn the full conjugation yt an Esperanto verb. What other language can even come close to that? As to the nouns and adjectives -- put together, they might ake thirty seconds; try learning how to decline all English nouns, singular or plural, nominative and genitive, in thirty seconds. Or thirty hours. Esperanto has its own literature, original as well as translated; and its own speaking population; and the governments of several countries consider it worthy of governmentsubsidized magazines. It seems to be catching on all over the world now. Even in the United States there is at least one school system in which it is taught in all (#). schools. -- Donald J. Harlow, College View Apartments B-#-C, College Station, Texas.    Dear Editor: There are many things that can be said about If that would be approving, but I will limit most of this letter to some complaints that I have been saving up for some time now. The first one concerns the printing of your magazine (here I must also include Galaxy and Worlds of Tomorrow ) . Many of the pages have been over-inked so that they are difficult to read. Number two: the paper you have been using is very poor. Some of the issues I have from early in the fifties are in better shape than those of only three or four years of age. Finally: although readers are continually writing in and gushing about the quality of the artwork of your covers, I have to disagree. Looking through all the back issues of your magazines, I found only one that is really good and that possesses a feeling outside of the text it illustrates. I'm speaking of the cover by McKenna on the June, #, issue Of Galaxy, depicting a ruined spaceship against the background of a spiral galaxy. I will cease my disapprobations here and try to put down some of the conflagration I have started by saying that I buy and read all three of your publications, and especially enjoy If... for the quality of the paper stories are printed on has little to do with their merit. But when the stories are so good, it is all the more important that one oe able to preserve them in readable condition. Robert A. Heinlein should be out with a new one sometime soon -- he usually gets out two new books each year. I'd certainly like to see If get it. -- James M. Gale, # Portland Avenue. Charlotte #, North Carolina.  We like a letter like this; it gives us something to sink our teeth into. First about the printing and production: we've had some difficulties along that line, but we hope to improve things shortly. About the covers: There's an interesting thing about that cover you mention. We thought it was great too. Everybody in the office who saw it agreed it was a fine job -- which seldom happens. Nearly every reader who has commented on covers in the past year or two has mentioned it as one they liked. There is no doubt that in terms of expressed opinion it was one of the most popular covers we've ever run... and yet (we'll let you in on a trade secret) it had the worst sale of any issue over a threeyear period. If you know why, please tell us -- we don't. But one thing we do know, and that is that the covers that people like are not necessarily the covers that make them buy. And of course if we have to choose between one or the other -- there's no choice! Yes, we'd like to see us have Robert Heinlein's new book for you too. There is one, as you deduce, and we hope to have it; but there are a few problems. One is that at present the manuscript runs about as long as three ordinary science-fiction novels ! -- Editor.    Dear Editor: Since I now count # rejection IF slips from , I figure an easy way to get published is to write a letter to Hue  Cry. There are two things I want to say to reader David Lyon. As a high-school student, I resent being compared with "beer slops". Among high-school students science fiction -- not monster stories! -- is greatly loved. After all, what other genre has produced anything to compare with Canticle for Leibo witz? Secondly, the story Mr. Lyon was looking for is The Silk and the Song . Congrats on the long-awaited Skylark DuQuesne! It's as good as the three previous Skylarks; maybe better. Looking forward to the next two installments. -- S. Alan Simon, # Garland Drive, Eggertsville, New York #.    Dear Editor: I've a few money-making suggestions for you. Firstly, why not sell enlarged -- say, # x # -- color reproductions of your covers, suitable for framing, minus the print, of course. Secondly, so far as I know, no one has ever printed a sciencefiction fan's calendar. It should be an easy enough matter to print one with a cover or interior illustration for each month. Possibly an almanac calendar showing the birthdays of top-notch Science-fiction writers. Thirdly, you could sell binders for storing back issues of , Galaxy and World# of Tomorrow . H. L. Gold used to do that when he was editor, didn't he? Maybe these ideas don't hold water, but if they do you're welcome to them. -- Brian Baldwin, # Harding Road, Chattanooga #, Texas.  Matter of fact, we have thought about a calendar from time to time. Wonder how many would be interested. -- Editor .    Dear Editor: chine was a good story, may e somewhat better than Starchild. I'm not sure, but I think youVe set a record of some kind with five excellent issues in a row, from cover to editorial -- including the stories. Keep it up! Why not try to squeeze a story out of Harlan Ellison? His type of writing fits your magazine to a T, and you'll have some one to compete with Keith Laumer to see who can kill the most people in one story. -- A. J. Spegel, #I Anderson Road, Linwood, Michigan.    Dear Editor: I am not a habitual writer of letters to sf magazines even though I am a habitual reader... but the moon is full... I personally am unconcerned about the demise of Outer Limits and its ilk on television. Television is a medium particularly unsuited to the freedom that science fiction demands and would not know what to do with that freedom even if it had it. I understand, though, that an sf show called Lost in Space will be on one of the networks next season, so video sf is not dead. I was skeptical about the new Skylark story; I don't like to admit it, but I could never get too excited over either the Lensman or Skylark stories. Nevertheless, Part I of Skylark DuQuesne does have a certain something... It also has Doc Smith's ridiculous conversation. Every time Dick Seaton opens his mouth I wince. Concerning book reviews : I belong to that breed of neurotics that enjoys reading book reviews. Algis Budrys in Galaxy is good but not long enough for my taste. There must be somebody you could get for . James H. Schmitz is becoming one of the most ubiquitous names in magazine science fiction. His stories keep you reading, but after you've finished you wish you hadn't wasted the time. Maybe he should go into television. -- Ed Brenner, # Richmond Street, Brooklyn, New York  '   Dear Editor: I just finished reading Robert F. Young's When Time Was Young in the December issue of your magazine. For the most part the sf stories I have read involving paleontology have testified to a certain amount of research on the part of the author. Mr. Young's story (possibly though up while escorting two small children through a natural history museum) bespeaks no such effort May I suggest some study of the temporal and geographic ranges of the genre whose names he throws about wth such authority One thing to be said in Mr. Young's favor. At least he didn't clutter the Upper Cretaceous landscape with Lepidodenarons , seed ferns and Calamites. This is not the case with your cover artist, who has some pretty unCretaceous plants in the background and has put three toes on the Tyrannosaurus' two large front feet. -- Bonnie Dalzell, Student Paleontologist, University of California at Berkeley, #C#I Berkeley Way, Berkeley, California.    Dear Editor: With all this fuss about sf on TV, I don't think anybody's been considering the reporting of space flights. I urge all fans to write to the network news sections calling for a science-fiction writer to be present at coverage of future launches. It would, I think, make the commentary much more interesting... and might bring a few mo r e converts around to sf. Anybody interested in forming a club of young science-fiction fans is urged to write either to me or Sheridan Simon, # Garland Drive, Eggertsville, New York #. Finally, when is C. C. MacApp going to write a sequel to Under the Gaddyl t in the April, #, issue of Worlds of Tomorrow ? -- James Edward Turner, P. #. Box #, Pilot Knob, Missouri, #.  Matter of fact, we requested permission once to view a manned launching and were turned down flat. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration appears to feel that the less truck they have with science fiction, the more easily they'll be able to get crazy appropriations from congressmen who may be a little suspicious of all this crazy space business in the first place. We have an idea that the TV networks would have the same reaction... but it's a good idea anyway ! That winds us up for another month. All you fellows who have been writing in demanding a Retief novel -- don't forget we've got one starting next month! This month's "First" -- i. e., first story publication for another new science-fiction writer -- is Dannie Plachta's Alien Artifact . We have one of these every issue, you know. Maybe one of these days it'll be yours    The Editor IF Your Subscription Is Your Private Window On the stars in our galaxy The only thing we know about tomorrow is that it has its roots today And out of the fantastic facts of today's scientific wonders Galaxy's all-star lineup of contributors weave stories that are sometimes wry, sometimes terrifying -- but always a delight to read Would you like to join us, next issue and every issue thereafter for years to come, on this fascinating exploration of the fears and foibles of tomorrow? All it takes is a check, a stamp and a minute of your time. (If you prefer not to tear the coupon out of your magazine, just give us the information requested on a plain piece of paper.) From then on the mails will bring Galaxy to your door, with the best stories being written by the best science-fiction writers of all time. Here are some of the famous stories that appeared in Galaxy in its first fifteen years. Will the next fifteen years be as good? Frankly, we don't think so. We think they'll be better!  Galaxy Publishing Corp. #I Hudson Street New York, N.Y. # Ye  start my subscription to Galaxy right away. I enclose P my check or money order for: O # issues for #  # issues for #  Name          Address #       City  State Zip Code U.S. only. Add #c per issue foreign postage. Please check whether Q new or Q renewal. aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa Baby Is Three Theodore Sturgeon The Ballad of Lost C'Mell Cordwainer Smith The Big Time Fritz Leiber The Caves of Steel Isaac Asimov Day After Doomsday Poul Anderson The Demolished Man Alfred Bester Do I Wake or Dream? Frank Herbert The Dragon Masters Jack Vance The Fireman (Farenheit #S#) Ray Bradbury Gravy Planet (The Space Merchants ) Pohl  Kornbluth Here Gather the Stars (Way Station ) Clifford D. Simak Home from the Shore Gordon R. Dickson Hot Planet Hal Clement King of the City Keith Laumer Mindswap Robert Sheckley Med Ship Man Murray Leinster The Men in the Walls The Old Die Rich H. L. Gold The Puppet Masters Robert A. Heinlein Surface Tension James Blish The Visitor at the Zoo Damon Knight Wind between the Worlds Lester del Rey its vividly real telepathic society, detailed so ingeniously and dramatically that, finishing the book, you'll find it hard to believe that society doesn't exist -- yet ! regular price, plus ## for postage and handling. Supplies are limited ! Send your order in immediately! (Use Coupon or Separate Sheet) Please #I Hudson St. rush me New York  copies of #, The Original Edition -- Complete I Not A Low Cost Reprint -- Yet Yours For Only #I Plus Postage #t Addres I Enclose. State.  October # # Earth's most unpredictable diplomat  Takes on a planet of living machines! Your Subscription is Your Private Window On Baby is Three Theodore Sturgeon The Ballad of Lost CMell Cordwoiner Smith The Big Time Fritz Leiber The Coves of Steel Isaac Asimov The only thing we know about tomorrow is that it has its roots today. And out of the fantastic facts of today's scientific wonders Gaiaxy's all-star lineup of contributors weave stories that are sometimes wry, sometimes terrifying -- but always a delight to read. Would you like to join us, next issue and every issue thereafter for years to come, on this fascinating exploration of the fears and foibles of tomorrow? All it takes is a check, a stamp and a minute of your time. (If you prefer not to tear the coupon out of your magazine, just give us the information requested on a plain piece of paper.) From then on the mails will bring Galaxy to your door, wih the best stories being written by the best science-fiction writers of all time. Here are some of the famous stories that appeared in Galaxy in its first fifteen years. Will the next fifteen years be as good? Frankly, we don't think so. We think they'll be better! Med Ship Man Murray Leinster The Men in the Walls The Old Die Rich H. L. Gold The Puppet Masters Robert A. Heinlein Surface Tension James Blish The Visitor at the Zoo Damon Knight Wind between the Worlds Lester del Rey Day After Doomsday Poul Anderson The Demolished Man Alfred Bester Do f Wake or Dream? Frank Herbert The Dragon Masters Jack Vance The Fireman (Farenheit #S#) Ray Bradbury Gravy Planet (The Space Merchants; Pohl  Kornbluth Here Gather the Stars (Way Station) Clifford D. Simak Home from the Shore Gordon R. Dickson Hot Planet Hal Clement King of the City Keith Laumer Mindswap Robert Sheckley Vol. #, No. # Prederik PoM, Editor David Potion, ProdacHon Mgr Robert M. Guinn, Publisher Diene Sullivan, Associate Editor Mavis Fisher, Subs. Mgr, IF published monthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, Robert M. Guinn, President, Vol, #, No. #. Main Office; #I Hudson Street, New York #, New York. #c per copy. Subscriptions # issues # in the United States, Canada, AAexico, South America and Central America and U.S. possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All rights, including translations reserved. All material submitted must be accompanied by seif-addressed stamped envelope. Tbe publisher assumes no responsibility  unsolicited material. All stories cnw fiction, and ony similarity between characters ind actual persons is ooinddentaL Printed in the U. S. A. by ibe Guinn Compony, New Yodi VL H. IF  Editorial Where are T he other day an editor from a national news magazine called up to find out what he could about the present activities of some f the Grand Old Names of science fiction. What he had in mind was a idebar to run in connection with a story on Kariner IV and its Mars photographs, and what he wanted to do was tell about what science fiction's old masters were doing these days. "What about Doc Smith?" he aaked. "His newest story, Skylark DvjQuesne, is running currently in If," said we. "A. E. Van Vogt?" ntributing regularly to the same magazine." "Well, how about Isaac Aafanov?" "Got a couple of his storlea, too -- one in the October Maxy, one a little later." "Heinlein?" "Oh, sure -- his next series will start off # for us." And so it went. Murray Leinster, Philip Jose Farmer -- all the big names of some decades ago; if they were still alive, they were still writing science fiction. (When the sidebar finally appeared, it had only two names, Hugo Gernsback and Horace Gold -- and as a matter of fact, we have a Horace Gold story coming up in Galaxy too!) There was a superstition current a few years ago that most of sciencefiction's best writers had given up the field in favor of greener pastures. It may even have been true -- briefly. But the record shows that it certainly isn't true any more! A ctually something has been happening among science-fiction's top writers, however. The greener they now ? pastures are there, and the sf authors have been grazing in them. Robert Bloch, Harlan Ellison, Jerome Bixby, Ray Bradbury, Arthur C. Clarke and a few others are finding their time more and more taken up with writing motion-picture and television scripts. Major magazines like Playboy and Holiday have preempted a lot of the working time of writers like Alfred Bester, Algis Budrys, Frank M. Robinson and so on. A fair proportion of those with son, Isaac Asimov, Cordwainer Smith, John R. Pierce and James V. McConnell, for instance -- are putting in most of their effort on teaching, or research, or factual science writing; and even the relatively simon-pures, like Robert A. Heinlein and the undersigned, find their time more and more occupied with participating in seminars, making radio and TV appearances. But let no one wonder where science fiction's great writers of yesteryear may be. Nearly all of them -- plus a great deal of new blood, as witness our "Firsts" -- are right at their typewriters right now, writing science fiction. It may not pay off as well in gold or glory as other pursuits open to them, but it has its advantages. First, it has the most alert audience in the world. Second, it is what they do best. And third -- it is the only kind of writing that imposes no tabus or restrictions of its own. In science fiction, the sky's no limit -- and that's why there will never be a lack of talented and capable writers for it! Secrets entrusted to a few lulnpuJCiM#aetiofMf be generally told -- things you ought to know. Great truths are dangerous to some -- but factors for personal power and accomplishment in the hands of those who understand them. Behind the tales of the miracles and mysteries of the ancients, lie centuries of their secret probing into nature's laws -- their amazing discoveries of the hid den processes of mans mind, and the mastery of lifers problems. Once shrouded in mystery to avoid their destruction by mass fear and ignorance, these facts remain a useful heritage for the thousands of men and women who privately use them in their homes tooay. The Rosicrucians (not a religious  Rosicrucians (AM organization) an age-old bfodiechood of learning, have preserved this secret wisdom in their ardirres for centuries. They now invite you to share the practical helpfulness m their toachss Write today for a free copy of me book, 'The Mastery of Lifo. Widiln its pages may lie a new life of opporScribe C.TJ, San Jose, California # Please send me the free boolc The Mastery of Ufe, which oains how I may leun co use my facaltics and powca of mind. IManwt City Zip Coda First of Three Parts IF  Serial Nice planefi The natives were half machines -- the government was halt dead -- and the Terrans were halt out of their minds! I J ame Retief, Second Secretary and Consul of the Terrestrial Embassy to Quopp, paused in his stroll along the Twisting Path of Sublime Release He admired the blaze of early morning sunlight on the stained glass window of a modest grog shop wedged between a stall with a sign in jittery native script announcing Bargain Prices in Cuticula Inlays, and the cheery facade of The Idle Hour Comfort Station, One Hundred Stalls, No Waiting. He took out a long cigar of the old-fashioned type still hand-rolled on Jorgensen's Worlds. He glanced back along the steep, narrow street. Among the pina -- members of a hundred related native species mingling freely here in the Great Market of Ixix -- the four Terrans who had been trailing him for the past half hour stood out drably. Retief drew on the cigar, savoring the aroma, turned and stepped through the low arch into the tavern. From a high stool within the raised ring-bar at the center of the gaily lit chamber, the bar keeper -- a medium-sized, short-abdomened individual of the Herpp tribe, with chipped wing-cases of faded baby blue and four dextrous arms of bristly wine-red, on one of which a Terr an wristwatch was strapped -- manipulated the controls of the dispenser console. He exchanged banter with the customers, made change and kept a pair of eyes on the free lunch simultaneously. As he saw Retief, he tilted his anterior antennae in friendly greeting. "I am Gom-Goo, and I dance the dance of welcome," he susurrated in Quopp trade dialect, his voice reminiscent of fingernails on a blackboard. "What'll it be, Retief?" "I'm Retief, and I dance the dance of Glad Arrival," the diplomat replied in the same tongue. "How about a shot of Bacchus brandy?" "Red or black?" "Black." The other customers made room as Retief moved up, undipped a carefully charred wooden bowl from the serving panel, got it under the proper bright-plated nozzle just in time to catch the tarcolored syrup as it jetted forth. "That's pretty good stuff," GomGoo said. He lowered his voice. "But for a real kick, you ought to try a shot of Hellrose -- cut ten to one. of course. That'll put a charge om your plates." "I tried it once. We Terries liki our sugar fermented." "Sourballs?" The Herpp indicated an assortment of pea-sized lumps of yellow, white, purple and green. Retief shook his head. 'T prefer salt peanuts to saltpetre," he confided. "Well, every tribe to its own poison." "Here's oil in your crankcase, Retief toasted formally, nibbling the brandy. "Oil," Gom-Goo responded. "Yo haven't been in lately, Retief. Been dormant?" "No more than usual, Gom-Gov Ambassador Longspoon's been uposing non-union hours on the staff. I'm afraid. Wouldn't do to let the Groaci steal a march on us and get a Bolshoi-type ballet theatre built before we can get a Yankee-stadium type sports arena off the drawing board." G om-Goo worked his dorsal mandibles in the gesture that expressed courteous skepticism. "Frankly, Retief, we Quoppina aren't much interested in watching Terries hobble around. After all, with only two legs and no wings..." "I know; but it's traditional in these diplomatic competitions to build something conspicuously inappropriate." Gom-Goo tilted his oculars toward the door, where a pair of Quoppina with highly polished black carapacos were rolling past, twirling night-sticks. "Speaking of Terry programs, Retiet, just between you and me, what's behind this business of buffing up these Voion ne'er-do-wells and setting them to cruising the streets waving clubs at the rest of us?" "Well, Gom-Goo, it appears that in some quarters the view is held that you Quoppina are a little too fond of brawling, anarchy and duelling in the streets to qualify as natural democrats. Ergo, a native police force." "Uh-huh. But why pick the Voion for the job? Their tribe's made its Kving by waylaying honest Quoppina in the back alleys ever since the Great Egg first hatched." A heavy foot clumped behind Retief. He turned to find the four Terrans ringing him in, ominous expressions on their weathered features. "We're just in from the Trading Post at Rum Jungle," the lean, scarfaced member of the quartet said flatly. "We want to have a little talk with you. Mister." He put his left fist carefully against the palm of his right hand and twisted it, looking around nervously. Retief nodded. "Go ahead," he said pleasantly. A large man with thick, protuberant ears and thin sandy hair eased the scarred man aside. "Not in this dump," he said in a voice like a cannonball rolling downstairs. "Outside." "If it's a private matter, maybe you'd better drop by my office." "We already been to the Embassy. Talked to some bird named Magnan," the big man said. "He accd like his lace drawers was itching him; no joy there." #Ton't argue with this chump, JLy Big Leon," a squatty fellow with a bluish chin and a steel front tooth advised. "Bring him along." The bartender leaned over and buzzed sharply. "My name is GomGoo," he stated. "I danctk -- " "Better get your wiring checked, low-pockets," Scar-face cut him off. "Sounds like you got a short in your talk-box." He jerked his head at Retief. "Let's walk Mister." "I haven't quite finished my drink," Retief said mildly. "Why don't you go stand outside? I'll be along presently." The fourth man, yet to be heard from, edged closer. "Ah, sir, we have a problem," he began. "We -- " "Skip it Jerry," Scar-face snapped. He hooked a thumb over his shoulder, glowered at Retief. "Outside, you, like Big Leon said." "Sorry," Retief said. "Some other time, maybe." Scar-face narrowed his eyes, reached a large-knuckled hand for Relief's collar; Retief leaned aside, caught the hand and flipped it over, his fingers against the palm, his thumb against the scarred knuckles. He doubled it back over the wrist and Scar-face went to his knees with a yowl. Retief tsked. "A very poor lead. Lefty," he said reproachfully. "It's a good thing I wasn't an enemy of yours." "Hey," the big man said stepping in. "Let him up." Retief looked at the wide face IF that to-i' c ! mx il.ice by an inch. "Why ao liicy caii you Big Leon?" Big Leon set himselt. "Pul Seymour down and I'll show you," he frated. Relief shifted his grip, lifted the carred man clear off the floor, hoisted him chest-high. "Here you have him," he offered, and tossed him at the big man. Leon staggered hack, oed, thrust Seymour aside, frowned, doubled a large fist and moved in. There was a shrill rasp of sound. A thick, five-foot Quoppina with a glistening black carapace decked out in elaborate silver ornaments rolled between Relief and Big Leon. "Outside, foreign grubs!" the intruder keened. He waved a long billy-club of black wood and jabbed it at the scar-faced man, who had tumbled to his feet. There were other club-wielders behind the first -- two, three, half a dozen or more, all wearing the new black and silver Federal Police. The Voion captain waved his palps, giving Relief a glimpse down a yellow-green throat set with silvery needles. "All of you are under arrest," he rasped. "Place your manipulative members above your sense-organ clusters and proceed hence!" "What's the charge?" Relief asked in the Voion dialect. "Trespassing in forbidden territory, alien. Not that it matters! The example may remind your fellows to remain in the ghetto graciously assigned to them by the indulgence of the Planetary Government!" "Just a minute," tim bar-keeper interrupted from his perch above. "I am Gom-Goo and -- " "Silence, panderer to alien perversions," the Voion snapped. "Or Til find dungeon space for you, too!" T he other Voion were unlimbering clubs now. Over their heads Relief caught Big Leon's eye, jerked his head minutely to the right; the big man narrowed his eyes, nodded quickly. As the Voion before Retief brought his club back for a jab to the sternum, Leon reached, caught the alien by the upper pair of arms, lifted him clear of the floor, whirled him and slammed him at his fellows. Two of them went over with a crash. Retief spun, intercepted an eager junior closing in from the left, caught him by his vestigal wingcases, sent him reeling back to collide with his partner as Scar-face feinted, twisted the club from the two-pronged grip of the nearest cop, ducked and jammed it through the spokes of the alien's yard-high main wheels. The victim stopped with a screech and a twanging of broken spokes. Big Leon met a second charging Voion with a roundhouse swipe, yelled as his fist glanced off the armored thorax, then landed a blow that spim the creature aside just as the sole undamaged Voion struck Big Leon a vicious blow behind the ear. Leon turned with a roar, picked up the cop bodily and slammed him against the bar-keeper's podium. "Here!" the bar-keeper shrilled. "I am Gom-Goo and I dance the Dance of Distress!" "Let's get out of here!" Scarface IF panted. He ducked aside as a Voion's club whistled, charged for the door. Quoppina of all sizes and colors scattered before him. Leon aimed a blow at the cop renewing the attack. Jerry took the arm of the fourth Tcrran, staggering from a bloody cut across the scalp, and plunged through the crowd. Retief, backed against the podium by the last two Voion till in action, keeping their distance and swinging their clubs in whistling arcs, plucked a tall bottle from a display, got in a hearty crack across the head of one as Gom-Goo leaned down and laid the other out. "Retief!" the Horpp called above the chatter of the clientel who had been enjoying the free show. "I am Gom-Goo and I dance the Dance of Apology." "This dance is on me," Retief panted. "I think I'd better be off now, Gom-Goo. Sorry about the damages." "It was entirely the fault of Jfiese acks-in-office." The bartender clashed his wingcase in agitation. 'Interfering in a friendly dispute among cash customers! Yum-TukI" He signalled to his two table waiters. "Haul these Voion trouble-makers out into the alley, to survive or not, just as they please." He leaned over to eye the one Big Leon had thrown against the podium. "As for this fellow, stuff him in the incinerator. He's shouldered his last free citizen off the parking-ledge." "We'd better dust. Mister," Leon aid. "That Bug was a cop and he's got plenty of pals." There was a distant clanging of gongs. "You'd best transfer the scene of your diversions elsewhere for the nonce, Retief," Gom-Goo called. "One of these spoil-sports has summoned his fellow blackguards." "We were just leaving. Thanks for tapping that last fellow; he was getting too close for comfort." "My pleasure, Retief. The rascals have been getting pushier by the day. They're up to something, mark my words! And remember: After the wheels, the juncture between the parietal plates is the best spot to go for on a Voion." "I'll remember that. Ta-ta." II I n a quieter grog shop half a mile from the scene of the action, Rctief and the four Terrans found a table at the back of the room from which they could keep an eye on the street. Through the wide, doorless arch, Voion cops could be seen hurrying past, grim and businesslike in their black and silver trappings. Big Leon blew on his skinned fist, looked at Retief almost shyly. "Sorry about the rough stuff, uh. Mister, uh..." "Retief. No apology needed. I see now why they call you Big Leon." Leon nodd. "You looked pretty good in there yourself. Mister. Maybe those Bugs'll think about it before they tackle another bunch of Terries." "What's got into them Bugs?" the scarred man demanded. "They been giving us a hard time out in the field, but I figured they'd be minding their manners here in town." "That's what we came here to talk about," Big Leon said. "Something's stirring the Voion tribe up. I thought it was just us planters and traders they were out to get, but they've got the whole town sewed up like a dead sailor." "We pretty near didn't get into the city," the steel-toothed man said. "There's a patrol around the port. A man could get the idea he wasn't welcome." "The new police force was designed to bring law and order to Quopp," Retief said. "According to the official T.O. there are supposed to be no more than a hundred of them assigned to the city, with smaller detachments at the major trading towns." "A hundred my Uncle Edgar," Leon growled. "ITie whole town's swarming with 'em -- and there must be another ten thousand between here and Rum Jungle." "Yes, I'd say our friends the Voion have answered the call to civic duty in surprising numbers," Retief said. "They say Longspoon's the one behind it," Scarface said. "Someboys are on." "The motivation of the diplomat is an enigma that even his best friend, if he had one, would be hard put to define," Retief confided. "Technically, the Corps Diplomatique Terrestrienne is dedicated to the protection of Terran interests. Galaxy-wide. Of course, figuring out what those interests really are can get a little complicated." "Like equipping local cops with clubs to pound Terry heads, using fees squeezed out of Terry businessmen," Seymour growled. "What does the Corps want here, anyway?" Leon demanded. "Quopp was doing all right -- with a little help from Terry free enterprise. Johnnies getting everything organized, and all of a sudden us Terries are undesirable aliens." R etief refilled glasses. "Admittedly, some of the measures selected by our Chief of Mission may seem paradoxical at first glance. But that's just because you haven't entered into the spirit of the game. All of the measures Ambassador Longspoon has taken -- restrictions on private enterprise by Terrans, establishment of the Planetary Police, free goods for the indigent, subsidies for Voion commercial enterprise, and the rest -- are designed to bring peace and plenty to the downtrodden locals whom you fellows have been exploiting." "What do you mean, exploiting?" Big Leon's fist hit the table. "Why, a hundred years ago, when the first Terries hit Quopp, there was nothing here but wild Bugs living in grass huts and eating each other. We laid out the towns, built trails, started 'em in on a little cottage industry and inter-tribal trade. We brought in electronics men to be country G.P.'s, developed new lines of merchandise to make life more beautiful for the Quopp in the street and taught 'em the idea of civilization. Sure, we made a good profit -- but they've gotten their money's worth!" IF "Still, Leon, now that you've put Quopp on the star maps, competition has set in. Our friends the Groaci aren t going to let this world drift into the Terry camp without a struggle. They've set up a string of trading posts along the other coast of Continent One, and they're doing a brisk trade in miniature Tri-D's, artificial limbs and wheels, electronic Mah Jong sets -- " "Direct competition with usi" Jerry burst out. "The copycats!" "Of course," Retief went on, "no self-respecting diplomat could let the challenge pass without making an effort to out-enlighten the opposition. Whatever the Groaci do, we have to do bigger." "Why?" Seymour grunted. iilllhy does a golfer have to hit the golf ball?" Retief riposted. "Such is the challenge of diplomacy." "But why this sudden compulsion to unite the planet under a single government? -- and with the Voion in charge, of all people!" Jerry looked indignant. "You know we can't even travel inland to look over the markets?" Big Leon said. "You know why? The Voion. They're all over like a land-lubber's lunch -- waving clubs and telling its where we can and can't go!" "Longspoon's making a mistake, backing the Voion," Big Leon said. "There's not a bug on the planet doesn't hate their main windings. Slaves and dope-runners, con artists, highway robbers and second-story men -- that's what they were, until this idea of reforming 'em and putting badges on 'em came along." "His Excellency envisions the day when a trained cadre of reformed Voion will lead the newly enlightened masses to a new era of planetary unity," Retief explained. "Or so he frequently says." "Retief, how long you been here on Quopp?" Leon inquired. "Only a few weeks. I'm afraid." "You talk the dialects pretty good." "I've spent a few hours on the encephalotapes." "Uh-huh," Leon nodded. "Well, I was born here, Retief. Hell, I haven't been off the planet half a dozen times in my life. And I can tell you -- these devils have got something up their sleeve!" "I'm inclined to agree. Their police badges seem to have gone to their heads." "It ain't just that," Seymour said. "There's something in the wind! We saw it, out in the jungle -- and now here in town! It's getting ready to pop! Pushing Terries around -- that's bad medicine. Mister!" "And I'll tell you something else," the steel-toothed man said. "Those the port -- in broad daylight!" Retief frowned. "You're sure of that?" "Been down to the port lately?" Big Leon inquired. "Not in the past month." "Come on," Leon rose. "Let's go ment on the pad right now big enough to put half the Terries on Quopp out of business." As he stood, Bibliography: The Natural History oi Refief's War is the nineteenth story in the galaxy-girdling exploits of science-fiction's most celebrated interstellar diplomat -- and the first full-length novel. By request of a number of readers, here is the full list of Retief's previous adventures: Magazine Title Issue Book Title Aide Memoire July, # same  Castle of Light, The Oct., # same  City That Grew in the Sea, The Mar., # Wicker Wonderland  Cultural Exchange Sept., # same  Desert and the Stars, The Nov., # Protest Note  Diplomate at Arms Jan., # . Frozen Planet, The Sept., #I Courier  Gambler's World Nov., #I Palace Revolution  Giant Killer Sept., # -- Governor of Glove, The Nov., # Native Intelligence  Madman from Earth, The Mar., # Policy  Mightiest Qorn, July, # Ultimatum  Prince and the Pirate, The Aug., # same  Relief, God-Speaker Jan., # The Brass God  Relief of the Red-Tape MountainMay, # Sealed Orders  Retief's War (current) -- Saline Solution Mar., # same  Trick or Treaty Aug., # -- Yllian Way, The Jan., # Protocol   Included in Envoy to New Worlds, Aoe Books. #. Included in Gatactic Diplomat, Doubleday  Co., Inc., #.  Only Relief story not first published in if; appeared In Fantastie. Note: We do not have copies of the Relief book collections, nor of the magazine containing Diplomat at Arms. However any back issue of If from #-# inclusive may be obtained at #c each, # for #, regardless of original cover price, postpaid, by writing: Back issue Department, If, #I Hudson Street, New York, N. Y. #. IF a buzzing three-inch yellow green flyer sailed by, settled to a puddle ol spilled hquor on the floor, dig Leon raised a size thirteen shoe -- "Don't do it," Retief said. "He probably needs a drink as bad as we did." "That's just a Phip," Seymour said. "You talk like they was human. "You never can tell," Retief said, skirting the small creature. "He just might be somebody's Cousin George." O utside, the five Teirans hailed two massive peach-colored Wumblums, mounted to the creaking velvet-lined seats strapped to the heavy creatures' backs, relaxed as their mounts trundled off on broad leather-shod wheels toward the spaceport, groaning up the steep slopes, puffing down the declines, shouting for way among the thronging Quoppina packing the route. Clear of the main shopping streets, the Wumblums made better time, wheeling along briskly under the crisp morning sky. Overhead, the glaring crescent of loop, Quopp's sister world, swung toward its twicedaily eclipse of the distant sun, a blinding point of white light casting short mid-morning shadows across the intricately surfaced buildings that thrust up everywhere like giant, lumpy loaves of pastel-toned bread. "You gents coming back?" Reliefs mount inquired in a voice like the E-string on a bass cello. It tilted an auditory receptor to pick up the reply over the noise of wheels on pavement. "Not right away," Retief said. "Better not wait for us." "I'll stick around anyway. VoomVoom's the name. Ask for me when you're ready to go. Not much action this morning. All these Zilk and Jackoo in town from the villages; they'd wear out their wheels rubbernecking before they'd hail a ride. And these Voion cops all over the place -- they're not helping business any." The Wumblum behind Retief 'i swung out, came alongside. "Looks like we got company." Big Leon called, pointing over his shoulder with a large, blunt thumb. Retief glanced back. A pair of Voion were trailing fifty yards behind, black shells glistening, light winking from their recently applied Police insignia. "There are two more flanking us on the right," Retief said. "I'd guess we're covered on the left, too. They don't want us to be lonely." "Maybe you'd better cut out of here," Leon suggested. "I guess they're still mad. Me and the boys'll handle this." "It's a nice day for a drive," Retief said. "I wouldn't think of missing it." The Wumblum took a quick look back at Retief. "Some of those Voion giving you gents trouble?" "They're trying. I'll concede that, Voom-Voom." "Don't worry about a thing, boss. I'll say a word to my side-kick Rhum-Rhum, and we'll lead those grub-eaters down a couple of side streets to a cul-de-sac I know and work 'em over for you." 'That's friendly of you, old timer, but we don't have time for any more horseplay today." "All part of the service," VoomVoom said. T he port came into view as the party emerged from the twisting avenue: a hundred-acre expanse of hilly ground, ringed by a sagging wire fence, paved and scabbed over with a maze of flimsy temporary structures, some now nearly a century old, among which the tall shapes of scattered vessels thrust up. As Retief watched, a vast black shadow swept down the hillside beyond the ships. It rushed across the port blanking out the gleam of sun on chromalloy and concrete and corrugated aluminum, then enveloped them, plunging the street into abrupt, total darkness. Retief looked up; the great fire-edged disk of loop loomed black against the midnight blue sky. Voom-Voom lowered his head, and the beam of dusty light from his luminescent organ cut a path through the gloom ahead. "You know, you Terries have done us Quoppina a lot of good," he said, slowing now to pick his way with more care. "Like the focusing lenses for us Wumblums' headlights. A real boon. And the rubber wheel-shoes some of the fellows wear; a useful item. And the synthetic lubricants -- and the surgical spares -- you've kept a lot of fellows on the street earning a living at a time o' life when our dads would have been laid up for good. But those Voion cops, and this one world, one government idea: It's a mistake. It's always been every tribe for itself, and a good system, too." "Watch it, Retief," Big Leon called quietly. There was a soft swish of tires on clay pavement, the abrupt stab of yellowish light beams as fast-moving forms closed in on both sides. "Halt!" a Voion accent came from the darkness. "Pull up here, you Wumblums, in the name of the law!" "You small-time chiselers have got the gall to pull that routine on me?" Voom-Voom trumpeted, accelerating. "Stay out of my way, or I'll leave my tread-marks down your backs!" "That's an order, you great bumbling lout!" One of the Voion, apparently carried away by his own recently acquired rank, swung too close. Voom-Voom shot out an arm like a ship-grapple, gathered the luckless creature in, tossed him aside to slam the pavement with a clang of metallo-organic body plates. A second Voion, veering aside, gave a shriek, disappeared under the massive wheels of Rhum-Rhum. The others sheered off, fell back, as the Wumblums sped off toward the lights now gleaming all across the port Retief held onto the worn leather hand-straps as the solid wheels hammered over the pot-holed road. gone as far as handing out power guns to those jaspers," Seymour shouted as Rhum-Rhum came up on the starboard beam. "Look there!" Jerry leaned forward beside Retief. "There are Voion swarming all over the port!" IF "Don't worry, gents," VoomVoom hooted. "Rhum-Rhum and me will stand by. That was the first time I've had my wheels on a Voion Mnce the "last time I caught one prying the lid off my fare-box. It felt good." Ill T here was a flood-lit gate ahead, flanked by a pair of Voion who rolled forward officiously -- and darted back as Voom-Voom barreled past them, slammed through the fence, hurtled on without slowing. They were in among the tall ships now, threading their way among stacked packing cases, dangling cargo nets, hurrying stevedores and Vorch cargo-carriers, the latter squat Quoppina with three thick functional wheels and broad, laborscarred carapaces. Ahead Retief saw ttte sides of stacked cases being unloaded by Voion stevedores from the hold of a battered tramp trader under a battery of poly arcs. "You notice they're not shipping the stuff in Corps vessels," Big Leon pointed out as their mounts pulled up at a signal from Retief. "It's all handled pretty cagy; looks like there's angles to this that Longspoon doesn't want publicity on. It just happens I know that cargomark." A pair of bustling Voion were at work on the cargo net, overseeing the placement of the crates. Others stood about, as though on guard -- humbler specimens than the elite police, Retief noted; their dull black wing-cases lacked the high polish and bright-work of their favored tribemates. One, wearing the armband of a Ramp Master, wheeled across to confront the visitors. He was an oldster, beginning to silver around the edges, his thickened wing cases showing the marks of repeated paring. "What d'ye seek here, sirs?" ho chirped in tribal Voion, in what was meant to be an authorative tone, meanwhile working his antenor antennae in frantic Voion thieves' code. "Shift... cases... conceal... special... consignment," Retief deciphered. He noted a sudden stir of activity among the Voion at the net A pair of the patrolling stick-wielders rolled in to help. The center of attention appeared to be a stack of cases conspicuously tagged with large red cards reading 'For the Terra Ambassador'. "We takee look-see," Seymour was saying in trade pidgin. "We lookec gift-gift Terry friend-friend send." "Very go," the oldster shifted to the same tongue. "Looky see, plenty ski pants, snowshoe, smoked oyster, bagels, tennis racquet, paintby-number kit. All stuff keep tiny Quoppina tot alive all winter." "You hear that, Retief?" Big Leon growled. "Some of my hottest trade items, those are. You'd think Longspoon was deliberately trying to put us traders out of business." Ho pointed suddenly. "Hey, look there!" A Voion in tribal dress, with the feathery antennae of a Flying Jarwheel strapped to his head, was manuevering a pink Timblum -- a smaller cousin of the mighty Wumblum into position. There was a squat car hitched behind the mount. "That's Smuk. He's a retired slaver; used to be one of my best customers. Now look at him, free-loading! No wonder I don't see him around the warehouse sales any more!" R etief climbed down from his seat, strolled across to study the stacked crates. TTie Ramp Master trailed him, his wheels squeaking on the dry bearings of old age. Behind the facade of hurriedly placed boxes, Retief counted at least half a dozen of the red-marked cases identical with the others except for the prominent diplomatic address. 'Fhe Voion twittered nervously at his heels. "Nice Terry gentleman take looksee next side, see plenty nice box, you bet," he croaked. "What's in those, Ramp Master?" Retief asked in tribal Voion, indicating the half-concealed boxes. "Eee, the sir speaks good Tribal." The old Voion clacked his palps in a gesture indicating Respectful Congratulation. "Why, as to those cases there, they contain educational material, yes, sir, that's what they contain. Now, over here..." Big Leon had come up beside Retief. "Fed like sticking your nose into trouble?" Retief asked softly. Leon nodded. "Sure, why not?" "Why don't you go stir up a little activity over there, say in about ten minutes?" "Huh? Oh, I gotcha." Leon gave Retief a quizzical look, went over and spoke to Seymour. Beside Retief, the old Voion signalled with his antennae. A pair of cargo-handlers wheeled casually over to hover near the Terrans, trailing as they sauntered off, looking over the scene of bustling activity. Retief moved on along the deepshadowed lane between stacked cargo, paused before a heap of crates, pointed to the manila envelopes stapled to their sides. "Mind if I look?" he inquired. "As the sir desires," the oldster said quickly. Retief pulled a folded copy of a Bill of Lading from the pocket, opened it out. It indicated that the crate contained bound volumes of the Pest Control Journal consigned to the Information Service Library in care of the Terran Consulate at Groon -- a small city a hundred miles up-river in Deep Jungle. He went on, casually checking packing lists, rounded the end of the line of stacked crates, came up the back side. Directly behind the red-tagged cases, he found a pile of boxes contained blank forms destined for the Terran Chancery. At that moment, an outcry came from beyond the looming bulk of the ship. Retief turned to his guide, who was now jittering nervously and looking in the direction from which the disturbance emanated. "By the way, I forgot to mention it, but one of my companions -- the large one -- is something of a practical joker. He may have taken it into his head to start a fire or plant a couple of small choke-bombs. Maybe you'd better wheel over and check on him." "The sir jests?" The Ramp Master looked around for a courier, saw IF the last of his crew curving sharply out of sight on one wheel headed for the scene of the growing uproar. "If the sir will excuse... He shot off at surprising speed. A t once Retief turned to the nearest of the red-tagged crates, used a handy pry-bar to lever a slot free. A layer of oil-impregnated plastic barred his view of the contents of the box. He took out a compact pocket knife, snapped the blade out, slit the liner, reached in, felt the lumpy coolness of a plasticcoated object. He managed a twofingered grip, drew it out. It was a bulky, heavy package, roughly triangular, larger than Reliefs hand, its outlines obscured by the protective cocoon. He slit it, peeled it back. power gun nestled in his hand. Retief glanced around; none of the port personnel were in view. He stripped away the oily covering from the gun, dropped the weapon in his pocket, then tucked the empty plastic back inside, folded the liner over it, pressed the slat back in position. The noises from Big Leon's direction were gaining in timber and volume, accompanied by splintering sounds. Voom-Voom glanced at Retief. "Say, boss, that racket -- " "Just yish high spirits; it won't last much longer," Retief said. "Meanwhile, see that nobody disturbs me for the next five minutes." Voom-Voom waved one arm, clicked his luminescent organ on and rolled forward to cover the approach. Retief set to work moving the barricade of boxes aside and removing red tags from the Special Consignment. The riot continued, still growing in volume. With the tags free, Retief moved back to the crates marked for Groon, quickly removed the tags, used the butt of liis pocket knife to hammer labels removed from the consignment of forms in place in their stead, then hurried on to the crated forms, placed the red tags on the boxes. "Better hurry it up, boss," VoomVoom hooted softly. "I think the excitement's dying down over there." He broke off to rumble suddenly into action. Retief heard the shriU of Voion voices. He glanced up at the black disc of loop; a glowing bulge was showing at one edge now; the eclipse would be over in another half-minute. He hurried back to the Special Consignment, attached the cards from the Library shipment intended for Groon. Behind him, voices shrilled; Voom-Voom was stni blocking the lane, loudly demanding why he should move merely to let a pack of Voion riff-raff through. Retief stepped quickly iO Rhum-Rhum. #iTf you backed up carelessly, you X might just ram that pile of boxes," he said. "They might get all mixed up together..." "They might, at that," the Wumblum agreed. "Take those scalpers half their siesta hour to unscramble 'em." He straightened his wheels, glanced back, and moved suddenly, slamming into the neatly stacked crates. They skidded, toppled with a crash. Voom-Voom, watching the by-play with one pair of eyes, whirled about in mock alarm, dumped another row. Excited Voion shot of returned sunlight sprang across the hills, scythed down the slope and on across the crowded tarmac to bathe the scene of chaos in light. Big Leon appeared, looming over the scurrying cargo tenders. He looked around, frowning. "What the Sam Hill happened here?" he demanded loudly. "Big brute of dumb Wumblum makee big mess-mess," the old Voion cargomaster shrieked. "Great clumsy louts gotee no damn pidgin here!" "Don't spin your wheels, grandpa," Voom-Voom rumbled carelessly. He leaned over to put his armored cranium near Reliefs. "How'd I do, chief?" "Very effective," Relief said approvingly. He walked over to the sidelines where a dull-eyed Vorch cargo-carrier was squatting, watching the activity. "There are half a dozen crates marked for the Terry Library at Groon," he said in trade dialect to the heavyweight. "I wonder if you know of an unused shed nearby where they might accidentally be tucked away out of sight for a few days." He dropped a strip of embossed plastic trade wampum in the Vorch's nearest hand, which immediately twitched it out of sight. "What's this -- a bribe?" The carrier swiveled his wide head to bring his silicon-lensed rear eyes to bear. "Just a gratuity for services rendered," Relief reassured him. "That's okay then. Just so you don't offer me no graft." The Vorch pointed with a short, thick arm. "The little bonded warehouse over there -- the one with the red carving on the front. I'll stack the stuff in there." Retief nodded and rejoined the party. "Hey, what gives, Retief?" Seymour demanded. "Leon says -- " "Maybe you better not ask too many questions," the big man put in. "I think we made our point. Let's settle for that and head back for Rum Jungle. Something's ready to pop, and I want to be minding the store when it happens." "Maybe you better come with us, Retief," Steel-tooth said. "The post is a pretty fair fort if push comes to shove." "Don't talk foolish, Lester." Leon said. "Relief's got a job to do here." "Yeah," Steel-tooth said, "but when the job blows up in your face, remember Rum Jungle. We'll need every man -- and then it won't be enough." IV A t the Terran Chancery in the Path of Many Sporting Agents, Retief stepped down from his perch and handed a strip of credit to his mount. "Call on me any time, boss," the Wumblum said. "I kind of like your style." He nodded toward the irregularly surfaced Embassy complex, a cluster of standard Quopp-style buildings perched on the uneven ground, painted ochre, Indian red IF and dusty aquamarine, and perforated by irregularly shaped windows at random intervals. "First time I ever hauled a Terry," the Wumblum went on in a confidential tone. "Between you and me, I heard you folks were a tight crowd with a credit and not much in the sporting line, if you know what I mean." "A base canard, Voom-Voom. A diplomat considers a day wasted if he isn't playing at least three games at once." As Retief stepped through the main entry, incongruously aluminum-framed and glass-doored. First Secretary Magnan hurried up, a thin, harassed figure in the limp yelloW seersucker shorts and dickey of subtropical undress kit. "Retief," he called. "Wherever have you been? The Ambassador is furious. And Colonel UnderknuckIc's been calling for you for an hour! I've been frantic!" "Why? Can't they be furious without me?" "The sight of you seems to stimulate the condition, I grant," Magnan said witheringly. "Come along now. I've told the Colonel you were probably out gathering material for the quarterly Sewage Report. I trust you'll say nothing to dispel that impression." "I've been cementing relations with the Terran business community," Retief explained as he accompanied the senior diplomat along the wide, tiled office-lined corridor which had been installed to replace the warren of tiny, twisting passages terior of the structure. "Hmmm. I'm not sure that was wise, in view of the present downplaying of Terran private enterprise here on Quopp. You know how Prime Minister Ikk frowns on that sort of thing." "Oh, Prime Minister, eh? Who fave him that title?" "Why, he advised the Ambassador that It was conferred early this morning by unanimous vote of the Council of Drones." Retief followed Magnan into the lift; the doors closed with a soft whoosh! of compressed air. # #T et's see," Retief mused. "That's the dummy legislature he set up to satisfy the Ambassador's passion for democracy, isn't it? It was fortunate he had seventy-three senile uncles handy to appoint; saved the bother of breaking in strangers." "Yours is a distorted view of the evolution of representational government here on Quopp," Magnan said reprovingly. "Closer attention to your daily Bulletin from the Bird's Nest would go far toward homogenizing your thinking on the subject." "I thought that was something Acy did to milk." "The term refers to voluntary alignment of viewpoint toward a group-oriented polarity; a sort of Knkage of moral horsepower for maximal thrust toward the objective." "I'm not sure pasteurized thinking is rich enough in intellectual vitamins to satisfy my growing curiosity about just what Ikk is up to." "It should be apparent even to you, Retief," Magnan said sharply, "that the Corps can hardly accredit a full Mission to a non-existent planetary government. Ergo, such a ruling body must be formed. And who better qualified than the Voion to undertake the task?" "You might have something there. Their past history has given them a firm grounding in the basics of politics; but with the other tribes outnumbering them a hundred to one, it's a little hard to see how they're planning to impose planetwide enlightenment on a race that's as fond of anarchy as the Quoppina." "That, my dear Retief, is Ambassador Longspoon's problem, not oun. It was his idea to groom the Voion for leadership; our task is merely to implement his policies." "And if in the process we saddle the other ninety-nine per cent of the population with a dictatorship, that's a mere detail." "Ah, I can see you're beginning to get the picture." The elevator halted and Magnan led the way out, paused at the heavy door barring the public from the Chancery wing. "I hope you'll restrain your unfortunate tendency to essay japes at the expense of decorum, Retief. Colonel Underknuckle is in no mood for facetiae." He pushed through, nodded mechanically at the small, gray Voion female buffing her chelae at a small desk of polished blue wood at one side of the red-carpeted corridor. She clacked her palps indifferently, blew a large bubble of green spearmint and popped it with lively report. IF "Impertinence I" Magnan sniffed under his breath. "A few months ago the baggage was an apprentice lop-drudge in a local inn of most unsavory repute. Now, after we've trained her and given her that expensive set of chrome inlays, a derisive pop of the gum is considered adequate greeting for her benefactors." "That's the trouble with uplifting the masses. They get to believing it themselves." M agnan stopped at an austere slab door marked Military Au tache, fitted an expression on his narrow features appropriate for greeting a Grade Seven employee, pushed through into deep carpeted silence. "Ah, there, Hernia. I believe Colonel Underknuckle wished to see Mr. Retief." The fat woman behind the desk patted a coil of mummified hair with a hand like a glove' full of lard, showed Magnan a simper suitable for a First Secretary and thumbed a button on a console before her. A chime sounded beyond the halfopen door. "Yes, confound it! What is it this time!" a voice like splitting canvas snarled from the desk speaker. "What in the name of perdition's become of Magnan? If he's not here in five minutes, send along that memo to the Ambassador I keep handy -- " "It is I," Magnan said stiffly. "Don't use grammar on me, Magnan!" the Attache shouted. "Come in here at once! There's been another communication from the benighted vessel. The saucy minx at the controls insists she's bringing her in, clearance or no clearance. And where the devil's that fellow, Retief?" "I have him right here. Colonel." As his callers entered the room. Underknuckle, a lean, high-shouldered man with bushy white hair, hollow, purplish cheeks and a lumpy, clay-colored nose, his immaculately tailored mid-afternoon semi-formal uniform awry, spun in his hip-umatic contour chair, causing the power-swivel mechanism to whine in protest. He glared at Retief. "So there you are at last! What's the meaning of this, sir? Is it possible that you're unaware of the new restrictions on tourism here on Quopp?" The colonel lowered his voice. "Schemes are all about us, gentlemen! We'll have to look sharp to our fences to keep our powder dry!" "But just one little shipload of ladies -- and in difficulty at that -- " Magnan began. "Orders are orders!" Underknuckle hit the desk with his fist, winced, slung his fingers as though drying them. "Let me assure you, when Ambassador Longspoon imposed entry quotas on sightseers, there was an excellent reason for it!" He barked through a grimace of pain. "Gracious, yes. Colonel," Magnan chirped. "We all know Prime Minister Ikk doesn't like Terries." "Ikk's likes and dislikes have nothing to do with it. It was the Ambassador's decision!" #I course, Colonel. What I meant was, you don't like Terries." Don't like Terrans? Why I'm a Tcrran myself, you idiotl" I didn't mean to give the wrong impression, I'm sure, Fred," Magnan said breathlessly. Personally, I love Terries -- " Not these Terries!" Underknuckle snatched up a paper and waved it. A boatload of females! Giddy, irresponsible women! Idlers -- or worse! Parasites! And no visas, mind you! And the ring-leader, Mr. Relief -- " the colonel thrust a mobile lower lip at him -- "is demanding to speak to you, sir! By name!" Retief!" Magnan turned on him. "What can you be thinking of, importing luxury goods!" #Tt's clear enough what he's thinkJL ing of," Underknuckle snapped. And I hardly need point out that such thoughts are not in consonance with tight military security!" Magnan assumed a troubled-butdetermined expression. Did the young lady give a name?" Harrumph! Indeed she did. Tell him it's Fifi,' she said -- as though Ihe Military Attache were a common messenger-boy!" Heavens -- such cheek!" Magnan sniffed. The name itself conjures up images of. rhinestone-clad doxies," Underknuckle snorted. I confess it's difficult to understand how a diplomat has occasion to make the acquaintance of persons of such stripe!" #h. I'm sure Mr. Retief can fix you up, Fred," Magnan volunteered. "He seemed to have a knack." "I do not wish to be fixed up!" Underknuckle roared. "I wish to make it clear to these junketing trollops that they will not be permitted to make planetfall here! Now, if you, Mr. Retief, will be so kind as to report to the Message Center and so inform your, ah petiie amie -- " 'I don't have an amie at the moment, Colonel, petite or otherwise," Retief said. "And, as it happens, I don't know any young ladies named Fifi. Still, it's never too late to rectify the omission. I'll be happy to talk to her." "I'm gratified to hear it," Underknuckle said coldly. "And if that vessel lands on this planet, young man. Til hold you solely responsible!" V B ack in the corridor, Magnan trotted af Retief's side, offering advice. "Now, just tell this young person, kindly but firmly, that your time is fully occupied by your duties and that if she'll just flit along to Adobe, say -- there's a fascinating museum there with a lovely display of mummified giant wheel-spiders." 'I won't presume to plan any itineraries," Retief interrupted gently. I think it might be better to find out what the girls are up to first." "Yes, it does seem odd they'd plan a vacation on Quopp. After all, there's nothing here but jungle, with a few thousand tribal villages and three or four dozen market towns." They turned in at the Message IF Center, showed badges; electro-locks clicked and the inner door slid back, revealing a bright-lit room crammed with lock-files and coding machines. "Oh, boy, am I glad to see you, Mr. Retief," a freckled youth with thick contact lenses and a struggling mustache blurted, coming forward. "That babe aboard the yacht's a dish, all right, but she's got a way of flashing her eyes at a fellow when she doesn't get her way -- " Retief and I are in something of a hurry," Magnan cut him off. "Which screen are they on? "The yacht's over the horizon at the moment," the boy said. "She'll make re-entry on the next pass; a couple more minutes, I guess." "What's a yacht doing out here, Willy?" Retief asked. "Quopp's a long way off the regular tourist runs." "Beats me, Mr. Retief. She's a nice job. Ten thousand tons, loaded with all the latest comm gear. Too bad all we have is this obsolete lineof-sight stuff." He gestured at the banked equipment panels. "Tough about those girls losing their celestial tracking circuit, too. Even if they could get in here, they'd be stuck for months waiting for a reis hard to come by." "Emergency let-down, eh? What kind of help are we giving them?" The youth shrugged. "None. Longspoon's orders. Says they've got no business coming in on Quopp." "Did you tell him about the trackerf' "He said they could go on to the next system on manual trackmg. "Two months of staring into a tracker could get tiring," Retief said. "And a good chance of fatigue error and no planetfall at the end of it Let's get 'em down." "Yeah, but the Ambassador's orders -- " "I'll take the responsibility of countermanding them. Get the yacht data as soon as she makes contact." C#T ook here, Retief," Magnan i  held up an admonitory hand. "I can't stand idly by while you exceed your authority! I confess it seems a trifle surprising die Ambassador hasn't authorized aid to a distressed Terr an vessel, but -- " "We don't need authorization in a Deep Space emergency. Check Title Nine, Article Twelve, Section threeB of the Uniform Code." "The Code overrides any Planetary Authority, it says so right in -- " "See here, Retief." Magnan moved to Retiefs side, speaking low. "Quoting technicalities is all very well, but afterward one still has the problem of an overridden Ambassador to deal with. Hardly a shrewd move, careerwise." "We'll get the ladies down first, and carry out career salvage afterwards," Retief said soothingly. "Maybe it would be better if you went down to spot-check the commissary while I attend to this." Magnan frowned, settled his dickey in place. "Never mind," he said shortly. "I'll stand by." A blare of static burst from the center screen on the console across the room, followed by rapidly flickering bars of light. Then the image steadied into focus. A girPs face appeared, framed in red-blonde hair, a headset clamped in place. Other feminine faces were visible behind her, all young, all worried. "Hello, Quopp Control," she said calmly. "It looks as though the rock that hulled us did more than take out the tracker. I have no horizontal gyros, and damned little control in my left corrector banks. I'm going to have to do this by the seat-of-thepants method. I'd appreciate it if you'd loosen up and feed me some trajectory data." "Quopp Control here, young lady. Listen closely; there won't be time for a repeat. You have two choices on impact areas; one is the commercial port here at Ixix. If you've got a fix on me, you know the general location. I'm throwing the R and D fixer beam on the line now; lock onto it if you can." The girl frowned. "Sorry, Quopp Control. No response from my R and D. I have a fix on your transmission, though, and -- " "Your other possibility is an unimproved patch of rocky desert about fifty miles north-north-west. Try to . align on my signal here. If you miss, you'll have the other as a backup." "Roger, Quopp Tower. I've got tome speed to kill if I want to make you on this pass." "This pass is it," Relief snapped out "I'm clocking you on a descending spiral with an intersect this orbit. Damp that velocity fast!" T he image on the screen jittered, jumped; Relief waited while rhe girl worked the controls, watching the glowing red blip moving rapidly across the R and D screen, dropping steadily closer to the line representing the horizon. "More grief," the. girl said briskly. "I've got about half power on the forward main tubes. I'm afraid I'm going to have to give your beacon a miss and try for the desert." "Throw everything you've got to your retros, let 'em blast and keep blasting! You're going to overshoot by a hundred miles on your present course, and there's nothing out there but nineteen thousand miles of unexplored jungle!" There was a long moment of tense silence as the girl's hands moved out of sight. Then she shook her head, gave a quick, flashing smile. "That's it, Quopp Control. A fizzle. Did you say nineteen thousand miles?" "As the Phip flies. How many are there aboard?" "Ten of us." "I've got a tracker on you; try to nurse her in as easy as you can. Got any flares aboard?" "Tf not, there are a few cases of hundred and sixty proof Imperial Lily Gin; I'm sure the intended recipient won't mind if I light them off." Already her voice was growing fuzzy as the hurtling ship neared the horizon. "Hold her steady on your present course. Looks like you'll intersect IP ground zero about eighty miles out." "I'm not reading you, Quopp. I hope you get here before all the gin s -- Her voice broke off. Then it came again, faint and far away: "Quopp... er, a... ing in... make it... The voice was gone in a rising hiss of random noise. "Good Lord, I hope the poor girls land safely," Magnan gasped. He dabbed at his forehead with a large floral-patterned tissue. "Imagine being down in that horrible wilderness, swarming with unpacified Quoppkal" "ril get an Embassy heli on the way to make the pick-up," Retief said; he glanced at the wall clock. "No time to waste if weTe going to collect them by dark." "Retief -- are you sure you don't know this Fifi person?" Magnan queried as they turned to the door. "Regrettably, no. But I hope to correct the omission soon." 