The clear fact was that the human race was finished: dying like Neanderthal faced by Cro-Magnon; dying like the hairy Ainu among the Japanese. It was true that hunEarth much as they had done bestones from the ground, laboring over the handicrafts which sustained the men of the Quarter in their exile. Humanity had passed through such dark ages before. But now there was no way to go except downward. If the exiles in their ghettoes, on a hundred planets of the galaxy, were the lopped-off head of the race, then the ferment of theories, plans, and policies that swirled through them stood for the last fitful fantasies in the brain of a guillotined man. And on Earth, the prelates, the robber barons, the petty princes were ganglia: performing their mechanical functions in a counterfeit of intelligence, slowing, degenerating imperceptibly until the last spark should go out. Gudyk fingered the manuscript which lay on the desk before him. It was the last thing he had written, and it would never be finished. He had hunted it up, this morning, out of nostalgia, or perhaps through some obscure working of that impulse that made him look out at the stars each night. There were twenty pages, the first chapter of a book that was to have been his major work. It ended with the words: "The only avenue of escape for humanity is..." He had stopped there, because he had realized suddenly that he had been deliberately deceiving himself; that there was no avenue. The scheme he had meant to propose and develop in the rest of the book had one thing in common with those he had demolished in the first pages. It would not work. Cudyk thought of those phantom chapters now, and was grateful that he had not written them. He had meant to propose that the exiles should band together on some unpeopled planet, and rear a new generation which would be given all the knowledge of the old, save for two categories: military science and astronomy. They would never be told, never guess that the bright lights of their sky were suns, that the suns had planets and the planets people. They would grow up free of that numbing pressure; they would have a fresh start. It had been the grossest self-deception. You cannot put the human mind in chains. Every culture had tried it, and every culture had failed... He pulled open a drawer of his desk and put the manuscript into it. A folded note dropped to the floor as he did so. Cudyk picked it up and read again: You are requested to attend a meeting which will he held at # Washington Avenue at # hours today. Matters of public policy will be discussed . It was not signed; no signature was needed, nor any threatened alternative to complying with the "request". Cudyk glanced at his wristwatch, made on Oladi by spidery, many-limbed creatures to whom an ordinary watch movement was a gross mechanism. The dial showed the Galactic Standard numerals which corresponded to ten o'clock. Cudyk stood up wearily and walked out past the carved screen. He said to Nick, "I'll be back in an hour or so." Eight Washington Avenue was The Little Bear, half a block from the comer where he had first met Harkway, a block and a half from the spot where Harkway's corpse had been left in a doorway. Two more associations, Cudyk thought. After twenty-five years, there were so many that he could not move a foot in the Quarter, glance at a window or a wall, without encountering one of them. And this was another thing to remember about a ghetto: you were crowded not only in space but in time. The living were the most transient inhabitants of the Quarter. Cudyk stepped through the open door of The Little Bear, saw the tables empty and the floor bare. The bartender, Piljurovich, jerked his thumb toward the stairs. "You're late," he said in Russian. "Better hurry." Cudyk climbed the stairs to the huge second-floor dining hall, where the Russians and Poles held their periodic revels. The room was packed tight with a silent mass of men. At the far end, Rack sat on a chair placed on a table. He stopped in mid-sentence, stared coldly at Cudyk, and then went on. " -- or against me. From now on, there won't be any more neutrals. I want you to understand this clearly. For one thing, your lives may depend on it." He paused, glancing around the room. "By now you all know that James Harkway was executed last night. His crime was treason against the human race. There are some of you here who have been, or will be, guilty of the same crime. To them I have nothing more to say. To the others, those who have considered themselves neutral, I say this: First, New Earth needs all of you and has earned your allegiance. Second, those of you who remain on an enemy planet in spite of this warning will not live to regret it if that planet is selected for attack. "You have two months to make up your minds and to close your affairs. At the end of that time, a New Earth transport will call here to take off those who decide to go. It will be the last New Earth ship, and I warn you that you had better not count on Galactic transportation after that date." He stood up. "That's all." The audience was over. Rack waited, standing on the table, thumbs hooked into his belt, jacket over his shoulders, like a statue of himself, while the crowd moved slowly out of the room. It was ludicrous, but you could not laugh. Two months. For almost twenty years Rack had been a minor disturbance in the Quarter, no more important or dangerous or mad than a dozen others; appearing suddenly, at night, staying for a few days, disappearing again for a month, or two, or six. He brought stolen goods to Ferguson -- furs from Drux Uta, perhaps, or jewels from Thon -- and Ferguson paid him in Galactic currency, reselling the merchandise later, some on Palumbar, some on a dozen other worlds, for twenty times the price he paid. Rack had a following among the younger men of the Quarter; two or three a year joined him. Occasionally there were rumors in the Quarter of Rack's close calls with the Galactic Guard. It had never been a secret that he was building military installations on some far-off planet. But now, for the first time, Cudyk realized that Rack was actually going to make war on the universe. Whatever the result, the least it meant was the end of the Quarter. The stairs were choked. Cudyk worked his way down, to find the barroom filled with little knots of men, talking in low voices. Only a few were drinking. Someone called his name, and then a hand grasped his sleeve. It was Speros Moulios, the grey little tobacco dealer, whose two sons drank too much. "Mr. Cudyk, please, what do you think? Should we go, like he says?" The others of the group followed him; in a moment Cudyk was surrounded. He felt helpless. "I can't advise you, Mr. Moulios," he said. "To be truthful, I don't know what I am going to do myself." Nobilio Villaneuva, the druggist, said, "I have worked fifteen years, saved all my money. What am I going to do with it if I go to this New Earth? And what about my daughter?" Someone came elbowing his way through the crowd. He signaled to Cudyk. "Laszlo!" It was bald, cheerful Mike Moskowitz, one of the Quarter's two doctors. He said, "Some of the fellows want to form a delegation, to go back and ask Rack some questions. They asked me to serve, but I've got to get back to the hospital. Same thing with Seu, he's got six things on his hands already. Father Exarkos isn't here. Will you take over? Good. I'll see you later." Cudyk sighed. The men around him were watching him expectantly. He stepped over to the bar, picked up an empty glass and rapped with it on the counter until the room quieted. "It's been suggested," he said, "that a delegation be formed to ask Captain Rack for more information. Do you all want that?" There was an affirmative murmur. "All right," said Cudyk. "Nominations?" They ended up with a committee of five: Cudyk as spokesman, Moulios, Chong Yin, the painter Prokop Vekshin, and the town clerk, Martin Paz. Cudyk had slips of paper passed out, and collected a hundred-odd questions, most of them duplicates and some of them incoherent. Paz made a neat list of those that remained, and the delegation moved toward the stairs. Cudyk saw Burgess standing, blinking uncertainly around him. He dropped back and put his hand on the man's arm. "Hello, Louis. I'm glad to see you. How is Kathy?" Burgess straightened a trifle. "Oh -- Laszlo. She's all right, thank you. Feeling a little low, just now, of course..." His voice trailed off. "Of course," said Cudyk sympathetically. "I wish there were something I could do." "No -- no, there's nothing. Time will cure her, I suppose. Where are you going now?" Cudyk explained. "Were you at the meeting, earlier?" he asked. "No. I was not invited. I only heard -- ten minutes ago. Perhaps it would be all right if I came upstairs with you? In that way -- But if I would be a nuisance -- " His features worked. Cudyk felt obscurely uneasy. He recalled suddenly that it was a long time since he had seen Burgess looking perfectly normal. He said reluctantly, "I think it will be all right. Why not? Come along." Rack was sitting at the end of the long table on the far side of the room, talking to Ferguson. Ferguson's hatchet-man, Vic Smalley, was leaning watchfully against the far wall. Monk and Spider sat at Rack's left. De Grasse, pale and red-eyed, sat halfway down the table, away from the others. He stared at the table in front of him, paying no attention to the rest. Cudyk had heard that De Grasse was still with Rack, and had wondered what he had done to expiate his sin. The obvious answer was one that he had not wanted to believe : that De Grasse had been given the task of murdering Harkway. He had done it, probably, with a tormented soul and under Rack's eye, but he had done it. So much, Cudyk thought wearily, for the selfless nobility of man. Rack looked up expressionlessly as the five men approached. "Yes?" Cudyk said, "We have been chosen to ask you some questions about your previous statement." "Ask away," said Rack, leaning back in his chair. Before him was a glass of the dark, smoky liquor Ferguson imported for his special use. He was smoking a tremendously long, black Russian cigarette. Cudyk took the list from Paz and read the first question. "What is the status of New Earth as to housing, utilities and so on?" "Housing and utilities are adequate for the present population," said Rack indifferently. "More units will be built as needed." Paz scribbled in his notebook. Cudyk read, "Will every new colonist be expected to serve as a member of New Earth's fighting forces?" Rack said, "Every man will work where he's needed. Common sense ought to tell you that middle-aged men with pot bellies and no military training won't be asked to man battleships." "What is die size of New Earth's navy?" "Next question." "Will new colonists be allowed to retain their personal fortunes?" Rack stared at him coldly. "The man who asked that," he said, "had better stay in the Quarter. If by his personal fortune he means Galactic currency, he can use it to stuff ratholes. Any personal property of value to the community, and in excess of the owner's minimum needs, will be commandeered and dispensed for the good of the community." "Will new colonists be under military dis -- " "Look out!" said De Grasse suddenly. He lurched to his feet, upsetting his chair. Someone stumbled against Paz, who fell heavily across Cudyk's legs, bringing him down. Someone else shouted. From the floor, Cudyk saw Burgess standing quietly with a tiny nickeled revolver in his hand. "Please don't move, Mr. Ferguson," said Burgess. "I don't trust you. All of you, stand still, please." Cudyk carefully got his legs under him and slowly stood up. The men on the other side of the table were still sitting or standing where they had been a moment before. De Grasse stood in an attitude of frozen protest, one big hand flat against his trousers pocket. He looked comically like a man who has left the house without his keys. They must have taken his gun away, Cudyk thought, after that affair yesterday. Monk and the aged Spider were sitting tensely, trying to watch Rack and Burgess at the same time. Rack, as always, was inhumanly calm. Ferguson looked frightened. The gunman, Vic Smalley, had straightened away from the wall; he looked alert and unworried. "Captain Rack," said Burgess, "you lulled that ma n Harkway." Rack said nothing. "I did it," De Grasse said hoarsely. "If you have to shoot somebody, shoot me." Burgess turned slightly. Rack, without seeming to hurry, picked up the glass in front of him and half rose to fling the black liquor at Burgess' face. The gun went off. Burgess stumbled back a step and then toppled over, with a knife-handle sprouting magically between neck and shoulder. De Grasse came hurtling across the table top, dived onto Burgess' prostrate body and came up with the gun. Not more than two seconds had gone by since Rack lifted the glass. The delegates were moving away, leaving a clear space around De Grasse and Burgess. Cudyk heard some of them clattering down the stairs. Rack was leaning over the table, supporting himself with one hand, while the other rested at his waist. His attitude, together with his frozen expression, suggested that he was merely bending over to examine Burgess' body. But in the next moment he turned slightly, lifted the hand that was pressed to his side, and looked at die dark stain that was spreading over his shirt. De Grasse stood up. Cudyk went to Burgess and knelt beside him. The man was conscious and moving feebly. "Lie still," said Cudyk. Someone pushed his shoulder roughly, and he looked up to see De Grasse transferring the revolver from his left hand to his right. The youngster's lips were compressed. "Get out of the way," he said harshly. "No," said Rack. "Leave him alone." He sat down carefully. After a moment De Grasse went around the table and joined him. Cudyk lifted Burgess' jacket carefully. There was not much bleeding, and he did not think the wound was dangerous. Burgess said weakly, "Did I kill him, Laszlo?" "No," said Cudyk. "No one was killed." Burgess turned his head away. There were footsteps on the stairs, and Moskowitz came into the room, followed by Lee Far and two men with a stretcher. Moskowitz glanced at Burgess and at Rack, then knelt beside Burgess without a word. He pulled out the knife expertly, pressing a wad of bandage around the wound. "I'll take that," said Spider, bending over with his grey hand outstretched. Moskowitz dropped the knife on the floor and went on bandaging Burgess. Spider picked it up, glared at the doctor and went back around the table. Cudyk waited until Moskowitz had finished with Burgess and started probing for the bullet in Rack's side. Following the stretcher bearers down the stairs, he went out into the clear morning sunlight. There was never any end to it. The Quarter was like a tight gravitational system, with many small bodies swinging around each other in eccentric orbits, and the whole shrinking in upon itself as time went on, so that it grew more and more certain that one collision would engender half a dozen more. And in the mind, too, each event went on forever. Cudyk remembered Burgess, in the stretcher as he was being carried home, weeping silently because he had failed to kill the man who had murdered his daughter's lover. And he remembered Rack, sitting silent and weary as he waited for Moskowitz to attend to him: sitting without anger for the man who had shot him, sitting with patience, filled with his own inner strength. And De Grasse, tortured soul, who had once more shown himself loyalty he felt. Even Monk, even Spider, lived not for himself but for Rack. There were all the traditional virtues, dripping their traditional gore : nobility, self-sacrifice, patience, even generosity. By any test except the test of results, Rack was a great man and Burgess another. And the test of results was a two-edged razor: for by that test, Cudyk himself was a total failure, a nonentity. He thought, We are the hollow men , we are the stuffed men... When every action led to disaster, those who did nothing were damned equally with those who acted. arm as he left Chong Yin's. He turned and saw that it was Ferguson. "I've got something to say to you, Cudyk. I saw you were busy talking to Father Exarkos in there, so I didn't bother you. Besides, it's private. Come on down to my place." The man was doing him an honor, Cudyk realized, in approaching him personally instead of sending an underling. And now, as Ferguson stood waiting for him to reply, Cudyk saw that there was something curiously like appeal in his eyes. "All right, if you wish," he said. "But I will have to go back to the shop within an hour -- Nick has not had his lunch." "I won't keep you that long," Ferguson said. They turned at the corner and walked down Washington, past Town Hall to The Little Bear. Beyond this point, everything was Ferguson's : the dance hall, the casino, the bawdy house, the two cafes and three bars, and the two huge warehouses at the end of the avenue. But it was the casino that Ferguson meant when he said "my place". A white-aproned boy got up hurriedly and opened the heavy doors when they approached. Ferguson strode past without looking at him, and Cudyk followed across the long, empty room. Dust covers shrouded the roulette table, the chuck-a-luck layout, faro, cheminde-fer, dice and poker tables. The bar was deserted, bottles and glasses neatly stacked. Ferguson led the way up a short flight of stairs to the overhanging balcony at the end of the room. He opened the door with a key -- a rarity in the Quarter, since cylinder locks were available only by scavenging on Earth, and had to be imported, whereas a mechanism used by the Niori as a mathematical toy could be readily adapted into an efficient combination lock. The low-ceilinged room was furnished with a blond-wood desk and swivel chair, a long, pale green couch and two chairs upholstered in the same fabric: all Earth imports, scavenged from stocks manufactured before the Collapse. The carpet was a deeper green. There were three framed pictures on the walls : a blue-period Picasso, a muted oysterwhite and grey Utrillo and a small Roualt clown. Ferguson was watching him. "Just like my place in Chicago," he said. "You never saw it before, did you?" "No," Cudyk said. "I have never been in the Casino until now." "Sit down," said Ferguson, pointing to one of the upholstered chairs. He pulled out the swivel chair and leaned back in it. He nodded toward the glass which formed the entire front wall of the room. "Sittin' up here, I can see everything that goes on downstairs. I got a phone -- " he laid his hand on it -- "that communicates with the cashier's booth in every room. I can handle the whole place from here, and I don't have to be bothered by the goofs if I don't want to. Also, that glass is bullet proof. It's Niori stuff, ten times better than anything we had back home. They tell me you couldn't get through it with a bazooka." Cudyk said nothing. "What I wanted to talk to you about -- " said Ferguson, leaning forward with his elbows on his knees. "You understand, Cudyk, this is confidential. Strictly between us." "I don't want any confidence that will be difficult to keep," said Cudyk. "What do you mean?" "If it is something that touches the safety of the Quarter -- " Ferguson waved his hand impatiently. "No, it's nothing like that. I just don't want it to get around too early. All right, use your own judgment. Here it is." "Rack's coming back in about three weeks with his transport, to pick up anybody that wants to go to New Earth. I'm not going, and neither are any of my boys. On the other hand, I'm not going to stay here either. It isn't healthy any more." "I don't know what Rack's got, but I've got a pretty good idea he's got enough to raise a lot of hell. Now you can figure the angles for yourself : maybe he won't bomb this planet because he thinks he can still make some use of the Quarter -- but that's a big maybe. Even if he doesn't, it's a dead cinch there's going to be trouble. The Niori know he comes here, even if they can't prove it, and when the war starts they're going to be sore." "Tell me something," said Cudyk after a moment. "If you knew all this long ago -- and you must have, since you have been so closely associated with Rack -- why did you help Rack, and so force yourself to leave Palumbar?" Ferguson grinned and shrugged. "I'm not complaining," he said. "Rack never fooled me. I got mine, and he got his -- it was a business arrangement. When you figure everything in, I can clear out now and I'm still ahead. See, you got to figure that nothing lasts forever. If I hadn't played along with Rack, he would have taken his business somewhere else. Maybe I could have stayed here a little longer, but then again, maybe I would have stayed too long. This way, I got my information in advance, and I got my profit from dealing with Rack. "As a matter of fact, he thinks I and all my outfit are going to be on that transport when it goes back to his base. He knows I wouldn't take a chance on staying here when the shooting starts. What he doesn't know is that I got someplace else to go, and a way to get there." He sat back in his chair again. "I got a Niori-built freighter hidden back in the hills. Had it for eight years now. It'll carry five hundred people, and fuel and provisions for a year, on top of the cargo. And I got a planet picked out where nobody will bother me -- not Rack, and not the Galactics." He took a cigar box from the desk and offered it to Gudyk. Cudyk shook his head, showing his pipe. Ferguson took a cigar, twirled it in his lips slowly, and lit it. "You know," he said, bending forward, "there's plenty of planets in the galaxy that aren't inhabited. Some have never even been explored. They're off the shipping routes, no intelligent race on them, nothing special in the way of organic products, so nobody wants them. Rack's got one -- I've got another." He gestured with the cigar. "But I'm not using mine to build up any war base. What for?" His long face contorted with violent disgust. "That Rack is crazy. You know it and I know it. If it wasn't for him, I could have stayed here, who knows how long? Or I could have moved to one of the other colonies if I saw a good chance. I like it here. This is civilization -- all that's left of it. "But -- " he leaned back again -- "you got to take what you can get. If the odds are too heavy, cash in and walk out. That's what I'm doing: I'm retiring. On this planet I told you about, there's a big island. A tropical island. Fruit -- all you can eat. Little animals something like wild pigs. Fish in the ocean. Gravity just a little under Earth normal, atmosphere perfect. And I'm taking along everything else we'll need. Generators, all kinds of electrical equipment, stoves, everything. It'll last your lifetime and mine." He looked at Cudyk. "What more would you want?" Cudyk said slowly, "You're asking me to go with you?" Ferguson nodded. "Sure. I'll treat you right, Cudyk. My boys will go on working for me, you understand, and so will most of the others I'm going to take. I'll be the boss. But you, and three or four others, you won't have to do any work. Just lie in that sand, or go fishing, or whatever you feel like. How does it sound?" "I don't think I quite understand," said Cudyk. "Why do you choose me?" Ferguson put down his cigar. He looked uncomfortable. He said irritably, "Because I've got to have somebody to talk to." He stared at Cudyk. "Look at me. Here I am, I'm fifty years old, and I been fighting the world ever since I was a kid. You think I can just cut loose from everything now, and lie under a tree? I'd go nuts in a month. I'm not kidding myself, I know what I am. It takes practice to learn how to relax and enjoy yourself. I never learned, never had the time. "When I get on that island, and I get all the houses built and the wires strung up, and everything's organized and I've got nothing else to do, I can see myself lying there thinking about this place, and all the other places I ever owned, and thinking to myself, 'What for?' And there's no answer, I know that. But just the same, I'm going to be wanting to start in again, making a deal, opening a joint, figuring the angles, handling people. "So there I'll be, with all these mugs around me. What do they know to talk about? The same things I do. Things that happened to them in the rackets, here or back on Earth. You got to talk to somebody, or you go crazy. But if I've got nobody but them to talk to, how'm I ever going to get my mind off that kind of stuff?" He gestured toward the Roualt, on the wall to Cudyk's left. "Look at that," he said. "I bought that thing in #. I've been looking at it for, let's see, twenty-three years. For the first five or so I couldn't figure out whether the guy was kidding or not. Then, gradually, I got to like it. But I still don't know why the hell I like it. It's the same thing with everything. I have a Corot that I'm nuts about -- I look at it every night before I go to sleep. It's just a landscape, like you used to see on calendars in the old days, except the calendars were junk and this is art. I know that, I can feel it. But what's the difference between the two? Don't ask me. "See what I mean? That's the kind of stuff I got to learn about. Art. Literature. Music. Philosophy. I always wanted to, before, but I never had the patience for it. Now I've got to do it. My kind of life is finished, I've got to learn a new kind." He frowned at his cigar. "It isn't going to be easy. Maybe there'll be times when you'll wish you had anybody else in the world around but me. But I won't take it out on you, Cudyk." He meant it, Cudyk knew. For a moment he wondered, Why don't I accept? He could see Ferguson's island paradise clearly enough : the tropical trees, the log huts -- with electric light, induction stoves for cooking, and hot and cold water -- the sand, the sunshine, the long, lazy afternoons spent in talking quietly on the beach. There would be no strain and no tension, if everything went as Ferguson planned -- only a long, slow twilight, with nothing left to fear or to hope for: forgetfulness, lethargy; lotos and Lethe; a pleasant exile, a scented prison. "You won't have to worry about the others, the guys that work for me," Ferguson said. "After they get through building the settlement, they can do what they want as long as they don't make any trouble. There'll be enough women to go around -- they can settle down and raise kids. There won't be any liquor, and I'm going to keep the weapons locked up. About the ship -- I'll wreck that as soon as we land. Once we're there, we're there." If it were not for Ferguson himself, Cudyk thought, I believe I might do it. But Ferguson, inside a year, is going to be a pitiable and terrible object. This is his own punishment, his lesser evil -- he chooses it himself. But he is not going to like it. "I think I understand," he said. "Believe me, Mr. Ferguson, I'm deeply grateful for this offer, and I am tempted to accept. But -- I think I will stay and take my chances with the Quarter." Ferguson stared at him, then shrugged. "Don't make up your mind in too much of a hurry," he said. "Think it over -- I'm not leaving for a couple of weeks. And listen, Cudyk, do me a favor. Don't spread this around." "Very well," said Cudyk. Ferguson did not get up to see him to the door. of suspension in the Quarter. Trade was slow; only a few Niori and still fewer members of other Galactic races strolled down the narrow streets, and for more than a week Cudyk sold nothing.  Human faces were missing, too. Almost two hundred of the ghetto's inhabitants had left quietly, during the night, when word had gone around that the "New Earth" transport was waiting. Villanueva had gone, with his family; so had'j Martin Paz; and Ferguson had gone earlier with all his crew. To-' day, two weeks later, Cudyk had spent the morning wandering the City. It was a thing he had done often in his first years on the planet, before the restless drive of his youth had seeped away, leaving nothing but momentum, and memory, and a few vestiges that reminded him of the man he had been. He had spent whole days in the City, then, looking into this building and that, talking to the natives, asking questions, observing. He had seen the City as part of a colossal jigsaw puzzle from which, if you were patient and perceptive, you might extract the nexus, the inner pattern that made the essential difference between Niori and men. For the Niori, like nearly all the intelligent races of the galaxy, had one survival factor that men had always lacked. There was no word for it in any human language; you could only talk around it in negatives. The Niori did not kill; they did not lie; they did not steal, intrigue, exploit each other, hate, make war. For men, "the fittest" had always been the man, or nation, or race, that survived by exterminating its rivals. Somehow, the Niori had found another way. There was no word for it. But perhaps you could find it, if you looked long enough. He had studied their architecture, and pondered long on the arrangement of the City's great hivebuildings: a peculiar, staggered arrangement which was neither concentric nor radial; which created no endless vistas, only islands of buildings or lakes of parkland. He had tried to see into that arrangement and through it to the soul of the race, as other scholars had peered into the city-plans of Athens and New York, reading inwardness into one and outwardness into the other. The method was sterile. The Niori had no "world-view" in the Spenglerian sense. Their cities expressed only function and a sense of beauty and order. In those early days, he had said to himself: These people have no cinemas, theaters, churches, art galleries, concert halls, football fields. Let me see what they have instead, and perhaps I will begin to understand them. He had seen the Niori, sitting in a circle of six or eight, solemnly capping one word with another, around and around. To him, the sequences of words were sense-free and followed no discernable pattern. To the Niori, evidently, they fulfilled some function analagous to those of poetry and group singing. He had watched them debating in the governing council. There was no rhetoric and no heat, even when the issue was important and the opinions widely divergent. He had seen their shops, in which each article was labeled with its cost to the merchant, and the buyer gave as much more as he could afford. It was incredible ; but it worked. He had followed their culture through a thousand other avenues until he wearied of it, having learned nothing more than he knew at the beginning. Afterwards, for twenty years he had not left the Quarter except to transact business, or to oversee the unloading of merchandise at the spaceport. Today he had gone once more, feeling an obscure compulsion: perhaps because he knew the day was coming when he would see the City for the last time ; perhaps hoping, in that small spark of himself that still allowed itself to hope for anything, that one more visit would show him the miraculous key to all that he had misunderstood. He had learned nothing new, but the morning had not been altogether wasted. It was a clear autumn day, good for walking in so green a city. And paradoxically enough, being the only Earthman on the streets had made him feel less alien than before. He attracted no attention, in a spaceport city: he walked side by side with squat Dritik and spidery Oladsa, beings of a hundred different races from as many stars. When he returned to the Quarter, he felt oddly refreshed and calmed. We have very little left, he thought, except one or two minor virtues that have no bloodstains on them. Kindliness, humor, a sense of brotherhood... perhaps if we had stuck to those, and never learned the martial virtues, never aspired to be noble or glorious, we would have come out all right. Was there ever a turning point? When Carthage was sown with salt, or when Paul founded the Church -- or when the first caveman sharpened the end of a stick and used it for murder? If so, it was a long way back, dead and buried, dust and ashes. We took all that was best in thousands of years of yearning and striving for the right, he thought, and we made it into the Inquisition and We fattened our own children for each generation's slaughter. And yet we are not all evil. Astereos is right: if the other races had been like ourselves, it would have been bearable; or if we ourselves had been creatures of pure darkness, conscienceless, glorying in cruelty -- then we could have made war on the Galaxy joyfully, and if we failed at least there would have been an element of grandeur in our failure. Olaf Stapledon had said this once, he remembered -- that there was an artistry in pure, uncontaminated evil, that it was in its own way as real an expression of worship as pure good. The tragedy of human beings, then, was that they were not wholly tragic. Jumbled, piebald parcels of contradictions, angels with asses' ears... What was that quotation from Bierce? The best thing is not to be born... Someone brushed by him, and Cudyk looked up. He was at the intersection of Ceskoslovensko and Washington; he had come three blocks past his apartment without noticing where he was going. Chong Yin's was only a few doors to his left; perhaps he had been heading there automatically. But the doors were closed, he saw; seven or eight Chinese were standing in the street outside, and as Cudyk watched, Seu Min came down the stairs from the living quarters over the tea room. The other Chinese clustered around him for a moment, and then Seu appeared again. The others slowly began to disperse. Cudyk went to meet him. The mayor's face looked strained; there were new, deep folds of skin around his eyes. "What is it, Min?" said Cudyk. Seu fell in beside him and they walked back up the street. "Chong killed himself about an hour ago," said the Chinese. How many does that make? Cudyk thought, frozen. Six, I think, in the last two months. He had not known Chong well -- the old man had been a northcountry Chinese, not Westernized in the least, who spoke only his own language. Now that he thought of it, Cudyk realized that he did not know who Chong's close friends had been, if he had had any. He had always been the same spare, stooped figure in skull-cap and robe, courteous, unobtrusive, selfcontained. He had a family; a wife, rarely seen, and six children. Somehow Cudyk felt that he would have been less surprised to hear that Moulios had committed suicide, or Moskowitz, or even Seu himself. My mistake, he told himself. I allowed myself to think of Chong as an institution, not as a man. "Have you some whisky?" asked Seu abruptly. "Yes," said Cudyk, "of course." "Let us go and drink it," Seu said. "I'm very tired." It occurred to Cudyk that he had never heard Seu say that before. They turned the corner at Athenai and climbed the stairs to his apartment. Seu sighed, and dropped heavily into a chair while Cudyk went to get the bottle and glasses. "Straight, or with water?" he asked. "Straight, please." Seu tilted his glass, swallowed and shuddered. Cudyk watched him in silence. Seu, alone in the Quarter, owned a Niori communicator -- an elaborate mechanism which reproduced sound, vision in three dimensions, odors, modulated temperature changes and several other things perceptible only to Niori. There was no restriction on their sale, and they were cheap enough, but the Niori broadcasts were as dull or as incomprehensible to men as a Terrestial breakfast program would have been to Niori. Seu used his as a source of Galactic news. Today, Cudyk guessed, the news had been very bad. "It's Rack, isn't it?" he said finally. Seu glanced at him and nodded. "Yes, it's Rack. I haven't told anyone else about it yet. The Quarter's in a half-hysterical state as it is. But if you don't mind my talking it out to you -- " "Go ahead," said Cudyk. "It's worse than anything we expected." Seu took another swallow of the whisky, and made a face. He said, "They've got a hydrogenlithium bomb." "... I was afraid of that." Seu went on as if he had not heard. "But they're not using it on planets. They're bombing suns, Laszlo. For a moment, Cudyk did not understand, then he felt his abdominal muscles contract like a fist. "They couldn't," he said hoarsely. "It would explode before it got past the outer layers." "Under faster-than-light drive?" Seu asked. "I did some figuring. At # C, it would take the bomb about two point six thousandths of a second to travel from the surface to the center of an average G-class star. I think that is a short enough interval, but maybe it isn't. Maybe they have also found some way to increase the efficiency of the standard galactic drive for short periods. Anyway, does it matter?" He looked at Cudyk again. "I have seen the pictures. I saw it happen." Cudyk' s throat was dry. "Which stars?" he said. "Torkas. Rud-Uri. That's the Oladi sun. And Gerzion. Those three, so far." Cudyk's fingers were nervously caressing the smooth metal of his wristwatch. He looked down at it suddenly, remembering that the Oladsa had made it. And now they were gone, all but their colonies and travelers on other worlds, and those who had been in space at the time. All those spidery, meticulous culture and their cities of carved opal, wiped out as a man would swat a fly. Seu took another drink. His face flushed, and drops of sweat stood out on his forehead and cheeks. He said, "They'll have to learn to kill, now. There isn't any alternative. They intercepted one of the New Earth ships and sprayed it with the stasis field. It didn't work; the ship got away. They'll have to learn to kill. Do you know what that means?" "Yes." Seu drank again. His face was fiery red, now, and he was gasping for breath. "I can't get drunk," he said bitterly. "Toxic reaction. I thought I'd try once more, but it's no good. Laszlo, look out, I'm going to be sick." Gudyk led him to the lavatory. When he came out, the Chinese was weak and waxen-pale. Cudyk tried tp persuade him to rest on the bed, but he refused. "I've got to get back to my office," he said. "Been gone too long already. Help me down the stairs, will you, Laszlo?" Cudyk walked him as far as Brasil and Washington, where two of Seu's young men took over with voluble expressions of gratitude. Cudyk watched the group until it disappeared into the town hall. He could feel nothing but an arid depression. Even the horror at Rack's mass-murders, even his pity for Seu was blunted, sealed off at the back of his mind. The lives of saints, Cudyk remembered, spoke of "boundless compassion", "infinite pity"; but an ordinary man had a limited supply. When it was used up, you were empty and impotent, a canceled sign in the human equation. Half instinctively, half by choice, Cudyk had chosen his friends among the strongest and most patient, the wise and cynical : the survivors. But he had leaned too much on their strength, he realized now. He had seen Seu crumble; and he felt as if a crutch had broken under his weight. That evening he opened his shutters and looked out at the sky. The familiar constellations were there, unchanged. The light of the nearest star took more than three years to reach Palumbar. But in his mind's eye one glittering pinpoint exploded suddenly into a dreadful blossom of radiance; then another; then a third. And he saw the blackened corpses of planets swinging around each, murdered by that single flash of incredible heat. During the night he dreamed of a black wasteland, and of Rack standing motionless in the center of it, brooding, with his cold grey face turned to the stars. had never told anyone in the Quarter the date, and had all but forgotten it himself. This morning, feeling an idle desire to know what the season was on Earth, he had hunted up a calendar he had last used twenty years ago; it translated the Niori system into Gregorian years, months and days. The result, when he had worked it out with some little trouble, was February #th. He was fifty-six. Now he was constrained to wonder whether the action had been as random as it seemed. Was it possible that subconsciously he had no need of the calendar -- that he had kept track, all these years, and had known when his birthday came? If so, why had he felt it necessary to remind himself in this oblique way? A return to the womb? A hunger for the comforts of the family circle, the birthday cake, candles, the solace of yearly repetition? Cudyk was fifty-six. When he had been fifty-five, he had thought of himself as a man in his middle years, still strong, still able. Now he was old. The same thing had happened to Seu: he had recovered from his first shock when the news had come about Rack, and for more than three weeks now he had moved about the Quarter, as quiet and as competent as before; but there was a difference. His swift, furtive humor was gone except for rare flashes; his voice and his step were heavy. It was the same with all of them, all the old settlers. Cudyk had met Burgess on the street the day before, for the first time in several weeks, and had been genuinely shocked. The man's hair was white, his skin papery, his gait stumbling. Even Exarkos showed the change. More and more of his grey, woolly hair was vanishing. The umber crescents under his eyes were a deeper shade, almost black. The Quarter's graveyard was five acres of ground, surrounded by trees, on the outskirts of the City; there the dead reclined in a more ample space than the living enjoyed. The Niori had allotted the ground, though the outline of the City was thereby disfigured, and had contributed slabs of a synthetic stone which carved easily when it was fresh, later hardening until it would resist any edged tool. The plot was ill tended, but the standing stones, translucent pearl or rose, had a certain beauty. To the Niori, the purpose of the graveyard was only that; they were not equipped to understand mankind's morbid clinging to its own carrion. Cudyk had gone to Chong's funeral, presided over by Lee Yuk, the asthmatic little Buddhist priest ; and the image of those ranked headstones, neatly separated into the Orthodox, the Protestants, the Buddhists, the Taoists and the unbelievers, had returned to him many times since. It was another sign of the change that was taking place in him: the images which formerly had dominated his mind had been pictographs of abstractions -- the great globe of infinity, the tiny spark that was creative intellect. Now they were the pale headstone and the dark curtain of death. He had felt nothing, standing over Chong's grave and watching the sod fall. What is there to say about a man when he is dead? The priest's words were false, as all such words are false; they had no relevance; the man was dead. Nothing was left of him now but the dissolving molecules of his flesh, and the fragmentary, ego-distorted memories he had planted in the minds of others. He was a name written in water. It was not Chong who obsessed Cudyk, nor the many other halfremembered men and women whose names were clumsily carved on those stones. It was the cemetery as a symbol: the fascination of the yawning void. Cudyk had one other preoccupation: he thought often of Earth, a dark globe turning, black continents dim against the grey ocean, pricked by a few faint gleams that were cities. Or, if he thought of the eities, he saw them too drowned in shadow: the shapes of tower and arch melting into night-patterns; moonlight falling faintly, dissolving what it touched, so that shadows became as solid stone, stone as insubstantial mist. For Earth, also, was a symbol of death. There had been no more suicides since Chong had died, and no riots. It seemed to Cudyk that the whole Quarter moved, like himself, through a fluid heavier than air. All motion had slowed, and sounds came muted and without resonance. People spoke to him, and he answered, but without attention, as if they were not really there. Even the recent news about Rack's defeat had stirred him only momentarily, and he had seen in Seu's face that the Chinese felt himself somehow inadequate to the tale even as he told it. The Galactic fleet, vastly expanded, had met Rack's activist forces with a new weapon -- one, indeed, which did not kill, but which was shameful enough to a citizen of the Galaxy. The weapon projected a field which scrambled the synapse patterns in the brain, leaving its victim incapable of any of the processes of coherent thought: incapable of adding two figures, of lighting a cigarette, or of aiming a torpedo. Eleven New Earth ships had been captured, and it was thought that these were all the activists' armed vessels ; there had been no further attacks since then. He did not believe that anything which could now possibly happen could rouse him from his apathy. But he had forgotten one possibility. Seu came to him in Chong Yin's, where Yin's eldest son Fu now moved in his father's place, and said, "Rack wasn't taken. He's here." Cudyk sat with his teacup raised halfway between the table and his lips. After a long moment, he saw that his hand was trembling violently. He set the cup down. He said, "Where?" "The Little Bear. Half the town has gone there already. Do you want to go?" Cudyk stood up slowly. "Yes," he said, "I suppose so." But he felt the tension that pulled his body together, he tautened muscles in back and shoulders and arms. As they reached the corner of #eskoslovensko and Washington, they saw scattered groups of men moving ahead of them, all hurrying, some frankly running. The crowd was thick around the doorway of The Little Bear when they reached it, and they had difficulty forcing a passage. Men moved aside for Seu space to move. Inside, it was worse. The stairway was solidly packed; it was obviously impossible to get through. "There isa back stair," Seu said. He worked his way toward the rear of the room, Cudyk following, until he caught sight of the bartender. The press was not so thick here, and he was able to reach the man and lead him into a comer away from the others. "Can you get us up the back way?" The Russian nodded, scowled, and put his finger to his lips. Following him, they went through the swinging doors at the back of the room, through the dark kitchen and up the narrow service stairs at the rear. The bartender unlocked the door and helped them force it open against the pressure of the packed bodies inside. The long room was heavy with the odors of sweat, tobacco smoke and stale air. Faces shone greasily under the glare of the ceiling lights. The only clear space was the tabletop against the wall to Cudyk's right, where Rack stood. Gudyk could see him clearly over the heads of those in front of him. He stood with legs planted firmly, hands at his sides. As always, the leather jacket was draped over his shoulders like a cloak. He was alone. Spider was not there, nor Monk, nor Tom De Grasse. Rack was talking in a low, clear voice. Cudyk listened to the end of a sentence which conveyed nothing to him, and then heard: "After that, we got it. They gave it to us." Rack's hands clenched once, and then opened again. "They intercepted us three minutes after we came out of overdrive in the orbit of New Earth. Twelve fighting ships, the whole fleet. We were in a line, just closing in after we broke G on the way down -- the Thermopolae, the Tours, the Waterloo, the Chateau Thierry, the Dunkirk, the Leningrad, the Acre, the Valley Forge, the Hiroshima, the San Francisco, the Seoul, and the flagship last, the Armageddon . "We didn't know they were there -- they were out of our detector range. They had us like sitting ducks. The first thing we knew about it was when a teletype report from the leading ship, the Thermopolae, broke off in the middle of a word. Five seconds later the same thing happened to a report coming in from the next ship. Three seconds more, and the Waterloo was gone. "I gave the order to reverse acceleration and scatter. But the field -- whatever it was -- came after us. It would have taken us at least two minutes to build up the overdrive potential again, and we all knew we wouldn't make it. They were getting us one ship every six or eight seconds. "The men were looking to me for orders. I didn't have any to give them. Suddenly De Grasse turned around and looked at Monk and Spider, and they all nodded. They jumped me. I don't know what happened. I struck my head against the deck when I went down, or one of them hit me with a gun-butt." His fists clenched and opened once more. "When I came to, I was strapped into a one-man lifeboat, on overdrive, doing ten C's. They must have emptied the ship's accumulators into that lifeboat, charged it up to C potential and got me off just before the field hit them. "I took my bearings, reversed, and went back. Eventually I found the fleet again. The Galactics had matched course and velocity with them and they were just beginning to tow them off, one ship to one with plenty of theirs left over, in the general direction of Altair. "They hadn't got into overdrive yet. I slipped in -- there were a hundred of their little scouts nosing around, about the same mass as my lifeboat -- and berthed in the same port I'd come out of. I got out and walked into the control room. "The crew was still there, still alive. But not men. They were lying on the deck, looking at nothing. Their mouths were open, and they were drooling." Rack's head moved stiffly, and his sharp profile turned from one side of the crowd to the other. "Mindless idiots," he said. "They couldn't feed themselves, or stand up, or sit. But they had saved me. "I built up the charge and took my time about it. When the Galactics went into overdrive, I took off in another direction. I was a good seventy light years away before they knew I was gone. "I had a ship, an undamaged ship. But I had no crew to man her. I can astrogate, and when I have to, I can man the engines on top of that. But I can't fight her as well. "I came here, put the Armageddon into a one-day orbit and came down in a lifeboat. I want to go back and find out what those slimeeaters did to us, and give them a taste of the same. I want twenty men " There was a silence. Rack said, in the same even, low voice, "Will you fight for the human race?" Someone called, "What did you do with your other crew?" Rack said, "I gave them military burial, in space." For the first time, the crowd as a whole broke its silence. A low murmur rose. Rack said sharply, "I would have given my life for those men, as they did for me, gladly. But they were already dead. If there's a way to restore a man's mind after that has been done to it, only the vermin know how. I would rather be buried in space, and so would they." A deep voice called, "Are you God, Rack?" "I'm not God," he said promptly. "Are you a man?" There was another murmur, dying as a pulsing movement began near the back of the room: someone was forcing his way toward Rack. In the stillness, another voice said thinly, "My Deme trios... my Alexander..." It was Moulios, wailing for his two lost sons. Red-faced, with a lock of black hair hanging over his forehead, the painter Vekshin squeezed through to the edge of the table on which Rack stood. He shouted, "I'm a man, all right. What do you call yourself, you assassin? You come here with blood dripping from your jaws like a weasel fresh from a poultry yard, and we're supposed to feel sorry for you because they great god Rack! Ptui!" Rack did not move. He said quietly, "I killed your enemies, while you sat at home and drank tea" "Enemies!" Vekshin roared. "You're the enemy, Rack." He put his big hands on the table-top and heaved himself up. Rack let him come. He waited until the Russian was standing on the table; then he stepped forward with a motion so smooth it seemed casual. There was a flurry of blows, none of which landed except two: one in Vekshin's midriff, the other on the point of his jaw. Five men went down as Vekshin's body hurtled into them. Rack stepped back. "I have very little patience left," he said, "but if there is anyone else here with a personal grudge, let him step up." Two men at the table's edge moved as if to climb up. Rack put his hand to the gun at his belt. The two men stayed where they were. Rack stared out over the crowd. He looked suddenly very weary. It occurred to Cudyk that he must have gone without sleep for a long time. Rack said: "This is the last call. I am not trying to deceive you. I promise you nothing, not glory, not your lives, not even that you will be able to spend your lives usefully. But if there is any man here who will serve aboard the Armageddon, in the last fight for mankind -- raise your hand!" There was a long moment's silence. Rack turned abruptly, with his hand still on his gun, and said to the men in front of Cudyk: "Stand back!" The silence held for an instant, while the men at the table's end moved uncertainly away; then sound broke like an avalanche. As Rack jumped down, the crowd surged toward him, no longer an audience but a mob. Cudyk felt the pressure at his back, caught a glimpse of Rack's face, then heard the deafening report of the gun as he went hurtling forward into the melee. The gun did not fire again. Cudyk was squeezed tightly in the center of the struggling mass. He saw Seu, a few feet away. The mayor's mouth was open; he was shouting something, but the words were lost. Suddenly Rack came into view again, charging straight toward Cudyk, hurling bodies to either side. The lower half of his face was a smear of blood ; his cap and jacket were gone, his shirt tom half away. Cudyk was half-aware of the constriction in his throat, the pounding of blood at his temples. He wrenched one arm free and, as Rack came near, struck him full in the face. He had one more glimpse of Rack's white features, the pale eyes staring at him with a curiously detached expression: the eyes of a Caesar or a Christ, reproachful and sad. Then the crowd surged once more, the door to the back stairway slammed open, and Rack was gone. Cudyk found himself running through the doorway with half a dozen others. He caught sight of Rack leaping down the stairs, just short of the landing where the narrow stairway doubled back on itself. With a regretful sigh, feeling no surprise at what he was about to do, Cudyk put both hands on the railing and swung himself over into vacancy. Then there was an instant of wild, soaring flight, Rack's foreshortened body drifting beneath him, and the shock. Dazed and numb, Cudyk felt the universe moving under him like a gigantic pendulum. He saw faces appear and vanish, felt someone push him aside, heard voices faintly. After a long time his head cleared, and there was silence. He was lying at the foot of the stairs, one arm flung over the first step. Rack was not there; no one was there but himself. He moved cautiously and was rewarded by an astonishing number and variety of pains. But apparently he had broken no bones. He felt weak and hollow; he was afraid he might vomit. He hoisted his torso up slowly, sat on the lowest step and then put his head between his trembling knees. He heard a foot scuff on the concrete floor, and looked up. It was Seu. The Chinese looked at him anxiously. "You're all right?" "Yes. I think so. I have felt better in my life." "Do you want to get up? Did you jump or fall?" Cudyk leaned forward, trying the strength of his thighs to raise him, and Seu put a hand under his arm to help. "I jumped," Cudyk said. "What happened, afterward?" "The mob came down, me in the middle, and I couldn't stop to see if you were all right. They took Rack with them. He was unconscious then ; he may have been dead." "And?" "They tore him apart," said Seu. They moved toward the exit from the kitchen, Seu holding Cudyk' s arm firmly. "I don't know if you felt this," the mayor said stiffly, "but the way it seemed to me was that Rack suddenly represented all of it -- not only the bombings, but the Quarter, the Galaxy, Earth -- everything we hated. It was a feeling of release, a kind of ecstasy. Watch out for the sifl." "Scapegoat," Cudyk said, indistinctly. "Yes  i . Zydh Oran saw it, you know. He was there when the mob came out. He saw it all. This finishes the Quarter, Laszlo. After this there won't be any more reprieves." Cudyk glanced down at Seu's plump fingers. There was a thin film of blood on the skin, and a dark line of it around each fingernail. gentle rise opposite the Washington Avenue bridge, and looked down at the Quarter. It was just after sunset, and the ranked street lights cast a lonesome gleam. The streets were empty. There was no one left in the Quarter except one man in the powerhouse. When the time was up, he would pull the switches on the master board and come out; then the Quarter would be dead. The Niori edict had come on the Wednesday morning after Rack's death. They had been given four days to pack their belongings, arrange for assignment of cargo space, and wind up their several affairs. Cudyk's stock was small and his personal belongings few; he had been ready two days ago. The evening breeze, freshening, pressed Cudyk's trousers against his calves and stirred the hair at the back of his head. Looking into the east, he saw a few pallid stars in the sky. Several hundred people had already been collected by the aircars which served the spaceport. Cudyk, Seu, Exarkos and a few others, by unspoken assent, had taken places at the rear of the crowd, to be the last to go. He glanced at Seu. The little man was standing with his hands in his pockets, shoulders slumped, staring dully at the Quarter. He looked up after a moment, smiled unhappily, and shrugged. "It's absurd to feel homesick for it, isn't it?" he said. "It was a ghetto; we had no roots there. It was cramped, and it stank, and we fought among ourselves more viciously than we ever fought on Earth. But twenty years... "We could pretend that we had roots, at least," Cudyk answered. "We don't belong anywhere. Perhaps we'll be happier, in the long run, once we face that and accept it." "I doubt it" "So do I." To Cudyk's right, Father Exarkos was sitting on his suitcase, hands relaxed on his thighs. Cudyk said, "If I were a believer, Astereos, I think it would do me a great deal of good to confess to you and be absolved." The priest's dry, friendly voice said, "Why, have you sinned so terribly, Laszlo?" "I killed a man," said Cudyk, "but that's not what I mean. I jumped over a stairway railing and stopped Rack. If it hadn't been for me, he might have got away. There would have been nothing wrong with that. He couldn't have done any more harm, one man by himself. The Guards would have captured him sooner or later, anyhow. And if he had gotten away, we wouldn't have given the Niori the one more straw they needed. In that sense, it is my fault that we were expelled." "No, Laszlo," said Seu. Exarkos said, "You have nothing for which to reproach yourself, on that score. You were only the instrument of history, my friend, and a minor instrument at that. And, speaking for myself, not for the Church, Rack deserved to die." Cudyk thought, at least it was quite suitably ironic. Cudyk, the man of inaction, hurls himself through the air to kill a murderer. And the citizens of the Quarter are deported, not because one of their Galactics, but because that same killer was killed by them. That was one thin mark on the credit side. There was one more: the tension was gone, for some of them at least. Now the worst thing that could happen had happened; the Damocletian thread had snapped. The problems which had caused the tension no longer existed. Earth was two months away. Cudyk expected nothing and hoped for nothing. But the Niori had agreed to set each passenger down wherever on the globe he chose to go ; each man, at least, could choose his own hell. The crews of the captured battleships, and the captured staff of the base on New Earth, were also being sent back. The weapon that had been used on them had done no permanent damage; they would simply have to be retrained, to learn all over again, as if they were reborn. Seu was going to North America, where he hoped survival for a fat cosmopolite would be a little less difficult than in Europe or Asia. Moskowitz had been born in New York, and was going back there. Exarkos was going to Istanbul first, (Continued on page #) llvliailS hr m Illustrated by Ernie Barth The woodsman couldn't spare Julie's beloved old tree. Down it had to come. But the religious tenets of an alien race, such as the Visgi, didn't bother little Julie... So she planted another tree in Visgi soil! but they possessed none of the tion which stated in effect, that the characteristics usually associated moment a plafnet came under Visgi with conquerors. They were not dominion the inhabitants of said cruel ; they were not vindictive ; planet must institute a re-landscapthey were not avaricious. They did ing project for the purpose of alternot plunder; they did not pillage; ing all surface features intrinsically they did not exploit. The word different from the surface features "rape" was not even in their voof the planet Visge. For according cabulary. They were conquerors beto the Visgi credo, Visge was the cause conquest was their religious Model, the First-To-Be-Created, raison d'etre . and it was the Prime Motivator's The Visgi conquered Earth durwish that all other planets in the ing the last years of the twentieth cosmos be patterned after the century, and the occupational adModel. That was why He had ministrators moved into office imcreated the Visgi, and that was mediately. The first thing they why Visgi technology went hand in did was to issue the traditional hand with Visgi religion. Fortunately, Visge was not radically different from Earth. It had seas and continents. It had rivers and plains and lakes and mountains and hills. It had a north and south polar cap and an International Date Line. On one of its northern continents there was a peninsula that could have passed for Florida. Actually there was only one intrinsic difference between Visge and Earth. On Visge there were no trees. of saws and the shouts of men. Looking out of her bedroom window she saw the movement of denim clad bodies in the green foliage of the big maple, and sawdust drifting down like yellow snow. She dressed quickly and ran downstairs. Mother was standing on the back porch, her eyes very strange. In the village below the hill on which Julie and her mother lived, maples and oaks and elms were dying like fine brave soldiers, their limbs dropping one by one in the summer morning sunlight. But Julie had eyes for her soldier only. Her swing still hung from one of the lower branches. High above her head was the special bough whose foliaged fingertips brushed her window reassuringly on windy nights when she could not sleep, and just below it was the branch reserved for robins when they came north each spring. "Mother," she asked, "what are they doing to my tree?" Mother took her hand. "You must be a brave girl, Julie." "But Mother, they hurt my tree!" "Hush, dear. They're only doing what they have to do." The first limb fell with a swishing sound. Sawdust flurried in the morning wind. Julie cried out and wrenched her hand from Mother's. There was a big man in breeches and high-top shoes standing in the yard, looking up at the men and shouting at them to hurry. Julie ran toward him, screaming. "You leave my tree alone!" she cried. "You leave it alone!" She pounded his belt with her small clenched hands. He grasped her wrists and pushed her away. His face was gray and there were dark smudges beneath his bleak blue eyes. "Damn it!" he shouted over Julie's head, "isn't this job tough enough as it is? Get her out of here. Get her out of here!" Julie felt Mother's soft hands on her shoulders. "I'm sorry," Mother said. "But she doesn't mean any harm. You see, she doesn't understand." "Why doesn't she?" the big man shouted. "She had it in school, didn't she? The Visgi held deforestation classes in every school in the world. Kids are supposed to hate trees now." "But she doesn't go to school. You see, she's -- She's not quite -- " Mother paused. The big man looked at Julie closely. Something very odd happened to his eyes. They had been like winter, and now, suddenly, they were like summer -- soft and deep and misted. He looked back at Mother. "I'm sorry," he said. "I didn't know." "Of course you didn't," Mother said. "It's all right." "I hate to take the tree down. You know that, don't you?" "I know  # Mother said. Her hand tightened on Julie's. "Come, Julie, we'll go back to the house." The big man fumbled in the pockets of his breeches. He handed Julie a quarter. "Here," he said. "You be a brave girl now, won't you?" Julie ignored the quarter. She looked up into the man's eyes. "Please don't hurt my tree," she said. The big man stood there helplessly. "Come, Julie," Mother said again. "We have to get out of the way so the men can work." Julie accompanied her reluctantly. "We'll go in and have breakfast," Mother said. "We'll have scrambled eggs, just the way you like them." "No!" "Yes, Julie." Julie cried, but Mother made her go in the house and sit at the kitchen table. The swishing sounds and the thuds of falling limbs kept coming through the open window, and the singing of saws. Mother scrambled eggs and made toast. She poured Julie a glass of milk. Julie listened to the saws. There was another saw now, a saw that sang in a loud rasping voice. Suddenly someone shouted "Timber!" and right after that there was a heavy sickening thud. Julie tried to run to the window, but Mother caught her in her arms and held her very close. "It's all right, darling," she said over and over. "It's all right. Don't cry, baby, don't cry." But Julie cried and cried. That night she dreamed of the tree. She dreamed of it the way it had been in winter, dark and forlorn, its branches charcoal tracings on somber metallic skies. She dreamed of it the way it had been in spring, with new buds filming its branches with pale green mist. But most of all she dreamed of it the way it had been in summer, a green cloud above her head as she sat in her swing, a lovely cloud with the wind sighing through it, with the sky a robin's egg blue all around it. A little girl and a cloud of a tree adrift on the top of a hill. The next day the landscape men came. Julie woke to the huffing and puffing of a giant crane. Looking out her window she saw the big claw of the crane sinking into the stump of the tree and the steel cables tightening. There was a thick ripping sound when the stump pulled loose, and a shower of dark earth. The stump came out of the ground like a grisly tooth, its roots trailing wildly below it. The crane swung the stump around and dropped it into a waiting dump truck and the truck thundered down the hill into the valley. Another dump truck backed up to the dark deep wound where the stump had been and disgorged its load of reddish Visge soil; then a bulldozer began to chug-chug, creeping back and forth across the yard like a mechanized triceratops. Julie dressed slowly. Mother was in the kitchen, sitting at the white table looking at her hands. She looked up when Julie came in. "Good morning, darling," she said. "Did you have a nice sleep?" "Will they plant a new tree?" Julie asked. "No, Julie. They'll plant grass. The kind of grass that grows on Visge." "But why, Mother?" Mother looked down at her hands again. "Because they must, dear. Because that's the way they are... Shall I scramble you some eggs?" "I'm not hungry," Julie said. The bulldozer labored all morning. By noon the ground where the tree had stood was level, and after they ate their lunch the landscape men got long rakes from their pickup truck and began raking the Visge soil. (Visge soil was restricted to hilltops where the danger of erosion was greatest.) They raked the soil till it was broken up into fine particles, then they planted Visge grass. They planted it the way the Visgi had instructed them, thickly so that the long roots would become entangled and lock the soil against the onslaughts of the rain and the wind. It was late afternoon when they finished, and they got into their truck and drove down the hill to the village. That evening Julie sat on the porch steps, staring at the naked yard. She concentrated on the spot where the tree had stood, memorizing it with her eyes. She sat there long after the sun had set, watching the shadows creep up the hill. Mother sat behind her on the rocker. Around them in the coalescing darkness crickets began their chant, and from the marshes at the end of the valley came the dissonant singing of frogs. Fireflies began to flicker in the dark blurs of bushes on the borders of the yard. Finally Mother said: "It's time for bed, Julie." "All right, Mother." "Would you like a glass of milk?" "No, Mother." "You must be very hungry. You hardly touched your supper." "No, Mother. I'm not hungry at all " The house was very still, and damp with night. Julie lay very quietly in her bed, pretending sleep. She lay there for a long while, till Mother's breathing became even and deep, then she got up and tiptoed down the stairs. She opened the door carefully and walked softly across the porch and down the steps. The moon was full and the naked yard was silver now. Julie didn't think they could have noticed the little tree. She was sure that she was the only one in the world who knew about it. She got her diminutive shovel out of her sand pail and went around to the side of the house. The tree was still there, growing very close to the foundation, hugging the concrete blocks as though it was afraid. It was as big around as Julie's little finger, it was a foot high, and it had one leaf. She dug it up tenderly, then she carried it around the house to the place where the big tree had been. She planted it carefully, patting the soil around its tendril of a trunk till it stood up straight in the moonlight. "There," she said when she had finished, "the yard looks much better now." She tiptoed back to bed. trudged up the hill early the next morning. Julie was already up and she was watering the new tree with her red sprinkling can. Mother was still in bed. The Visgi didn't trust Terrans. They didn't trust anybody. It was each Visgi administrator's responsibility to see to it that the inhabitants of the zone which he governed lived up to the letter of the Visgi edict, and the zones were small enough so that each administrator could personally check the work of his Terran landscape crew. The local administrator was typical of his race, both mentally and physically. His face was flat and he had flat gray eyes. His ears grew flatly against the sides of his head. He was wearing a flat-topped kepi. When he saw the little tree he stopped dead on his flat feet. He hated trees. He hated any plant that did not grow on Visge. It was a religious conditioned reflex. In the beginning the Prime Motivator had created Visge; then He had created the rest of the cosmos. He had intended that all of the planets should be like Visge, but during the hectic days of the Creation He had become careless and made them any old way. So as soon as the cosmos was completed He had created the Visgi and given them the Word to go forth in ships and set the other planets right. Certainly if He had intended planets to have trees He would have put some on Visge too. The local administrator strode indignantly across the newly seeded soil and towered ominously over the little tree. He reached down with one large self-righteous hand. His fingertips had almost touched the thin trunk before the Thought -- as it was later designated in Visgi scripture -- struck him. Then something else struck him. Julie's sprinkling can bounced off his shoulder, showering his face with water. "You leave my tree alone!" she said. The local administrator hardly noticed the can or the water. He was down on his hands and knees, his face close to the ground, his eyes scrutinizing the soil. But his eyes only confirmed what his mind had known in the first place: a quantity of Visge soil was always distributed whenever sizeable trees were removed from hilltops. He got slowly to his feet. His liat gray eyes had acquired a third dimension. He looked down at the little girl. "You planted this?" he asked, pointing to the tree. "Yes," Julie said, "and don't you dare cut it down!" The local administrator stared at her, the Thought sinking its fingers deeper and deeper into his Visgi brain. Abruptly he turned and began to run down the hill to the village. Julie had never seen a Visgi run before and she watched, enthralled. She was still watching when Mother called from the upstairs window and asked what was the matter. The local administrator had reached the bottom of the hill by then and was hurrying up the village street toward his headquarters. It was not a matter for a mere local administrator to handle, so the first thing he did when he reached his headquarters was to call the Visgi resident governor and explain the nature of his insight. The governor regarded him skeptically at first, his precipitate cliff of a face dark and foreboding on the telescreen; but finally he agreed to investigate the matter immediately and directed the local administrator to have everything in readiness for his official appearance. The local administrator notified the officer of the guard without delay, and the officer of the guard assembled a ceremonial detail in dress scarlet. Shortly before noon the detail marched militarily up the hill, the local administrator in the lead. He was beginning to have misgivings by then, and the governor's awesome face haunted him. Perhaps he had acted too hastily. Perhaps he had divined a religious motif where none existed at all. Certainly the Prime Motivator's ways were complex, but did not their very complexity make them all the more difficult of interpretation? And did local administrators have any business trying to interpret them at all? By the time they reached the top of the hill the local administrator was perspiring, but not from the exertion of the climb. However, he surveyed the scene with outward calm while the officer of the guard aligned the detail in two parallel scarlet rows along the edge of the seeded area. Julie and her mother were standing together on the porch steps. The little tree was standing all alone in the middle of the yard, its single leaf fluttering valiantly in the summer wind. Suddenly a shadow drifted across the hill, and the local administrator looked up. The swallow-shape of the governor's ship showed brightly in the blue sky and even as he watched it began to descend. "Quickly l" he shouted to the officer of the guard. "Obtain the Terran child and stand her by the tree so that the governor can see them both together!" At first Julie was frightened, and Mother seemed frightened too. But after the officer of the guard had explained what was about to take place, Mother said it would be all right for Julie to go with him. Mother's eyes were very bright, Julie thought; they had not been that bright for a long time -- not since Father had gone away in the silver ship and never returned. Julie liked to see Mother's eyes that way and she skipped happily along beside the big officer of the guard. She stood by the little tree while the big swallow-ship came down, and she watched while the Visgi with the awesome cliff of a face descended the spiral landing stairs. His entourage followed. There were so many of them that Julie thought they would never stop emerging from the ship, but finally they did. They formed in a group behind the governor, talking and waving their arms. They seemed terribly excited over something. The governor talked for awhile with the local administrator. Then he bent down and scooped up a handful of reddish soil and examined it minutely. He looked over at Julie and the tree, his face still like a cliff, but a cliff with the first rays of the morning sun just beginning to illuminate it. He walked across the yard to the tree. The local administrator walked beside him and the governor's entourage followed. "See how sturdy it is," the local administrator said. "How green its foliage." "As green as the hills of Visge," the governor said. "Only on Visge soil could a tree grow like that." "Truly the ways of the Prime Motivator are inscrutable!" For Visge soil was Visge soil, no matter where it happened to be, and whatever grew on Visge soil automatically became native to Visge. The Prime Motivator's ways were devious, but they were beyond questioning by mortals, even Visgi mortals. If He had chosen such an indirect method of bringing trees to the Model, there was undoubtedly a sound motivation behind his reasoning. Henceforth, trees would be planted on Visge and be permitted to grow throughout the remainder of the cosmos. The governor's entourage could contain themselves no longer. They edged around the governor and the local administrator, jostling each other in their eagerness to see the first Visge maple. But the governor did not reprimand them. The governor was staring at Julie. His face was no longer awesome -- it was filled with awe instead. For it had occurred to him that he was standing face to face with the first Visge saint.    flict may be, man's cultural and scientific heritage will be protected from destruction by a universally recognized symbol -- a blue and white shield painted on buildings and objects as a sort of "hands off" sign to enemy bombers. All the great nations of the world, fifty of them, including Soviet Russia and her satellite countries, recently signed a solemn pledge to respect this symbol. There are to be no exceptions made on the grounds of military necessity or any other practical reason. And the Russian spokesman stands on record that no possible consideration would, under any circumstances, allow their armed forces to damage the cultural property of any other power that has signed the treaty. It is a great step for so many of the world's leading powers to come to an agreement about what should be done to protect man's heritage, thereby achieving a step forward in relieving some of the barbarity of war. Our citation this month goes to France and Italy, and particularly meeting at the Hague. Illustrated by Paul Orban There is always a breed immune to mass hypnosis, and to them falls the duty of rebellion...The story, by a Brigham Young University senior, that won the second award of # in IF's College Science Fiction Contest grass sandals of the men standing on the hill. There were eight men, and they stood looking west over the burned, gutted land that lay barren before them -- barren except for a series of huge mounds that lay in a depression far out from the hills on the rocky plains. "Do you still think we can make it?" asked a stocky man with a livid scar that ran from his upper lip to his forehead. "I for one would rather live alone and meagerly than not live at all." The speaker received a stern glance from a tall hawk-nosed man wearing a finely-worked leather belt, apparently a symbol of leadership. "We have already agreed, remember, Franz? We have to succeed or disappear off the face of the Earth. You may turn back if you wish. We are going on." Franz scowled, rubbed his scar and contemplated the mounds in the distance. "You forget I have lived there. You have not. Well, maybe to be a slave is not so bad after all. Or to die." "If we die we will not go alone," said Sten, the leader. He turned to the others. "Let's go. It will be dark soon." The men moved single-file down through the hills without speaking. As it grew dark they could feel the heat radiate from the sand. They felt the heat press against them and silently praised Sten's wisdom in waiting for the cold time of year before making the attempt. They wore a tunic of coarse-woven cloth that hung loose from their shoulders, and even that single garment was too warm here. They moved in silence, Sten in the lead, followed by his brother, Johnathon, a smaller man with wide shoulders and a quick smile. A gibbous moon was showing over the mountains when they stopped. Solemnly they gathered in a circle. "We will separate now," Sten spoke softly. "Franz and Johnathon and Karl and I will enter from the south. Bradley, you and the others will find the way in from the north. You can find the place. If we're not back at our last camp by morning of the third day, go on without us. You have the map where the valley lies?" The leader of the other group nodded. "Then hurry. Until three days, then. Remember, the only hope lies in us. Some of us have to make it!" The men separated with only a wave of farewell and the two groups moved in opposite directions across the hot sands. Clouds covered the moon and it grew darker as the four men approached the edge of the mounds. An ominous sense of foreboding fell over them. It seemed they could feel the vibration of the city that lay beneath them. Beneath them lay life -- stilted, twisted, enslaved life, but life nevertheless. "Are you sure they don't post a guard?" Johnathon asked. "Against what, the Root-Diggers?" Franz spat "contemptuously. "No, they are secure. They need fear nothing." It was another hour before they found the tunnel and entered in single file. Groping their way through the darkness, they finally felt a solid wall rise in front of them. Franz made his way to the left, feeling his way along the wall until he found a large box in a niche in the rock. "It's here! It's still here after all." "Good," Sten said. "All right, everybody up against the wall and push." Karl, the biggest of the men, laughed as he eased his bulk against the obstruction. "It would be real sport," he said, "to move this wall and find one of their Steel-heads waiting for us." Franz snickered. "It wouldn't be sport long, my friend. They're trained from birth to be triggerhappy and there's nothing anyone in Panamia fears more than the outside, or anything connected with it. And we're outsiders." The wall suddenly gave before them and they moved into a halfdarkened room. Carefully, in a sort of frozen silence, they moved the wall back into place. The box had contained city clothes; and now the men worked swiftly in the semidarkness. When they were ready Franz walked up and down making final adjustments in each of their uniforms. As he finished, Sten laid his hand on his shoulder. "Franz, you'll take over now. You know what everything is like here. We're placing ourselves in your hands." Franz shrugged his shoulders almost as if he were disinterested in the drama in which they were taking part. His eyes searched the faces of the men. "So you want women, eh? You want to preserve our race -- the glorious animal, Man. Ha! I ask you to ponder for a moment, before it is too late, whether this race is worth preserving. Men have been furthering the race for milleniums and what has it come to? Consider if the earth wouldn't prosper better without Man." The men shifted uneasily. "Forget all that, Franz," Sten snapped. "You know there must be an answer somewhere. This is our only chance. Everything can't be dead." Franz looked away. "As you wish. If you're determined to go through with it, then let's start. But first, remember that you're Steel-heads, bred and raised with no other thought than to carry out the will of Him -- The Leader. His will is your will. You do not think, you only act according to orders. Don't look intelligent, that is suspect. Just stare straight ahead and do what I tell you -- or what any other officer might tell you, for that matter. Remember, don't question anything! Just follow orders." He laid his hand on the door that led to the city, hesitated for a brief instant, then swung it open. As the men entered, walking stiffly with eyes coldly searching for the unknown, they were hit by a highpitched whine that filled the corridor and seemed to pierce deep within them. The three men covered their ears with their hands and cringed. But Franz stood straight and moved his head around to catch the noise from all angles. His mouth opened and closed slowly as if he were trying to pull the shrill noise deep within him. Finally he shook his head, as a dog shakes off water, and gathered command of himself. "It is The Leader," he said in a loud voice to overcome the whine. "Soon you will not notice it. It is everywhere." Sten removed his hands from his ears and felt the noise creep over him. He shuddered, and felt beads of sweat form on his forehead as the sound seemed to gnaw at his consciousness. Soon the others were able to bear the noise with their ears uncovered, but they felt restless and uneasy. "We're lucky not to have been seen," said Franz. "Come on." They moved down the corridor in military formation, Franz leading and the others following dumbly. The corridor was small and welllighted. Doors opened into cubicles every few feet, and the wall was lined with wide view-screens that stared out, like probing and sullen eyes. The men kept their eyes straight ahead, but occasionally they flicked a glance sideways at the people that were passing them in both directions. They halted as they reached the main corridor. A loud buzzer rose above the whine, and people emerged from the doors along the walls and passed them in silence. Eyes fixed on the ground. A few talked as they went by, but none noticed the soldiers standing at the edge of the corridor. Three girls, walking in silence, paused before the men for a brief instant, then passed on. Sten felt his eyes following the girls hungrily. Catching himself, he pulled back to attention and nudged his brother at his side. "Steel-head, Johnathon, remember?" Johnathon again looked straight ahead and stifled the beginnings of a grin that tugged at the corners of his mouth. Franz also stared after the girls, but his eyes wore an amused expression, rather than the longing look of the other men. Franz spat out a curt order and they began to march down the corridor again, the crowd making room for them automatically. Everywhere posters glared at them from the walls. Some pictured a huge eye that stared out with the words, "The Leader is watching." Others showed the smiling faces of a throng of people. Underneath, in scarlet lettering was emblazoned: "Panamia and The Leader March For an hour they marched through the city, ignored by the people and apparently unaware of all that was happening around them. They passed thousands of each immersed in a grim stupor. Where the main corridors intersected they entered great assembly places where huge view-screens were set up. They were always turned on. A shrill emotional voice blared out a constant stream of propaganda. "People of Panamia, unite, work! The Root-Diggers must be repulsed! For the glory of The Leader, for the glory of Panamia, we must accomplish our utmost. We must give our all!" "For The Leader! For Panamia!" the people shouted, rising momentarily from their dull world, their eyes glazed with emotion. Banners beneath the screens announced in large crimson letters: Service to The Leader is glory to yourself and Panamia. The soldiers stood watching tight-lipped. Franz's nostrils quivered as the tumult of the demonstration thundered about them. His face took on an eager look as he watched the people shouting in exaltation, a curt movement of Sten's hand brought him back to the task at hand. He gave a short barked order and the group moved on. They had just reached an intersection and were standing awaiting directions from Franz when a shout rang out. "Stop, Provost. You! What are you doing here?" A short, ruddy-faced officer in thick-lensed glasses strode up the corridor toward them, scowling. Sten cautiously moved his head around to face the danger. "Sten, attention! He'll know," Franz hissed from the side of his mouth. Sten snapped back to attention, staring straight ahead. The squat officer confronted Franz. "Who assigned you to this block?" Franz saluted. "Security sent us to check on a disturbance near here." The officer's eyes narrowed. "Disturbance? I have heard of no disturbance." "That is of no matter. We were sent." The squat officer stared hard at Franz. "Hmm, I see. And what is your rank number, Provost?" Franz told him a number that he remembered. The officer looked them over searchingly, his lower lip protruding in obvious contempt. "Very well, carry on. But Provost, ##I remember you!" He stood watching as they marched away, rubbing his chin thoughtfully with the palm of his hand. Sten felt a sickening void in his stomach as they marched past the officer. Surely the man suspected. Would it all end right here, before they even had a chance to get started? He felt the reassuring pressure of the knife inside his belt, the one weapon that Franz had advised, and resolved that, if it should be necessary, their lives would be sold dearly. After a while they turned into a series of side passage-ways and Franz stopped before the door to one of the cubicles. The corridor was empty, and they were out of range of the view-screens. Johnathon relaxed against the wall and sighed. "What a sight. I never expected it to be as bad as this. Did you notice the look in most of their eyes? It's a dull, glazed almost dead look. They're nothing more than beaten animals." "Easy," Franz cautioned, "wait till we get inside." He pressed the button on the door. A woman's voice came through the door panel. "What do you want?" "Open. In the name of The Leader. It is a Provost." Slowly the door swung open and the men saw a small brunette standing before them. "What do you want?" she repeated in the same monotone. "Interrogation!" Franz pushed his way inside. The others followed. The woman stood against the wall cowering from the soldiers. Franz searched around the apartment carefully, then confronted the woman. "Do you not know me?" The woman stared into his eyes. Finally she said, "No, no, I don't know you." "Do you not remember Jeannine? The girl you worked with? Remember the plans? The plans to leave here and go outside to build a new life?" Her chin quivered as she tried to speak. "Yes, now I remember. You are Franz, Jeannine's lover. That was before The Leader found out and... and sent Jeannine away. You disappeared, I thought you had been sent away, too. It is hard to remember. You know we are ordered to forget the past. What... what do you want of me?" Franz motioned to the men with him, "We are from the outside." The woman recoiled with a gasp and backed even closer to the wall. "Root-Diggers!" Sten stepped forward. "No, we're not Root-Diggers. We're the men of Boru. We've come to lead you and others like you to freedom." "Barbarians!" the woman snarled. "You're planning to overthrow Panamia!" She lunged wildly at the switch that would have turned on her view-screen. Sten caught her and pushed her back against the wall. The woman screamed once before Sten slapped her, then she sobbed into her hands. "Shut up!" Sten commanded. "We mean no harm. We have come only to lead out to freedom those who wish to go." "You are against The Leader." Franz laughed. "Let's say we hope to outwit him." The woman drew back. "That is impossible, he cannot be outwitted. The Leader is all." Johnathon looked up from the corner where he was examining the view-screen. "That may be, but we intend to have a try at it." Karl, who had been leaning against the door, suddenly sat down on a hard bench against the wall. "Damn," he complained, "this whining noise gives me a headache." The woman allowed herself a moment of curiosity. "What whining noise? There is no noise." "They are conditioned to it," Franz spoke to Sten. "It's a part of their lives. We never hear the pounding of our hearts." The woman sat down on the bench and buried her face in her hands. "Tell me," Sten said, "Has she no husband?" "Husband? In Panamia there is no such thing. Everyone lives alone. When they reach maturity, they are summoned to a meeting with The Leader, and mated with him or one of his representatives. That is all. The child is raised by The Leader's nurses. It is all a very impersonal business. They never speak of it." The lights in the apartment dimmed. Immediately the woman rose and walked mechanically to a bunk set in the wall, curled up, and was asleep almost before the men could notice her. "What was that?" "Just The Leader's signal that it is time for sleep," Franz said. "Did you see how she obeyed?" "They live like clockwork," Sten muttered. Several hours later the lights came on again. The woman rose without speaking to the men, who had slept on the floor, and sat down at the table to eat. "Hey, don't we get invited to breakfast?" asked Karl, sitting up in the corner. Johnathon sniffed the air. "From the smell of it I don't think I want any." The woman looked up annoyed. "When are you going to leave? I have to go to my work. It's important to Panamia." This last was said with a fierce pride. "Will she be missed?" Sten asked Franz. "Yes, but they allow one day away for illness. The second day they check." "Don't Worry," Sten told the woman. "We will leave when we have what we came for." "And what is that?" "Freedom." "But you say freedom is outside. Why didn't you stay?" "Because there must be freedom for our children -- and for their children." "You have children?" she looked interested. "We shall soon." "Yes," she said scornfully, "freedom for the children of the RootDiggers. But you come to Panamia for that freedom!" "We told you we're not RootDiggers," Johnathon said. "You can hardly compare us with that tribe of poor devils. But even their state is better than living like a slave in Panamia." The woman laughed bitterly. "If you are not Root-Diggers, why do you come to hurt Panamia and The Leader? It is because of you people that we are warred upon and must always sacrifice." Franz rose and faced the woman. "Kathryn, you're wrong," he said. "The Root-Diggers are not warring with Panamia. They are only men and women like ourselves who have been banned from Panamia. The Leader had them purged before they were forced outside so that they are sterile and have only half their wits. They have to live like animals, eating roots and berries and bugs and insects. Those are the Root-Diggers your Leader uses to frighten you." The woman clenched her fists until the knuckles showed white. "You lie!" she screamed. "The Leader tells the truth." "No, it's not a lie. We have all seen them," Sten said quietly. The men sat in silence while the woman wept. Karl reached out and ate a bit of the woman's food. "What sort of gruel is this stuff, I wonder. It needs salt." "Salt," commented Franz, "is the greatest luxury in the city. Because of the Root-Diggers, you know. There is a grave shortage. The people crave it more than anything else and will go to any lengths to get an extra ration of it." Sten shook his head. "And they blame it on those poor beasts outside." He rose and began nervously pacing the floor. "Franz, we have to move quickly. The others will leave if we don't meet them on time. Do you think she will go with us? Will she help us get others?" "Who knows about her?" Franz shrugged. "I know some others here who may want to go. We can see them now, but someone has to stay here with Kathryn." Sten watched the hungry eyes of Karl and Johnathon as they looked at the now silent woman, sitting dejectedly at the table. "I'll stay," he said. The two men moved reluctantly as they followed Franz from the room. Sten sat in silence after they were gone, watching the woman, who was staring sullenly at the table top. He felt the pressure of the room close in on him, and wished he were back in the openness of the mountains. With a start he realized that he no longer noticed the whine unless he listened for it, and that the sound somehow created a feeling of warmth within him. He rose, slammed his fist into his open palm, and shook the woman vigorously. "Kathryn, how would you like to leave here? Go to a new land, a valley that is still green and fertile? There you could look up at the sky and live and feel free -- and raise your children free." Kathryn looked up dumbfounded. "I couldn't leave here. What would I do? Don't you know that this is real freedom? Here where we have The Leader to take care of everything for us" "No! This is bondage. Being told when to sleep and when to eat and what to eat, and slaving for a grain of salt." "Do you have salt?" she seemed incredulous. "Out there, Kathryn, you can have as much as you want. Believe me, this is no good. Where is the purpose of your life? Man wasn't born to be a slave to anyone or anything, but to build his own life. You're a woman, meant to have children, to mother them, and teach them, and love them, doesn't that mean anything to you?" "I... I don't know. I've never thought about it before." "You must think about it! Would you have it all end here? Living always at the command of an unknown voice?" The woman's eyes searched the room, as if seeking some sign of reassurance. "But... I've never thought of any other kind of life. I'm happy here!" "Happy? Being a living robot? You've never touched real happiness. Think, Kathryn. Think hard about this. It's the most important thing in the world." She turned from the man and looked at the wall. Franz and the others returned. Kathryn was in her bunk, her eyes shut, an instrument clamped to her temples. Franz breathed a sigh of relief as the door closed behind them. "Whew, that's not good for the nerves! Every time we turned a corner we ran into that officer we met yesterday. I think he's watching us." "Sten," Johnathon said excitedly, "you should have gone with us. Most of the people wouldn't even listen, but there was a girl who was interested. I've never seen anything like her, Sten. She's so soft and small and..." Karl interrupted enthusiastically. "And she has a friend that's coming with her! Her name's Stella -- I touched her and she's smoother than anything I ever felt. I... I think she may go with us." Sten and Franz stood soberly watching the child-like joy of the two men, a new joy, something unquenchable that burned deep within them. "These people are mindless fools," Franz snorted. "Most of them didn't even remember me. The Leader's forgetting treatments are pretty strong stuff, I guess. 'The Past is Forgotten, the Future is the Glory of The Leader', that's the motto." "No wonder the poor souls seem mindless," said Sten soberly. "But what about the girls they're so happy about?" he motioned to the table where Karl and Johnathon were glibly comparing notes on the girls they had met. "They didn't remember me either, but they seemed to be able to think independently. They also thought of some others who might be interested. What will we do if we get too many?" "We'll take anyone who wants to go. At least, as many as we can. The important thing is that we get enough to start again outside." He pointed to the nook where Kathryn was still curled in the foetal position. "What's Kathryn doing, Franz? She's been like that for an hour." Franz's eyes held a look of pity. "It is the one recreation that The Leader allows them. It's hard to explain exactly what it is, but you are carried away by it. It's something like a drug, yet it's mechanical. Something like music or sweet voices washes over you and you dream. For a time, you actually live." Sten shuddered. "The only reality is dreams then, eh? Tell me, are these people actually capable of love?" "It's completely foreign to them, but they are human beings, and I suppose love is innate in us all. I found it here once, you know." Sten looked away as Franz stared hard at the floor. The tension was broken by a knock at the door, and three women followed by a single man entered. When they had exchanged greetings and been seated, Sten stood up in the middle of the room. Kathryn, who had wakened from her dreaming, sat watching wideeyed. "Franz has told you why we are here. We believe the human race is doomed to slavery and annihilation unless some of us break away. My father left us a treasure of books that his father before him had salvaged from the holocaust. They tell of a way of life before the land was ravaged. It was a better way, believe me. We men have lived in Boru, a small valley back in the hills. But now we're leaving there. Long ago our father told us of a green valley to the east, high in the mountains where things grow as they did in the time before all this. We have a map; and we're going there to find freedom. We need you to keep this freedom." A hush of silence held the room for a moment, and was broken finally by the man who had come with the three girls. "Will The Leader be there?" Sten stared hard at the man. "You will be your own leader. Can't you see that? Your Leader is only an illusion! There is no leader but yourself, and perhaps the God in my father's books." The man sat a moment, then shook his head. "Not without The Leader -- I couldn't face it." "You have your choice," Franz said coldly. The man rose and grasped the arm of the tall woman that had come in with him. "Then we have no business with you," he said as he led the woman to the door. The woman looked back hopelessly as she followed the man out. "And you?" Sten asked the remaining women. The blonde girl smiled and took hold of Johnathon's arm. "I will go" They all turned to the shy-looking girl who sat next to Karl. She looked hard at the man next to her before speaking. "Yes, me too," she almost whispered. "Good. That's two. Kathryn, what about you?" She looked Sten squarely in the eye. "I've decided to stay. Why should I leave this good life to be devoured by beasts or Root-Diggers on the outside?" Sten sighed. "Then we need more. And quickly. We must leave by tomorrow night at the latest." After the women had been escorted to their cubicles, Franz led the men through the corridors toward the center of the city. In each great square they passed squads of soldiers dressed like themselves, staring straight ahead in the same unconscious way. When they paused in the middle of a hall to plan their strategy, Karl turned to Franz. "Something's bothering me, Franz. Just where do they put their dead? We haven't passed anything like a graveyard." Franz laughed. "Death is rare in Panamia, my friend. When a person grows old or very ill, he is summoned by The Leader. He never comes back. I never knew anyone to come back. As far as any one knows they're still at the headquarters of The Leader." A huge cavern-like room loomed ahead where all the main passageways intersected. In the middle of the square sat a great round building, forbidding, yet beautiful. Doors opened on all sides leading into the great domed structure. "And this is where The Leader dwells. Nice, eh?" Franz said. The men stood looking at the huge dome until it seemed to them that they were being noticed, then they passed on through the square. At the far edge, Franz suddenly stiffened. "Walk fast. Hurry," he muttered. Sten quickened his pace to keep up with the others, then felt a chill run over him as he saw the officer with the thick glasses watching them from a window in the dome. "I wonder what would happen," Karl muttered, "if a guy could get into that dome for a few minutes to play with the machinery?" "Perhaps it could be done," Franz replied. "But it would be your last act on earth. Nevertheless, it would be interesting to see what would happen to the people if the machinery stopped." Sten noted the thoughtful expression on Franz's face. The man's eyes searched the corridor, where, by listening carefully, he could hear the high whine of The Leader. Kathryn was home from her job when they returned. "Well, how is your enlistment program coming?" she asked when they entered. Sten looked at her and felt his stomach pull tight within him. "Not so well," Franz replied. "Those I knew when I was here have forgotten what they believed then or are gone. It's too dangerous to speak to many new ones." "There aren't many fools in Panamia," she retorted. Johnathon grasped Sten's arm entreatingly. "Sten, come with us, we'll see the girls. They have friends who may be interested. We only have a few more hours, let's not waste them." "No, you go on. I'll stay here for a while." "As for me," Franz said, rising, "I'll go with Karl and Johnathon. I have to check on something." Kathryn sat at the table watching Sten as , the others left. He looked away from her eyes. "You'll be alone again soon. Tell me, don't you ever get lonesome all by yourself all the time?" "I have The Leader. He is always near." "You have nothing then. Don't you realize it is nothing?" He rose and walked to the nook where her recreation machine sat on a shelf. Grasping it with both hands, he wrenched it from the wall and let it fall to the floor, smashed. She stared at it dumbly. "See! There is your Leader -- a smashed machine!" Sten shouted. He moved to her side and leaned close to her. "Kathryn, you're a woman. You're not stone! Don't you feel anything at all?" Her neck turned slowly red as he pulled her toward him. "No, I feel nothing," she said woodenly. "Is this supposed to be something special, the touch of a man?" "It can be." He put his face into her hair. Slowly he pulled her head back and looked into her eyes, then he kissed her, hard. She fought free of him and began pacing back and forth. "I don't know. I don't know. Perhaps you are right, but I don't know if I can do it." "Here, what's this?" Johnathon entered smiling. "Has there been a change of heart? Good. Then we can leave. Franz here tells me he found the lady he went looking for too." Kathryn looked again at the dream machine lying on the floor, then at Sten. She seemed to gather up strength for a brief moment. "I'll go," she whispered. "I'm glad," Sten said. "We can leave right away then. What about your girl, Franz?" "She is waiting for me," Franz smiled. "I made sure of that. But it is a long way. Give me an hour. Better yet, I'll meet you at the tunnel in an hour and a half." Franz laid his hand on Sten's shoulder and spoke in a low voice. "If I'm not there in an hour and a half, go on. I'll catch you outside." He squeezed Sten's shoulder. "Be careful, my friend. And good luck." Sten looked at the door for an instant after Franz had gone. "We must be careful. We don't want to be noticed." "Soon there will be nobody to notice us," Johnathon said exuberantly. "We can yell and run and laugh, and there will be nobody to care, not even The Leader." A silence fell over the room as he mentioned the name. Sten broke it to issue an order for everyone to gather his things. Kathryn gazed longingly round the room as the others moved out. She bit her lip with the effort it took to keep from pulling back as Sten led her from the room. They passed through the corridors without incident, stopping when they reached the intersection that led to the tunnel. They stood there at the edge of the intersection, anxiously awaiting Franz. Sten stiffened as he saw the officer that had stopped them before approaching down the corridor, followed by a soldier. The men snapped to attention and stood as if guarding the women. The officer swaggered up to Sten. "Here, what are you doing with these women?" He studied Sten's face. "Don't I know you? Ah yes, you were with that scar-faced provost that's been snooping around lately. Your actions are most out of the ordinary. I think we had better go along to The Leader's headquarters and check on this." "We have other orders," Sten stated flatly. "What! You dare disobey!" "We have orders. But look, here comes our officer now. Ask him." As the officer turned, Sten lunged forward and struck him a blow on the neck, knocking him to the floor. Instantly he fell on top of him. There was a fierce struggle as the officer tried to reach inside his tunic for his weapon. Suddenly the officer gasped. When his body was still, Sten slowly withdrew his knife from the man's chest. The soldier stood staring stupidly at his fallen officer until Karl clubbed him from behind. "We've got to get out of here," panted Sten. "Franz! What about Franz?" "I don't know. He should be here by now. But he said he'd catch us." As they fled down the corridor, the view-screens along the way were blaring the usual message of the glory of The Leader. Abruptly the voice died away, the whine faded to a diminishing hum, and there was an increasing stillness. The whine stopped and the corridors were silent. The women, terror stricken by the stillness, screamed and fell writhing on the floor. Shouts filled the corridors as panicked throngs left without the symbols of The Leader ran from their cubicles in terror. "What is it? # ' Karl shouted above the din, shaking his head to clear it. "The whining noise. It stopped." Sten gasped. "Franz! It's Franz! He must have gotten in and wrecked the dynamos." He pulled Kathryn to her feet and shook her to stop her sobbing. Then, as suddenly as it had stopped, the whine began again, slowly gaining momentum until it reached its former pitch. With this, the sobs of the women subsided and calmness slowly crept back through the corridors. "It's started again," Karl began running toward the tunnel. "They must have spare dynamos. Poor Franz, all for nothing." Again the view-speakers were blaring, this time warning the people that a saboteur had made an attempt to destroy The Leader. The women were gasping for breath when they reached the door to the tunnel. Sten plunged through the door, hurrying the others in after him, and then threw his weight against the wall. With three men pushing against it, the wall gave way and they entered the tunnel. It was night outside. They walked slowly, consoling the women, who were sobbing again at the loss of the shrill god they had known for so long. The heat that radiated from the sand was suffocating. "We have to hurry on," Sten told the women. "We can't be caught in this sand tomorrow. There are foothills ahead where we can rest." It was morning when the men, carrying the women, entered a rocky canyon and wearily slumped down in the shade of a cliff. The women barely moved, sleeping the sleep of the exhausted. "Lord, I'm tired," Karl groaned. Sten laughed. "At least we accomplished our mission. Except... for Franz." The men sat silent. "Maybe Franz fulfilled his purpose, too," Karl said. "That dynamo was the woman he had waiting for him. He probably got a lot of satisfaction out of knowing that for one minute, at least, Panamia was without The Leader." The other men didn't answer. They were asleep. They woke as the sun was going down. Sten climbed the cliffs to look out over the desert in search of the other party. He returned dejected. "They're half a day overdue now," he said. "Our food's low so we'll have to go on and hope they catch up later. Bradley has another map." He noticed the women sitting against the base of the cliff, terrified. "What's wrong?" Kathryn looked around them at the barren ground and at the clear sky stretching away to the horizon. "What's wrong? Look at this. I feel like I'm floating in air. There's nothing over us!" The men laughed. "Don't laugh," Marta wailed. "It's a horrible feeling. This emptisomething! But let's not have such silence!" Stella, the shy girl with the mouse-colored hair, began crying again. Karl gently pulled her head over on his shoulder. up through the canyon and back into the hills where the scrub trees began. All night they traveled, tearing their flesh on the jagged limbs and rocks in the darkness. Only, the occasional muffled sob of the women broke the stillness. In the morning they rested in a small valley where a trickle of water coarsed through its head. They rested under a pinion tree, the women receiving some solace from the flimsy natural roof over their heads. Sten slept three hours, then rose without waking the others and scouted ahead. He consulted his map and climbed a tall hill to search for the mountain range they were seeking. When he returned, Johnathon and Marta were gone. "He said he had to go," Karl explained. "Marta couldn't take this, and he wouldn't go on without her. He said he knew he couldn't make you understand. And asked you to take care of your father's books. He hoped that someday he could join us in the valley." "Can he stand living there?" Sten asked glumly. "Franz said once that it had been done before. I guess they don't bother you much if you obey." Sten squatted on his heels and stared out over the desert where Johnathon and Marta had disappeared, sending them a silent Godspeed. When they started out that afternoon, Stella was still sobbing. Karl tried to console her, but at every new turn they took, there was fresh terror in her eyes. Kathryn walked along with her, helping her over the rough places and trying to cheer her, but she couldn't conceal her own terror as she stared ahead at the vast distances. They rested at sundown. While the men were bringing water, Stella rose and started back down the hillside. Kathryn was thrown aside when she tried to stop her, and soon the girl was running madly down the hill, shrieking and sobbing wild!yKarl dropped his pack and ran after her, begging her to stop. But she ran on, heedless of obstacles. There was a sudden sharp wail of terror as she ran blindly off the edge of a cliff. Sten met Karl carrying her crushed body back up the hill. Karl hugged the dead girl close to him and did not look at the other man. That night, for the first time, they built a fire. Karl sat griefstricken through most of the night staring into the flames. Kathryn sat leaning against Sten during the evening, fascinated by the flickering of the fire -- the first she had ever seen. At dawn Sten awoke and nudged Kathryn. A grey squirrel was scolding them from a limb above. He laughed at Kathryn's wide-eyed surprise at the antics of the little animal. They rose without waking Karl, who was sleeping heavily in front of the bumed-out fire, and walked down to the edge of the creek. A chipmunk scampered away in front of them and a bluejay screeched from a near-by tree. A meadow-lark trilled its fine notes somewhere down the creek. They sat here at the edge of the creek-bank and leaned back on the grass. Kathryn stared to the west where a line of white clouds were playing along the horizon. "You know something, Sten? I don't notice the silence so much anymore, and the distance doesn't worry me now, either. I guess maybe there's something here after all." Sten pulled her close and smelled the good smell of green grass beneath them. The next afternoon they had nearly reached the top of the pass. They were just below timber-line. Finally, looking to the east, they saw a great empty space, with a tall mountain range rising jagged on the other side. "That's it," Sten exulted. "Fifty miles wide, and in the top of the mountains." "I'm glad," Karl said. "But you're on your own now, Sten. I'm going back." "Back? To Panamia?" "Yes. There's nothing for me here. Perhaps back there I can find something. Maybe I can take up where Franz left off. I don't know. There must be others who are not afraid of life." Silently Sten offered his hand. Karl squeezed it hard and looked into his eyes. "Good luck to you in your valley. I know where it is now, maybe some day I can return. And perhaps Bradley and the others will make it yet. Until another day then..." he turned abruptly, and started back down the mountain. Sten and Kathryn, hand in hand, watched him disappear through the trees. When they could no longer see him, they lifted their eyes to the hidden valley. They saw, even from this distance, the lakes that lay scattered through it, and the winding lines of cottonwoods that grew along the rivers, and the plains where the green and grey of the sagebrush blended. Sten breathed deeply of the crisp air and let his breath escape in a low whistle. "It was worth it, wasn't it? It's ours. And we won't always be alone, Kathryn. Others will come. Man is not dead. It may take a while, but others will come." The woman slipped her arm around the man's waist and they stood for a time looking out over the valley. Then they started the long descent.    Jerome Bixby, is the story of a small band of old people who defended their mouna wonderful characterization of two aliens puzzling themselves over the behavior of The Chicago Time Capsule was indeed an elaborate production. The greatest of American acting, writing and electronics went into its story of Man, #, for future historians. And, centuries later, it was dutifully recovered. Only... er Space dug into the pile of moldering rock, they found the metal capsule their senses had told them was there. Battered and corroded though it was, the shadow vibrations showed that it had once been smooth and shiny. As smooth, shiny and impervious to wear as Twentieth Century Earth technology could make it. At the time the Mayor of Chicago had ceremoniously tossed a handful of lake sand into the hole, had his picture taken smiling against the skyline, and had moved away to let the workmen fill the hole with cement and place the marker, the Time Capsule had been bright with the hopes of civilization sending its proud present into the uncertain future. Time passed... The tiny radio transmitter in the capsule began throwing out its wide signal at the exact instant planned for it many centuries before. No one heard. Eventually, the tiny powerful batteries gave out. The signal died. Time passed... When the Travelers from Outer Space took the capsule back to their ship and opened it, they found the contents in perfect order. Even the reel of magnetic tape had not succumbed to the centuries. In due course, the Travelers examined the tape, divined its purpose, and constructed a machine that would play back the recording. possibilities in a Universe of planets, the chances of two intelligent races being even roughly similar are astronomically remote. A being develops sense organs for no other reason than to make it aware of its environment. The simplest primitive being's awareness of its environment centers around food, its means of survival. It develops organs and appendages that will enable it to ferret out, obtain and ingest its food. As the food differs, so, then, does the eater. The Travelers had no ears or eyes, as such. They had other organs for other purposes, but the net result was that they "saw" and "heard" quite as well -- even better -- than Earthmen. Perhaps that explains why the Travelers gleaned so much more from the tape recording in the Twentieth Century capsule than its originators had planned or intended. Not just any radio show could be placed in the Time Capsule. What picture of contemporary # mankind would the men of the future derive from a soap opera? A news analysis? Or top comedy show? Certainly not a flattering one, and so, reasoned the brass in charge of the project, not a true one. No, the only answer was to produce a special documentary program, painting on a broad canvas the glories that were the common man's birthright in an enlightened democracy. As July #th was only a month away, the idea was a natural. The program would be carried simultaneously on four networks, then placed in the Time Capsule so that historians of the future would have something solid on which to base their conclusions. A famous poet-radio writer was hired to write the script. Hollywood's greatest young male star donated his services (with much attendant publicity) as narrator. A self-acknowledge genius who directed radio shows for a living condescended to lend his talents to the production. Numerous other actors, musicians, technicians and assistants were hired... none wellknown, but all quite competent. July #th, the big day, arrived. The cast went into rehearsal early in the morning. By the second complete run-through, just before the break for lunch, the show was hanging together nicely. After four hours of polishing in the afternoon, it was ready to go on the air. Everyone's nerves were raw, but the show sounded great. Naturally, when a room full of creative people have been rubbing against one another for a full day, a lot of emotions are generated. The listening audience never knew about it, but it took the actors, directors, musicians and technicians several days to get the session out of their systems. During rehearsals, the young Hollywood star developed a consuming lust for one of the minor actresses. One of the minor actors developed a consuming lust for the young Hollywood star. Everyone immediately hated the director, and he, lofty and allwise, contemptuously hated them in return. By eight o'clock that night, show time, the splendid documentary on the splendid American people was not the only thing that was at peak pitch. It was the only thing, however, that the radio audience heard. It was magnificent. Future students hearing the tape could not but conclude that here was the Golden Age. Man, at least American man, circa #, noble, humble and sincere, was carrying in his bosom the seeds of greatness. Difficulties still existed, of course, but they were not insurmountable. A few deluded people seemed to be working against the common good, but the program left no doubt that this would be cleaned up in short order. The millenium was at hand! When the Travelers from Outer Space, who were a team of historians doing research on the history of life throughout the Universe, listened to the tape recording, their "ears" heard none of the program as it had been originally broadcast. They were no less fascinated, however, for what they heard was the thought patterns of the people who had been connected with the program. These thoughts, in the form of electrical impulses, were also recorded on the magnetic surface of the tape, and were the only sounds audible to the Travelers. What a pity these future historians didn't get mankind's version of the life of mankind in #, after the producers had gone to so much trouble to tie it up in a package for them. Their conception of Earth culture was based on the thought impulses they "heard", and their History of Earth was written accordingly. The last paragraph is worth noting: "In the main, it is quite fortunate for life in the Universe that these primitive people destroyed themselves before they learned how to leave their planet. Lustful, murderous and guilt-ridden, they are perhaps the worst examples of intelligent life that we have ever discovered. And yet, paradox supreme, they had one quality that we ourselves would do well to emulate. That quality we can only surmise, for nothing on the recording spoke of it, yet it is obvious, for if they hadn't had this quality, there would have been no recording left for us at all. " How strange that these tortured people should practise an unparalleled example of Life's highest achievement... complete honesty with themselves and others."    A tool is but an extension of a man's hand, and a machine is but a complex tool. And he that invents a machine augments the power of mankind. -- Henry Ward Beecher What Is Your Science I. Q.? in space. However, you've encountered the answers numerous times in IF and in other science fiction magazines. Count # for each correct answer and see if you can hit a score of #. The correct answers are on page #. #. The farther from the sun a planet is, the its speed as it goes around the sun. #. Oxygen and whajt other element are the chief elementary constituents of the Earth's crust? #. What is the name of the process which is based on the direct use of the sun's energy to produce life? #. How far away can the world's largest telescope (Mt. Palomar) detect the light of a single candle? # How fast would a rocket have to travel to escape the gravitational pull of the Earth? #. Radon is a heavy, , gaseous element. #. Which planet ranks second to Venus in brightness? #. How old do astronomers estimate the Moon to be? #. The arbitrary, fundamental number of a number system is called a #. The density of the atmosphere on the planet Jupiter is estimated to be how many times that of Earth? #. Which element is the fuel for the sun's radiant energy? #. By what names did the ancients once call the planet Venus? Illustrated by Paul Orban McCullough was not a native lover , nor was he particularly bull-headed. He just felt there was a certain difference between right and wrong and nobody was going to change his mind. Take that Sunday afternoon... afternoon, in the alley back of John McCullough's house. McCullough was in at the start of it, and he was in at the end. Sunday is thirty hours long on Centaurus II, as are all the other days of the week, of course; and in summer, at the latitude of Port Knakvik, the afternoons are very long indeed. John McCullough that Sunday had finished hanging the windows in the log house he was building, and now he was relaxing on the back stoop with a bottle of local whiskey. The whiskey was distilled from a native starchy root, and had a peculiar taste, but it was alcoholic, and one got used to it. In the kitchen McCullough's wife was getting Sunday dinner on the new inductor stove, still marvelling at its convenience -- back on the farm they had cooked with wood. The two children were playing in and out of the house. His neighbors, Henry Watts from across the street, and Pete Tallant from next door, had been helping him with the windows, and now they were helping him with the bottle. They were discussing the native question. In a way, this was the beginning of the riot. "It's not that I got anything against them, in their place," Henry Watts said. "Their place just ain't in an Earthman's town, that's all. They keep crowding in, first thing came down to Knakvik to work on you know there'll be more natives the spaceport the new federal than there is Earthmen, then you colonial government was building, just watch out. They're snotty and it was not his nature to worry enough already in their sly way, about problems which did not diyou let them get the upper hand rectly concern him. Mostly, he liked once, mark my word, it won't be to mind his own business, it was safe for a woman to walk down the characteristic of McCullough that street." his friends came to visit him at his "Yeah, I guess so," McCullough house, he did not go to visit them, said. He was really not much in"What the government ought to terested. His people were from the do," Watts said, "it ought to take flats upriver from Knakvik, a longthe whole bunch and round them settled country where the first up and put them away on a reservacolonists had been brought two tion somewhere. You can't civilize a generations before to form the nugrayskin, they ain't even human to cleus of an agricultural community, start with, so why try?" He had never seen more than half "Nuts," Pete Tallant said. Where a dozen native Centaurans until he Watts was a redneck miner and construction worker; and McCullough a fanner picking up a little easy money on a temporary job; Tallant was an intellectual, a dark restive young Earthman working his way around to see how Earth's far colonies looked. Watts' yapping irritated him, but there was no point in arguing against that sort of brainless conviction, he knew. He stared gloomily off at the mountains across the river, rising clean and snow-capped above the shanties and garbage piles of the transient workers who had overflowed the city to camp on the flats along the river; thinking: Just over a hundred years ago this planet was first discovered by men. Less than sixty years ago the first colonists were brought here. They came to a brand-new planet, almost as naked as the day they were born -- two hundred pounds per colonist, including their own weight -- with a free hand to build a new world as they pleased. And already the same old pattern, hate and distrust and envy, greed and oppression. How many men on Centaurus II? Perhaps a hundred thousand. How many native Cenplanet larger than Earth. But not enough room for both -- "You think I'm prejudiced," Watts said heavily, the need of the frontiersman to justify his opinions before the cosmopolite rankling in his voice. "Well, I ain't. I just know those buggers, that's all. You greenhorns come out here from Earth, you figure you got an answer to everything, just because we don't have the schooling you got, we're a bunch of fools. Ain't that right, John?" "Yeah, I guess," McCullough said absently. The next thing to do, he thought, now that they had inductor power from the central station, was to get running water in the house. Plastic bubbles and tents and shanties and hauling water from the pump were well enough for bums and single men, but a family man might as well be building a decent home while he was about it. There would always be rental value in a good house here in town, especially with the new spaceport and the government moving here; and later, when the kids had to go to high school, it would be handy. Some day, too, he would be retiring, turning the farm over to Jimmy, he and Mary would need a place to live then. "The old ones ain't so bad," Watts said. "They know their place, and they remember what happened at Artillery Bluff. But some of these young bucks, especially the smartalecky kind the government has been sending to school -- " He shook his head forebodingly. "Nuts," Tallant said wearily. "Let's talk about something we can all be stupid about, huh? Women or baseball or something." Watts flushed. "# know what I'm talking about now, and I didn't get it out of books, either, I've lived with the buggers. You greenhorns read all this sob stuff in the highbrow magazines back on Earth about the noble Centaurans, and you figure we're a bunch of jerks because we don't slobber all over them too. Noble Centaurans! Jesus! Dirty, sneaking non-humans, that's what." He lifted the bottle and drank deeply, tilting back his head and letting his eyes rove. "There," he said abruptly. "There's your noble Centaurans, look at 'em!" A group of natives were coming up the alley -- in Port Knakvik, natives did not walk in the street -- shuffling along with downcast eyes. They were a small gray-skinned people, roughly humanoid, viviparous but not mammalian. There were five males followed half a dozen steps behind by a female carrying ap infant on her hip. "You see that kish there with her fotin?" Watts asked. "Lemme show you something, you probably wouldn't believe this if I told you, these grayskins are just like animals, they got no decency at all." He stood up and waved an arm in a beckoning gesture. "Hey, you kish, come over here," he called. The female Centauran paused uncertainly, looking at him with frightened eyes out of a small triangular noseless face. "Yes, you," Watts barked. "Come here!" She glanced at the males ahead of her, who had also stopped and were looking at Watts from the comers of their eyes. One mumbled something to her. She began to shuffle slowly across the yard toward Watts, looking at her feet. Watts took a steel fivedollar piece from his pocket and held it out toward her. "Here, you kish " he said, "feed baby, viptiv fotin, get money." The native took the coin and looked doubtfully at the three men. "Viptiv?" she asked in a light high voice. # "That's right," Watts said. "Viptiv fotin" He grinned at Tallant. "Watch this, kid, you want to see your noble Centauran do something'll really make you gag." "Oh, for Pete's sake," Tallant said. "I know these people feed their young by regurgitation. So it's disgusting to mammals? So what?" He jumped down from the stoop and took the Centauran mother's arm and turned her gently around. "No viptiv " he said. "Run along." Watts' face was almost purple now. "What the hell you think you're doing?" he shouted. He grasped the female's other arm. " Viptiv " he gritted in her face. "You took my money, now viptiv !" "Let go that woman," Tallant said, "or I'll push your face in." He turned toward the group of males, who still stood stupidly staring. "Come on over here," he called. "Take your woman and get out." One of them started reluctantly across the yard. Tallant dropped the native woman's arm and stepped past her to face Watts. "I told you to let go," he said. Watts thrust his face out. "Make me, wise guy." Tallant hit Watts in the face with his fist. Watts was a big man, and tough. He shook his head, wiped his nose, looked incredulously at the blood on his hand, and let out a roar of rage. It was not much of a fight. Watts' first blow dazed Tallant, the second knocked him down, and before he could get up Watts stepped in and kicked him in the head. The Centauran woman still stood where the men had left her, wideeyed with confusion. She ran awkwardly over to Watts, shoving in between him and Tallant's prostrate body, and pushed the five-dollar piece at him, chattering excitedly in her own tongue. Watts twisted the money from her fingers and shoved her roughly down on top of Tallant. "There, you goddam native-lover," he roared, "get a real good whiff of one once, see how you like iL " She was still carrying the baby, she tried to shield it as she fell, but her body twisted and she came down heavily on it. The baby screamed, a high-pitched, nervetearing sound. The male who had started back to get her pulled a long sharp knife from somewhere beneath his rags and broke into a trot, his eyes beadily intent on Watts. McCullough had started down off the porch when Watts put the boot to Tallant. He changed his intent and ran in behind the native, and hit him solidly with his fist in the back of the neck. The native went sprawling and his knife flew out of his hand. People were turning to look and popping out of tents and shelters all around now. "Why, that dirty native," Watts bellowed, "he tried to knife me!" He stepped over to the Centauran and kicked him savagely several times. The other four males had been watching open-mouthed. They turned abruptly and started back down the alley the way they had come, but there was a small knot of men there, watching them. The natives paused uncertainly. One broke away and ran toward the street, between McCullough's house and Tallant's tent, and the others followed. Most of the Earthmen had no idea what was happening. The closer ones could see a couple of natives and a man lying on the ground, another man with a bloody face shouting something about knifing, and four natives running. "Head 'em off!" someone called. "They'll get away in the street!" That was how the riot at Port Knakvik started. chasing the natives, perhaps with some idea of explaining, more likely not -- he was in a half mindless rage of excitement with the whiskey and the fighting. McCullough was left alone with Tallant and the two natives. The native woman seemed unhurt, she was picking herself up and examining the infant, which still whimpered. Tallant was unconscious. McCullough picked him up and carried him into the house. His wife was standing whitefaced at the door. "Get some water," he said. He laid Tallant on a cot and began to wipe off his face. There was a scalp cut where Watts' boot had clipped him, most of the blood was coming from that; but it was high and it did not feel like a fracture. Presently Tallant groaned and shook his head and opened his eyes. The pupils did not look bad. "How do you feel?" McCullough asked. "Rough," Tallant mumbled. "Rough. Side... hurts..." McCullough pulled up the shirt and looked. There was a swelling purplish bruise on the chest. He touched it gently and drew a gasp of pain. "Looks like maybe you got a cracked rib," he said. "Get me some tape, will you, Mary?" He took the roll of tape and wound it tightly about Tallant' s chest. "That'll hold till you get to a doctor," he said. Tallant drew a light experimental breath. "Feels better," he said. "What the hell happened anyway?" McCullough told him. "That's bad," Tallant said. "That fool Watts could touch off a real riot, there's plenty more around here with no more brains than he has, and just spoiling for trouble. Somebody ought to get the marshal's office working on it before things get out of hand." He took the wet rag he had been holding to his head away and examined the cut with squeamish fingers. "Have to get this stitched up too, I guess, before it sets up hard. Look, could you back my truck out into the street? I don't feel up to driving, but if I get it in the street, it can take me in to the dispensary on auto, and I can call Administration from there." There were very few private vehicles in Port Knakvik, or indeed anywhere on Centaurus II; but Tallant, who was an electrician, had a company panel which he drove to and from the job. Though it was chemically powered -- the new inductor station was the first nuclear installation on the planet -- it had the same cybernetic controls as any Earthside vehicle. They worked fine on paved roads. On Knakvik streets, however -- "I don't know," McCullough said dubiously, "You think you can make it on auto? Suppose you get stalled?" Port Knakvik lay on a silty alluvial plain. In the downtown area, the streets were stabilized, but back along the river where the shanties of the construction workers sprawled, they were simply ruts punctuated at frequent intervals by chuckholes where churning wheels had ripped off the overburden, exposing the bottomless muck beneath. "I'd go with you," McCullough said, "except I kind of hate to leave Mary and the kids right now -- I tell you, maybe I could find somebody else. You lay down for a minute, take it easy, I'll look around." Tallant seemed to have guessed right about the riot, there were people running by outside toward a commotion at the lower end of the street where the native shanties clustered. McCullough saw a man he knew from the job. "Hey, George," he called, "you got time to do a little favor?" He explained about Tallant. The man had not yet been in any fighting, he was simply curious about what was going on, and this was part of it. "Sure, John," he said. "Be glad to." They helped Tallant into the truck. George backed it out into the street on manual. "What's the dispensary coordinates?" he asked. "Three-two-three, oh-one-five, local," Tallant told him. George pushed the keys and they started off toward town. McCullough turned to see what he could make out of the excitement at the other end of the street. There were two columns of smoke billowing up now, and scattered shots. Two men came back up the street helping another with his trouser leg split away and a bloody bandage about his thigh. "What's it all about, John?" A man called across the street to him. "Don't know. Fighting with the natives, I guess. Henry Watts and some other fellows chased a couple of them down there. Looks like they mean to clean the whole bunch out." "Dammit, that's not right," the man across the street said. "The natives got a right to live too, they had a village here before we came. Somebody ought to do something about it." "Pete Tallant just went into town to tell the marshal." "Yeah, well, I wouldn't holler copper on my neighbors myself, but I won't have anything to do with They can get along without me." The man went back in his house and closed the door. McCullough walked a few steps out into the street to get a better view. The riot was none of his business, and he had no intention of getting mixed up in it, but the idea of the fighting excited him and made him nervous. He could not see much, except that there was a lot of activity. He shook his head helplessly. My God, he thought, all this from two men with nothing to do on a Sunday afternoon but get half-drunk and start arguing... scream, suddenly choked off! McCullough ran back across the yard and up the steps, raging at himself for having left Mary and the children alone in the house. There was no one in the front room, but through the kitchen door he could see a native with his back turned, peering out the kitchen window. McCullough's gun was hanging over the door, on pegs set into the logs, a gun made from the first steel smelted on Centaurus II. He reached down the gun as he stepped in the door. There were two natives in the kitchen ; one with a roughed-up look who might have been the one Watts had kicked, watching Mary as she huddled in a corner by the stove with her arms about the two children; the other still looking out the window. Both spun around to face him as McCullough burst into the room. For a moment they eyed each other in silence, the two Centaurans and the Earthman. "You hurt, Mary?" McCullough asked. She was frightened almost speechless, but she managed a squeak and a negative shake of her head. McCullough took his eyes from the natives for a moment and studied her searchingly. "You sure?" he asked. She nodded. Some of the color was coming back in her face again now, and she looked all right. He looked back at the two natives. He should have them arrested, he supposed, but to file a complaint meant going to court and losing a day's work. It did not even occur to him to hold them for the mob. He gestured with the gun muzzle. "OK," he said roughly. "Get out of here, now. Get!" The natives looked at each other. Outside, there was a rattle of shots in the alley, and several highpitched screams. The native by the window wet his lips and shook his head, and the other turned back toward McCullough. He had a knife in his hand, which he swung menacingly. "No," he said. "No go outside. Kill." It was not clear if he meant the verb passively or actively, but with the knife not six feet from Mary and the children, it did not seem a proper time to discuss fine points of grammar. McCullough shot him in the belly. At that range, the charge almost tore the slight native in half. The other Centauran turned and came lunging toward him, and McCullough fired again. The native stumbled and fell in a heap in the middle of the floor, half across the body of the first. McCullough stepped over them to the back door and glanced out, dropping fresh charges in the gun as he did so. There were no natives in sight but several white men were in the alley, looking around, trying to decide where the shots had come from. Henry Watts was with them. He saw McCullough at the door and called out to him: "You hear those shots? Two of 'em ran back up this alley. You see them?" "They came in my house," McCullough said. "I shot both of them." "Good, by God," Watts yelled. "That's two we don't have to worry about." "There's one more left," another man called from up the alley. "He ducked around through Gordon's lot." The men ran off up the alley on the new scent, and McCullough turned back into the kitchen. Mary had collapsed into a chair and was sobbing with her head in her arms. The two children clung to her, staring wide-eyed at the bodies of the natives. McCullough walked over a'nd patted her on the back. "It's OK now, Mary," he said. "It's OK, nothing to worry about now." His wife went on crying, and he stood there awkwardly, not quite knowing what to do. He noticed that the dark purplish blood of the natives, almost black, was spreading in little rivulets and pools over the kitchen floor. The floor was of sanded white wood, and stained easily. There were some folded tarps in the lean-to where McCullough kept his tools. He got one and rolled the bodies over onto it. As he did so, he saw that one of them, the second one he had shot, was still alive. The shot had gone low and mangled the native's upper leg. He stared up at McCullough with opaque expressionless eyes, slowly bleeding to death. It was an embarrassing situation. McCullough was not any more callous than the next man, but he found himself wishing his aim had been better. He could hardly allow the Centauran to lie there and bleed to death while he watched, but neither did he feel any particular responsibility in the matter. The native had got what he was asking for, and that was that. Finally he took the native's leather belt and tightened it around the leg for a tourniquet, got another tarp and spread it on the cot, and laid the native on it. The corpse he rolled in the first tarp and pushed under the cot. Throughout the injured Centauran said nothing, either in thanks or protest, although the leg must have been painful. He had just finished when he heard voices in the front yard. Henry Watts was there with half a dozen other men carrying guns and clubs, all looking the worse for wear. Two were dragging a Centauran corpse by the pants legs. Watts mopped at his sweaty, blood-stained face with his shirttail. "You still got those two grayskins in there? ,, he asked. McCullough nodded. "Fine, we'll take 'em off your hands now." Watts half-turned to the men behind him. "Come on, give me a hand to drag 'em out." He started up the steps. "Wait a minute," McCullough said. He did not move out of the door, he was not quite sure why, a moment ago he had been wondering what to do with the natives, and here was Watts offering to take them. It may have been the way they were dragging the Centauran, face down in the mud, that bothered him. "What you going to do with them?" he asked. "We got a use for 'em," Watts said with relish. "We're going to drag all the bodies up in front of Dubois' place and string 'em up to poles there, for a warning. We'll learn those gray skins what to expect, they come messing around here any more. Come on, toss 'em out, we'll take these two along with the rest." "Well, I don't know," McCullough said. "One of these is still alive, I didn't kill him, just crippled him." Watts showed his teeth. "That won't be a problem," he said. McCullough shook his head slowly. He had counted Henry Watts as his friend, but he was not so sure now that he liked him. "No," he said. "I think we better just leave them till the cops come." Watts laughed. "Cops? There ain't going to be any cops coming. We're handling this ourselves. Don't worry about the cops, even if they could get an indictment, there ain't a jury in this town would convict "I'm not worrying about that," McCullough said stolidly, "but I don't like what you fellows are doing, I might as well say right now, and I'm not going to be a party to it. Those natives stay right where they are till the law comes and gets them." Watts' grin faded. "John," he said, "we ain't fooling. I know you're no native-lover, but we're going to clean those devils out once for all. If you won't let us in for them, we'll come in anyway and take 'em." McCullough shook his head again. "This is my house. Henry, you've been my friend, but I just shot two people for coming in here without knocking." Watts looked around at the men behind him. Most of them knew McCullough. They did not seem taken with the idea of breaking into his house. Watts swung back to McCullough. "John," he said ominously, "you're just making trouble for yourself, that's all." McCullough simply shook his head and stood blocking the doorway. Watts glanced around at the other men again. One of them shrugged self-consciously and turned away, and after a moment the others trailed after. "All right," Watts growled. He shook his fist under McCullough's nose. "All right, John McCullough, I'll remember this, and I'll be back. Native-lover!" He spat on the step and went off after the others. McCullough watched them go, uneasy under his surface stolidity. He liked to be on good terms with his neighbors, not enough to give in to them on anything he felt strongly about, but he knew this would be held against him, and it worried him, more for the sake of Mary and the kids than for himself. He sensed his wife standing behind him. "What did they want?" she asked. He told her. "But, John, why? Haven't we had enough trouble today? Do you have to get in a fight with your neighbors over a stupid native? What difference does it make to you?" McCullough shook his head helplessly. "I don't know. I just don't like the idea, that's all." His wife stared wordlessly at him for a moment. She went into the kitchen and sat down at the table and began crying again. The children ran to her and began whimpering also. McCullough prowled restlessly about the living-room, stooping now and then to peer out the windows as men shouted and ran by. The native lay silent on the cot, unmoving except for his eyes which followed McCullough. McCullough stopped and studied the Centauran resentfully. Goddam natives, he thought, all they cause is trouble. He bent over and loosened the strap on the leg until fresh blood started to ooze out and then tightened it again. The Centauran winced a little and closed his eyes briefly, but made no other sign. Ought to have morphine, McCullough thought, but would morphine work on a Centauran? He didn't know. He pulled a chair over to the window, where he could watch both doors and the cot, and sat down with the gun across his knees. The riot was apparently still booming along. Men trotted by outside now and then, singly or in little groups, calling to each other. Once several went by with another Centauran corpse slung hand and foot to a pole. There were no women or children in sight, those houses with blinds had them down, the tentflaps were tightly drawn. There was no indication of any attempt by the authorities to halt the riot. Possibly Tallant had not gotten through, or possibly Watts was right, the Administration was keeping hands off. After a while Mary came in and stood by the chair. Her eyes were still red, but she was no longer crying. "You want something to eat now?" she asked dully. "The roast is done." "Yeah, I guess so," he said. He avoided her eyes. She fixed a plate and brought it to him and sat down to watch him eat. "You think there'll be more trouble?" she asked. "They surely won't bother us again, will they?" McCullough chewed thoughtfully. He thought there would be more trouble, but he did not like to worry his wife unduly. "Well," he hedged, "that Henry's kind of a bull-headed fellow." "Don't you be bull-headed too, John. I know you have to do what you think is right, but please be careful." He reached out and took her hand in his. "Honey, I'm sorry. I know it's mighty tough on women sometimes, but a man just can't give in on some things, that's all." He looked down, pleased as always by the contrast of her small, pale, delicate fingers lying in his large blunt chocolate-brown hand. The contrast seemed especially important today, for reasons he could not quite place. Was there some special significance in a black man married to a white woman, a black man setting his will against white men, not as an enemy, but as an equal? Back a couple of hundred years ago, he knew, on Earth -- but the thought eluded him, he was not a very articulate or subtle thinker and he could not pin it down. "Don't you worry, Mary," he said, "it'll turn out all right." Watts came back. McCullough was checking the tourniquet on the native's leg when he heard a commotion in the street outside. "John McCullough," a voice bellowed. "Come out!" Watts' voice, McCullough thought. He picked up his gun, but then he thought he would not feel right facing the men outside, who were after all his neighbors, with a gun in his hands. He looked around. The double-bitted axe he had been using to trim the logs around his window-frames leaned against the wall by the door. "Get in the bedroom, Mary," he said. "Pull the mattress off the bed and lie down behind it with the kids." He took the axe and walked out the door onto the steps, squinting his eyes against the setting sun. The street was full of men in front of his house, perhaps half a hundred or so. Watts and a short stout man stood halfway up the path to the door. McCullough studied them in silence. "Well?" he said finally. "This man here's a deputy marshal, John," Watts said. "We'll take your prisoner and that body now, if you don't mind." The stout man grinned placatingly. "That's right, Mr. McCullough, I've deputized Mr. Watts here and several others to help restore order. We've rounded up all the rioters except that one you've got in there." "You got a warrant?" McCullough asked. "Well, no, I don't really think -- " "Then get off my property. Go on, get!" McCullough came down the steps and began to walk slowly toward Watts and the marshal. "Get out of my yard!" he said. He did not raise his voice. "You're bucking the law now, John McCullough," Watts warned. "Get out of my yard!" McCullough said again. He was about three steps away from Watts. He took another step. Watts had been carrying a pistol in his hand. His arm started to swing up. McCullough let out a wordless bark: " Haugh !" and the axe flipped in a short swift arc. He stepped over Watts' body, the axe again dangling limply from his hand with a few thin threads of blood spattering from it. "Get out of my yard!" he said. The nearer men backed away slowly, not really frightened, but uncertain. Single men have faced down mobs many times, but more have been killed by them. In a saner moment, McCullough may have known this, but his ductless glands were in full control now. He did not really care, he rather hoped, if he thought at all, that there would be a fight. He knew he could kill any man who stood against him. Off to one side, a dozen yards away, a man tentatively lifted a pistol. McCullough caught the movement from the corner of his eye and turned and began walking toward the man, head a little forward, bright, slightly unfocussed eyes intent in his expressionless face. The men between the two moved back, leaving a clear path. The man with the pistol glanced to either side and saw he now stood alone, all alone. There is a nightmare some men know -- the implacable deadly-eyed enemy coming with the red, wetly gleaming steel while you stand all alone with the pistol that poufs weakly with the bullets dribbling from the muzzle. The man jerked the trigger and spun about and ran without waiting to see where his shot had gone, and the charge snapped two feet over McCullough's head. McCullough turned again toward the main body of the mob and walked slowly forward, his eyes searching the faces around him hungrily. "Get out of my yard!" he said woodenly. The men he faced were not cowards, few men on that world tives all afternoon, their blood was up ; but this was different, this was one of their own kind they faced now. If they had been able to see him as another outcast, as a traitor aiding the enemy against them, it would have made things easier. In spite of what Watts had said, however, they knew this was not true. McCullough was not a 'nativelover', he was not upholding the Centaurans, what he was upholding was the right of a citizen to hold his own opinion and keep his home as his castle -- two rights which are extremely important in any frontier culture. It put them in a very difficult moral position, and the physical pressure of McCullough's steady advance did not give them much time to settle the dilemma. Half a dozen men were elbowing their way back through the press now, the marshal had disappeared, there was no one to start things, and they kept fading back. McCullough never varied his pace, but the distance between him and the nearest man increased steadily. He stopped in the street before his house, but the mob kept moving under its own momentum for another fifty yards, and some still kept moving. A knot of perhaps a dozen stopped at the corner and muttered among themselves for a few minutes. One man started to raise a gun, and another knocked it down. They stood there a little longer, and McCullough leaned on his axe watching them, and then they moved off after the others, men dropping off here and there as they passed their own homes. The riot was over.    Illustrated by John Styga Eva was the emotional problem which, indirectly, quite possibly caused the second problem, a rather baffling field force trap, which was a scientific one. Now, sometimes, if you solve the second first, you get the first second... "And this is the gadget..." His square bright face under its close-cropped blond hair was animated. He seemed on the verge of reaching up to hook a finger in the lapel buttonhole of Jack Hendrix's sportcoat to pull the taller man down into a position where he could shout into his ear. "You aren't listening!" he protested now. "Buddy! Jack! Pay some attention. Or has that crumb teaching job got you to the point where money doesn't mean anything to you any more?" Jack Hendrix's long, heavyboned face almost blushed. "I'm listening," he said. He hadn't been, of course. This was merely one more piece of evidence to add to the mounting pile of proof that he was totally incapable of doing anything right. He had been mooning instead over Eva Guen, whom he had lost some months back. But they had passed her in the corridor on their way to this small, hidden workroom, and something in the way she had looked at him had set him spinning again. Peculiarly, there had been what Jack could have sworn was a hurt look in her eyes, in that brief moment that they looked at each other in passing. Why there should be a hurt look in her eyes, Jack could not understand. She was the one who had left him to come to work for Paul -- and very sensibly, too, he told himself, self-righteously, but with the same old twinge of unhappiness. Eva had been his graduate teaching assistant at the University where he taught physics. She was tall and quiet-faced, with startling wide blue eyes under soft blonde hair. Quite naturally, he had fallen in love with her. And it was then the trouble started. For from the moment Jack was forced to admit to himself that he was in love, he had to take an unbiased look at his chances of doing something about it. And that look was crushing in its effect. For in the process of assembling Jack Hendrix, a somewhat devastating oversight had occurred. Whatever minor god had been in the supervisory position that day had carefully mixed strength with intelligence, added just a pinch of genius and a sort of ugly-handsome good looks, but had totally forgotten at the last moment to install a governor on Jack's imagination. The result was that Jack was a dreamer. And the result of that was that he, with three degrees to his name, and a couple of honoraries of various sorts lying around, continued to vegetate in his teaching job, while Paul, in his typical hyper-thyroid fashion, was already managing his own commercial research labs. Not that the comparison was strictly fair. Paul had always been more promoter than physicist. And Eva had gone out of Jack's life to a better job with Paul's outfit. Not that that had anything to do with his accepting Paul's offer of a job as consultant on a little problem he claimed to have on hand at the moment. "I'm listening," said Jack. "Praise Allah," said Paul. "No one knows about this but you and me. It's top secret. My top secret." Women, of course, thought Jack were naturally secretive. They looked at you with unfathomable blue eyes and waited for you to make the proper move. But how could you make the proper move if you didn't know what they were thinking? That was why he had never gotten around to telling Eva how he felt about her. And then one day she was gone. He didn't blame her, even if without warning it had exploded -- " -- Exploded?" stammered Jack, guiltily. "Well, er -- when did that happen?" "Are you sure you've been listening?" said Paul, suspiciously. "I just told you. A couple of weeks back." He went on to explain the circumstances while Jack listened with one ear, the image of Eva flickering like a candle luring his moth-like powers of attention in the back of his mind. He forced himself to concentrate. "But what happened to the man you had working on it?" he asked. "And what is it, anyway? You still haven't told me that." "You mean Reppleman?" said Paul, quickly. "He had a nervous breakdown at the time of the explosion. Got a complete block on the whole thing, and now, they've got him in a nursing home." A flicker of genuine interest stirred for the first time in Jack. "Oh?" he said. "How come?" "Well, that's the thing," said Paul. "I'm going to trust you, Jack. I've got something here that's worth more money than there is in the world today; and I'm willing to give you a slice of it if you can work this thing out for me. But we've got to have secrecy. "Right at this moment, you and I are the only ones who even know this room has been entered since the explosion. I rebuilt the generator myself from Reppleman's records. And nobody, but you and I, knows we're back here today. The rooms at the back of the building here are all storerooms except this one." "Generator?" said Jack, for a second momentary instant distracted from the lorelei mental image of Eva. "A generator," said Paul, slowly and impressively, "of an impenetrable, planar field of force. Gome over here." The image of Eva went out as abruptly as if someone had dropped a candle-snuffer over it. Jack blinked and followed Paul, as he led him up to the equipment in question. The small room which housed it was right at the bleak northern end of the labs and terminated one narrow wing of the building. It was Lshaped, with the generator in question tucked away in the narrow recess of the foot of the L. The length of the long part of the L, at right angles to this, was strewn with odds and ends of tools and equipment piled on two long benches fastened to the wall. Along the end away from the recess was the door that gave entrance to the room; and just to the left of this as you entered, at the end of the long part of the L, was the room's only window, open at the moment to the summer breeze and the gravel expanse of the parking lot behind the labs. His mind for once wholly concentrating on the subject at hand, Jack followed Paul into the narrow cubbyhole that was the recess and listened to the other man's explanation of what was before him. It was not true, that Jack could not focus on a problem. It was merely that a thing to hold his attention, must first arouse his interest. Once it had, he dealt with it with almost fantastic effectiveness. "You see," Paul was explaining, "it's a very simple sort of circuit. It's easy enough to produce it. The question is to handle it, after you've produced it. The initial power to run it comes from this storage battery hookup. That's all we need." "Then what's the catch?" asked Jack, his nose half-buried in the creation's innards. "The trouble is that once it's turned on, there seems to be a sort of feedback effect. Well, no, that isn't quite right. What it seems to do once it's turned on is tap some other source of power that's too much for it. It overloads and you get the explosion." "But while it's on you have a plane of force?" "That's right." "How long?" demanded Jack, his long fingers poking in the wiring. "You mean from establishment of the field to explosion?" replied Paul. "About half a minute, as far as I can figure from Reppleman's notes and what I could reconstruct about what happened the day it blew up on him." "You haven't tried it since you rebuilt it?" asked Jack. "Do I look crazy?" demanded Paul. He put his hand on Jack's arm. "Listen buddy, remember me? The boy with the crib notes up his sleeve at exams?" Half-lost in the machine before him as he was, Jack felt a sudden little stir of warning. Paul was anything but stupid ; and when he went into his dumb-bunny act, there was usually a joker somewhere in the deck. But before he could concentrate on the sudden small danger signal he ran across something that drove it out of his mind. "What's this?" he demanded, pouncing on a part of the apparatus. "Oh, that," said Paul. "Just a notion of my own. Obvious answer. A timer setup. You set it, say, to turn the field on for perhaps a tenthousandth of a second, then turn it off again. I'll let you play with it." Jack frowned. "Where are the notes?" he asked. "I'd like to see just what -- Reppleman, you said his name was? -- had written down." Paul grinned and shook his head. "Not so fast. First I want an answer from you on whether you think you can tame this baby for me or not." "But how can I tell without the background?" protested Jack. "Won't cost you a cent to say no," replied Paul. "Don't look at me like that, Jack. Sure, I know I'm handing you a pig in a poke. But this thing is too big to take chances with. Do you want it or don't you?" Jack hesitated. He was strongly tempted to tell Paul to take a running nosedive into the nearest lake, and walk out. Then he remembered the long life of financial ineptitude that had climaxed itself with losing Eva; and his good resolutions to mend his scatterbrained ways. "All right," he said. "I'll have a shot at it, anyhow." "Good boy," said Paul. He patted Jack's arm, in a way which was somehow reminiscent of approving a large, shaggy dog. "I'll be in my office. You know where that is. If you want anything, just hustle me up." He gave Jack's shoulder a final slap and strode out. on one of the long workbenches, filled his pipe and considered the problem. The situation was peculiar to say the least. Paul's odd insistence on secrecy; and Eva's strange look when she had passed him in the corridor. And this story about the man who had developed the generator. Typically, it did not occur to him to doubt the generator. Jack was one of those men who have entertained the impossible in their minds so often that there is little reality can do to surprise them. So it blew up did it? Jack puffed on his pipe and stared at the generator. But -- hold on a minute -- if it blew up and when it blew up it sent a man named Reppleman to a rest home, could it have blown up more than once? And if it had blown up only once it must have been turned on only once, and if that was the case, how did Paul know that it had produced a plane of force? Of course he had probably known the theory Reppleman was working on. And what was his purpose in keeping that theory a secret from Jack? In fact, if the dingus worked, how did it work? Jack returned to the mass of equipment and wiring and began to prowl through it. After a while he stopped and scowled. Nine-tenths of the junk in the setup was mere window-dressing. The only thing about it that could possibly have any effect or function was an oddly wound coil of ordinary silver wire upon a core of some strangelooking silvery metal. Jack tapped this latter with a fingernail and it rang with a faint, light-sounding chime. By the time this point was reached his interest had been captured. On a hunch he disconnected everything but the coil on its peculiar core. He disconnected the timer, Paul had attached to the apparatus, hesitated a second, then made contact by crossing the two lead-in wires. Nothing happened. He disconnected the wires and sat back to think. After a moment, he reached out and felt the winding on the coil. It was metal-cool -- air temperature. On second thought, he connected the timer and set it to allow a warm-up period of fifteen seconds. At the end of that time the timer should activate the coil for the period of a ten-thousandth of a second. Nothing happened. Jack chewed the stem of his pipe. Once more he disconnected and felt the winding It was faintly warm -- but barely so... Now let me see, said Jack to himself. We run two sorts of power through this thing. One, low power and steady. To warm it up? That's what I assumed, but there's no indication of it. On the other hand this timer is definitely set to give a sudden short pulse of relatively high current. I tried the high current direct. No result. I tried a short period of low current. What's next? After he had smoked another pipeful of tobacco, all that occurred to him was to lengthen the warmup period. Let's do it right, he said to himself. Let's give it a good five minutes. He turned it on once more and set the timer for another ten-thousandths of a second jolt at the end of five minutes of low power. It occurred to him that the two upright metal poles, about two feet in length, between which the field was supposed to be generated might be too close to the coil, and he moved them out to the full length of their wiring, so that they were now actually in the long part of the room. He glanced at the timer. Almost four minutes yet to go. He wandered down the long part of the room and stood gazing out the window. There was his car, sitting beside the row of others on the gravel of the parking lot. And there, farther down the row was Eva's. They were the two oldest cars on the lot. You'd almost think we had the same taste in automobiles, thought Jack, a trifle wistfully. Neither of them is worth much -- Abruptly, without warning, his traitorous imagination slipped its restraints and began to build a picture of Eva coming out on to the lot, seeing his old car not very distant from hers, and being overwhelmed by a flood of memories. He pictured her coming out the back entrance of the building as he stood here watching. She would walk across the lot with her smooth, lithe stride, toward her own old grey, four-door sedan. But partway there, her steps would falter as she caught sight of his equally ancient blue business coupe. She would not, of course, say anything, but she would stand there; and he, seizing the moment, would step from this window down onto the gravel only a few feet below and approach her. The sound of his footsteps crunching the loose rock would warn her of his coming; and she would turn to look at him. She would neither move nor speak, but stand waiting as he came up to her and then -- He was just opening his mouth to speak to her in imagination, when unexpectedly from behind Jack there came the sound of a soft, insidious, click... nothing had happened. The parking lot lay unchanged before him in the sunlight with its row of cars and the sky blue above them dotted with distant clouds. And then he tried to turn around and found he could not, with the slight movement of his effort the scene before him dissolved into a grey field streaked here and there by lines of various colors. He froze, suddenly, and the scene came back to normal. He reached out to grab hold of the edge of the window to steady himself ; but with the first movement he was plunged into greyness and his hands caught nothing. Once more he steeled himself into immobility, and for a moment he hung on the edge of panic. What had happened? Slowly, he forced his mind back into control of his body and its emotions. Steady, he told himself, steady. Think it through. As calmness returned he became suddenly and icily aware of two things. The first was that everything within his field of vision appeared somehow artificially frozen into immobility. Just what gave him this impression he was not able to understand. Part of it was the air. A small breeze had been bathing him as he stood in front of the open window. Now, there was nothing. The atmosphere around him was like intangible glass. The second thing was the discovery that he was no longer standing with his feet on the floor, but lying crosswise athwart the window, in mid-air, at about the former level of his waist. For a moment he was astounded that he had not realized this immediately. And then reasons began to appear to him. The first of these was the sudden realization that gravity appeared to have altered respective to his position. He felt not at all as if he were lying on his side, but as if he had remained quite normally upright. And another discovery following immediately on the heels of this was the sudden perception that while his body seemed to have moved, his point of view had not. He still looked out at the parking lot from the angle of vision of a man with both feet normally planted on the floor. All of these, of course, were things that held true only as long as he remained perfectly still. The moment he attempted to move all his senses failed him and he seemed to swim in a grey mist. The conclusion was a very obvious one. Somehow, the generator had worked to produce its plane of force. And somehow he was caught in it. The explosion should come at any moment now. For one hideous moment he suffered death in imagination. Then reason returned to point out that the half minute Paul had mentioned as the time limit had undoubtedly been passed already. Still, it was a little while before he could completely fight off the tension of his body, bracing itself in expectation of the rending force that could strike at him from behind. In the end it was his imagination that saved him. For long habit had made it independent of the rest of him; and it's first move, once the facts of the matter had been grasped and the immediate danger of explosion discounted, was to draw him a very clear and somewhat ridiculous mental picture of himself as he must appear to anyone who might enter the room, floating broadside as he was, in thin air. It reminded him suddenly that positions were no respecters of persons ; and he remembered almost in the same instant of what the White Knight had had to say to Alice on the subject after resting headdownward in a ditch. And so, by way of the ludicrous, he scrambled back onto the firm ground of his everyday sanity... He was caught in a force field. Very well. And what could he do about it? The obvious answer was to turn around, go back to the generator and turn it off. And the one flaw in this plan was that he couldn't apparently, for some reason, make the turn. On the other hand, he was able to make some movements. He experimented, waving first an arm and then a leg, cautiously. Barring the fact that the slightest motion caused the room to appear a nightmare of streaks and lines in a grey field, there was nothing unusual about the effects of these motions. The room? He became suddenly aware that he seemed to have rotated around a center-point somewhere in the region of his belt buckle. He was now no longer looking out the window, but turned at a slight angle toward the bench on what had been the wall at his right hand. Filled with sudden hope, he closed his eyes firmly and took what should have been a long stride forward and up. When he opened them again he was staring back into the room, down the long length of the L. For a long moment he hung, carefully motionless, considering the implications of what he had just done. It seemed apparent, he thought, that what he had actually accomplished was to turn himself about the way a paper figure would be turned on a turntable -- the difference between this and ordinary methods being that as he was now facing in the opposite direction, his head was now where his feet had been and vice versa. Or, to orient more exactly by existing landmarks, where the force field had flipped him into position with his head toward the right wall, his rotation had changed him so that now his head was toward the opposite wall, the one originally on his left. Conclusion? Jack winced. The field itself appeared to be a two-dimensional phenomenon; and he, himself, caught up in it, to be restricted to two-dimensional movement. For a second the thrill of panic came back, and he was forced to fight for a moment before he could go back to looking at the situation sensibly and calmly. The field appeared to be on a level with his waist as it had been when he had been standing normally upright. That was, in effect, level with the tops of the upright rods that had been supposed to generate the field between them. Hah! -- between them, thought Jack, bitterly -- And a few inches above the level of the benches. As he looked down the length of the room he noticed that whatever had touched the plane of the field at any point seemed to have been, like himself, caught up in it. He noticed a hammer and a soldering iron, both of which had been hanging from hooks on the left wall, now floating stiffly at right angles to it. Furthermore, there seemed to have been some sort of polarity involved. In both cases the end which had been upright was at the left and the down end out at the right -- that was, of course, from his present point of view -- and corresponded exactly with the fact that his own head had gone to the right, and his feet to the left. But that was enough observing. The thing to do now was to get to the generator and turn it off before something else happened. Jack closed his eyes and made three quick steps, right foot first left foot following, toe to heel. When he opened them again he was mildly surprised to discover that he was still a little short of the end of the room, but a couple more steps solved that problem. He rotated himself through a ninety degree arc and stepped up into the narrow alcove that noused the generator and the timer on a bench at its far end. He banged his head on the wall and blinked with the shock of it. He opened his eyes and looked down at the generator. With a sudden, sickening sense of shock, he realized that it was below him, and therefore outside of the plane of the field. His desperation was strong enough to make him reach for it, anyway, and to his surprise it seemed almost to flow upward to reach his fingers and his fingertips pushed against a short length of wire, which bent before them. As they did so, there was a sudden flare of red light, from the coil and he snatched his fingers away as he noticed that that part of the generator was apparently red hot, glowing into incandescence. The whole apparatus, in fact, seemed to quiver on the point of exploding into flame. Curiously, however, there was no sensation of heat emanating from the coil; and what was apparently a wisp of smoke, rising above the generator and out of the field, seemed frozen in midair. Cautiously Jack retreated slightly from the generator. Two things were immediately apparent. One, that the generator was evidently a part of the field, and reachable, even though it had not been in the original plane as he had. Two, that he had better be careful how he went about shutting it off. It struck him somewhat belatedly that Reppleman's explosion had probably occurred through mishandling the generator when it was in its present state. No, the way to turn the generator off was the way it had been turned on -- through the timer. He looked at the portion of the generator and bench that lay below him but did not see the timer. Then he remembered that this was the left side of the bench at the alcove's extremity and that the timer was at the right. Carefully he rotated to the right as far as the narrow width of the alcove would allow him and out of the corner of his eye, caught a glimpse of the timer on the bench far to the right. The position was an awkward one, but he was in no mood to consider comfort. It might be interesting for a while to be the two-dimensional inmate of a single plane, but the novelty wore off quickly. He pushed his head into the right hand corner of the alcove and started to reach back past his hip to the timer. It was impossible. For a moment he hung still, stunned. Then as the truth penetrated, he had to restrain an urge to burst into hysterical laughter. Of course, being two-dimensional he could not move the line of his hand past the line of his body, any. more than a normal three-dimen-' sional person in a three-dimenj sional world can lie on his side on a flat floor and duplicate such an action without moving either floor or body. As long as he re-, mained an inhabitant of the force field, he would never be able to reach behind his back. Around his feet or around the top of his head, yes, but behind his back -- never, i For a moment he yielded again to panic and scrabbled around, trying to find a position from which he could reach the timer, but the alcove was too small to allow him his necessary two-dimensional turning radius. He stopped finally, and common sense came to his aid. Of course, the thing to do was to back out where there was room and turn around, so that he could come in facing in the other direction. He moved back out into the long part of the room, mentally berating himself for having lost his head. He closed his eyes and rotated. He was getting quite used to this business of blinding himself while moving and made a mental note that eventually he must get around to keeping his eyes open just to get a clearer picture of what happened, when he did move. Reversed, he stepped back up into the alcove. He opened his eyes to find himself not in the alcove but against the wall of the long room opposite the alcove. For a moment he stared in puzzlement, then understanding came. "Of course," he said. "I'm reversed. I'll have to step down " He did so. Two steps down took him into the alcove. He opened his eyes to find himself finally facing the corner which housed the timer -- but his feet were the parts of him next to it, and his head and hands were away from it. This is ridiculous! he thought. One way it's behind my back and the other way it's down by my feet. He crouched down, trying to squeeze himself into the corner close enough so that he could reach the timer. But it was no use. The alcove was too narrow to allow him to put his feet in the opposite corner and lean far enough over so that his hands could manipulate the timer. The sort of person who can bend over and put both hands flat on the floor could have done it easily, but Jack, like most males of more or less sedentary occupation, was not in that kind of shape. He tried kneeling, squeezing himself as tightly into the right hand corner as he could. But here the earlier prohibition of his two-dimensional existence came again into effect and he was blocked by his own knees. Not only did he have to reach around them, but they blocked off his view of the timer. In a cold sweat, he finally gave up and backed put into the relatively open space of the long part of the room. It was fantastic. There was the timer directly in front of him. A touch of the finger would shut it off, for he could see its pointer frozen on the mark where it had turned the generator on. And it was a part of the field like the generator wire he had touched, so presumably he could move it. Yet, because of the restrictions of twodimensional space, it was out of his reach. To Jack, a born and native threedimensioner, it seemed grossly unfair; and for one of the few times in his life he blew up. After having cursed out forcefields, force-field inventors, all known physical laws, the generator, Paul, and himself for being a damn fool and daydreaming when he should have been watching the timer, he found himself feeling somewhat better. From being excited, he suffered a reaction to calmness. Let's look at this sensibly, he told himself. He reminded himself that he'd been acting like a wild animal caught in a trap, rather than a thinking man. The thing to do was to make an effort to understand what it was that had hold of him rather than just fighting it blindly. If he could not reach the timer, he could not reach the timer. What other possibilities were there? One -- somebody, say perhaps Paul, would eventually come in and perhaps he could turn the timer off. Jack shook his head. No, whoever stepped through the door of the room would probably be caught up in the field the way he had been. If indeed, the field was limited only to the room and did not extend beyond its walls already. Jack brightened. If the field was bounded by the room, then all he had to do was get out of it -- Painfully he maneuvered himself around until he was facing the door. The doorknob was below the field, but he had hopes of hooking his fingers onto the door's loose edge and pulling it open. It was a hope that was doomed to disappointment. Jack discovered that in two dimensions you could push, with fingertips, but not grab. The door, presumably because it was hinged to the walls outside the scope of the field, was strictly immovable. It appeared to be a rule that whatever was loose and touched by the field, was picked up by it, but whatever was attached to anything else beyond the limits of the field was not. It did not strictly make sense, because where do you draw the line of attachment? His body was attached to his limbs and his limbs had been outside the field. A matter of relative mass? Concluding this to be an unrewarding field for speculation, Jack returned to the matter of field size, and at that moment it suddenly dawned on him that all this time the window at the end of the room had been open. If he could get out through that and beyond the limits of the field -- The wish was father to the act. Hardly had the thought occurred to him before he was jockeying for position in line with the window. He got it -- back in the same position in which he had first found himself when the field caught him up -- and simply walked out, presenting the unusual spectacle of a man strolling through mid-air while lying on his right side. It was all so easy that for the first time he found cause to wonder about the fact that the walking motion enabled him to progress when he was apparently doing nothing more than flailing the empty air. He experimented a little and discovered that he had the sensation of pressing back against something whenever he moved. Apparently the field had some kind of substance of its own, or a type of tension that reacted like an elastic skin when pressed longitudinally. As soon as he was free of the building he rotated abruptly and walked sideways alongside it. His hope was that the field would be cut off by any solid obstacle. He traveled for some little distance before he admitted to himself that this hope was vain. Cheerfully, the field continued to buoy him up and imprison him, even when he reached the street in front of the labs. The street was unusually silent and deserted. For a moment he considered waiting until somebody came by to help. But his natural shyness and sensitivity to embarrassment overcame the idea, and he turned back to cruise once more along the side of the building peering in the windows, with the hope of locating Paul himself, or at least someone connected with the labs. The windows on the back and the side he had been down were all closed and the door had taught him that there was no use dealing with any three-dimensional object unless it was, like him, caught up in the field. He crossed past his own open window and started down the far side of the building. Here there were several open windows, but they all gave on empty offices. But toward the front he came to one through which he could glimpse figures, at the far end. Without hesitation, he closed his eyes and stepped through the opening. When he opened his eyes inside the room, he was astonished to see a tableau that was more than even his overactive imagination had ever conceived. Before him were Paul and Eva. They stood facing each other in a small room that seemed to be a sort of combination office and laboratory. Paul was leaning forward and his hand was on the smock-sleeved arm of Eva, who was pulling away from him. For a moment the implications of the scene did not penetrate. When they did, Jack went skidding through the air toward the two figures, too angry even to remember to close his eyes. When the grey field winked away to reveal the room in its proper dimensions again, he found himself floating in mid-air beside and a little above them. This room was evidently lower than the one from which he had started ; and he glared down at the top of Paul's stubbled head and cut loose. It was a fine exhibition of sizzling language, punctuated by flashes of streaky greyness, when in his excitement he forgot himself and moved or jerked his head. But when at last he began to run down, he was somewhat astonished to discover that neither of the people below had moved or shown any reaction to his presence. They had not even looked up. In fact, Paul was still clutching Eva's arm and Eva was still leaning backward. They had not moved at all. An awful suspicion struck Jack with the impact of a solid fist to the pit of the stomach. He had assumed until now that the timer had somehow stuck at the position in which it activated the generator, that no explosion had taken place because he had been careful after that first crimson flare not to monkey with the working parts of the generator. It had not occurred to him that the field in restricting him to two dimensions might really have restricted him to two dimensions. Frantically he rotated until he was able to spot a large electric wall clock above the door of the room. Its hands were frozen at twelve minutes after two, and the long sweep-second hand stood motionless a little beyond the figure #. He rotated back to where he could view the two people below. On the thick wrist above the hand that held Eva's arm was a large gold wristwatch, and this also stood with its hands immovably at twelve minutes after two. Jack was caught, not merely in a single plane, but in a single instant of time. Up until now he had not really despaired. Always in the back of his mind had been the notion that even if he failed completely, sooner or later someone would come to his rescue. Now he realized that no rescue was possible. realization. Possibly because he was the kind of man who does survive, the sort of person who by birth and training has been educated to disbelieve in failure. It was just not in him to accept the fact that he was hopelessly trapped. And particularly in support of this was the discovery he had just made about Paul and Eva. He looked down at them, with a sort of bleak clarity of understanding that he had never succeeded in obtaining before. He realized now that he had been -- for all effective purposes -- blind while Eva had been working with him at the University. He had introduced Paul to Eva himself some six months back when the other man had dropped by to see him on one of his occasional forays into the academic area in search of likely hired help. Jack had not considered the introduction important. It had not occurred to him that Paul would find Eva the sort of woman he would want. In fact if anyone had asked him about such a combination, he would have thought it rather funny. The two, by his standards, were opposite as the poles -- Eva, with her cool depths, and Paul with his violent surface huckstering. It had not aroused Jack's suspicion that Paul should visit frequently during the months that followed, and that his visits should stop with Eva leaving the U. No, Jack had been blind to the possibility of anyone else wanting Eva but himself, obsessed by the battle with his inner shyness that twiddled its thumbs and hoped vainly for a fortuitous set of circumstances that would do his wooing for him. Paul might not have the inner strength that had just brought Jack through where poor Reppleman had foundered, but he had push, and guts enough in his own way. While Jack dreamed, he had carried off Eva; and now, at this late date Jack was finally waking up to the fact that where the mating instinct is concerned we are still close enough to our animal forebears to have to fight for our partners on occasion. He swung around and made his way once more out of the room. He needed space to think. Once more in the bright sunlight outside, in the eternal out-of-doors of twelve minutes after two on a warm June afternoon, he continued his survey of the situation he was in. But he returned to it with the cold, dispassionate viewpoint of the trained mind. He marshalled the facts he had learned about his situation and considered them. They amounted to the following: He was involuntarily imprisoned in what appeared to be a plane of two dimensions only and of unknown extent. He was kept prisoner by a device operating at this moment. The natural restrictions of movement in two dimensions, plus a matter of his original position in the plane, prevented him from reaching the means by which he could shut off the device. Problem: How to shut off the device? He returned to the room housing the generator and examined it. He studied the objects that, like himself, had been caught up in the field. He could not grasp any of them, but he could push them around within the limits of the field. It would, he thought, probably be quite possible to push the hammer, say, into the core of the generator and short it out. Also, probably quite fatal, if Paul had been telling the truth about the explosion. Reppleman had probably done some such thing. But he was in a rest home now with, again according to Paul, a complete block on the whole business. Still, the hammer possibility might be considered as a last-ditch measure. "I have only begun to fight," quoted Jack softly to himself. He studied the two upright rods from the top ends of which the field was generated. A thought occurred to him and he measured the distance between them (about three feet as nearly as he could estimate by eye) and the length of the room to the window in front of which he had been standing. He remembered that it had taken him more steps than he had expected to reach the generator from the window. He checked this and discovered that the first step back from the window was about the length of his normal stride, but that the second was only slightly more than half that, and the third diminished in proportion. He returned to the window, went through it to the outside, and checked his stride in the opposite direction. His first step out from the window in a direct line away from the rods of the generator was not quite double his normal stride. With the next it doubled again, and half a dozen steps saw him sweeping over the countryside with giant's steps. On impulse he closed his eyes and continued outward. After a few more steps he stopped and opened his eyes to look. Earth lay like an enormous, white-flecked disc below him. Space was around him. For a second, instinctively, he tried to gasp for air, then realized with a start that he was not breathing, nor had he been breathing for some time. Such things, evidently, were unnecessary in two dimensions. He looked back down at Earth then ahead into space. Reppleman had gone mad at the end and wrecked the generator. But Reppleman was Reppleman; and he was -- Jack. Moreover he had a score to settle back in his normal world. And he had every intention of getting back to settle it. How far, he thought, had Reppleman wandered, before he had come back to destroy the thing that held him? The thought was morbid and he shook it from him. Firmly he faced away from the world and strode outward. For a moment he twinkled like a dot among the stars. And then he was gone, stepping into enormous distances with everincreasing stride. workroom behind him and turned left in the corridor outside. He went down the corridor, counting doors. At best it would have to be a guess, but if his estimate was right the room he wanted should be -- This one. He pushed open the door and stepped in, interrupting two people in the midst of an angry argument. For a moment they stood frozen, interrupted and staring at him, and then Eva literally flew into his arms, while Paul's astonishment faded to a bitter smile and he sat down on a comer of the desk beside him and crossed his arms. "Oh, Jack!" choked Eva. "Jack!" Jack folded her in his long arms almost automatically, with a feeling of bewilderment that gradually gave way to one of pleasure. He had never seen the calm, self-contained Eva moved like this before; and the corresponding role it demanded of him was rather attractive. He felt sort of contented and self-righteous ; and at the same time as if he ought to do something dramatic, like, say, picking up Paul and breaking him in half, or some such thing. At that, however, it was Paul who got in the first punch. "She's worried about you," he said, dryly, jerking a thumb at Eva. "You are?" demanded Jack, looking down at her. "Oh Jack!" said Eva. "You mustn't do it. You don't know how dangerous it is!" "What is?" asked Jack, becoming bewildered again. "The field," put in Paul, as dryly as before. "Oh that," said Jack. "Well -- " "You don't know what it's like," interrupted Eva. "I was here when they took Max Reppleman out after the explosion. Jack -- " "Never mind that," said Jack, strongly. "Paul said you were worried about me." "Jack, please listen. That whole business is dangerous -- " "You wouldn't be worried about me unless you were -- well worried about me," said Jack stubbornly. His blood was up now. He had almost lost this girl once to Paul through hesitation and delay. "Eva -- " He tightened his grasp on her -- "I love you." "Jack, will you lis -- " Eva stopped suddenly. Color flooded her face. She stared up at him in shocked speechlessness. "Eva," said Jack, quickly, taking advantage of this golden opportunity and talking fast. "Eva, I fell in love with you back at the University, only I was always looking for the right chance to tell you and I didn't get around to it because I was afraid of making some mistake and losing you. And when you left and went to work for Paul I gave up, but I've changed my mind. Eva will you marry me right now, today?" Eva tried to speak a couple of times but no sourjd came out. "The whirlwind lover," said Paul somewhere in the background. "Well?" demanded Jack. "Jack, I -- " trembled Eva. "Never mind," said Jack, breaking in on her. "Because I won't take no for an answer. Do you hear me?" He paused for a second to be astonished at his own words. "You're going to marry me right away." "Ye gods!" said Paul. He might have saved his breath. Neither one of the other two was paying attention to him. Jack let her go, and looked at Paul. "Paul -- " he said. "Yes sir ! # responded Paul, getting up from the desk and popping exaggeratedly to attention. Jack looked at him with the jaundiced eye of a conquering general for his defeated rival. Though temporarily vanquished, this man was still potentially dangerous. Proceed with plan B? asked the front part of his mind. Proceed with plan B, responded the back of his mind. "Paul," he said. "Fve got the answers for you on the field." Paul's ironic pose slowly relaxed. A wary, calculating look came into his eye. "What?" he said. "I'll show you," Jack said. "Come on with me. You too, Eva." And he turned on one heel and led the way out of the room. "You see," said Jack, "you were wrong in your picture of what the generator does." They were all three standing in the little L-shaped room and Jack had just told them what had happened to him. "It doesn't produce a field at all. What it does is affect certain types of objects close to it so that they become restrictd to a certain limited twodimensional plane in a single moment of time. The generator itself tries to exist both in this and in normal space at the same time, with the result that it blows up -- what you might call a paradox explosion -- not after some seconds, but immediately. Of course, this doesn't affect what's been caught up in the single moment-and-plane, because for them that single instant is eternity." "But it didn't blow up on you," said Paul. "I turned it off before it had a chance to," replied Jack, a little grimly. "Now wait," said Paul. "Wait. You just finished telling us you couldn't reach the timer switch because of your position which was essentially unchangeable in twodimensional space. How did you turn it off? In fact, how did you ever get back?" Jack smiled coolly. "What happens to a plane in curved space?" Paul frowned. "I don't get it," he said. "It curves, of course," answered Jack. "And where it's dependent upon something like the generator, it curves back eventually to it." Paul's eyes narrowed. "Well -- " he hesitated. "What good did knowing that do you, though? You could walk clear around the circle and still not change your position so as to reach the timer switch." "Ah yes," said Jack. "If it was just a simple circle. But it was a Moebius strip." "Now wait -- " cried Paul. "You wait," said Jack. "How many points determine a plane?" "Three." Jack turned and walked down the length of the room to where the two upright rods still stood connected to the generator. He touched their tips. "And how many points do we have here?" Paul looked bewildered. "Two," he said. "But -- " "Then where's the third point we need? As a matter of fact you're standing right at it." Paul started in spite of himself and moved slightly aside. "What do you mean?" he asked. "The third point," said Jack, "is the focal point of the two lines of force emanating from the two rod tips. They converge right in the middle of the window at the far end of the room there." "But I still don't see!" said Paul. "You will," said Jack. He turned and stepped into the alcove. There was a moment's silence, then the sound of tearing paper and he stepped back out holding a long thin strip of newspaper. He walked back to Paul. "Let's see your thumb and forefinger," he said. "Now look here. This one end of the strip for the length of about an inch we'll say is the part of the plane in this room that's determined by the three points, the two rod tips and the focal point of their lines of force. Hold that." He transferred one end of the strip to Paul's fingers. Paul held it pinched between thumb and forefinger and watched. "Now," went on Jack, demonstrating, "the plane goes out like this and around like this and back like this in a big loop and the end approaches the generator between your fingers again. It comes in here and the last inch of it goes back between your fingers, and there you are, reversed and ready to shut off your timer." "Wait," said Paul, now holding the two ends pinched between his fingers together and the big loop of paper strip drooping in midair. "Why does the end come back in the same place? Why doesn't it just circle around behind and touch ends?" "For two reasons," answered Jack. "The plane must end where it began. Right?" "Yes." "But," said Jack. "To remain the same plane it must have the same three points in common. And the plane takes its position from the focal point, not the two rod tips. The result is what you've got in your hand there, a loop with a little double tag end." "But I don't -- well, never mind," said Paul. "The important thing is that this is still a straight loop, with no twist in it at all. "You could never get reversed on this. This is no Moebius." "Think again," said Jack. "With that tag end it is." He turned to Eva. "Gome on, Eva. We'll leave Paul to figure this out while you and I go get our own affairs taken care of." He took her hand and opened the door. "Hey!" cried Paul. "You can't -- " "Oh yes, I can," said Jack, turning in the open doorway. "I've answered all your questions. Just take an imaginary little two-dimensional figure and run him around that strip of newspaper. You'll see." And he led Eva out the door, closing it behind them. Once in the corridor, however, he took her shoulders in his two big hands and backed her against the wall. "Tell me," he said. "Just why did you quit me at the U. and come down here?" Eva looked guilty. "He -- Paul said -- " "What did he say?" "He said," hesitated Eva, "you'd always told him you never intended to marry anyone." A small note of defiance came into her voice. "What was I going to do? Every day I'd come to work and you'd be there, and you never said anything -- " she broke off suddenly, eyeing him curiously. "Why did you ask me that now, Jack?" "Because," said Jack. "For a minute I was tempted to save Paul a walk -- a long, long walk." She stared up at him. "I don't understand." He smiled and took her hand. "Some day," he said tenderly, "some day when we are very old and married and well supplied with grandchildren, I'll tell you all about it. Okay?" She was too much in love with him to protest -- then. "Okay," she smiled back. They went down the corridor toward the door leading out to the parking lot behind the labs. ing at the strip of paper in his hand. It didn't seem possible, but it was. He had just finished walking, in imagination, a little two-dimensional man all the way around the strip; and, sure enough, he had ended up facing in the opposite direction. It was simple enough. But it wasn't a Moebius. Or was it? If the two ends were one end -- Outside on the parking lot he heard the roar of a motor; and he looked up to see a battered old blue business coupe make its turn on the gravel expanse and head out the driveway. As it passed it stopped; and Jack stuck his head out the car window to shout something to him. Paul stepped to the window. "What?" he yelled... Jack's words came indistinctly to him over the distance and the racket of the ancient motor. " -- I said -- stay right where you are -- " "What?" roared Paul.' But Jack had pulled in his head and the car pulled ahead out the driveway and into the street. Paul watched it merge with the traffic and get lost in the distance. What had Jack said? Stay right where you are? Why should he stay right where he was? Suddenly he felt the unexpected cold squeeze of suspicion. It couldn't be that Jack would --  -- Behind him and from the direction of the timer, came the sound of a soft, insidious click .    I'm not sure that the mathematician really understands this world of ours better than the poet and the mystic. Perhaps it's only that he's better at sums. -- Sir Arthur Eddington We ought to regard the present state of the universe as the effect of its antecedent state and as the cause of the state that is to follow. -- Laplace Illustrated by John Styga Get mad, old man, but don't give up; you're not through by a long shot. Somewhere there's a job for you, a job that youth can't do... a dangerous job, but a good one that'll bring you fame, fortune and peace... mato field a dusty-faced man opened the autodriver of a nuclearpowered truck and inserted a cannery's address card so the truck would know where to deliver its load. Six old men -- the tomato pickers -- waited for their pay in the truck's lengthening shadow. Most of them smoked or dozed, too tired for talk. Ollie Hollveg, tallest and oldest of the pickers, eyed the heavy-set rancher who sat at the tally table figuring the payroll. For this day's work Ollie expected even less pay than usual; the mumbling, pencillicking rancher--his name was Rost -- seemed to be overacting the role of harried proprietor. Soon Ollie saw his guess confirmed. A look of frustrated rage spread from face to face as each of the other pickers was in turn called to the table and paid. All were overage. None dared protest. At seventy a poor man without supposed to let himself be permanently retired to a Home for Seniles. If he wasn't senile and didn't want a home with barred windows and a barbed wire fence, he had to lie low and keep his mouth shut. Anyone could charge an overage person with incompetence. The charge was not a crime and so had no defence. All of which was old stuff to Ollie Hollveg. He'd been dodging the geriatricians for sixteen years. He considered himself used to the setup. Yet something about the rancher, Rost -- maybe his excessive weight, in contrast with the pickers' underfed gauntness, or maybe his cardboard cowboy boots and imitation sombrero -- made Ollie boil in spite of himself. He tried not to show his feelings. But when he was called to the tally table the rancher scowled up at him defensively and said, "Don't glare at me, Hollveg! If you moved as fast picking tomatoes as you do collecting your pay, you'd have earned more than this." He pushed out a little pile of coins that came to four dollars eighty-seven cents. "Odd pennies?" Ollie's voice broke as he fought to keep it under control. "Odd pennies, when picking's at the rate of two bits a lug? That can't be right. Just because we're old, you're stealing from us!" Rost's fat face turned livid. "Call me a thief?" he sputtered. "Get off my land!" Rost jumped clumsily to his feet, upsetting the tally table. Ollie bent to retrieve the coins scattered in the dust. "Don't try to steal from me!" Rost shouted. He pulled out a small gas gun and discharged it under Ollie's nose. Ollie pitched forward onto his face, twitched, moaned, and lay still. The deputy sheriff held an ampoule under his nose and brought him to after setting the squad car on the beamway, proceeding under remote control toward the county seat. The first thing Ollie thought of was his day's pay. He'd never received it. Worse -- his bedroll was left behind. And there was no stopping nor turning on the beam way. He complained bitterly. "You won't need that stuff," the sharp young deputy said. "Not where you're going." "I suppose Rost needs it!" Ollie protested. "He might at that. All he's got is those measily four rented acres of tomatoes. The cannery pays him the same as if he had four hundred acres and could pick by machine. "About all the profit he can make is what he chisels out of his pickers. You'll be better off in a Home, Pop, than trying to work cheaper than a machine." "Those Homes are prisons!" The deputy sighed. "I know how you feel. My old grandfather cried when we put him in. But we couldn't support him and he had no way of making a living. "The world changes faster than the people in it, Pop. Science all the time lets us live longer, but faster and faster it keeps changing the way we do things. An old guy falls so far behind the times, the only place for him is a Home." "But if a man wants to stay out," said Ollie, "I don't see why he # . JJ can t. "Old guys are dangerous to the rest of us. I saw three people killed, not long ago, trying to dodge an oldtimer who walked too slow to get across a wide street before the lights changed against him." "They could have slowed the signal," Ollie said. "But no! Always it's the man who has to adapt to the machine, not the machine to the man. The only way to get by in this world is to find some machine you just naturally fit." "You sound kind of bitter." "Why not? I used to be a stock control clerk, keeping track of spare parts supply for a nationally distributed line of machine tools. I had twenty girls working for me. Then one day they put in a big computer." He sighed. "No wonder these suicide salesmen do so well. If I had the money I'd hire somebody to knock me off right now." "Don't be stupid!" the deputy snarled. "You wouldn't be losing your freedom if you'd had sense enough to stay out of a fight. And when you talk about suicide salesmen, you sure prove you can't take care of yourself!" But the deputy was kinder than he sounded. Rather than allege incompetence, he charged Ollie with an assault against Rost. So instead of being remanded to the geriatricians, Ollie was kept overnight in jail and ordered held, next morning, for want of fifty dollars bail. An hour after bail had been set, a dapper thin faced bailbond broker came to see him. "Want out?" "Sure." "If I put up bail you'll be out." "No Home?" "You're classified as a criminal, ineligible for a Home till either you're found not guilty or serve your time." "Well, but I'm broke. I can't buy a bailbond." "You can work it off. I'm going to spring you right now. As soon as they let you out, meet me in the southwest corner of the park, just across from the post office." Ollie did. He thought his bail had been arranged by the deputy. The broker kept him waiting in the park for half an hour, but was brisk when he appeared. "My name is Lansing," he said. "Come on. We're taking a little trip." He steered Ollie to the copter tower at the park's center and with him boarded its endless-belt manlift. They were carried ten stories to the roof, and as they stepped off the manlift an empty copter hovered at hand. It bore on sides and bottom an address, a phone number, and the word Bailbonds , all in big letters. The copter rose under the tower's control as soon as they'd entered it, and continued to rise till Lansing selected a prepunched destination card and slipped it into the autopilot. Then a knowing red light winked on, the copter levelled off and headed southwest, and Lansing took one of a pair of chintz-padded wicker seats, motioning Ollie into the other. "How do you like the idea of going to a Home?" he asked abruptly. "I'd rather be dead." "I know someone who agrees with you. A fellow with bad health who wants to die but doesn't have the guts to do the necessary. Feel like helping him out?" Ollie sighed, smiled grimly, and shook his head. "No, thanks!" "You might die yourself, Hollveg." Lansing's voice was heavy with menace. "I might," Ollie agreed hotly. "I might get murdered. And maybe the same thing will happen to this supposedly sick man you want me to help out. He may not want to die any more than I do. I've heard you suicide salesmen do a lot of murder-for-hire." "You've heard too much, Hollveg." Lansing took a plushlined metal case from an inside pocket and removed from it a filled syringe, complete with needle. "This won't hurt," he said in a sneering imitation of a doctor. "But it'll end your independence like a barbed wire fence." Ollie began to sweat. "I've heard of those zombie-shots too," he said. He looked wildly around, then controlled himself and gestured almost calmly toward the sky, land, and water visible through the cabin's plastic walls. "Maybe you can put the needle away for a while," he suggested. "I'm not going to walk out on you right now." Lansing smiled and complied. "You may keep your health a long time yet," he said urbanely. "If you're sensible, we might even find steady work for you." Ollie suppressed a shudder. Lansing tuned in a Western on the physeo. Soon the odor of sage and horse-sweat filled the cabin. Ollie watched avidly. He hadn't seen enough physeo to be bored with it. There was a mouth watering camp supper scene, with pleasant odors of broiling beef and burning wood; and a stirring moonlit love scene with a wholesome girl who smelled of soap and starch, and only faintly of cosmetics. But then came the climactic chase, a combined stampede, stagecoach race, and Indian fight. So much alkali dust poured from the physeo that Ollie got a fit of coughing. He couldn't stop. After several excruciating minutes he lay down on the floor and gasped to Lansing for a drink of water. "There isn't any," Lansing told him sharply. "And brother, you'd better get up from there, because you'll have to move fast when we get to Frisco." Without knowing what would result, Ollie made sure he neither got up nor stopped coughing till they reached San Francisco which was fifteen minutes later. The pretense involved intense effort for so old a man. His voice went. He was clammy with sweat from head to foot. His face was pale and his hands cold. By the time the copter reached the roof of San Francisco's Union Square tower, Ollie was actually unable to jump out of the cabin in the thirty seconds allotted by the remote traffic-control system. Lansing tried to carry him out, but the result was merely a delay that damned the stream of traffic. A winged inspector buzzed them, took remote control of their copter, and led it to the emergency tower at Civic center. Ollie was taken off on a stretcher. Lansing, his urbanity washed away in a flood of redfaced rage, was still in the copter when it rose. And the hypo was still in his pocket; with Ollie due to get medical attention, he hadn't been able to use it. Ollie didn't dare stay long in the hospital. As soon as his stretcher was set down on the receiving ward floor, he rolled out of it and with the help of a fat steward struggled to his feet. "Thanks," he whispered hoarsely. "I have to go now." "You can't!" said the steward. "You haven't even been examined yet." "It's against my religion to have to do with medicine," Ollie improvised. "Besides, I'm perfectly well." "Yeah? What about your voice -- or lack of one?" "A coughing spell. I'm over it now. And my voice is coming back." It was. The steward unbuttoned his coat and scratched his belly meditatively. "If you don't want treatment you don't have to have it." he said finally. "The joint's overcrowded now." Ollie didn't congratulate himself when he got out. He was now a fugitive from both the geriatricians and the underworld. Soon the police would want him for bail-jumping, and meanwhile they'd grab him for vagrancy if they caught him off skidrow. He headed that way at once, walking over to Mission and down it toward Third. A clock on a storefront said five twenty. He felt overdue for supper and bed. He counted his change -- three dollars and forty-two cents. He had no bedroll ; no overcoat, either. Even in this nice summer weather it might be a little tough for a fellow to get by on the road with so little plunder. Eighty-six was a trifle old for the rugged life. What he needed, of course, was a white-collar job. Not only needed, but deserved -- he was a good clerk. Therefore he should go to the Hearst Building at Third and Market and scan the want ads posted there. As he'd been doing when in San Francisco for forty years. He thought of some of the many times he'd stared at that bulletin board. He'd gone there often during the years he'd worked as a construction timekeeper, before that skill became obsolete. Then there' d been an interval when he'd sold rebuilt window washers -- for a firm which still owed him money. And he'd haunted the board during the months he'd had that job in the automatic grocery, replenishing the dispensing machines' merchandise. None of his jobs had come from a want ad. But he had to go look. It was a ritual. ritual a hard one for him. He could read the fine-printed columns only with head cocked an arm's length away from a cheap reading glass held up to them. He took a lot of room ; forced a white-capped young mechanic to peer awkwardly around him. Embarrassed, Ollie moved out of the way. He'd begun to walk off when the young fellow stopped him. "I don't think you saw this one, Dad," he said, pointing. out dependents needed for dangerous scientific experiments. If able to pass intensive physical and mental tests report for interview to Civilian Personnel Office, Short Air Force Base, Short, Utah. "I don't know where the place is at all," Ollie complained wearily. "Just this side of Salt Lake, on the main line," the young man said. "I served there, so I'm curious. If you're not -- well -- " He shrugged and edged away. "Thanks, son," Ollie called after him. "I'm going to follow that up." The young man walked on without looking back. Ollie felt committed, not only by his offhand declaration, but by his ritual. He'd come to look for a job; he'd found one for which he was eligible; he must go after it. He headed down Third Street toward the freight yards but stopped at a skidrow restaurant for a bowl of stew and a cup of coffee. Passing an old-fashioned catchpenny grocery he went in and bought a halfdozen rolls to take with him. The proprietor, squat, unshaven, and swarthy, picked out a large red apple and slipped it in with the rolls. "Good for you," he said, smiling. Ollie shook his head. The grocer frowned, then replaced the apple with an orange. "Easier on teeth," he said. "Thank you," said Ollie, smiling. "You make me feel lucky. I'm answering a want ad -- maybe I'll get the job." The grocer smiled vaguely. "I hope." Then his face livened. "What job? In paper?" "Yes." There could be no other, for a man his age. "It says 'dangerous " said the grocer. "I think maybe they cut you up, find out how you live so long. Or make you sick to try new cure. "You find better job -- or Home. That one bad." There was a slight pause. "Look. I close soon. You sweep store, I give you dollar." "You're a good guy," said Ollie. "But I've got three dollars now." He showed them proudly. "You save yours for somebody who doesn't have a job to try for." He tucked the rolls and orange inside his shirt, marched valiantly out of the dark little store, and continued on to the yards. The heavy traffic there confused him briefly. Transcontinental freight was carried in long trains of rubber-tired cars towed on elevated beamways by remotely-controlled, nuclear-fuqled steam tractors. Here at the San Francisco yards the trains were broken up and the individual cars hauled by turbotractor on city streets and suburban roads for delivery at the addressees' doors. The cars were huge, the noise and bustle awe-inspiring. Ollie stood outside the main exit watching the little tractors and big cars emerge, till a beamway bull came over, flashed a badge, and told him to move on. He did. He was a fugitive from so many things; he couldn't afford resentments. He went on around the yards. They were vast. He felt sure that somewhere there must be an unguarded entry, and set out to find it, moving cautiously from shadow to shadow along the high plastiboard fence. Twice he blundered into watchmen. Once he nearly got himself run over. But after a couple of hours he saw a bindlestiff slip through an unguarded gate, and in half a minute he was right behind the man. Ollie moved away from him. There was safety in solitude. Besides, he had to find a Salt Lake train. The sealed cars were addressed like so many packages. But he had to have light to read by, and he risked discovery every time he moved into the light and took his stance behind the reading glass. There were other hazards; television beams for the yard clerks to read numbers by, invisible beams for the bulls to catch him with, headlights that suddenly flashed on blindingly, humped cars rolling unattended on silent, murderous tires. Ollie felt like an ant on a busy sidewalk, liable to be crushed under foot at any moment. But an added hazard helped him find his train. The bulls had read that want ad too. They were out in force around a string of cars. He slipped between two sleepylooking men, checked an address, and then slipped out again, certain every car would be inspected before departure. A good way down the yard he hid at the base of the fence, dozing and shivering for several hours as he lay stretched out on the dewchilled concrete. He checked each outbound train as it went by, and again knew his by the bulls on it. They were on the cowcatcher and in the cab, on the car roofs, and in the caboose with the traincrew of three trouble-shooting mechanics. Highlights gleamed on their weapons. Their job was to keep or get all transients off that train -- and they would if they could. Ollie let most of the train go past. The caboose came by at about fifteen miles an hour with a sharpeyed guard head-and-shoulders out of the cupola. Ollie let him get past, too -- and hoped he went on looking toward the front. He began to hobble parallel to the train, dismayed at the stiffness that had set in while he lay out on the damp concrete. As the rear of the caboose drew even with him he emerged from the shadows and dived for the coupling at the car's rear. He caught it clumsily, tore the nail off his left ring finger, but hung on. He tried to trot but the train dragged him. He gave a leapfrog player's jump and landed on top of his own hands, his thighs around the coupling, his nose against the rear platform-wall of the caboose. The engine jerked slack out of the long train and nearly dislodged him. One at a time he moved his hands from the coupling to the base of the wall. He edged in a little closer. The train gathered speed. He wasn't really on but he couldn't safely get off. He'd intended climbing under the caboose to its rear truck, but the bulls and his own lack of agility made this impossible so now he must ride where he was, exposed to battering wind and searching cold as the train crossed the High Sierras, and also exposed to the whims of the trainmen if any should come out on the platform and look down. He'd seen men shot off trains. But he didn't worry about it. Instead, like the old hand he was, he tried to sleep while clinging there. At Sparks the train stopped for a maintenance check. The guards formed a perimeter but Ollie was inside it. Too stiff to move far, he stayed in a shadow while the mechanics inspected, then he climbed under the caboose and stretched out on a girder separating two tires of the rearmost, six-tired truck. The tremendous tires fanned up hot winds when rolling, and these had warmed the steel he lay on. Before the train started he ate a roll, sucked the orange, and stretched out face down for the speed run across the central Nevada flatlands. The guards stayed behind. After the train had started, one of them shined a light directly in Ollie's eyes. The train kept on. And he was too close to the tires to be shot at; rubber-coated death whirled within three inches at either side of him. As the train picked up speed he was careful to lie still, but beyond making sure he didn't touch the tires Ollie tried to put all thought of risk from his mind. He saw a sudden vivid picture of his dead wife and son as they'd looked before the . undertaker fixed them. They'd been killed while travelling. In times when to succeed was to get somewhere, they'd been killed en route. He couldn't remember where to. They'd died in a head-on crash caused by a stranger's error in judgment. A thing that didn't happen any more, now that highway vehicles were controlled by beamed energy instead of individual drivers. The highway was one place where the human had been tested against the machine and found inferior. The office was another. If Minna and Charlie hadn't died so long ago, they might have lived to see him now -- a bindlestiff so low he even lacked a bindle. Still, it was lonely with no one in the whole wide world to care whether he lived or died. He sighed, shifted his position, and was nearly jerked under the wheels by sudden contact with the tire on his right. It was over in an instant. The tire simply ripped the coat from his back. He still wore the sleeves. The rest was gone. Weathered thread had saved him. about the irony of that before rosy dawnlight was reflected into his face from a glittering salt-pan. He knew then he was still west of Salt Lake City, and that Short Air Force Base was close. Also close, now that night had withdrawn its concealment, was discovery. He was sure to be found when next the train stopped. Therefore he eased himself out of his coatsleeves. He moved gingerly, but still chanced death to improve his appearance. The train slowed, stopped. Someone called, "Here he is," and a redhaired Air Policeman leaned under the caboose, looked him over, and said, "Come on out, Pop." Ollie's legs were stiff. The airman had to help. "You're in kind of rough shape," he said. "Where did you think you were going?" "Why -- uh -- east." Ollie cast down his eyes, ashamed even to admit he'd once entertained the notion he might get a job. The airman wasn't fooled. "You slipped through the train guards after the job we've got here. Didn't you, Pop?" "All I want is out," said Ollie stubbornly. "Well," said the airman, "you can't get off the Base without a pass. You'll have to go up to Civilian Personnel and get one." "Can't I wash first?" He could. He could also get a jeep ride to the terra cotta headquarters building, with a stop along the way for a canteen-cup of coffee and a slice of bread. When they got to headquarters the airman asked, "Tell the truth, now; didn't you really come after this job?" Ollie wouldn't admit he'd lied about it, so he lied again. "I've seen some of the other guys come in after it," the airman insisted, "and you look as good as any of them. Why not try for it, now you're here?" He gave Ollie a long application to fill out and left him at a desk just outside the personnel office. From somewhere came the clatter of a facsimile-printer, carrying boy whistled above the squawk of a superwave radio. But otherwise the place seemed deserted at that early-morning hour. For lack of anything better to do, Ollie filled out the application, leaving the job title blank. The only thing that gave him pause, aside from the difficulty of seeing, was his arrest record, and in time he decided to put it down just as it was, including the pending assault charge with its implication of jumped bail. After an hour a young captain entered the building and went to the office marked Adjutant. A fat major gave Ollie a piercing glance and then entered the Civilian Personnel office. At about five minutes of eight the place suddenly boiled with military and civilian people of all ages and both sexes. Things quieted promptly at eight. A blond youth came out of the office, glanced at Ollie's application form, kept it, and invited him inside. "First thing for you," he said, "will be a physical exam." He took Ollie to another room and turned him over to a young medic who put him in a box like a steam cabinet, attached electrodes to his temples, wrists, ankles, and chest, and put a helmet on his head. For five minutes Ollie stood encased, his stomach fluttering as he recalled the grocer's warning. He waited for the vivisection to begin. It didn't. He was removed from his shell and handed an inked graph. "Here's your profile," the medic said. "It's good, considering. Take it back to the fellow who brought you here." He did and was ushered into a glassed-in office containing two desks, each labelled Civilian Personnel Officer. At one sat the fat major. At the other, a tallish young civilian held Ollie's application. "My name is Katt," the civilian said, getting up to shake hands. "This is Major Brownwight." The major also shook his hand. Katt placed a straightbacked chair between the two desks, and invited Ollie to sit in it. Ollie did, gazing uncertainly from one man to the other. "We heard you arrived by train early this morning," Katt said. "Yes, sir." "You were first reported in Sparks, but I'll bet you boarded that train in San Francisco." "Yes, sir. What's the penalty?" "None. I like it. It's enterprising, athletic, and even brave for a man of your years to do that for a job. Shows resourcefulness. Also skill, because men are trying to nip rides here from all over the United States, but very few arrive." "They're too old," said Major Brownwight. He turned to Katt and added, "I still don't think it's an old man's job!" "Well sir," said Katt, stifling a sigh, "your predecessor understood and approved of it. These oldtimers have a lower metabolic rate than younger people, with all that that implies. They don't mind the enforced inactivity, they won't use up so much oxygen nor need so much food, they won't spend so many hours in sleep. All qualities we need." "Maybe so." The major turned to Ollie and said, "I just transferred in here. You know more about this than I do." "I don't even know what you're talking about," Ollie told him. "Without divulging classified information," said Katt, "for which you are not yet cleared, I can tell you these are little one-man jobs. Small stuff -- for pioneering. That's why we want you men with lots of patience, who're used to being alone. People without a fixed place in society, and not too much to leave behind. A husky old itinerant like you is just what we want." "For what?" Ollie insisted. "To travel -- as a sort of working passenger, since piloting will of course be mechanical -- in the first manned spaceships to leave Earth for the stars." "Spaceships?" "Sure. Solo spaceships. Superfast, which means the trip will seem relatively short while you're on it, and will give you extra earth-years of life in the end. "The job is much easier and less hazardous than the trainride that brought you here. You're a natural for it. You really fit it." "Do I, now?" A quick glow of inner warmth melted many bad years away. Ollie grinned. "You know," he said, "hi a way that's a disappointment." "How so?" asked the major aggressively. "Don't you want the job?" "Yes, sir. I want it. But all these years I've been telling myself that somewhere on this earth was a place I'd fit into, if only I could find it. Now you tell me I fit in, but the place isn't here on Earth after all!" "Not right now, no," said Katt. "But you'll be back. Rich and famous, too. No Home for you, Mr. Hollveg -- you'll have a nice place of your own." And he did -- after photographing the planets of Arcturus. #   for orders; he had no idea where he might be sent after that. Cudyk had not yet made up his mind. He thought that perhaps he would go with the priest ; if he should change his mind after landing it would be no great loss; one wilderness, as Exarkos had once said, was as good as another. It will all be anticlimax, he thought, and perhaps that is the definition of Hell: unending anticlimax. He wondered how it would feel to be Earthbound again. The repatriation ship was to be the last Galactic vessel which would ever call at Earth. And there would be a constant guard. The Niori had learned, belatedly but well. If humanity ever climbed high enough again to reach the stars with its bloody fingers, the citizens of the galaxy would be ready. Cudyk looked at his watch. The man in the powerhouse must be a sentimentalist ; he was waiting until the last possible moment. He heard the soft hum of the aircar behind him, turned and saw it settling lightly to the clipped lawn. The remaining passengers were moving toward it. Exarkos stood up and lifted his suitcase. Cudyk turned back for one last look at the Quarter. It was full dark now, and all he could see of it was the blocky, ambiguous outline of its darkness against the glowing buildings beyond, and the cross-hatched pattern of yellow street lights. The lights went out.  #  Some folks say a good wife is a composite of many things . And sometimes a girl finds it tough . But with the ratio of the sexes drastically changed... June had an argument over the coffee. Polly had brewed it. June thought it was too strong. Doris and Sue stayed out of the argument at first. Polly defended, "Sure, it's a little stronger, but men like it strong. You might as well get used to it." June said, "See here, he's got to make some concessions. After all, why should four of us suffer -- " "Suffer? You call being married to Hollis Jamison suffering?" "Don't be so impressed. He's not doing badly marrying us, either. He could do a lot worse." "Why, you vain witch! Just because you play a fair game of chess -- " "Oh, I'm not taking all the credit. You're a fine cook, Doris is witty and Sue's body would make any man's mouth water -- but that's just the point! Look what he's getting! Why should we have to change all our habits and tastes to conform with his?" Now Doris entered the argument. "You know darn well why! It's still a man's world and a man's choice. Back when there was a man for practically every woman, it was different. But it's five women to one man right now -- don't ever forget that -- five to one, and so far the law only requires a quadracell. Just be grateful you aren't the one who's left out. You and your chessplaying! How far would you get attracting a man, all by yourself?" "Shhh, now, all of you," Sue broke into the telepathic conversation. "Let's clear the dishes and get the apartment straightened up. Hollis did make one concession -- moving in with us, instead of making us live in that dismal bachelor's hole of his. Let's not make him regret it." They heeded Sue and got busy. Sue was the arbiter. She ruled the quartet with a gentle but confident mind. All four knew that her lithe, athletic body with it's soft curves and golden hair was the greatest asset in this transaction of matrimony. There had been no dissension on this point, nor could there have been. The bureau would never have allowed them to be together and form a marriage cell had there been the slightest dispute. Many differences of opinion were allowable, but the four had been carefully screened in certain matters of basic tastes. They liked the same colors, foods, styles of clothing, video programs, sports and vacation activities. All were carefully schooled ambiverts of roughly equal education. Instead of conflicting, their differences of skills, talents and personality traits complemented each other. Even with all this care in selecting and matching, however, the big test was the culmination of the marriage, itself -- the whole purpose of this banding together. The unpredictable quality of the most stable feminine emotions made the choice of a mate most difficult of afi. This awareness was in all their minds this day, and it made them a little nervous. Even the argument that had started over the coffee had been faintly alarming to Sue. They were a team, welded together by the wonderful gift of telepathy, which was only possible through formation of a marriage cell. The most complete intimacy of thought and feeling had been nurtured for a whole year before marriage was permissible. Sympathy, tolerance and sharing a common experience with mutual enjoyment and happiness was the keystone of the polygamous unions. Nothing must spoil it now. The delivery vault thumped, and the signal light flicked on. Sue rushed to slide up the door. "Orchids!" they chorused mentally, and Sue noticed with satisfaction that June's thought was as strong as the others. The lovely flowers were put in the cooler, the apartment was tidied and they turned to the exciting task of becoming beautiful for their handsome husband. The tiff over the coffee was forgotten as they became immersed in sprays, powders, tints, cosmetics, body ornaments and the precious nuptial perfume. This latter, issued to them only yesterday when they signed the register and received the license, was now as traditionally exclusive to weddings as trousseaus had been centuries ago. Feminine clothing, of course, had long since been eliminated from the occasion, along with other redundancies such as waggish and mischievous guests, old shoes, rice and hectic honeymoon trips. The official and religious arrangements had been completed yesterday at the registry and the chapel, the union to become legal and effective at noon on this day. When Hollis Jamison walked through their door at twelve o'clock he would bring four gold rings, and the moment the rings were placed on the proper fingers the ceremony was complete. Doris said, "Let's steal just a tiny whiff of the perfume. I'm too curious to wait." June and Polly were game, but Sue cut them off. "Not on your life! I used to know a chemist at the hormone labs where they compound this stuff, and he told me about it. We have things to do, and if what he told me is true -- well, it's very distracting." Polly backed her up, "I hear it is terribly volatile. I guess we wouldn't want it to wear off before Hollis came." "Hollis!" The thought was June's, and it came thin and quavery. "What -- do you suppose it's like to be married?" No one answered, for there was no experience among them. Each had her own romantic idea, so cherished, so private that even within the intimacy of their clique it was too sacred to discuss. Suddenly June said, "I'm scared." The thought had come sharply and unexpectedly. It was contagious. Polly said, "Me, too." "Of what?" Doris asked, "Of drinking strong coffee the rest of your lives?" It was a weak, nervous stab at humor, and Sue knew that Doris was as jumpy as the rest of them. "Steady, gals," she said sympathetically. "It'll be worth it. We want a baby, don't we?" It was the right thought at the right time. Sue felt their minds relax, and the thought even did her some good. A sweet, little, round, pink baby -- She let the mental picture flow out to the others, and the little crisis passed. The minutes flew, and soon it was five minutes to twelve. "Have we forgotten anything?" Sue asked. "The perfume!" Polly and June said together. "Hurry!" Doris said. "I think he's coming." The seal on the tiny vial was broken, one drop on each breast, and the rich, exotic fumes exuded a gentle, warm excitement that was entirely different from the innocent scents they had known. The door was unlocked, and now it opened. Hollis stepped in, bronzed body bared to the waist. "The flowers!" Polly wailed inwardly. "We forgot the orchids -- But Hollis Jamison didn't notice the discrepancy. He advanced smiling from his gray eyes and strong mouth. Sue opened her lips and her fine, white teeth showed a welcoming smile. She was proud of her lovely body, and June, Polly and Doris shared in that pride. Sue held out her left hand with fingers outstretched. Her man came forward jingling the four rings in his right hand. He paused before her, drew her left hand to his lips, kissed the little finger and slid the proper ring on it, then, in order he kissed Sue's other three fingers and banded them with the remaining rings, symbolic of the four separate feminine entities who dwelt in this one magnificent body. And with each ring he said a name: "June, Polly, Doris, Sue -- " He straightened and gazed into the two blue eyes. "I thee wed," he said simply.    Science may some day reduce the function of memory to a mathematical formula involving electrical impulse frequencies and durations at certain sites in the brain. Experiments with rats have shown that the frequency of electrical impulses on the brain's memory unit determine whether the memory is good or bad. Rats whose brains were stimulated at high frequencies were able to master a maze much more rapidly than those which had been stimulated at one-fourth the frequency rates. Vertical conveyor belts may replace the elevator cage in the future. Such a system was recently installed in a New York City garage. The continuous # foot belt has steps placed sixteen feet apart. When stopped, two steps are on each of the four levels of the building; four ready to go up and the other four ready to go down. The rider standing on a step, grasps a safety handle and starts the "Man-Lift" by pulling a rope beside the belt. The rope starts a three horsepower electric motor that turns a pulley at each end of the rubber and cotton belt. The first man on the moon may find that he's surrounded by some pretty valuable crystals when he steps out of the spaceship. Recent studies have indicated that the specific gravity of the lunar crust is about equal to that of a diamond. Crystallized carbon could be formed by a fusion of the lunar surface caused by internal forces, such as modified volcanic action or meteorite bombardment. Indications point to the theory that the craters of the moon were formed by such actions; and strengthen the possibility of valuable crystalline formations dotting the lunar landscape. your teeth without causing any pain or even audible sound. A new drill has been introduced in tests which uses a machine tool designed for cutting metals and hard minerals. The device is vibrated electromagnetically for a distance of less than a thousandths of an inch at a speed of # times a second. The vibration activates the particles in a cutting liquid which do the actual work of wearing away the tooth material. The traffic problem created by freight delivery may be solved in the future by a new push-button device that enables a pilot to drop as much as twenty tons of cargo by pressing a button in his cockpit. A fully loaded cargo platform is dragged out of the rear of the plane by an extraction parachute, and when the platform clears the plane a large parachute opens and lands the cargo safely. Special shock absorbers help to protect the cargo from impact on landing. By next summer you may be able to spray your patio, picnic ground or campsite once -- and have it rid of flies, mosquitoes and other insects for the entire season. U.S. Department of Agriculture scientists hope that chemical "extenders" added to present insecticides will do the job. Experiments have proved that the use of such extenders as a effectiveness from # to # days. Transport planes may some day have detachable cabins that can parachute to earth if the plane runs into trouble. A Danish engineer has patented the model which will protect passengers in case of catastrophe. The cabin has a huge parachute packed on top of it, with small "pilot" chutes attached to the big one. The whole works is encased in the plane's skin. In an emergency the pilot could close the water tight door, and pull an emergency lever which would rip the skin covering the cabin away. One small parachute would pull and slide the cabin away from the plane, and then the big chute would take over and land the cabin intact on land or water. Patients of the future may be put into artificial hibernation to protect them from traumatic shock and pain. The drug induced sleep was tried with some success in the underground hospital of the French in Indo China. The drop in body temperature, pulse rate and blood pressure relieve pain and relax the patient until he is able to stand the shock of drastip surgery. Edible corncobs may be among the cattle feeds of the future. Improved corn is already making a trend in this direction. Plant geneticists are constantly working to increase the pentosan chemical yield. Breaking the atom structure of pentosan into pentosan sugar is the next step on the agenda. When this is accomplished the cob will become a valuable food source. Window air conditioners or household cooling systems may someday contain a trace of a rare element to freshen indoor air with invisible health-stimulating particles of electricity. Experiments have shown that use of radioactive polonium # to generate alpha particles in air conditioning systems creates air that is equally as benificent as fresh air without forming ions that are irritating to health if inhaled for any long periods of time. Summer vacation clothes may soon include disposable bathing suits. A specially processed wall paper has been found to have high "wet strength" and several feminine bathing suits have been made of it and are undergoing strenuous tests this year. # -- # miles. # -- # miles per hour. # -- Radioactive. # -- Jupiter. # -- # years. # -- Radex. # -- # times greater. #I -- Hydrogen. # -- Lucifer and Hesperus. There # a Time when Your Luck Will Change! " And there shall he signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the nations, with perplexity; the sea and the waves roaring ; Mens hearts failing them for fear, and for looking after those things which are coming on the earth..." -- St. Luke #:#, #. When the Bible was written prophecy was an outstanding feature of this greatest of all books. Today many scoff at predictions, yet -- the Biblical prophecy written # years ago that the Jews would reestablish a new nation of Israel, has just come true! Today we know that there are "cycles' when wars and world problems reach fanatical heights -- then changes come. Marguerite Carter has given her life to study, keeping records that may be used to help mankind. Of one thing you may be sure, she is honest and to be trusted! This amazing woman predicted, long before, the coming order of nations in World War II. In # when Russia was struggling for survival, she said: "We shall find it necessary to sit down equally at the peace table with Russia and concede to her wishes. Only very shrewd maneuvering will prevent her being the completely dominant power in Europe." This has come true! Now -- she says -- "This is the time of many small wars, quarrels in families and sudden home changes. Through it all, the United States will advance to unbelievable power and sound financial strength. For many, many people there will be completely new fields of work!" Test Miss Carter's accuracy for the greatest help you personally have ever known. Get "your" forecast for the next twelve months. Send your complete birthday -- month, date, and year, the hour of your birth (if known), and the place -- with a remittance of # for your forecast which will include Miss Carter's special notations showing "Outstanding Indications." Allow three weeks for proper, careful attention. Address: Marguerite Carter, #I Jackson Bldg., Indianapolis #, Indiana. -- Continued from Back Cover about the first A-Bomb... written before it was invented! Plus many other best tales from twelve years of AstoundingScience-Fiction Magazine. !J omnibus of science-fiction -- # top stories by outstanding authors... of visitors from Outer Space... of Far Traveling... Adventures in Dimension... Worlds of Tomorrow. ries from Fantasy and ScienceFiction Magazine. Atomic power from beans... the man who lived # years ; and many others. Clement -- Chas. Lackland lin. But force of gravity is so powerful that a fall of a few inches can powder a human! Sohl -- # A.D. Scientists can restore dead men to life! But when Bradley Kempton is restored -- he finds himself in the body of an insane killer! Edgar Pangborn -- Angelo Pontevecchio can destroy the earth -- or he can save it. But it's not up to him to decide! The Asimov -- Robots are the most hated creatures on earth. Then a noted robot scientist is murdered. Detective Baley has to track down the killer. And -- he's given a robot as a partner! -- From his hide-out, Paul Breen could read the minds of enemy agents anywhere ! Then he learned that HE was about to be killed. Think of it! Your Choice of Science-Fiction Books for Ohfy Woo  jet-propelled Science-Fiction #! We make this amazing offer to introduce you to the new Science' Fiction Book Club. It brings you the cream of new science-fiction bestsellers for only I each (plus a few cents postage) -- even though they cost #, #, and up in original publishers' editions. Each month's selection is described in advance. You take only those books you really want -- as few as four a year, if you wish. science-fiction hits described here. All three are yours for only #. Two are your gift books for joining; the other is your first selection. This offer may be withdrawn at any time. So Garden City, N. Y. jOO ? Dept. ff-L Garden City, New York Please rush me the # books checked below, as my gift books and first selection. Bill me only I for all three (plus small shipping charge), and enroll me as a member of the Science-Fiction Book C lub. Every month send me the Club's free bulletin, "Things to Come," so that I may decide whether or not I wish tq receive the coming monthly selection described therein. For each book I accept, I will pay only I plus shipping. I do not have to take a book every month (only four during time I am a member) -- and I may resign at any time after accepting four selections. all books in # days, pay nothing and this membership will be cancelled.  The Altered Ego  Astounding Anthology  Best From Fantasy  Science-Fiction  Caves of Steel  Mirror for Observers  Mission of Gravity  Omnibus  Wild Talent Name... Address . ( Please Print) City Zone State Selection price in Canada # plus shipping Address ScienceFiction Club, # Bond St., Toronto # (Offer good only in U. S. and Canada) Which of These Top Science-Fiction Authors Do You Enjoy Most? popular science-fiction writers of today. Each is a master at creating rocket-fast adventures... crammed with the science thrills of the future... packed with the daring imagination that will make tomorrow's headlines. Read inside how you can get bestsellers -- by top science-fiction writers like these -- for only  I . # ! OBSERVATORY ROCKET -- This observatory rocket is making a close-up stud of the Great Nebula in Andromeda, M# I . Like most galaxies, the Grea Nebula in Andromeda M# I is a vast spiral, a veritable pinwheel in space. On( of the nearer such astronomical spectacles, it can be seen on a clear nigh with the naked eye. By way of identification, it is that elongated patch of ligh lying between Cassiopeia and the Great Square of Pegasus. Our own Milk Way is believed to be a spiral similar to M# I . you're chat man, here's something chat will interest you. Not a magic formula -- nor a get-rich 'quick scheme -- but something more substantial, more practical. Of course, you need something more than just the desire to an accountant. You've got to pay Still, wouldn't it be worth your while to sacrifice some of your leisure in favor of interesting home study -- over a comparatively brief period. Always provided that the rewards were good -- a salary of # to #? An accountant's duties are interesting, varied tnd of real worth to his employers. He hdiS ftanJinfi! Do you feel that such things aren't for you? Well, don't be too sure. Very possibly they can be! Why not, like so many before you. investigate LaSalle's modern Problem Method of training for an accountancy, position? Just suppose you were permitted to work in a large accounting house under the personal supervision of an expert accountant. Suppose, with his aid, you studied accounting principles and solved problems day by day -- easy ones at first -- then more difficult ones. If you could do this -- and could turn to him for advice as the problems became complex -- soon you'd master them all. That's the training you follow in principle under the LaSalle Problem Method. You cover accountancy from the basic Principles right up through Accountancy Systems and Income Tax Procedure. Then you add C. P. A. Training and psepare for the C P. A. examinations. As you go along, you absorb the principles of Auditing, Cost Accounting, Business Law, Statistical Control, Organization, Management and Finance. Your progress is as speedy as you care to make it -- depending on your own eagerness to learn and the time you spend in study. Will recognition come? The only answer, as you know, is that success come to the man who is really trained. It's possible your employers will notice your improvement in a very few weeks or months. Indeed, many LaSalle graduates have paid for their training -- with increased earnings -- before they have completed it! For accountants, who are trained in organization and management, are the executives of the future. Send For Free Sample Lesson For your own good, get all the faas. Write for our free #-page book, "Accountancy, The Profession That Pays" -- also the free sample lesson so you can prove to yourself that you can master accountancy quickly, thoroly in spare time at home. Over #r# CertHled Public Acceuntontf among LaScdIo alumni A Correspondence Institution Send me without obligation. Free Sample Lesson and "Accountancy, The Profession 'That Pays." Sami An AJdrm Cri, #o# S' SMrr. All Stories New and Complete Cover by Bob Watkins Illustrating the story, 'Seller of the Sky" The Great Nebula in Andromeda, M# I IF is published monthly by Quinn Publishing Company, Inc. Volume #, No. #. Copyright # by Quinn Publishing Co., Inc. Office of publication, # Lord Street, Bunalo, New York. Entered as Second Qass Matter at Post Office, Buffalo, New York. Subscription S# for # issues in U.S. and Possessions; Canada # for # issues; elsewhere #. Allow four weeks for change of address. All stories apparing in this magazine are fiction; any similarity to actual persons is coinciaental. Not responsible for unsolicited artwork or manuscripts, #c a copy. Printed in U.S.A. lext issue on sale January #tb lhelJUtuiuRxdi.qfjCifi be generally told -- you ought to know. Great truths are dangerous to some -- but factors for personal power and accomplishment in the hands of those who understand em. Behind the tales of the miracles and mysteries of the ancients, lie centuries of their secret probing into nature's laws -- their amazing discoveries of the hid den processes of mans mind, and the mastery of lifers problems. Once shrouded in mystery to avoid their destruction by mass fear and ignorance, these facts remain a useful heritage for the thousands of men and women who privately use them in their homes today. The Rosicrucians (not a religious organization) an age-old brotherhood of learning, have preserved this secret wisdom in their archives for centuries. They now invite you to share the practical helpfulness of their teaching. Write today for a free copy of the book, "The Mastery of Life." Within its pages may lie a new life of opportunity for you. Address: Scribe K.G.S. I Scribe K.G.S. i I Saa Jose. California i I Please send me theree book. The Mastery  I of Life, which explains how I may learn to i I use my faculties and powers of mind. i I Name ' I Address  I City I I I has never read a science fiction magazine asked me that old dogeared question: "Just what is science fiction?" Well, Tve been hearing it ever since volume one, number one, and better men than I am have either been reluctant to answer it or have replied in some vague general way. I can't do it "in ten words or less", either. But I do like to think of it as perhaps the only form of fiction I know of which doesn't have to follow the rules laid down for writing other types of fiction. I think science fiction should be a medium of entertainment which advances, worthwhile ideas and thoughts on the philosophy, inventions, conventions and shenanigans of Mankind. I believe that a science fiction theme or premise should be simple and clearly plotted and convincingly told in a straightforward manner. And I often wonder why so many authors (some of them pretty experienced fellows, too) have to throw everything but the kitchen sink into the pot and make a soup you have a heck of a time identiifying. I have just finished reading a rather lengthy yarn with several rather far-fetched theories in one field, two or three political premises stirred up with them, and then a bunch of characters, none clearly definable, trying to juggle the whole mess. Now, I'm not saying the juggling couldn't be done artistically and entertainingly. My argument is purely that if you are going to handle all that stuff you gotta have elbow room in which to do it. Namely -- in novel room, and then you have to be careful. But in a short story or novelette, stick to one good idea and work it out clearly and emphatically. If it is a new extrapolation of cybernetics, let it be that; not also an introduction to new political theories. Oriental religious tenets or goldfish mutations. It makes a story easier to write and the chances are that a story that's easy to write is also easy to read. Another thing about science fiction that should be cleared up is that so many non-readers never become readers because they think it heavy "science stuff' and therefore difficult to read. Or they aren't interested in juvenile "space opera" and never bother to find out that good science fiction is not that at all. And while we're on the subject, let's see how a recent issue of "The Literary Supplement" of The Times of London regards science fiction. The issue I received (gratis) is fat, fat, fat, consisting mostly of a huge section devoted to "American Writing Today" and all the paid advertisements of American book publishers. This particular section is a rather exhausting survey and critique of American literature in all its forms and phases. Somewhere in the back part of the issue is an essay on science fiction entitled "Escaping into Space". I found it interesting, for several reasons, and I wish you folks who love science fiction could read it (also for several reasons) . It is precisely written; much of it is good, much of it is rather stuffy, a great part of it erroneous or uninformed. It is unsigned. However, to quote a few snatches: "The world of science fiction is essentially that of the adventure story, and the adventure story pure and simple has never held a very notable place in the history of literature." I could certainly argue this point, citing many wonderful American adventure classics that, to my warped way of thinking, have become a notable part of American literature. I could also argue the point about science fiction being "essentially" an adventure story. But you can, too. So I won't do it here. But let's continue: "Science fiction is one of the natural phenomena of a country so preoccupied with the material aspects of life, so predominantly 'g#idget-minded" (it is remarkable how many science fiction stories revolve around mysterious, incomprehensible gadgets and the problems they pose) ; yet it does to some extent echo the gradual development and change of direction of the American national conscience during the past thirty years. In the early days, these stories were pure adventure-tales: pioneers shot off into space, landed on distant worlds and found enough thrills and horrific aborigines there to titillate the most jaded reader's palate. They were very much an extension of the hero-cult common to all books written for juvenile readers the world over. But this era is now somewhat contemptuously dismissed as the bug-eyed monster phase and science fiction has made efforts to grow up. Those early writers who have not drifted off into other fields have set about improving the standard of their original, rather crude tales and some are even striving to give their work a deeper significance". I agree that America is "gadgetminded", but that isn't the reason for science fiction. If only one half of the gadget-minded people in this country read science fiction, a dozen different science fiction magazines wouldn't have folded in the past year. Publishing a science fiction magazine, contrary to what this British writer thinks, is no gravy train. The audience is small, and not as he (or she?) states: "Broadly speaking, science fiction can be placed in the same class as the ever-popular Western and appeals to the same type of public". I like westerns too, but -- oh boy! -- what a difference in the audience! "If science fiction does much to illustrate the development of a national neurosis, it also expresses man's pioneering spirit, his cease( Continued on page #) The Lut and the Snorap were philosophical engineers of high and ancient orders; and they were very wise in the ways of all types of life. However, they were now experiencing something new -- the struggle for existence of two human beings... The Odd Ones Illustrated by Ed Emsh with a thump, "This I do not understand." "They are young," replied the Lut, settling on his haunches beside the Snorap. "Young and stupid." "I agree they are young," said the Snorap. "I am not yet convinced they are stupid. But how can they expect to persist?" Persist, of course, was not exactly the word the Snorap used. It was something with more scope than the mere idea of persisting. It dealt with continuing to survive, and a social and racial sense as well as maintaining a present effort. However, the Lut understood. They were of different races these two; but equally old and experienced in the ways of the universe. Both had evolved to cope with the varying conditions to be found in space and on many different worlds, and though the end product of each race's evolution had resulted in some difference, in essence they were similar. Neither of them, for example, required an atmosphere; and they could fuel their bodies with almost any chemical compound which would give off energy in the process of being broken down into its component parts. At a pinch, they could even get by on solar radiation, though this was an unsatisfying form of diet. Fleshed and muscled to meet truly fantastic gravities, pressures, and temperature extremes, they were at home just about anywhere. These were the common points. In appearance each race had settled on a form of its own. The Snorap strongly resembled a very fat and sleepy lizard about ten feet in length -- a sort of unterrifying, overs tufifed dragon of the kind who would prefer a pleasant nap in a soft chair to eating maidens, any day in the week. His hide was heavy and dark and ridged like armor-plating. The Lut, on the other hand, was built more on the model of an Earthly tiger, except that he was longer -- being fully as long as the Snorap -- and thicker, with an almost perfectly round body, rather like a big sewer main. He was tailless, his head was big and flat of face, and he possessed an enormous jaw which could crunch boulders like hard candy. His eyes had a fierce green glint to them and he was covered with very fine, but incredibly tough, small glassy scales which would have permitted him to take an acid shower every morning and never notice it at all. But in spite of his appearance, he was just as civilized, just as intelligent, and just as much a gentleman as the Snorap; which put them both, as a matter of fact, several notches above the two humans they were watching, in all those respects. The two aliens were philosophical engineers, an occupation it is hard to explain in human terms. It might be attempted by saying that every living being, no matter how far down the intelligence scale it may be, has a sort of inherent philosophy of survival. When the philosophies of all life forms on one world balance nicely, there is no problem. When they fall out of balance with one another, the philosophical engineer moves in, hoping to correct the situation and incidentally, gain new knowledge. These two, the Snorap and the Lut, had discovered this world they were on to be a new one, not heretofore checked, and they had just spent the last eighty years or so in going over it. Their own ship -- which was more of a space-sled than a ship, being completely open, except for an energy shield for meteor protection -- was clear on the other side of the planet, they having wandered away from it completely in the past half-century of philosophy-testing. Now they had just stumbled on a pair of human immigrants. These soft little bipeds were a new experience to the Snorap and the Lut, neither of their races having encountered the type before; and they sat in the obscurity of the vegetation that hemmed the little clearing where the human ship had landed, conversing in something that was not verbal speech, sign language, nor telepathy, but a mixture of all three -- and they marveled. 'T do not understand it," repeated the Snorap. 'T literally fail to comprehend. They will most certainly perish." "Undoubtedly," replied the Lut, blinking his green eyes. "They believe in their machines, I think." He indicated the domed metal hut and the low hydroponics tankbuilding, like the top half of a loaf of bread cut off and set close to the ground, and the small ship beyond, from which the two human figures were laboring to extract the motors for their power plant. The planet was at the hot end of its summer and the temperature was above a hundred and forty degrees fahrenheit, a fact the Snorap and the Lut did not even notice. The humans sweated in conditioned clothing and face masks. "But that is no way to meet the challenge of environment," said the Snorap, quite honestly distressed. "No way at all. Suppose the machines fail? They will shrivel in the sun or congeal in the cold." "I give them four months," said the Lut, snapping his heavy jaws closed. "I'm afraid so," said the Snorap. "Their home world must be badly out of balance if they take the easy way of machines instead of trying to adapt. There can be no endurance, no philosophical strength in such creatures. Their original planet must be very badly off. I wonder where it is?" "When the machines break down, they will have to leave," said the Lut. "We will follow." And with entirely inhuman patience, the two settled themselves in the shadow and shelter of the vegetation to wait. asked the Lut. He had been napping for the past two weeks; leaving the Snorap to observe. The Snorap, who slept only during the process of regrowing a lost limb, was quite obviously fascinated. "They've been getting ready for winter," he answered. "Oh, winter," said the Lut, getting up and stretching himself like the big cat he somewhat resembled. "That's right." The planet they were on did not tilt on its axis, but had an orbit that carried it quite well out from its sun during the shorter part of the year. The result was a brief, but very severe winter. The temperature had, in fact, fallen a good hundred degrees since they had first sighted the human clearing; but neither the Snorap nor the Lut paid any attention to this, a difference so minor hardly registered on their senses. Under a heavy, gray sky, the humans were working feverishly to bank up the living dome, the hydroponics tank-building and the ship. They had set up the ship's motors in a little structure off to one side, with a thick pipe-like affair running from it to the dome and off to the hydroponics building. The Lut cocked his eye at the banks of earth. "Why?" he asked. "Insulation, I would imagine," replied the Snorap. "It won't work," said the Lut. "The blizzards will blow it away." "Not if it freezes first," said the Snorap. "They are ingenious." "Now I suppose they'll go inside and hole up until the warmth comes," said the Lut. "An underground sort of existence." He looked across the chill earth to where the two humans were laboring with hand shovels to pile the crumbly brown soil of the planet against the side of the motor-building. "How do you tell them apart?" "They are almost identical, aren't they?" said the Snorap. "However, if you take the trouble to figure it out, you'll notice one has a slightly greater mass than the other. I call them the Greater Biped Colonist and the Lesser Biped Colonist. Great and Less for short. That's Great going around the comer of the motor building right now. And Less is still digging." "I wonder why there are two of them? said the Lut thoughtfully. "There are two of us," said the Snorap. "Of course," said the Lut, "but there's reason for that. We're different life forms. Our senses and abilities complement each other. But these two are exact duplicates. Doesn't make sense." "Nonsense," retorted the Snorap. "There could be all sorts of possible explanations. For instance one might be a spare." "A spare?" "What's so fantastic about that?" said the Snorap. "Consider how fragile they are; and how far they are, undoubtedly, from their home world." "All the same," said the Lut, snapping his big jaws shut, "I cannot agree with such a hypothesis. It is unmoral in the extreme." "I merely offered it as one possible explanation of why there were two of them," replied the Snorap, glancing at his friend and companion. "While you've been napping I've devoted a lot of time to close observation of them. Do you know what I deduce?" "Don't ask rhetorical questions," grumbled the Lut. "They haven't been civilized for more than eight or ten thousand years." "What? Ridiculous!" snorted the Lut. "Obviously they're young; but eight to ten thousand is utterly fantastic." "Not when you stop to consider this philosophical imbalance that has driven them to the production of machines for any and every possible use. That in itself is the worst possible danger signal. Undoubtedly it has sapped all of their moral fiber." "I might point out," said the Lut, "that, to migrate to a world like this when you are like that, takes a certain amoimt of moral fiber." "Ah, but there we come to another question," persisted the Snorap, interlocking the big, blunt claws of his forepaws together like a pedantic old man. "What reason can they have for coming here? They show no intellectual interest in the planet. Their senses are obviously very limited. They seem to have no purpose in being here other than to exist." "Under great difficulties," said the Lut. "Granted," answered the Snorap, "under great difficulties. Which merely confirms my belief in their unbalance." The Lut was by nature a contrary creature; and in addition he was always snappish after a nap. "And I," he retorted, "prefer to assume that there may be some good reason which you and I are too dull-witted to understand." "My dear fellow -- " protested the Snorap, aghast. "Why not?" The Lut sat down rather complacently. "Simply because you and I know and understand the philosophies of some hundreds of thousands of different intelligent life forms, it does not necessarily follow that we will be able to know and understand this one. Now does it?" "No, but -- but -- the Snorap was actually floundering in the sea of the Lut's sophistical argument. "You will have to admit," said the Lut, "that there is room for reasonable doubt. Let us clarify the argument. You say that machines have sapped their moral fiber. Therefore, it is clear that without their machines they will show no instinct or capability for survival. Is this not so?" "Exactly," said the Snorap, stemly"And I," went on the Lut, "disagree. I do not understand, any more than you do, what they are doing here, why there are two of them, or what their philosophy of life is. But I claim that no members of a race which has made a migration to a world where conditions are so inhospitable to them, as this one, can be lacking in moral fiber. Now, I propose that we abanbon our work on this planet temporarily, and observe these two instead -- until we come to a conclusion." 'And if I should turn out to be right," countered the Snorap, stiffly, "do you agree to locating their home planet and doing a thorough job of philosophical re-balancing on this race?" "I do," replied the Lut. "But what if I should turn out to be right. What concession will you make?" "Concession?" said the Snorap, blinking. "Certainly," said the Lut. "It's only fair that I should stand to gain something as well. If I am right, do you agree to introducing ourselves to them; and introducing them to the fact that many other intelligent races exist, of radically different philosophies?" "I do," said the Snorap. He turned his heavy lizard-like muzzle to the sky. "And here comes the winter to seal the bargain and administer the first environmental test to our subjects." From the dark sky, a first few snowflakes were falling. Around the buildings. Great and Less, the two odd little bipeds, tamped their last shovels-full of earth into place; and went inside the domed living quarters. The day wore on and darkness came swiftly. The ground was covered now with snow and the air was thick with swirling flakes. The wind rose to a banshee roar, tugging and tearing at the buildings and the freezing earth banked up around their perimeters. et's local time, the snow ceased blowing, the distant winter sun came out, and the temperature dropped sharply to about eighty degrees below zero fahrenheit. Behind the denuded branches of the vegetation surrounding the clearing, but almost as well shielded by their twisted tangle as they had been when leaves sprouted from the black limbs, the Snorap and Lut sat in the snow, watching the dome. "What are they doing in there?" the Lut kept asking. The Snorap's sense of hearing was more adaptable than that of the tigerish alien; and he had been keeping his companion posted on what went on out of their sight. "They're talking," replied the Snorap. "Still?" said the Lut, registering astonishment. "How can a strictly verbal language contain enough concepts to permit of prolonged discussion?" "I don't understand it myself," answered the Snorap. He had been trying to learn the biped language from what he could overhear. "A lot of their talk doesn't make sense." "Multi purpose expressions?" said the Lut, who ordinarily was something of a linguist himself. " -- No -- " replied the Snorap. "Dropped metaphors?" persisted the Lut, thinking of a little known race on the fringe of the Magellenic cloud. "No," said the Snorap. "Elided constantual hyperbo -- " "No!" said the Snorap, thoroughly exasperated. "It just doesn't make sense. The language is simple enough, it's the way they use it. They call each other by so many different names I don't know which is which any more -- " n ( Inside the dome, Great had just adAessed Less as a tin-headed idiot.) "Utter, utter, utter illogic and confusion!" stormed the Snorap. "Take a rest," suggested the Lut. "Forget about them for a while and let's have a talk about relative gravitic strains in a forty-body system." Gravitic strains were the Snorap's hobby at the present and had been for the past two hundred years. Grumblingly, he allowed himself to be persuaded. He and the Lut withdrew their attention from the clearing. Great and Less grew sleepy and went to bed. Unnoticed by human or alien, a pipe in the hydroponics building that was too close to the deadly cold of the outer wall, burst. Liquid sprayed from it onto the floor of the building; and gradually, but with an inexorable steadiness, the level of the nutrient fluid in the planting tanks began to go down. "I blame myself," said the Snorap, miserably. "I blame myself." "What for?" snapped the Lut. "We aren't here to protect them. We're waiting around to see if they have any moral fiber. I should think you'd be pleased by the whole thing." "Pleased!" said the Snorap. They had just been watching Great and Less as they struggled in temperatures that were now below the hundred-below-zero mark, to transfer what could be salvaged from the hydroponics building to their living-dome. Helmeted and bundled in heavy suits, they had been losing ground in their salvage effort. Finally, in desperation they had cut down on clothing and had substituted improvised face masks. This permitted them to carry more on each trip, but rendered them more vulnerable to the cold. Less had collapsed twice before giving up; and Great had finished the job alone. Apparently he had a touch of frostbite in his lungs, though. Less was doing what their meager stock of medical equipment permitted, to mend the condition. The Snorap, sitting with the Lut in the shelter of a drift, had suffered for the bipeds as he watched them work. The truth of the matter was that the Snorap balanced a tendency toward gloomy judgements with a very soft heart indeed. "Are you convinced now?" asked the Lut. The Snorap shook himself back into a less emotional frame of mind. "No," he said. "No. They didn't sit down and fold their hands when their machine failed, true. But we -- I -- am concerned with a matter of proper racial philosophy. What strength have these creatures aside from the strength of their machines and their own strength to make more? What else have they? Here we have only one machine that has failed. What if they all failed? What if the idea of machines failed? They must prove that it is more than their pride in their ability to build that has given them reason to think that they can successfully dare strange worlds." "Humph!" said the Lut. "But a race cannot grow without a proper philosophy, you know that," said the Snorap, almost pleading with him. "Well -- " growled the Lut. "I think I'll go for a walk. Need some exercise." He turned and loped off into the snow. When he reached a level spot out of sight of the Snorap he turned on the speed, and the barren winter plains were treated to the sight of him burning up his ill-humor at the rate of better than a hundred miles an hour. For the Lut was in a bad temper and did not quite like to ask himself why. The Snorap, left alone, looked doubtfully at the buildings in the clearing. 'T don't think I'm too hard on them," he said. "I don't think I am -- T he short winter wore itself out ; and spring came in with a rush. The snow disappeared; and the ground around the buildings became brown mud. Great, fully recovered, and Less could be seen daily extending the clearing in the direction of a stream that ran from the hills west of their buildings down onto the plain below. "Now, what's the point of that?" the Lut asked the Snorap. "I'm not sure," answered the Snorap. "It has something to do with the hydroponics building." They both turned to look at the corpse of that ill-fated piece of biped machinery. The hydroponics tank-building had been, indeed, a little miracle of compact and efficient mechanical engineering. Single parts and sections had had numbers of different functions. The result was that by bad luck, when that single pipe had burst, it had started off a chain of breakdowns; which, in the incredible cold of the winter, had ended by destroying the buildings use completely. Neither the Snorap nor the Lut could see what good might be gotten out of it now. They found out a few days later, when Great and Less began to plant in the muddy soil the seeds and shoots from the vegetable things they had saved. The soil itself they treated with chemicals and other necessary ingredients from the ruined building. "Very clever," approved the Lut. He turned to the Snorap. "How do you like that?" "Very good," said the Snorap. "But may I point out that if they are to prove themselves by doing without their machines, they'll have to do without all of them?" "You might give them credit for this anyway," said the Lut. "I do," the Snorap answered. "It is, truthfully, a vtery creditable step and one I had never expected from them." "If the crops prosper, they can extend their planting," the Lut pointed out. "That is true." " -- And with the long summer they have on this world they can probably get in two or three crops before the next winter." "The possibility," said the Snorap politely, "had not entirely escaped my notice." The year warmed gradually. For a matter of weeks there was anxiousness in human and alien hearts alike, until the first shoots of the planted things began to show their heads above the brown soil. "Beautiful," said the Snorap, one dark night, looking over the field with the Lut. He bent down to touch the soft firmness of a soft green spear-tip. His night vision, like the Lut's was fully equal to the task of appreciating it in full color, although the humans would hardly have been able to see their hands before their faces. "Here indeed is beauty, and strength and purpose. In alien soil it fights as valiantly toward the light of a strange sun as ever it fought for the light of its native star from the womb of its natural earth." "It and the bipeds are probably sons of the same mother world," remarked the Lut. "Almost undoubtedly," answered the Snorap, abandoning the plant and straightening up. "But there are good and bad on all worlds, as you well know, my friend." The ice-green eyes of the Lut softened to turquoise. "Except on Lut," he said. "And Snorap," added the Snorap. "And some few others where the creatures have grown older and attained wisdom..." His words trailed off ; and they stood together in silence for a moment, each thinking of the world that was his home... "I will go home one of these days," said the Lut. "I, too," answered the Snorap. He paused, looking off toward the eastern horizon, beyond which he could sense the approaching dawn. "What drives us, Lut? All the many in so many ways and alike in one. What is this inescapable concomitant of intelligence, that a thinking being should be always hungry for the new and always wistful for the past?" "I do not know," replied the Lut, "it is beyond philosophy." "So many things," said the Snorap, "are beyond philosophy -- " They were feeling the weight of the universe as all thinking beings do, when they open their souls to the unknown. In their hearts they stood with bowed heads before the Mother of all Mysteries, the great and final Why? which is never answered, but merely moved back a step by those who win knowledge. The mood lasted for perhaps die space of five minutes ; and then they had come back to their ordinary selves again. "I gave them four months," said the Lut. "That time is up already." "And I at least," said the Snorap, "am no closer to understanding their basic philosophy, if, truly, it is not that the machine is the answer to all problems." "They have a strong will toward survival." "I must admit it," replied the Snorap. "But that by itself is pure animal, non-thinking animal. And while we do not condemn the animal, we do not reach out our hands to him in friendship as you want us to do with these bipeds." "I have a hunch," said the Lut. "Real or wishful?" asked the Snorap. They were talking about a subconscious reasoning process that both knew to exist, but both instinctively distrusted. "I don't know," said the Lut. "But their pattern of living is at odds with the conditions here. I foresee trouble." earth dried under a swelling sun and thrust forth the fruit of the bipeds' planting. Great and Less harvested feverishly under a cloudless sky, while the south winds that blew steadily now, grew stronger and warmer, day by day. Finally the crops were all in and the ground re-planted. From the wreckage of the hydroponics building they had constructed a granary; and this was stocked with all that they had brought in. With the strengthening winds and the heat came dust storms blown up over the empty plains and carried up the slopes into the shallow hills where Great and Less had built. Behind the screen of the new-grown vegetation behind the clearing, the Lut and the Snorap watched an area in which the humans were seldom seen. Heat as fierce in its own way as the cold of the winter past, held them virtual prisoners in the dome. 'It is not good for them," the Snorap informed the Lut. "Why?" asked the Lut. An eighty mile-an-hour gale was sandblasting away at his scales, without apparently affecting them, beyond polishing them up so that they shone more brightly. "The wind. The sound of the wind," said the Snorap. "And the fact that they cannot go outside. They are often nervous and angry at one another without reason." "The season will pass," said the Lut indifferently. "One day the winds will start to drop; and then it will be fall." -- And, of course, eventually it happened. The bipeds came forth at last into a temperature of a little over a hundred degrees. The wind had dropped steadily for nearly a week. Now it shifted suddenly to the north -- and the rains came. Gently at first; and then with increasing violence, they poured down on the dusty earth. The ground p u ff e d , soaked, and steamed in the short intervals of sunshine. And after several weeks the two went out to examine the fields they had planted for the second growing season. They found a muddy desert. With time growing short before the winter, they had to break into the stored treasure of the granery and gamble that one more crop could be gotten in before the frost came. "Do you think they'll have time?" the Lut asked Snorap. "I don't know," replied the Snorap. "Theoretically they should. But will these crops grow as fast as those planted at the start of the summer?" "Hum," said the Lut, thoughtfully. "Well, they've got an even chance, anyway." Over the months, the Lut and the Snorap had grown sensitive to small changes in the two bipeds. But they were not perceptive enough to sense that the constant struggle for existence had strained the nerves of both humans to the breaking point. Indeed, they were living together now, through this second planting, like two caged animals, avoiding each other as much as possible for fear that a chance word would bring them into open conflict. This, the two aliens did not sense. Only the physical elements got through to them. "Their mass has gone down," the Lut remarked critically to the Snorap one afternoon in late summer as the two sat watching the bowed figures readying the clearing for the approaching winter. "Possibly they do not have enough food' answered the Snorap. "I don't think that's it," said the Lut thoughtfully. "More likely it is overexertion. They are exercising themselves for long hours these last few weeks." "They talk less," said the Snorap. "And they do not laugh," added the Lut, who had finally gotten around to mastering the biped language and was able to grasp the difference between laughter and speech. "But maybe when the crop starts to show itself above ground they will cheer up." "The visual emergence of new life into the world always has a stimulating effect," said the Snorap. "For those capable of understanding, it connotes the ever-fresh wonder of existence renewed." "I was thinking more," said the Lut, "of what those crops mean to them in terms of food through the winter." "That, of course, too," agreed the Snorap, a little miffed at being interrupted in his philosophizing. But the first sight of the second crop pushing its way through the brown soil did have the good effect the Lut had anticipated. The two bipeds relaxed and fell once more into an easy, happy relationship between themselves. This second harvest came more slowly, indeed, but the growth was strong and hardy; and the yield, if anything, a shade heavier. But now, with the ripening of the planted things, the native life of the planet came to prey upon the growing fields. Where they had been during the sterile winter, and through the fresh spring and the blasting heat of mid-summer, it was impossible to tell. It seemed vaguely to Great and Less that they had noticed some native life around before, but never paid a great deal of attention to it. The smallest came first -- insects of all sizes and tiny animals ; and the two bipeds, working late, dug a deep moat around their planted ground and filled it with water diverted from the stream beyond the fields. After these came larger animals; and for a few nights one or the other was always on duty all night long with a missile-hurling device that the Lut and the Snorap recognised as a weapon -- for the larger animals came only in the hours of darkness when the bipeds were not visible in the fields. This last fact finally struck home to the mind of Great, and the Lut and the Snorap saw him out in the fields one day, setting posts about their perimeters. On each post was a short, thick tube and from each post to the next ran what looked like heavy black rope. That night they went forth to investigate after dark. "Cable," said the Snorap, picking up a section of it, "designed to conduct some form of energy. Gome to think of it, I did notice Less working around the power-house; but I was so interested in what Great was doing out here, I didn't pay much attention. Now I wonder -- " At that moment, at the furthest end of the field, one of the tubes atop a post seemed suddenly to explode and throw out colored balls of fixe at a great rate. It was, in fact, nothing more than a self-refueling roman candle, although that particular comparison did not occur to either the Snorap nor the Lut, in spite of the fact that they understood the nature of the thing almost instantly. Hardly had the pyrotechnics of the first ceased, when the next one up the border of the field burst out and lit up its own section. The Lut and the Snorap drew back into the darkness. "There!" said the Lut in triumph. "You see the difference? The biped does not depend on the machine. It is a tool that he uses as he sees fit." The Snorap turned his heavy head and looked at his companion. "Well?" demanded the Lut. "You must admit that I'm right. Listen!" The sensitive hearing of the two ranged out into the darkness behind them. "The wild ones are frightened and drawing away." "I admit it," said the Snorap ponderously. "But all through this business you have made it a practise to misunderstand me. It is not how the biped uses the tool that is important. It is whether he can lay aside the tool. It is whether he can attempt something where the tool will not aid him. It is his ability to conceive of meeting a problem without tools. When he shows evidence of that, and only then will I and call him brother." The Lut's eyes glowed with green anger. "You are being unfair," he said. "The centuries past have taught me your nature. You mistrust your own softness of emotion which kindles an instinctive fellow feeling between you and the bipeds. In your efforts to be impartial you lean over backwards and place the benefit of the doubt against them." There was enough truth in this to make the Snorap wince inwardly. "After all those same centuries," he retorted bitterly, "must we descend to personal criticism?" "Truth is truth!" said the Lut. And his great jaws rang shut together. "Your conclusions are your own." "And I stand by them!" said the Snorap. "And I by mine!" For a moment they stood facing each other. Then the Snorap turned away and headed back to the shelter of their accustomed vegetation. The Lut stood watching him go for a minute; then he also turned and headed out away from the clearing, to run the plains and think himself back to reasonableness. In the dome, the two exhausted humans slept their first good night of sleep in weeks. Two days later they began their harvesting. By the end of the first day they had gathered in the produce of perhaps a fifth of their fields. And on the second day of harvesting. Less staggered suddenly and sat down. Watching in a mutual silence from which the old friendly warmth was still missing, the Lut and the Snorap saw Great break off his own work and run to the fallen biped. "For God's sake, don't quit now!" they heard him say. "I can't," said Less, looking up from the ground. "I can't do any more." "We've got to get this stuff in!" cried Great, helplessly. "One day -- " Less forced the words through worn lips "let's take one day off. I can't go any more, I tell you!" "Something may go wrong -- Less stirred and weakly rose; then turned toward the dome. "The weather's good. The gadget you made will keep the beasts selves. I've got to get some sleep." For a long moment Great stood watching the other biped move slowly off toward the dome. Suddenly, he cursed. He threw down the tool he was holding and followed. The Snorap and the Lut turned to look at each other. "They are giving up," said the Snorap. "They are leaving the machine to guard the field." The Lut faced him. "I don't blame them," he said. "To me," replied the Snorap, "they are failures." They stood looking at each other. "I think," said the Lut at last, "I think that we no longer possess the mutual understanding necessary to our partnership." The Snorap bowed his head. "I cannot disagree," he said. There was pain in both of them. "Our association in the past has been a long and good one," said the Lut. "I will remember it." "Nor will I forget," said the Snorap. He paused. "I will wait here a little while yet to see the end of this." "I will wait also, then," the Lut answered. They stood facing each other. Suddenly, the Snorap raised his head and tilted it, listening to the southward. After a second the Lut's head followed suit. " -- And the end comes now," said the Snorap. T here are monsters on all young worlds. The creature that came northward over the plains, migrating with the seasons from tropics to temperate zone, was a proof of that statement. Vegetarian but vast, in size and strength beyond all natural enemies of his world, his body was all head, horns and stomach, balanced on four pillar-like legs; and he followed the comfortable temperatures of cool autumns northward, gleaning the land as he went. From far out on the dark plains, he had scented the bipeds' crops. But because he stood at that time up to his tremendous midlegs in soft second growth grass, he had not turned immediately but had continued to feed where he was. When dawn came he had slept, standing with rock-like motionlessness upon his pillar legs. But when the midday breeze brought a scent of the ripe growing stuff once more to his flaring nostrils, he had stirred out of his sleep and methodically began to feed toward the clearing. The Lut looked at the Snorap and the Snorap looked away. The beast came on toward the edge of the field, moving with inexorable ponderousness. Some fifty yards away impatience seemed to break through his normal calm, and abandoning his slow feeding pace, he lifted his head and broke into a sudden trot toward the orderly rows of cultivation. Still -- amazingly -- he made almost no sound with his feet. The vibration, rather than the noise of his swinging stride, quivered through the earth and was felt by the Snorap and the Lut. Nothing could have been more eerie than this huge monster, looming large even in comparison with the buildings in the clearing, running silently toward the deserted fields under the bright, cloudless sky of the afternoon. In the dome, the vibration reached through the fogs of Great's sleep, and stirred him. He moved, groaned, and opened his eyes. He lay on his back, listening, with his eyes open. The monster had reached the edge of the field. He slowed and halted, the burnt metal smell of the roman candle pots stirred his little brain to caution. Slowly he moved up the line of cable to the nearest one and sniffed at it, the sound of his heavy snuffling audible to the Snorap and Lut behind their screen of branches. Suddenly he screamed -- a fantastic sound that rolled and reechoed between open earth and empty sky. And, lifting himself on his hind legs, he pounded with both forelegs on the post, driving it into the dusty ground. And, as if this action had set loose the fires of his rage, he began almost to dance on the remains of the heavy post, mashing it to matchstick wood. From the dome. Great and Less came tumbling. Less, half asleep and reeling with fatigue. Great cursing and trying to arm the weapon he carried -- the gun the Snorap and Lut had seen him use when he tried to drive away the night predators on the fields. Finally dropping on one knee he fired at the monster. A puff of dust rose from behind the creature's heavy shoulder, and it turned to charge the human. Great had aimed instinctively for where the heart is on animals of his native world. But this creature now bearing down upon him had no heart -- as Snorap and Lut could have told Great. His circulatory fluid was literally pumped through his body by little muscles lining his veins and arteries. Great fired again -- this time for the head. And the missile ricocheted from the heavy bone plates as from a granite boulder. The Snorap made an unhappy sound. The second shot had caused the monster to hesitate. Now, weaving its head back and forth, it caught sight of Less and turned after this new quarry. Less took one panicstricken glance at the towering creature; and ran blindly into the open space that separated the clearing from the fields. Great fired twice more before the gun jammed. By that time, the monster was upon Less. But, fantastically, because of its speed and huge bulk, it overran the fleeing biped, and Less stumbled and fell without being touched. For perhaps two seconds, while the monster was slowing and turning, Great continued to wrestle with the weapon. Then, seizing it by the barrel and swinging it like a club, he ran forward toward the creature. "What is this?" cried the Snorap. The monster had wheeled now and stood confronting them both. Great passed the fallen Less, shouting "Get to the dome. Get to the dome! Fll hold him!" The monster screamed his fury and turned to follow; and Great ran on, a living lure to give Less time to reach safety. "No moral fiber, eh?" snarled the Lut, leaping to his feet. He started to spring from concealment, but the Snorap gripped him. "I will go!" cried the Snorap. "I was wrong. It's my responsibility." "But my pleasure!" growled the Lut. "You take care of the bipeds." He wrenched away, and was gone. Great had succeeded in dodging the monster's first rush. He stood now, panting, as the titanic thing whirled to come back at him. Less, instead of running toward the dome, was running toward him. And at that moment, the Lut broke into the open. He crossed the distance separating himself from the monster like one long flash of glittering light. Reaching up with a forelimb as he passed he dealt it a blow that staggered it. For a second it stood dazed; then it raised its head and screamed. The Lut stood looking at it, from a few feet before it. His ice-green eyes caught the wild black ones of the creature and held them. "Go away," said the Lut, very softly. He was reaching out with his own mind to the mind of the creature, trying to impress it. "Go away," repeated the Lut. "I do not want to hurt you." The creature roared and shifted uncertainly, feeling an uneasiness that it could not understand. For a moment it fought for decision -- then it charged. The Lut shot from the ground like a projectile and met it head to head. There was a sound like a tree breaking in a high wind. The heavy bone Aat had warded off the missile from Great's gun, gave like cardboard before the fantastic stuff of which the Lut's body was constructed. The creature tumbled backwards, lay for a moment, then slowly struggled to its feet and reeled off like something half-conscious. It's huge forehead was caved in and dark fluid dripped from it and dropped on the ground as it went. "It will live," said the Lut, looking after it. He turned to look at the bipeds. The Snorap had come up and Great, with Less shoved behind him, was frantically trying to unjam the gun and shoot at them. "Put that thing away," said the Lut. "We're friends." The man froze, his hands on the breech of his weapon. The Lut was forming the human words by swallowing air and forcing it back through his capable throat muscles; and the result was a deep, growling bass that did not at first identify itself with rational speech. "I said we're friends," said the Lut. "We've been watching you for a year now. Besides, your weapon there can't hurt us." He turned to the Snorap. "Say something to reassure them that you're not a wild animal." "I have been guilty of badly misjudging you," said the Snorap humbly to the humans. He was talking by the same process and the humans looked from him to the Lut as if they suspected the latter of being a ventriloquist. "Who -- who are you?" asked Great at last. "We," said the Lut, "are individual members of two old and respected races, from elsewhere than this system. You might refer to me as a Lut and to my friend as a Snorap. And you call yourselves ? The man laughed a little wildly. Exchanging introductions with two nightmare beings after a hairbreadth escape from death, has a tendency to make anyone a bit hysterical. "We're humans," he said. "I'm Jos Pamer. This is my wife, Gela." "Wife?" said the Lut. "Why yes," said Jos. "My wife." "What is a wife?" asked the Lut. "Why -- a wife -- " answered the human in astonishment. "I'm a man, she's a woman. Male -- female "You mean," demanded the Lut, "that your race is bisexual?" "Of course," answered the man. "Isn't everything? Aren't you --  He broke off and stared at them. "You mean it's not usual?" The Lut turned his head slowly and looked at the Snorap, who sat down in the dust. "I am an old fool," said the Snorap, penitently, "I am a senile old idiot who ought to have my brains examined. Sitting here engaged in high speculation about the source of their racial philosophy and questioning their moral basis, when all the time they were loving each other and complementing each other's character-traits right under my very nose. What else would be the basis of colonization in a bisexual race but the family unit? Where but in the urge to build a home would their drive lie? What would be their courage, but love transformed?" He sat with head hanging. "I am an old fool." The Lut crossed over to him and hung his heavy head on the Snorap' s shoulder. "Friend of many years past and yet to come," he said. "We are old fools together."  those completely enjoyable science fiction stories which transcends mere good fiction writing. The story of a venerable old judge, who faces displacement by the faster, more accurate Cybers, machines not prone to human frailties and emotions in their legal decisions, it delivers a kind of wonderful sentimental sock and philosophical tenet that make you feel glad inside! ered old man who tossed a monkey wrench into an inter-planet war machine. For he was a veteran, and he should know, for he fought -- not in past wars -- but in the war to come!... Don't miss these and other fine stories and features in the March IF. Illustrated by Paul Orban No one took Old Arch seriously; he was just an ancient, brokendown wanderer who went about seeking alms and spreading tales of the great Outside. But sometimes children are curious and believing when adults are cynical and doubting... T here have always been the touched, the blesses, Ckd's poor. Such a one was Old Arch. Archer Jakes, the Wanderer of the Plains. They say he was born on Earth in # and taken to Mazzeppa as a child. That he learned pilotage and mining. But that he was injured in a cave-in on Hurretni in # or thereabouts, and then his wife died in a landing accident and his child was taken from him and adopted by people he never could find. Those things are too far distant in time and space to be verified now. But it is a fact that by #, when my grandfather Hockington Hammer was growing up in New Oshkosh, Old Arch was a familiar figure in all the Domed Cities of the Plains. He looked ancient then, with his deformed back that people touched for luck, and his wild hair and beard, and ragged castoff clothing. On his back he carried a roll of cloth he called his bed, though it looked like no bed any City man had ever seen. In his right hand he carried a staff of wood, unless someone bought it from him and gave all and why the guards? There's no him a plastic rod in its place. And pollution. Am I not alive?" in his left he carried what he called The guards would touch his a billy can, which was a food conhump and make circular motions tainer with a loop of wire across at the sides of their heads and raise the top for a handle, and the bottom their eyebrows as if to say, "Yes, blackened by what he said was fire, you're alive. But are you not crazy?" It would have been like no fire Still they would admit him, the any City man had ever seen. Even only nonresident to walk between the water in the can would be poithe Domed Cities of the Plains and son to a City man. When he came enter all of them; the only man to in the airlocks the guards would pass unharmed through the camps make him throw it away. of the Outsiders who lived in the "Why the lock?" he'd demand, open on the Plains at the heart of coming into a City. "Why the lock the North American Continent of and why the plastic bubble over Earth. And Old Arch would go to the residence buildings and he'd knock on someone's door -- any door, chosen at random -- and he'd say, "Have you seen the sky and do you know it's blue? Have you felt the soft kiss of the breezes? I can show you where to breathe fresh air." Maybe the people would say, "Phew! Does it smell like you, this fresh air?" and slam the door in his face. Or maybe they'd say, "Come on around to the back, Old Man, and we'll find you something to eat." Then Old Arch would shoulder his bed and pick up his billy can and his staff and walk down the stairs and go around to the back and walk up the stairs to the rear door. It might be an hour before he appeared there -- it might be two. When he did, the people would ask, "Why didn't you say something? You should have known they wouldn't let you in the elevator! And twenty flights down and twenty flights up again is too much for a man of your years." Then, the next time he came they would do the same thing again. In the kitchen he would refuse all the pills and potions and shots, and insist on bulky foods. These he would eat neatly, holding aside the long white hair around his mouth and brushing the crumbs from it often. What he couldn't eat right away would go into his blackened billy can. The children would come before he finished -- those of the household, and neighbor kids too. First they'd stand shyly and watch him from a doorway. Then they'd press closer. By the time he got through they'd be fighting to sit on his lap. The winner would climb up and sit there proudly. One of the losers, trying to prove he hadn't lost much, might wrinkle up his nose and say, "What's that awful stink. Old Man?" And Arch would answer mildly, "It's only wood smoke, son." Then the children would ask, "What's wood, please? And what's smoke?" And he would tell them. He would tell of the wind and the rain and the snow; of the cattalo herds that roamed to the west and the cities that lay to the east and the stars and the Moon that they never had seen. He would claim to have been in the endless forests and on the treeless plains and to have tasted the salt ocean and drunk of the freshwater lakes and rivers. The children would have heard, in their lessons and from their elders, enough to know what he was talking about. Sometimes they would tire of it, and ask him to tell of the distant planets and their faroff suns. But this he would not do. "You already hear too much about them," he'd say. "I want you to know Earth. Your own country. The one planet on which these plastic-covered cities are unnecessary, where you can actually go out and roll on the grass." Then the children might ask, "What's grass?" But their fathers would pointedly say, "What about the radioactivity. Old Man?" "I'm alive," he'd reply. "There's no radioactivity out there." But they'd say, "How can we be sure? There are individual differences of susceptibility. Probably you are unhurt by dosages that would kill any normal person." And the mothers would say, "Eat some more, Old Man. Eat -- and go. Bring our babies dreams, if you like, but don't try to tempt them Outside. Even if it isn't radioactive there, you've admitted it gets hot and it gets cold and the wind blows fiercely hard. Our babies were bom under shelter, and under shelter they must stay, like us and our parents before us." So Old Arch would brush off his whiskers one last time and maybe put on an old shirt the father dug up for him and then go out the back way. In spite of what might have been said, he would have to walk the twenty flights down to the ground because he wouldn't be invited to walk through the apartment to the front hall where the elevator was. Sometimes people were hostile when he spoke to their children, and they would have him arrested. He was then bathed and barbered in the jail, and was given all new clothes. But they'd always burn his bed, and he'd have trouble getting a new one. And sometimes a jailor might covet the pocketknife he carried, or take away his billy can. On the whole I think he preferred not to go to jail except perhaps in winter, when it was cold outside the City. There were always those ready to talk of asylums, and the need to put him away for his own good. But nobody was sure where his legal residence was, so he wasn't really eligible for public hospitalization. He kept to his rounds. My grandfather remembers standing in his mother's kitchen listening to Old Arch. It was like meeting one of Joseph's brethren and being told exactly what the coat looked like. Something exciting out of a dream from the remote past, when all the worlds had on them those bright moist diamonds Arch described as morning dew. My grandfather wanted to see the morning dew, though he knew better than to say so. Old Arch understood. He tried to make the thing possible. But an opportunity to see the morning dew was something he just couldn't give to my grandfather or anybody else. So he decided to sell it. He persuaded a charitable lithographer to make him a batch of stock certificates. They looked very authentic. Each said plainly it was good for one share of blue sky, though the fat half-draped woman portrayed in three colors stood outside a Domed City pointing not at the sky but at a distant river with forested hills behind it. Arch sold his certificates for a stiff price; ten dollars apiece. He could do it because by this time his wanderings followed a fairly definite route. The people who hated or feared or despised him were pretty well eliminated from it, and most of his calls were at apartments where he was known and expected and even respected a little. My grandfather's was one of these -- or rather, my great-grandfather's. When Arch first brought his stock certificates my grandfather was a little fellow everybody called Ham, maybe seven years old. He had a sister named Annie who was five. He's given me a mental picture of the two of them standing close together for reassurance, and from an open doorway shyly watching the old man eat and listening to him talk. When my great-grandfather bought a ten dollar stock certificate in my grandfather's name, my grandfather took it as a promise. And his little sister Annie was so jealous that the next time Old Arch came around my great-grandfather had to buy a share for her. eleven, twelve, every winter when Old Arch would come around, my grandfather and his sister Annie would ask, "When are you going to take us to see the sky. Arch?" And he would say, "When you're older. When your folks say you can go." And, "When it's summer, and not too cold for these old bones." But when my grandfather was fourteen he followed Old Arch out and down the stairs after the old man had paid his annual call, and he stopped him on a landing to ask, "Arch, have you ever taken anyone Outside?" "No," Arch said, sighing. "People won't go." "I'll go," said my grandfather, "and so will my sister Annie." Arch looked at him and put a hand on him and said, "I don't want to come between any boy and his parents." "Well," said my grandfather, "you sold them a share of sky for each of us. Do you really want us to have that, or do you just want to talk about it?" "Of course I want you to. But I can't take you Outside, boy." My grandfather was disgusted. "There isn't any sky," he said sadly. "It's all talk. The certificates were just for begging." "No," said Arch. "It's not all talk and I'm not a beggar. I'm a guide. But it's hard to see the sky right now because it's winter, and there are clouds all over." "Let's see the clouds, then," my grandfather said stubbornly. "I've never seen a cloud." The old man sat down on the stairs to consider the matter. "I can't do this thing to your parents," he said at last. "But you can do it to me and my sister," my grandfather charged wildly. "You can come to the house year after year after year, and tell us about the sky and the wind and the moon and the dew and the grass and the sun. You can even take money for our share of them. But when it comes time to produce -- when we're old enough to go where these things are supposed to be -- you think of excuses. "I don't believe there are any such things," he shouted. "I think you're a liar. I think you ought to be arrested for gypping my dad on the stock deal, and I'm going to turn you in." "Don't do that, boy," Arch said mildly. "Then take us Outside -- today!" "It's winter, my boy. We'd freeze." "You've said it's pretty in winter! You took the money for the certificate." "I suppose you'll grow away from your parents soon anyhow; I suppose you have to... Get your warmest clothes and meet me at emergency exit four." My grandfather talked it over with his sister Annie and of course they didn't have any warm clothes, but they'd heard so often from Old Arch about the cold that they put on two sets of tights apiece, and two pairs of sox, and then they hunted for the emergency exit. They'd never been there before. They didn't know anyone who had. The signs pointing to it were all worn and defaced. And it was a long way to go. After a while Annie began to hang back. "How do we know the exit will work?" she asked. "And how will we get back in if we ever do get out?" "You don't have to come," my grandfather said. "But you'll have to find your own way home from here." "I'll bet I could," she said. "But I'm not going to. I don't think Old Arch will even be at the exit." But he was. He looked at them carefully to see how they were dressed. "You mean trouble for me, girl," he told Annie. "They'll think I took you along to make love to." She had just reached that betwixt and between stage where she was beginning to look like a woman but didn't yet think like one. "Pooh!" she said. "I can run faster and hit harder than you can. Arch. You don't worry me a bit." Old Arch sighed and led them through the lock. They stepped out into a raging snowstorm, which soon draped a cloak of invisibility over them. Neither my grandfather nor Annie had ever smelled fresh air before. It threatened to make them drunk. Their nostrils tingled and their eyes misted over and their breath steamed up like bathwater. For the first time in their lives, they shivered. When the City was out of sight in the storm, they stopped for a moment in the ankle-deep snow and just listened. They held their breaths and heard silence for the first time in their lives. Old Arch reached down and picked up some soft snow and threw it at them. They pelted him back, and then, because he was so old, attacked each other instead, shouting and throwing snowballs and running aimlessly. Old Arch soon checked them. "Don't get lost," he said. "We're walking down hill. Don't forget that. We're going into a draw where there are some trees." He coughed and drew his rags about him. "The city is up hill," he said. "If you keep walking around it you'll find a way in." His tone was frightening. Annie clung to my grandfather and made him walk close to the old man. It was clear the old man didn't have enough clothes on. He staggered and leaned hard on my grandfather. They kept moving down the slight grade. They saw no sky and little of anything else. The snow was like a miniature of the City's Dome, except that this dome floated over them as they walked. Its edges were only about fifty yards off. "Where are the Outsiders?" my grandfather asked. "Aren't there people here?" "They're miles away," Arch told him. "And indoors. Only fools and youngsters are out in this blizzard." "Fools is right," Annie said tartly. "There was supposed to be sky. And there isn't." Old Arch staggered again. To my grandfather he said, "Could -- could you carry my pack?" My grandfather took it and they went on, stumbling blindly through knee-deep drifts, getting more and more chilled and less and less comfortable, 'til they came to a small clump of trees with a solidly frozen creek running through it. Here Old Arch made a lean-to shelter of windf alien limbs. Annie and my grandfather helped as soon as they understood the design. Arch spread part of his bed over the lean-to, breaking the force of the wind, and put ihe rest inside. Just outside, on a place scraped bare of snow, he built the first wood fire my grandfather and Annie had ever seen. He chipped ice from the creek and put it in his billy can and hung the can by its bail over the fire, and in due course they had a little hot tea. The youngsters felt cold but happy. The old man shivered and coughed. He'd kept moving till the tea was made. He sat still to drink it, and couldn't get up. "Go to bed," Annie told him. "Ham will get on one side of you and I'll get on the other. We'll keep you warm." Old Arch tried to protest but was almost beyond speech. The youngsters didn't know enough to iDrush the snow off him or themselves. They helped him roll up in his bedding and crawled under the lean-to after him. There they all lay in a heap, getting colder and damper and more miserable, till finally my grandfather couldn't stand it any more. He got up and looked around. The inverted cup of visibility was smaller. Darkness fell like a dyestuff, turning the white snow to gray, to black. It was a bitter night. The first he'd ever had outdoors. It was the first Annie'd ever had. The first either had ever spent at the futile task of holding off death. They knew Old Arch was dying. As the night wore on he sank into semi-consciousness. They hugged him and rubbed his lean old limbs. Just before morning the snow stopped. The old man roused a little, became gradually aware of his surroundings. "Go look at the sun," he murmured. "Go see the sunrise." They went out to look. Neither had ever seen a sunrise before. It was mauve first, then red, then gold, then blue. Venus led the way, and the sun followed. The moon, deep in the west, was like a tombstone to the dead night. A bird chirruped. A clot of snow fell from a tree with a soft rufile of cottony drums. My grandfather held his sister's hand and looked and sniffed at the great Earth from which he'd been separated by the fear-inspired plastic over his City, so near, now, in the clear morning night. He climbed with Annie up the side of the draw and looked out over snow-covered plains stretching to a horizon farther away than the longest distance he'd ever imagined. He went back and took Old Arch's head up on his knees and said, "Is it like this every day?" And the old man said, "No, each day is different." And my grandfather said, "Well, IVe seen one, anyhow." "That's what I've lived for," said Old Arch. And he smiled and stopped living. Annie and my grandfather left him there and went back to the City and told the guards and their family. A burial party was sent out; guards, in their helmeted spacesuits. People heard about it and followed. Everyone was curious because they'd all seen Old Arch and wondered about him. Hundreds of people went out the gate -- so many, the guards couldn't stop them. They saw the lean-to and the open fire and the woods and the snow and the frozen creek. They smelled the air and the smoke. They heard a bird. They tossed snowballs. And then they went back and flung rocks through their City's Dome.    way through Arctic ice to find the fabled Northwest Passage, long a lure to adventurers and explorers. The two ships successfully plowed their way through ice that was often four to ten feet thick to find the water route which links the Atlantic Ocean with the Pacific Ocean across the top of the world. One ship crushed and blasted its way through McClure Strait, while the other fought its way through from the Arctic Ocean, skirting along its southern edge. The Burton Island and the Northwind were both U.S. ships, but they were part of a joint United States-Canadian expedition conducting oceanographic and hydrographic studies in that area. The studies are part of a continuing research program to make the frozen wastes of the vast Arctic more accessible for military operations, and strengthening one of the most vital links in our combined continental defenses. Helicopters and naval specialists in underwater demolition, known as "frogmen", were invaluable contributions of both nations. The helicopters spotted new routes through the ice, and the "frogmen" helped to check the depth of ice fields, tested various explosives for blasting through them, and tried out underwater cameras designed for use in Arctic waters. Our citation this month goes to the governments of the United States and Canada, and to the men of the expedition, for this international defense venture in which they combined manpower, techniques, knowledge and equipment -- with daring, courage and common spirit -- to explore and strengthen this strategic Arctic area. Here is another look at the America of tomorrow -- by a Wilkes College sophomore, winner of the #rd prize in IP's College Science Fiction Contest... An America in which there is no more school, no more art, no more enterprise, no more intellectual pursuit -- a nation of hedonists. And in such a land, how could there be malcontents? Dreamtown U. S. A. slender, and perfectly proportioned. Her hair had been dyed platinum and was drawn back from her face by a mesh net which sparkled with red jewels. She stood in the middle of the room, head tilted back, eyes closed, moving in time to the music coming from an invisible transmitter. Her hands glided sinuously up and down either side of her body. She seemed oblivious to the people circling the room enjoying Gil Patton's party. It was only when she heard Brant's voice that she opened her eyes. "Lisa, you go for that stuff, I see," Brant called to her, referring to the music being piped into the room from one of Dream town's many Sensory Communications Centers. '-tv "It's really out of this world, Brant, way out, all out!" Lisa replied. She came over and sat on the arm of the chair in which Brant sprawled. "You can feel it way down here," she said, and placed her hand on the pit of her stomach. "Wonder how we ever got kicks out of that old stuff that you couldn't feel?" Brant asked as he placed his arm about Lisa's waist. "Just hearing music doesn't give you any glow." Brant slid farther down in the chair and stretched his legs out before him. The bluish light in the room glinted from the highly polished surface of his knee length boots. He wore loose-fitting yellow trousers and a black suede shirt split open almost to the waist, revealing his chest. "Have you tried one of Gil's new pebbles?" he asked Lisa. "No, what's new about them?" she asked. She wriggled into Brant's lap and rubbed her cheek against his chest. "They're slaughter. Instead of just getting a deeper feeling from real experiences, you can sit back and imagine something -- anything -- and you can feel the sensations of your fantasy. You can feel all that way down here, too," he said, touching, in repetition of Lisa's gesture, the pit of her stomach. "Get me one, Brant. Let's see what goes." Brant lifted Lisa to her feet and rose from the chair. His boots clicked against the green metal floor as he pushed his way through the crowd of merry makers toward a transparent glass bubble which was suspended from the ceiling by Illustrated by Leo Summers a silver chain. He pushed back the dispenser on the bubble and a cylindrical pill rolled out onto his hand. He carried it back to where Lisa sat swaying to the music which continued to fill the room. "Here child. This will really give you a dream' he said as he handed her the pill. Brant watched Lisa sink into the half coma that the senation pills produced. He leaned over and kissed her shoulder. Then he straightened and moved across the room to where Gill Patton stood in front of a glass wall which afforded a panoramic view of the entire city. "Good party, Gil," Brant said to his host. "I hoped it wouldn't be sad. Anything clicking?" Brant pointed to Lisa. "She is. Been trying your new pebbles." "How's the Assistant Director of Sensory Communications doing these days?" Gil asked as they walked across the room to a plastic table on which rested bowls of red, green, and yellow liquors. "Right and light. W'eve got a new show scheduled to go on the Distributor Cable in about another month. Runs twenty minutes two times a day. Morning and night. A serial about the Council." Gil turned to Brant with a drink in his hand. "Thought nobody knew anything about the Council except that they run Dreamtown." "No one does know very much about them. No one's ever seen them actually. But we've heard rumors that the Rebels have been influencing some of our citizens and word has come down to build this show for morale purposes." "Why, that's crazy. Who'd want to go back to the way it was before? Those Rebels are out of their heads!" Brant smiled. "Right man. But there are still some of them operating in the less populated areas. The Watchers brought in seven men and a woman last week from somewhere south of here. They found books in their hideout and even some paintings that one of the Rebels claimed to have done by hand." Gil whistled through his teeth. "You'd think they'd get with it and come back here. What are they getting out of this rebellion?" Brant reached over and touched Gil's arm. "Just between us, friend. Before they psychwashed these Rebels they found out that they had been plotting with other Rebel groups to overthrow Dreamtown. The Council has every available Watcher on their trail." "Couldn't ever happen, Brant. They don't have anything to fight with. Books. Pictures. They'll wise up and come over to us. Wait and see." Brant shrugged. "They forget we're living in # and the Big War's been over for nearly seventy years. They still think the old way was pretty good. But Gil, boy, we're getting serious. Let's stack it! The Watcher's will get them. It's not our problem." The girl was gazing through one of the windows in the small farmAnnouncement of the seven winners in IFs College Science Fiction Contest was made in the November issue. The stories winning the first and second prizes appeared in the December and January issues. house kitchen. A wild flower was pinned in her long, auburn hair and it matched, almost perfectly, the blue of her eyes. Even in slacks she was, not beautiful, but a wonderfully pretty girl of twenty four or five. "I wonder when he'll be back. Dad. It's been almost two days and I -- I'm worried." "He had a long trip to make, Nancy. Longer than usual because he had to make a detour around Dreamtown in order to get down to Ben's group. It's all of forty miles south of here. Don't you worry. He'll be back soon." The girl came away from the window and kissed Professor Alan Corbett on the forehead. "You're wonderful. Dad. So calm and sensible about things. I get scared though when I think of Dan going so close to Dreamtown. The Watchers patrol for miles around the city and they'd know Dan was a Rebel in a minute because of his clothes." "Dan won't get caught, Nancy. You get busy now and make some coffee and stop worrying," Professor Corbett smiled. "And afterward we'll play a little gin rummy if you feel like it." Nancy got up from the table and put the coffee pot on the stove. Her father turned back to the book lying open on the table before him. "This is such a treasure, Nancy. I wonder if you fully realize it." It was a copy of the complete works of only five copies of this still in existence to my knowledge; although there is a man in Ben's group who has been copying it by hand on paper the've stolen from Dreamtown. Only five copies. There might dreamtown, U.S.A be more, but we haven't been able to find them." Nancy poured steaming coffee into her father's cup and then into her own. She sat across from him at the table and watched as he lovingly examined the book in his hands. "Listen to this, Nancy." Nancy listened to Professor Corbett's quiet voice. "Is she kind as she is fair? For Beauty lives with kindness. Love doth to her eyes repair To help him of his blindness. And, being helped, inhabits there." "It's beautiful. Dad. Nancy watched her father as his eyes scanned the rest of the page. "You love books, don't you?" she asked softly. Her father looked up and took off his glasses. "Yes, Nancy, I guess I do. Teaching in the University was the greatest thing in my life because I was able to spend so much time with books. And, you know, in a way, they weren't just books, they were like old friends. Socrates, Aristotle, Chaucer, Shakespeare -- all the others. Every time I picked up one of those books it was like meeting old friends. And you never really get tired of old friends, you know. As the years go by they become dearer to you and you learn to appreciate their true value." Professor Corbett smiled a little sadly. "Nancy, it almost broke my heart when the Council abolished the schools and colleges and burned the books. That was the reason I joined the Rebels ever so long ago. And, of course, there were many others who felt as I did." Nancy sipped the hot coffee and watched her father drift into his reverie about the old days before there had been a Council or Watchers and when Dreamtown had really been just what the name implied. A dream city of books and learning and hard working men and women trying to put a civilization back on its feet after the disastrous Big War. Nancy thought of the kind of dreams that were dreamed in the city now. Dreams of pleasure and sensation. Empty dreams. Vapid dreams. "Do you know what the Council set up in place of the schools, Nancy? They built the biggest and brightest and most terrible playgrounds in the world. Children were taught to fight and to play; and the ones who fought hardest, regardless of rules, were considered the champions in each playground. They didn't bother to learn anything; they just played... " His voice trailed off. Nancy and her father drank their coffee in silence, each of them alone with their thoughts. Professor Corbett was back in his University classroom filled with the smell of chalk and the musty odor of books, and Nancy was out in the dark night somewhere with Dan, making the perilous journey to Ben's Rebel group. A sudden sound on the porch shocked both of them back to reality. Professor Corbett quickly dropped his book into a drawer of the table, rose and walked past Nancy who stared at the door with a mixture of hope and fear on her face. A soft knock sounded and, after a moment's hesitation, Nancy's father unbolted and opened the door. A tall young man wearing an old pair of blue jeans and a shirt from which most of the buttons were missing stood in the doorway. "Dan!" Nancy shouted and ran across the room and into his arms. His huge frame almost filled the doorway, as he bowed, his blonde head to murmur reassurances to Nancy, who cried with relief at having him safely back. "I'm alright, darling, -- but I'm afraid I've got bad news," Dan said. He released Nancy, keeping one of her hands in his. When the three of them were seated Dan spoke. "The Watchers must have gotten Ben and the others. The place was a shambles. Everything was destroyed. They probably took the group to Dreamtown. If they did, you know what that means." "Psychwashing," Professor Corbett muttered. He dropped his head in his hands. "Then you couldn't get the books?" he asked sadly. "No. They had been burned. And so had Ben's paintings. We can't wait any longer, Alan. We've got to organize and we've got to raid Dreamtown. We can't go on like this anymore!" Nancy tightened her grip on Dan's hand as Professor Corbett raised his head and nodded. "You're right, Dan," he said. "We can't afford to wait any longer." video panel in the ceiling of Brant's apartment clicked on automatically. To the accompaniment of shrill laughter in the background, the annoimcer told Brant and the other viewers that they were about to witness the next installment in the adventures of "The Pretty People." Brant stretched in his bed and groaned from the effects of the party the night before. He watched through half closed eyes as The Pretty People in their harlequin costumes chased each other about a meadow filled with artificial flowers. In spite of his discomfort Brant chuckled when Mannequina, with a violent blow, knocked Manequin from a large toadstool on which he had been seated. He laughed again as he watched Manequin roll down a hill and land in a giant mud puddle at the bottom. Brant eased himself out of bed and walked unsteadily to the cubicle in one comer of the room, stepped in, and closed the plastic door behind him. He rubbed his eyes and stretched as the soothing vigoro-senso rays removed the last traces of the discomfort brought on by too much liquor and too many sensation pills. Back in his room he switched on the dimensional theater set and watched the wall light up before him. Brant finished dressing to the sounds of laughter coming from The Pretty People on the ceiling video and the sighs and pleadings of two lovers in the dimensional theater set. On his way to the door Brant selected one of the milder sensation pills from the bowl on the low table, swallowed it, and passed through the sliding door panel into the street. He glanced at the gigantic clock which was suspended over the city like a cloud in the sky by thin steel cables. Each numeral on the huge face of the clock was composed of a man and a woman locked in an ardent embrace. Brant and several other people boarded one of the moving platforms as it stopped before them. The city sped by in a vari-colored blur. At die main Sensory Cornmunications Building Brant got off. The building loomed massive before him, its rose plastic exterior warm looking in the sunlight. Brant, with another glance skyward at the clock, went inside. He walked briskly down the jade hall and entered an office labeled Assistant Director of Sensory Communications. Lisa, seated behind a desk, greeted him. "We've got sun this morning, Brant. Have a good time last night?" "Had a ball, doll! You look great this morning." Brant said. "Benton in yet?" "Waiting for you," Lisa replied. "Told me to send you right in." Brant turned and entered the inner office of Axel Benton, Director of Sensory Communications for Dreamtown. Benton looked up and frowned as Brant entered. "The show on the Council has to go on two weeks earlier," he fairly shouted at Brant. "The Minister of Entertainment called this morning and he's hot! Says the Council is having a fit about the increase in activity among the Rebels; and rumors have been leaking out that they're planning to destroy Dreamtown. So they want the show on sooner. Also, they want a half hour show instead of twenty minutes." "Nobody cares what the Rebels are doing and it's crazy to think they could destroy the city. So what's all the rush about?" Brant asked angrily. "I figured you'd talk that way so I arranged a little session for you this morning that may bring you to yoiu senses, bright boy Brant," Benton retorted. He barked into the intercom on the desk. "Call downstairs and have them send up Jennings, Lisa," Benton ordered. A few minutes later the door slid open and Jennings was led in by two of the Watchers. He was a middle aged man who wore spectacles instead of the contact lenses which nearly everyone in Dreamtown wore when they needed glasses. The two Watchers stepped aside. They were young men, neither looked more than twenty five, with eyes as brittle as glass. Their black leather pants and jackets fitted tightly and steel cleats on their heavy boots grated wickedly on the floor with each step they took. Their hands, in black leather gloves, restly casually on their hips close to the hypno ray guns fastened to their belts. "Jennings," Benton began, "was found to be in possession of a book titled 'Principles of Human Knowledge' by George Berkeley. And Jennings, as you know Brant, was in a strategic control position here in the Center. He was in charge of show censorship for the whole Com center. "What do you mean, was in charge?" Brant asked. "Just that! He is no longer in charge. In fact, he is being taken now by these Watchers to the psych lab but I wanted you to realize the seriousness of this thing, Brant, so I had him brought here first." "He's going to be psychwashed?" Brant asked. "Of course, you fool!" "But why? Couldn't you just burn the book and throw him out?" Brant asked. "I wouldn't expect you to understand," Benton sneered. "The book he had is one of the most dangerous books ever written. It is against every principle on which Dreamtown is founded and if Lisa hadn't found it in his office -- ." "Lisa found it?" Brant asked. "Yes, and like the smart girl she is, she reported him to the Watchers right away." Benton motioned to the two Watchers and they stiffened immediately, seized Jennings who stared silently before him, and half dragged him from the room. "I never would have thought it of Jennings," Brant said softly. "That's just it! We can't be too careful," Benton said. "Are you sure he was a Rebel?" Brant asked. Benton's fist made a crashing sound as he brought it down on the desk. "Idiot!" he screamed. "What else could he be? No one but a Rebel would read such trash! Now get out of here, Brant. I want the format for the Council show finished in two days or you're going to find yourself in real big trouble! Seeing Jennings should wake you up and start you moving!" Brant rose. "I see what you mean. You'll have the format." "Good! We're bringing out a new sensation pill in a few weeks and we'd like to coincide the opening of this show with the release of the pill. Big promotion and all that. And, by the way, don't forget the show schedule for the annual Playground Festival." Benton turned back to the work on his desk as Brant left the office. M en and women were crowded into the smoke filled living room of Professor Corbett's farmhouse, and conversations were being carried on in hushed whispers. Nancy stood talking to Dan. Professor Corbett was near them busily engaged in conversation with two women and a man whose clothes looked as if they had seen many years of hard wear. Dan left Nancy and walked to the center of the room. His voice rang out vibrant and clear as he called for the attention of the gathered crowd. "I believe we are all here now. If everyone will sit down we'll begin the meeting." When everyone was seated Dan nodded to Professor Corbett. "You all know by now," Professor Corbett began, "that Ben's group was discovered and probably destroyed. We've been able to find no trace of them. Things have been going pretty badly for us, friends, and that is why we asked you all to make the effort to come here tonight. For many of you it's been hard ; you've come a long way. But we have to make a stand and we must make that stand together." Applause greeted Professor Corbett's introduction and, after hesitating a moment, he continued. "It is likely that Ben and the others were taken to Dreamtown and psychwashed. In the past few days we have received no word dreamtown, U.S.A from Jennings either. It is possible that he has been found out and is vmable to contact us. At any rate, we must operate on that assumption until we hear from him again. -- If we do," he added solemnly. Every eye in the group was fixed on Professor Corbett and every ear strained to hear each word he spoke. "The Watchers have been patrolling an increasingly wider area around Dreamtown, which necessitates moving our outposts farther away. This will make communications between our groups more difficult, but it is a necessary maneuver. Another thing. Take your books and music and paintings and anything else which might give you away, and hide them in some safe place. It is most important that we preserve what we have left. It must not fall into the hands of the Watchers." A woman in the group spoke. "We can't just keep running and hiding! We should do something!" "That is exactly the reason I asked you here tonight," Professor Corbett replied. "Dan and I have formulated a plan and we submit it to you for your consideration, approval, and cooperation. Dan, will you explain what we have worked out?" Dan rose and came to stand beside the Professor. "First of all," he began, "we need four volunteers to go into Dreamtown, get jobs, and wait for the raid. These four people will have to be in strategic positions on the day we raid the city. Two of them will open the North gates of the city. One will dynamite the warehouses where the sensation drugs are stored. And the fourth must in some way gain control of the Watcher's barracks and arsenal." There was excitement on the faces of the people who listened to Dan's words. They began to see a ray of hope and a course of action, and they leaned eagerly forward as Dan continued speaking. "Our first target when we raid the city, will be the Council Building. If we can get control of the Council we have the heart of the city in our hands." Two men stood up. "We want to volunteer to go to Dreamtown," they said. A woman rose and joined them. "If you can use a woman, I'd like to go too." Two other men volunteered, and there was much excited discussion in the small room. Dan held up his hands and asked for quiet. "Since four men have volunteered," he said to the woman, "we'd best use them. And now, if those four men will stay here with me, the rest of you can leave. You will be notified of details by runner, as in the past." The group broke up into smaller groups. Some went into the kitchen, where Nancy had prepared a lunch for them. Others prepared to leave for their own outposts. Professor Corbett was talking to an elderly man who had been a scientist in one of Dreamtown's first laboratories. "It's a copy of a research project done by a colleague of mine on the Relativity Theory. An astute paper, I'd say. I've been saving it for you," Professor Corbett told the scientist. "I have it hidden with most of my other books up on the hillside by the spring. Wait just a minute and I'll get it for you." "Never mind. Dad," Nancy said. She had been passing and overheard her father's remark. "I'll get it. You stay here and talk. I know you're having more fun than you've had in months and I wouldn't see you spoil it for the world." "But -- Professor Corbett tried to protest. "Hush, now. Be back in a jiffy," Nancy said as she slipped out the door into the darkness outside. Professor Corbett and the scientist continued talking. Others joined them and the discussion became heated. It touched on science, art, literature, and many other topics that had been important and common in the old days. A few minutes passed and Dan joined the group. "Where's Nancy, Alan?" he asked. Professor Corbett turned to Dan to explain Nancy's errand when the sound of a shrill scream from somewhere outside the house caused everyone to stiffen in fright. "It's Nancy!" Dan shouted and sprang for the door. He wrenched it open and, as he did so, a burst of flame seared out of the blackness, missing him by inches. Another scream followed the first. The people in the room were galvanized into action. Professor Corbett ran to a chest in a comer of the room. He unlocked it quickly and handed a ray gun to Dan. He distributed guns to most of the other men. The guns had been smuggled out of Dreamtown by Jennings and others over a period of years. Soon men were stationed at every window of the house firing out into the blackness. "It's the Watchers!" a woman shouted. "Be careful of your fire," Dan yelled, "they've got Nancy!" The firing continued, while Professor Corbett and some of the others struggled to smother a fire that had been started by a blast from a Watcher's ray gun. "I'm going out after them!" Dan shouted. Professor Corbett grabbed for Dan in an effort to stop him, but he was too late. The Professor left the others to battle the fire and raced after Dan. As he stumbled along in the darkness, he could barely discern Dan's figure racing in the direction from which the shots had come. There was no firing now and the hillside was quiet. Dan had stopped, and Professor Corbett joined him in the darkness. Both men looked frantically in every direction. "There's no trace of them. They got away, Alan. We held them off, but they've taken Nancy with them!" Professor Corbett put his arm around Dan's shoulder. His eyes filled with tears and he gripped Dan tightly. For a few seconds neither of them spoke and then Professor Corbett turned to Dan. "We'd better go back to the house." The two men turned and walked slowly back to the farmhouse where the others still battled the fire. Lisa and Brant walked down the street toward the Playground. "Benton liked your script for the Council show, Brant," Lisa said as they walked along. "It was a hard card to handle. I'll tell you," Brant said. "No one actually knows anything about the Council. We don't even know how many members there are. It was hard trying to get enough information to fill the show time, so I just reworked the old stories about the Council and added a few new ones." Lisa slipped her arm through Brant's. "I'm proud of you, honey. It must have been good to set Benton hopping like that. What'd you put in it?" "Just said the Council was Dreamtown's protector, provider and producer. Said the same thing twenty times in twenty different ways; but didn't answer any of the real questions about the Council." "No one asks any questions, Brant. Who cares how many men are on the Council or how they operate? So long as we have our flip food and parties -- who cares? You worry too much." Brant laughed and patted Lisa's hand. "You're right. Jennings worried too much and look what happened to him!" They continued down the street, standing aside once as a group of Watchers in semi-military formation passed them. As they turned a corner they saw the solid red wall that surrounded the Playground rising in the distance. "Will you be able to get the information you want here, Brant?" Lisa asked. "If they let us in," he replied. "I've never been in the Playground before, have you?" Lisa asked. "Once. A long time ago when it was first put into operation, but they say things have changed a lot since then," Brant replied. A watcher halted them as they approached the gate. Brant explained about coming to gather material for the forthcoming Playground Festival show and displayed his official Sensory Communications card. The Watcher directed them to wait and stepped into a booth at one side of the gate. Brant and Lisa saw him talking to someone on the video phone. A moment later he returned, unlocked the gate, and motioned them inside. Once in, they were met by another Watcher who led them down a long hall to a door at the far end. The silence of the hall was in direct contrast to the cacophony that met their ears as they stepped through the door into the Playground. Children of both sexes and of every age and size filled the Playground. Nearly all were shouting at the tops of their voices. Scattered among the group were men and women dressed in the briefest of costumes. Some participated in the children's games, but most stood and watched, in rather stony silence, the activity before them. From one of the small buildings within the Playground, a young man walked toward Lisa and Brant. The Watcher stepped aside as he approached. 'T am Kirk Rodson," the man said to Brant and Lisa. "Director of the Playground. Can I help you?" Brant introduced himself and Lisa to the man, and explained their purpose in coming to the Playground. "I see," Rodson said. "There's not much to tell. Children are brought here immediately after birth and are cared for in our laboratories. Their instruction in walking and talking is accelerated by specially trained personnel. As soon as an infant learns to walk he is released into the Playground with the others for a specified time each day. He is fed a specially prepared diet. As he grows older, he is left in the Playground for increasingly longer periods of time in order that he may adjust to its demands." "When do the children leave here?" Brant asked. "The program of the Playground is arranged to accommodate children until they reach the age of eighteen," Rodson answered curtly. "What generally becomes of the children then?" Lisa asked. "Most of them become ordinary citizens. The best of the male group are trained as Watchers. The females usually join a breeder group. It is only the elect, with the highest qualifications, that can fill either of these positions." "Who are those men and women out there with the children?" Brant asked, staring out into the crowded Playground. "They are some of the older ones who work with the children. Those young men are joining the Watchers when they finish here." Brant, Lisa, and Rodson watched as one of the leaders called sharply to a curly headed boy who had been playing with a pretty raven haired girl. The boy leaped to his feet at the sound of his name and raced to where the athletic young man stood. The man pointed to a group of two boys and a girl who were engaged in a tussle on the ground before him. Brant and Lisa repressed their surprise as the boy quickly leaped into the melee and, by virtue of his superior strength and size, beat the two boys and the girl until they fled before his brutal blows. The boy stared after them a moment and then returned to the man whose directions he had followed. Rodson laughed a short harsh laugh as the man slapped the boy's face and sent him sprawling in the dust. "These children must learn to be constantly on guard. The stronger the person, the better chance he has for survival," Rodson explained. "It's a rather hard way to learn, isn't it?" Lisa asked. Rodson stared icily at her for a moment before he answered. "Lessons learned the hard way are longest remembered," he said. As Brant listened to Rodson talkabout the Playground, the children, at shouted commands from their instructors, assembled in a rank and file in the center of the Playground. "Listen!" Rodson ordered. One of the briefly clad young women raised her arm. Music resembling a primitive rhythmical chant filled the air. The children sang as Brant and Lisa listened. We have fun. We have sun. We can fight. We are right. The Council leads us. The Council feeds us. Days of pleasure. Full of treasure. We are free! We are free! As the song ended the children were dismissed by a wave of the song leader's hand, and they raced wildly to the bright red barracks surrounding the Playground. Several of the younger children were knocked to the ground in the stampede, but they immediately scrambled to their feet and joined the racing mob again. Brant thanked Kirk Rodson and walked with him to the door where they parted. The Watcher led them down the silent hall and they were soon out on the street again. "We have nothing to worry about if we train the kids that well," Lisa remarked. "It's kind of hard on them at first, I guess," Brant observed. "They get used to it though. And anyway, we need strong people for Dreamtown with some of those crazy Rebels still running around loose," Lisa said. "We don't have to worry about them. After seeing those kids today, I don't think we have to worry about anything," Brant said as they walked down the street away from the Playground. Professor Corbett, in response to a knock, opened the door of the cabin to which he had moved after the Watcher's attack on his farmhouse and greeted the man who stood outside. "Jim. How are you?" the Professor asked as he motioned the young man to a chair. "I passed your old place on my way here. Professor. It's a good thing you got out of there. The Watchers must have come back because the place has been burned to the ground." "We figured they'd be back once they knew our location. This cabin is in bad shape but we were lucky to find it. And it's isolated. Be hard to find, here in the middle of the woods. But now tell me Jim, what progress has been made?" "We've gotten a lot done in two weeks, Professor. I've just come from Andy. He and his people have moved up to the summit of Thorny Mountain. Joe and Ed have been in Dreamtown for almost the whole two weeks and are working as laborers on the housing project in the West End. Bill got himself a job as a messenger for the video control office and Mike is working in the mess hall at the central headquarters of the Watchers." "Fine, fine. That's wonderful," Professor Corbett exclaimed happily. He hesitated a moment. "Mike," Jim said, "overheard one of the Watchers telling about the raid on your place. He said they've got Nancy in one of the Detention Plants near the Watcher's headquarters." "Is -- is she all right, Jim? Could you find out if she's all right?" the Professor asked hurriedly. "As far as we can tell, she's OK. They're holding her for questioning. They'll probably try to find out as much as they can about our plans before they -- I mean -- Jim hesitated, embarrassed. "I know, Jim. Wait a minute. I'll call Dan. He's upstairs taking a nap. He worked almost all night on the plans for the raid." Professor Corbett called up the steps to Dan, and within a few minutes he appeared, rubbing the sleep from his eyes. "Jim," Dan said, "have they found Nancy? Is she all right?" "She's being held for questioning, Dan," Jim replied. Dan turned to Professor Corbett. "Alan, that means we've got to act fast. What's the report from the others?" Jim outlined the progress that had been made since the night of the raid on the farmhouse. Together with Professor Corbett, they went over the details of the new outposts of the Rebel groups. They counted up the number of weapons possessed by each individual group, and checked and rechecked the positions that each group and each individual was to hold on the day of the raid. Jim told Dan of the positions that the four volunteers had obtained within Dreamtown, and Dan wrote out detailed instructions for them to follow on the day of the raid. "Get these instructions to Mike and the others within four days," Dan ordered. "Wednesday of next week." "This whole thing," Professor Corbett said, "depends on our ability to coordinate our actions. If there is one slip anywhere along the line the whole thing will fall to pieces. Jim, you and the other runners have an important job on your hands. You've got to get this information to all the outposts and to the four men in the city by Monday. That will give everyone a day to prepare before Wednesday." Jim took the sheets of paper from Dan, folded them, and placed them in the inside pocket of his jacket. "What are your plans for getting Nancy out." Jim asked. Dan answered him. "In Mike's instructions, I explained that he was to open the Detention Plant and release Nancy and any of our other people that might be there. He'll tell them what they're to do. If he hears of anything happening before that time, we've got to depend on Mike to be able to save her." "But if -- Jim began. Professor Corbett held up his hand. "We cannot afford to jeopardize the whole plan for anyone's sake." He looked down at the floor. "Not even for the sake of my daughter." Dan placed his hand on the Professor's shoulder. "Nancy wouldn't want it any other way, Alan," he said. "Mike will have to handle any emergency that arises. He's a good man and we can depend on him," Dan added. "With the Playground Festival taking place next Wednesday it should be easier for us to get control of the city. The Council has sent word that every adult must attend the ceremonies. We'll have them all in one place and they'll be easy to control." "I'll get going," Jim said. "Got to be in a lot of places between now and Monday." He stood up and the three men shook hands solemnly"Good luck, Jim," Professor Corbett said. Jim laughed. "See you in Dreamtown, Professor!" showed their official cards to the Watcher behind the desk. Gil's civilian investigative status gained him immediate entrance, but there was some discussion concerning Brant's right to attend. The matter was finally cleared up to the Watcher's satisfaction when Brant explained that Benton of the Sensory Com Center had arranged for him to attend. The two men were ushered into a large chamber, at one end of which was an enormous metal desk almost the width of the room. Eight men were seated behind it. Brant recognized the leader of the Watchers and several other officials of the city. He and Gil took seats to one side of the room near the desk. "They're going to reexamine some of the Rebels that have been captured recently," Gil said. "Should be amusing." Brant nodded. At a signal, a Watcher opened a door at one side of the room. A young girl and a man and woman, were led into the room. They were led to a spot to stand directly in front of the examiners. "You are Rebels. Is that true?" barked the leader of the Watchers, who was conducting the examination. None of the three answered. "You have been planning to destroy the city of Dream town?" the man asked. Again no one protested. He looked up. "You deny these charges?" He paused and then directed his attention to the girl before him. "Your name!" "Nancy Corbett," the girl said. "Perhaps you will tell us why your people are being so foolish." Nancy smiled at the man, and spoke quietly. "We don't believe we are being foolish." The man laughed aloud and the others joined him. Brant turned to Gil. "She's not bad looking." "Do your Rebels really believe you can destroy us?" "We don't want to destroy you," Nancy replied. "We have no intentions of doing that. We believe you are making many mistakes here in Dreamtown and we believe things must be changed," she said. "And how do you intend to do that?" Nancy didn't answer. The man stood up quickly and leaned across the desk. "Then you admit you are trying to destroy the way of life we have built up here," he shouted. "No!" the man next to Nancy answered suddenly. "We've told you. We feel it is wrong and must be changed." "We want things back the way they were before you came," the woman said. "What do you mean?" the man roared again. "We want to read books and we want to hear the old music again. We want to raise our children the way they should be raised." "When we win we are going to rebuild the schools," Nancy said quickly. "Silence!" the man thundered. A man at the end of the desk rose. "Didn't you always have enough to eat when you lived in Dreamtown?" he asked. Again no one answered. "Didn't you have enough to do for entertainment?" He looked from face to face before him. "Didn't you enjoy yourselves here?" he asked. Nancy stepped forward. "That's just it! Here all we were able to do, all we were allowed to do, was enjoy ourselves. But only in your ways. Some of us felt there were better ways to enjoy ourselves than with parties and festivals and sensation pills." "What ways?" the man asked quietly. The man next to Nancy spoke. "We wanted time to think. Some of us wanted to paint or write books." "We wanted to be with our children," the woman said. "Surely you realize by now," the man continued from behind the desk, "how insignificant these things are in comparison to the progress we've made in Dreamtown. Paintings done by hand cannot equal our paintings that are done mechanically. And as for books. One must be alone to read books and we believe that people should be together and share with one another." "That's just it," Nancy said. "Reading a book is sharing something! You share an experience with the man who wrote the book. You tell people about it, they read it, you discuss it. That's sharing." Another man at the desk spoke. "You talk of experience. With our sensation pills you gain much greater and more vivid experience than you ever could from a book." "But it's not real that way," Nancy said softly. "It's not natural either." The leader of the Watchers resumed the examination, which consisted of the same questions and the same accusations repeated over and over again. The three Rebels stood awaiting whatever it was that to be done to them, helpless to answer the charges, since there seemed to be no way for them to make themselves understood. "What will they do with them?" Brant asked. "Psychwash them probably. It's simple and there's never any trouble afterward." Gil answered. The leader stood up and addressed the three individuals before him. "We have decided that you are to be sent to the psych laboratories!" The Rebel woman instinctively raised her hand to her mouth in fear. Nancy and the other man stiffened but their glances remained steady. "We will give you a day to think about what is to happen to you. If, in that time, you decide to come to us with information concerning your Rebel groups -- their whereabouts, their plans and so on, you may do so. Otherwise our plans for you will be carried out!" He sat down. "Let me remind you that the fate of those who have been psychwashed is not very pleasant. They no longer think. They move when they are told to move. They do only what they are told to do. They don't read books and they don't paint pictures. They -- ." "They are not very different from the rest of the people in Dreamtown, are they?" Nancy interrupted. "Take them out of here!" the man screamed. Nancy's remark created angry excitement among the examiners and as they discussed it among themselves Brant and Gil watched the three people being led swiftly from the room. T he city lay like a eat carnival ground in the wilderness, illuminating the dark night. Dan and Professor Corbett lay on the ground, hidden behind the scrubby growth of bushes a few hundred yards from the wall of the city. Dan looked at his watch and the luminous dial told him it was ten o'clock. The raid was scheduled for # : # . "I think we got all the patrols, Alan," Dan whispered, "but I warned the men to be careful anyway. We didn't have enough guns for everybody, but once we're in the city we can get them from the Watchers and from their arsenal." Professor Corbett leaned toward Dan. "Let's go over the plan once more," he said. Dan shifted his position. "We have thirty people down at the West End gate. They're coming in three minutes after we start. Bill and Ed will open this gate and at the same time Joe will dynamite the drug warehouses." "Three of our men," the Professor said, "will head for the South gate as soon as we're in, and three others will open the East gate. If the surprise is great enough, they shouldn't have too hard a time overcoming the Watchers at the gates. They'll be too confused to know what hit them." "Mike," Dan said, "will barricade the Watcher's barracks at # : # , and then wait until he is joined by the group from the West. That will only take a few minutes and, once there, the group will split. Part will keep the Watcher's under control and the rest will invade the Detention Plant." "Mike can pass out guns from the Watcher's arsenal to our people in the Plant and direct them to the Playground. I'll head for the Playground as soon as we're in," the Professor continued, "and we'll take over there." "You'll have the most men, Alan," Dan said. "I'm taking eight men and heading for the Council Building. We'll grab the Council and bring them to the Playground. Check, Alan?" "Check!" "It's #:#. Pass the word along to watch for the first sign of the gates opening," Dan directed. Silence fell as each man in Dan's group waited while the remaining minutes passed. Every eye was fixed on the city gates. #:#. #:#. "Let's go!" Dan yelled at the top of his voice and leaped to his feet. The gigantic gates began to swing outward as the forty five men in Dan's group sprang to their feet and raced, shouting, toward the opening gate. "This way!" a voice called shrilly. "It's Ed!" Dan called to Professor Corbett who was running by his side. They reached Ed as the rest of the group entered the gate. Shots were being exchanged between the Rebels and the Watchers now. "Where's Bill?" Dan yelled above the noise. "They shot him," Ed answered. "Come on!" Suddenly, a series of terrific explosions filled the night with screaming sound. The earth shook under their feet. "The warehouses are gone!" Dan yelled. "I'm heading for the Council!" The eight men Dan had selected raced after him down the empty street of the city. The sound of firing, announcing the entry of the group at the East gate, met their ears. As Dan's men careened around a corner they saw two Watchers sprinting toward them. One of the Rebels dropped to his knee, fired twice, and the two Watchers froze, in the typical macabre positions produced by a hypno-ray gun. The group parted and made separate approaches to the Council Building. Dan and four others stopped as they came in sight of the building. A group of Watchers stood, guns ready, peering up and down the deserted street. "Let's go!" Dan yelled, and the Rebels sprang forward, dodging in and out of doorways for protection. The other Rebels appeared at the opposite end of the street. The Watchers, seeing themselves outnumbered, suddenly turned and fled up the steps of the Council Building. "Stop!" Dan shouted. He fired a warning shot and the fleeing Watchers halted. "They'll serve as shields," Dan muttered. "No telling what we'll run into inside." The Rebels moved forward, with the Watchers preceding them at gunpoint. Inside, the hall was silent and they walked cautiously, alert for any sudden action. "Don't turn around," Dan ordered the men in front of him. "Lead us to the quarters of the Council." The tense group continued through halls and rooms resplendently furnished and decorated. They stopped several yards from a steel door which faced them across a high ceilinged room. "Go on!" Dan ordered. "That's the Council's private apartment," one of the Watchers snapped. "Open it!" "No one's ever opened it. No one's ever been inside," the man answered. Dan turned to one of his men. "Try to open that door, but be ready for anything!" After some minutes, the man turned back to the group. "There doesn't seem to be any way to get it open, Dan," the man said. "Then we'll blast it open!" But it was soon evident that their blasts had no effect on the massive structure. One of the Watchers sneered, when suddenly, without warning, the door slid aside into the wall. "Keep an eye on them," Dan cautioned his men. He moved cautiously as he neared the open door. There was no sound from within and so far as he could tell the room was empty. He stepped inside. "Good evening!" a voice greeted him. Dan started, and his eyes quickly searched the room for the source of the voice that had delivered this unusual greeting. "Over here," the voice said. A grotesquely fat man wearing a red robe, heavy with gold brocade rose from a reclining chair and smiled at Dan. "We've just -- ," Dan began but the fat man interrupted him. "I know! I've been expecting you for some time now. Have some grapes?" the man asked, indicating a bronze container on the table. "Or some wine?" he asked, proferring a silver decanter that stood beside the bronze dish of grapes. "Where are the other members of the Council?" Dan demanded. The man repressed a laugh. "There are no other members!" "You mean you -- !" Dan stopped in utter amazement as the truth began to become clear to him. "Yes," the man replied calmly. "But I don't understand. How did you do it?" "Very simply. Are you sure you won't have some wine?" The man poured himself a goblet of wine. "When Dreamtown began to become what it is today, I saw a perfect opportunity to cash in, so to speak, on a good thing. The details aren't important. I started small, and after I had sufficient power, I set up this legend of the Council. It was a simple thing to dispose of the few who knew the truth. Once that was done, the secret was easy to keep. I am self sufficient here. There has been no need to leave my apartments or my gardens. I send my directives, my orders, my requests, through the transitab or over the intercom. Food is left in an anteroom adjoining my chambers. Hardly anyone ever questioned me except in the beginning, and then there were always the Watchers, so the questioning soon stopped. Now, is there anything else you would like to know?" Dan turned and called to the others and they entered, their guns still trained on the Watchers. Dan explained what he had heard as they all listened in amazement. "I don't believe it! It's a trick!" one of the Watchers blurted out. The little man chuckled. "My boy, the trick is over. He told you the truth." "We're leaving now, and we're taking you with us to the Playground," Dan said. "My wine first," the man said and raised the goblet to his lips. "Yes, it's all over," he said softly and drained the goblet. Instantly the man's body went limp and he slumped to the floor before the shocked eyes of the others in the room. Dan rushed forward and examined the inert form on the floor. "He's dead! We'll have to leave him here. Lock the Watchers in that closet and let's go. We've got to get to the Playground." They raced down the steps of the Council Building and headed toward the Playground. Occasionally they met a citizen of Dreamtown who fled before them in fear or merely stared in stupefied amazement. The Playground gates were open and there were Rebels surrounding its walls, their guns trained on captured groups of Watchers who stood sullenly, staring for the most part, at the ground. A cheer went up from the Rebels as they saw Dan and the others approaching. The courtyard of the Playground was dotted with Rebels guarding the great crowd that filled the stands which had been erected for the Festival. In the center of the courtyard was a platform on which stood Professor Corbett and some of the Other Rebels. Dan yelled in delight as he recognized Nancy standing beside her father. In a great bound he was on the platform and Nancy was in his arms. When he released her, he spoke quietly to Professor Corbett. "Everything all right?" he asked. "Yes. We lost some men, but everything went according to plan." Dan turned to the shouting, fearful crowd before him in the stands. He raised his gun and fired three successive shots into the night air. The crowd quieted. "We intend no harm," Dan began, "most of you have heard of us. They called us Rebels. We were. We once lived in Dreamtown. After the Big War we tried to build a new civilization, one founded in truth and dignity. At that time we all wanted the same thing. Then some people came and offered us toys instead of truth. Many of us took the toys. After the horrors of the Big War we wanted peace and contentment and pleasure. But we made a terrible mistake. We took these toys hoping they would give us the thing we looked for, and as years went by we forgot what we had set out to do. But some of us didn't forget. Some of us remembered. And we fled from Dreamtown, because the Council and the Watchers told us we were wrong to want those things. The Council no longer exists. There isn't time to explain it all to you now. You will be informed quickly and completely as soon as we are able to arrange it. One more thing. We do not come as conquerors, but as friends. We came back because we believed in Dreamtown, and wanted ( Continued on page #) Illustrated by Leo Summers The Moon is green cheese and the stars are eyes and we're all fleas on a big space animal! But don't let it worry you -- unless you take the first trip out into space -- all alone!. know he was up so high and going so fast, going higher and faster than any human before him. He would be up even higher the next day, he remembered, going so high and so fast he would not come down again. It would be a shame to leave Earth, he knew. There was security in her firmness, with no great space underfoot through which to drop down, down, down. Up here there was emptiness all around. Emptiness and, except for the dull throb of the rocket engines, silence. Out there -- he looked up -- there would be a greater emptiness, a greater silence, an infinity of nothingness in all directions. He felt suddenly cold at the thought, and then shame swept over him, forcing the paralysis aside. Fear of the unknown again, he thought distastefully. No matter how much the psychologists tried, they could not erase that icy prickling sensation that came with its contemplation. They were all children when it came to space, kids frightened by the dark alleys of the universe, fearing the bogey man that waited lurking in the velvet depths through which no one had passed before. Probably they would find nothing out there to fear, nothing at all, and yet the feeling would go on and on, whenever men had to face the unknown, whenever they had to force themselves whistling past silent graveyards that contained only the fear of fear. With swift precision he pressed studs on the control panel before him, and a bank of jets on the side of his rocket flared into sudden life, pushing, turning, pulsing flame into the thin air of the outside. His gyrochair made an effortless compensation for the altered direction. The ship banked, leveled, then leaped forward on a new course. Cantrell smiled. He could handle the ship now as though it were a part of him. On the big leap he expected no trouble. Not so the planners, who refused to leave the minutest stone unturned in their search for flaws in man or rocket. Physical checkups were made as often as twice a day. Psychiatrists had analyzed him constantly during the past six months, probing for any hidden factors that might make a space flight futile, fearing perhaps a mental return to the womb for a security that could not be found in untraveled space. We're all children when it comes to space, he reminded himself, and he laughed and wondered half-seriously if he were really as psychologically free as he thought he was -- excepting his animal allergy of course, which was insignificant. There were many facets of the human mind the clinical instruments of psychology could never hope to touch; the mind was like an iceberg, and the submerged ninetenths could hold a great many unfathomables hidden in the vast depths, subtle monstrosities waiting to spring out and claw at his sanity. He smiled grimly, as he realized where his thoughts were leading him. To fear of the unknown again. Of course, it was only the intellectual contemplation of it, but the mere thought disturbed him, and he began to feel angry at himself for allowing the thoughts to exist at all. Irritably he jabbed at the controls and felt the reassuring thrusts that drove him gently into the heavy-padded cushions of the seat. With a smile, this time of satisfaction, he watched the speedometer needle rise to a new height. Below him, Earth was an unfamiliar blur, and he touched off the braking rockets to look at it. The landscape took on more familiar features, with its surface pockmarked by the ravages of wind and rain, its broad fields stretching out in all directions like the fur on some great animal. He failed to suppress a shudder of disgust at that last thought. He'd be glad to get off Earth, onto the moon where he would be alone for awhile and away from the unpleasantnesses of ordinary life. These past months, with Jarvis and his dogs, the psychiatrist's incessant questioning -- The radio said into his ears: "Okay, Cantrell, that's enough of a workout. Bring her in and report to HQ. Colonel Enders wants a word with you." "Right," Cantrell said into a microphone. He switched off the radio and muttered : "Damn Colonel Enders. What's he want this time, to check the nipples on my beer bottles?" Angrily, he flipped the rocket into a soundless dive that reached screaming proportions as he entered heavier atmosphere. The outer metal glowed, and the temperature rose in the controlroom. He twisted the rocket onto a tail of flame and settled, "And that's that -- until tomorrow," he told himself. He threw switches to inactivate the motors and looked out an observation window. A fast-moving jeep curved across the stretch of sand towards him. Behind the jeep a dog came running; at the sight of the animal, Cantrell felt nausea tug at him. He reached for the radio. He said into it, "Control? Get that damned dog off the field." "Sorry," Control said, "I'll contact the jeep. One of Captain Jarvis' dogs got loose, and -- " "I'm not interested in your excuses," Cantrell said angrily, "and I don't care if it does belong to Captain Jarvis. Get it off the field, or I'll blast it off!" Irritably, he cut communications. He looked out the window. The jeep had stopped, and someone had gotten out and was walking back to collar the dog and return it. The jeep started up again. Cantrell breathed a sigh of relief. He felt annoyed with himself, as he always did when something like this happened, but the self-condemnation failed to placate him. Damn it! Jarvis was a psychiatrist; the man knew how these things affected him. To make matters worse, it was Jarvis' dog. Probably trying another of his "experiments", Cantrell thought disgustedly. He crawled out of the airlock and down the long metal stairs to the ground. The jeep pulled up, and the khaki-clad driver said, "Sorry about the dog, sir, but -- " "Skip it," Cantrell snapped, climbing into the jeep. "Just take me to HQ." The soldier nodded and spun the jeep around. They went flashing toward a fat clump of buildings that squatted alone at the edge of the landing field. As Cantrell had expected. Captain Jarvis was with Colonel Enders in the latter's office. "What was the idea of sending out that mongrel," Cantrell flared. "You know I'm allergic to animals." "It was an accident. Besides, you're not allergic to anything," the psychiatrist said calmly, ignoring the insult to his pet. "You're rationalizing a pathological fear -- " "Now, see here -- " Captain Jarvis held up a placating hand " -- or hatred, if you wish, of animals." "Okay, okay, I don't like animals," Cantrell said. "We've been over that a dozen times. So what? I suppose you still think it has some bearing on my going to the moon and back?" The psychiatrist shrugged. "Who knows? It might have." Colonel Enders said, "I'm beginning to agree with Cantrell, Captain. We're not going to find anyone perfect, it seems, so we may as well take those with the best qualifications. Cantrell certainly isn't going to encounter animals in space, and there's no life on the moon; our foremost scientists assure us of that." "But can you be sure," the psychiatrist wondered, "can they be sure, can anybody be sure? Scientists don't have all the right answers about our Earth, much less the other planets; we know as much about Earth as a flea knows about the dog or the cat he's on." Cantrell grimaced at the analogy. "That's why we're going up, to find a few answers. Anyway, tomorrow I'll be on my way because I've got the qualifications for it, animals or no animals. And if the moon has creatures on it that resemble dogs or cats or even fleas. I'll be mighty surprised. How about you. Colonel?" "Don't drag me into your arguments, Cantrell," the Colonel sighed. "I'm a military man, not a scientist. Both the Earth and the moon may be green cheese for all I know. The main thing I'm interested in is that you get up there and back safely." "I will," Cantrell promised. "I hope you do," Captain Jarvis said earnestly. "I'm not trying to heap obstacles in your path, Cantrell. It's just that we know so little about anything that even an 'allergy' like yours might be a hazard. Suppose up there, for example, it suddenly took on cockeyed proportions and went to lesser animals; suppose a fly accidentally got aboard the rocket, you might even open a hatch to get away from it -- and forget to put on your spacesuit." "Thank the fates I'm not a military man, Jarvis, and can speak freely," Cantrell said dryly. "You already know I don't like you, and I'm beginning to like you even less." "Come, come," Colonel Evans said hastily, "there's no point in arguing. We can't get perfection. I'm afraid. Cantrell here's the closest to our qualifications we could get, physically and psychologically, consistent with the right background for the job. Tomorrow at noon the rocket's going to take ofT with Cantrell aboard, and then we'll know." "Yes," the psychiatrist said steadily, "and then we'll know." Cantrell turned to Colonel Evans. "Will that be all, Colonel?" Evans glanced hastily at Jarvis and nodded. "That's it, I guess -- until tomorrow at noon." "Right," Cantrell said. "See you." And he went out. Once outside in the warm afternoon sun he mentally damned Jarvis and Evans, classifying them both as incompetents who drew military salary for putting red-taped impediments in the way of progress; the rocket should have taken off months ago. He shrugged, trying to content himself with the thought that tomorrow he'd be away from them, away floating in the pure emptiness of space. Even so, the mere thought of Jarvis irritated him, made his fingers itch for the man's throat; him and his talk of animal fears! Okay, so he hated animals, well he had good reason to. Ever since that dog had attacked him when he was a child, he'd hated dogs; and then the hatred spread to other animals -- why not, for they all were potentially dangerous -- and sometimes it even made him sick to think of them. It made sense when you stopped to consider it carefully. He'd moved to the city, to the great steel canyons that imprisoned only specimens of humanity, and for years never saw an animal. Now, he was in the open again, in the great desert and the plains. But Acre were no animals, only the dogs Captain Jarvis insisted on keeping. "Nuts to Captain Jarvis," he said. The next morning he felt the same way. He was called into HQ for last minute instructions that were the same as those laid out months ago. Cantrell knew them by memory, but the excitement of the impending blastoff prevented his being bored or even from being annoyed by the psychiatrist's inevitable presence. Now there was nothing to prevent the leap of the Earthbound into space; not even Jarvis could delay it now. The jeep drove Jarvis, Evans and Cantrell to the waiting rocket. They got out. Evans offered his hand. "Goodbye, Cantrell, come back in one piece." "Sorry I was so hard on you, Cantrell," Jarvis said, extending his hand. "I hope you make it okay." Cantrell nodded and took the man's hand. "Thanks. I expect to." He climbed the ladder to the airlock door and stood there for a moment watching the jeep carry its passengers across the field to a safe distance. Then he went inside and strapped himself into the seat. "Okay, Cantrell," Control said. "Blast off when ready." "Right," Cantrell said into the radio. He closed the airlock door and checked pressure gauges. "In ten seconds," he said, activating the firing mechanism. Mentally he counted: ten, nine, eight, seven... The rocket shuddered, and Cantrell found himself pressed suddenly into the seat. In the viewscreens Earth spun dizzily away from him. After a few minutes the push ceased and weightlessness began. "Everything okay, Cantrell?" the radio said, after awhile. It was Evans. "Fine, Colonel," Cantrell said. "Not a dog or a cat in sight." "Can you see Earth?" Cantrell manipulated dials, activating the lower television eyes. "There she is," he said. "Looks real impressive. I can see nearly all of North America now and a good part of the Pacific. The land looks queer from up here," -- he frowned -- "something like -- " He broke off, staring. "Like -- " "Like what?" Jarvis' voice demanded suddenly. "It looks like what, Cantrell?" Cantrell shook his head bewilderedly. "Nothing," he said uncertainly. He felt a sudden irritation that Jarvis couldn't let him alone even with so much of space intervening. "It looks like I'm going to make it to the moon, that's all." "You were going to say something else, Cantrell, what?" "Let him alone, Jarvis," Evans whispered; "he's got enough to worry about." "That's right," Cantrell said irritably, "and I'm going to worry about it in silence." He reached for the radio switch. "But, Cantrell -- " Evans said. Then the radio went dead. Cantrell grinned and watched Earth getting smaller below. The grin faded as he thought of his almost-spoken comparison of a few minutes before, of the land resembling the shriveled skin of an animal. Jarvis would have made much of that, of course, with his psychiatric ramblings. Yet, the comparison was disturbing just the same. Why did he torture himself? He regarded Earth skeptically, hoping to subdue the irrational thoughts. Certainly the shape was not that of an animal. At least not an Earth animal. But then it wouldn't have to be, he reminded himself -- and felt doubly irritated at the reminder. It looked very different from the globes he'd seen picturing the planet. It looked almost -- alive. From this height, great forests resembled tiny hairs, mountain ridges and canyons were skin blemishes and pores ; the great oceans looked like giant mouths, open and hungry. Cantrell laughed nervously. It was ridiculous. Yet the more he looked, the more Earth receded below him, the more the resemblances increased. He stared at the planet. It was ridiculous, but there were even several portions below that looked like great eyes staring at him. As he watched, one blinked. Cantrell screamed. The sound was shrill in the narrow control chamber. Then he cursed and felt ashamed. "I'm going crazy," he told himself. His voice was hoarse. "Jarvis was right." But the thought failed to help. The sudden feeling of terror was still with him, and he found himself trembling. It was only a cloud, he told himself, only a cloud passing over a section of land that from this distance looked like an eye. He tried to laugh away the fear, but the sound stuck in his throat. He felt his heart beating faster than it should. "No," he said desperately, looking away, "no, I'm okay. My mind is clear, and I'm all right. It's just being up here that gives a guy the jitters. Fear of the unknown. Things look different when you're not close to them. Got to calm down. Take it easy." His hands trembled. "Scientists don't have all the right answers even about our Earth here," Jarvis had said. "We know as much about Earth as a flea knows about the dog orithe cat he's on." The words echoed in Cantrell's memory, and he forced himself to look down at Earth. It was a planet, that was all, an inanimate mass and nothing more. "... as much as a flea knows..." But was it possible that a flea might not realize the animal he was on was an animal? He had a headache, and he shook his head in an effort to clear it. His vision blurred, refocussed with astounding clarity. Lines flowed together with sudden meaning. Before his gaze rivers became veins, eyes stared at him curiously, oceanmouths yawned. The truth burst upon him then, with a sudden flash that drove his blood coursing through his body, with a realization that jerked him as though he had been struck with a whip. He laughed insanely at the thought, and the laughter exploded in the narrow cabin and flowed over him in torrents, echoing. He was the only one in the world who could see things as they really were. He was as certain of that as he was of his own existence. He knew now, and his was the only knowledge: Earth was a space animal, the humans parasites like fleas on a cat or a dog. And the Earthlings didn't know, they didn't even suspect! The radio buzzed. He pressed a button. "Cantrell," Evans' harassed voice came. "This is an order: maintain contact at all times, until the moment you set foot back on Earth. Understand?" Cantrell laughed with his strange secret knowledge. "Fm not coming back," he said happily. He was the only one who could escape this animal, the only one, and he felt elated at this, felt a sense of power he'd not known. "Fm not going to be a parasite crawling on the back of an animal." The thought sickened him, and he gagged. "Cantrell!" It was Jarvis. "Cantrell, listen to me -- " "No," Cantrell said. "You listen to me." And he told them about Earth being a space-animal. His mind rebelled at the thought, but he forced himself on for he wanted Jarvis to suffer down there, he wanted them all to suffer with the knowledge of what they were. Where was their pompous self-importance now, their flea's dream of conquering the universe? "He's crazy," Evans whispered. "Cantrell, listen to me," Jarvis said. But Cantrell was staring in horrified fascination at Earth dwindling below, at the space-animal watching him. "No!" he cried. "No, it's too late." And he shut off the radio and ripped the wires from their moorings. Ahead of him lay the moon. He switched screens to look at it. It was chalky and pockmarked, like the skin of a diseased animal. Great iridescent veins glowed through its body. From a crater bed a great baleful eye regarded him. Cantrell screamed again and frantically pressed studs on the control panel. The rocket shot flame from its side tubes and turned in a short arc, swinging the moon from sight. The forward viewscreens showed the stars now, and beyond them an infinite blackness. "I'll be safe out there," Cantrell told himself. The rocket leaped forward. bitterly, putting down the radiophone with a gesture of helplessness. "Now, what do we do?" Jarvis shrugged. "Start over," he said. "What else is there to do? Find someone else to pilot another rocket." "Someone without Cantrell's hallucinations," Jarvis ammended. "And pray that they were hallucinations," Jarvis amended further. Evans looked at him sharply. "What do you mean?" Jarvis said calmly, "My favorite theme, Colonel -- simply that we don't know much about this blob of matter we're on. One factor disturbs me : while Cantrell was afraid of animals, he never imagined he saw them. Outside of his one idiosyncrasy, he was a very sound person. "What are you getting at?" Evans demanded irritably. "That it's unfortunate Cantrell had this animal fear; it's much too easy to blame that for what he saw. As a psychiatrist, I suppose I should say that's the reason for it; I might be right. But it has also occurred to me I might be rationalizing." He leaned forward, intensely serious. "Suppose, just suppose for a minute that maybe the ones who are wrong, that maybe we're really parasites on an alien organism, that maybe we're under a kind of mass auto-hypnosis to protect our pride, and that maybe space restores our sanity -- for awhile anyway, until another form of insanity takes over." "Anyone who supposed that would be crazy," Evans blurted. "Perhaps," Jarvis admitted, "but who's to tell? I wonder, does the flea know the true nature of the dog, or does he thing hes living on some kind of world built just for him?" Evans sputtered, searching for words. Finally he managed, "See here. Captain, this is nonsense, and I order you to stop such talk immediately." Jarvis sighed. "I hope so. Colonel, I really hope it is nonsense. Man is a proud animal; it's interesting to consider how such knowledge would affect him." He shrugged helplessly and turned to leave the room. "At any rate, the only way to find out is to send up another man in another rocket and hope he doesn't report the same thing; if he does, we'll just blame it on one of his psychological quirks, and try again. But for all we know about this universe. Earth might be a space-animal, a type of life so close to us and yet so alien we don't even recognize it -- or don't want to!" Colonel Evans wet his lips. "Do you -- do you really believe that, Captain?" Jarvis considered the question. "No," he said slowly. "No, I don't. But I do think it points up an important fact. When a man gets out there in space, cut off from everything he's ever known, allergies, idiosyncrasies, personal likes and dislikes -- everything on a conscious and a subconscious level may take on an exaggerated importance." "You make it a big problem," Evans said. "It is a big problem," Jarvis sighed. "At any rate. I'm going to volunteer for the next flight. That's the least I can do for Cantrell." He went out. The Colonel stared after him, puzzled and slightly indignant. He shook his head. The man was crazy. Earth an animal -- the idea was preposterous. But the thought hammered at him, repeating. Jarvis was right, of course, when he said it was undoubtedly psychological. And yet suppose -- just suppose... Trembling, he shook off the thought and looked out at the field, the buildings, the sky. Earth's pale satellite emerging from the sky like a child following in the wake of its mother. They say the moon came out of Earth, he thought suddenly, and the analogy struck home. The man in the moon looked down at him, and he turned hastily away. The afternoon was warm, but Colonel Evans suddenly felt very cold.    Compared with what we ought to be, we are only half awake. We are making use of only a small part of our mental and physical resources. -- Will James The jets got all the young ones in Smoky Creek. Only the old folks were left -- with their memories. And the jets -- friendly or hostile -- would never get them... fighters had appeared low over Bald Ridge, out of the east. Theyd curved up as one to clear Lawson's Hill, their stubby wings almost brushing the treetops, their hiss and thunder rolling back and forth between the valley walls like a giant's derision; they'd dipped into the valley proper, obviously informed that Smoky Greek, Tennessee (population #) had no anti-aircraft installations, and circled the town at about five hunderd feet. They circled and looked down -- broad slavic faces with curious expressions, seen through plexiglass, as if thinking: So this is an American small town. Then they took altitude and got to work. The first bomb was aimed at the big concrete railway bridge spanning the upper end of the valley; that was the main objective of the attack. The bomb exploded four hundred yards north of the bridge, at about six hundred feet altitude -- the ideal point from which to flatten Smoky Greek. Low altitude bombing can be tricky, of course, especially in mountain country. A-bombs were cheap though, turned out by the carload; not like # years before, when they were first developed. So it was likely the bombardier tripped a bomb over the town just for the hell of it. The next bomb got the bridge. The next tore up a quarter mile of track. The next tore up a quarter mile of road. That was the mission. The bomber circled, while the fighters strafed Smoky Greek for good measure; and then they roared away past Lawson's Hill, over Bald Ridge, into the east toward their invasion-coast base. Everybody died. The bombs were midget A's, designed for tactical use; so Smoky Greek wasn't reduced to dust -- just to sticks. There wasn't much heat from the bomb and there was hardly any residual radiation. But everybody in town died. Concussion. Smoky Creek had been comprised of one main street and three cross streets, and that's not much area -- the wave had thumped down from right above, like a giant fist. Everybody died, except twentyone old men and women who had been off in the woods at the far end of the valley, on their annual Grandfolk's Picnic. They didn't die, except inside. Three months later, an enemy jet came out of the sky and over the valley. A scoop arrangement under its belly was sniffing Tennessee and Alabama air for radioactive particles. It sniffed low over the town, and then again -- a ruined town might hide an underground lab and converter -- and then it barrelrolled and crashed. Nine rifle bullets had hit the motor; straight back through the jet intake, into the blades. A year after that another jet came low over the town, and it crashed too. Only three bullets this time; but a jet motor's like a turbine -- you get a blade or two, and it goes crazy. Two years after that, Ben Bates (no longer Mayor Ben, because a mayor has to have a town; but still the man in charge) knocked off playing horseshoes in what had been the Town Hall. Now the building served as a recreation hall ; there were horseshoe pits at one end of the long room, there were tables for checkers and cards, and a short tenpin alley along one wall. Three years ago the alley had been twice as long as it was now; but then there were young men around who could peg the length of it without tiring every time. Overhead the roof sagged, and in one place you could see quite a piece of sky -- but under the hole the old men had rigged a slanted board watershed that led to a drainage ditch; and scattered through the room were a lot of supporting posts and timber braces. Actually the building was about as safe as it had ever been. There were other buildings like it; buildings that the bomb hadn't poimded flat or made too risky. They were propped up and nailed together and buttressed and practically glued so they'd stay up. From outside you'd think they were going to crumble any minute -- walls slanted all cockeyed, boards peeled off and hanging, and roofs buckling in. But they were safe. Fixed up every which way -- from the inside. All from the inside; not an inch of repair on the outside. It had to be that way, because the town had to look like a dead town. After the men had finished propping, the women had come along with all the furniture and things they'd salvaged, and they swept and scrubbed and did a hundred jobs the men never would have thought of; and so the old people ended up with half a dozen buildings to live in, secretly and comfortably, in the town that had to look dead. "Arthritis is bad," Ben Bates told his teammates and opponents. "Hell, I'm just giving away points. Maybe next week. I'll rest up, and kick you all around next week." He lit a cigar, a big grey man with long legs and a good-humored mouth, and he watched Dan Paray throw one short; then he strolled over to kibitz at the checker game between Fat Sam Hogan and Windy Harris, at one of the tables near the door. Late morning sunlight slanted in through the window by the table and struck light off Windy's glasses as he leaned across the board, thumped a checker three times and said triumphantly, "King me, Sam. You're getting blind, I swear. Or dumber." Behind his back Ben Bates heard a shoe ring against the stake; then he heard it spin off, and he grinned at Owen Urey's bullfrog cussing. Tom Pace was saying urgently, "Look -- look, Jim, damn it, you didn't no more shoot down that plane singlehanded than I did. We was all shooting. Godamighty -- where you get off claiming you bning it down?" Ben turned and sat down at the table next to the checker game, and stretched his legs in the sunlight. He raised thick brows like clumps of steel-wool at Tom and at old Jim Liddel, who sat in his pillowed armchair like a thin, scowling, bald, mansized spider. "You keep talking so high and mighty," Tom said, "we'll carry you out o' here and take you and dump you in the creek. You can tell the fish about who got the plane." "Still arguing over who planted the shot, huh," Ben grinned. "Regular feud, you two." "Well, hell, Ben," Tom said, and bit down on his gums so his whiskers almost hid the end of his nose. "I just get filled up on this old windbag hollering how he -- " "You go call me a windbag once more, Tom Pace," Jim Liddel said, and he stirred his all but helpless body in the armchair, "you're gonna have a sore eye, you seventy year old whippersnapper. I brung it down." "In a hog's behind, you brung it down. Mister Dan'l Boone!" "It 'us just after I let loose it started smoking," old Jim snarled, "and nobody else was shooting right then! You're gonna get a sore eye, I swear -- tobacco in it. I can spit to where you sit, and I can spit faster'n you can move, I bet, unless you're faster'n a fly, and you ain't. You just ask anybody who was there... it 'us just after I shot it started -- " Tom Pace thumped the table. " was there, you old... now, now, Jim, don't spit, for Godsake! Hold on. What I mean, I was there too. and maybe somebody's shot from a second or two before was what done the trick. Maybe even my shot! Takes a plane a while to know it's hurt, don't it? Ever think o' that?" "Maybe," Ben Bates said. "Maybe, maybe. And maybe. Let it go, you two. It ain't important who done it; we oughta just be grateful we got it." "Grateful I got it," Jim Liddel grunted. Tom Pace said, "Now, looky here, Jim -- " Ben Bates nudged Tom's leg under the table; and then slowly, fingering his jaw he said, "Well, now, Jim... I figure maybe you did, at that. Like you say, it smoked and crashed right after you shot, so I always kind o' figured it was you brought it down. But that's a hard thing to prove." Jim snorted. "Can't prove it! But I got it, all right. A man knows when he sunk a shot." "In a varmint, maybe," Tom Pace objected, "or a man. But you claiming to know where to hit a plane the worst?" "We was all shooting at the front, up where they put the motor," Jim said nastily. "Don't know about planes, but I know my aim. I got it square-on." "Well," Ben said, "why don't you just let it lay, eh, Tom? Jim's got a lot on his side." He looked sidewise at old Jim, and saw that Jim was still scowling at Tom. Old Jim was ninety eight, and some set in his notions. "Mm. Hell," Tom said reluctantly, after a second, "I ain't saying you didn't, Jim. That ain't my intent. I just get burned when you yell you did, like no man dared say you was wrong. Sure, maybe you're mit you might be wrong too?" Jim Liddel yelled, and from the checker table came Windy Harris's encouraging, "You tell 'em who got that plane, Jim!" Ben Bates scraped an inch of ash off his cigar against the tableedge, sighed and got up. He looked down at the glowering pair and said, "Well, come the next plane, if there is one, we'll shove a rifle in your hand, Jim, and see how good your eye is. You too, Tom. Till that time, reckon this is no place for a reasoning man." "Sit down, Ben Bates," old Jim snarled. "If you're a reasoning man, sit down. Be glad to talk to one, after Tom here goes away." "You go to hell. I ain't going no place," Tom said, and he picked up the cards and started shuffling them in his stiff hands. Ben sat down and stretched out his legs again. After a second, old Jim said wistfully, "You know, I wish I could still handle a rifle, Ben. Or do anything but sit. No way for a man to live, to have dead legs and dying arms." He shifted in his cushions. "You know, I reckon when I start to really die -- die all over -- I'm gonna get up out o' this chair. I'll stand up, somehow, even if it kills me faster. A man oughta fall when he dies, like a tree, so they know he stood up in his time. A man oughtn'ta die sitting down." "Sure, Jim," Ben said. "You're right about that." "Never had a sick day in my life, until they dropped that bomb. Why, I could outpitch and outchop and outshoot any of you whippersnappers, until they... Old Jim walloped the chair arm. "Damn, I made up for it, though! Didn't I? They put me in a chair, I sat in it and I got me an airyplane, and that's more'n they could do to me, by golly, they couldn't kill me!" "Sure, Jim," Ben said. "And when my time comes, I'll be up and out o' this chair. Man oughta fall and make a noise when he dies." "Sure, Jim," Ben said. "But that's a long ways off, ain't it?" Jim closed his eyes, and his face looked like a skull. "You squirts always think a man lives forever." F rom outside came the late morning sounds: the murmuring of Smoky Greek at the edge of town, under its cool tunnel of willows; the twittering of a flock of robins circling above; the constant soft rustle of the trees that crowded the green hills around. From the warehouse down by the tracks came the faint sounds of livestock -- and the voices of the men whose job it was to look after them this week : to feed them, turn them out into the big pens for an hour's sunlight, then drive them bajk into the warehouse again. Lucky the warehouse had stood the bomb -- it was perfect for the use. "Wonder how the war's going," Tom Pace said. He dropped some cards and bent painfully to retrieve them; his voice was muffled: "I just wonder how it's going, you than who today. "Maybe," Tom continued, coming up, "it's all over. Ain't seen no planes for couple years now. Maybe somebody won." Ben shrugged. "Who knows. Don't matter none to us. We're ready as we can be if another plane comes around. Other than that, it ain't our concern." "Darn tootin'," Tom said, and pushed the cards together and started shuffling again. Jim Liddel said, "War!" and looked like he'd bit into spoiled meat. "Never settled nothing... just makes the biggest dog top-dog for a while, so he can get his way. Man, I wish I could still lift a rifle, if an airyplane come around! I'd love to get me another one." He put his thin back against the cushions and pushed at the edge of the table with his hands. Jim's fingers didn't move so well any more ; some were curled and some were straight out, and the joints were different sizes, and now they were trembling a little. "Sometimes when I think o' Johnny and Helen and all the kids -- when I think o' that day, and those damn bombs, and that white tower o' smoke up over the town, I... oh, godamighty, I'd love to see another airyplane! I'd shout and yell and pray; I'd pray almighty God for you to get it!" Ben pulled on his cigar with stiff lips, and said slowly, "Well, we might, Jim. We just might. Two out o' seven ain't bad." He puffed out smoke. "We been running in luck, so far, what with nobody ever coming back loaded for bear. Reckon that means the other five didn't see us, low as they was; probably didn't even know they was being shot at." "They musta found bulletholes, though," Tom Pace said. "Afterwards. Not a chance we'd all miss -- " he bobbed his beard at old Jim -- " 'specially with Dan'l Boone here plugging away. They'd know they was shot at, all right. Might even find rifle bullets." "Maybe they did," Ben said. "Nobody ever come snooping back, though." "Wouldn't know where to, would they?" Windy Harris said. He and Fat Sam Hogan had stopped playing checkers, and had been listening. "Smoky Creek looks dead as Sodom. Buildings all down, and stuff knee-deep in the streets. Bridge down, and the road out. And the valley is way the hell out o' the way... no call for them to suspect it more'n anyplace else. Less, even. They'd likely figure somebody took a potshot from a hill... and there's a pack o' hills between here'n outside. "Looks like," Ben said. "We just got to keep it that way. We got a good plan: if the plane's up high, we just freeze under cover; if it comes down low a time or two, we figure we're likely spotted and start shooting. We shoot, and maybe it shoots too, and we pray." "It's a good plan," Jim Liddel said, looking out the window. "We got two." Windy Harris got up and stretched out his arms. "Two ain't enough old Jim said bitterly. "Well," Windy said, "I hope we keep on getting 'em -- them as sees us, anyway. Hope nobody ever knows we're here. It's peaceful here. Way off by ourselves, nothing to do but get up and go to bed, and do what we want in between." He sent tobacco juice into the cuspidor by the door. "Right now, me, I guess I'll go fishing down by the creek -- promised Maude I'd bring home a cat or two for supper. Anybody come along?" Tom Pace shook his head, and old Jim looked like he'd like to go, if he only could -- and Ben said, "Maybe I'll be down a little while later. Windy. Keep to the trees." Windy left, and Tom Pace shuffled the cards and looked over at Jim Liddel. "You going to play with Ben and me, you old windbag, or you going to keep bragging so loud a man can't stand your company?" "Why, you whippersnapper," Jim growled, "you just go ahead and run 'em. Reckon a reasoning man and a nitwit's about the best I can do right now." Tom dealt out two cards, and said, "War!" without dealing out the rest. He looked at Ben, his eyes cloudy. "Got a cigar, Ben?" Ben handed one over and held a match, and Tom got it going, puffing longer than he had to, like he didn't want to talk yet. Then he said, "It didn't have to happen." He worked the cigar over to the corner of his mouth and settled it in the nest of stained whiskers there. "None of it had to happen -- what happened here, and whatever happened outside the valley. It just didn't have to happen." " 'Course it didn't," Ben said. "Never has to. It just always does. Some people got reasons to let it happen, and some ain't got the sense not to." Fat Sam Hogan said, "I don't figure there's anything in the world a man can't sit down and talk out, instead o' reaching for a gun. Don't know why that oughtn'ta hold for countries." Ben Bates looked at one of the two cards Tom Pace had dealt -- his hole card. It was a four, and he lost interest. "Yup," he said, "it holds all right... they'll just both reach half the time anyway. One war on top of another. Even one right after this one, ten years or so, if this one's over. I just bet. Every country wants a piece out o' the next one's hide -- or his poke -- and they won't give an inch except in talk ; they won't really buckle down to stop a war. Never. Not if they can't get what they want by talk." He looked at the card again, just in case -- a four, sure enough. "Only time there's never a war is when everybody has what they want, or figure they can get it without killing somebody. But the second they see that's the only way, then it's war. War, war, war. It's a rotten cide who's right or wrong... damn little say about it. But I seen three-four wars now, and they don't look to stop soon, judging." He shook his head wonderingly. "Put half the money they spend on killing toward curing, instead, and helping them that wants, and finding out all about diseases and such... why, shucks, it'd be a brandnew world." "I seen five," Jim Liddel said. "I seen wars come and go. I fought in one. Afterwards, every time, they say everything's fine. The war to save this or that's over, and things are fine. Then somebody wants something somebody else has, and they're at it again, like two bulls trying to hump the same heifer. Bulls don't have enough sense to know there's enough cows to go around; but people ought. It's a big enough world." He worked those hands of his together until they were clasped, and he pushed them that way against the tableedge until the overgrown knuckles looked like chalk. "When I think o' that noise, and that cloud,... how we come running and screaming back here into all the dust and mess, and all them bodies... I... Ben, I..." "You lost heavy, Jim," Ben said. He let smoke out of his lungs, and it curled off into the broad beam of sunlight that came through the window, and it looked like the smoke that had shadowed a murdered town. "Heavy. You lost heavier'n any of us." "You can't count it," old Jim said, and the chalk was whiter. "We all lost the same; I just had more of it. Our kids and their kids -- and their kids... lost heavy? What can a man lose more'n his life?... And if you're as old as us, what's your life except the family you made out o' your own flesh? What else's a man got when he's eighty or a hundred?" Tom Pace said, "Ruth and Dave and their kids. I remember little Davey. He called me Tom Peach. I bought him a toy plane for his birthday. That was a couple days before the real planes come. I buried it with him... I think. I think it was him I put it with. It mighta been Joey... they looked alike." "A man ain't nothing, when he's as old as us," Jim Liddel said, his skull sockets closed, "except what he done. He ain't much any more, himself; he's mostly what he done with his life, whatever he done and left around that he can point to and say, 'I did that', that's all. And what's he got left if they take that away? We can't make it again. We made Smoky Greek; built it; wasn't a thing here that didn't come out o' us or ours. We made the valley, after God give it to us; wasn't a thing here we didn't let live or help live or make live. We made our families, and watched 'em fit into the town and the valley, like the valley fits into the world, and we watched 'em go on doing what we done before them: building and working and planting and raising families -- going on, like people got to go on. That's the way it was. That's what we had. Until they dropped the bomb and killed it -- killed all we done that made us men." Tears were squeezing out of the skull sockets, and Ben Bates caught Tom Pace's eye and looked away, out the window, at the green walls of the valley that was a coffin. "I just wish an airyplane would come around again," old Jim said. " -- just -- wish. You know, Ben?" Ben tried to talk and had to clear his throat; he put out his cigar in the ashtray, as if that was what was wrong with his throat, and said, "I know, Jim. Sure. And maybe you'll get your wish." He pushed back his chair and tried to grin, but it came out sour. "Maybe you will, you old fire-eater -- and what if one comes and we get spotted and it shoots us up or goes back and tells everybody we're here? That's one wish we don't want the good Lord to grant, ain't it? Ain't it, now?" Jim didn't say anything. Ben got up and said, " 'Bout noon. Guess I'll go home for a bite and then go down and fish with Windy." Jim said, thinly, "I meant, I wish one would come and we'd get it." "Well, maybe one will," Ben said, turning toward the door. "They built a slew o' them. And maybe we will, if it does." the Town Hall to listen carefully, his sharp old eyes half-shut. Behind him, at the far end of the room, somebody made a ringer, and Dave Mason said, "Nice, Owen," in his reedy voice. Ben listened and didn't hear what he was listening for. He stepped past the rifle that leaned beside the door and made his way to the end of the porch, walking close to the wall. The summer sun stood at noon, and the porch was in shadow; beyond, the street was a jumble of boards and broken glass, its canyon walls of leaning building-fronts and sagging porches, its caverns of empty windows and doorways shimmering in the heat. You couldn't see much dirt along the way; where the debris didn't come to your knees, it reached over your head. At the end of the porch Ben stopped and listened again; heard nothing. He stepped down and walked as fast as he could -- damn arthritis again -- to the porch of the next building. This had been Fat Sam Hogan's Hardware Store, and about all that was left of it was the porch; the rest was a twisted mess of wood that slumped away to the ground at the rear. The porch had been down too, right after the bombing -- but the old men, working at night, had raised it and braced it up. Something to walk under. A Springfield stood, oiled and waiting, against the wall. Ben paused and touched the barrel -- it was his own. Or rather it had once been his own ; now it was the town's, strictly speaking, to be used by whoever was nearest it when the time came. It was a good gun, a straight-shooter, one of the best -- which was why it was here instead of at his house. A man could get a better shot from here. He went on, hugging the wall. He passed a rifle wedged up between the fender and hood of Norm Henley's old Model A, and he remembered how the bomb had flipped the car right over on its top, and how the car must have protected Norm from the blast -- just a little. Enough so they found him two blocks up the street, in front of his mashed house, trailing blood from every hole in him, to get to his family before he died. Ben passed rifles leaned against walls and chairs on porches, rifles standing behind trees, leaned in the cracks between what buildings still stood to provide cracks, even old Jim's carbine lying under the ledge of the pump-trough in front of Mason's General Store. All of them in places where they were protected from rain or snow, but where they were easy to get at. He passed sixteen rifles -- walking, as everybody walked when they were out of doors, as close to the walls of the buildings as possible. When you had to cross open spaces you ran as fast as your seventy or eighty year old legs would take you -- and if you couldn't run, you walked real fast. And always you listened while you walked ; particularly you listened before you went out. For planes. So you wouldn't be spotted from the air. At the end of the porch of the last building on the street, Ben paused in the shade and looked out across the creek to where the first plane they'd shot down had crashed -- the one Jim claimed to have got by his lonesome. They'd buried what they found of the pilot, and cleared away every last bolt and nut and scrap of aluminum, but the long scar in the ground remained. Ben looked at it, all broken up by rocks and flowers and bushes the old people had transplanted so it wouldn't show from the air; and he looked at the cemetery a hundred feet beyond at which the scar pointed like an arrow -- the cemetery that wasn't a cemetery, because it didn't have headstones; just bodies. A town that was dead shouldn't have a lot of new graves -- the dead don't bury themselves. A pilot might see a hundred graves he hadn't seen before and wonder -- and strafe. So Ben looked at the flat ground where those hundred bodies lay, with only small rocks the size of a man's fist with names scratched on them to mark who lay beneath; and he thought of his daughter May, and Owen Urey's son George who'd married May, and their three kids, and he remembered burying them there; he remembered their faces. The blood from eyes, nose, ears, mouth -- his blood it was, part of it. Then Ben looked up. "We ain't looking for trouble," he said to the empty blue bowl of sky. "But if you do come, we're ready. Every day we're ready. If you stay up high, we'll hide. But if you come down low, we'll try to get you, you crazy murderers." yards farther on; he got there by sticking under the trees, walking quickly from one to the next, his ears cocked for the jetsound that would flatten him against a trunk. Way off to his left, across a long flat of sunflowers and goldenrod, he saw Windy Harris down on the creekbank, by the bridge. He yelled, "They biting?" -- and Windy's faint "Got two!" reminded him of all old Jim had said, and he shook his head. He left the trees and walked fast up his front path. His house was in pretty good shape. All four houses on the outskirts had come off standing -- his and Windy's and Jim's and Owen Urey's. They'd needed just a little bracing here and there, and they were fine -- except Owen's. Owen had stomped around in his, and listened to the sounds of it, and said he didn't trust it -- and sure enough, the first big storm it had gone down. Now Ben and his wife Susan lived downstairs in his house; Joe Kincaid and his wife Anna lived on the second floor; and Tom Pace lived in the attic, claiming that climbing the stairs was good for his innards. Anna Kincaid was sitting on the porch-swing, peeling potatoes. Ben said, "Afternoon, Anna," and saw her pale bright eyes flicker up at him, and that scared smile touched her mouth for just a second; then she hunched her shoulders and kept on with the potatoes, like he wasn't even there. Ben thought, It must be lonely to he that way -- and he attracted her attention again, his voice a little louder: "Hope you're feeling fine, Anna." Again the flicker of eyes. "Just fine, Ben, thanks," she said, almost in a whisper. "Peeling spuds." "I see." Her knife sped over a potato, removing a spiral of skin. She popped out an eye with a twist of the point. "Think Keith'll be back from the war today, Ben? It's been so long... I hate to think o' my boy fighting out there so long. Will they let him come home soon, Ben?" "They will, Anna. I think they will, real soon. Maybe tomorrow." "ITi they? "Sure." Keith Kincaid was under one of those fist-sized rocks, out in the cemetery that wasn't a cemetery -- next to his wife, June Hogan, and their four kids. But Anna Kincaid didn't know that. Since the bomb, Anna hadn't known much of anything except what the old people told her, and they told her only things that would make her as happy as she could be: that Keith was in the Army, and June was off with the kids having a nice time in Knoxville; and that they'd all be back home in a day or so. Anna never wondered about that "day or so" -- she didn't remember much from day to day. Joe Kincaid sometimes said that helped a little, as much as anything could. He could tell her the same nice things every day, and her eyes would light up all over again. He spent a lot of time with her, doing that. He was pretty good at it, too... Joe Kincaid had been Doctor Joe before the bomb. He still doctored some, when he could, but he was almost out of supplies; and what with his patients being so old, he mostly just prayed for them. In the kitchen, Susan had lunch ready and waiting -- some chicken from last night, green beans, boiled potatoes and a salad from the tiny gardens the women tended off in the weedy ground and around the bases of trees where they wouldn't be seen. On the way in Ben had noticed that the woodbox was about empty -- he'd have to bring home another bag of charcoal from the "general store" -- which was Windy's barn, all braced up. Into it the old people had taken every bit of clothing, canned food, hardware, anything at all they could use in the way of housekeeping and everyday living, and there it all stood; when somebody needed something, they went and took it. Only the canned foods and tobacco and liquor were rationed. Every week or so, around midnight. Fat Sam Hogan and Dan Paray went into the big cave in Lawson's Hill, right near where the second plane had crashed, and set up a lot of small fires, back where the light wouldn't be seen; they made charcoal, and when it cooled they brought it down to the "store," for cooking and such -- a charcoal fire doesn't give off much smoke. Over coffee, Ben said, "Reckon I'll fish some this afternoon, honey. How's a cat or two for supper sound?" "Why, goodness, Ben, not for tonight," Susan smiled. "You know tonight's the Social; me and Anna are fixing a big dinner -- steaks and all the trimmings." "Mm," Ben said, draining his cup. "Forgot today was Sunday." "We're going to have some music, and Owen Urey's going to read Shakespeare." Ben pursed his lips, tasting the coffee. It was rationed to two cups a day; he always took his with his lunch, and sometimes he'd have sold a leg to dive into a full pot. "Well... I might as well fish anyway; take in some fun. Fish'll keep till tomorrow, won't it?" "You can have it for breakfast." She sat down across the table and picked up the knitting she'd been on when Ben came home; he had a hunch it was something for his birthday, so he tried not to look interested; too early to tell what it was, anyway. "Ben," she said, "before you go -- the curtain pole in the bay window come down when I was fixing the blankets over it for tonight. The socket's loose. You better fix it before you go. You'll maybe get home after Anna and me want to light the lamps, and we can't do it till it's fixed." Ben said, "Sure, hon." He got the hammer and some nails from the toolbox and went into the parlor, and dragged the piano bench over in front of the bay window. The iron rod was leaning by the phonograph. He took it up with him on the chair and fitted the other end of it into the far socket, then fitted the near end into the loose socket, and drove nails around the base of the socket until the thing was solid as a rock. Then he got the blanket from the couch and hung it down double over the rod, and fitted the buttonholes sewn all along its edge over the nails driven around the window casing, and patted it here and there until not a speck of light would escape when the lamps were lit. He inspected the blankets draped over the other windows; they were all right. The parlor was pretty dark now, so he struck a match to the oil lamp on the mantle, just so Susan and Anna could see to set the table. When the others arrived, they'd light the other lamps; but not until; oil was precious. The only time anybody in town ever lit a lamp was on Social night: then the old people stayed up till around midnight for eats and entertainment; otherwise everybody got to bed at eight or so, and climbed out with the dawn. He went back into the kitchen and put away the hammer, and said, "My second cup still hot, honey?" She started to put down her knitting and get up, and he said, "Just asking," and pressed her shoulder till she sat again. He went around her and filled his cup at the stove. "Ben," she said, when he sat down again, "I wish you'd take a look at the phonograph too. Last time the turntable made an awful lot of noise... I wish it could sound better for tonight." "I know, honey," Ben sighed. "That motor's going. There ain't much I can do about it, though. It's too old. I'm scared to take it apart; might not get it back together right. When it really quits, then I guess I'll fool around and see what I can do. Heck, it didn't sound too bad." "It rattled during the soft parts of the music." Ben shook his head. "If I try, I might ruin it for good." He smiled a little. "It's like us, Suse -- too old to really fix up much; just got to keep cranking it, and let it go downhill at its own pace." Susan folded her knitting and got up. She came around the table, and he put an arm around her waist and pulled her into the chair beside him. "It'll go soon, won't it, Ben?" she said softly. "Then we won't have any music. It's a shame... we all like to listen so much. It's peaceful." "I know." He moved his arm up and squeezed her thin shoulders. She put her head on his shoulder, and her grey hair tickled his cheek ; he closed his eyes, and her hair was black and shining again, and he put his lips against it and thought he smelled a perfume they didn't even make any more. After a moment he said, "We got so much else, though, Suse... we got peaceful music you can't play on a machine. Real peace. A funny kind of peace. In a funnylooking town, this one -- a rag town. But it's ours, and it's quiet, and there's nothing to bother us -- and just pray God we can keep it that way. Outside, the war's going on someplace, probably. People fighting each other over God knows what -- if even He knows. Here, it's peaceful." She moved her head on his shoulder. "Ben -- will it ever come here, what's going on outside? Even the war, if it's still going on?" "Well, we were talking about that this morning down at the hall, Suse. I guess it won't. If rifles can stop it, it won't. If they see us from the air, we'll shoot at 'em; and if we get 'em we'll clean up the mess so if anybody comes looking for a missing plane, they won't give Smoky Creek a second look. That's the only way anything can come, honey -- if they see us from the air. Nobody's going to come hiking over these mountains. There's noplace they'd want to get to, and it's sure no country for fighting." "If the war is over, they'll likely be around to fix up the bridge and the road. Won't they?" "Maybe so. Sooner or later." "Oh, I hope they leave us alone." "Don't worry, hon." "Ben -- about the phonograph -- " "Suse..." He turned his head to look at her eyes. "It's good for longer'n we are. That motor. So's the bridge, the way it is, and the road... we'll be gone first. Before they get around to fix 'em. Before the phonograph gives out. What we want is going to last us -- and what we don't want will come too late to hurt us. Nothing's going to hurt our peace. I know that somehow. We got it, and it'll be like this for as long as we're here to enjoy it... I know "Ben -- " "If I want to go fishing," Ben said, and pressed her head against his shoulder again, "I go. If I want to relax with the men, I do it. If I want to just walk and breathe deep, I do it -- keeping to the trees, o' course. If I want to just be with you, I do it. It's quiet. It's real quiet in our rag town. It's a world for old people. It's just the way we want it, to live like we want to live. We got enough gardens and livestockj and all the canned stuff in the store, to last us for a... for as long as we got. And no worries. About who's fighting who over what. About who won. About how the international mess is getting worse again, and we better make more bombs for the next one. About who's winning here and losing there and running neck-andneck someplace else. We don't know any things like that, and we don't want to know. It don't matter none to us... we're too old, and we seen too much of it, and it's hurt us too bad, and we know it just don't matter at all." "Ben... I got to crying today. About May and George and the children. I was crying, and thinking about that day... "So did I think. None of us ever forgets for a minute. For a second." His lips thinned. "That's part of why we do what we do. Rest is, we just want to be left alone." They sat in silence for a moment, his arm around her shoulders, his other hand holding hers. Then he released her hand and thumped his own on the table, grinned at her and said, "Life goes on, now! Reckon I'll go down and get that cat -- or go walking -- or just go soak in some sun. What time are the folks showing up for -- " Jetsound slammed across the peaceful valley. B en got up and walked as fast as he could to the door, picked up the rifle leaning there, cocked it. Looking toward town he saw that Tom Pace had been on his way home, and the sound had caught him between trees. Tom hesitated, then turned and dived toward the tree he'd just left -- because a rifle was there, Ben saw men pour out of the doorways of the two habitable buildings on Main Street ; they stuck close to the walls, under the porches, and they picked up rifles. Motionless, hidden, in shadows, under trees, in doorways, behind knotholes, they waited. To see if the plane would buzz the town again. It did. It came down low over Main Street while the thunders of its first pass still echoed and rolled. Frightening birds out of trees, driving a hare frantically along the creekbank, blotting out the murmur of the creek and the tree-sounds, driving away peace. They saw the pilot peering through the plexiglass, down at the buildings... he was past the town in four winks ; but in two they knew that he was curious, and would probably come back for a third look. He circled wide off over the end of the valley, a vertical bank that brought a blinding flash of sunlight from one wing, and he came back. Ben leveled his rifle and centered the nose of the plane in his sights. For some reason -- probably because the valley walls crowded the town on both sides -- the planes always lined up with Main Street when they flew low over the town. The plane grew at startling speed in Ben's sights -- it loomed, and the oval jet intake was a growling mouth -- and he waited till it was about two seconds and a thousand feet from him; then he sent his bullet up into that mouth: a bullet aimed by a man who'd handled a rifle for sixty years, who could pop the head off a squirrel at a hundred feet. A running squirrel. That was the signal, Ben's shot. From under the tree Tom Pace's rifle spoke. The jet was past town then, and he wheeled to follow it with his eyes; its whining thunder lashed down and pressed his ears, lowering suddenly in pitch as it receded ; and though he couldn't hear them for the thunder, he knew that nineteen rifles had roared before it completed its turn, each aimed head-on at the plane. Aimed by men and women who could shoot with Ben, and even outshoot him. The plane coughed. Lurched. It had time to emit a fuzzy thread of black smoke before it nosed down and melted into the ground and became a long ugly smear of mounds and shreds and tatters of flame. The sounds of the crash died. Ben heard men shouting; loudest of all was old Jim Liddel's, "Got him... by God, I prayed, and we got him!" Behind him Susan was crying. Ben saw men and women head for the crash-site; immediately they'd start to carry away what debris wasn't too hot to handle. Then they'd wait, and as soon as anything was cool enough it would be carried off and hidden. And there'd be a burial tonight. Ben saw that some of the men had carried old Jim's chair out onto the porch of the Town Hall; and he saw that Jim was half-standing out of his cushions, propped up on his fists and still shouting; and Ben wondered if the Maker wasn't on the porch there with Jim, waiting for Jim to fall and make his noise. He turned away -- at seventy you don't want to see a man die -- and went inside and put his rifle on the kitchen table. He crossed to the cabinet under the sink to get his reamer and oiling rag. Every rifle was taken care of that way. Right now Tom Pace and Dan Paray were hurrying around gathering rifles to clean them, load them. No rifle must miss fire, or throw a bullet an inch off aim -- because that might be the rifle whose aim was right. "Lucky we got that one," he said. "I think he saw us, Suse... he come in low and sudden, and I think he saw us." "Was -- was it one of theirs, Ben... or one of ours?" "Don't know. I didn't even look. I can't tell 'em apart. Owen'll be around to tell me when they find out... but I reckon it was one of ours. If he saw us and didn't shoot, then I reckon it was one of ours. Like the last one." "Oh, Ben' Susan said. "Ben, ain't it against God?" Ben stood looking out the window over the sink ; watching a cloud of yellow dust settle over the wreckage of the plane, and a cloud of black smoke rising from the wreckage to darken the yellow. He knew some of the men would be passing buckets from the well, and spading dirt on the flames where they weren't too hot to get to. "That's the way it is," he said. "That's how we decided. God didn't stop the bomb dropping, Suse... for whatever reasons He had. It don't seem He'd deny us the right to shoot rifles, for the reasons we got. If we get turned away at the Gates, we'll know we was wrong. But I don't think so." Quiet was returning to the valley; the birds had already started singing again. You could hear the trees. From the direction of the creek came Windy Harris, running, and he broke the quiet with a shout as he saw Ben by the window: "Got it, huh, Ben?" "Sure did," Ben said, and Windy ran on. Ben looked toward the porch of the Town Hall. Old Jim had sunk back into his pillowed chair, and he was shaking his fist, and Ben could hear him yelling, "Got it... got it, we did!" Hell be around for a while yet, old Jim, Ben thought, and turned back to the table. He sat down and listened to the sounds of the valley, and his eyes were the eyes of the valley -- they'd seen a lot, and understood enough of it. "It don't matter whose it was," he said. "All of a cloth." He slid the reamer into the barrel of the rifle, and worked it. "The hell with the war. Even if it's over, the hell with it. With any war. Nothing's ever going to give us back what we lost. Let 'em stay away, all them that's to blame. Them and their planes and wars and bombs... they're crazy!" His lips curled as he worked the reamer. "Let 'em stay out o' what they left us for lives. Don't want to hear what they're doing, or how, or why, or who... don't want to hear about it. It'd be crazy. The hell with 'em. All o' them. The hell with the whole Twentieth Century"    to rebuild the life many of you may remember. It will be difficult at first. But time will teach us many things. Each of us has something to give the other. Go home now, and tomorrow we will begin again to find the dreams we first dreamed when we built Dreamtown." The people sat in stunned silence for a moment. Then a cheer, lonely and overloud in the silence, went up from a man in the crowd. A woman ran from the crowd and seized a child from the group standing huddled to one side of the Playground square. The woman was followed by two other women who did the same thing, and soon the silence was broken by the loud and excited talking of the great crowd of people. "So much will have to be taught to these people," Professor Corbett whispered as he watched the people file out of the Playground. Dan held Nancy in his arms as he spoke. "We must teach them to hold elections instead of blindly following self appointed leaders." "We'll build schools and publishing houses again," Professor Corbett said happily. "And baseball diamonds and football fields." "There's such a long way to go." "We'll begin tomorrow."    It was part of a picture in part of a building that had once been the Louvre. And somewhere back in his lost memory, it was also a name for "Whitey"... Illustrated by Ed Emsh place 'Lutetia Parisiorum', which means 'the mud town of the Parissii', Later on people got around to calling it 'the city of light " Marty Coleman was saying. "Well, Julius was sure as hell a lot closer to the truth than those others," I tell him. We was sitting in the mud in what's left of some big building and me and Joe White was listening to Marty, our Sergeant, talking like he always does. When I says the sergeant was talking I mean he was talking over the C.C., the Company Communication Circuit because what with having our mecho-armor on and the other side raising a little hell, we couldn't of heard him any other way. "Yeah, I guess you're right, Ward. There isn't much light around here anymore," Coleman admitted. "The only light you ever see around here these days is a flare or a rocket going over," White says in that funny flat voice of his. From time to time Coleman would lift the headpiece of his armor above the pile of rubble in front of us and take a quick look out over the big open square toward where the enemy was holed up on the other side. About half the time he'd draw small arm or automatic fire. "Those birds must have infrared eyepieces too," he says as he sets down. "Ah they ain't even got mechoarmor," I says. "No, but they have body armor and helmets with quite a bit of stuff in them." "I'll bet they ain't got anything like we got." I was feeling pretty fine right then thinking how much better off we was than the poor joes in the infantry. We don't just fight in our suits, we live in 'em. They ain't only a mechanized suit of armor, they're our barracks, messroom and latrine and all radiation and rain proof. We got more fire power than a company of infantry and more radio equipment than a tank. "You know there's lots worse ways of fighting a war," I says. "You climb into one of these babies and they seal you up like a sardine but at least you're warm and dry and you don't even have to use your own feet to walk. You got a nice little atomic power pack to move you around." "You couldn't move the legs of one of these things if you had to," the Sergeant says. "It... it just seems like a kind of funny way to fight a war," White says, talking like he always did, as though he had to hunt for every word before he said it. "What's funny about it? They been fighting it this way for ten years, haven't they?" I demands. "I guess so... I don't know... "Yeah, ten years. And the last five of it we've spent crawling back and forth in what used to be Paris," the sergeant was talking again. "Just think... in the old wars they used to call it Gay Paree." "It's gay all right," I says, following a movement on my ground radar screen. A beep had shown up, indicating activity over where the enemy was. Their guns was silent now but across the mud pools came their voices, voices that from time to time cut in on our circuits and competed with the voices of our own side. Suddenly a girl was talking, a girl with a soft voice that was like warm lips against your ear. "Hello there, you fellows across the line. It's not much fun being here is it? Especially when you know that some non-draft back in the hometown walked off with your girl a long time ago. "Honey Chile," the voice went on, "this is your old gal, Sally May, and I know how you all feel 'cause I used to be on the same side myself until I found out how things are over here in the Peoples Federal Democratic Eastern Republics..." The bleat of a code message cut through the syrupy tones, tore at our ears for a few moments and faded away. Slowly the sweet voice drifted back. "Well, fellows, we're gonna play you some real homey music in a few minutes, but first we're gonna tell you all about our contest. We know you all Yankee boys like contests and this one is a real humdinger. "This here contest is open to every GI over there in the mechounits. And have we got prizes? why, honey, we sure have! Listen to this big first prize: # dollars in gold! And then we have an expense paid vacation in the scenic Crimea and a brand new factory special Stalin sportscar. And fellows, get this : A TV appearance on a nationwide hookup with a dinner date afterwards with glamorous Sonia Nickolovich, the famous ballerina. "Now I guess you boys are wonderin' what you gotta do to win these wonderful prizes. Well, this is how easy it is. All you gotta do is write out a thousand word statement on 'How my mecho-armor works' and deliver it along with your armor to the nearest P.F.D.E.R. army unit. Now... isn't that easy? And this contest is open to everyone but agents of the P.F.D.E.R. and their relatives." The soft voice faded away. "Why... the dirty -- What do they think we are?" Just on general principles I sent a half-dozen # mm shells in the direction of their lines. "I don't -- think I -- understand that at all. What are they trying to do?" White asks. "I thought the enemy was Reds." "You're in pretty bad shape, ain't you buddy?" I laughs. "Can't you even remember who you're fighting?" "Leave him alone, will you. Ward," the sergeant orders. "If you had been brain washed as many times as he has you'd have trouble remembering things too." "Whatta ya mean?" Sarge swung the big headpiece of his armor around and looked at White through his electric eyes. "How many times you been captured, Whitey?" he asks. "I... I don't know, Sarge. I don't remember. Twice... I guess." "That's two brain washings from the enemy and two rewashings from our own psycho units. Four electronic brain washings don't leave much in a man's brain." "Well, I'll be damned. Which side was you on first, Whitey?" I asks. "I don't know... I don't remember." 'Ah come on now, you must know. Was you a Russian or an American? Western Democratic Peoples Federal Republics or Peoples Federal Democratic Eastern Republics -- which side?" "I... don't know. All I know is that they ain't good and we got to fight them until we kill all of them." "How do you know they ain't good?" I demands. "If you don't know which side you was on to start with, maybe you was shootin' at your own brothers this morning... or your mother." "You better watch your mouth. Ward. There might be a Loyalty Officer tuned in on the band. You wouldn't want a probe, would you?" Coleman asks. "Ah, they ain't listenin', Sarge. don't know nothin' but how to run that damn armor and how to fight. He don't even know who he was to start with." "I wish I did know... I wish I..." "You know, Whitey, maybe you was a big shot on the other side. Maybe you was Joe Stalin's grandson or something. Remember!" an eager voice whispered in our ears. 'Remember what you are fighting for. In the machines than in any place else in the world!" I had to laugh. "You ever seen a washing machine, Sarge?" I asks. Coleman was looking back toward our lines. "Yeah. There used to be a place called Brooklyn that was full of 'em. You know, there's something going on back there. The whole company seems to be moving up. And there's a big armored crawler there with a smaller one parked beside it." He sits back down with a clanking of armor. "Must be some big shots coming around to see how we're winning the war." "I wish someone would use a can opener on me right now and take me out of this walking sardine can and plump me into a washing machine. I ain't been clean in five years," I says. "Do they have washing machines on the other side?" Whitey wants to know. "Naw. They ain't got nothin' like that, nothin' at all," I tells him. "Things like washing machines is reserved for us capitalists." "If we got washing machines and they ain't, then what are we fighting for?" Whitey asks. "You better ask the Sarge that. He's the intellectual around here. He reads all the comic books and things." "Why do you think we're fighting, Whitey?" Coleman asks. "Well, Sarge... I don't know. If I could just remember who I used to be, I'd know. Sometime I'm gonna remember. Every once in a while I can almost... but then I don't." "Well, why do you think we're fighting?" I asks. "Well... well... I guess it's that there's bad guys and good guys ,... just like in the comics or on the TV shows. We're the good guys and they're the bad guys. Is that right, Sarge?" "I don't know, Whitey. That might be some of it but I kinda think that maybe it has something to do with when we won the last war or thought we won it. We thought we had finished with the Nazi's but I guess maybe we got fooled. In Europe the Nazi's all turned Communist and in America the Commies all turned Nazi. Either way people like them have always got the jump on the joes in between. In Europe they pointed at them and called them Nazi's. In America they pointed at them and called them Reds. Pretty soon people didn't know the difference, except that it was better to be pointing than to be pointed at." "Now, Sarge, you're the one that better careful. You wouldn't want the Loyalty Officer to be hearing that sort of talk, would you?" I cuts in. "Maybe you're right but I kinda think that that's why ,..." cuit in our helmets opened up with orders for us to pull back and join the rest of the company. All the way back Whitey doesn't say anything so I figure he's trying to remember who he is. Well, we gets back to the command post without drawing more than a little small arms fire and a couple of rockets, but things is really popping there. The big crawler Coleman seen from our outpost is settin' there in the middle of the street and the whole company is gathered around it. "What's goin' on?" I say as I sidle up beside Fred Dobshanski. "Don't you guys know? There's a big drive cornin' up. General Mac self."  Whitey was right beside me. He sure was a fimny guy, always hanging around and asking questions. Sometimes I used to wonder what he looked like. You get used to not seeing any of the guys when you're in the forward areas. Sometimes for weeks or months at a time a whole area will be contaminated with bacteria or radiation and you don't open your suit at all. Even if you're wounded the mecho-armor gives you a shot and takes you back to a field hospital... that is, if it's still working. So you get used to not knowing what the guys look like and not caring much. But with Whitey it was different. His voice had such a dull someplace-else sound to it that you got to wondering if there was really anyone in that suit of armor or not. You got to wondering if maybe it just walked around by itself. Whitey asks as if in answer to my thoughts. "Hell, don't you know anything?" Fred says. "I guess I don't. I... I... don't even know who I was. I sorta wish I knew who I used to be." to us. Look... there he is now." I adjusted my eyepieces for direct vision and sure enough on the kind of balcony on the back of this big armored crawler was a guy. I mean to tell you he sure looked like something too. He was in full battle armor with scarlet trimmings and gold rivets. He was wearing a mother-of-pearl plated helmet with three stars set in rubies. Even the twin machine guns that were fitted to his armor instead of the # recoilless and # mm we had on ours was plated to look like silver. "Gosh! Imagine a General coming 'way up here in all this mud and stuff. That guy must really have guts!" someone mutters on the company circuit. "Yeah. I bet he's only got one swimming pool in that land yacht of his." "Shut up! What's the matter with you? That ain't no way to talk. You a sub or something?" "Say, did you guys see what I saw through the windows of that crawler? Dames!" "Dames?" "Who you kiddin'?" "So help me. There was two of them. Two big, tall, willowy, blond "Them's the General's aides." "Yeah? What do they aid him at?" "Shut up you guys," the Captain's voice cuts in. "The General is going to speak." Well then he starts right in telling us about the great crusade we're engaged upon and how civilization is at stake. And how proud the home folks is of us. Of course, he admits we haven't had any direct word from the States since last year when we had those big cobalt bomb raids, but he just knows that they all love us. Right when he starts I know we're in for trouble, 'cause when the brass start talking about crusades, a lot of joes is gonna get killed. He goes on with this for half an hour, and all the time the TV cameras is grinding away from this other crawler that is filled with newsers and video people. He mentions blood # times and that ain't good. Sweat he says # times and guts an even dozen. When it really looks bad, though, is when he calls the Major and the Captain up and pins a medal on each of the medal racks that officers wear on the front of their armor. When they start passing out the medals ahead of time, brother, it ain't good, it ain't good at all. When he gets through with all this, the old boy retires into his crawler. "I guess he's going in to plan the battle," I says. "Ha," says Sergeant Coleman's voice in my ear. "All the blood and guts in that speech wore him out so much he's got to retire to his bar for a few quick ones with them two aides of his." "Now, Sarge," I says, "that ain't no way for a patriot to talk." "My patriotism is at a very low ebb at the moment. Do you know what kind of a party we're going to have in the morning?" "No," I says, "but I would be interested in finding out." "You've seen that huge mile-long building that's across the square from us?" "I've seen it and found little to like about it. The enemy has every kind of gun in there that's been invented." "Well, the Captain says that that's it! Fighting Joe wants us to take it." 'Remember boys, remember that the way of life in the W,D.P,F.R. is better. Remember what youWe fighting for -- hotdogs and new cars, electric refrigerators and apple pie, sweethearts and mother, DonH let mother down boysP A voice that used to sell us bath soap is selling us war. "That kind of sounds like we're getting ready to move in, don't it Sarge?" I says. Sure enough a half hour later we starts to move up. The whole company of thirty men is on its way with the rest of the battalion close behind. "Say, maybe there'll be some dames up ahead," Dobshanski is saying. "What do you want with dames? You got the Waiting Wife and the Faithful Sweetheart on your TV, ain't you?" the Sergeant says. "It ain't the same. It ain't the same at all," Dobshanski says, I cuts in with, "Hey, did you guys hear what I heard? Pretty soon we won't really need women anymore. Those new suits of armor we're going to get have got Realie TV sets in 'em. When a gal comes on it's just like she was in the suit with you. Those suits is gonna take care of everything and I mean everything." "Ah, who ya kiddin'? Who ya handin' that line to?" "Him and his inside dope!" Twenty minutes later we're in position among the wrecked buildings on our side of the square and several kinds of hell is traveling back and forth across it. As is usual, the enemy seems to have as good an idea as to what we're about as we have. "Oh, brother," Coleman moans. copy of his orders as soon as he got through writing them?" is plowing up the already plowed up pavement all around us. Geysers of mud and water are being lifted by shells on all sides. I sees a couple of guys go down and I stumbles over a tangled mess of armor and flesh as we break from cover and start across the hundred yards or so of the square. Floater rockets are overhead, cir-. cling kind of lazy like and lighting up the whole company as pretty as a summer's day with big magnesium flares. It's real comfortin' to see guys on all sides of you, but not so comfortin' when you sees them failin' right and left. I know I'm running with the rest of the guys 'cause I can hear my power pack rev up and feel the steel legs of my suit pounding along through the mud. I can feel the suit automatically swerving to avoid shell holes and to throw off the enemy aim. Not that they're really aiming, they're just tossing everything they got into that square and bettin' on the law of averages. The whole length of the big marble building we're after is lit up now, but not with lights, it's lit up with gun flashes. The company and battalion radio bands is a mess. Even the command circuit is filled with guys yellin' and screamin', but there don't seem to be much point to orders right now anyway. I keep on goin' cause I don't know what else to do. Once or twice I recognise Coleman and White by the numbers on their armor and I get one glimpse of Fred Dobshanski just as half a dozen # mm shells tear his armor and him apart. Then I'm almost at the building, and I'm being hit by pointblank light machine-gun fire. I'm blazing back with my # and #, pouring tracers through the windows and being thankful my armor can take machine gun fire even at close range. There's other guys all around me now and we're smashing through doors and crashing over window sills into the building. The place is full of enemy joes and they're hitting us with everything they can throw. I take a couple of # mm shells that knock me off my feet, but Whitey blasts the gun crew two seconds later. We fight our way up a pair of marble stairways and they're really pouring it on us from up above, when suddenly they take a notion to rush us and come rushing down the steps... about three hundred of them. What we did to them ain't pretty. That light plastic battle armor of theirs don't even look like stopping our stuff ; and packed together like they are on those steps, it's murder. A lot of them get to the bottom, but there ain't much left of them when they get there. It's all over then. Guys are yelling for the Medic robot and for the Ammo robots and others are just slumped down in their suits waiting for something else to happen... and it ain't long in happening. It can't be more than ten minutes after we chased the last Red out the back of our objective before their heavy guns're trying to knock it down around our ears. Armor or no armor, what's left of the battalion takes refuge in the cellars where a few hours before the Reds were playing possum from our guns. Coleman, Whitey and I find us a nice heavy beam and are standing under it. Coleman is talking, as usual, and Whitey is wondering who he is and I'm watching the Major and Captain take inventory. Our assets ain't what they used to be. There's about twenty guys left in our company and maybe about sixty-five in the whole battalion. I guess that's why the Major ain't very friendly when some of the guys dig out a couple dozen women and children who've been hiding in the building. "Well, I'll be damned! Look what's cornin' in!" I says to Coleman. There's maybe twenty women and the rest is kids. "Why do the kids always seem to outlast the rest of the people, Sarge?" I asks. "Every place we been in this town, there's always more kids left alive than older folks." "I don't know. Ward. Maybe they make a smaller target." They've already got the kids lined up and we've given 'em the candy bars wrapped in propaganda leaflets that we all carry. Like all foreigners, they ain't very polite or grateful. They can't even understand what I'm saying even when I turn up my outside amplifier full power. "What's the matter with them punks? Don't they appreciate candy?" I asks the sergeant who is muttering to one of them in some of their own gibberish. "They say the Russians didn't give them anything but lumps of sugar and we don't give them anything but candy. They'd like something else." "Now ain't that just like people like them," I says to White. "No gratitude to us for liberating them or for feedin' 'em." "I think I would know what it's all about if I could just remember. You know, Sarge, for a few minutes up' above there I almost remembered. Then the shelling started and... and... I don't know..." Whitey is still harping on his favorite subject so I turns back to the sergeant and the kids he's talkin' to. "What's with these punks? What they got to complain about? If it wasn't for us they wouldn't have no country." "They say that the Russians was about to take them away to a camp and make soldiers out of them and they're afraid we'll do the same." "Well... what in hell do they want to do? Spend the rest of their lives hiding in a hole while we do their fighting?" "This youngster says he doesn't want to be brain washed. He doesn't want to be a soldier." "He's right," Whitey pipes up. "He don't want to be like me. You know, I had a dream... or did I remember? Anyway in this... dream... of mine, I remembered that I had been an important person like you said. Ward. But not on the enemy side. I knew something and wanted to tell it to the whole army but they didn't want me to. That's why they sent me to the psycho machines. That's why they made me like I am." "What was it you knew. White?" the sergeant asks. "I'm not sure. It was something... something about there not being any more Western Federation or any Eastern Republics... no more America... no more Russia... just two self-perpetuating armies... like hoards of maggots crawling across the corpse of Europe." "That's a funny sort of dream... a very funny sort of dream," the sergeant says. "Why would you have any sort of crazy dream like that?" I demands. "You know we hear broadcasts about how things are getting along so fine back home all the time." "How long's it been since you got a letter, Ward?" Coleman asks. "Letter? I don't remember. Who'd write to me anyway? What's the matter with them kids? Do they want the Russians to come back and rape their mothers and sisters?" "I'll ask them," Sarge says, and starts gibbering again through his outside amplifier to a skinny brat that's doing the talking for all of them. Pretty quick the kid gabbles back just like he understood. "He says that their mothers and sisters have been raped so many times by both sides that it don't make any difference anymore." "They ain't got no at..." I starts to say but the Major is yelling at the Captain so I stops to listen. "Where are their men? Where are they hiding?" He shakes his fist under the noses of these French women and the Captain questions them. "Why did they permit the Russians to hide out in this building? Don't they know that being here is collaborating with the enemy? Where are their men? I'll have them hung!" The Major is really hopping mad. "I beg your pardon, sir." The Captain interrupts him. "This woman says that, their men are on the second floor and..." "Good! Send six men up there and hang every one of them." "Sir, they say that the Russians have already hung them. As American collaborationists, sir!" "What! Humph! Well... send some men up there to cut them down and hang them again. No! Wait, Captain! We'll wait until the TV cameras get here." It was just then that the word came for us to pull back, for us to give up this building and fall back to our old positions. "My God! What's the matter with them?" Whitey says. "After all the guys we lost taking this place, why do we have to give it up?" "Maybe they want us to do it over again for the TV," the Sergeant says as we watch the other two companies pull out, herding the civilians before them. "I don't want to go," Whitey says suddenly. "If I stay here I might remember." "To hell with it, Whitey," Coleman tells him. "Maybe you wouldn't like it if you did remember. Maybe you're better off this way." "I like it here. There used to be pictures up above... I found a piece of one during the fighting... , it was... beautiful." "Come on, Whitey! Let's get going! Don't you see what the Captain's doing?" I says. The others look and start moving fast. The Captain must have been mad about giving up our objective 'cause he'd set up a disrupter bomb on the floor and started a time fse. Maybe you've never seen a disrupter bomb and maybe you wouldn't want to. In a way they're an improvement on the atomic bomb. They cause individual atomic explosions that keep blasting for hours after you start them. When that bomb gets through, there won't be anything left. Pretty quick we're out in the open and running as fast as our mechos legs can carry us. We're about halfway across the square when I see Whitey suddenly break away from Coleman and head back toward the building. He gets there and is heading in the door just as the disrupter bomb lets loose. That building started doing a dance, a kind of strip tease I guess, 'cause it's shedding roof and walls right and left. Later on, when we're back in our lines, I'm sitting beside Coleman while our mecho-armor is whipping up some X-rations for us. "Why did he do it, Sarge? Why'd Whitey go back?" "I don't know. There was something about that building that he thought he remembered. It reminded him of something. That picture he found kind of set him off. He said maybe it was the last one there was in the world." "Did... did he remember who he was?" "I guess at the last he did... or at least he remembered some thing." "Did he remember his name?" "I guess so." "Well, what was it?" "He didn't tell me. Maybe his name was Man." "Man? That's a funny name. Well ,... his name sure is mud now." "Maybe the two names are the same. Ward," he says. The sergeant always was a funny guy.    If historians have ever pondered that eerie and magical transformation of Abigaile Goodyeare, that "faire young maide" who aged so before the disbelieving eyes of gallows witnesses, mayhaps herein lies the answer... I saw this faire young maide, Abigaile Goodyeare standing yonder on ye gallows and shee saith againe and againe that she was no witch, although the jury had founde her guilty of . familiarity with Satan, the grand enemie of God man; and that by his instigation and help... afflicted and done harm to the bodyes and estates of sundry of his Majesties subjects... at the girl huddled in the corner of the time machine. There were white streaks down her face where recent tears had washed off the grime of several days spent in a Illustrated by Kelly Freas primitive jail. Her almost jet black hair was a tangled mess, hanging in strings to her shoulders. He wrinkled his nose small compartment. There was romance in history, he thought, when viewed in the abstract, but not when one faced history in the person of a female who had languished several days in an unsanitary prison. "Pray, Sir," she asked slowly, and so softly he scarcely heard her, "Art thou the Lord? Or one of His Angels?" Nat started to laugh, but she looked so pitiful he checked himself. "No, I'm a human being, just like yourself -- except that I've never been accused of witchcraft!" A look of fear crossed her face. "Verily, I testify unto thee that I am no witch, but have the fear of God before mine eyes." She was almost frantic in her statement. She cringed farther into the corner. Nat noticed the raw wounds on her wrists where the irons had chafed her. "Sure, sure, I believe you," Nat said sharply. "They won't hang you now!" Then he added glumly, "But they'll probably do worse to me if they find out what Fve done!" She looked up at him, wonder in her deep blue eyes, her long lashes blinking slowly. Even her bedraggled appearance and the dirt that literally covered her could not hide from Nat the beauty of her eyes. "Then perhaps thou art an emissary of the Evil One, though thou hast a kind look to thy features that seemeth not to come of the Devil." This time Nat laughed. He had read the ancient records known as hooks but hearing someone talk in archaic book fashion was too much. "That was quite a speech. Pretty Eyes. But get it through your head that I'm a normal human who had a momentary lapse and did an abnormal thing. I used the paralysis ray on wide range, stopped the show and hauled you off the gallows. Right now we're in a time machine headed for... I'm not sure where." The girl forgot her fear in momentary puzzlement. "Paraly.sis ray?" she repeated slowly, "Stop the show? Time machine?" "Oh, skip it," he said. "What we need right now is a chance to get you cleaned up -- and I think I know just the place. There's a pretty beach in #th century Mexico. It's warm, and there's a fresh water stream running into the ocean. You can wash off some of that prison grime." The sun beat down on Nat's blonde head as he sat on a rock overlooking a river mouth and several miles of Mexican beach. Abby -- he'd finally discovered that her name was Abigaile Goodyeare -- was behind a clump of bushes beside the stream, vainly trying to wash her voluminous clothing. Now that the shock and humor had passed, Nat was deeply worried. He couldn't take Abby back to his own time and announce that he hadn't the heart to see her hanged, on the other hand, he simply could not take her back to #th century New England to be hanged for witchcraft. If he dropped her off in any other time, they'd think she was insane. Nat had been making a routine historical survey, part of the work on his thesis about life in #th century New England. And on his first venture into time, he had ended up committing one of the most serious crimes possible in his society -- Time Meddling. Earlier in the day, just before leaving Earth University in the #th century, tall, ascetic Anton Bor, Chief of the Time Inspection Corps, had impressed on him the penalties for Time Meddling. Fixing Nat with cold grey eyes, Bor had recited the familiar warning in calculated tones: "At no time, and under no circumstance, are people in past ages to know they are being observed." It was Nat's first solo adventure into time, and his indoctrination, as thorough as it was, had not prepared him for the shock he experienced a few hours later. He had been completely unprepared for the scene that lay before his eyes as he came out of the thick woods into a clearing. A gallows had been erected on a mound in the center of the cleared space and a large crowd had gathered to watch what seemed to be an execution. Checking his invisibility shield, Nat moved closer. A tall, gaunt man, with a look of righteous wrath on his face was reading from a scroll. Except for his clothing, the man looked exactly Nat shook his head in disbelief, but strained his ears to hear what the man was reading. "... she was found guilty of felonyes and witchcrafts whereof she stood indicted and sentence of death accordingly passed that she be hanged by the neck until she be dead..." Nat tore his eyes from the man with the scroll and looked at the witch. He gasped audibly at what he saw, so that several people nearby looked curiously around. Realizing his error, he stood completely still until the people he had disturbed turned their attention back to the gallows. Again he looked at the woman. She was no half insane old hag, a busybody who had meddled her way into a witchcraft trial, but a bewildered, fearful young woman who couldn't have been more than # or # years old. Her hands were tied behind her back, pulling her bulky dress tight across her bosom. Her tangled, matted, black hair, the dirt on her face, her wrinkled disheveled clothing could not hide a great natural beauty. But what affected Nat most, was the look on her face. It was that of a frightened, helpless animal, cornered by a vicious, heartless predator. The self-righteous bearing of the tall man, the lack of sympathy and idle curiosity mirrored in the faces of the crowd infuriated Nat. Impulsively he had used his paralysis ray, an instrument that was designed only as a last resort when a time traveler needed to beat a quick retreat unnoticed. While the entire gathering was in a suspended state, he had carried Abby away from the gallows, and clocked away in the time machine. Now, completely confused, he was sitting worriedly in the warm sunshine of #th century Mexico, wondering what to do. Abby's approach broke his reverie. She seemed almost lost in one of his spare one-piece coveralls. She was carrying her own garments, dripping wet, on her arm. In modesty she had put her own quaint shoes on again. Her dark hair curled wetly about her shoulders, and the exertion of bathing and washing her clothing had left a becoming flush on her cheeks. "Feel better, Abby?" he asked in a light-hearted manner he didn't feel. "Verily, thou art a strange one," she answered, lowering her eyes in an almost obsequious manner. "Though the way thou useth the diminutive of my name is pleasant to my ear." "Well, your pretty face is pleasant to my eyes, but it's certainly gotten me into a lot of trouble," Nat answered gruffly. She looked downcast. "Truly I'm contrite if I have caused thee trouble." The penitent look on her face melted Nat's irritability. "Let's eat," he said quickly. "You must be hungry. And while you eat. I'll try to explain what happened and maybe figure out what to do." A week passed, and Nat still was undecided. He was puzzled by a strange restlessness that nagged at him constantly. That is, he was puzzled until the first time he kissed her. The difference in their backgrounds was vast. They were separated by centuries of time. But now, thrown together, facing a common fear of the past and the future, there could be only one outcome. At the end of the first week, they were sitting on opposite sides of a beach fire. A soft breeze, blowing off the water, added a chill to the evening air. Abby rose to put another log on the fire. Nat stood up quickly to help her. "Let me lift that, Abby," he said with an air of protection. "It's pretty heavy." "Please, no," she answered in her quaint way. "Tis nothing. I have lifted heavier burdens than this many times." He put his hand on her wrist. It was the first time he had touched her since he had carried her from the gallows. For the past week he had been so preoccupied he had hardly noticed her as she had gone quietly about their impromptu camp, cooking the wild game and fish he had caught with his paralysis ray. The feel of her soft, warm wrist in his hand thrilled him. His voice suddenly left him, as he consciously realized for the first time how beautiful she was. Her fresh innocence, her complexion, freshly tanned by the Southern sun, seemed to fill his entire being. He drew her close, kissed her full lips. Because of her Puritan heritage, she exhibited surprise. "Verily, Nathanial Lyon, my people would frown on an embrace like this." Then she whispered, "But I find it most pleasant, because I have grown so very fond of thee." With that she threw her arms around him and pressed her lips to his. Time lost its meaning, and they stood for uncounted minutes. At last she shivered. "I feel a chill, dear Nat." "No wonder, darling," he whispered. "We've been standing here so long the fire has gone out." That night Nat made his decision. "I can't take you back to be hanged, Abby," he said tenderly. "But at the same time I can't go back to my own time, they'd do worse than that to me." "I understand not this time travel," Abby said thoughtfully. "If thou canst send this device to any time of thy choosing, couldst thou not spend months, or even years away and still get back to your own time when thou art expected?" "That's it, Abby, that's it!" Nat shouted, jumping to his feet. "We'll stay away a lifetime. And when we take the machine back, they won't be able to do anything that matters because we'll have had our life together! Or better yet, we'll never go back at all!" Suddenly he sobered, dropped back to the ground beside her, taking her hands in his. "That is, if you'll marry me, Abby darling." "Why, Nathanial," she answered without a flicker of a smile. "That was all settled when first I yielded to thy embrace." Nat's mouth dropped open, then he laughed, as he remembered his studies of the customs and morals of Abby's time. "Abby, verily thou art priceless," he said delightedly in her own speech. She gave her opinion of him, silently... with her lips. "Abby," Nat finally whispered, "I'm going to give you the best honeymoon a woman ever had." "Honeymoon? Of a truth, I know not of what thou speakest." Nat chuckled, then kissed the end of her pert nose. "You'll see, my love, you'll see. But first we have to make you Mrs. Nathanial Lyon. There was a time, right after the Third World War, when marriage was easy, with no questions asked. So right now, it's off to the disorganized world of the late #th century." And so began one of the strangest honeymoons in the history of Earth's human race. Nat and Abby were unseen observers when Pericles ruled Greece. They visited the court of Charlemagne, walked through the streets of Rome at the height of its splendor, viewed the glories and wickedness of Babylon and Baghdad, watched the artisans of old Cathay. But fate chose their honeymoon as the time of their undoing. Nat had believed they would be safe for the rest of their lives. He knew that detection of the time machine was virtually impossible unless their full dimensional des... assuming that he had been missed in the #th century, which he believed unlikely. Sealed chrowould give him away if he ever returned the time machine to base. But premature discovery need be the only worry now. As he had explained to Abby, "The power plant in these things gives off traceable radiation, provided the tracer gets close enough. But right now, tracing us would be like looking for a needle in a haystack. All we've got to watch out for is another time machine with someone aboard who might have reason to be suspicious of us." And it happened just that way as they sat watching the original first night of a Shakespeare play. Another time machine controlled by an Arts student from Earth University appeared in an adjoining balcony. Nat flicked his machine to full power -- too late! The student, an acquaintance of Nat's, had nodded in recognition. Clocking away, Nat couldn't avoid a glum comment. "Well, the full force now." Abby studied Nat's face. "Darling," she said, "Let's settle down. Why need we travel at all?" Her calm erased Nat's concern. "We'll do it!" he exclaimed, confident again. N at parked his new model T Ford in the garage. He walked quickly into the kitchen, kissed his wife. It was no perfunctory peck so much the practice in the times in which they lived, but a tender, passionate embrace, as if it might be their last. "Nat, there's been someone around the house today. I'm worried," Abby finally said. The muscles in his stomach tightened. "Maybe they've traced us. What did he look like?" "He was tall, severe, in fact he could almost pass for old Jonathan Borden, the man who was in charge of my execution, the man who read the charges against me." "Anton Bor!" Nat said hoarsely. Abby threw her arms around Nat, buried her head in his shoulder. Her arms held him with desperation. "Oh darling, we've been so happy these past five years. They can't separate us. I'd rather die first!" He tipped her head back, kissed the tears that had trickled down each cheek. "If they catch us, we'll probably both die. But at least we're ready for them." He was interrupted by a knock on the door. Through the front curtains he glimpsed a car in front of the house. A hasty look out the back revealed another one parked in the alley. "Quick, Abby, into the basement before they use a paralysis ray," he whispered. Aloud he shouted, "Just a moment!" to the person at the front door. With nervous fingers Nat unlocked a heavily reinforced door in the basement. He heard a crash upstairs as the front door was battered in. At almost the same instant he swung the door open and they stepped into the time machine. With movements they had practiced many times, he tripped the activating lever and the machine vanished, leaving the hiding place Nat had built around the machine after they had bought the house several years earlier. They weren't a moment too soon, for both felt the slight tingling of a paralysis ray. Their departure had occurred just at the men had pushed the firing stud. Even so, it clouded Nat's vision, slowed his reflexes. "Another second and they'd have had us, Abby," he said aloud, after he had returned to normal. She pressed her lips to his. "I hated to leave #, but we can start over again wherever you say," Abby whispered. The surf crashed and boomed on the coral reef. Nat lay in the shade of a cocoanut palm, watching the white clouds scudding by overhead. Abby came walking down the beach towards him, tanned a deep brown from head to foot, dressed as the Polynesians had dressed before Captain Cook had discovered them. "You're every bit as beautiful as the women described in the old tales of the South Sea Islands," Nat said as she sat down beside him. "And you're as big a flatterer as any sailor who ever told those stories," she answered, although she was pleased by his admiration. She lay back, stretched her hands over her head with a happy look on her face. "I'm # years old and don't compare to our young neighbors on the other islands." Nat rolled over, putting an arm across her waist, kissed her tenderly. "I'm the luckiest man in the world," he whispered. She looked up, her blue eyes serious. "You don't regret giving up all you had in your own time?" "I didn't know what true happiness was," he answered firmly. "People in the #th century are automatons, hemmed in by rules, regulations, regimented by necessity on the planet." He kissed her again, as the warm trade winds ruffled her dark hair -- and they forgot about time. But they didn't have real peace tenaciousness of Anton Bor was always present. Nat and Abby had learned the language thoroughly through the time machine's hypno-translator, then picked an uninhabited little island in the atoll. After weeks of sun bathing, they had let themselves be discovered by the natives in their outrigger canoes. The natives quietly accepted Nat and Abby as slightly different, but members of their informal society, for it was inconceivable to them that any but their own kind could be living on one of the atolls. "This is a heavenly life," Abby sighed, stretching out on the sand one day. "Cocoanuts, breadfruit, seafood, all for the taking. I'll hate to leave it." "But I'm afraid we must," Nat said slowly, "And soon, too. We don't dare stay too long in one place." From the islands, Nat and Abby drifted on from century to century, usually stopping in post-war periods when both governments and populations were preoccupied with constructive social progress. It was during the American reconstruction period following Nat was an engineer, rebuilding shattered Seattle, when one day he spotted a tall, angular mechanic, newly hired on the project -- and unmistakably Anion Bor! Ten years before, Nat and Abby had cached the time machine a hundred miles away. Now, as they winged through the night in their private helicopter, Nat groaned at the futility of matching wits with scientists of century twenty-five. "I don't understand it, Abby! There's atomic radiation lingering here from the war. We're working on a reactor for the city's power to track us down." "Perhaps, Dear Nat," Abby said, lapsing into her original old New England speech, as she often did when thinking deeply, "He followeth us by inductive methods rather than through his science." There was a moment's silence. Nat broke it to say, "We've been doing the obvious. Well then, our next stop must be different!" They cruised silently toward the hiding place of their time machine until they saw the faint glow of a radioactive crater. A missile missing its target, had gouged a large hole in the mountainside. Nat had hidden the time machine in a cave as close as possible to the crater to lessen the chance of detection by "Just in case they have spotted our machine, and someone is waiting for us, we're going to take the last few miles on foot," Nat said, checking his paralysis gun. He set the heli down in a clearing and they started cautiously forward on foot, working their way up the mountainside, with all the tension of a hunter stalking game. A hundred yards from the cave entrance, they spotted a campfire. They approached stealthily, and finally were able to make out the shadowy form of an old man, apparently a war hermit who had set up a mountain retreat. At the very outset of the Third World War, the expression "take to the hills" had become a reality to many. Afterwards, when a prostrated world had begun painful reconstruction, lone men and women, and sometimes couples, continued to roam through the forests and deserts of Earth. Fugitives from fear in the beginning, many had held to the nomadic existence, liking their new individuality. guise," Nat whispered. "Why not use thy paralysis ray now?" Abby whispered back, "And not take chances." Nat nodded, and silently they crept forward. When they finally were in range, Nat raised his weapon and pressed the stud. The hermit didn't move a muscle. The dancing flames of the fire cast strange shadows over the camp site, reflecting off his shelter half, lighting the coffee pot sitting on a rock. Swiftly, without fear of detection, Nat and Abby strode forward, towards the cave and their escape. As they reached the entrance they heard a derisive laugh. Whirling sharply, they saw the "hermit" rising slowly to his feet, a late #th century weapon in his hand. Horror stricken, Nat glanced at the paralysis ray in his own hand, the thought flashing across his mind that the tiny atomic battery had given out. "No, your weapon is still good! You just didn't count on our thoroughness!" the man laughed, using the vernacular of Nat's own time. "I've been waiting here a year, while Bor combed the whole area for you." "Lord, Abby!" Nat gasped hoarsely. "They've developed a neutralizing field, something they were experimenting with when I left." The agent laughed coarsely in agreement. "Just come away from the cave while I put in a call to Inspector Bor!" They moved towards the fire, and it was then that the agent got a good look at Abby. His eyes moved slowly from her head to her feet, taking in every detail of her full figure. "Some dish you have there Lyon. I'm beginning to understand why you checked out on us!" Nat was surprised at the agent's obvious lechery. Such animal reaction had been largely overcome by the #th century. The agent snickered, recognizing Nat's surprise. "You asked for it, Lyon, when you tried to paralyze me! There's still a little problem to be solved in this matter of neutralizing a paralysis ray. Right now I'm morally drunk, haven't an inhibition in the world." He licked his lips. "Come here, girl. I want to see you close up -- real close!" Abby had drawn back, horrified, but now she leaned toward Nat and started talking in the ancient Greek they had learned during their honeymoon. "Let me try to seduce him, Nat. Maybe we can get away before Bor gets here!" "What's she mumbling about?" the agent demanded suspiciously. "She's talking Greek," Nat explained. "She doesn't understand the Anglo-oriental combination we speak in the #th century." The agent's eyes flitted back to Abby, noting her dark hair, her even features, moving hungrily over her figure again. "Come here!" he ordered huskily, motioning with his hands. Abby stepped hesitantly forward, a perfectly simulated look of puzzlement on her face. Nat stepped forward at the same time, hoping to get closer to the guard. "Stay where you are," the agent snarled, waving his weapon at Nat. Abby looked around at Nat with a cautioning expression on her face as the agent moved slowly towards her. Careful to keep the gun pointed at Nat, the agent put out a hand, slid his arm around her waist. Nat could tell by her quivering shoulders that Abby was revolted by the man's touch, although she managed a faint, inviting smile. Nat was poised, ready to move in when the agent dropped his guard. Then he suddenly felt stark terror as he saw the man pull out a small paralysis gun. 'T think I'll immobilize you, Lyon, while I get better acquainted with your girl friend," he rasped. Nat jumped, but the ray gun caught him in mid-air. His thoughts as he regained consciousness later were an agony of confusion. Feeling the familiar sensation of a time machine in motion, he filled in the blank about what must have happened to Abby. Sick with resignation he opened his eyes, then sat up quickly, blinking in disbelief, for Abby was sitting at the controls of the machine. Her blouse was soiled and ripped, her hair mussed and Nat thought he saw blood on her skirt. But she was humming a tune as she checked the dials. "Abby," Nat cried. "Are you all right?" Her smile said more than words. "You seem to forget, my dear husband," she said happily, coming over to him. "We tender New England pioneers learned a few things about self protection." "What happened?" Abby shuddered. "It wasn't pleasant, having that beast paw threw him off guard. About the time he started ripping my clothing off, I used the little dagger we picked up in Renaissance Italy." Suddenly a sob broke through her artificial gaiety and she was in Nat's arms, her control completely gone. Her body racked with sobs, tears streaming down her face. "They're getting closer each time, Abby," Nat said reflectively. "Next time they probably will get us." "But we're still together," Abby said fiercely. "And, if we're careful, they may never find us again." Years passed. Nat and Abby'j youthful happiness flowered into the contentment of those who have lived their allotted years in wisdom. Nat had retired many years before, and he and Abby were content with simple pleasures. Evenings they sat together on the porch of their Florida cottage, enjoying the ocean breeze and each other's presence. It was on such an evening that their world came to an end. While they sat as usual, reminiscing, Nat wondered aloud if Anton Bor still lived. He scarcely had uttered the question before the grass on the lawn seemed to shimmer slightly, and a time machine materialized before their startled eyes. Its door burst open and three men sprang out with weapons ready. After them came the halting, decrepit figure of an ancient Anton Bor, a paralysis gun wavering unsteadily in his shriveled hands. The shock was so great that Nat and Abby sat completely unmoving and the full power of Bor's weapon caught them where they sat. N at and abby stood before the Judgement Tribunal in the #th century. Mere punishment had long since passed out of existence. A law breaker had his case reviewed by a board of psychiatrists, lawyers, sociologists, even historians. A person's past was laid bare, in an effort to find out why aberrant action had been taken. The board recommended remedial action that varied greatly from case to case. "We find you guilty," the spokesman finally stated, "of Time Meddling, an offence that can have the gravest consequences. In this case, our problem is two-fold. First, we must correct the original action. Second, we must do all in our power to discourage actions such as you have taken. "With this in mind, you, personally, will see corrective measures carried out. Anton Bor, who worked so self-sacrificingly over so many years to bring this case to a close, will supervise the correction." This time Nat was prepared. The scene was exactly as he remembered it. But now the gallows was empty, the spectators frozen statues. "The paralysis ray's effects last for a little more than five minutes," Bor said with the coldness of a machine. "We have that much time to accomplish our job." Bound and helpless, Nat heard Bor bark a command. He saw an assistant pick up the paralysed form of his wife, dressed again in #th century style, and walk out across the valley. He placed Abby on the gallows, put the rope around her neck and moved quickly back to the woods. "Now we'll watch it," Bor said with cold finality. "I think my ancestor out there, Jonathan Borden would be proud of me," he added with a trace of smugness. "... flj we watched, it seemed suddenly our vision blurred and there was the smell of brimstone in the aire and when we could see againe, there in the place of comely young Abigaile Goodyeare, was a wrinkled gruesome crone, more like unto a spectre, with gray hair and wrinkled visage, whose true age could only be guessed at    less quest for new worlds to conquer. This can only be regarded as admirable; the pity of it is that, in spite of the cosmic dimensions of the setting... the theme is fundamentally monotonous... while the human elements do not differ from those to be found in any average novel. Science fiction may stimulate our imaginations by postulating developments in the future, but it can add nothing to our knowledge or understanding of human nature and it is with the latter that all thinking men are chiefly concerned." ( Continued from page #) The really lamentable thing about science fiction is that lots of people -- certainly including our quoted British writer -- don't know much about it, don't know that science fiction can be wonderful reading about Mankind, chemistry, economics, cybernetics, semantics, philosophy, physics, history, politics, evolution, etcetera, etcetera, ad infinitum! -- Or -- that serious minded scientists, doctors, lawyers, engineers, students, politicians, people, etcetera, etcetera, ad infinitum, do read it! -- jlq what Is Your Science I. Q.? science fiction readers, but now and then we get letters saying the questions are either too easy or too difficult. Counting five for each correct answer, see what your score is and then let us know whether it is "tough" or "tender" for your knowledge of things science-wise. Answers are on page #. #. When a circle of sunlight can be seen around the edge of the moon during an eclipse, it is known as an eclipse. #. What is the general term used when referring to all the isotopes of all the elements? #. An astronomical unit is equal to miles. #. How long does an average radium atom take to decay? #. A thermocouple is used to measure the of a star. #. Which is the brightest of the asteroids, the only one it might be possible to see with fhe naked eye? #. The average sunshine energy received by a square mile of the Earth's surface is about kilowatts. #. Who was the first man to launch a liquid fuel rocket? #. The unit is used to express the length of light waves. #. What have Neutrinos, Photons, and Gravitons in common? I I . Sunspots occur in year cycles. #. What is the name given to a luminous circle parallel to the horizon at the altitude of the sun? #. Our galaxy measures an estimated light years across. #. The highest known speed of a star is that of a double star in the constellation Gygnus. What is its speed? #. The pressure at the core of the Earth is estimated to equal about pounds per square inch. #. Who was the man who did most to promote the idea of the Martian "canals"? #. Jet engine noise is measured at between and decibels. #. How much would a # pound Earthman weigh on Mars? #. The Milky Way and the Andromeda Nebula are both , which are visible to the naked eye from the United States. #. How many moons have been discovered, so far, in our solar system? Regardless of scientific attainment, any culture is vulnerable to inhibition. And Saxon was a good agent; no culture nor individual would sway his loyal appraisal... Here the forest was green and cool. A soft, damp wind promised rain. The colonists moved down the ramp, staring at the crew members piling crates of supplies in the meadow beyond. Frowns. Then whispers. Saxon glanced up. His nostrils flared. "Hurry," he told the crewmen, and came forward, beaming. He was tired. It showed in his feverish, too-bright smile as he said, "Afraid Engineering's a little behind schedule. They'll be here tomorrow morning to ereQt your city. Tonight you'll have to rough it." Reactions varied. The women murmured and moved closer to their men. Some smiled. One man thoughtfully eyed the mounting pyramid of supplies. "You're getting a choice world, Jarl," Saxon said, clapping him on the shoulder. "Survey spent thirty years here, balancing the ecology, wiping out the bugs and carnivores. Eden." Saxon tasted the word like wine. Jarl Madsen's face was stone. "Aren't they all named Eden?" From the forest came a chittering bark, like anthropomorphic laughter. Saxon shivered, remembering the thing that chittered, the threeinch fangs and the talons. "Hardly," he lied. "That, incidentally, was a Narl. Herbivore, very harmless." Madsen walked past him, towards the supplies. Saxon moved among the colonists, shaking hands, congratulating, speaking of green fields and good crops and a virgin planet where every man could carve an empire. These last moments were the worst, when you said goodbye. knowing that thirty percent qf them would be dead within the week. He saw Madsen opening a supply case. Damn him! Just three more minutes! The last crew member dumped his load and hurried into the airlock. Saxon started casually after him, too late. Madsen stood there, his grin taut, nailed on. "Primitive pre-fab shelters," he said thickly. "Axes and seeds! The. city was a lie. We're on our own, is that it? IF A)? -- " Saxon's palm flashed and Madsen fell writhing. There were shouts, hands clawing at him as he tore free, sprinting for the ship. Always running, he thought bitterly. Fm getting old. He walked through the silent corridors of the ship, a lonely figure in the black uniform of the Inhibition Corps, and once he stared a mottled sphere receding into the star-frosted night. His mouth twisted. Conceive a colony in fear, breed it in terror. Watch it adapt, grow. If it grows too fast, hurt it. Hurt it with disease, famine, dictatorship. If it keeps growing -- destroy it. The captain came down the corridor and stood at respectful attention before the black uniform. "Stereo call. Commander. Prime Base." Saxon slowly went to his cabin. The stereo panel was flashing steady crimson to designate top priority and he restrained a savage impulse to shut the thing off. He slumped in the control chair, and the tri-di image of a man at a desk slowly coalesced. It was a granite-featured old man with eyes like blue ice, and Saxon's head snapped sharply erect. It was Primus Gant, Corps Director. At ninety parsecs Gant's features were slightly hazed, but his voice was clear, sharp as a sword. "Report, Commander." "My extrapolation went through an hour ago. Also my resignation." Nothing moved in Gant's face or his eyes. Saxon said stiffly, "Planetfall uneventful. Area inimical. Initial shock conception, probable God-betrayal mythology by fourth generation. Those things in the forest should get thirty percent of them the first week. Weaponless, they'll run. The two to one female ratio should make for an agricultural matriarchy by the sixth generation. Recommend intermittent check at that time." He took a slow angry breath. "Why didn't we give them weapons?" Gant's smile was acid. "Because we haven't yet tried an agricultural matriarchy. Commander. Because the lower the initial survival factor, the slower the culture development. Getting squeamish?" Saxon said doggedly, "They didn't have a chance." ple on Earth in the last atomic war." The Director's voice was soft. "All colonists volunteer. Some have a vision. Others have a latent power drive that stasis can't satisfy. They're misfits regardless, potential threats to stasis. Remember your last leave. Commander? I believe you met my son." Saxon nodded curtly. He remembered the Director's son as a quiet, soft-spoken youth with the yearning for far places in his eyes. "I had hoped he woiild qualify for the Corps." Gant looked suddenly old, tired. "Instead he's volunteering for Colonial Service. Did you ever lose a son. Commander?" They stared at each other across the humming emptiness and Saxon finally whispered, "I'm sorry." "Stasis is all we can afford," the Director said numbly. "Man can't have Utopia yet. Because he's still -- Man. Perhaps he'll never have it. But by God he'll try!' Resignation withdrawn?" Saxon nodded. He could not speak. "I'm glad. The ship's captain had orders to bum you down had you refused." Gant's face was wooden. "Inhibition agents never quit, they just die in harness. You'll take the lifeboat to Eden XI for sixth generation check. Good hunting, Commander." The image faded. Saxon sat for a long time, staring into the darkness. E den XI was three parsecs distant, near Algol. For the next ten hours Saxon paced the marvelously equipped lifeboat and absorbed data from the robot recorder. He stared at the hard crystal ache of the stars and thought of the Director's son. He thought about the shining cities of Earth, and about stasis. Stasis meant -- control. ple, a rigid planetary economy. It meant the Assassination branch of the Corps. Assassination (carefully contrived to appear accidental) took care of those few malcontents who were either too smart or too stupid to sign up for colonization. It meant a gradual weeding out of the unsane, the power-mad, it meant learning the true meaning of sanity and peace and racial brotherhood. And it meant the stagnation of science, a thick film of dust gathering on the textbooks of the military tactician, and warships rotting at anchor. It meant the white spire of the Stasis Administration Center at New Washington, and the words graven over the golden portals: Know thyself, Man, Or die! Was the dream worth it? Or was Man doomed to die like a brawling ape, playing with lightning? Saxon could not answer. Meanwhile the colonies had to be inhibited. One interplanetary war could smash the fragile structure so painstakingly built over the last few hundred years. This was the turning point, the final crossroads of Man's destiny. Saxon smiled bleakly. Ultimately there would be a colony they could neither inhibit or destroy. The adaptive ultimate. That colony would be Man no longer, but Homo Superior. But by then, it wouldn't matter. The lifeboat came in on the night side of Eden XI, and hung above the blue mountains like a basking shark. Saxon checked his coordinates. This had been the original landing site, almost two hundred years ago. He switched the infraview on maximum, and began to cruise in widening spirals. These sixth generation hops were usually routine. If nomadic, a few political shifts could help warp the culture into a set pattern. A simple matter to play the visiting deity, pick one warped psychotic, and invest him with power. A dictatorship was by far the best way of inhibiting a young culture. Agricultural citystates were almost as easy. Designate a particular crop as sacred, kill the rotation program, impoverish the land, introduce serfdom. By dawn, Saxon found what he was looking for. A row of cleared fields and a farmhouse. He reconnoitered a hundred miles farther and frowned. There was no clump of dwellings, no sign of a village trading community. He brought the ship down in a forest three miles away from the farmhouse and camouflaged it to look like a great mossy boulder. He spent the entire morning testing the atmosphere and the soil with a savage patience. In the early years of the Corps, virus mutations had taken a fearful toll of intermittent spotters. Finally he discarded his uniform and selected a pair of homespuns from the ship's wardrobe locker. Under the homespuns reposed his utility kit, a miniature arsenal. Late that afternoon he emerged from the forest and stood at the edge of the cleared fields, a weathto chop wood for a meal. Abruptly his jaw muscle twitched. The scene was pastoral, perfect. The man, plowing the south forty. The little girl, playing in the shadow of the sleepy farmhouse. But no beast pulled that plow. A giant of a man with power and intelligense stamped on his bronze features pushed the plow by hand, in a die-straight furrow. The little girl was blonde and elfin. She wore sandals, her tunic was brief and plain. She was playing follow-the-leader -- With a robot. The robot was tall. The sun struck sparks from its steel carapace as it lumbered after the girl. Saxon stood frozen as she came flying towards him in a burst of tossing blond hair and laughter, as she saw him and came to a dead halt. "Hello," Saxon said. He tried to smile. "Hello." Her inflection was slurred. After six generations, naturally. Her blue eyes sparkled. "Footsore, stranger?" The words had the cadence of a ritual greeting. Saxon stared at the robot and said carefully, "Yes." "He's only a primer model," she said, following his gaze. "Next year when I'm twelve Father promised to install secondary circuits. My name's Veena. What's yours?" Saxon introduced himself, as the giant at the plow came forward. His white smile was a benediction, his voice a lambent organ. "Welcome, rover. Haven't seen one of you in months. I'm Lang, Agricultural hobbyist. You'll stay?" His tone was almost pleading. Saxon nodded inarticulately, followed them towards the farmhouse. His hands were shaking. The interior of the house was -- dimensionless. For a moment Saxon thought he was still outside. A silver brook tinkled through the mossy carpet that was the floor. The south wall was a golden vista of ripe wheat rippling in the warm breeze that ruffled his hair. Birds twittered in the sun-flecked foliage overhead. "Nice house," Saxon said numbLang's smile was diflferent. "A bit pretentious. I'm afraid. Grandfather built it right after the landing. We've been too lazy to do much remodeling. A remarkable man, Grandfather." That explained it, Saxon thought in relief. One titan in an infant colony, warping it into a Utopian rnold, passing on the heritage of his genius. How long, he wondered coldly, before they built starships and returned to demolish the Earth which had exiled them? "It must be wonderful to be a rover," Veena said wistfully. "Lang, can I go with him when he leaves?" "You haven't completed Basic Ecology. Mentor's waiting for your afternoon session." Veena pouted and went outside to her robot. Lang grinned. "The precocious brat's beginning to ask him questions he can't answer. Soon I'll have to install a few more circuits." Saxon shivered. Regardless of scientific attainment, any culture is vulnerable to inhibition. So said his agent's handbook. Later he met Veena's mother, Merl, a handsome woman with calm gray eyes who served them dinner by firelight. It was a good dinner. These colonists seemed like good people. A shame they qualified for inhibition. Gently, Saxon began to probe. In only six generations the colonists has scattered throughout the entire hemisphere. Although the matrix of their culture seemed to be the individual family unit, they lived according to whim. Some lived in small communal groups. Some lived alone. Some, by choice, were wanderers, rovers. They had science. Their philosophy seemed nebulous, based on a benevolent ecology, brotherhood with all living things. Saxon frowned. Six generations ago, the ecology on this world hardly had been benevolent for man. This area of the continent had been a steaming marsh, swarming with hungry saurians. Now it was all meadow and forest. Saxon said thoughtfully, "Have you ever felt the need for organization? For a leader?" He leaned back and waited for the seed to sprout. Two years ago said the same thing to a sixth generation shaman, and it took scarcely a month for the shaman to start an intra-tribal war. But now the seed fell on sterile ground. Lang said, "I don't understand. Any problem which cannot be solved at family level is referred to the annual council." "A leader." Saxon was patient. "One strong man to represent everybody. To settle all problems as he sees fit?" "Remember, Father?" Veena prodded. "Those arboreal cannibals Grandfather used to mention? They had a nomadic tribal culture based on brute strength." Lang nodded somberly. "Good analogy. The most favorable extrapolation indicated a racial life expectancy of only ten thousand years. Their emotional stability index was nil, they would eventually have destroyed themselves. The first generation decided it would be more merciful to exterminate them. An unwise decision, I think." He launched into a spirited ethnological discussion with Veena, and Saxon sat, numbly. They had no emotional insecurity to feed, no power-hunger. No herd instinct to pervert, nothing to utilize as destruction potential. No cultural weakness. The room they gave him was small and comfortable. For a time he lay on the sleeping hammock, considering the situation. He was beginning to like them. That in itself, was dangerous. The house was very still. He got quietly out of the hammock and crept towards the door. He had to get back to the lifeboat, to feed facts into the monitor. One thing disturbed him. According to his agent's handbook, family-group anarchies didn't need inhibition. He was halfway across the plowed field when Mentor's iron voice said, "Good evening." Moonfire glimmered on metal. The robot stood impassively before him. Saxon said slowly, "I was just going for a walk." "You are our guest: I shall walk with you." "I prefer to walk alone." "Guests prefer company. The house of Lang must observe the basic amenities." Was there a hint of sardonicism in Mentor's voice? They walked along the furrows, man and robot. Saxon felt beneath his shirt for the utility kit. He kept his voice level. "Am I a prisoner?" "You are a guest." "Did Veena tell you I might try to escape?" A pause, while relays clicked silently. "That is classified information." Saxon's fingers were steady as they touched his tiny blaster. Benevolent anarchy indeed! He said carefully, "Do the colonists resent their exile?" Another pause. Mentor's voice was a flat drone. "The concept is meaningless, the question invalid." Like hell it is, thought Saxon, and fired. A cold blue wash of energy illuminated the robot. For a moment Saxon was blinded. When vision returned he saw Mentor standing immobile, unscathed. "Please go back to bed," the robot said, Saxon went back to bed. brought him breakfast. She seemed sad, withdrawn. "Lang and Merl went to visit Aunt Tarsi. She lives near the Equator. They won't be back till evening." "How" Saxon had trouble breathing. "How did they go?" "By transmitter, of course." She indicated a large shimmering platform in one corner. "Oh, I'm sorry. I forgot rovers hate the mention of any type of gadgetry." Her eyes grew impossibly earnest. "But we try to achieve some kind of balance, really. Once when I suggested that Father let Mentor help him plow the fields, he got furious." Saxon restained wild laughter. First the robot, invulnerable to atomic energy, now a matter transmitter. Yet they plowed their own fields. "Veena," he said. She looked up at him. "Why did you tell Mentor to keep me here?" She bowed her bright head. Her blue eyes were brimming. "Why, Veena?" "Because I like you," she sniffled. "I wanted you to s-stay." Abruptly she fled from the room. He stood bleakly looking after her. After a time he went outside and struck across the field towards the forest. This time the robot did not stop him. Do not allow the emotional charm of any culture, nor any individual of that culture, to sway your inhibition appraisal. In the narrow confines of the lifeboat he repeated the quotation grimly. Good inhibition agents are inflexible. He was a good agent. For almost an hour he fed data into the monitor tapes. Then he touched a stud and closed his eyes, waiting for judgment. "Agricultural family-group societies are normally stagnant," the monitor droned. "Such cultures, regardless of technological level, do not warrent inhibition of any type. Reference : twelfth generation check on Eden V." The room spun. Saxon whispered, "But they have cybernetics, matter transmitters." "Regardless o f technological level." The monitor was adamant. This was madness. Saxon wiped his forehead and said, "Assuming geographical isolation no barrier to united group action in the event of emergency." "United action is incompatible with family-group." "Assume and advise!" Relays chattered. Abruptly the entire panel flashed crimson. The monitor spoke one word. Annihilation. Saxon referred to his Inhibition handbook. He had never annihilated a culture before. One hour later he went into the forest. Birds sang overhead. The sun dappled him in light and shadow. He stalked a small furry quadruped that squealed at him from a log and brought it down with his sonic pistol. Back in the lifeboat he watched the animal regain consciousness in an air-tight tank, and very slowly he pulled a lever. A green vapor rolled into the tank. The quadruped screamed. The green vapor fed. It was the penultimate in sporedom, yet it was more than a spore. It had virus characteristics, and its propagation rate was almost mathematically impossible. There was no known defense, and once used, the entire planet was forever untouchable. To Saxon's knowledge it had been utilized only once on Eden I. At dusk, he took the lifeboat up fifty miles. He released the spores in a widening spiral, and finally jettisoned the tank. He went into an orbit at ten thousand miles, and waited. It would take approximately a week. It was a long week. Saxon slept little. He paced the cabin. He looked at the stars and thought about a blue-eyed waif with tears in her voice, begging him to stay. After a week the life-boat came down at the edge of a grassy plain. Saxon took a sample of the contaminated atmosphere to determine propagation rate. The atmosphere was pure. Some freak of expansion. One uncontaminated spot in a hemisphere of death. He selected another location. Then another. That evening he close the coordinates of his original landing site and tested the air again. Finally he went outside the airlock. He breathed deeply, and the air was fresh and sweet, it smelled of forest and cool streams and evening dew. In the blue dusk birds twittered. A small marsupial very much like a squirrel scampered to the safety of a tree and scolded him. Saxon began walking. At the edge of the forest he saw the familiar plowed field. The farmhouse was a friendly beacon in the twilight. "Hello," Veena said. She stood at the edge of the forest. She was smiling. "Welcome home, rover." For the next few days Saxon was the perfect guest. He argued philosophical abstractions with the family by firelight ; by day he hiked in the woods with Veena and listened to Mentor give her lessons. He asked questions. "Veena, do you know what a microorganism is?" "Benevolent or malignant?" "Malignant. A plague." She pursed her lips. "Organic or cultural?" "Organic of course." "Bacteria." Veena shrugged. "Quite a few of the first generation died immediately after the landing. Until they adapted. Until they analyzed the basic metabolism of the planet's dominant life-forms, and constructed a neutralizer." "A neutralizer?" "A protective shell of ionized particles," she said patiently, "keyed to the individual bodychemistry." "Classified information," Mentor droned. Saxon licked his lips. "You mentioned cultural microorganisms?" "Much more deadly. I call them that, but Lang says I'm being semantically unsound. War, for example. Racial inferiority. To date we haven't found a cure." She broke off, and her eyes were shining wet. "But you don't have wars," Saxon said. "No." "Then?" "We have a -- ghetto," the girl said slowly. "I can't tell you about it. Perhaps soon -- " Abruptly she changed the subject. Slowly, Saxon's defenses began to crumble. To all intents he was now a member of Lang's household, Veena's adopted big brother. Big brother -- or pet? It did not really matter. back to the lifeboat. He remembered his graduation day, the crash of the Corps anthem, and the pledge. I do faithfully swear to uphold the ideals of Man, to use this vested power for the absolute good of Earth. I will not shrink from any cup of duty, regardless of how bitter. I will guard stasis with my life, and the lives of innocent people if need be, people whose only crime may be that they are potential threats to stasis -- He tinkered with the ship's reactor for an hour. Then he ran. Behind him the lifeboat dissolved in a white blossom of flame. Farewell the cold stars and the ache and the loneliness. Farewell the destruction of newborn colonies to secure the rotting stagnancy of Earth. He would have a great many bad nights, but he was used to bad nights. He thought of Veena and his stride quickened. She would be a beautiful woman. They were waiting for him back at the farm house, Lang, Veena and Merl. They were staring at the dark pyre of smoke in the forest. Saxon took a deep breath and squared his shoulders. "I've got a confession to make -- " They weren't listening. Lang said quietly, "You were right, Veena. He may qualify." "Come." Merl took her husband's arm. "Let's call the Council." They went inside. Saxon looked at Veena. He moistened his lips. "You knew," he said. She nodded. There was a queer adult maturity about her as she said, "Wait. They're calling an emergency Council meeting to decide if you're fit." "Fit," Saxon said. Coldly, it seeped in. To survive? To be a playmate, a slave? "It's been a game," he said, grasping her shoulders. "You've known all along." "They're taking the transmitter to the Landing Site now," she said. "Would you like to watch?" Watch judgment of the outcasts on one of those who had marooned them? Why not? Lang and Merl were no longer in the house. Veena touched a silver stud in one comer, and one side of the room dissolved from a vista of golden wheat to a grassy amphitheatre. There were people assembled in the clearing. Lang and Merl stood on a mossy dais, making a speech. He saw the ship. It was a giant silver ovoid, fretted with strange vanes, pockmarked by the red cancer of rust. Towering forest patriarchs guarded that ship like a woodland shrine. A ship that had never been born on Earth. An alien ship. Understanding came, and a quiet horror. He lurched away from the screen, away from Veena. He was outside now, and running. He was a good Inhibition agent, he had been conditioned to the shock of alien concepts for half his lifetime, but the ground reeled beneath him as he ran and he could feel the hot trickle of blood where he had bitten through his lip to keep from screaming. Aliens. From oidside. Homo Superior, treating his apebrother with an hospitable contempt. Playing their inscrutable game. The lifeboat came down almost in front of him. It came down with a whining snarl and settled into the plowed field. The airlock opened. Primus Gant stepped out. His blue eyes were very cold and he was smiling. "Report, Commander." Years of conditioned reflex brought him erect, made him whisper, "Mission unsuccessful." He swayed, almost fell. Gant held him. "Easy, lad. We got the blowup a few minutes ago. It took us awhile to home in on the distress transmitter in your utility kit." He chuckled at Saxon's blank stare. "Whenever an agent's ship is destroyed his utility belt automatically functions as a distress signal." Saxon shook his head painfully. "You've been waiting?" "We started ten days ago when your monitor gave out with the annihilation alarm." He eyed Saxon keenly. "Just how bad is it?" Saxon told him. Gant's face turned a dirty white. "Aliens," he said thickly. "They probably murdered the original colony. You've come through nicely, lad. It may mean promotion." He turned into the ship. "Come on." "Wait." Saxon's voice was a dry whisper. "You're not going to -- " "Demolition," Gant said. "I've got a task force up there that can crack a planet. Let's go, Commander." I will not shrink from any cup of duty -- "Please," Saxon said huskily. "I don't believe they're inimical to Man. They're altruists." "So?" "They're benevolent," Saxon pleaded. "Both races can live together!" "Don't be a fool," Gant grunted, and turned into the airlock. Saxon leapt. One palm came down hard at the base of the Director's skull. (Continued on page #) Illustrated by Paul Orhan The York Problem Warfare, diplomacy, art, music, science, religion -- have all failed to secure peace for the world. But still there is hope for Mankind. Another experiment remains: change the color line -- and let's see what happens... i# T hey sat around the table, thirteen men dressed in the prescribed blue of their office. They spoke quietly, without tension, and they all seemed alike. Commissioner Dobu summed up this meeting of the Earth Council of Prevention and Correction of NonConformity. 'Tt is to be regretted," he said, "that the juvenile deliquency problem remains unsolved in York. It is also to be noted, and included in the local reports of the sector captains, that the problem has existed some six hundred years, since #, speaking in general figures. Therefore, the fault lies not with us -- though this point is to be hinted at rather than stated per se. Peaceful Sirs." The council members accepted his aside, with brief nods and briefer smiles, for the problem of York was nothing to smile at. Dobu cleared his throat and continued. "Since the Federated Galactic Bill of Inherent Human Rights forbids psychiatric treatment or syndromic surgery against an individual's wishes, and since the people of York under the fanatic tutorship of their church masters consider psychiatry a sacrilege, there is no easy solution -- no humane solution. But people who have refused all advice, aid and education for six hundred years no longer deserve humane treatment. Therefore, as we have done on so many other occasions, and as has been done by our predecessors, we present what we feel is the only solution. Namely, that York as a community, and the people of York as a whole, be eliminated in whatever manner the Federated Galactic Council sees fit. Sterilization appears to be the method most suitable. But even euthanasia would not be out of order." Mala Wang yawned as she read the commissioner's report. It was like all the others she'd sent to Galactic Council in the four years she'd ing had ever happened; not unless you counted the Report-Received flashes. She inserted a fresh strip into the feeder, worked the keys efficiently, and began sending. "Federated Galactic Council, Centauri Peaceful Sirs: In the meeting of July, #, the problem of York, its adult inhabitants, and more particularly its juvenile delinquents  Some forty minutes later, she was finished. She shut off the feeder, opened the ejector, and waited. Before she'd finished buffing the nails on her left hand, the ejector began clicking. "Report Received" emerged on the tape. Mala shrugged and pushed back her chair, but another series of clicks stopped her. "Urgently request operator stand by for results emergency session, Federated Galactic Council, being called at this time. Business: Conon York Sector." Mala stared at the tape, and slowly her eyes grew wide and her lips parted. Then she threw the inter-departmental switch and rang Commissioner Dobu. As soon as Dobu's face materialized on the screen, she said, "Peaceful Sir! I've just received a message that indicates the Galactic Council is going to take action on your reports!" A half-hour later, the Earth Council of Prevention and Correction of Non-Conformity was reconvened, waiting for the Galactic Council's decision. They were all wondering whether it would be sterilization or euthanasia. He'd been that way for weeks now, or was it months? Anyway, life was getting to be a foul-blooded pain! He saw the empty can, kicked it, watched it bounce along the cracked pavement. When it stopped bouncing, he was again faced with his problem: What to do on a hot July afternoon? He considered going down to Frank's Vizio Palace, but decided against it. Not that he was afraid of the Sinais, but it was too hot to invade enemy territory alone. Besides, he had brained all this month's vizios and new ones wouldn't be in for at least a week. So he leaned against the tenement's warped wall and looked for more cans to kick. On a day like this, he thought, a kid could almost wish vacation was over and school back in operation. Then he saw Pete Smith and waved a languid hand. "How's the pure-blood?" he asked. "Living," Pete answered. "And I can see Mr. Aryan's doing all right for -- " Both froze as the patrol bubble turned the corner on racing treads and pulled up short. John considered making a run for it, but saw it was too late. Pete had arrived at the same conclusion. "They picked our lips on the vocal-box," Pete whispered. "We're in trouble." John didn't have a chance to answer. The two Blasts were out of their bubble and coming toward them. The tall one said mechanically, "Section twenty-seven. Earth Ordinances, using profane language on public lanes. Subsection twelve, covering classification of terms of racial-superiority as profanity due to its negation of established fact and the harmful effects -- " "Oh, shove it. Blast," Pete muttered. "We know the public scroll. So you picked us up on the box. So what?" him. "You people never will learn. Why don't you accept the status quo, learn to live like human beings?" "That's what I always say," John murmured sarcastically. The Blast stepped in and slapped him, hard. John rocked back on his heels, clenched his fists, but did nothing. The Blast slapped him again, not quite so hard but with a great deal more deliberation. John bit his lip and dropped his eyes. "Yeah," he said. "Why don't we act like human beings!" The second Blast, a shorter, heavier man, waved his companion away. "Easy, Farn. Don't let this Yorker get you." He turned to the two adolescents, something like pity in his brown eyes. "We'll let it pass, this time. But we've got you down on our photopads. The next offense means Re-education House." Neither boy said a word, but John's cheek burned. and something in his chest burned even more. The conciliatory Blast hesitated; then said, "Why don't you boys come down to Composite Youth Center? We've got the latest vizios, athletic -- " "We're members of RaceThrough-God," John said, a quiet satisfaction in his voice. "The scroll says we can't be forced to attend go to meetings regularly." Fam, the Blast who had slapped John, whirled around and stamped back to the bubble. "C'mon, Stan!" he called. "This filthy slum sickens me! Stan nodded, but lowered his voice to a confidential murmur. "You'll never get out of York, be issued a space visa, or do anything worth while if you stick to the racechurch stuff, boys. You don't know what the Galaxy is like -- the planets, the beautiful cities. It's really something. Just sign up for for Integration and meet some really beautiful ladies." "We got our own ladies," John said, sullen and irritated. And his emotions bothered him. He should be enraged, after the slaps and sacriligeous lecture; not irritated. "We don't want Integration." Stan shrugged wearily. "All right. So you'll stick in this archaic hole, and eventually try to kill one of us, and end up on a euthanasia table. And one day the Galactic Council will get fed up and clean out the lot of you." He turned to the bubble, speaking over his shoulder. "Watch your steps. Any gang fights, stealing, or profanity will get you six months. The Blasts in Re-education won't slap -- they'll use electros on your fannies!" When the bubble went down the street and around the corner, Pete spat eloquently. John was still fighting his irritation, his vast sense of dissatisfaction, but he spat too, and said, "Man, I'd love to do a carve on all Outsiders!" "John!" a shrill voice called. "John, you getting into trouble again?" John turned light blue eyes to the left and looked at the ground floor window. "Oh, ease up, Ma! Can't an Aryan stand up to a foulblood Outsider?" "John!" the gray-haired, prematurely-old woman screeched. Her eyes darted up and down the street and her voice dropped to an intense whisper. "Don't you use those words in public! A profanity charge is all we need, what with your father drinking -- " John tried to interrupt, but she raised her voice again and shouted him down. "Don't you go getting into trouble, bringing those Blasts around bothering God-fearing folk who want to be left alone! It's you kids that make it tough for the rest of us. That rabble would let us be if you -- " John rubbed his short-cropped blond hair in exasperation, and stalked to the corner. Pete followed, and they paused near the curb, ignoring the tirade which continued behind them. Finally, the woman stopped speaking and drew her head back inside the window. The street was old, cracked In many places. But it didn't matter. The only traffic was the ramshackle public snake which ran once every half-hour, and an occasional transport, and the Blast bubbles which were constantly on the prowl for profanity, theft, attacks on Outsiders, and juvenile delinquency. "For once in a foul-blood lifetime," John exploded, "let's cut a different caper! I'm sick of fighting the Sinais and Albines and Sons of Musso. I want Upper City, where we can pick up some high loot." Pete's thick jaw fell open and he stared at his blond, slender companion. "Upper City! But the Blasts -- " "It's a free Galaxy, ain't it?" John snapped. "We're allowed anywhere our disks take us, ain't we? So I want to travel Upper City." "They'll watch us," Pete muttered. "Even if we could grab some loot, I don't like it there. My old man works as custodian in a food vendro. I went with him a few times and I didn't like it. The Outsiders look at us as if we smelled bad, and they don't sit near when we're on the snake. I tell you it's tough, John. Let's get a few of the boys and raid the Sons of Musso." John hesitated, and then decided that as leader of the Adolphs he had to follow through on what he'd said. He moved into the street and walked casually to the snake stop. "If you're jetting out, okay. But I don't operate that way." Pete didn't move. "You been there lately?" he jeered. "You know what it's like?" John acted as if he were too disgusted to answer. He'd been to Upper City several times, but that was years ago, when he was a baby and his mother had gone against the Divine-Angel-Ghurch master's wishes and had him inoculated against cancer. Everyone was doing it on the sly anyway, so she took him for his three shots. Then she'd switched to the Race-Through-God sect, and it was like the other, only there the master let it be known he'd taken his anti-cancer shots like everyone else. But John didn't remember much of Upper City, except that the people had looked at them with amusement and some contempt. He'd wondered why they did, but when he asked his mother she'd said he'd find out for himself. He had. The foul-blood trash! They had no pride. And they were all alike! He searched for a disk as the snake appeared at the corner. The jointed series of cars moved slowly on its tractor-like treads, turbo exhaust filtering through the blocktube high on the engine. Each year it seemed to get slower, noisier, shabbier. as the snake stopped. He placed his disk in the slot, waited a moment, then moved inside as the Clear buzzer sounded. He'd tried to fake his disk a few times, cutting imitations from plastic cans, but the auto-guard was too damn smart. It always rang for the Blast each snake carried in a little booth hinged to the last car. He found a seat near a window and glanced around. Not half-filled this early in the day. Later, when four o'clock came, it would be jammed. He turned to the window and watched the familiar shabby streets flow by. As they entered Sinai territory, he felt a tightening of the stomach muscles. But then he laughed and remembered he was on the snake, not invading. Nevertheless, when two big kids got on and took seats across the aisle, he knew a moment of fear. They were Sinais, all right. He'd seen the muscular one in a caper last winter. And they knew him for an Adolph. They exchanged glares, and John kept his face tough. The muscular Sinai took out a knife, holding it low so no one but John could see and began to run his finger over the blade. John reached for his own sticker; then stopped. He grinned like it. It was equivalent to calling them Outsiders. But their corner came along and they had to hop it. John turned back to the window. He'd get his sticker into that muscular one; see if he didn't! "Your sister sleeps with Outsiders," a soft voice murmured. John jerked around, and saw the three kids shuffling past his seat. They grinned at him and the softspoken one said, "You don't like it, Adolph? Step off at Benito Street and we'll have it out." John controlled his rage. "Some other time," he said, voice calm. "I'm capering Upper City today. Maybe you boys would like to declare a truce and come along?" They all stared at him. Then the one who did all the talking said, "Hell, he's a foul-blood liar!" "Sure," John said as they slumped into seats. "Follow me to the Split and see." "Okay," another Son of Musso said. "We will." And the three of them grinned at him. John grinned back, but he felt far from Aryan inside. Now he wouldn't be able to jet out. Now he'd really have to cross the Split. He began to sweat, hoping the snake would break down along the route, that a Blast would stop him from crossing, that the Earth would blow up! Anything to keep from having to cross the Split. He knew now that he'd never meant to do it -- just take a ride, kill some time, and bluff Pete when he got back. Ten minutes later, the Last Corner sign lit up at car end. The three Sons of Musso strolled out into the street and waited, standing quietly under the eyes of the Blasts who were always around the dry river bed which separated York from Upper City. This was the Split, and John had to leave the car. He came out, walked past the three kids toward the span, and stopped at the gate. "One to Upper City," he said, throat dry. The Blast gave him a sharp look. "Why do you want to go there, boy?" "Free Galaxy, ain't it?" John muttered. The Blast shrugged, handed him a transfer disk, lifted the gate. John had a momentary surge of satisfaction as he heard the Sons of Musso talking excitedly behind him. It wasn't every day that a kid from York invaded Upper City. Then he was at the shiny new snake and his stomach tightened and he was sweating. He kept walking, got on the fifth car, took a seat in the last row. He was the only passenger, but he'd seen others waiting in the cars he'd passed. Older folks. People who worked in Upper City, doing various menial tasks for the Outsiders. Ill When the Blast walked through on his way to the back-box, John ran to the port and looked out across the one-piece duralume span. The Sons of Musso were still there. Before he could make a decision, the snake eased forward fluidly and then hit high speed. John Stevens was frightened, but he composed his features and returned to his seat. He sat straight and tried to remember what the master had said about maintaining dignity in front of Outsiders, showing them the stuff pure-bloods were made of. But the words fled his mind as he gazed out of the window. Upper City was really something. Wide thoroughfares lacing over and under each other in stop-free through ways. Thousands -- no, miU lions of private bubbles rolling along with gaily-dressed passengers! Low, square, bright-looking buildings. Trees and grass and flowers everywhere. And then, for one glorious moment, they were in Bunche Spaceport, the greatest on Earth! John drank in the huge, upright needles that stood gleaming in the July sun, waiting to blast off for planets where even greater cities and spaceports were established. If only he, John Stevens of York, could get inside one of those ships and go -- Deep bitterness hit him, and all the irritation he'd felt for the past weeks was back. They don't let us do anything! he thought. They keep us poor ; in dirt and ignorance ! That's what the master had said. And he'd added that the Outsiders were afraid of Aryans. That's why they persecuted them. John was seeing the full majesty of Upper City now, the spacious walks and busy drives and sun-filled buildings. And he couldn't help wondering why his people refused Integration. He suddenly realized that the car had filled with passengers, with Outsiders. He also realized that the twin seat next to his was just about the only one left in the jammed car. He felt his face stiffen, felt the hatred rise in his blood; and then the girl flounced up the aisle and hesitated, looking at him. She sat down. Not more than sixteen, John thought. Just right for him. And she sure was cute. Lovely golden skin -- He stopped the thoughts there. It wasn't right to think that way. The master at Race-Through-God wouldn't approve. Not that John attended church regularly, as he'd told the Blast back in York. But still, such thoughts weren't right. They smacked of Integration. He kept his head still, but flicked his eyes around the crowded car. They'd made another stop, and now Outsiders were standing. They didn't seem to resent him, or, for that matter, pay him any particular attention. It was just that he felt different, and that made him angry, and that led to his standing up and moving to the port and getting off at the next corner -- all this instead of being sensible and staying on the snake until it returned to the span and York. But even as he stepped into the street, he was remembering how that girl had looked, with her big brown eyes and dark hair and golden skin. He muttered, "Damned, nonAryan, foul-blood Outsiders!" Then walked quickly down the street when he realized he'd used terms of racial-superiority. Getting picked up here for profanity wouldn't be fun. He'd get six months in Reeducation House for sure. Upper City was clean, fragrant and beautiful, but John Stevens wasn't enjoying himself. He was filled with nagging irritation, growing angrier by the second without knowihg exactly why. He began to search the eyes of people passing by -- well-dressed Outsiders in their one-piece coroplast suits, colors ranging through all the hues of the rainbow. He felt shabby in his old brown plasts. Those eyes seemed to be sneering at him. They seemed to be looking at him with disgust and contempt. He was about to turn around and go back to the snake stop, about to obey the warning bell that had begun ringing in his brain, when it happened. It wasn't much, and yet it was the last straw -- the one that broke the normal behavior patterns and left him at the mercy of his own emotions. A young woman, sleek and wellgroomed, was passing with a little boy of about five. The child stopped dead on seeing John. In spite of himself, John stopped too. The child stared at John, eyes wide and filled with wonder. "Mommy!" he shrilled. "Mommy, look at him!" The woman tried to hush her son, to drag him away, but the child eluded her grasp and danced back, still staring at John. "Look at him. Mommy! What a funny color -- " John raised his hand as if to strike the child. He didn't mean it, not really, but he wanted to stop that high-pitched voice, stop those amazed eyes from examining him. The child screamed and ran to his mother. The mother shrank back, enfolding the little boy in her arms, and shouted, "Help! Help me, please!" John turned and ran, almost into the arms of a tall Blast. He stopped, whirled around, and headed back past the woman and child. He cut left at the next corner, ran faster than ever before in his life, cut right, and left, and kept going until the breath rasped through his throat like liquified metal. But even as he ran, he was without fear. He was too angry now to be frightened. And it was anger such as he'd never before experienced. A sickening, confusing, red-hazed melange of emotion that had about it a nightmare quality. He had to slow down, and saw that it was all right. He'd lost that Blast, left the entire scene far behind. "Lousy foul-blooded Outsiders!" he panted, and at the same time knew that it wasn't just the Outsiders. It was his mother, and his father, and the slum, and the gangs, and the poverty. It was his life he hated, his life he raged at. This then was the irritation he'd felt in the past weeks, now transformed by Upper City into a maniacal rage. John Stevens was leader of the Adolphs. John Stevens wasn't even close to being the biggest or strongest boy in his crowd. But he was the smartest. And this raw, basic, but still superior intellect worked against him as he stalked the wide avenues of Upper City. A caper, he thought. He'd pull a big caper, return with loot, justify this visit, take out his anger on these people -- these scum who had made his life so poor. Or was it his mother and father who had made his life poor? Was it the masters who had done that? Why had he come here when it brought such confusion, such pain? Another quick change of thought. He blocked everything from his mind but the red haze of rage; fed it, allowed it to grow to the point where it swallowed everything but his desire to strike back. He didn't know where he was, where he was going, and he no longer saw the Outsiders. He had regained his wind now, and began walking quickly, almost running. It was later, much later, when he finally found the right street, and the right vendro, and the focal point for his hatred. Clothing. New, bright, expensive coroplast suits. Eight hundred disks and up! More than his father made in three months. More than John Stevens had ever seen in a lump sum. The street was quiet, empty of pedestrians. He walked past the vendro, casing it with eyes that saw nothing but inner hate. Something sane -- something still resisting the never-before-experienced rage -- cried out that he wasn't being smart, that he wasn't checking for Blasts, that he couldn't think straight enough for a caper, especially one in Upper City. But he was back at the vendro now, and he was going inside. There was only the commersh, and an old man magnetting dust from the floor. The commersh was an Outsider, naturally. But the old man was one of York's folk, and this made John Stevens lose whatever grain of caution he might have retained. His folk, slaving for these scum! The commersh was moving toward him, face bland, only his dark eyes showing something other than serenity at seeing a kid from York. "Are you sure you have the right -- " he began, and then gasped as John pulled his knife and snapped the eight-inch blade free of the haft. John pressed the blade against the Outsider's stomach and said, "Five suits, the best, and I'm with you every foul-blood inch of the way!" "Don't, son!" the old man said from the side. "Get out before -- " John half-turned his head, and then felt the numbness strike his body. He stood there, completely rigid for a moment, and then found he could breathe and move his lips and shift his eyes. The commersh stepped back, pressed a red button on the counter. "You Yorkers must be insane," he said mildly. "Do you think we haven't got adequate protection against criminals of our own group, not to say such pitiful amateurs as you? I can paralyze a whole vendro full of people with this little ornament on my wrist." He showed John the metallic strap and small case. "It's six months Re-education House for you." The old man shuffled closer, peered at John, said, "The Blasts will be here soon. You can talk. Tell me your name and I'll get word to your folks and your master. Maybe they can help." The rage was so strong now that John barely heard the old man. He was screaming inside, bellowing insane things that couldn't get through his rigid throat. But the words, "You can talk," penetrated, and he calmed himself. He tried hard, and squeaking sounds came through his lips. He shaped the words, and then had nothing to say. There wasn't anything bad enough, anything that could hurt this Outsider, anything that could penetrate his shield of superiority. And then he remembered the ancient word, the forbidden word, the cardinal sin that meant death if used. He'd heard it one night when his father had gotten hold of enough medicinal prychol for a long drunk, and had ranted and raved against the Outsiders. "Nigger!" John screamed. "Nigblood Niggers! Planets full of lousy Niggers! All alike! All brown! Only we are white! Only we are pure-bloods! Only we aren't Nig -- " The paralysis intensified, everything stopped, he couldn't breathe, he wanted desperately to breathe. And, more than that, in a final instant of clarity, he wanted to say that it was all a mistake -- everything he'd said, everything he'd thought, everything he'd lived by. He too would be a golden brown, his own folk who were the outsiders, but it wasn't their fault either. It was the fault of those few thousand who'd refused Integration when all the rest of Earth's population had decided on mixed breeding as a solution to human conflict. And that was six hundred years ago, and the cults had formed in York, and no one knew how to break the pattern of hatred, envy and fear. But he was falling into a long tube that had no light and had no end. That girl on the snake, that lovely girl with the sweet smell and soft eyes and golden skin, that composite of all the white, black, brown, yellow and red races of Earth would never be his. The space ships and wonderful planets would never be his. Never, he thought, because I am dead. He was wrong. He wasn't dead. He opened his eyes later and vomited and was then hauled to his feet and stripped and given fresh clothing. He was taken by two Outsiders -- only he didn't think of them that way any more, only used the term because he had no others -- was taken by them to a white room and pushed inside and left there alone as the port slid shut. A voice spoke from the smooth you to accept psychiatric treatment." "No," John said automatically. He didn't want his brain touched. There were stories told by the masters -- The voice spoke again. "Very well. You have used the term of of Upper Gity. The Galactic Scroll calls for a penalty of death. However, because of your youth, and probable syndromic history, the sentence is reduced to ten years in Reeducation House. Have you anything to say?" John fought not to cry out. Ten years! That was worse than death! Six months was enough to break a man, and ten years would drive him mad. He'd wanted to say he was ready was anxious for the time when he'd be eligible for Integration, when he'd be sent to another part of Earth and allowed to mingle with the golden-skinned people and so lose his hatreds, fears and tensions. But now he couldn't. Because it wasn't a matter of free choice any longer. It was an escape from terror, from ten years in hell. Later, he was told that this room would be his home for the next ten years. He didn't answer the unseen voice, nor touch the food that was given him through the minor-port. He decided he would use the only means of escape men had ever found in Re-education House. He would starve himself to death. He meant it. away, the thirteen members of more subdued. They'd had an hour of waiting, and an hour of thinking. Each was now wrestling with his conscience, wondering what portion of responsibility was his in the coming decision. Of course, everyone in the Galaxy agreed that York's eight hundred thousand residents had to be eliminated since they were incorrigible race-god fanatics. But now that the moment was almost at hand, sterilization seemed quite drastic, and euthanasia -- To a man, they looked up as Mala entered the chamber. "Most Peaceful Sir," she began, stopping before Commissioner Dobu's chair. But Dobu snatched the transcription from her hand, mumbled over the code-identification and formal introductions, and read the meat of the report in a voice that trembled only slightly. "After years of work, our scientists on Centauri Two have produced the answer to the York probnew geneological agent is en route to Earth, York Sector, for immediate administration to the white population. The effect produced by induction of this agent into the bloodstream will be an instantaneous change of pigmentation to accepted norm, and subsequent loss of racial tension. Change is permanent, and will be transmitted to offspring. Administration will be initiated by paralysis of entire white population, said method to be launched immediately. Shipment of geneological agent should arrive Bunche Spaceport, # hundred hours, day-this-report. Within five days after change of pigmentation, population of York is to be separated into family units and sent to as many different Galactic sectors as is possible. This order applies to all white residents, not excluding those found outside of York, or those in re-education institutions." John Stevens didn't hear the shout that went up from thirteen relieved and delighted men. He was entering the second hour of his fast unto the death. He couldn't know that he'd fail to complete a single day of it.   # And Gant twisted. He palmed the younger man with two deft blows, throat and plexus. Saxon slumped, retching. Gant stood above him, his smile strained. "Amateur," he panted. "I was instructing hand tactics before you were bom." He took out his blaster. "They've infected you," he said compassionately. "I'm sorry, lad. You'll get a posthumous decoration." The blaster came up, steadied. Then Gant stood very still, a whitehaired statue. Mentor came around the ship and helped Saxon to his feet. "Destroying guests is forbidden," the robot clicked. "The concept is irrational." L ater, in the shadows of the farmhouse that was not a farmhouse, Saxon watched the scout disappear into the sky. He turned towards Veena. "You're letting him go?" "Mentor -- treated him," she said dreamily. "He'll report that you destroyed the colony, died in the process, and this planet is unfit for further colonization. Incidentally, the council voted in the affirmative. Otherwise you'd be with Gant." Aliens, playing a game with their ape-brother. Recognizing him at first glance, speaking his language, making him feel wanted, at home. Why? He was afraid to ask the question. "We're on a vacation," Veena said. "We've only been here for one generation. We were due to return almost thirty years ago, but we found your colony." "Did you -- " "Isolation," she murmured. "The ghetto. They're sick," she said. "Infected with the culture plague. We couldn't leave them and we couldn't help them." Her gaze was very steady. "Until you came." It came to him. Man, clutching at the knees of Gods, envying, striving futilely, finally hating. Only Man can help Man. "It's not fair, Saxon breathed. He took Veena by the shoulders, made her look at him. "I'm happy here. You and Lang -- Merl -- I'm just beginning to learn! Fd hoped that in a few years -- " "We are not human," Veena said gently. "And our life span is four hundred of your years." For the first time, he noticed the faint malformation of her ears, the subtle differences in facial bone structure. He glanced past her, saw Lang and Merl waiting in the doorway. "It will mean months of study." she said. "You have so much to unlearn, to understand. They may reject you, sacrifice you. That will not matter. What does matter is your impact on their culture, what it will mean a thousand generations hence." Diseased apes, with a touch of Godhood, suffering from an infection that might be forever incurable. Why should he be the sacrifice? Who was he, to help them? Looking at Veena, he knew the answer.    Tomorrow's menu may consist of four week old meat, six month old bread and vegetables that are several years old. Scientists working in atomic laboratories forecast that atomic radiation will keep such foods unspoiled without the necessity of sub-zero freezing. They've preserved such foodstuffs successfully with radiation treatments. And though there are still drawbacks to using the technique commercially, they predict the day is coming. Another step forward in the application of atomic energy is being made at the nuclear reactor pile at Harwell, England, where they are using atomic radiation to vulcanize rubber. Oxidation is not a factor in this process; energy alone is responsible for this faster change in the structure of the rubber. Students applying for entrance to Universities may, in the future, be rated by the measurement of their body build as well as by intelligence tests, aptitude tests and entrance examinations. Called somatyping, this body build typing was recently used to study the relationship between physical configuration and mental ability in a group of English university students. Physical features, such as being muscled or fat or lean, were found to promote or handicap the efficiency of the mental equipment to a surprising degree. Such typing may give information on academic failure and allied problems of mental disturbance; and performance not only in school, but in industry, the armed forces and life itself may be predicted to some extent. Mineral fibers may be used for aircraft wings and bodies in the near future. A technique developed at a Japanese University uses materials such as basalt and aqueous rock to form these mineral "threads". They are melted down and poured on a slit revolving disk. A fiber is formed through centrifugal force with the aid of a current of air. The addition of this fiber to cement makes it ten times stronger than steel. Further processing -- into polyester resins -- could make it usable in place of all types of light metals. Pianists may soon be able to carry their instruments with them, with no more trouble than a bass player has. A stringless instrument which has an electronic tone production system and never needs tuning has been perfected. Used with earphones, no one but the player hears the music, but grand piano volume is attained by plugging the piano into a radio or TV set. The eighty pound unit has detachable, folding legs and can be carried quite easily in the back seat of a car. Man # years from now, according to Dr. W. M. Krogman of the University of Pennsylvania, will be the product of an evolution directed by the science of genetics. The brain will be highly improved so that each mind will be both a sending and receiving set of direct thought communication. The span of life will be between # and # years, and all of life will go at a much slower pace. Less muscular activity and a lessening of the oxygen in the atmosphere (which is going on even now) will make man burn up his food more slowly, in order to adapt to the change. Man will be a well adapted biped, with hands able to fashion more detailed intricate instruments of precision, and feet reduced to flat, more or less circular bases for legs which are no more than pedestals for the trunk and head. Ultrasonic waves of a frequency of # cycles a second, fifty times higher than the highest audible pitch, are the latest idea for operations requiring precise surgery. The beam is sent through a salt solution in contact with both sound source and the brain tumor or diseased tissue. With a precision far beyond the surgeon's knife, it destroys an area as small as onetwentieth of an inch in diameter without affecting tissue around, above or beyond the immediate spot. Depth of the tumor or cancerous tissue within the body or brain will not be of any consequence when the tool is perfected. Mars has long been the planet most likely to bear life, but astronomers are now claiming that Venus is much more likely to be "life bearing". The thick cloud layer surrounding our sister planet has been shown to have the same optical properties as terrestrial clouds, hence it is probably condensed water vapor. If this is so, there should be water over the whole surface of the planet otherwise protruding rocks would soon absorb practically all the carbon dioxide. However this hasn't happened, for spectroscopic observations prove beyond a shadow of a doubt that carbon dioxide is extremely abundant in the atmosphere of Venus. This new picture of an ocean covered planet, makes life on Venus more plausible than ever before. Hutchings Goddard. # -- Angstrom. # -- All are sub-atomic particles. #I -- Eleven. # -- Parahelic circle. # -- #. # -- # miles an hour. # -- #. #. Percival Lowell. # -- #, #. # -- # pounds. # -- Spiral Galaxies. # -- #. There IS a Time when Your Luck Will Change! 'And there shall be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the nations, with perplexity; the sea and the waves roaring; Mens hearts failing them for fear, and for looking after those things which are coming on the earth...St. Luke #:#, #. When the Bible was written prophecy was an outstanding feature of this greatest of all books. Today many scoff at predictions, yet -- the Biblical prophecy written # years ago that the Jews would reestablish a new nation of Israel, has just come true! Today we know that there are "cycles" when wars and world problems reach fanatical heights -- then changes come. Marguerite Carter has given her life to study, keeping records that may be used to help mankind. Of one thing you may be sure, she is honest and to be trusted! This amazing woman predicted, long before, the coming order of nations in World War II. In # when Russia was struggling for survival, she said: "We shall find it necessary to sit down equally at the peace table with Russia and concede to her wishes. Only very shrewd maneuvering will prevent her being the completely dominant power in Europe." This has come true! Now -- she says -- "This is the time of many small wars, quarrels in families and sudden home changes. Through it all, the United States will advance to unbelievable power and sound financial strength. For many, many people there will be completely new fields of work!" Test Miss Carters accuracy for the greatest help you personally have ever known. Get "your" forecast for the next twelve months. Send your complete birthday -- month, date, and year, the hour of your birth (if known), and the place -- with a remittance of # for your forecast which will include Miss Cartels special notations showing 'Outstanding Indications: Allow three weeks for proper, careful attention. Address: Marguerite Carter, #I Jackson Bldg., Indianapolis #, Indiana. sen fieri continued from other side fUfln Will fly !o IheMoonSoon! and Problems of Conquering Space A t last! The world's top space research scientists reveal their plans for the conquest of space. You see their actual diagrams for a "round-the-moon" ship designed to travel in space only. You get a detailed preview of the first flight to the moon... blueprints for a #-stage chemically propelled Rocket Ship... actual plans for a Giant Space Station to launch moon ships -- # miles above the earth! "Across The Space Frontier" is the most comprehensive study of interplanetary travel ever published. Written by not one experts including: Dr. Wernher Von Braun, Willy Eey, Dr. Heinz Haber, Dr, Joseph Kaplan. of these new masterpieces of decidel tion above. who becomes her own daughter... atomic power from beans... and many other stories. -- The world is about to end. Everywhere people are fighting to get on "lifeships" # will escapel of Wonders of Earth and Man... of visitors from Outer Space... Worlds of Tomorrow. # pages. movie machine that shows "newsreels" of any pastevent. Plus more than a score of other best tales. by Hal Clement -- Charles the planet Mesklin. But the force of gravMty there is so powerful a fall of even a few inches can crush a human body to powder, i "  ' Edgar Pangborn -- Angelo Pontevecchio can destroy the earth -- or he can save it. But the Jerry Sohl -- # A. D. Scientists can restore dead men to life! But when Bradley Kempton is restored -- he finds himself imprisonerl in the body of an insane killer! Fiction masterpieces described here -- AT Round-Trip Reservation To The Moon. (See Other Side.) Two books are your gift for joining, and one is your first Club selection. Every month, you will be offered the "cream " of the new # and # Science-Fiction books -- for only #. You take only those books you really want -- as few as four a year. This offer may have to be withdrawn. So mail Dept. IF#, Garden City, N. Y. Please rush the # books checked below, as my gift books and first selection. Bill me only I for all # (plus small shipping Round-Trii)-To-The-Moon Reservation, hvery month send the Club's free bulletin, "Things to Come," ,o that I may decide whether I wish to receive tlie coming selection. For each book I accept, I will pay only I plus shiiping. I do not have to take a book every month (only four during each year I am a member) -- and I may resign at any time after accepting four selections. may return all books in # days, pay nothing and this membershij) will be cancelled.  Across the Space Frontier  Mirror for Observers  Altered Ego  Mission of Gravity  Astounding Anthology  Omnibus of Science  Best from Fantasy  Fiction Science Fiction  One in Three Hundred (please print) Address City Zone Stale Selection price in Canada # plus shipping Address Science-Fiction Club, # Bond St., Toronto # O ffer good only in U. S. and Canada)  # N Ownibm # SCltNct ,LLI'on Yes, ir True -- A Bona Fide Opportunity to Have Your Name On File" with the First Company Embarking on Commercial Flights to The Moon! And, as A New Member of The Science-Fiction Book Club, and the coupon on the other side of this page to become a New Member of The Science-F'iction Book Club... and receive your bona fide Moon-Tour that you are among the first to apply for a reservation to the moon. It will in no way commit you to make the voyage. It simply means that your name is being held on file to be turned over to the first commercial company making trips to the moon. Your personal reservation will include fascinating facts to amaze your friends: your actual weight on the moon... a Rocket-Ship Schedule. Like your interest in Science-Fiction books, your hard-back wallet-size reservation will be evidence of your adventurous spirit... your imagination... your interest in the world of tomorrow -- and your recognition of the limitless wonders of modern sciexciting books shown here and described on the other side -- for only #. Fill out the coupon on other side to become a New Member of the ScienceFiction Book Club -- and receive your Round-Trip-To-The-Moon Reservation continued on inside cover Moon Tour Reservations, Secretary Science-Fiction Book Club membershi Please rush me my Moon Reservation. My Reservation, which will be printed on a handy, wallet-size card, will include my actual Moon weight and a complete Rocket-Ship Flight Schedule for the Moon, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn. I will in no way be committed to make a voyage. Honored Unless Filled Out and Signed on The Reverse Side.  car of the future through the air also drive it along the surface by transferring power to wheel locomotion. On the surface, the wings collapse and fold back into the body, giving it a "teardrop", streamlined effect. There are three wheels, two in front and a single drive-wheel in the rear, with the three wheels forming a wide triangle. The "run-about" shown here holds two passengers. All Stories New and Complete Cover by Mel Hunter Lunascape I I # I # I # I i Automobiles of the Future i IF is published monthly by Quinn Publishing Company, Inc. Volume #, No I Copyright # by Quinn Publishing Co., Inc. Ofhce of publication, # Lord Street' Buffalo, New York. Entered as Second Class Matter at Post Office, Buffalo, New York. Subscription # for # issues in U.S. and Possessions; Canada # for # issues; elsewhere #. Allow four weeks for nge of address. All stories appearing in this marine are fiction; any similarity to actual persons is coincidental. Not responsible lor unsolicited artwork or manuscripts. #c a copy. Printed in U.S.A. Next issue on sale February # th the first two winning stories in IP's recent College Science Fiction Contest with the theme: "What Will America Be Like # Years From Now?" The first-prize story "And Gone Tomorrow" (December issue), by a student at the University of Louisville, prophesied a world dictatorship, with a caesar akin to the old style Roman emperors. And there were several other manuscripts based on the same premise -- that the United States would some day be a dictatorship itself, or part of one. These youngsters were extrapolating on present day events, and to do this one must be keenly aware of political and economic trends. And their prediction of a dictatorship for the U.S.A. comes uncannily close to the mark, for dictatorship -- and there is no good or benevolent one -- is looming all too closely on the horizon. It won't even be # years from now. It could be in your time and in my time. The first step in this all too possible autocracy will take place this year -- for this is the year the heads of the A.F.L. and the C.I.O. will decide whether or not to merge their strength and become one gigantic union. From their point of view this would be an ideal set-up, and it is likely that the merger will go through unless something is done to stop it. The influence which unions all over the country now have in our state and national governments is blatantly obvious. Political candidates curry favor with unions and union members for their votes and for their contributions to the coffers of the election funds. This wedge of votes and money has opened the way for pro-union legislation which puts these huge groups in the driver's seat in both government and industry. Mind you, this state of affairs exists now, when there is decentralization of union power; imagine what it will be like when one organization can control the votes, bers who directly or indirectly affect the lives and living of every hutnan person in the nation! If a merger such as this goes through, it would involve something like # C.I.O. and A.F.L. members alone, and affect practically every industry in the United States. With such influence as this in operation, it is reasonable to assume that independent unions, bers, will jump on the bandwagon. The whole movement will become a huge free-rolling steamroller with one man, or a small group of men, holding the wheel. I believe in unionism, when there is honesty and integrity; I also believe in good government. But there can't be sound, unhampered government when a union is so large that it can bring the industrial might of a nation the size of the United States to a standstill. For example, smaller organizations have been able to cripple shipping on both the Atlantic and Pacific coasts with dock strikes; the steel industry, and all the industries that depend on steel such as aircraft, automotive, and ship building plants, were brought to a halt by a strike of steel workers not too long ago. Textile mills, electronic laboratories, coal mines, transportation, even the atomic laboratories at Oak Ridge have come to a standstill at one time or another through the medium of strikes. The pressure that can be brought to bear when such a strike affects something as vital as the national defense (as in the case of the atomic workers strike) is so great that even the decentralized set-up we have now is too powerful for the good of the nation. It isn't too difficult to imagine then, how a vast octopus-like union, able to pull a strike in all industries at once, could wreck the Ship of State. The heads of such a union would have more power than the President of the United States; such all-powerful men could demand anything they wished -- and get it; they could get the men of their choice elected to the senate and congress and the White House. Not only could they control the reins of government with their voting blocs, but they could also physically control the country's industries and thus the actual livelihood of the entire population of the United States. There is another factor to consider. Labor unions have had a tough fight to gain recognition, and the leaders of these unions have been trained in hard schools. But such training hasn't lessened the fact that men who have emerged as leaders may very easily have feet of clay... and that personal ideology and whim may sometimes have a far reaching effect. For such is the nature of man when he has unlimited power. A dictatorship is the next easy step. The power of unions is so great already that the President of the United States, the members of Congress and the Senate may even now find that their political lives are in jeopardy if they voice opposition to the proposed merger. Let us hope, however, that political leaders will realize what this merger means, and put the welfare of #ie nation before their own and see to it that immediate legislation is passed to break up this centralization of union power. Let us hope that the union members themselves have the insight to realize what an uncontrollable monster they may be hatching, and that they will have the guts to place their country before their jobs and fight to preserve the democratic form of government under which this nation has prospered. I would be the last to deny that unions have done more good than evil, that the working man needed (Continued on page #) Problem: The future must be changed!... For he was a throwback from the future, this old man, veteran of war yet to come; war in which Earth was annihilated... Illustrated by Kelly Freas T he old man sat on the park bench in the bright hot sunlight and watched the people moving back and forth. The park was neat and clean; the lawns glittered wetly in the spray piped from a hundred shiny copper tubes. A polished robot gardner crawled here and there, weeding and plucking and gathering waste debris in its disposal slot. Children scampered and shouted. Young couples sat basking sleepily and holding hands. Groups of handsome soldiers strolled lazily along, hands in their pockets, admiring the tanned, naked girls sunbathing around the pool. Beyond the park the roaring cars and towering needle-spires of New York sparkled and gleamed. The old man cleared his throat and spat sullenly into the bushes. The bright hot sun annoyed him; it was too yellow and it made perspiration steam through his seedy. ragged coat. It made him conscious of his grizzled chin and missing left eye. And the deep ugly burn-scar that had seared away the flesh of one cheek. He pawed fretfully at the h-loop around his scrawny neck. He unbuttoned his coat and pulled himself upright against the glowing metal slats of the bench. Bored, lonely, bitter, he twisted around and tried to interest himself in the pastoral scene of trees and grass and happily playing children. Three blond-faced young soldiers sat down on the bench opposite him and began unrolling picnic lunch-cartons. The old man's thin rancid breath caught in his throat. Painfully, his ancient heart thudded, and for the first time in hours he came fully alive. He struggled up from his lethargy and focussed his dim sight on the soldiers. The old man got out his handkerchief, mopped his sweat-oozing face, and then spoke to them. "Nice afternoon." The soldiers glanced up briefly. "Yeah," one said. "They done a good job." The old man indicated the yellow sun and the spires of the city. "Looks perfect." The soldiers said nothing. They concentrated on their cups of boiling black coffee and apple pie. "Almost fools you," the old man went on plaintively. "You boys with the seed teams?" he hazarded. "No," one of them said. "We're rocketeers." The old man gripped his aluminum cane and said, "I was in demolition. Back in the old Ba-# Squad." None of the soldiers responded. They were whispering among themselves. The girls on a bench farther down had noticed them. The old man reached into his coat pocket and brought out something wrapped in gray torn tissuepaper. He unfolded it with shaking fingers and then got to his feet. Unsteadily, he crossed the gravel path to the soldiers. "See this?" He held out the object, a small square of glittering metal. "I won that back in '#. That was before your time, I guess." A flicker of interest momentarily roused the young soldiers. "Hey," one whistled appreciatively. "That's a Crystal Disc -- first class." He raised his eyes questioningly. "You won that?" The old man cackled proudly, as he wrapped up the medal and restored it to his coat pocket. "I served under Nathan West, in the Wind Giant, It wasn't until the final jump they took against us I got mine. But I was out there with my d-squad. You probably remember the day we set off our network, rigged all the way from -- " "Sorry," one of the soldiers said vaguely. "We don't go back that far. That must have been before our time." "Sure," the old man agreed eagerly. "That was more than sixty years ago. You heard of Major Perati, haven't you? How he rammed their covering fleet into a meteor cloud as they were converging for their final attack? And how the Ba-# was able to hold them back months before they finally slammed us?" He swore bitterly. "We held them off. Until there wasn't more'n a couple of us left. And then they came In like vultures. And what they found they -- "Sorry, Pop." The soldiers had got lithely up, collected their lunches, and were moving toward the bench of girls. The girls glanced at them shyly and giggled in anticipation. "We'll see you some other time." The old man turned and hobbled furiously back to his own bench. Disappointed, muttering under his breath and spitting into the wet bushes, he tried to make himself comfortable. But the sun irritated him; and the noises of people and cars made him sick. He sat on the park bench, eye half shut, wasted lips twisted in a snarl of bitterness and defeat. Nobody was interested in a decrepit half-blind old man. Nobody wanted to hear his garbled, rambling tales of the battles he had fought and strategies he had witnessed. Nobody seemed to remember the war that still burned like a twisting, corroding fire in the decaying old man's brain. A war he longed to speak of, if he could only find listeners. his car to a halt and slammed on the emergency brake. "That's that," he said over his shoulder. "Make yourselves comfortable. We're going to have a short wait." The scene was familiar. A thousand Earthmen in gray caps and armbands streamed along the street, chanting slogans, waving immense crude banners that were visible for blocks. Jn the back seat of the car Edwin LeMarr put aside his report tapes with a grunt of near-sighted surprise. "Why have we stopped? What is it?" "Another demonstration," Evelyn Cutter said distantly. She leaned back and disgustedly lit a cigarette. "Same as all of them." The demonstration was in full swing. Men, women, youths out of school for the afternoon, marched wild-faced, excited and intense, some with signs, some with crude weapons and in partial uniform. Along the sidewalks more and more watching spectators were being tugged along. Blue-clad policemen had halted surface traffic; they stood watching indifferently, waiting for somebody to try to interfere. Nobody did, of course. Nobody was that foolish. "Why doesn't the Directorate put a stop to this?" LeMarr demanded. "A couple of armored columns would finish this once and for all." Beside him, John V-Stephens laughed coldly. "The Directorate finances it, organizes it, gives it free time on the vidnet, even beats up people who complain. Look at those cops standing over there. Waiting for somebody to beat up." LeMarr blinked. "Patterson, is that true?" Rage-distorted faces loomed up beyond the hood of the sleek '# Buick. The tramp of feet made the chrome dashboard rattle; Doctor LeMarr tugged his tapes nervously into their metal case and peered around like a frightened turtle. "What are you worried about? V-Stephens said harshly. "They wouldn't touch you -- youre an Earthman. I'm the one who should be sweating." "They're crazy," LeMarr muttered. "All those morons chanting and marching -- " "They're not morons," Patterson answered mildly. "They're just too trusting. They believe what they're told, like the rest of us. The only trouble is, what they're told isn't true." He indicated one of the gigantic banners, a vast #-D photograph that twisted and turned as it was carried forward. "Blame him. He's the one who thinks up the lies. He's the one who puts the pressure on the Directorate, fabricates the hate and violence -- and has the funds to sell it." The banner showed a stembrowed white-haired gentleman, clean-shaven and dignified. A scholarly man, heavy-set, in his late fifties. Kindly blue eyes, firm jawline, an impressive and respected dignitary. Under his handsome portrait was his personal slogan, coined in a moment of inspiration. "That's Francis Gannet," VStephens said to LeMarr. "Fine figure of a man, isn't he?" He corrected himself. "Of an ariman." "He looks so genteel," Evelyn Cutter protested. "How could an intelligent-looking man like that have anything to do with this?" V-Stephens bellowed with taut laughter. "His nice clean white hands are a lot filthier than any of those plumbers and carpenters marching out there." "But why -- " "Gannet and his group own Transplan Industries, a holding company that controls most of the export-import business of the inner worlds. If my people and the Martian people are given their independence they'll start cutting into his trade. They'll be competition. But as it stands, they're bottled up in a cold-decked mercantile system." The demonstrators had reached an intersection. A group of them dropped their banners and sprouted clubs and rocks. They shouted orders, waved the others on, and then headed grimly for a small modem building that blinked the word "Oh, God," Patterson said. "They're after the Color-Ad office." He grabbed at the door handle, but V-Stephens stopped him. "You can't do anything," V-Stephens said. "Anyhow, nobody's in there. They usually get advance warning." The rioters smashed the plateplastic windows and poured into the swank little store. The police sauntered over, arms folded, enjoying the spectacle. From the ruined front office, smashed furniture was tossed out onto the sidewalk. Files, desks, chairs, vidscreens, ashtrays, even gay posters of happy life on the inner worlds. Acrid black fingers of smoke curled up as the store room was ignited by a hotbeam. Presently the rioters came streaming back out, satiated and happy. Along the sidewalks, people watched with a variety of emotions. Some showed delight. Some a vague curiosity. But most showed fear and dismay. They backed hurriedly away as th# wild-faced rioters pushed brutally past them, loaded down with stolen goods. "See?" Patterson said. "This stuff is done by a few thousand, a Committee Gannet's financing. Those in front are employees of Gannet's factories, goon squads on extracurricular duty. They try to sound like Mankind, but they aren't. They're a noisy minority, a small bunch of hard-working fanatics." The demonstration was breaking up. The Color-Ad office was a dismal fire-gutted ruin; traffic had been stopped; most of downtown New York had seen the lurid slogans and heard the tramp of feet and shouted hate. People began drifting back into offices and shops, back to their daily routine. And then the rioters saw the Venusian girl, crouched in the locked and bolted doorway. forward. Bucking and grinding savagely, it hurtled across the street and up on the sidewalk, toward the running knot of dark-faced hoods. The nose of the car caught the first wave of them and tossed them like leaves. The rest collided with the metal hull and tumbled down in a shapeless mass of struggling arms and legs. The Venusian girl saw the car sliding toward her -- and the Earthpeople in the front seat. For a moment she crouched in paralyzed terror. Then she turned and scurried off in panic, down the sidethat filled up the street. The rioters regrouped themselves and in an instant were after her in full cry. "Get the webfoot!" "Webfoots back to their own planet!" "Earth for Earthmen!" And beneath the chanted slogans, the ugly undercurrent of imverbalized lust and hate. Patterson backed the car up and onto the street. His fist clamped savagely over the horn, he gunned the car after the girl, abreast with the loping rioters and then past them. A rock crashed off the rearview window and for an instant a hail of rubbish banged and clattered. Ahead, the crowd separated aimlessly, leaving an open path for the car and the rioters. No hand was lifted against the desperately running girl as she raced sobbing and panting between parked cars and groups of people. And nobody made a move to help her. Everybody watched dull-eyed and detached. Remote spectators viewing an event in which they had no part. "I'll get her," V-Stephens said. "Pull up in front of her and I'll head her off." Patterson passed the girl and jammed on the brakes. The girl doubled off the street like a terrified hare. V-Stephens was out of the car in a single bound. He sprinted after her as she darted mindlessly back toward the rioters. He swept her up and then plunged back to the car. LeMarr and Evelyn Cutter dragged the two of them in; and Patterson sent the car bucking ahead. A moment later he turned a corner, snapped a police rope, and passed beyond the danger zone. The roar of people, the flap-flap of feet against the pavement, died down behind them. "It's all right," V-Stephens was saying gently and repeatedly to the girl. "We're friends. Look, I'm a webfoot, too." The girl was huddled against the door of the car, green eyes wide with terror, thin face convulsed, knees pulled up against her stomach. She was perhaps seventeen years old. Her webbed fingers scrabbled aimlessly with the tom collar of her blouse. One shoe was missing. Her face was scratched, dark hair dishevelled. From her tremblmg mouth only vague sounds came LeMarr took her pulse. "Her heart's about to pop out of her," he muttered. From his coat he took an emergency capsule and shot a narcotic into the girl's trembling forearm. "That'll relax her. She's not harmed -- they didn't get to her." "It's all right' V-Stephens murmured. "We're doctors from the City Hospital, all but Miss Cutter who manages the files and records. Dr. LeMarr is a neurologist. Dr. Patterson is a cancer specialist, I'm a surgeon -- see my hand?" He traced the girl's forehead with his surgeon's hand. "And I'm a Venusian, like you. We'll take you to the hospital and keep you there for awhile." 'T)id you see them?" LeMarr sputtered. "Nobody lifted a finger to help her. They just stood there." "They were afraid," Patterson said, "They want to avoid trouble." "They can't," Evelyn Cutter said flatly. "Nobody can avoid this kind of trouble. They can't keep standing on the sidelines watching. This isn't a football game." "What's going to happen?" the girl quavered. "You better get off Earth," V-Stephens said gently. "No Venusian is safe here. Get back to your own planet and stay there until this thing dies down." "Will it?" the girl gasped. "Eventually." V-Stephens reached down and passed her Evelyn's cigarette. "It can't go on like this. We have to be free." "Take it easy," Evelyn said in a dangerous voice. Her eyes faded to hostile coals. "I thought you were above all this." V-Stephens dark green face flushed. "You think I can stand idly by while my people are killed and insulted, and our interests passed over, ignored so paste-faces like Gannet can get rich on blood squeezed from -- " "Paste-face," LeMarr echoed wonderingly. "What's that mean, Vachel?" "That's their word for Earthmen," Patterson answered. "Can it, V-Stephens. As far as we're concerned it's not your people and our people. We're all the same race. Your ancestors were Earthmen who settled Venus back in the late twentieth century." "The changes are only minor adaptive alterations," LeMarr assured V-Stephens. "We can still interbreed -- that proves we're the same race." "We can," Evelyn Cutter said thinly. "But who wants to marry a webfoot or a crow?" Nobody said anything for awhile. The air in the car was tense with hostility as Patterson sped toward the hospital. The Venusian girl sat crouched, smoking silently, her terrified eyes on the vibrating floor. Patterson slowed down at the check-point and showed his i.d. tab. The hospital guard signalled the car ahead and he picked up speed. As he put his tab away his fingers touched something clipped to the inside of his pocket. Sudden memory returned. "Here's something to take your mind off your troubles," he said to V-Stephens. He tossed the sealed tube back to the webfoot. "Military fired it back this morning. Clerical error. When you're through with it hand it over to Evelyn. It's supposed to go to her, but I got interested." V-Stephens slit open the tube and spilled out the contents. It was a routine application for admission to a Government hospital, stamped with the number of a war-veteran. Old sweat-grimed tapes, papers torn and mutilated throughout the years. Greasy bits of metal foil that had been folded and refolded, stuffed in a shirt pocket, carried next to some filthy, hair-maUed chest. "Is this important?" VStephens asked impatiently. "Do we have to worry over clerical trifles?" Patterson halted the car in the hospital parking lot and turned off the motor. "Look at the number on the application," he said, as he pushed open the car door. "When you have time to examine it you'll find something unusual. The applicant is carrying around an old veteran's i.d. card -- with a number that hasn't been issued yet." LeMarr, hopelessly baffled, looked from Evelyn Cutter to VStephens, but got no explanation. T he old man's h-loop awoke him from a fitful slumber. "David Unger," the tinny female voice repeated. "You are wanted back at the hospital. It is requested that you return to the hospital immediately." The old man grunted and pulled himself up with an effort. Grabbing his aluminum cane he hobbled away from his sweat-shiny bench, toward the escape ramp of the park. Just when he was getting to sleep, shutting out the too-bright sun and the shrill laughter of children and girls and young soldiers... At the edge of the park two shapes crept furtively into the bushes. David Unger halted and stood in disbelief, as the shapes glided past him along the path. His voice surprised him. He was screaming at the top of his lungs, shrieks of rage and revulsion that echoed through the park, among the quiet trees and lawns. foots! he wailed. He began to run clumsily after them. "Webfoots and crows! Help! Somebody help!" Waving his aluminum cane, he hobbled after the Martian and Venusian, panting wildly. People appeared, blank-faced with astonishment. A crowd formed, as the old man hurried after the terrified pair. Exhausted, he stumbled against a drinking fountain and half-fell, his cane sliding from his fingers. His shrunken face was livid; the burn-scar stood out sick and ugly against the mottled skin. His good eye was red with hate and fury. From his wasted lips saliva drooled. He waved his skinny claw-like hands futilely, as the two altereds crept into the grove of cedars toward the far end of the park. "Stop them!" David Unger slobbered. "Don't let them get away! What's the matter with you? You bunch of lily-white cowards. What kind of men are you?" "Take it easy. Pop," a young soldier said good-naturedly. "They're not hurting anybody." Unger retrieved his cane and whooshed it past the soldier's head. "You -- talker" he snapped. "What kind of a soldier are you?" A fit of coughing choked off his words; he bent double, struggling to breathe. "In my day," he managed to gasp, "we poured rocket fuel on them and strung them up. We mutilated them. We cut up the dirty webfoots and crows. We showed them." A looming cop had stopped the pair of altereds. "Get going," he ordered ominously. "You things got no right here." The two altereds scuttled past him. The cop leisurely raised his stick and cracked the Martian across the eyes. The brittle, thinshelled head splintered, and the Martian careened on, blinded and in agony. "That's more like it," David Unger gasped, in weak satisfaction. "You evil dirty old man," a woman muttered at him, face white with horror. "It's people like you that make all this trouble." "What are you?" Unger snapped. "A crow-lover?" The crowd melted and broke. Unger, grasping his cane, stumbled toward the exit ramp, muttering curses and abuse, spitting violently into the bushes and shaking his head. He arrived at the hospital groimds still trembling with rage and resentment. "What do you want?" he demanded, as he came up to the big receiving desk in the center of the main lobby. "I don't know what's going on around here. First you wake me out of the first real sleep I've had since I got here, and then what do I see but two webfoots walking around in broad daylight, sassy as -- " "Doctor Patterson wants you," the nurse said patiently. "Room #." She nodded to a robot. "Take Mr. Unger down to #." The old man hobbled sullenly after the smoothly-gliding robot. "I thought all you tinmen were used up in the Europa battle of '#," he complained. "It don't make sense, all these lily-white boys in uniforms. Everybody wandering around having a good time, laughing and diddling girls with nothing better to do than lie aroimd on the grass naked. Something's the matter. Something must be -- " "In here, sir," the robot said, and the door of #I slid away. Vachel Patterson rose slightly as the old man entered and stood fuming and gripping his aluminum cane in front of the work-desk. It was the first time he had seen David Unger face to face. Each of them sized the other up intently; the thin hawk-faced old soldier and the well-dressed young doctor, black thinning hair, hom-rimmed glasses and good-natured face. Beside his desk Evelyn Cutter stood watching and listening impassively, a cigarette between her red lips, blonde hair swept back. "I'm Doctor Patterson, and this is Miss Gutter." Patterson toyed with the dog-eared, eroded tape strewn across his esk. "Sit down, Mr. Unger. I want to ask you a couple of questions. Some uncertainty has come up regarding one of your papers. A routine error, probably, but they've come back to me. Unger seated himself warily. "Questions and red tape. Fve been here a week and every day it's something. Maybe I should have just laid there in the street and died." "You've been here eight days, according to this." "I suppose so. If it says so there, must be true." The old man's thin sarcasm boiled out viciously. "Couldn't put it down if it wasn't true." "You were admitted as a war veteran. All costs of care and maintenance are covered by the Directorate." Unger bristled. "What's wrong with that? I earned a little care." He leaned toward Patterson and jabbed a crabbed finger at him. "I was in the Service when I was sixteen. Fought and worked for Earth all my life. Would be there yet, if I hadn't been half killed by that dirty mop-up attack of theirs. Lucky to be alive at all." He selfconsciously rubbed the livid ruin of his face. "Looks like you weren't even in it. Didn't know there was any place got by." Patterson and Evelyn Cutter looked at each other. "How old are you?" Evelyn asked suddenly. "Don't it say?" Unger muttered furiously. "Eighty-nine." "And the year of your birth?" "#. Can't you fire that?" Patterson made a faint notation on the metal foil reports. "And your unit?" At that, Unger broke loose. "The Ba-#, if maybe you've heard of it. Although the way things are around here, I wonder if you know there was ever a war." "The Ba-#," Patterson repeated. "And you served with them how long?" "Fifty years. Then I retired. The first time, I mean. I was sixty-six years old. Usual age. Got my pension and bit of land." "And they called you back?" "Of course they called me back! Don't you remember how the Ba-# went back into the line, all us old guys, and damn near stopped them, that last time? You must have been just a kid, but everybody knows what we did." Unger fumbled out his Crystal Disc first class and slammed it on the desk. "I got that. All us survivors did. All ten of us, out of thirty thousand." He gathered the medal up with shaking fingers. "I was hurt bad. You see my face. Burned, when Nathan West's battleship blew up. I was in the military hospital for a couple years. That was when they cracked Earth wide open." The ancient hands clenched into futile fists. "We had to sit there, watching them turn Earth into a smoking ruin. Nothing but slag and ash, miles of death. No towns, no cities. We sat there, while their C-missiles whizzed by. Finally they got finished -- and got us on Luna, too." Evelyn Cutter tried to speak, but no words came. At his work-desk Patterson's face had turned chalkwhite. "Continue," he managed to mutter. "Go on talking." "We hung on there, subsurface, down under the Copernicus crater, while they slammed their C-missiles into us. We held out maybe five years. Then they started landing. Me and those still left took off in high-speed attack torpedoes. Set up pirate bases among the outer planets." Unger twitched restlessly. "I hate to talk about that part. Defeat, the end of everything. Why do you ask me? I helped build #-#-#, the best artibase of the lot. Between Uranus and Neptune. Then I retired again. Until the dirty rats slid in and leisurely blew it to bits. Fifty thousand men, women, kids. The whole colony." "You escaped?" Evelyn Cutter whispered. "Of course I escaped! I was on patrol. I got one of those webfoot ships. Shot it down and watched them die. It made me feel a little better. I moved over to #-#-#-# for a few years. Until it was attacked. That was early this month. I was fighting with my back to the wall." The dirty yellow teeth glinted in agony. "No place to escape to, that time. None that I knew of." The red-rimmed eye surveyed the luxurious office. "Didn't know about this. You people sure done a good job fBdng up your artibase. Looks almost like I remember the real Earth. A little too fast and bright; not so peaceful as Earth really was. But you even got the smell of the air the same." There was silence. "Then you came here after -- that colony was destroyed?" Patterson asked hoarsely. "I guess." Unger shrugged wearily. "Last I remember was the bubble shattering and the air and heat and grav leaking out. Crow and webfoot ships landing everywhere, Men dying around me. I was knocked out by the concussion. The next thing I knew I was lying out in the street here, and some people were getting me to my feet. A tinman and one of your doctors too'k me here." Patterson let out a deep shuddering breath. "I see." His fingers plucked aimlessly at the eroded, sweat-grimed i.d. papers. "Well, that explains this irregularity." "Ain't it all there? Is something missing?" "All your papers are here. Your tube was hanging around your wrist when they brought you in." "Naturally." Unger's bird-like chest swelled with pride. "I learned that when I was sixteen. Even when you're dead you have to have that tube with you. Important to keep the records straight." "The records are straight," Patterson admitted thickly. "You can go back to your room. Or the park. Anywhere." He waved and the robot calmly escorted the withered old man from the office and out into the hall. As the door slid shut Evelyn Cutter began swearing slowly and monotonously. She crushed out her cigarette with her sharp heel and paced wildly back and forth. "Good God what have we got ourselves into?" Patterson snatched up the intervid, dialed outside, and said to the supraplan monitor, "Get me military headquarters. Right away." "At Luna, sir?" "That's right," Patterson said. "At the main base on Luna." On the wall of the office, past the taut, pacing figure of Evelyn Cutter, the calendar read August #, #. If David Unger was bom in # he would be a boy of fifteen. And he had been bom in #. It said so on his battered, yellowed, sweat-stained cards. On the i.d. papers carried through a war that hadn't yet happened. Patterson said to V-Stephens. "Of a war that won't begin for another month. No wonder his applimachines." V-Stephens licked his dark green lips. "This war will be between Earth and the two colony planets. And Earth will lose?" "Unger fought through the whole war. He saw it from the start to finish -- to the total destruction of Earth." Patterson paced over to the window and gazed out. "Earth lost the war and the race of Earthmen was wiped out." From the window of V-Stephens' office, Patterson could see the city spread out. Miles of buildings, white and gleaming in the lateple. A gigantic center of commerce and industry, the economic hub of the system. And beyond it, a world of cities and farms and highways, thriving, healthy planet, the mother world from which the altereds had originally spmng, the ambitious settlers of Venus and Mars. Endless cargo carriers lumbered between Earth and the colonies, weighed down with minerals and ores and produce. And already, survey teams were poking around the outer planets, laying claim in the Directorate's name to new sources of raw-materials. "He saw all this go up in radioactive dust," Patterson said. "He saw the final attack on Earth that broke our defenses. And then they wiped out the Lunar base." "You say some brass hats are on their way here from Luna?" "I gave them enough of the story to start them moving. It usually takes weeks to stir up those fellows." "I'd like to see this Unger," V-Stephens said thoughtfully. "Is there some way I can -- " "You've seen him. You revived him, remember? When he was originally found and brought in." "Oh," V-Stephens said softly. "That filthy old man?" His dark eyes flickered. "So that's Unger,... The veteran of the war we're going to fight." "The war you're going to win. The war Earth is going to lose." Patterson abruptly left the window. "Unger thinks this is an artificial satellite someplace between Uranus and Neptune. A reconstruction of a small part of New York -- a few thousand people and machines under a plastic dome. He has no conception of what's actually happened to him. Somehow, he must have been hurled back along his time-track." "I suppose the release of energy... And maybe his frantic desire to escape. But even so, the whole thing is fantastic. It has a sort of -- " V-Stephens groped for the word, "a sort of mystic ring to it. What the hell is this, a visitation? A prophet from heaven?" The door opened and V-Rafia slid in. "Oh," she said, as she saw Patterson, "I didn't know -- " "That's all right." V-Stephens nodded her inside his office. "You remember Patterson. He was with us in the car when we picked you up." V-Rafia looked much better than she had a few hours before. Her face was no longer scratched, her hair was back in place, and she had changed to a crisp gray sweater and skirt. Her green skin sparkled as she moved over beside VStephens, still nervous and apprehensive. "I'm staying here," she said defensively to Patterson. "I can't go back out there, not for awhile." She darted a quick glance of appeal at V-Stephens. "She has no family on Earth," V-Stephens explained. "She came here as a Glass-# biochemist. She's been working over at a Westinghouse lab outside Chicago. She came to New York on a shopping trip, which was a mistake." "Can't she join the V-colony at Denver?" Patterson asked. V-Stephens flushed. "You don't want another webfoot around here?" "What can she do? We're not an embattled fortress. There's no reason why we can't shoot her to Denver in a fast freight rocket. Nobody'll interfere with that." "We can discuss it later," VStephens said irritably. "We've got more important things to talk about. You've made a check of Unger's papers? You're certain they're not forgeries? I suppose it's possible this is on the level, but we have to be certain." "This has to be kept quiet," Patterson said urgently, with a glance at V-Rafia. "Nobody on the outside should be brought in." "You mean me?" V-Rafia asked hesitantly. "I guess I better leave." "Don't leave," V-Stephens said, grabbing hold of her arm roughly. "Patterson, you can't keep this quiet. Unger's probably told it to ffity people ; he sits out there on his park bench all day, buttonholing everybody who passes." "What is this?" V-Rafia asked curiously. "Nothing important," Patterson said wamingly. "Nothing important?" VStephens echoed. "Just a little war. Programs for sale in advance." Across his face a spasm of emotion passed, excitement and yearning hunger pouring up from inside him. "Place your bets now. Don't take chances. Bet on a sure thing, sweetheart. After all, it's history. Isn't that right?" He turned toward Patterson, his expression demanding confirmation. "What do you say? I can't stop it -- you can't stop it. Right?" Patterson nodded slowly. "I guess you're right," he said unhappily. And swung with all his strength. He caught V-Stephens slightly to one side, as the Venusian scrambled away. V-Stephens' cold-beam came out; he aimed with shaky fingers. Patterson kicked it from his hands and dragged him to his feet. "It was a mistake, John," he panted. "I shouldn't have showed you Unger's i.d. tube. I shouldn't have let you know." "That's right," V-Stephens managed to whisper. His eyes were blank with sorrow as he focussed on Patterson. "Now I know. Now we both know. Youre going to lose the war. Even if you lock Unger up in a box and sink him to the center of the Earth it's too late. Color-Ad will know as soon as I'm out of here." "They burned down the ColorAd office in New York." "Then I'll find the one in Chicago. Or Baltimore. I'll fly back to Venus, if I have to. I'm going to spread the good news. It'll be hard and long, but we'll win. And you can't do anything about it." "I can kill you," Patterson said. His mind was racing frantically. It wasn't too late. If V-Stephens were contained, and David Unger turned over to the Military -- 'T know what you're thinking," V-Stephens gasped. "If Earth doesn't fight, if you avoid war, you may still have a chance." His green lips twisted savagely. "You think we'd let you avoid war? Not now! Only traitors compromise, according to you. Now it's too late!" "Only too late," Patterson said, "if you get out of here." His hand groped on the desk and found a steel paper weight. He drew it to him -- and felt the smooth tip of the cold-beam in his ribs. "I'm not sure how this thing works," V-Rafia said slowly, "but I guess there's only this one button to press." "That's right," V-Stephens said, with relief. "But don't press it yet. I want to talk to him a few minutes more. Maybe he can be brought around to rationality." He pulled himself gratefully out of Patterson's grip and moved back a few paces, exploring his cut lip and broken front teeth. "You brought this on yourself, Vachel." "This is insane," Patterson snapped, his eyes on the snout of the cold-beam as it wavered in V-Rafia's uncertain fingers. "You expect us to fight a war we know we're going to lose?" "You won't have a choice." V-Stephens' eyes gleamed. "We'll make you fight. When we attack your cities you'll come back atus. It's -- human nature." The first blast of the cold-beam missed Patterson. He floundered to one side and grabbed for the girl's slim wrist. His fingers caught air, and then he was down, as the beam hissed again. V-Rafia retreated, eyes wide with fright and dismay, aiming blindly for his rising body. He leaped up, hands extended for the terrified girl. He saw her fingers twist, saw the snout of the tube darken as the field clicked on. And that W#W all. From the kicked-open door, the blue-clad soldiers caught V-Rafia in a crossfire of death. A chill breath mushroomed in Patterson's face. He collapsed back, arms up frantically, as the frigid whisper glided past him. V-Rafia's trembling body danced briefly, as the cloud of absolute cold glowed around her. Then abruptly she halted as rigid as if the tapetrack of her life had stopped in the projector. All color drained from her body. The bizarre imitation of a still-standing human figure stood silently, one arm raised, caught in the act of futile defense. Then the frozen pillar burst. The expanded cells ruptured in a shower of crystalline particles that were hurled sickeningly into every part of the office. Francis Gannet moved cautiously in behind the troops, red-faced and perspiring. "You're Patterson?" he demanded. He held out his heavy hand, but Patterson didn't take it. "The Military people notified me as a matter of course. Where's this old man?" "Somewhere around," Patterson muttered. "Under guard." He turned toward V-Stephens and briefly their eyes met. "You see?" he said huskily. "This is what happens. Is this what you really want?" "Come on, Mr. Patterson," Francis Gannet boomed impatiently. "I don't have much time to waste. From your description this sounds like something important." "It is," V-Stephens answered calmly. He wiped at the trickle of mouth-blood with his pocket handkerchief. "It's worth the trip from Luna. Take my word for it -- I know T he man who sat on Gannet's right was a lieutenant. He gazed in mute awe at the vidscreen. His young, handsome blond face was alive with amazement as from the bank of gray haze a huge battleship lumbered, one reactor smashed, its forward turrets crumpled, hull twisted open. "Good God," Lieutenant Nathan West said faintly. "That's the Wind Giant. The biggest battleship we have. Look at it -- it's out of commission. Totally disabled." "That will be your ship," Patterson said. "You'll be Commander of it in '# when it's destroyed by the combined Venusian and Martian fleets. David Unger will be serving under you. You'll be killed, but Unger will escape. The few survivors of your ship will watch from Luna as Earth is systematically demolished by C-missiles from Venus and Mars." On the screen, the figures leaped and swirled like fish in the bottom of a dirt-saturated tank. A violent maelstrom surged in the center, a vortex of energy that lashed the ships in vast spasms of motion. The silver Earth ships hesitated, then broke. Flashing black Mars battleships swept through the wide breach -- and the Earth flank was turned simultaneously by the waiting Venusians. Together, they caught the remnants of the Earth ships in a steel pincers and crunched them out of existence. Brief puffs of light, as the ships winked out of being. In the distance, the solemn blue and green orb that was Earth slowly and majestically revolved. Already, it showed ugly pocks. Bomb craters from the C-missiles that had penetrated the defense network. LeMarr snapped off the projector and the screen died. "That ends that brain-sequence. All we can get are visual fragments like this, brief instants that left strong impressions on him. We can't get continuity. The next one takes up years later, on one of the artificial satellites." The lights came on, and the group of spectators moved stiffly to their feet. Gannet's face was a sickly putty-gray. "Doctor LeMarr, I want to see that shot again. That one of Earth." He gestured helplessly. "You know which one I mean." The lights dimmed and again the screen came to life. This time it showed only Earth, a receding orb that fell behind as the highvelocity torpedo on which David Unger rode hurtled toward outer space. Unger had placed himself so his dead world would be visible to the last. Earth was a ruin. Involuntarily, a gasp rose from the group of watching officers. Nothing lived. Nothing moved. Only dead clouds of radioactive ash billowed aimlessly over the crater-pocked surface. What had been a living planet of cinder of ash. Nothing remained but heaps of debris, dispersed and blown dismally across vacant seas by the howling, ceaseless wind. "I suppose some kind of vegetable life will take over," Evelyn Cutter said harshly, as the screen faded and the overhead lights returned. She shuddered violently and turned away. "Weeds, maybe," LeMarr said. "Dark dry weeds poking up through the slag. Maybe some insects, later on. Bacteria, of course. I suppose in time bacterial action will transform the ash into usable years." "Let's face it," Gannet said. "The webfoots and crows will resettle it. They'll be living here on Earth after we're all dead." "Sleeping in our beds?" LeMarr inquired mildly. "Using our bathrooms and sitting in the public waiting rooms and transports?" "I don't understand you," Gannet answered impatiently. He waved Patterson over. "You're sure nobody knows but we here in this room?" "V-Stephens knows," Patterson said. "But he's locked up in the psychotic ward. V-Rafia knew. She's dead." Lieutenant West came over to Patterson. "Could we interview him?" "Yes, where's Unger?" Gannet demanded. "My staff is eager to meet him face to face." "You have all the essential facts," Patterson answered. "You know how the war is going to come out. You know what's going to happen to Earth." "What do you suggest?" Gannet asked warily. "Avoid the war." Gannet shrugged his plump wellfed body. "After all, you can't change history. And this is future history. We have no choice but to go ahead and fight." "At least we'll get our share of them," Evelyn Cutter said icily. "What are you talking about?" LeMarr stuttered excitedly. "You work in a hospital and you talk like that?" The woman's eyes blazed. "You saw what they did to Earth. You saw them cut us to ribbons." "We have to stand above this," LeMarr protested. "If we allow ourselves to get dragged into this hate and violence -- " He appealed to Patterson. "Why is V-Stephens locked up? He's no crazier than she is." "True," Patterson agreed. "But she's crazy on our side. We don't lock up that kind of lunatic." LeMarr moved away from him. "Are you going out and fight, too? Alongside Gannet and his soldiers?" "I want to avoid the war," Patterson said dully. "Can it be done?" Gannet demanded. An avid glow winked briefly behind his pale, blue eyes and then faded out. "Maybe it can be done. Why not? Unger coming back here adds a new element." "If the future can be changed," Gannet said slowly, "then maybe we have a choice of various possibilities. If there're two possible futures there may be an infinite number. Each branching off at a different point." A granite mask slid over his face. "We can use Unger's knowledge of the battles." "Let me talk to him," Lieutenant West interrupted excitedly. "Maybe we can get a clear idea of the webfoot battle-strategy. He's probably gone over the battles in his mind a thousand times.',' "He'd recognize you," Gannet said. "After all, he served imder your command." Patterson was deep in thought. "I don't think so," he said to West. "You're a lot older than David Unger." West blinked. "What do you mean? He's a broken-down old man and I'm still in my twenties." "David Unger is fifteen," Patterson answered. "At this point you're almost twice his age. You're already a commissioned officer on the Lunar policy-level staff. Unger isn't even in the Military Service. He'll volunteer when war breaks out, as a buck private without experience or training. When you're an old man commanding the Wind Giant, David Unger will be a middle-aged nonentity working one of the gun turrets, a name you won't even know." "Then Unger is already alive?" Gannet said, puzzled. "Unger is someplace around, waiting to step onto the stage." Patterson filed the thought away for future study; it might have valuable possibilities. "I don't think he'll recognize you, West. He may never even have seen you. The Wing Giant is a big ship." West quickly agreed. "Put a bugsystem on me, Gannet. So the command staff can have the aud and vid images of what Unger says." light, David Unger sat moodily on his park bench, gnarled fingers gripping his aluminum cane, gazing dully at the passers-by. To his right a robot gardener worked over the same patch of grass again and again, its metallic eye-lenses intently fastened on the wizened, hunched-over figure of the old man. Down the gravel path a group of loitering men sent random comments to the various monitors scattered through the park, keeping the relay system open. A bare-bosomed young woman sunbathing by the pool nodded faintly to a pair of soldiers pacing around the park, within constant sight of David Unger. That morning there were a hundred people in the park. All were integrated elements of the screen surrounding the half-dozing, resentful old man. "All right," Patterson said. His car was parked at the edge of the plot of green trees and lawns. "Remember not to overexcite him. V-Stephens revived him originally. If something goes wrong with his heart we can't get V-Stephens to pump him back." The blond young lieutenant nodded, straightened his immaculate blue tunic and slid onto the sidewalk. He pushed his helmet back and briskly strode down the gravel path, toward the center of the park. As he approached, the lounging figures moved imperceptibly. One by one they took up positions on the lawns, on the benches, in groups here and there aroimd the pool. Lieutenant West stopped at a drinking fountain and allowed the robot water-brain to find his mouth with a jet of ice-cold spray. He wandered slowly away and stood for a moment, arms loose at his sides, vacantly watching a young woman as she removed her clothes and stretched out languidly on a multi-colored blanket. Her eyes shut, red lips parted, the woman relaxed with a grateful sigh. "Let him speak to you first," she said faintly, to the lieutenant standing a few feet from her, one black boot on the edge of a bench. "Don't start the conversation." Lieutenant West watched her a moment longer and then continued along the path. A passing heavy-set man said swiftly in his ear, "Not so fast. Take your time and don't appear to hurry." "You want to give the impression you have all day," a hatchetfaced nurse grated, as she passed him wheeling a baby carriage. Lieutenant West slowed almost to a halt. He aimlessly kicked a bit of gravel from the path into the wet bushes. Hands deep in his pockets he wandered over to the central pool and stood gazing absently into its depths. He lit a cigarette, then bought an ice cream bar from a passing robot salesman. "Spill some on your tunic, sir," the robot's speaker instructed faintly. "Swear and start dabbing at it." Lieutenant West let die ice cream melt in the warm summer sun. When some had dripped down his wrist onto his starched blue tunic he scowled, dug out his handkerchief, dipped it in the pool, and began clumsily to wipe the ice cream away. On his bench, the scar-faced old man watched with his one good eye, gripping his aluminum cane and cackling happily. "Watch out," he wheezed. "Look out there!" Lieutenant West glanced up in annoyance. "You're dripping more," the old man cackled, and lay back in weak amusement, toothless mouth slack with pleasure. Lieutenant West grinned goodnaturedly. "I guess so," he admitted. He dropped the melting halfeaten ice cream bar into a disposal slot and finished cleaning his tunic. "Sure is warm," he observed, wandering vaguely over. "They do a good job," Unger agreed, nodding his bird-like head. He peered and craned his neck, trying to make out the insignia markings on the young soldier's shoulder. "You with the rocketeers?" "Demolition," Lieutenant West said. As of that morning his insignia had been changed. "Ba-#." The old man shuddered. He hawked and spat feverishly into the nearby bushes. "That so?" He half-rose, excited and fearful, as the lieutenant started to move away. "Say, you know, I was in the Ba-# years ago." He tried to make his voice sound calm and casual. "Long before your time." Amazement and disbelief slid over Lieutenant West's handsome blond face. "Don't kid me. Only a couple guys from the old group are still alive. You're pulling my leg." "I was, I was," Unger wheezed, fumbling with trembling haste at his coat pocket. "Say, look at this. Stop a minute and I'll show you something." Reverent and awed, he held out his Crystal Disc. "See? You know what this is?" Lieutenant West gazed down at the medal a long time. Real emotion welled up inside him ; he didn't have to counterfeit it. "Can I examine it?" he asked finally. Unger hesitated. "Sure," he said. "Take it." Lieutenant West took the medal and held it for a long moment, weighing it and feeling its cold surface against his smooth skin. Finally he returned it. "You got that back in '#?" "That's right," Unger said. "You remember?" He returned it to his pocket. "No, you weren't even alive, then. But you heard about it, haven't you?" "Yes," West said. "I've heard about it many times." "And you haven't forgotten? A lot of people forgot that, what we did there." "I guess we took a beating that day," West said. He sat down slowly on the bench beside the old man. "That was a bad day for Earth." "We lost," Unger agreed. "Only a few of us got out of there. I got to Luna. I saw Earth go, piece by piece, until there was nothing left. It broke my heart. I cried until I lay like a dead thing. We were all weeping, soldiers, workmen, standing there helpless. And then they turned their missiles on us." The lieutenant licked his dry lips. "Your Commander didn't get out, did he?" "Nathan West died on his ship," Unger said. "He was the finest Commander in the line. They didn't give him the Wind Giant for nothing." His ancient, withered features dimmed in recollection. "There'll never be another man like West. I saw him, once. Big stem-faced man, wide-shouldered. A giant himself. He was a great old man. Nobody could have done better." West hesitated. "You think if somebody else had been in command -- " "No.'" Unger shrieked. "Nobody could have done better! I've heard it said -- I know what some of those fat-bottomed armchair strategists say. But they're wrong! Nobody could have won that battle. We didn't have a chance. We were out numbered five to one -- two huge fleets, one straight at our middle and the other waiting there like a hungry beast to chew us up and swallow us." "I see," West said thickly. Reluctantly he continued, in an agony of turmoil, "These armchair men, what the hell is it they say? I never listen to the brass." He tried to grin but his face refused to respond. "I know they're always saying we could have won the battle and maybe even saved the Wind Giant y but I -- " "Look here," Unger said fervently, his sunken eye wild and glittering. With the point of his aluminum cane he began gouging harsh, violent ditches in the gravel by his feet. "This line is our fleet. Remember how West had it drawn up? It was a mastermind arranged our fleet, that day. A genius. We held them off for twelve hours before they busted through. Nobody thought we'd have a chance of even doing that." Savagely, Unger gouged another line. "That's die crow fleet." "I see," West muttered. He leaned over so his chest-lens would vid the rough lines in the gravel back to the scanning center in the mobile unit circling lazily overhead. And from there to main headquarters on Luna. "And the webfoot fleet?" Unger glanced cagily at him, suddenly shy. "I'm not boring you, am I? I guess an old man likes to talk. Sometimes I bother people, trying to take up their time." "Go on," West answered. He meant what he said. "Keep drawing -- Fm watching." E velyn cutter paced restlessly around her softly-lit apartment, arms folded, red lips tight with anger. "I don't understand you!" She paused to lower the heavy drapes. "You were willing to kill V-Stephens a little while ago. Now you won't even help block LeMarr. You know LeMarr doesn't grasp what's happening. He dislikes Gannet and he prattles about the interplan community of scientists, our duty to all mankind and that sort of stuff. Can't you see if V-Stephens gets hold of him -- " "Maybe LeMarr is right," Patterson said. "I don't like Gannet either." Evelyn exploded. "They'll destroy us! We can't fight a war with them -- we don't have a chance." She halted in front of him, eyes blazing. "But they don't know that yet. We've got to neutralize LeMarr, at least for awhile. Every minute he's walking around free puts our world in jeopardy. Three suppressed." Patterson was brooding. "I suppose Gannet briefed you on the initial exploration West conducted today." "No results so far. The old man knows every battle by heart, and we lost them all." She rubbed her forehead wearily. "I mean, we will lose them all." With numb fingers she gathered up the empty coffee cups. "Want some more coffee?" Patterson didn't hear her ; he was intent on his own thoughts. He crossed over to the window and stood gazing out until she returned with fresh coffee, hot and black and steaming. "You didn't see Gannet kill that girl," Patterson said. "What girl? That webfoot?" Evelyn stirred sugar and cream into her coffee. "She was going to kill you. V-Stephens would have lit out for Color-Ad and the war would begin." Impatiently, she pushed his coffee cup to him. "Anyhow, that was the girl we saved." "I know," Patterson said. "That's why it bothers me." He took the coffee automatically and sipped without tasting. "What was the point of dragging her from the mob? Gannet' s mob. We're doing Gannet's work. We're employees of Gannet." "So?" "You know what kind of game i he's playing!" Evelyn shrugged. "I'm just being practical. I don't want Earth destroyed. Neither does Gannet -- he wants to avoid the war." "He wanted war a few days ago. When he expected to win." Evelyn laughed sharply. "Of course! Who'd fight a war they knew they'd lose? That's irrational." "Now Gannet will hold off the war," Patterson admitted slowly. "He'll let the colony planets have their independence. He'll recognize Color-Ad. He'll destroy David Unger and everybody who knows. He'll pose as a benevolent peacemaker." "Of course. He's already making plans for a dramatic trip to Venus. A last-minute conference with Color-Ad officials, to prevent war. He'll put pressure on the Directorate to back down and let Mars and Venus sever. He'll be the idol of the system. But isn't that better than Earth destroyed and our race wiped out?" "Now the big machine turns around and roars against war." Patterson's lips twisted ironically. "Peace and compromise instead of hate and destructive violence." Evelyn perched on the arm of a chair and made rapid calculations. "How old was David Unger when he joined the Military?" "Fifteen or sixteen." "When a man joins the Service he gets his i.d. number, doesn't he?" "That's right. So?" "Maybe I'm wrong, but according to my figures -- " She glanced up. "Unger should appear and claim his number, soon. That number will be coming up any day, according to how fast Ae enlistments pour in." A strange expression crossed Patterson's face. "Unger is already alive... A fifteen year old kid. Unger the youth and Unger the senile old war veteran. Both alive at once." Evelyn shuddered. "It's weird. Suppose they ran into each other? There' d be a lot of difference between them." In Patterson's mind a picture of a bright-eyed youth of fifteen formed. Eager to get into the fight. Ready to leap in and kill webfoots and crows with idealistic enthusiasm. At this moment, Unger was moving inexorably toward the recruiting office... And the halfblind, Clipped old relic of eightynine wretched years was creeping hesitantly from his hospital room to his park bench, hugging his aluminum cane, whispering in his raspy, pathetic voice to anyone who would listen. "We'll have to keep our eyes open," Patterson said. "You better have somebody at Military notify you when that number comes up. When Unger appears to claim it." Evelyn nodded. "It might be a good idea. Maybe we should request the Census Department to make a check for us. Maybe we can locate -- " She broke off. The door of the apartment had swung silently open. Edwin LeMarr stood gripping the knob, blinking red-eyed in the halflight. Breathing harshly, he came into the room. "Vachel, I have to talk to you." "What is it?" Patterson demanded. "What's going on?" LeMarr shot Evelyn a look of pure hate. "He found it. I knew he would. As soon as he can get it analyzed and the whole thing down on tape -- " "Gannet?" Cold fear knifed down Patterson's spine. "Gannet found what?" "The moment of crisis. The old man's babbling about a five-ship convoy. Fuel for the crow warfleet. Unescorted and moving toward the battle line. Unger says our scouts will miss it." LeMarr's breathing was hoarse and frenzied. "He says if we knew in advance -- " He pulled himself together with a violent effort. "Then we could destroy it." "I see," Patterson said. "And throw the balance in Earth's favor." "If West can plot the convoy route," LeMarr finished, "Earth will win the war. That means Gannet will fight -- as soon as he gets the exact information." the single-piece bench that served as chair and table and bed for the psychotic ward. A cigarette dangled between his dark green lips. The cube-like room was ascetic, barren. The walls glittered dully. From time to time V-Stephens examined his wristwatch and then turned his attention back to the object crawling up and down the sealed edges of the entrance-lock. The object moved slowly and cautiously. It had been exploring the lock for twenty-nine hours straight; it had traced down the power leads that kept the heavy plate fused in place. It had located the terminals at which the leads joined the magnetic rind of the door. During the last hour it had cut its way through the rexeroid surface to within an inch of the terminals. The crawling, exploring object was V-Stephens' surgeonhand, a self-contained robot of precision quality usually joined to his right wrist. It wasn't joined there now. He had detached it and sent it up the face of the cube to find a way out. The metal fingers clung precariously to the smooth dull surface, as the cutting-thumb laboriously dug its way in. It was a big job for the surgeon-hand; after this it wouldn't be of much use at the operating table. But V-Stephens could easily get another -- they were for sale at any medical supply house on Venus. The forefinger of the surgeonhand reached the anode terminal and paused questioningly. All four fingers rose erect and waved like insect antennae. One by one they fitted themselves into the cut slot and probed for the nearby cathode lead. Abruptly there was a blinding flash. A white acrid cloud billowed out, and then came a sharp pop. The entrance-lock remained motionless as the hand dropped to the floor, its work done. V-Stephens put out his cigarette, got leisurely to his feet, and crossed the cube to collect it. With the hand in place and acting as part of his own neuromuscular system again, V-Stephens ngerly grasped the lock by its perimeter and after a moment pulled inward. The lock came without resistance and he found himself facing a deserted corridor. There was no sound or motion. No guards. No check-system on the psych patients. V-Stephens loped quickly ahead, around a turn, and through a series of connecting passages. In a moment he was at a wide view-window, overlooking the street, the surrounding buildings, and the hospital grounds. He assembled his wristwatch, cigarette lighter, fountain pen, keys and coins. From them his agile flesh and metal fingers rapidly formed an intricate gestalt of wiring and plates. He snapped off the cutting-thumb and screwed a heatelement in its place. In a brief flurry he had fused the mechanism to the underside of the window ledge, invisible from the hall, too far from ground level to be noticed. He was starting back down the corridor when a sound stopped him rigid. Voices, a routine hospital guard and somebody else. A familiar somebody else. He raced back to the psych ward and into his sealed cube. The magnetic lock fitted reluctantly in place; the heat generated by the short had sprung its clamps. He got it shut as footsteps halted outside. The magnetic field of the lock was dead, but of course the visitor didn't know that. V-Stephens listened with amusement as the visitor carefully negated the supposed magnetic field and then pushed the lock open. "Come in," V-Stephens said. Doctor LeMarr entered, briefcase in one hand, cold-beam in the other. "Come along with me. I have everything arranged. Money, fake identification, passport, tickets and clearance. You'll go as a webfoot commercial agent. By the time Gannet finds out you'll be past the Military monitor and out of Earth jurisdiction." V-Stephens was astounded. "But -- " "Hurry up!" LeMarr waved him into the corridor with his coldbeam. "As a staff member of the hospital I have authority over psych prisoners. Technically, you're listed as a mental patient. As far as I'm concerned you're no more crazy than the rest of them. If not less. That's why I'm here." V-Stephens eyed him doubtfully. "You sure you know what you're doing?" He followed LeMarr down the corridor, past the blankfaced guard and into the elevator. "They'll destroy you as a traitor, if they catch you. That guard saw you -- how are you going to keep this quiet?" "I don't expect to keep this quiet. Gannet is here, you know. He and his staff have been working over the old man." "Why are you telling me this?" The two of them strode down the descent ramp to the subsurface garage. An attendant rolled out LeMarr's car and they climbed into it, LeMarr behind the wheel. "You know why I was thrown in the psych-cube in the first place." "Take this." LeMarr tossed V-Stephens the cold-beam and steered up the tunnel to the surface, into the bright mid-day New York traffic. "You were going to contact ColorAd and inform them Earth will absolutely lose the war." He spun the car from the mainstream of traffic and onto a side lane, toward the interplan spacefield. "Tell them to stop working for compromise and strike hard -- immediately. Full scale war. Right?" "Right," V-Stephens said. "After all, if we're certain to win -- " "You're not certain." V-Stephens raised a green eyebrow. "Oh? I thought Unger was a veteran of total defeat." "Gannet is going to change the course of the war. He's found a critical point. As soon as he gets the exact information he'll pressure the Directorate into an all-out attack on Venus and Mars. War can't be avoided, not now." LeMarr slammed his car to a halt at the edge of the interplan field. "If there has to be war at least nobody's going to be taken by a sneak attack. You can tell your Colonial Organization and Administration our warfleet is on its way. Tell them to get ready. Tell them -- " LeMarr's voice trailed off. Like an unwound toy he sagged against the seat, slid silently down, and lay quietly with his head against the steering wheel. His glasses dropped from his nose onto the floor and after a moment V-Stephens replaced them. "I'm sorry," he said softly. "You meant well, but you sure fouled everything up." He briefly examined the surface of LeMarr's skull. The impulse from the cold-beam had not penetrated into brain tissue; LeMarr would regain consciousness in a few hours with nothing worse than a severe headache. V-Stephens pocketed the cold-beam, grabbed up the briefcase, and pushed the limp body of LeMarr away from the wheel. A moment later he was turning on the motor and backing the car around. As he sped back to the hospital he examined his watch. It wasn't too late. He leaned forward and dropped a quarter in the pay vidphone mounted on the dashboard. After a mechanical dialing process the Color-Ad receptionist flickered into view. "This is V-Stephens," he said. "Something went wrong. I was taken out of the hospital building. I'm heading back there now. I can make it in time, I think." "Is the vibrator-pack assembled?" "Assembled, yes. But not with me. I had already fused it into polarization with the magnetic flux. It's ready to go -- if I can get back there and at it." "There's a hitch at this end," the green-skinned girl said. "Is this a closed circuit?" "It's open," V-Stephens admitted. "But it's public and probably random. They couldn't very well have a bug on it." He checked the power meter on the guarantee seal fastened to the unit. "It shows no drain. Go ahead." "The ship won't be able to pick you up in the city." "Hell," V-Stephens said. "You'll have to get out of New York on your own power; we can't help you there. Mobs destroyed our New York port facilities. You'll have to go by surface car to Denver. That's the nearest place the ship can land. That's our last protected spot on Earth." V-Stephens groaned. "Just my luck. You know what'll happen if they catch me?" The girl smiled faintly. "All web foots look alike to Earthmen. They'll be stringing us up indiscriminately. We're in this together. Good luck; we'll be waiting for you." V-Stephens angrily broke the circuit and slowed Ae car. He parked in a public lot on a dingy side street and got quickly out. He was at the edge of the green expanse of park. Beyond it, the hospital buildings rose. Gripping the briefcase tightly he ran toward the main entrance. mouth on his sleeve, then lay back weakly against his chair. "I don't know," he repeated, his voice faint and dry. "I told you I don't remember any more. It was so long ago." Gannet signalled, and the officers moved away from the old man. "It's coming," he said wearily. He mopped his perspiring forehead. "Slowly and surely. We should have what we want inside another half hour." One side of the therapy house had been turned into a Military table-map. Counters had been laid out across the surface to represent units of the webfoot and crow fleets. White luminous chips represented Earth ships lined up against them in a tight ring around the third planet. "It's someplace near here," Lieutenant West said to Patterson. Redeyed, stubble-chinned, hands shaking with fatigue and tension, he indicated a section of the map. "Unger remembers hearing officers talking about this convoy. The convoy took oflF from a supply base on Ganymede. It disappeared on some kind of deliberate random course." His hand swept the area. "At the time, nobody on Earth paid any attention to it. Later, they realized what they'd lost. Some military expert charted the thing in retrospect and it was taped and passed around. Officers got together and analyzed the incident. Unger thinks the convoy route took it close to Europa. But maybe it was Callisto." "That's not good enough," Gannet snapped. "So far we don't have any more route data than Earth tacticians had at the time. We need to add exact knowledge, material released after the event." David Unger fumbled with a glass of water. "Thanks," he muttered gratefully, as one of the young officers handed it to him. "I sure wish I could help you fellows out better," he said plaintively. "I'm trying to remember. But I don't seem able to think clear, like I used to." 'His wizened face twisted with futile concentration. "You know, it seems to me that convoy was stopped near Mars by some kind of meteor swarm." Gannet moved forward. "Go on. Unger appealed to him pathetically. "I want to help you all I can, mister. Most people go to write a book about a war, they just scan stuff from other books." There was pitiful gratitude on the eroded face. "I guess you'll mention my name in your book, someplace." So that was it. Patterson turned away, sickened. Gannet was posing as a military historian. Writing a book on the lost war, gleaning memories from the old man for his "treatise". "Sure," Gannet said expansively. "Your name'll be on the first page. Maybe we could even get in a picture of you." "I know all about the war," Unger muttered. "Give me time and I'll have it straight. Just give me time. I'm trying as best I can." The old man was deteriorating rapidly. His wrinkled face was an unhealthy gray. Like drying putty, his flesh clung to his brittle, yellowed bones. His breath rattled in his throat. It was obvious to everyone present that David Unger was going to die -- and soon. "If he croaks before he remembers," Gannet said softly to Lieutenant West, "I'll -- " "What's that?" Unger asked sharply. His one good eye was suddenly keen and wary. "I can't hear so good." "Just fill in the missing elements," Gannet said wearily. He jerked his head. "Get him over to the map where he can see the setup. Maybe that'll help." The old man was yanked to his feet and propelled to the table. Technicians and brass hats closed in around him and the dim-eyed stumbling figure was lost from sight. "He won't last long," Patterson said savagely. "If you don't let him rest his heart's going to give out." "We must have the information," Gannet retorted. He eyed Patterson. "Where's the other doctor? LeMarr, I think he's called." Patterson glanced briefly around. "I don't see him. He probably couldn't stand it." "LeMarr never came," Gannet said, without emotion. "I wonder if we should have somebody round him up." He indicated Evelyn Cutter, who had just arrived, whitefaced, her black eyes wide, breathing quickly. "She suggests -- " "It doesn't matter now," Evelyn said frigidly. She shot a quick, urgent glance at Patterson. "I want nothing to do with you and your war." Gannet shrugged. "I'll send out a routine net, in any case. Just to be on the safe side." He moved off, leaving Evelyn and Patterson standing alone together. "Listen to me," Evelyn said harshly, her lips hot and close to his ear. 'Ungers number has come up:' They looked at each other. "When did they notify you?" Patterson demanded. "I was on my way here. I did what you said -- I fixed it up with a clerk at Military." "How long ago?" "Just now." Evelyn's face trembled. "Vachel, he's here." It was a moment before Patterson understood. "You mean they sent him over here? To the hospital?" "I told them to. I told them when he came to volunteer, when his number came to the top -- " Patterson grabbed her and hurried her from the therapy house, outside into the bright sunlight. He pushed her onto an ascent ramp and crowded in after her. "Where are they holding him?" "In the public reception room. They told him it was a routine physical check. A minor test of some kind." Evelyn was terrified. "What are we going to do? Can we do something?" "Gannet thinks so." "Suppose we -- stopped him? Maybe we could turn him aside." She shook her head, dazed. "What would happen? What would the future be like if we stopped him here? You could keep him out of the Service -- you're a doctor. A little red check on his health card." She began to laugh wildly. "I see them all the time. A little red check, and no more David Unger. Gannet never sees him, Gannet never knows Earth can't win and then Earth will win, and VStephens doesn't get locked up as a psychotic and that webfoot girl -- " Patterson's open hand smashed across the woman's face. "Shut up and snap out of it! We don't have time for that!" Evelyn shuddered ; he caught hold of her and held on tight to her until finally she raised her face. A red welt was rising slowly on her cheek. "I'm sorry," she managed to murmur. "Thanks. I'll be all right." The lift had reached the main floor. The door slid back and Patterson led her out into the hall. "You haven't seen him?" "No. When they told me the number had come up and he was on his way," Evelyn hurried breathlessly after Patterson, "I came as quickly as I could. Maybe it's too late. Maybe he got tired of waiting and left. He's a fifteen year old boy. He wants to get into the fight. Maybe he's gone!" Patterson halted a robot attendant. "Are you busy?" "No sir," the robot answered. Patterson gave the robot David Unger's i.d. number. "Get this man from the main reception room. Send him out here and then close off this hall. Seal it at both ends so nobody can enter or leave." The robot clicked uncertainly. "Will there be further orders? This syndrome doesn't complete a -- " "I'll instruct you later. Make sure nobody comes out with him. I want to meet him here alone." The robot scanned the number and then disappeared into the reception room. Patterson gripped Evelyn's arm. "Scared?" "I'm terrified." "I'll handle it. You just stand there." He passed her his cigarettes. "Light one for both of us." "Three, maybe. One for Unger." Patterson grinned. "He's too young, remember? He's not old enough to smoke." The robot returned. With it was a blond boy, plump and blue-eyed, his face wrinkled with perplexity. "You wanted me, Doc?" He came uncertainly up to Patterson. "Is there something wrong with me? They told me to come here, but they didn't say what for." His anxiety increased with a tidal rush. "There's nothing to keep me out of the Service, is there?" Patterson grabbed the boy's newly stamped i.d. card, glanced at it, and then passed it to Evelyn. She accepted it with paralyzed fingers, her eyes on the blond youth. He was not David Unger. son demanded. The boy stammered out his name shyly. "Bert Robinson. Doesn't it say there on my card?" Patterson turned to Evelyn. "It's the right number. But this isn't Unger. Something's happened." "Say, Doc," Robinson asked plaintively, "is there something going to keep me out of the Service or not? Give me the word." Patterson signalled the robot. "Open up the hall. It's all over with. You can go back to what you were doing." "I don't understand," Evelyn murmured. "It doesn't make sense." "You're all right," Patterson said to the youth. "You can report for induction." The boy's face sagged with relief. "Thanks a lot. Doc." He edged toward the descent ramp. "I sure appreciate it. I'm dying to get a crack at those webfoots." "Now what?" Evelyn said tightly, when the youth's broad back had disappeared. "Where do we go from here?" Patterson shook himself alive. "We'll get the Census Department to make their check. We've got to locate Unger," The transmission room was a humming blur of vid and aud reports. Patterson elbowed his way to an open circuit and placed the call. "That information will take a short time, sir," the girl at Census told him. "Will you wait, or shall we return your call?" Patterson grabbed up an h-loop and clipped it around his neck. "As soon as you have any information on Unger let me know. Break into this loop immediately." "Yes sir," the girl said dutifully, and broke the circuit. Patterson headed out of the room and down the corridor. Evelyn hurried after him. "Where are we going?" she asked. "To the therapy house. I want to talk to the old man. I want to ask him some things." "Gannet's doing that," Evelyn gasped, as they descended to ground level. "Why do you -- " "I want to ask him about the present, not the future." They emerged in the blinding afternoon sunlight. "I want to ask him about things going on right now." Evelyn stopped him. "Can't you explain it to me?" "I have a theory." Patterson pushed urgently past her. "Come on, before it's too late." They entered the therapy house. Technicians and officers were standing around the huge map table, examining the counters and indicator lines. "Where's Unger?" Patterson demanded. "He's gone," one of the officers answered. "Gannet gave up for today." "Gone where?" Patterson began to swear savagely. "What happened?" "Gannet and West took him back to the main building. He was too worn out to continue. We almost had it. Gannet's ready to burst a blood vessel, but we'll have to wait." Patterson grabbed Evelyn Cutter. "I want you to set off a general emergency alarm. Have the buildings surrounded. And hurry Evelyn gaped at him. "But -- Patterson ignored her and raced out of the therapy house, toward the main hospital building. Ahead of him were three slowly-moving figures. Lieutenant West and Gannet walked on each side of the old man, supporting him as he crept feebly forward. "Get away!" Patterson shouted at them. Gannet turned. "What's going on?" "Get him away!" Patterson dived for the old man -- but it was too late. The burst of energy seared past him; an ignited circle of blinding white flame lapped everywhere. The hunched-over figure of the old man wavered, then charred. The aluminum cane fused and ran down in a molten mass. What had been the old man began to smoke. The body cracked open and shriveled. Then very slowly the dried, dehydrated fragment of ash crumpled in a weightless heap. Gradually the circle of energy faded out. G annet kicked aimlessly at it, his heavy face numb with shock and disbelief. "He's dead. And we didn't get it." Lieutenant West stared at the still-smoking ash. His lips twisted into words. "We'll never find out. We can't change it. We can't win." Suddenly his fingers grabbed at his coat. He tore the insignia from it and hurled the square of cloth savagely away. "I'll be damned if I'm going to give up my life so you can corner the system. I'm not getting into that death trap. Count me out!" The wail of the general emergency alarm dinned from the hospital building. Scampering figures raced toward Gannet, soldiers and hospital guards scurrying in confusion. Patterson paid no attention to them; his eyes were on the window directly above. Someone was standing there. A man, his hands deftly at work removing an object that flashed in the afternoon sun. The man was V-Stephens. He got the object of metal and plastic loose and disappeared with it, away from the window. Evelyn hurried up beside Patterson. "What -- " She saw the remains and screamed. "Oh, God. Who did it? Who? "V-Stephens." "LeMarr must have let him out. I knew it would happen." Tears filled her eyes and her voice rose in shrill hysteria. "I told you he'd do it! I warned you!" Gannet appealed childishly to Patterson. "What are we going to do? He's been murdered." Rage suddenly swept away the big man's fear. "I'll kill every webfoot on the planet. I'll burn down their homes and string them up. I'll -- He broke off raggedly. "But it's too late, isn't it? There's nothing we can do. We've lost. We're beaten, and the war hasn't even begun." "That's right," Patterson said. "It's too late. Your chance is gone." "If we could have got him to talk -- " Gannet snarled helplessly. "You couldn't. It wasn't possible." Gannet blinked. "Why not?" Some of his innate animal cunning filtered back. "Why do you say that?" Around Patterson's neck his hloop buzzed loudly. "Doctor Patterson," the monitor's voice came, "there is a rush call for you from Census." "Put it through," Patterson said. The voice of the Census clerk came tinnily in his ears. "Doctor Patterson, I have the information you requested." "What is it?" Patterson demanded. But he already knew the answer. "We have cross-checked our results to be certain. There is no person such as you described. There is no individual at this time or in our past records named David L. Unger with the identifying characteristics you outlined. The brain, teeth, and fingerprints do not refer to anything extant in our files. Do you wish us to -- " "No," Patterson said. "That answers my question. Let it go." He cut off the h-loop switch. Gannet was listening dully. "This is completely over my head, Patterson. Explain it to me." Patterson ignored him. He squatted down and poked at the ash that had been David Unger. After a moment he snapped the h-loop on again. "I want this taken upstairs to the analytical labs," he ordered quietly. "Get a team out here at once." He got slowly to his feet and added even more softly, "Then I'm going to find VStephens -- if I can." "He's undoubtedly on his way to Venus by now," Evelyn Cutter said bitterly. "Well, that's that. There's nothing we can do about it." "We're going to have war," Gannet admitted. He came slowly back to reality. With a violent effort he focussed on the people around him. He smoothed down his mane of white hair and adjusted his coat. A semblance of dignity was restored to his once-impressive frame. "We might as well meet it like men. There's no use trying to escape it." Patterson moved aside as a group of hospital robots approached the charred remains and began gingerly to collect them in a single heap. "Make a complete analysis," he said to the technician in charge of the work-detail. "Break down the basic cell-units, especially the neurological apparatus. Report what you find to me as soon as you possibly can." It took just about an hour. "Look for yourself," the lab technician said. "Here, take hold of some of the material. It doesn't even feel right." Patterson accepted a sample of dry, brittle organic matter. It might have been the smoked skin of some sea creature. It broke apart easily in his hands; as he put it down among the test equipment it crumbled into powdery fragments. "I see," he said slowly. "It's good, considering. But it's weak. Probably it wouldn't have stood up another couple of days. It was deteriorating rapidly; sun, air, everything was breaking it down. There was no innate repair-system involved. Our cells are constantly reprocessed, cleaned and maintained. This thing was set up and then pushed into motion. Obviously, somebody's a long way ahead of us in biosynthetics. This is a masterpiece." "Yes, it's a good job," Patterson admitted. He took another sample of what had been the body of David Unger and thoughtfully broke it into small dry pieces. "It fooled us completely." "You knew, didn't you?" "Not at first." "As you can see we're reconstructing the whole system, getting the ash back into one piece. Parts are missing, of course, but we can get the general outlines. I'd like to meet the manufacturers of this thing. This really worked. This was no machine." Patterson located the charred ash that had been reconstructed into the android's face. Withered, blackened paper-thin flesh. The dead eye gazed out lusterless and blind. Census had been right. There was never a David Unger. Such a person had never lived on Earth or anywhere else. What they had called "David Unger" was a manmade synthetic. "We were really taken in," Patterson admitted. "How many people know, beside the two of us?" "Nobody else." The lab technician indicated his squad of workrobots. "I'm the only human on this detail." "Can you keep it quiet?" "Sure. You're my boss, you know." "Thanks," Patterson said. "But if you want, this information would get you another boss any time." "Gannet?" The lab technician laughed. "I don't think I'd like to work for him." "He'd pay you pretty well." "True," said the lab technician. "But one of these days I'd be in the front lines. I like it better here in the hospital." Patterson started toward the door. "If anybody asks, tell them there wasn't enough left to analyze. Can you dispose of these remains?" "I'd hate to, but I guess I can." The technician eyed him curiously. "You have any idea who put this thing together? I'd hke to shake hands with them." "I'm interested in only one thing right now," Patterson said obliquely. "V-Stephens has to be found." afternoon sunlight filtered into his brain. He pulled himself upright -- and banged his head sharply on the dashboard of the car. Pain swirled around him and for a time he sank back down into agonized darkness. Then slowly, gradually, he emerged. And peered around him. His car was parked in the rear of a small, dilapidated public lot. It was about five-thirty. Traffic swarmed noisily along the narrow street onto which the lot fed. LeMarr reached up and gingerly explored the side of his skull. There was a numb spot the size of a silver dollar, an area totally without sensation. The spot radiated a chill breath, the utter absence of heat, as if somehow he had bumped against a nexus of outer space. He was still trying to collect himself and recollect the events that had preceded his period of unconsciousness, when the swift-moving form of Doctor V-Stephens appeared. V-Stephens ran lithely between the parked surface cars, one hand in his coat pocket, eyes alert and wary. There was something strange about him, a difference that LeMarr in his befuddled state couldn't pin down. V-Stephens had almost reached the car before he realized what it was -- and at the same time was lashed by the full surge of memory. He sank down and lay against the door, as limp and inert as possible. In spite of himself he started slightly, as VStephens yanked the door open and slid behind the wheel. V-Stephens was no longer green. The Venusian slammed the door, jabbed the car key in the lock, and started up the motor. He lit a cigarette, examined his pair of heavy gloves, glanced briefly at LeMarr, and pulled out of the lot into the early-evening traffic. For a moment he drove with one gloved hand on the wheel, the other still inside his coat. Then, as he gained full speed, he slid his cold-beam out, gripped it briefly, and dropped it on the seat beside him. LeMarr pounced on it. From the comer of his eye, V-Stephens saw the limp body swing into life. He slammed on the emergency brake and forgot the wheel; the two of them struggled silently, furiously. The car shrieked to a halt and immediately became the center of an angry mass of honking car-horns. The two men fought with desperate intensity, neither of them breathing, locked almost immobile as momentarily all forces balanced. Then LeMarr yanked away, the cold-beam aimed at V-Stephens' colorless face. "What happened?" he croaked hoarsely. "I'm missing five hours. What did you do? V-Stephens said nothing. He released the brake and began driving slowly with the swirl of traffic. Gray cigarette smoke dribbled from between his lips; his eyes were halfclosed, filmed over and opaque. "You're an Earthman," LeMarr said, wonderingly. "You're not a webfoot after all." "Fm a Venusian," V-Stephens answered indifTerently. He showed his webbed fingers, then replaced his heavy driving gloves. "But how -- " "You think we can't pass over the color line when we want to?" V-Stephens shrugged. "Dyes, chemical hormones, a few minor surgical operations. A half hour in the men's room with a hypodermic and salve... This is no planet for a man with green skin." Across the street a hasty barricade had been erected. A group of sullen-faced men stood around with guns and crude hand-clubs, some of them wearing gray Home Guard caps. They were flagging down cars one by one and searching them. A beefy-faced man waved V-Stephens to a halt. He strolled over and gestured for the window to be rolled down. "What's going on?" LeMarr demanded nervously. "Looking for webfoots," the man growled, a thick odor of garlic and perspiration steaming from his heavy canvas shirt. He darted quick, suspicious glances into the car. "Seen any around?" "No," V-Stephens said... The man ripped open the luggage compartment and peered in. "We caught one a couple minutes ago." He jerked his thick thumb. "See him up there?" The Venusian had been strung up to a street lamp. His green body dangled and swayed with the earlyevening wind. His face was a mottled, ugly mask of pain. A crowd of people stood around the pole, grim, mean-looking. Waiting. "There'll be more," the man said, as he slammed the luggage compartment. "Plenty more." "What happened?" LeMarr managed to ask. He was nauseated and horrified; his voice came out almost inaudible. "Why all this?" "A webfoot killed a man. An ariman." The man pulled back and slapped the car. "Okay -- you can go." V-Stephens moved the car forward. Some of the loitering people had whole uniforms, combinations of the Home Guard gray and Terran blue. Boots, heavy beltbuckles, caps, pistols, and armbands. The armbands read D.C. in bold black letters against a red background. "What's that?" LeMarr asked faintly. "Defense Committee," V-Stephens answered. "Gannet's front outfit. To defend Earth against the webfoots and crows." "But -- " LeMarr gestured helplessly. "Is Earth being attacked?" "Not that I know of." "Turn the car around. Head back to the hospital." V-Stephens hesitated, then did as he was told. In a moment the car was speeding back toward the center of New York. "What's this for?" V-Stephens asked. "Why do you want to go back?"  LeMarr didn't hear him; he was gazing with fixed horror at the people along the street. Men and women prowling like animals, looking for something to kill. "They've gone crazy," LeMarr muttered. "They're beasts." "No," V-Stephens said. "This'll die down, soon. When the Committee gets its financial support Jerked out from under it. It's still going full blast, but pretty soon the gears will change around and the big engine will start grinding in reverse. "Why?" "Because Gannet doesn't want 'war, now. It takes awhile for the new line to trickle down. Gannet will probably finance a movement called P.G. Peace Committee." The hospital was surrounded by a wall of tanks and trucks and heavy mobile guns. V-Stephens slowed the car to a halt and stubbed out his cigarette. No cars were being passed. Soldiers moved among the tanks with gleaming heavy-duty weapons that were still shiny with packing grease. "Well?" V-Stephens said. "What now? You have the gun. It's your hot potato." LeMarr dropped a coin in the vidphone mounted on the dashboard. He gave the hospital number, and when the monitor appeared, asked hoarsely for Vachel Patterson. "Where are you?" Patterson demanded. He saw the cold-beam in LeMarr's hand, and then his eyes fastened on V-Stephens. "I see you got him." "Yes," LeMarr agreed, "but I don't understand what's happening." He appealed helplessly to Patterson's miniature vidimage. "What'U I do? What is all this?" "Give me your location," Patterson said tensely. LeMarr did so. "You want me to bring him to the hospital? Maybe I should -- " "Just hold onto that cold-beam. I'll be right there." Patterson broke the connection and the scjreen died. LeMarr shook his head in bewilderment. "I was trying to get you away," he said to V-Stephens. "Then you cold-beamed me. Why? Suddenly LeMarr shuddered violently. Full understanding came to him. "You killed David Unger!" "That's right," V-Stephens answered. The cold-beam trembled in LeMarr's hand. "Maybe I ought to kill you right now. Maybe I ought to roll down the window and yell to those madmen to come and get you. I don't know." "Do whatever you think best," V-Stephens said. LeMarr was still trying to decide, when Patterson appeared beside the car. He rapped on the window and LeMarr unlocked the door. Patterson climbed quickly in and slammed the door after him. "Start up the car," he said to V-Stephens. "Keep moving, away from downtown." V-Stephens glanced briefly at him, and then slowly started up the motor. "You might as well do it here," he said to Patterson. "Nobody'll interfere." "I want to get out of the city," Patterson answered. He added in explanation, "My lab staff analyzed the remains of David Unger. They were able to reconstruct most of the synthetic." V-Stephens' face registered a surge of frantic emotion. "Oh?" Patterson reached out his hand. "Shake," he said grimly. "Why?" V-Stephens asked, puzzled. "Somebody told me to do this. Somebody who agrees you Venusians did one hell of a good job when you made that android." T he car purred along the highway, through the evening gloom. "Denver is the last place left," V-Stephens explained to the two Earthmen. "There're too many of us, there. Color-Ad says a few Committee men started shelling our offices, but the Directorate put a sudden stop to it. Gannet's pressure, probably." "I want to hear more," Patterson said. "Not about Gannet; I know where he stands. I want to know what you people are up to." "Color-Ad engineered the synthetic," V-Stephens admitted. "We don't know any more about the future than you do -- which is absolutely nothing. There never was a David Unger. We forged the i.d. papers, built up a whole false personality, history of a nonexistent war -- everything." "Why?" LeMarr demanded. "To scare Gannet into calling off the dogs. To terrify him into letting Venus and Mars become independent. To keep him from fanning up a war to preserve his economic strangle-hold. The fake history we constructed in Unger's mind has Gannet's nine-world empire broken and destroyed. Gannet's a realist. He'd take a risk when he had odds -- but our history put the odds one hundred percent against him." "So Gannet pulls out," Patterson said slowly. "And you?" "We were always out," V-Stephens said quietly. "We were never in this war game. All we want is our freedom and independence. I don't know what the war would really be like, but I can guess. Not very pleasant. Not worth it for either of us. And as things were going, war was in the cards." "I want to get a few things straight," Patterson said. "You're a Color-Ad agent?" "Right." "And V-Rafia?" "She was also Color-Ad. Actually, all Venusians and Martians are Color-Ad agents as soon as they hit Earth. We wanted to get VRafia into the hospital to help me out. There was a chance I'd be prevented from destroying the synthetic at the proper time. If I hadn't been able to do it, V-Rafia would have. But Gannet killed her." "Why didn't you simply coldbeam Unger?" "For one thing we wanted the synthetic body completely destroyed. That isn't possible, of course. Reduced to ash was the next best thing. Broken down small enough so a cursory examination wouldn't show anything." He glanced up at Patterson. "Why'd you order such a radical examination?" "Unger's i.d. number had come up. And Unger didn't appear to claim it." "Oh," V-Stephens said uneasily. "That's bad. We had no why to tell when it would appear. We tried to pick a number due in a few months -- but enlistments rose sharply the last couple of weeks." "Suppose you hadn't been able to destroy Unger?" "We had the demolition machinery phased in such a way that the synthetic didn't have a chance. It was tuned to his body; all I had to do was activate it with Unger in the general area. If I had been killed, or I hadn't been able to set off the mechanism, the synthetic would have died naturally before Gannet got the information he wanted. Preferably, I was to destroy it in plain view of Gannet and his staff. It was important they think we knew about the war. The psychological shock-value of seeing Unger murdered outweighs the risk of my capture." "What happens next?" Patterson asked presently. "Pm supposed to join with Color-Ad. Originally, I was to grab a ship at the New York office, but Gannet' s mobs took care of that. Of course, this is assuming you won't stop me." LeMarr had begun to sweat. "Suppose Gannet finds out he was tricked? If he discovers there never was a David Unger -- " "We're patching that up," VStephens said. "By the time Gannet checks, there will be a David Unger. Meanwhile -- " He shrugged. "It's up to you two. You've got the gun." "Let him go," LeMarr said fervently. "That's not very patriotic," Patterson pointed out. "We're helping the webfoots put over something. Maybe we ought to call in one of those Committee men." "The devil with them," LeMarr grated. "I wouldn't turn anybody over to those lynch-happy lunatics. Even a -- " "Even a webfoot?" V-Stephens asked. Patterson was gazing up at the black, star-pocked sky. "What's finally going to happen?" he asked V-Stephens. "You think this stuff will end?" "Sure," V-Stephens said promptly. "One of these days we'll be moving out into the stars. Into other systems. We'll bump into other races -- and I mean real other races. Non-humans in the true sense of the word. Then people will see we're all off the same stem. It'll be obvious, when we've got something to compare ourselves to." "Okay," Patterson said. He took the cold-beam and handed it to V-Stephens. "That was all that worried me. I'd hate to think this stuff might keep on going." "It's won't," V-Stephens answered quietly. "Some of those nonhuman races ought to be pretty hideous. After a look at them, Earthmen will be glad to have their daughters marry men with green skin." He grinned briefly. "Some of the non-human races may not have any skin at all...    the fate of Earth rests on the roll of the dice or spin of the wheel! And issue! On sale at all newsstands February #th. Can both right and wrong be the same?... To Wistert, the axes meant native trouble. To Thunderton, they guaranteed the natives a brighter hope for the future... I j B ob wistert found the steel wiped his sweating hands on his axes quite by accident. trousers and stood very still. LisHe had been poking around in tening. the station storehouse back of A bird trilled cheerfully digestThunderton's, looking for a reing a worm. The twilight breeze placement battery for his electric rustled across the sand and lost ittyper, when he had moved a crate self in the tall trees beyond. The and found the trapdoor. It pulled sea muttered and whispered insistopen easily, and there they were, ently' in its ancient conversation Steel axes. with the shore. Hundreds of them. That was all. Their metallic heads gleamed in He switched off the light in the the white light. storehouse and locked the door be"Good God," Bob Wistert hind him. Soundlessly, he moved breathed. Quickly, he slammed the down the pathway. Both Sirius and trapdoor shut and shoved the crate her white dwarf companion were back in position to hide it. He below the horizon now, but the sky was still a blaze of blue-white, with sunset clouds laced with flame. Tony Thunderton's house was ahead of him, a bubble in the pinelike trees, and its plastic was clear. He searched the house with his eyes, but Tony wasn't there. He hurried on, anxious to get past the house. "Hello, Bob," Tony said. Bob Wistert stopped short. Tony was sitting in the yard, reading. He put aside his scanner and stood up. He was not a tall man and he was getting stout. His skin was bronze in the slowly fading light and his hair was black. He did not smile. "Find what you were after?" Tony asked. "Yes. Sure. Needed a battery." "Good for you." "Got to get back to Helen," Bob said. "Time to eat." "Give her my regards." He walked on, trying not to hurry. He could feel Tony's dark eyes following him down the path. When the trees screened him, he broke into a run. He entered his own house by the station wall and locked the door behind him. "Helen! Where are you?" She came out of the bedroom, straightening a clip in her brown hair. "What's wrong?" Her voice was taut, as though wound too tightly on a spring. "You look like Hamlet's old man filled you full of ectoplasm." He took her hands, his tall, thin frame towering over his wife. "Honey, I've got some bad news." "I can believe it. Are we in for a native uprising? Am I going to be burned at the stake like Jeanne d'Arc?" Illustrated by Ed Emsh "Dammit, Fm not kidding." "Spill it, then. The suspense is "Over in the storehouse," Bob said quickly. "I was looking for a battery. I pushed a crate out of the way and found a trapdoor. There's a cellar under there. It's full of steel axes." Helen's face paled under her tan. She sat down. "What are we going to do?" she whispered. "You tell me," Bob said. Together, moved by a common impulse, they turned and looked at the door. Toward Anthony Thunderton's. "He must be insane," Helen said. Outside, the wind was gentle in the trees and an alien sun was lost beneath an old and lovely sea. A lmost imperceptibly, the twilight deepened. Night would not fall for ten Earth-days. When it did come, it would last for a long, long time. There was no hurry. "I knew there was something fishy about this place," Bob said. "I knew it the minute I got off that ship, the minute I spotted Thunderton." "We've only been here a month. Maybe we ought to give Tony the benefit of the doubt." "Look," he said. "When you see some joker coming at you with a lead pipe in his hand and blood in his eye, the only doubt you're entitled to is whether you can bash him before he bashes you." He hesitated and then spoke slowly. "It'll be over nineteen Earth-years before that ship comes back for us, Helen. We're the only people from Earth on this planet except for Tony -- and Tony's been here for ten years. He's been alone here for five years, ever since his wife died. He's been a god -- he's had absolute power if he wanted it. If he's flipped his wig out here, we've got to know about it -- and fast." Helen looked away. She looked at their home, at the soft blue chairs and the pictures on the walls and the lazy couch before the fireplace. Something died in her eyes. "We can't be sure he's using those axes," she said. "He's using them all right, and he's not using them to shave himself with, either." There was a long silence, broken only by the wind and the beat of the sea. "I'll just have to go out and get some proof," Bob said finally. "We'll need photographs." "He took you out to meet one group, didn't he? You didn't tell me about anything wrong there." "I didn't see anything," Bob Wistert admitted. "That figures, though. He wouldn't show me the ones he'd been working on, not unless he's cracked more than I think he has. There's another band of them about twenty miles east of here according to the contact map. I can get to them before night. We've got to know." "Take me with you, Bob. I don't want to stay here alone." He kissed her lightly, ruffling her fragile brown hair with his hand. "No, lady. I can make better time alone, and you'll be all right here. Just keep the door locked and keep a gun handy. Don't let him in, Helen, no matter what happens." She didn't argue. "You'll need some food," she said. Packing was simple enough. He put his bed roll in his pocket and slipped the force field generator on his wrist. The food pills went into his belt slots. He pulled on his boots and was ready to go. Weapons were not permitted off the station, and it did not occur to him that he could smuggle one out in his pocket if he wanted to. In any event, he wasn't worried about the natives. "Don't worry, baby. Everything will be all right." "Of course," she said. He went out into the bright blue twilight, light-years from the planet Earth. When he had gone, Helen locked the door behind him and sat down in one of the blue chairs. She began the wait that has never been measured. She looked toward Anthony Thunderton's. "Damn you," she said in a flat, cold voice. "Damn ever had. Damn your soul." days to find the natives. Through the tall green trees ahead of him, he saw a curl of blue woodsmoke in a grassy plain. He walked faster, his force field protecting him from the thorny brush that guarded the cool forest floor. Once, not long ago, the scene before him would have thrilled him with excitement. Now, there was only a nameless dread. The wind was in his face and he saw them before they saw him. They were few -- perhaps thirty men, women, and children squatting around low orange fires. Their crude lean-tos with thatched grass tops were almost invisible against a soft backdrop of swaying grasses and incredible weeds and flowers. The children were naked. The adults, however, were too sophisticated for nakedness. Their skin loin cloths were simple and unadorned, but both men and women were scarified and wore wooden ear plugs the size of half-dollars within their stretched ear lobes. Their teeth were filed and darkened. They were a small people, and their skins were faintly greenish. All in all, they looked quite human. Stones had been heated in the fire until they were good and hot, and had then been dumped into bark containers full of water. The water boiled and cooked a varied assortment of plants, insects, and meat. There was no pottery. The only visible weapons were stone-tipped spears and curved throwing sticks. Bob Wistert made no attempt to hide himself. He walked straight toward the camp, his arms swinging easily at his sides. When the natives spotted him, they melted into the grass as though they had never been. He stood by the bubbling bark basket and waited. These people knew Thunderton; they would soon recognize that he was of the same tribe. Shortly, a young man stepped out of the grass, clapping his hard hands in greeting. A youn man! Bob, even after only a month, knew how wrong that was. He clapped his hands in return. "I come in peace," he said, speaking the language he had learned before coming to the seventh world of Sirius. "I am called Robert. I am the brother of Anthony, who is your brother." "My brother, you are welcome here with the Nwarkon, the people. I am called Entun." His voice was clear and liquid. Bob had no difficulty understanding him, although the dialect was different from what he had heard before. The others came out of the grass and shyly resumed their cooking. He noticed that the old men -- there were four of them -- seemed hesitant and confused. He kept his eye peeled, and he soon saw what he had come to see. Steel axes. Six of them. Five of them were in the possession of young men. One was being used by a woman to knock clumsy branches from firewood. Bob kept talking politely, but he got all the pictures he needed with his ring camera. "It is ready," Entun said. "Eat with us." He could not refuse. He sat with the young man and ate some of the stew from a bark bowl. It was just as bad as it looked. When he had eaten, he stayed a decent interval with the Nwarkton, making the small talk that is the same everywhere. He told lewd stories, but only to the proper relatives. He could not tell which of the girls might be his 'sisters', so he carefully avoided speaking to any of them. He stayed for one sleep period, and then left, after a grim struggle with his breakfast. No one had said anything about the steel axes. He walked through the forest and the air was sweet and clean. It was darker now and the long shadows were less distinct. Sirius was only a glow of electric light in the west. It was strange, he thought. He, so close to that great star, could not see it. On Earth, lightyears away across a sea of desolation, it was the Dog Star, the brightest in the heavens. And the light that could be seen on Earth, by some boy and girl in a hovering copter, had left the star almost nine years before Bob Wistert had set foot on the seventh world of Sirius... He shivered in a growing twilight hush. W #EN he got home,Helen was waiting for him. "I got the pictures," he said, sinking down on the couch. "There's no doubt of it now; I guess there never was." "Tony came to see me," she said. He sat up straight. "What did he want?" She fixed him a drink and put it in his hand. "He wanted us to come over for dinner when you got back. I didn't let him in." He knows. He must have seen me go. Helen moved about the room, giving a poor imitation of calm unconcern. "How now, Horatio? Do we ride into the valley of death, all two of us?" "Well, there's only one of him." "We're going to go, then?" He hesitated. "First, I'm going to log a little sack time. Second, I'm going to take a bath. Third, we'll go over and sample the cuisine at Tony's. Fair enough?" "I'd just as soon get it over with." He finished his drink and arranged himself on the couch, too tired to go to bed. He closed his eyes and waited for sleep. Sleep was slow in coming. Thoughts came instead. What is Thunderton up to? Is he going to ruin everything for all the people here? Is he going to ruin everything for us? Did Helen and I make a mistake in coming here? So many years to go -- and what can we do? What can we do? He tossed restlessly on the couch. Impatiently, he tried to sleep, tried to relax his mind. The thoughts kept coming, nagging at him. Questions, memories, promises, fears -- And dreams seemed very far away... In #, the first man set foot on the moon of Earth. Mars had been reached by #, and a landing had been made in #. By the year #, the solar system had been pretty well explored. It had proved to be fascinating, in much the same way as the Grand Canyon is fascinating. It was wild and good to look at, but it was desperately empty. Some fifty years later, in #, the first expedition got back from Centaurus. After that, a more practical interstellar drive was only a matter of time. In #, the first of the true starships was launched. It moved with a new kind of motion through a new kind of space. It was more than just a faster spaceship, just as an airplane is more than just a faster automobile. The starships were different. From # until # was the period of the initial investigation of the nearer star systems. Life had sought out life. One hundred and three Earthlike planets were found and there were humanoid peoples on every one of them. No planet was located that had a culture higher than Earth's, at least in a technological sense. As might have been suspected from Earth's history, Earth had specialized in technological development. Out of the one hundred and three planets which had intelligent life, only seventeen had attained an agricultural, Neolithic culture -- and none had passed beyond that stage. It became very clear why Earth had never been contacted from space. Earth needed a frontier, and now she had one. One hundred and three planets meant many things to many people, but first and foremost they meant a fantastic new market potential. They were a diot In the arm for a planet geared to production. Potentially. There were flies in the ointment. Centuries are long, and they are full. No mere record of explorar tions and inventions can tell you much about a century. People live and work and die, and sometimes a single day is too much for the historians. Earth had changed. It had to change, or there would have been no exploration of space. It had to change, or the first travelers to far Centaurus might have had no Earth to come back to. Earth changed. You can't sell a plow to a man who doesn't know what agriculture is. You can't sell a car to a man who has no roads. You can't take a man's money if he has never heard of money. You can't produce for a market unless the market's there. The new planets could not be profitable markets until they were further developed. Outright exploitation, in Ae year #, was out of the question. Colonialism was a dead duck -- and that was one duck nobody cared to dig up again. Okay. Where do we go from here? Socioculturology was a fairly well developed science ; it was quite possible to predict mass developments under any given set of conditions. The scientists could deal with the situation -- but the scientists didn't make the policy. A long wrangle broke out in the United World Council. What was ethical? What was practical? How could the job be financed? Meantime, there the planets were. It was important to know more about the people who lived on them, and to maintain contact with them. Anthropologists went in for a year or so, and made their out in the middle of nowhere and stay there for twenty years, to establish squatter's rights for industry? It was economically unsound to rotate personnel; it took over a year to reach most of the planets, and it was expensive. Stations had to be maintained until teams could be lawfully sent into the area to develop markets. Who would go? It took more than money to make a man leave his home for twenty years on an alien world. The man had to be qualified. It was no job for an adventurer. His job was to 'really get to know' the natives. That meant, in practice, that he met as many of them as he could within a very restricted area ; planets were big places. It was his job to maintain friendly relations. But under no conditions could he tamper with the native culture. He had to keep his hands off. This was their world, and they must be permitted to live their lives undisturbed -- for the present. Bob Wistert turned on the couch. Why had he come, really? And Helen -- what had she hoped to find here? We were going to live a new life, close to the land. We were going to start over, just the two of us. And now -- Exhausted, he slept. He dreamed that Anthony Thunderton was coming at him with a steel axe that glinted in iced moonlight. When he awoke, it was dark enough to see faint stars in the sky, and there was no wind. A nthony thunderton met them at the door. "Come in," he said. They stepped inside. The living room was lean and spare with simple wooden furniture. It was not a cold room. There were bright rugs on the floor and the lights were soft gold. Over the fireplace was a painting of Thunderton's wife; her rather broad face, dark hair and black eyes closely resembled Thunderton himself. "I'll put the dinner on," Thunderton said. "We'll eat in twenty minutes." They sat silently, caught between anxiety and embarrassment. The house was neat and clean -- surprisingly so, since Thunderton lived alone. He was back in three minutes, with Martinis on a polished wooid tray. He handed them their drinks. "Here's to continued good fellowship in our primitive wonderland," he said with a perfectly straight face. He served them dinner on an open porch; the bugs were kept out by a miniature force screen. They had tender white meat from a rabbit-like animal, green salad, and ears of com that Thunderton grew in a garden. When they had eaten, there was wine. Bob Wistert was tense and nervous. There were a lot of years ahead of them. Sooner or later, they would have to get things straight. For his part, he wanted it to be sooner. Now. He watched Thunderton carefully, wondering. Despite his stoutness, Thunderton was not a big man -- but he dominated the porch. He was not a man to fool with. Bob wasn't at all sure how to proceed. Anthony Thunderton helped him. "I guess you're wondering about the axes," he said quietly. Bob hesitated, but Helen spoke up. "Yes," she said. "We were." With great deliberation, Thunderton took out a cigar and lit it. His face was impassive. "There are many questions in the universe," he said. "For example, what brought you two all the way across space to this?" He waved his hand and the night came closer. There was no moon yet and the station made a small circle of light in the darkness. The black trees were still. On the edge of the sand the cool sea drummed with long, even beats. "Don't change the subject, Tony," Bob said. "All questions are one in the end," Thunderton said. He smiled. "The hell with that, though. Suppose I tell you why you're here." "Suppose you do," Bob said. Thunderton folded his powerful hands and clamped the cigar more firmly in his mouth. "I don't know you very well, so you'll have to allow for errors. Still, I think I can hit it pretty close." "We're waiting," Bob said, his irritation showing in his voice. "I'll take you first, Mr. Wistert. I should hazard a guess that you are one of that strange breed known as the intense idealist. You probably write poetry or do something equally foolish in your spare time. Naturally, you will compensate for this by insisting that you're the most practical damned man that ever lived. You're interested in our charming native friends out there in the woods -- you think they have a unique way of life which must be preserved. You think of yourself as their protector. You regard Earth as phony, so you've trotted out here to live in the Great Outdoors -- with all modem conveniences, of course." Bob leaned forward. "Listen, Mac, about one more crack out of you -- " Anthony Thunderton ignored him. "And you, fair lady," he said to Helen, "have always wondered why you weren't satisfied with your life. You've built an intellectual wall around yourself because you don't seem to fit anywhere. You've come out here with your man to find something you've never found. You won't find it here, either. It's in yourself if it's anywhere." Helen said nothing. Bob stood up. "If the 'Boy Psychologist' is through with his string of bromides, maybe we can get back to the axes." "Maybe we can," agreed Thunderton, chewing his cigar. "Do you deny that you've been giving steel axes to the natives?" "Have you ever heard me deny it?" "Forget the double-talk. Do you admit it?" "Certainly. I'm proud of it, if it comes to that." Bob stared at him. Thunderton sat there, calmly smoking his cigar. He might have said, "Why, yes, I often have prunes for breaHast." "You must be stark staring nuts!" Bob said. "Thank you, sir. You are a bom diplomat." Bob sat down again. He leaned forward, trying desperately to make contact with this man. "Look here, Tony. Don't you realize that those axes will utterly destroy those people out there? Don't you understand that they're human too? Can't you see that you're ripping their lives apart, leaving them with nothing? Do you think you're God?" "To answer the first and least emotional of your questions, I do realize that the axes will destroy those people. That is my intention." Bob slammed his fist down on the table. "You won't get away with it! You may be able to push those people around, but you can't push me around." "Most heroic," Thunderton said. Carefully, he took a pistol out of his pocket and held it loosely in his hand. "I just don't want you to get carried away," he explained. "Rather good pun, if I do say so myself." Bob looked at Helen, utterly at a loss for words. The man was insane, that was the only possible explanation -- "Now," Thunderton said, "if you will be good enough to pour yourself another glass of wine -- don't try throwing it in my face, by the way, as it annoys me -- I'd like to tell you exactly how I intend to destroy the natives. After that. I'll give you a short history lesson. After that, I'll put the gun away and we shall see what we shall see." Bob thought of several rash plans, but settled for doing as he was told. The wine, at any rate, was good. "Very well," Thunderton said. "Here are the details. I think you'll find them interesting." Bob and Helen waited. Around them, the long, long night was only beginning. T hunderton replaced what was left of his cigar with a new one. "Steel axes are curious things," he said with obvious relish. "You can chop down trees with them, bash in heads with them, or use them for money. On many worlds, a steel axe is a wonderfully effective new invention -- a jump forward of maybe a hundred thousand years of time. On other worlds, a steel axe is a tiresome and outmoded antique. It sort of depends on where you are -- or perhaps I should say when you are." "We know all that," Bob said. He was not pleased with himself for having said it, but he had been stung, and he wanted to sting back. "Our somewhat ignorant friends out there in the forest," Thunderton said, jerking his thumb toward the dark wall of pinelike trees, "are still living in a stone-age culture. That means that their technology is pretty crude stuff, even if it did take the human animal the better far on Earth. A stone axe takes time to make, as you doubtless know, and flint has the unhappy property of shattering or losing its edge if you whack it into a tree too many times. A steel axe can save you a lot of time, it lasts longer, and it gets the job done more efficiently. Of course, that happens to be irrelevant." "Why?" Helen asked. Thunderton grinned around his cigar. "I don't give a hoot in hell how long it takes them to chop down a tree. I'm interested in knocking their culture apart in the quickest possible way." Bob Wistert eyed the gun in Thunderton's hand and shifted his weight on the chair. Why? Why is he trying to destroy them? Whafs in it for him? What kind of a man is he? What kind of a man -- "Interesting business," Thunderton said. "I've made quite a study of it -- can't afford to make mistakes, you know. There are two things about the native culture that are important. The first is that the society is set up in such a way that the old men, the tribal elders, run the show. They get the best food, the best women, and the best places around the fire. Those old buzzards are really powerful, too -- their authority is real, and damned near absolute. Okay. I don't care. That's one way to do things. But look at this: the symbol of their authority is the stone axe. An old man is the only person who can own a stone axe. If a woman or a boy wants to use one, they have to go to 'Old Man Mose' and get his permission. There's a complex taboo system thrown up around the stone axes, naturally. If you use one without permission, you've had it. It's a cute system ; all the old men have to do is threaten to hold back the axes, and that's all the power they need." I knew those axes were important, But Tony knows more than I do. Is it too late to stop him? Thunderton puffed on his cigar. "The second important thing is that those axes have to be made out of a special kind of stone -- and there are no such stones within two hundred miles of here. The old men have to trade for them. There's a network of trade that almost crosses this continent -- and it's based on area specialization in the manufacture of stone axes. The tribal elders around here supply wood for the handles -- that's all they do. Somebody else supplies the stone. Another tribe makes the axes. All the old men have trading partners in other villages, and regular trade routes they follow seasonally. Get the picture?" "I'm beginning to" Bob said quietly. "Let me fill in the details' Thunderton said. He smiled with genuine pleasure. "I go into this set-up with a crate or so of steel axes -- I made 'em myself, by the way. I give the steel axes to the women and the young men. At first, they're afraid to te them. I take them aside and explain to them -- look, these aren't stone axes! These aren't sacred! They can't hurt you -- there are no taboos around them! Try 'em and see! Well, they do try them. No bolt of lightning strikes, they don't get sick and die. And damned if they don't work better than the old stone axes! Okay. The chain reaction starts. Nobody has to ask the permission of the old codgers anymore -- they've got their own axes. The authority of the old men goes down the drain. The boys and young men stop giving the old men all the good deals. They figure they're already big shots -- they've got something the old men haven't got. The stone axes are suddenly anachronisms. The old men get discouraged. Why make that long, hard trading expedition? Say! Maybe if they play their cards right they can get some of those new axes with the hard, sharp blades!" Thunderton crushed out his cigar. "That does it. A few steel axes, and presto! The whole web of tribal interrelationships breaks down -- why trade for something useless? The power of the gods is challenged. The social organization collapses; the younger generation starts feeling its oats. In a word, the old culture is kaput. Neat, eh?" "Yeah," said Bob. "Neat." Why has he done this thing? What kind of a man -- "You spoke of a history lesson," Helen said. Anthony Thunderton stood up, the gun still held loosely in his hand. He looked out into the night, toward the sand and the sea and the quiet. "Have you ever heard of the American Indian?" he asked. Nuts, Stark staring nuts. Or -- He pointed the gun at Bob Wistert, casually. "Well?" "Come off of it, Tony. Of course I've heard of the American Indian. There's a statue in Washington. We learn about them in school. People write novels about them." "Hooray. What do you think of the Indian, Mr. Wistert?" Bob shrugged. "They were an interesting people. I guess they got a dirty deal. They were there first and all that." Thunderton nodded. "I notice you use the past tense," he said. "I suppose that's the point, really. Did you find them quaint when you studied them, Mr. Wistert? Unique way of life? Sort of like the natives out there in the woods?" "I don't know. That's not a fair question. Anyway, I didn't destroy them. That's more than you can say, whatever you're driving at." "How do you know you didn't?" "Look, I know you speak English. Try a little and forget the riddles." Thunderton sighed. "Time for the history lesson. Topic for tonight: The American Indian. Listening time: two minutes. Hang on, boys and girls." "I don't understand -- " "Be quiet, Bob," Helen said. "Let him finish." He looked at his wife in astonishment. "We'll skip all the romantic guff, with your permission," Thunderton said. "You know who the Indians were, and you've heard all about the broken treaties and the smallpox. Okay. How about after all that was over? How about when everything was friendly, when the Indians weren't a threat any longer? How about the reservations and all the people who admired the Indian ways of life?" "I'll bite," Bob said. "How about them?" "This about them: by the middle of the twentieth century, most people did not hate the Indians. They were colorful, interesting. Many people tried to preserve what was left of the Indian cultures. Sure, maybe the reservation schools were poor and under-staffed. Sure, maybe an Indian kid had nothing to look forward to because he couldn't get a good education and compete in the white world. Sure, maybe they were backward and caught in a trap. Didn't they make pretty pots? Didn't they weave colorful blankets? Weren't they fascinating? Thunderton sat down and spun the pistol on his finger. "Oh, people meant well, all right. Nobody bothered to tell the Indian about real estate deals and mineral rights and stocks and bonds and con men. Nobody bothered to make sure he could stand on his own hind legs and fight for his rights after he became a citizen. Nobody told him he might lose his land when he became 'free'. Hell, education was expensive. It was easier to just turn him loose and hope for the best. People meant well, most of them. It was all very high-minded. But this is #. Where are the Indians? Let's see -- there's a statue in Washington, there's that lovely novel about the wicked cavalry troopers -- " "I see what you mean," Bob said. "But, those natives aren't Indians, and this is #. We've learned a few things in the last century or so. They're working out a fair program back there in the Council, they'll figure out the right thing to do. I'm afraid I don't get the connection. Your speech was pretty -- but youre the one who destroyed those natives." Thunderton ignored him. "A few more points, Mr. Wistert. Maybe the policy will be a dandy one; scientific and all that. Back in Spain, along about #, they had an enlightened policy toward the Indians. But it was a long way from Spain to Mexico; some of the boys with Cortez didn't pay much attention to the nice policy. Okay. Suppose the policy they develop is a good one, and suppose, just for the hell of it, that it's honored to the letter. So what? So they'll come out here and tell those natives what to do -- for the good of the natives, of course. Why not ask the natives what they want? Excuse me; I detest idealists." Thunderton poured himself a glass of wine with his free hand. "Get this," he said. "Industry is coming out here, whether the natives like it or not. We're here, and they've got to change. I don't say it's right and I don't say it's wrong. That's just the way it works, Mr. Wistert, I've got maybe thirty years before the teams come in on Sirius Seven. I can't do much, and I can't reach many of the people on this planet. But, by God, when those teams come in here, there are going to be a few natives around who know what the score is. They're going to speak English, they're going to know how money works, and they're going to know about the law. They're going to have a chance. After that, if they throw it away, that's their business." "But you're tearing them apart!" Bob said. "You're not teaching them anything." "Mr. Wistert," Thunderton said quietly, "it is sometimes necessary to destroy before you can build. The old men were very conservative, and they ran the tribe. I had to give the young men a chance to change. There's one group you haven't seen yet. They may not be any wizards of finance, pal, but they know enough to get a lawyer." "You'll go to jail. You can't set yourself above the law." Thunderton laughed. "How do you know you're right? Who are you to say you're smarter than the United World Council?" "I never said I was right, Mr. Wistert. I do what I have to do. That's all." Anthony Thunderton put the pistol down on the table in front of him. He stood up. He turned his back on them and walked into his house, leaving them where they were. Bob Wistert picked up the pistol, looked at it, and put it back on the table. "I don't know what to do," he said slowly. Helen got up and took his arm. "Come on, honey." "Where are we going?" "Let's take a walk." He stood up. Together, they walked off the porch, feeling a tingle as they passed through the bug screen. They walked along a pathway under the pinelike trees, until there were no trees and there was only sand. They walked toward the sea. Bob Wistert tried to think. He didn't understand. Why had Thunderton done it? What kind of a man -- T he sea was vast and lonely, stars. It slid up the sand at their feet and made slow wet curves of phosphorescence and then whispered back to black depths and ageless currents. He tried to speak honestly, forgetting the hurt inside him. "Helen, we have twenty years ahead of us here, on this world, with this man. I don't know whether he's right or wrong. I don't know what I should do, or shouldn't do. We've got to think of ourselves." "Yes. We must think of ourselves." "I didn't mean it that way." He managed a smile. "Our pay is already deposited on Earth ; that makes it easier to be brave." She kissed him. "You have me. Bob. You just have to do what you think is right." "I don't know what's right" "Maybe there is no right or wrong here. Maybe there are just two different ways of doing things. Maybe nothing we do will make any difference in the end." The night filled the world around them. It would be night for two hundred Earth-days. Out there, in the forests and the fields, another kind of night had begun for the peoples whose world this was. An ancient, bitter night of misery and despair. A cold night, a night of shadows and destruction. Still, the light would come again. Beyond every night there was a morning. "Who is he, Helen? Why has he come here?" "Look at his face, Bob. Look at his eyes and his hair. Look at that painting of his wife. It's been almost six hundred years since the first Indian met Cortez. That's a long time -- but not too long to remember the white man." Broad face, bronze skin, black hair, dark eyes -- What kind of a man -- "What are we going to do?" "I don't know," she said. "I haven't got any answers, not now." He hesitated. "We have twenty years to go. We can help him or not help him, but I hope we can be his friends." "I know this," she said quietly. "He is a lonely man." They turned and put the dark sea behind them. Slowly, they walked through the sand toward the small light that burned in the trees. When they got back, Tony had the coffee ready, waiting for them.    voice and power to save him from sweatshops and overwork and pittance wages. But I also know that Caesar brought glory to the common people, that Stalin started out by freeing the people of Russia from the ignorance and oppression of the Tsarist yoke, and that Hitler and Mussolini began the march to absolute power through the bettering of conditions for the laboring man and woman. The pattern scares me stiff. While I believe in the union movement, I also believe that its power should be limited to the state in which it functions. I believe that unions in Utah, for instance, should be completely divorced from those nia or any of the other forty-seven (Continued from page #) states, each with its own separate leader. In this way they can carry on the fight for which they were originally formed -- wages, hours, working conditions and the welfare of their own members in their own states. They would still have a voice in the national government -- as each one of us has a voice -- through a duly elected representative. The consolidation proposal, if it is passed, will create an organization that will be physically able to sign the death warrant of any opposition. It will become an octopus with its tentacles reaching into the political, industrial, economical, and cultural life of the U.S.A. In fact, one of these tentacles may well be circled around your own throat. -- jlq Old Judge Anderson feared the inevitable -- he was to be replaced by a Cyber! A machine that dealt out decisions free of human errors and emotions. What would Justice Holmes think? what the District Attorney had called it in his campaign speech last night. "Cyber justice!" Oh, hell! Judge Walhfred Anderson threw the morning fax paper on top of the law books he had been researching for the past two hours, and stomped angrily across his chamber to the door of the courtroom. But it was easier to throw away the paper than the image of the words: " -- and, if re-elected, I pledge to do all in my power to help replace human inefficiency with Cyber justice in the courts of this county! "WeVe seen what other counties have done with Cyber judges. We've witnessed the effectiveness of cybernetic units in our own Appellate Division... And I can promise you twice as many prosecutions at half the cost to the taxpayers... with modern, streamlined Cyber justice!" Oh, hell! Walhfred Anderson caught a glimpse of his reflection in the oval mirror behind the coat rack. He paused, fuming, and smoothed down the few lingering strands of grey hair. The District Attorney was waiting for him out there. No use giving him the satisfaction of looking upset. Only a few moments ago, the Presiding Judge had visaIllustrated by Paul Orban phoned a warning that the D.A. had obtained a change of calendar and was going to spring a surprise case this morning... The Judge cocked his bow tie at a jaunty angle, opened the neckline of his black robe enough for the pink boutonniere to peep out, and stepped into the courtroom as sprightly as his eighty-six years would permit. The District Attorney was an exfootball player, square-shouldered and square-jawed. He propelled himself to his feet, bowed perfunctorily and remained standing for the Pledge of Allegiance. As the bailiff's voice repeated the pledge in an unbroken monotone, Walhfred Anderson allowed his eyes to wander to the goldframed picture of his personal symbol of justice, Oliver Wendell Holmes. Judge Anderson winked at Justice Holmes. It was a morning ritual he had observed without fail for nearly fifty years. This wasn't the classic picture of Justice Holmes. Not the leonine figure Walhfred Anderson had once seen in the National Gallery. The Justice Holmes on the wall of Judge Anderson's courtroom was much warmer and more human than the official portrait. It was from an old etching that showed the Justice wearing a natty grey fedora. The Justice's fabled mustaches were long and sweeping, giving him the air of a titled playboy, but his eyes were the eyes of the man who had said: "When I am dying, my last words will be -- have faith and pursue the unknown end." Those were good words to remember, when you were eightysix. Walhfred Anderson stared wistfully at the yellowed etching, waiting for some other dearly remembered phrase to spring up between them. But Justice Holmes wasn't communicative this morning. He hadn't been for a long time. The District Attorney's voice, threaded with sarcasm, broke into his reverie: "If the Court pleases, I would like to call up the case of People vs. Professor Neustadt." Walhfred Anderson accepted the file from his aging, nearsighted clerk. He saw that the case had been assigned originally to Department #. It was the case he had been warned about by the Presiding Judge. Walhfred Anderson struggled to focus all his attention on the complaint before him. His craggy features, once described as resembling a benign bulldog, grew rigid with concentration. The Judge had a strong sense of honor about dividing his attention in Court. A case was not just a case ; it was a human being whose past, present and future were wrapped up in the charge against him. "Your Honor," the District Attorney broke in, impatiently, "if the Court will permit, I can summarize this case very quickly..." The tone of his voice implied : A Cyber judge would speed things up around here. Feed the facts into the proprioceptor, and they'd be stored and correlated instantly. Perhaps so, Walhfred Anderson thought, suddenly tired, though the morning was still young. At eighty-six you couldn't go on fighting and resisting much longer. Maybe he should resign, and listen to the speeches at a farewell luncheon, and let a Cyber take over. The Gybers were fast. They ruled swiftly and surely on points of law. They separated fact from fallacy. They were not led down side avenues of justice by human frailty. Their vision was not blurred by emotion. And yet... Judge Anderson looked to Justice Holmes for a clarifying thought, but the Justice's eyes were opaque, inscrutable. Judge Anderson wearily settled back in his tall chair, bracing the ache in his back against the leather padding. "You may proceed," he told the District Attorney. "Thank you, your Honor." This time the edge of sarcasm was so sharp that the Clerk and Court Stenographer looked up indignantly, expecting one of the Judge's famous retorts. The crags in the Judge's face deepened, but he remained quiet. With a tight smile, the District Attorney picked up his notebook. "The defendant," he began crisply, "is charged on three counts of fraud under Section #..." "To wit," rumbled Judge Anderson, restlessly. "To wit," snapped the D.A., "the defendant is charged with giving paid performances at a local theatre, during which he purported to demonstrate that he could take over Cyber functions and perform them more efficiently." Walhfrd Anderson felt the door closing on him. So this was why the D.A. had requested a change of calendar! What a perfect tie-in with the election campaign! He swiveled to study the defendant. Professor Neustadt was an astonishingly thin little man; the bones of his shoulders seemed about to thrust through the padding of his cheap brown suit. His thinness, combined with a tuft of white hair at the peak of his forehead, gave him the look of a scrawny bird. "Our investigation of this defendant," continued the D.A., "showed that his title was assumed merely for stage purposes. He has been associated with the less creditable phases of show business for many years. In his youth, he gained considerable attention as a 'quiz kid', and later, for a time, ran his own program and syndicated column. But his novelty wore off, and he apparently created this cybernetic act to..." Rousing himself to his judicial responsibility. Judge Anderson interrupted : "Is the defendant represented by counsel?" "Your Honor," spoke up Professor Neustadt, in a resonant, bass voice that should have come from a much larger diaphragm, "I request the Court's permission to act as my own attorney." Walhfred Anderson saw the D.A. smile, and he surmised that the old legal truism was going through his mind : A man who defends himself has a fool for a client. "If it's a question of finances," the Judge rumbled gently. "It is not a question of finances. I merely wish to defend myself." Judge Anderson was annoyed, worried. Whoever he was or claimed to be, this Professor was evidently something of a crackpot. The D.A. would tear him to small pieces, and twist the whole case into an implicit argument for Cyber judges. "The defendant has a right to act as his own counsel," the D.A. reminded him. "The Court is aware of that," retorted the Judge. Only the restraining eye of Oliver Wendell Holmes kept him from cutting loose on the D.A. But one more remark like that, and he'd turn his back on the Justice. After all, what right had Holmes to get stuffy at a time like this? He'd never had to contend with Cyber justice! He motioned to the D.A. to continue with the People's case, but the Professor spoke up first: "Your Honor, I stipulate to the prosecution evidence." The D.A. squinted warily. "Is the defendant pleading guilty?" "I am merely stipulating to the evidence. Surely the prosecution knows the difference between a stipulation and a plea! I am only trying to save the time of the Court by stipulating to the material facts in the complaint against me!" The D.A. was obviously disappointed in not being able to present his case. Walhfred Anderson repressed an urge to chuckle. He wondered how a Cyber judge would handle a stipulation. "Do you have a defense to present?" he asked the Professor. "Indeed I do, your Honor! I propose to bring a Cyber into the courtroom and prove that I can perform its functions more efficiently!" The D.A. flushed. "What kind of a farce is this? We've watched the defendant's performance for several days, and it's perfectly clear that he is merely competing against his own special Cyber unit, one with very limited memory storage capacity... "I propose further," continued Professor Neustadt, ignoring the D.A., "that the prosecution bring any Cyber unit of its choice into pete against any Cyber yet devised!" This man was not only a crackpot, he was a lunatic, thought Walhfred Anderson with an inward groan. No one but a lunatic would claim he could compete with the memory storage capacity of a Cyber. As always when troubled, he looked toward Oliver Wendell Holmes for help, but the Justice was still inscrutable. He certainly was being difficult this morning! The Judge sighed, and began a ruling: "The procedure suggested by the defendant would fail to answer to the material counts of the complaint..." But, as he had expected, the D.A. did not intend to let this opportunity pass. "May it please the Court," said the District Attorney, with a wide grin for the fax reporter, "the people will stipulate to the defense, and will not press for trial of the complaint if the defendant can indeed compete with a Cyber unit of our choice." Walhfred Anderson glowered at the unsympathetic Justice Holmes. Dammit, man, he thought, don't be so calm about this whole thing. What if you were sitting here, and I was up there in a gold frame? Aloud, he hedged: "The Court does not believe such a test could be properly and fairly conducted." "I am not concerned with being fairly treated," orated the wispy Professor. "I propose that five questions or problems be posed to the Cyber and myself, and that we be judged on both the speed and accuracy of our replies. I am quite the questions." Go to hell, Holmes, thought Judge Anderson. I don't need you anyway. I've got the answer. The Professor is stark, raving mad. Before he could develop a ruling along this line, the grinning D.A. had accepted the Professor's terms. "I have but one condition," interposed the defendant, "if I win this test, I would like to submit a question of my own to the Cyber." The D.A. hesitated, conferred in a whisper with his assistant, then shrugged. "We so stipulate." Firmly, Walhfred Anderson turned his back on Oliver Wendell Holmes. "In the opinion of the Court," he thundered, "the proposed demonstration would be irrelevant, immaterial and without substantive basis in law. Unless the People proceed with their case in the proper manner, the Court will dismiss this complaint!" "Objection!" "Objection!" The word was spoken simultaneously by both the D.A. and the Professor. Then the defendant bowed toward the District Attorney, and asked him to continue. F or one of the few times in his life, Walhfred Anderson found himself faced with the same objection, at the same time, from both prosecution and defense. What a morning! He felt like turning the court over to a Cyber judge right here and now, and stomping back to his chambers. Let Holmes try getting along with a Cyber! The D.A.'s voice slashed into his thoughts. "The People object on the grounds that there is ample precedent in law for the type of court demonstration to which we have agreed..." "For example," spoke up the Professor, "People vs. Borth, #I N.Y., Supp. # -- The District Attorney blinked, and looked wary again. "The People are not familiar with the citation," he said, "but there is no reason to be in doubt. The revised Judicial Code of Procedure provides for automatic and immediate review of disputed points of law by the Cyber Appellate Division." tomarily used every legal stratagem to avoid the indignity of appearneatly trapped. Grumbling, he visaphoned the Presiding Judge, and was immefourth floor. Cyber V presided over a sunlit, pleasantly carpeted courtroom in the south wing of the Justice Building. Square, bulky, with mat black finish, the Cyber reposed in the center of a raised mahogany stand. Its screen and vocader grill looked austerely down on the long tables provided for opposing counsel. As Walhfred Anderson belligerently led the Professor and the D.A. into the courtroom. Cyber V hummed softly. A dozen colored lights on its front grid began to blink. Judge Anderson angrily repressed an instinct to bow, as he had done in his younger years when appearing to plead a case before a human Appellate Court. The Cyber's soft, pleasantly modulated voice said: "Please proceed." Curbing his roiled feelings of rage and indignity, the Judge stepped to the stand in front of the vocader grill and tersely presented the facts of the case, the reasons for his ruling. Cyber V blinked and hummed steadily, assimilating and filing the facts. The D.A. followed the Judge to the stand, and, from long habity addressed Cyber V with the same emotion and voice tricks he would have used in speaking to a human judge. Walhfred Anderson grimaced with disgust. When the D.A. finished. Cyber V hummed briefly, two amber lights flickered, and the soft voice said: "Defense counsel will please take the stand." Professor Neustadt smiled his ironic, exasperating smile. "The defense stipulates to the facts as stated." The frontal grid lights on Cyber V flashed furiously; the hum rose to a whine, like a motor accelerating for a steep climb. Suddenly, all was quiet, and Cyber V spoke in the same soft, pleasant voice: "There are three cases in modem jurisprudence that have direct bearing on the matter of People vs. Neustadt. "Best known is the case of People vs. Borth, #I N.Y., Supp. #..." Walhfred Anderson saw the D.A. stiffen to attention as the Cyber repeated the citation given by Professor Neustadt. He felt his own pulse surge with the stir of a faint, indefinable hope. "There are also the cases of Forsythe vs. State, # Ohio, #, and Murphy vs. U.S., #d, # C.C.A. "These cases establish precedence for a courtroom demonstration to determine points of material fact. "Thank you, Gentlemen." The voice stopped. All lights rendered its decision. Whatever misgivings the D.A. may have generated over the Professor's display of legal knowledge were overshadowed now by his satisfaction at this display of Cyber efficiency. "Eight minutes!" he announced triumphantly. "Eight minutes to present the facts of the case and obtain a ruling. There's efficiency for you! There's modern courtroom procedure!" Walhfred Anderson felt the weight of eighty-six years as he cocked the angle of his bow tie, squared his shoulders and led the way back to his own courtroom. Maybe the new way was right. Maybe he was just an old man, burdened with dreams, memories, the impedimentia of human emotions. It would have taken him many long, weary hours to dig out those cases. Maybe the old way had died with Holmes and the other giants of that era. Details of the demonstration were quickly concluded. The D.A. selected a Cyber IX for the test. Evidently he had acquired a new respect for Professor Neustadt and was taking no chances. Cyber IX was a massive new model, used as an intergrator by the sciences. Judge Anderson had heard that its memory storage units were the greatest yet devised. If Professor Neustadt had also heard this, he gave no sign of it. He made only a slight, contemptuous nod of assent to the D.A.'s choice. For an instant, the Judge found himself hoping that the Professor would be beaten into humility by Cyber IX. The man's attitude was maddening. Walhfred Anderson banged his gavel harder than necessary, and recessed the hearing for three days. In the meantime, a Cyber IX was to be moved into the courtroom and placed under guard. Professor Neustadt was freed on bail, which he had already posted. Court fax-sheet reporters picked up the story and ballooned it. The D.A.'s office released publicity stories almost hourly. Cartoonists created "Battle of the Century" illustrations, with Cyber IX and Professor Neustadt posed like fighters in opposite comers of the ring. "Man challenges machine" was the caption, indicating that the Professor was a definite underdog and thus the sentimental favorite. One court reporter confided to Judge Anderson that bookmakers were offering odds of ten to one on Cyber IX. To the Judge's continuing disgust, Professor Neustadt seemed as avid as the Prosecutor's office for publicity. He allowed himself to be guest-interviewed on every available television show; one program dug up an ancient film of the Professor as a quiz kid, extracting cube roots in a piping, confident voice. Public interest boiled. TV coverage of the court test was demanded, and eagerly agreed to by both the Prosecutor and Professor Neustadt. Walhfred Anderson ached to cry out against bringing a carnival atmosphere into his courtroom; the fax photographers were bad enough. But he knew that any attempt to interfere would bring him back before that inroom on the morning of the trial, the Judge wore a new bow tie, a flippant green, but he felt like many a defendant he had watched step up before his bench to receive sentence. After this morning, there'd be no stopping the D.A.'s campaign for Cyber judges. He glared unhappily at the battery of television cameras. He noted that one of them was pointed at Oliver Wendell Holmes. The Justice didn't seem to mind; but who would -- all safe and snug in a nice gold frame? Easy enough for Holmes to look so cocky. The bright lights hurt his eyes, and he had to steel himself in order to present the picture of dignified equanimity that was expected of a judge. People would be looking at him from every part of the ers, one of the columnists had estimated. Professor Neustadt appeared in the same shiny brown suit. As he passed the huge Cyber IX unit, metallic gray and mounted on a table of reinforced steel, the Professor paused and bowed, in the manner of a courtly gladiator saluting a respected foe. Spectators clapped and whistled their approval. Television cameras zoomed in on the scene. With easy showmanship, Professor Neustadt maintained the pose for closeups, his owlish eyes wide and unblinking. Judge Anderson banged his gavel for order. What a poseur! What a fraud! This charlatan of publicity out of the case. At a nod from the D.A., the bailiff gave Professor Neustadt a pad of paper on which to note his answers. It had been previously been agreed that Cyber IX would answer visually, on the screen, instead of by vocader. The Professor was seated at the far end of the counsel table, where he could not see the screen. Clerks with stopwatches were stationed behind the Professor and Cyber IX. "Is the defendant ready?" inquired Judge Anderson, feeling like an idiot. "Of course." The Judge turned to Cyber IX, then caught himself. He flushed. The courtroom tittered. The District Attorney had five questions, each in a sealed envelope, which also contained . an answer certified by an eminent authority in the field. With a flourish, keeping his profile to the cameras, the D.A. handed the first envelope to Judge Anderson. "We'll begin with a simple problem in mathematics," he announced to the TV audience. From the smirk in his voice, Judge Anderson was prepared for the worst. But he read the question with a perverse sense of satisfaction. This Professor was in for a very rough morning. He cleared his throat, read aloud: "In analyzing the economics of atomic power plant operation, calculate ihe gross heat input for a power generating plant of # x # watts electrical output." Cyber IX hummed into instantaneous activity; its lights flashed in sweeping curves and spirals across the frontal grid. Professor Neustadt sat perfectly still, eyes closed. Then he scribbled something on a pad of paper. Two stopwatches clicked about a second apart. The clerk handed the Professor's slip of paper to Judged Anderson. The Judge checked it, turned to the screen. Both answers were indentical: Time was announced as fourteen seconds for Cyber IX; fifteen and three-tenths seconds for Professor Neustadt. The Cyber had won the first test, but by an astoundingly close margin. The courtroom burst into spontaneous applause for the Professor. Walhfred Anderson was incredulous. What a fantastic performance! No longer smirking, the D.A. handed the Judge a second envelope. "What is the percentage compressibility of caesium under # atmospheres of pressure, and how do you account for it?" Once again Cyber IX hummed and flickered into action. And once again Professor Neustadt sat utterly still, head tilted back like an inquisitive parakeet. Then he wrote swiftly. A stopwatch clicked. Walhfred Anderson took the answer with trembling fingers. He saw the D.A. rub dry lips together, try to moisten them with a dry tongue. A second stopwatch clicked. The Judge compared the correct answer with the Professor's answer and the answer on the screen. All were worded differently, but in essence were the same. Hiding his emotion in a tone gruffer than usual, Judge Anderson read the Professor's answer: "The change in volume is # percent. It is due to an electronic transition for a #s zone to a #d zone." The Professor's elapsed time was # seconds. Cyber IX had taken #I seconds to answer the compound question. Professor Neustadt pursued his lips; he seemed displeased with his tremendous performance. Moving with the agility of a pallbearer, the D.A. gave Judge Anderson the third question: "In twenty-five words or less, state the Nernst Law of thermodynamics." This was clearly a trick question, designed to trap a human mind in its own verbiage. Cyber IX won, in eighteen seconds. But in just two-fifths of a second more; Professor Neustadt twenty-four word condensation: "The entropy of a substance becomes zero at the absolute zero of temperature, provided it is brought to this temperature by a reversible process." A tabulation of total elapsed time revealed that Professor Neustadt was leading by nine and three-tenths seconds. A wild excitement blended with the Judge's incredulity. The D.A. seemed to have developed a tic in his right check. On the fourth question, dealing with the structural formula similarities of dimenhydrinate and diphenhydramine hydrochloride. Professor Neustadt lost three seconds. On the fifth question, concerning the theoretical effects of humidity inversion on microwave transmission, the Professor gained back a full second. The courtroom was bedlam, and Walhfred Anderson was too excited to pound his gavel. In the glass-walled, soundproofed television booths, announcers grew apoplectic as they tried to relay the fever-pitch excitement of the courtroom to the outside world. Professor Neustadt held up his bone-thin hand for silence. "May it please the Court... The District Attorney agreed that in the event of victory I could ask Cyber IX an optional question. I would like to do so at this time." Judge Anderson could only nod, and hope that his bulldog features were concealing his emotions. The D.A. kept his back rigidly to the television cameras. Professor Neustadtstrutted up to Cyber IX, flipped on the vocader switch and turned to the cameras. "Since Cyber IX is essentially a scientific integrator and mathematical unit' he began pedantically, "I'll put my question in the Cyber's own framework. Had another Cyber been selected for this test, I would phrase my question differently." He turned challengingly back to Cyber IX, paused for dramatic effect, and asked: "What are the magnitudes of a dream?" Cyber IX hummed and twinkled. The hum rose higher and higher. The lights flickered in weird, disjointed patterns, blurring before the eye. Abruptly, the hum stopped. The lights dimmed, faded one by one. The eternally calm, eternally pleasant voice of Cyber IX spoke from the vocader grill: "Problem unsolved." F or an interminable instant there was silence in the courtroom. Complete silence. Stunned incredulity. It was followed by a collective gasp, which Walhfred Anderson could hear echoing around the world. Cyber IX had been more than beaten ; it had failed to solve a problem. The gasp gave way to unrestrained cheering. But the Professor brought quiet again by raising his bony hand. Now there was a strange, incongruous air of dignity about his thin figure. "Please," he said, "please understand one thing... The purpose of this demonstration and my question was not to discredit Cyber IX, which is truly a great machine, a wonder of science. "Cyber IX could not know the magnitudes of a dream... because it cannot dream. "As a matter of fact, I do not know the magnitudes of a dream, but that is not important... because I can dream! "The dream is the difference... The dream born in man, as the poet said, 'with a sudden, clamorous pain'..." There was no movement or sound in the courtroom. Walhfred Anderson held the Professor's last written answer between his fingers, as if fearing that even the small movement to release it might shatter something delicate and precious. "The dream is the difference!" There it was. So clear and true and beautiful. He looked at Holmes, and Holmes seemed to be smiling under his gray mustache. Yes, Holmes had known the dream. In the sound-proof booths, the announcers had stopped speaking; all mike lines were open to carry Professor Neustadt's words to five "Perhaps there are no magnitudes of such a dream... no coordinates! Or it may be that we are not yet wise enough to know them. The future may tell us, for the dream is the rainbow bridge from the present and the past to the future." Professor Neustadt's eyes were half-closed again, and his head was cocked back, bird-like. "Copernicus dreamed a dream... So did da Vinci, Galileo and Newton, Darwin and Einstein... all so long ago... "Cyber IX has not dreamed a "But they can free men to dream. "Remember that, if you forget all else: They can free men to dream ! "Man's knowledge has grown so vast that much of it would be lost or useless without the storage and recall capacity of the Cybers -- and man himself would be so immersed in what he knows that he would never have time to dream of that which he does not yet know, but must and can know. "Why should not the scientist use the past without being burdened by it? Why should not the lawyer and the judge use the hardwon laws of justice without being the slave of dusty law books?" Walhfred Anderson accepted the rebuke without wincing. The rebuke for all the hours he had wasted because he had been too stubborn to use a Cyber clerk, or consult Cyber V. The old should not resist the new, nor the new destroy the old. There was the letter of the law, and there was the spirit, and the spirit was the dream. What was old Hammurabi's dream? Holmes had quoted it once. "... to establish justice on the earth... to hold back the strong from oppressing the feeble... to shine like the sun-god upon the blackheaded men, and to illumine the land..." Holmes had dreamed the dream, all right. He had dreamed it grandly. But maybe there was room for small dreams, too, and still time for dreams when the years were so few and lonely. The Professor suddenly opened his eyes, and his voice took on the twang of steel under tension. "You are already wondering," he told the cameras accusingly, "whether I have not disproved my own words by defeating Cyber IX. "That is not true. "I defeated Cyber IX because I have wasted a man's life -- my own! You all know that as a child I was a mnemonic freak, a prodigy, if you prefer. My mind was a filing cabinet, a fire-proof cabinet neatly filled with facts that could never kindle into dreams. All my life I have stuffed my filing cabinet. For sixty years I have filed and filed. "And then I dreamed one dream -- my first, last and only dream. "I dreamed that man would misuse another gift of science, as he has mis-used so many... I dreamed of the Cybers replacing and enslaving man, instead of freeing man to dream... And I dreamed that the golden hour would come when a man would have to prove that he could replace a Cyber -- and thereby prove that neither man nor Cybers should ever replace each other." Professor Neustadt turned to Judge Anderson, and his voice dropped almost to a whisper. "Your Honor, I move that this case be dismissed." The worn handle of his old teakwood gavel felt warm and alive to the Judge's fingers. He sat up straight, and banged resoundingly on the top of his desk. "Case dismissed." Then, in full view of the cameras, Walhfred Anderson turned and winked boldly at Oliver Wendell Holmes.    A series of "incidents" had provoked a state of emergency between two great powers. T he reason was obvious. But why a single chemist as bait -- and who was the third party?...The #th award winner in IP's College Science Fiction Contest. BY Illustrated by Kelly Frees windows of the terminal building. The howling of the wind around the corners of the building and across the broad expanse of the rocket field went unheard by the thousands who streamed across the crowded floor. Each was intent on his or her affairs, hurrying to board one of the tall spires out on the snow covered field, seeing someone off, or waiting for incoming friends. Roger Lorin and his wife waited near the entrances to the boarding tunnels for the announcement that would send them out under the field to their rocket. The shouts of porters and the voices of excited passengers mingled with the noises of the terminal. Groups of people moved across the floor like the currents of the ocean. Suddenly, the announcer's voice boomed out over the p. a. "All passengers for the Arctic City rocket report to tunnel seven." "Come on Linda," Roger said. "That's our ship." He hurried his wife toward the tunnel entrance. A few minutes later they stepped off the conveyer walk at the bottom of an elevator shaft. The gray uniformed attendant checked their tickets, before the glass cage lifted them to the lock entrance high on the side of the rocket. The wind sang its mournful song around the corners of the cage and fired volleys of snow against the glass. At the air lock entrance, a stewardess checked their tickets a second time. "Couches # and #? Follow me, please." She led them up one deck and over to a pair of couches, one of which was next to a small eyeport. "Take the one next to the port, honey," said Roger. "The view's worth seeing." A moment later, a buzzer sounded, and a red light flashed on near the hatch to the deck above. The voice of the pilot came over the intercom system. "We are blasting off in five minutes. All passengers who have not strapped in will please do so immediately." Three minutes went by, and the final warning buzzer sounded. After another two minutes, the rumble of the motors came from the tail of the ship. The rocket, a towering silver needle with orange flame spouting from its lower end, paused on the field as its motors warmed up. Then it rose majestically on a column of fire and disappeared in the swirling snow. Linda was surprised to find that the sound of the blast off was not as loud as she had expected. Neither did she find the acceleration of two and a half gravities excessively uncomfortable. The brightly lighted compartment made the scene outside the eyeport seem dark; although it was only fourthirty in the afternoon. Tiny pellets of snow streamed by the port during the few seconds it took the rocket to scream through the lower atmosphere. Then the ship burst through the clouds. Linda gave an exclamation of surprise and pleasure at the sheer beauty of the sight. The clouds rose like tumbled snowy mountain ranges under an ice blue winter sky. The setting sun painted orange, and violet. Their eastern sides lay in blue shadow honeycombed with caves and grottos. "It's beautiful!" exclaimed Linda. "I never dreamed it would be like this." "You have to see it to really appreciate it," Roger said. "Descriptions never do it justice." As the rocket continued to rise, the clouds flattened until they resembled pack ice on an arctic sea. More of Earth became visible, and spots of green and brown appeared on the southwestern horizon. Finally the blue of the Pacific crept into the now black sky. "You may be able to see a few stars if you don't look toward Earth or the sun," Roger said to Linda. Linda followed Roger's instructions; and, sure enough, a few stars appeared, unwinking points of light against black velvet. Now over three hundred miles above Earth, the rocket had crossed the frontier into outer space. The rocket passed the top of its arc and the scenery was forgotten; the natural fear of falling to which all humans are heir asserted itself. Linda suddenly realized that there was no sensation of weight and that the rocket was falling steadily through space. "Is... is everything all right?" she asked in a weak voice. "Don't worry dear," Roger replied soothingly. "We'll be landing in another half hour. You won't have to go through much more of it." "Thank goodness!" Linda breathed a sigh of relief and laid her dark head on Roger's shoulder. Roger put his arm around her and held her until the rocket came in with a squeal of runners against hard packed snow. Lights flashed by the eyeport as they slid along the runway. In the distance the lighted, slablike towers of Arctic City loomed against the dark sky. The night was clear and bitterly cold. The rocket slid to a stop, and an electric tractor came to tow the ship to the top of an elevator shaft. A few minutes later the passengers streamed along a conveyer walk into the Arctic City terminal. The sounds of hurried activity echoed through the tunnel. The rumble of heavy freight conveyers, the shouts of stevedores, the whine of heavily loaded electric motors, and the hum of conversation mingled in a medley of sounds that spoke of commerce and industry, of people busy at an almost endless array of tasks. "Are you Roger Lorin?" The question came from a short, stocky, gray-haired individual. "Yes, I am," Roger replied. "I'm Jacob Darcy. I'm supposed to show you to your apartment and help you get oriented." ; "Good," Roger said. "You lead. We'll follow." Darcy turned and led them to a small electric monorail car which sped them through a maze of underground streets past the windows of many shops and stores. After a ten minute ride in the monorail and a fast ascent in an elevator, the three of them entered a small apartment high in one of the slablike buildings. The apartment was comfortable and compact, though not luxuriously furnished. One transparent wall of the living room looked out over the city and the arctic landscape. "I thought things would be more primitive," said Linda as she looked around her future home. "This doesn't seem like a frontier at all." "No," Darcy replied with a smile. "Arctic City is pretty well built up. Conditions are a lot better here than they are in some of the mining centers farther north." He turned to Roger. "Til be around tomorrow morning to show you the labs. Sometime around eight or eight thirty." "I'll be ready," replied Roger. "It should be interesting to see the facilities here." "I suppose the high temperature work will be most interesting to you," said Darcy. "I read your paper on molecular linkages. We'll sure be able to use you. We're having the devil's own time with the linings for the reaction chambers in the neutron pile." "I hope I can help," said Roger. "The cooling problem should be quite a challenge without the extreme temperatures and high vacuum that we had at the moon labs." "That's right. You did work on the first neutron pile, didn't you?" Darcy said as he prepared to leave. "That makes it much better. There are too few men with practical experience in neutron pile work." It had long been known by physicists that tremendous amounts of energy could be released if matter could be collapsed to form neutrons. This step had been achieved in # A. D., at the Lunar atomic laboratories. The Arctic City pile was the first attempt to apply it to industrial uses. Up to this time (#) , man had been barred from the planets by the lack of a fuel cheap enough to make trips across interplanetary space economically feasible. Long, economical orbits could be used; but these brought on psychological problems resulting from living in cramped quarters for long periods of time, and problems of carrying enough supplies for such long trips. In shorter orbits, the profits would be burned up in excessive fuel consumption. The most efficient fuel was monatomic hydrogen, which is highly unstable unless dissolved in a catalyst to keep it from exploding at ordinary temperatures. The catalyst and the process for making the fuel were both expensive. Moon colonies were maintained only because the moon was the best known source of germanium; and its vacuum was a valuable location for astronomical observatories and atomic research laboratories. The neutron pile applied to space travel would make an interplanetary civilization possible. The pile, releasing neutrons and ions at velocities approaching that of light, would make use of small amounts of inexpensive materials as fuels. It also had frightening potentialities for mass destruction. The ambassador of the South American Republic thought of the destructive possibilities as he rode the small monorail car toward the Government Center in Chicago, which was now the capital of the North American Union. The shore of Lake Michigan was studded with tall skyscrapers connected by streets with transparent coverings. At ground level, a system of conveyer walks ranging from the hundred mile per hour strips in the center to five mile per hour strips on the edges, whisked brightly clad people about their business. On the second level, monorail tracks carried the high speed freight and passenger traffic of the city. The ambassador's car pulled in at a second level siding near the loading platform for the Government Tower. As he stepped from his car, he was met by two secret service agents who escorted him to the office of the Secretary of State. The Secretary sat behind a large desk in a comfortably furnished office on the eightieth floor. Through the large window wall behind the Secretary, the scattered towers of the city were somewhat obscured by flying snow and the gloom of a December morning. The distinguished looking man behind the desk had served his country well during the past thirty years. He knew the problems faced l#y such nations as the South American Republic, the League of Islam, the Asian Commonwealth, the decadent subject nations of western Europe, and the tiny, constantly warring states that comprise what was left of the once mighty U.S.S.R. That morning he had sent a note refusing help to the Baltic Federation, which had accused the Arctic League of aggression. The North American Union had no desire to enter foreign wars that did not concern it. The Secretary rose and extended his hand. "Good morning," he greeted the ambassador as he shook hands with him. "Have a seat." The Secretary waved toward a comfortable chair near the desk. The ambassador seated himself with his overcoat across his knees. "I cannot get used to your cold weather," he said good naturedly. I have spent too much time in the tropics." "We seem to be getting an unusually cold winter," the Secretary replied. "I'll have to admit that Chicago doesn't compare with Rio as far as weather is concerned." "I wish that I were there now," the ambassador said in a more serious tone. "I would not have to discuss with you this trouble that has come up." "What trouble?" the Secretary asked. "Your note wasn't clear about what you wished to discuss with me." "As you probably know, there are groups in my country that fear the technical developments that have been going on during the past ten years," the ambassador replied. "They do not know your country as well as I do, and fear that you will use the neutron energy discovery as a weapon." "Why should they fear our energy developments?" the Secretary asked. "The Lunar atomic laboratories are open for inspection at all times, and the pile being built in the Arctic is no secret either. All the developments are private ventures. The idea of making neutron bombs hasn't even been raised in Congress." "Unfortunately my people do not know this," replied the ambassador. "These groups have used much propaganda and have thoroughly misled the masses. That the laboratories are located on the moon does not help. You know how rigid the requirements are for those who would travel in space. Several men from my country have not been allowed to go for health reasons. This naturally feeds the suspicions of my people, who do not understand why such things must be done. To remedy this trouble my government has instructed me to arrange for a meeting between our presidents." "I think such a meeting would be possible," the Secretary said. "I'm sure that the president will understand the situation. The memory of the twentieth century won't fade easily. I'll see if a trip to the Lunar laboratories can be arranged. It would be good if some members of the dissatisfied groups were allowed to make the trip." "That would be very good," replied the ambassador. "It would help to counteract their propaganda. They are seeking power, and would gain it at the expense of good will between our nations. This will very effectively remove the source of their grievances." "I'll bring it up at the cabinet meeting this afternoon," the Secretary said. "It would be wisest to get this business moving as fast as possible." The ambassador rose from his seat. "You will let me know the outcome of the meeting as soon as you can?" "Yes," replied the Secretary. "As soon as it's over." T he laboratories at Arctic City were fairly new but already had the cluttered appearance of all research labs. Electronic instruments, coils of wire, and various articles of chemical apparatus lay on the work benches. One room held the dial-studded face of a computer. Another contained several induction and carbon arc furnaces used in high temperature work. Men wearing white smocks or plastic aprons went quietly and efficiently about their tasks. Roger and Darcy entered a lab in which a man sat staring at the face of an oscilloscope, where weird figures danced in yellowish-green tracery. The bench was covered with a bewildering array of equipment. A row of gas discharge tubes glowed with varicolored light. From them a spaghetti-like arrangement of many colored wires led to various instruments scattered along the bench. "How's it coming, Phil?" Darcy asked. The man looked up from his work. "Hi, Jake," he said. "I might get somewhere if this oscillator would stop wandering all over the place. This thing doesn't seem to be very accurate at high frequencies." He indicated a piece of equipment connected to Ae oscilloscope. "I'll sure be glad when we get a good physical chemist to do this work. My business is ceramics, and I'm getting sick and tired of wrestling with his wiring." "Well," said Darcy, "you won't have to worry about this any more. This is Roger Lorin, our new physical chemist. Roger, this is Philip Gordon, our ceramics expert." Gordon grinned and extended his hand. "I'm glad to meet you," he said. "Sorry I blew off like that. I just get disgusted sometimes." "It does get frustrating," Roger agreed as they shook hands. "Electronics is rather tricky." "You're right there," replied Gordon. "Especially when you don't know too much about it. What I learned about electronics in college has long since departed. Take a look at this set up. It's about as poor a job of haywiring as you'll find anywhere." "I see you're using high frequency excitation to get your high temperatures," Roger commented. "Just what compounds are you working with?" "I've been working with some plastics, inert stuff, to see just what they'll react with, and how fast they'll react at high temperatures." "It isn't too easy," Lorin said. "It never has been easy to find reaction rates. I'll get to work on these this afternoon. Maybe I can get some of these finished tomorrow or the next day." "Thanks," Gordon said in a relieved voice. "It'll be good to get some results I can rely on." Lorin and Darcy left the lab and walked through a winding succession of corridors until they came to a large room. One wall was lined with catwalks linked by metal ladders. Men in coveralls moved against the slate gray backgroimd like insects on the side of a building. Through a door to their right Lorin could see banks of instruments at which several men were working. "This is the south face of the pile," Darcy said. "Most of the instruments are located here. The Klysten converters are mounted in that room over there." He indicated a door on their left. "I'd like to see those," Roger said. "I hear that these are pretty large compared with what we had at the moon labs." "They're big enough all right," Darcy said. "Each one is four stories high. We had a deuce of a time evacuating them." As Darcy said this, they stepped into a long high room. To their right stood six immense transparent tubes. Each tube contained a grid of thick steel bars which was mounted so that it completely surrounded a coil of heavy copper bar in the center of the tube. The steel bars had been treated so that a magnetic field would build up rapidly when they were exposed to hard radiations. The radiation beams were passed into the grid in pulses, thus causing the magnetic field to build up and collapse rapidly producing current in the coils by induction. The tubes were generators with no moving parts except electrons and protons. The system used about seventy-five per cent of the energy produced by the pile. The residual radiation was released as greenish yellow light. "Why are they transparent?" Roger asked. "I should think that metals would be stronger and easier to manage." "The transparency helps us to maintain a more accurate control " Darcy replied. "When the light shifts toward the blue, we know that more energy is being released as radiation, and can shut down the tube before it gets a chance to heat up too much." "Good idea," said Roger. "Control was our worst trouble at the moon labs." "We'll use this until we find something better," said Darcy as they left the pile area. events which would shape the course of the next few weeks, and would ultimately change his whole life were taking place far to the south. A third party had entered the political stage of the Western Hemisphere. The League of Islam had finally decided to do something about an incident which it had never forgiven. Over thirty years earlier, the Union had sent marines into the Suez Canal area to stop alleged assaults against American citizens. In a sense, the North American Union had indicated that it thought of the League of Islam as nothing more than a backward group, which could be pacified whenever trouble arose within its borders. The insult had never been forgotten by the fanatically nationalistic Moslems. Only the greater military might of the North American power had prevented a war at that time. Now, the League had decided that the time was ripe to gain immunity from such insults forever by some shrewd political maneuvering. Working through a small dissatisfied political party in South America, they used the North's development of neutron energy to create fear in the minds of the people of the southern republic. By stimulating this fear, the Arabs hoped to weaken both powers through war, and thereby to gain power and prestige among the nations. The League hoped to gain through political devices what it could never get in open war. Up to January #, #, the leaders of the western hemispheric powers did not realize what was actually taking place. But then reports began coming into the offices of the investigators of both nations which changed the picture. On January #, an American oil well in the Gulf of Mexico had been blown up. The saboteur was not caught, since the bomb had been cleverly hidden sometime before the explosion. Two days later, in the state of Venezuela, an official of the South American government was shot and killed. Although the assassin escaped after a grueling two day chase and was never really identified, there were plenty of rumor mongers to remind the people that the dead official had held opinions that were not favorable to the North American Union. Accompanied by such incidents friction between the two nations grew. The events that set the pot to boiling, and nearly caused it to boil over occurred at Arctic City. Up to this time, Roger Lorin had considered the reports of such incidents as news that seemed rather unreal, because of its distance from his immediate affairs. Now, however, he found himself in the middle of the trouble between the two nations. Although he scarcely knew it, he had become a key man on the neutron pile project. His research into the physics of interatomic and intermolecular forces had aided materially the work on the pile. It started, innocently enough, during the early afternoon of January #, when a group of ten men ostensibly bound for a mining town farther north, took a guided tom of the pile area. About one sixth of the reaction cells into which the pile was divided for convenience, were in operation; and the six converter tubes were aglow with greenish yellow light. The entrance of the men into the central chamber was the signal. A previously planted bomb exploded with enough vioconverter room with greenish yellow fire and hard radiations. A smoke bomb provided extra screening and the group hurried down a side tunnel under cover of the gray mantle. Roger heard the sounds of confusion accompanied by the clangor of an alarm bell, announcing that hard radiations were loose somewhere in the plant. He stepped to the door of the lab, and a gas gun exploded in his face. He knew nothing more, until he awoke aboard a fast moving jet. The convertiplane winged through the Arctic twilight for nearly two hours, and finally came down on a flat stretch of snow covered tundra, near the shore of the Arctic Ocean. A group of three dome huts stood at the base of a low cliff. Otherwise, the scene was one of silent, dark desolation. One of the men handed Roger a pair of insulated, electrically heated coveralls. Roger put them on without argument. Next, the man motioned toward the hatch with a machine pistol. "Get movin'," he snapped. "Make it quick. And don't try to run for it. You wouldn't get far." Roger dropped through the hatch and waited quietly. When his captors finally dropped through the hatch, they steered him none too gently toward the middle hut. On his right as he entered, three men sat playing cards around a small table. To his left, a man lay on a cot reading a magazine by the light of a mining lantern. Roger was shoved across the main room, through a passageway and into a room on the right. The metal door clanged shut behind him, and the bolt shot home with the finality of a prison gate. "Well, I see I have company," a voice came out of the gloom. As Roger's eyes grew accustomed to the dimness, he saw an old man sitting on the edge of a narrow cot. "Who are you?" Roger asked in a bewildered voice. "And just what's been going on? Why should I be kidnapped and brought to this God forsaken spot?" "You must be the chemist they were talking about," the old man replied. "I heard them say something about one of the chief chemists at the neutron pile project. As for me, my name is Dr. Alexander Nolan. I came up here in my plane about a month ago to write up some historical research I've been doing during the past five years. Instead, your kidnappers came in and took over. But here I am rambling on about myself as usual. What's your name, young fellow?" "I'm Roger Lorin," Roger replied. "I'm a chemist all right. I was working at Arctic City on the neutron project, but I still can't figure out why I should be kidnapped. They couldn't get any ransom, and I don't have any information that would be useful to them. I just don't see it." "Roger Lorin, eh," the historian mused. "I think I see why you were kidnapped. You're more important than you think you are, which is unusual. Most men think that they are more important than they really are. I suppose you've heard about the oil well that was blown up in the Gulf of Mexico and the man who was shot and killed down in Venezuela. Now, if some North American Citizen were to be found dead, possibly tortured for information about the neutron pile, it might be just the spark that sets off the powder keg that's been building up during the past ten years." "But why should South America do anything like that?" Roger asked nervously. "They have nothing to gain by such actions. We've shared the information on pile developments since the projects were started." "Oh, but South America is not the power behind this business," Nolan said gently. "I'll admit that the evidence seems to point to South America, but I have reasons to believe that another power is behind this." "But which one could it be?" asked Roger. "Indications point to the League of Islam," replied Nolan. "They are clever, but a student of political history can get some insight into their plans if he looks carefully enough. If you're interested, I can give you some background." "Go ahead," Roger said. "I'd like to find out what's behind this." "Well," the historian began. "I guess that you could say that this story goes back # years. The hatred between the Jews and the Arabs goes back that far, and it plays an important part in the present situation. Actually the seeds of the present trouble were planted more than a hundred years ago, when the United States helped the Jews set up a republic on land that the Arabs considered theirs. When the republic of Israel was established, many Arabs were driven from their homes. Added to this, American economic aid to Israel didn't help our relations with the Arab world. As a result, the fifties and sixties of the last century were a time of unrest throughout the Middle East. "A short war between Israel and the Arab States lasted from # to #. The Arabs lost out, but border incidents occurred intermittently until #. After the United States and Russia were involved in the Two Week Chaos, the Arab League moved against Israel. The Arabs had grown in strength during the preceding twenty years and were able to push the Jews out of Palestine or put them under their control. "Under agreements made in the United Nations, the United States sent an expeditionary force to the Holy Land. The whole affair was a debacle. America had been weakened by the atom bombing of many of her cities and military establishments. Russia was also out of the running. After the death of Malenkov in #, one of the party leaders had tried to bring union by starting a war. After American retaliation with hydrogen and atom bombs, the growing resentment of the Russian people against an undesirable system exploded into open revolt. The Soviet Union became a disorganized crazy-quilt pattern of small, constantly warring states. "On top of the destruction of atomic war, came the great economic collapse of #. The financial structure of the United States and her allies fell apart, and with it the United Nations went down into oblivion. The states of the Arab League could now do much as they pleased without outside interference. "The Two Week Chaos and the great collapse incapacitated the western powers for nearly thirty years. The Arab States prospered and formed the League of Islam in #. The League covered the eastern end of the Mediterranean and the coast of North Africa. During this period. South America had formed the South American Republic and became a world power. "The North American Union, which was formed in #, wished to take up where the United States had left off in the development of Arabian oil. The Arabs, who had developed the fields themselves with help from South America, had no desire for North American intervention. The Americans, who had a long term lease signed in the up so easily, and hard feeling developed. The Suez incident of thirty years ago and the American control of the moon and the satellite stations didn't help matters any. "When the Americans finished the first satellite station in # and landed the first rocket on the moon in #, the Arabs became apprehensive and made known their wish to build a spaceport in the Sahara Desert. The North American Union, which had a monopoly on rocket building facilities, refused to allow it, out of fear of the growing strength of the Arabs. I think that that was a serious mistake. The sight of the satellites passing overhead, plus the knowledge that they belong to an unfriendly power doesn't help to create good will. The fact that the moon has an independent government makes it worse. The leaders of Islam know that the Lunar government wouldn't allow nationalism in space. I guess you know how the Lunar citizens feel about the North American monopoly on space travel." "They don't like it," Roger said. "They feel that they could be more independent if they were receiving supplies from more than one source. Lunar government is nothing more than a form, set up by the North American Union to keep up appearances. The moon isn't self sufficient enough to make its independence more than a form. If the Lunar colonies could trade with more than one nation, they could maintain their independence by the moon's natural defensive position; and control of the satellite stations would help to ease international tensions. There's not much chance of a dictatorship being formed there, because the colonists are too individualistic and are interested in their government. It looks to me like both sides are at fault in this mess." "That's usually the case' the historian commented. "The Arabs aren't free of blame either. Some of their tactics in the Holy Land weren't exactly calculated to win the good will of the United States, and they have been rather violent in some of their dealings with our citizens." The conversation was interrupted when one of their captors opened the door a few inches and slid two cans of food concentrate through the crack. "I see dinner has arrived," Nolan said as he stepped over to the door and picked up the containers. He handed one to Roger, and the two men removed the tops. In a few minutes a coil in the sides of each container heated the contents, and the prisoners ate a warm if uninspiring meal. Plastic spoons fastened to the sides of the cans served as utensils. After they had finished the food, the two prisoners sat and discussed various topics until late in the evening, when they finally turned in. Outside, the temperature dropped to sixty degrees below zero. The stars sparkled with a outer space. Once the frosty stillness was broken by the whine of the jets of a cargo plane, hauling a train of ore gliders from the mines on an island farther north. In the front room of the center hut a guard sat, watching a number of television screens which showed the area around the camp bathed in infra red light. In front of the hut lay the convertiplane, a shining, bluish silver dart with its needle nose and swept back wings and tail. Near the cliffs back of the huts, Nolan's small two seater lay with its channel wings folded into the fuselage. At six, Roger was awakened roughly by one of the guards. He was given a can of concentrates which he ate quickly, his eyes straying now and then to the big machine pistol held by one of his captors. After Roger had eaten, he was ordered out to the plane and strapped into a seat, an armed guard beside him. With screaming jets blowing air over its channel wings, the convertiplane lifted from the snow and, a few minutes later, streaked into the dark sky under the power of its main jets. Three hours later they descended to the yard of a large house on the outskirts of Denver. The scattered buildings of the city lay on a blinding white blanket of snow that sparkled in the winter sun like minute jewels. Roger was hurried into the house and soon stood in the middle of a spacious living room, his hands held firmly by steel handcuffs. He faced a man with swarthy skin and dark hair, a typical Latin type. "Sehor Lorin," the South American said and motioned toward an easy chair. "Please be seated. Perhaps you are tired after your trip." "The trip was all right," Roger replied coldly, "though I don't like traveling against my will. I trust that the Arabs are paying you well for this little job." A momentary look of surprise crossed the man's handsome features, but he smiled quickly and said in an affable voice tinged with surprise. "Arabs? What do they have to do with this? I do not know any Arabs. You do me an injustice to think that I would work for any other country than my own." Hoping that the results would justify his confidence, Roger replied. "Quit trying to bluff. South Americans have no reason to kidnap me. They'd have absolutely nothing to gain and plenty to lose by such actions. Even if they could fight a long drawn out war with us, they'd lose in the end. Why most of your scientists and engineers receive their graduate schooling up here. I met quite a few of your countrymen during my school days." "You are an astute man," the South American smiled. "Yes, I am actually working for the League of Islam." He admitted it blandly without apparent conscience or remorse. "I can't say that I admire a man who'd sell his country, and not only that but the whole western hemisphere down the river. Did they pay you thirty pieces of silver?" Roger asked scornfully. "The stakes are much higher than that," the traitor replied, without apparently being affected by Roger's scorn. "An empire awaits those who are bold, greater power and riches than any ruler has even known before." "I thought that we had left that behind with the twentieth century." "The desire for power is always with us," the traitor, whose name was Manuel Juarez, said. "If I do not get it, someone else will. The struggle never ends." "Maybe that's true in some parts of the world," Roger said, "but we don't do things that way here." "Be that as it may," Juarez said with finality. "We won't speak of it again." Abruptly he turned his chair toward a blank wall and pressed a button on the arm of the chair. The whole wall lit up with stereo color, and the room resounded with the hum of a crowd of people. "Skiing is an interesting sport," Juarez commented. "I enjoy watching the skill with which the skiers perform in these tournaments." Roger and Juarez watched a symphony of graceful form and movement against a backdrop of snow, blue sky, and tall pines. Both men sat in chairs that moulded automatically to the shape of the body. Radiant heat bathed them in warmth that was a pleasant contrast to the wintry scene in the television wall. The instrument which showed them the ski tournament so clearly represented a force that had killed an entire industry eighty years earlier. The economic collapse and the development of good color stereo television had resulted in the complete destruction of the movie industry. Although there was still much poor entertainment on the air, any person could usually find entertainment to suit his taste, whether it was for adventure stories or Shakespeare, for popular music or the works of the great composers. R oger was held in the house for about a week and a half. Although he did not know why he was held for such a long time, he knew that he was being watched with unceasing vigilance. He had no chance to escape. Then suddenly the enforced inactivity was over. Juarez and two guards entered his room. All three were dressed in outdoor clothing and were armed. "You will come with us peacefully," Juarez warned. "If you try anything foolish, we will not hesitate to kill you. We have other plans for you, but your death here would serve our purpose." Roger went. They left the house and prepared to enter a small channel winged plane. The craft had a tear shaped body flanked by two pontoon-like cylinders. Each cylinder contained two small jet engines, one blowing a stream of air forward and the other blowing a stream backward across wing-like plates. The supersonic blasts gave the wings enough lift so that the plane could hover, rise vertically, or move forward or backward with equal ease. Such planes could attain a speed of # miles per hour. At this time, a small patrol plane of the same type was flying slowly through the area. Both of its occupants were thoroughly bored, and one of them began to look around through a pair of light amplifying binoculars. He spotted the abduction scene taking place below. Every detail, including Roger's handcuffs, was crystal clear. The patrolman, his curiosity aroused, switched to ultraviolet sensitivity, but saw none of the code numbers that appeared on the bodies of all police planes. Handcuffs and no police markings meant a check report to police headquarters. "Patrol #," the policeman reported into the radio. "There's a prisoner being held in Zone #. The plane has no police markings. The prisoner is about five feet, eleven inches tall, has light hair, a rather large nose, and is wearing a green jacket over gray coveralls. One of the other men is dark, short, and stocky." "That sounds like Roger Lorin," came the reply. "He disappeared from Arctic City about a week ago. There's a bulletin out on him. Keep a long distance watch on that plane." About an hour after they had taken off the fugitives, who were flying low, disappeared in the mountains and were lost to the police plane's radar. The sun set, and night settled its cold hand over the mountains. The stars glittered like icy diamonds in the almost black firmament. The moon bathed the world in cold silvery light. The mountains rose like walls against the cold, dark sky. The plane climbed out of a canyon and flew southwest along the side of a high peak. At treetop level, they flew through a high pass, and entered a valley where a small, ice-covered lake gleamed in the cold moonlight. The plane landed on the glittering ice. Among the pines on the west side of the lake, stood a stately hunting lodge. The outside was faced with logs to give it a rustic look, but the interior was luxuriously furnished. Two men from the lodge pushed the plane into a hangar on the lake shore, while Roger and his captors climbed a short flight of stairs and entered the building. "Now we wait," Juarez said disgustedly. "I hope that Gomez gets here soon, so that we can get this business over with and get out of here. I cannot be sure, but I thought I saw someone following us after we took off this morning." But he didn't get his wish. For the next three days, the men passed the time in various ways. Some went fishing through the ice on the lake, others watched television, still others played cards or pool in the game room. During this time the police were not idle. They staked out the house in Denver and waited. Their patience was rewarded when, on the second night, a small plane came down out of the dark sky and hovered over the landing area. A man dropped to the ground and headed toward the house, and the plane rose into the night with blue flame dancing from the ends of the wing cylinders, and headed back toward the mountains. A large police plane high above traced the flight of the small ship with infra red detectors and spotted the hideout of the fugitives. On the third night Miguel Gomez arrived. He was a big, strapping man unusually light complected for a South American. His greetings were loud and boisterous. 'Well, Juarez," he said loudly, "I see that you have our prisoner in good condition. But we can do nothing for awhile. A new plan has been developed. In one week, a rocket carrying high officials from our Republic will take off from the Chicago spaceport. These officials go to inspect the Lunar atomic laboratories. That rocket will crash, and the North Americans will be blamed. There will be evidence of general negligence with hints of sabotage. So! the fun will begin. If that does not work, we will use our friend, Lorin, here to top it off." That night they listened to a late newscast before going to bed. The situation was tense. The presidents' meeting had been postponed until after the inspection of the moon laboratories by the South American officials. There was talk of a general mobilization and a tightening of discipline at the military stations along the Mexican border and the gulf coast F ive hundred miles above the Earth, the polar weather station wheeled silently through space. A sphere two hundred feet in diameter, it was girded by a ring deck that was home to forty men and women. The big observation room was the real reason for the space station's existence. Here, the weathermen kept watch over the movements of Earth's atmosphere. The fluffy white clouds that appeared on their screens told a te of mass air movements that meant stormy or clear weather for the Earth below. An almost blinding white mass of cloud over Canada told of a cold front moving southward to collide with warm air from the Gulf of Mexico and unleash a blizzard over the plains of the Midwest. Tumbling clouds hid a storm that whipped the North Atlantic into a raging fury of white water. Clear areas showed where snow sparked under the winter sun or where soft tropical breezes ruffled the fronds of palm trees. The station was passing over the Pampas of Argentina on the day side of Earth when the incident occurred. Miriam Andrews, on duty at the time, sat watching the progress of a small rain squall. Suddenly a look of surprise crossed her rather plain features, and she turned the amplifier gain-knob of the light amplifying telescope to higher magnification. On the screen appeared a sprawling airport on which lay scores of large, box-like transport planes. Into the huge, channel winged craft flowed lines of robot controlled armored vehicles. Miriam, who had a keen mind and an interest in international affairs, recognized the dangerous possibilities of these preparations. She did not hesitate to call the station director. That individual was summoned from a deep sleep by the imperative buzzing of the intercom. He switched the instrument on, saw Miriam's excited face, and came fully awake with a feeling of alarm. Excitement on the part of station personnel was apt to mean deadly danger. He interrupted the excited girl. "Repeat that again and slow down." Miriam repeated her story. "I'll send a message when we get close enough to Chicago to use a tight beam," he said. "There's no use spreading that news all over the western hemisphere." With that he broke the connection and called the radio room to give instructions about the message. The station swept around the Earth untroubled by the gathering fury below. A rocket, a slender, blue steel, winged cone, blasted away from the station with a brief jets. The watches changed, and the weathermen continued to receive data, analyze it, and send it to the coordinating centers on Earth. Although most of the men on the station heard the news with the detachment of those whose main interest lies in space and on the moon, the North American government was not so calm. It was not long before big formations of box-like transports were headed southward with heavy loads of flying armored equipment, technicians, and troops. Flights of dart like interceptors patrolled the gulf area, ranging the blue skies at supersonic speeds. On the ground, rows of slim antiaircraft missiles stood like candles in a birthday cake. At the first flicker on a radar screen, they would scream skyward to intercept hydrogen and atom armed 'missiles at the borderline of space. Both powers made good resolutions of nonaggression, but the rest of the world watched the preparations with a skeptical eye. The weapons that could unleash the horrors of nuclear warfare at the flick of a switch stood in frightening array on both sides of the gulf. Meanwhile, the police prepared to close in on the mountain cabin. Equipped with gas bombs, machine pistols and recoiless rifles, they came struggling through a snow clogged pass and down the mountain sides from hovering planes. Unseen in the darkness, they crept through the woods toward the house. A rifle shot cracked as a guard sighted them with his sniperscope. One of the policemen fell, a bullet in his leg. The lights in the house went out, and gun flashes lanced through the windows. Bullets, hunting their prey like angry wasps, snarled through the darkness. Roger was locked in an upstairs bedroom with a guard before the door. During the next two hours, the roar of machine pistols and the crack of rifle fire split the mountain stillness and echoed from the hillsides. At the end of that time, the police withdrew to rearrange iheir strategy. Juarez sat on the floor near a broken window and cleaned his machine pistol. 'T think that it is time to kill Lorin and get out of here," he said, as he placed a fresh clip in the magazine. "It will serve us to good advantage." "Fool!" Gomez exclaimed. "If they found us with a dead man on our hands, we wouldn't stand a chance. I have used this place enough to know that they have us pinned in. We can use Lorin as a bargaining point. We will arrange to take him with us and drop him by parachute. But -- the parachute will not open. A convertiplane, which I have called, will meet us above the clouds and take us away before they can stop us." "They will not trust our word," Juarez said. "We cannot get away with it." Oh, but we can' Gomez izid. "The police know that Lorin's death would have regrettable results. Even the fact that he is a citizen of the North American Union would be enough to start trouble, let alone his position as a key research man on the neutron project. They will do anything to see that he remains alive. The scheme will further enrage the North Americans and might perhaps incite them to war." "I see," replied Juarez. "An excellent plan. Let's contact the police, and see what happens." the house, four policemen crawled through the snow. Wearing white uniforms, they blended so well with their background that even the sniperscope men didn't see them. Their view was limited by the fact that most of the large lights that had flooded the area with infra red radiation had been shattered by gunfire. Individual beams were insufficient to sweep the whole area. Carrying thirty-shot rocket launchers and rocket powered gas bombs, they took positions around the house and aimed the slender guns. At a radio signal, streams of red fire shot from the tubes, and the small rockets tore through every window in the house. In a few minutes, the place was saturated with sleep gas. Not a man moved throughout the building. Policemen in gas masks converged on the house. Roger awoke on a stretcher aboard a police plane. A police officer sitting beside the stretcher answered his dazed inquiries. "You're on a police plane. We gassed the place where you were being held, and then moved in and took over." He grinned. "You looked so peaceful that I didn't have the heart to give you stimulants." "How long has it been?" Roger asked worriedly. "I'd like to call my wife as soon as I can. She's probably worried sick by now." "It's been close to three hours," the officer replied. "We had to buck a snowstorm when we came out of that valley. We knew it was coming, but we thought that we could move in ahead of it and get you out before it struck. Unfortunately, they spotted us with those big infra red lights of theirs and threw our timing all out of kilter. We should be in Denver in less than half an hour." Twenty minutes later the plane set down on the landing stage at the top of police headquarters. Roger was helped to his feet and led from the plane across the wind and snow lashed platform to an elevator. A few minutes later, he sat in the office of the Federal Police Commissioner for the Rocky Mountain district. Roger asked permission to use the desk viewphone and quickly put through a call to Arctic City. In a few minutes, Linda's face appeared on the screen. When she saw Roger her face lit up with joy. "Roger!" she exclaimed. "I've been so worried about you. I haven't been able to sleep for days, wondering what they might do to you." "I'm all right, honey," Roger reassiured her. "I'll be home in less than a day if the police don't detain me here." 'Better have her come to Chicago," the commissioner interrupted. "You'll have to stay there until we get this mess straightened out." "I guess it would be better for you to come to Chicago. The police say that it'll take a while to clear this business up. Maybe you'd better take a jet. It would be more comfortable for you." "I'll take the evening rocket," Linda replied determinedly. "OK," Roger said with a grin. "I'll see you this evening then." "Your wife seems anxious to see you," the officer remarked drily. "Well, you may as well tell me about this business. I'll send you on the rocket this afternoon so that you can meet your wife. We're not sure just what was behind this kidnapping." Roger narrated the events of the past two weeks explaining the part the Arabs were playing in the troubles between North and South America. "The Arabs, eh," the officer mused. "I'm sending the prisoners to Chicago with you. I don't think that it will be too hard to get a cerebral analysis writ. At least I'm going to recommend such action." "Cerebral analysis?" Roger asked. "That must be something new." "It is," replied the officer. "This particular development of the encepholograph is so new that not many people know about it. The machine in Chicago is the only one in existence. We use truth drug writs to make it legal and still keep it secret. It isn't exactly according to Hoyle, but we have to be careful these days. It takes an expert to read the charts and, even then, only very clear thoughts can be picked up." "It sounds like something out of science fiction," Roger commented. "So did a lot of things we now take for granted," replied the officer. Late that afternoon, Roger sat aboard a rocket that screamed through the upper atmosphere on the last leg of its flight to Chicago. He watched through an eyeport as the ship lost altitude and circled the city, finally coming to rest with squealing tires on the concrete runway. As soon as the locks were opened, Roger, accompanied by a police officer, left the ship and went through the boarding tunnel into the bustling terminal building. Roger's eyes searched the crowd until they found Linda. He hurried toward her, and in a few minutes they were in each other's arms. A fter two days of quiet relaxation, a plainclothes man took them to the tower of the Security Building which housed the Federal Police. The place was an electronic wonderland, with banks of instruments lining the walls. Gomez had been drugged and strapped into a large chair in the center of the room. His scalp was shaved, and several electrodes had been taped on. During the next hour and a half, the silence was broken only by the occasional click of a switch and the scratch of pens recording data. At the end of that time the electrodes were removed, and Gomez was carried from the room to sleep off the anesthesia. One after another, the prisoners went through the same process. Gradually the data added up and revealed the plan that was meant to plunge two nations into the horrors of atomic war. An officer gave quick orders. "I want all out going spaceships checked for sabotage. These men didn't know the technical details. The least obvious thing to do would be to tamper with the fuel in such a way that it would explode violently when it was heated in the motors. The nitric acid used in the booster stage would make the best reactant. The rocket would be too close to the ground to drop the booster. Better check the fuel before the rocket carrying those South American officials blasts off." He turned to Roger. "Would you like to see how we stake out a place?" "Sure," replied Roger. "Spaceports are always interesting." They left the building and rode to the rocket field. Night had fallen and the spaceport lay stark and cold in the beams of large floodlights. Three spaceships stood on the field, their bluish sides gleaming in the beams of the floodlights. To the south, a transcontinental rocket rose into the night like a spark from a chimney. The air was bitter with the temperature at eighteen below. "Take a look," the police officer handed Roger a pair of binoculars. Roger placed the instrument to his eyes, and the side of the center rocket leaped toward him. He saw a man in the red overalls of a fuel technician climb the gantry alongside the center rocket and push something into a valve on the side of the booster stage, near its juncture with the main part of the ship. "Do you see that mechanic on the center rocket?" Roger asked. "Let's see," the officer replied and looked toward that rocket. "Yes, I see him now. A mechanic shouldn't be pushing anything into that valve. That particular valve is used to jettison fuel in an emergency. A blast of compressed air will usually clear anything out of it. If that doesn't work, the valve has to be taken apart to be cleaned. I'd like to know just what he shoved into that valve." The officer spoke briefly into his pocket radio. Four policemen moved toward the entrances that led into the deep pit where the rocket stood. The technician closed the valve and climbed down the ladder. As soon as his feet touched the concrete floor of the pit, he was seized by the waiting policemen. A pistol shot cracked, and the prisoner sagged to the floor with a hole in his chest. Instant confusion reigned in the pit, and in that confusion the assassin somehow escaped. When the officer and Roger arrived, they found the policemen talking with a fuel technician. The technician left the group and climbed the ladder to the valve. He opened it and inserted a spring operated probe. "The valve's clean," he shouted down. "I'll take off some of the nitric acid." He did so, collecting the liquid in a small sample bottle which he carried on his belt. Climbing down the ladder, he handed the bottle to the officer in charge, who handed it to Roger. Roger unscrewed the cap and cautiously sniffed the contents. "I can't be sure, but if it's what I think it is, you'd better not have the tanks drained until morning. Give it a chance to dissolve. Otherwise you'll have some left in the tanks. It doesn't react very rapidly at low temperatures." "Just what do you think it is?" the officer asked. "Well," Roger replied, "it's probably some organic compound that would react with the nitric acid to form an explosive nitrate. Of course, it could be an ammonium compound that would react to form ammonium nitrate. That would do the job just as well." T hree weeks later the agents were brought to trial for espionage and conspiracy to start a war. The whole story of the Arab plot came out. Following the lead of the North American Union, the South American Republic carried out an investigation of its own, and discovered the part the Arabs had played in various incidents on the southern continent. Later that summer, the Gibraltar Conference met to settle grievances between the western powers and the League of Islam. King Ignatius II of the restored Spanish monarchy acted as a mediator. Reluctantly the North American Union agreed to let the Arabs build a spaceport in the Sahara, thus giving them a chance to trade directly with the Lunar colonies. On their part, the Arabs agreed to internationalize the Suez Canal area, on condition of free passage across the isthmus for Arab traffic between Egypt and Palestine. The Arabs refused flatly to allow a reestablishment of the Republic of Israel, but would allow Jews to settle in the Holy Land under yearly quotas. Despite reluctance and bitterness, a compromise was reached, and war was averted... for the moment. About a week after the trial Roger and Linda sat at a table in the large Spaceport Restaurant. Through the large window facing the rocket field, they could see clouds driven by an early March wind. Intermittent flurries of rain splashed against the glass. Roger happened to look up and see an elderly man approaching the table; his face lit up with recognition. "Well, Professor Nolan," he said, offering his hand, "I'm glad to see you." "I'm glad to see that you got out of that trouble all right," Nolan replied as they shook hands. "This is my wife, Linda," Roger said. "We're just about to order lunch. Won't you join us?" "It would be a pleasure," replied Nolan as he sat down. "I'd like to hear about what happened to you." Roger talked as he had punched their order into the robot server, and through most of the meal that arrived a few moments later. When he had finished his story Nolan asked him, "Do you intend to go back to Arctic City, now that this is over?" "No," Roger answered, "The pile at Arctic City is nearly completed. My part of the work is done anyway. I've been offered a job on the neutron rocket project at the Lunar laboratories, and Linda and I are leaving for the moon in about an hour. I enjoyed working there before. The moon colonists seem to have something that most earthmen lack... I ess you'd call it a pioneering spirit, a to accept new ideas. "But that's enough about myself. I've been wondering how you got away." "Simple enough," Nolan replied. "The men who were left behind pulled out and left me at the camp when they heard about your rescue. They probably didn't care to kill me if Aey didn't have to. They left while I was asleep and probably went over the pole into Russia. They took my ship, but I was able to call for help with the radio. What happens to them doesn't matter anyway. We'll probably never hear of them again. "I suppose it won't be long before we have colonies on all the planets with that neutron rocket you mentioned." "It'll be a while yet," Roger said. "There are a lot of problems involved in the development of a neutron rocket, and as long as we have to use a fuel processed by passing hydrogen through an electric arc and into an expensive organic compound at low temperatures, space travel will be too expensive for anything more than the exploration expeditions that have been sent to Mars and Venus." The voice of the announcer interrupted them. "The spaceship Goddard is loading passengers from tunnel eleven. All passengers must be aboard in twenty minutes." Roger and Linda rose from the table. "That's our ship," Roger said. "We'd better get aboard. Goodbye, Professor Nolan. I hope we meet again." "Goodbye, young fellow, and good luck." Nolan gripped Roger's hand. Thirty minutes later the professor stood at the window and watched the preparations for blast off. The tail gantry crane moved away from the rocket, and a siren blared forth its warning. The booster motors were started, splashing green flame into the pit and shaking the ground with their roar. The tall ship rose slowly at first, and then more rapidly as it climbed a column of green flame into the clearing sky. It grew small and disappeared, A few minutes later the ship's atomic drive came to life like a tiny new sun that was a beacon on the path to space.    Science is a good piece of furniture for a man to have in an upper chamber, provided he has common sense on the ground floor. -- O. W. Holmes It is the delusion of mankind that the world is as progressive in religion, tolerance and freedom as it is progressive in machinery. -- Moncure Conway They lived by and for push buttons and machines and knew nothing else. But Endicott remembered about the old, old days -- when a man could save a life without a push-button .  . driven snow beat a tattoo on the hull of the cargo ship, filtered through the jagged tears in the metal skin, sifted down over the useless control board with its dead gauges and bank upon bank of pushbuttons. Amidship, a windthrashed branch screechingly scraped the reverberating hull, and the soimd, like the rasp of sliding hatch covers, echoed through the ship. Dazedly, Allison watched the sifting snow settle on the buttons, each one acquiring a grotesque, lop-sided, conical hat which grew as he stared. He reached forward an already stiffening finger and brushed one of the hats away, and almost idly watched another one form in its place. "Come on, Allison, come on. Snap out of it." Endicott came out of the passageway into the control room, returned from his inspection of the machinery. "You hurt in the landing?" Allison didn't answer. He shivered and pushed another inquisitive finger at the control board; the finger selected a certain button and pushed it steadily. There was no click of a hidden relay, no whir of little motors springing to life. "You can punch that button or any of the others from now until -- It won't do any good. We're dead." The plume of Endicott's frozen breath drifted over Allison's shoulder, merged with the sifting snow. "Dead?" Allison echoed in a sleepwalker's voice. "Dead," he repeated and jabbed the button again and again. "In a manner of speaking," Endicott's white-sandy brows drew together in a frown. "We're off the powercast -- our receiver, I guess." "No power." Allison was following better, was waking up. "That means -- Can't you fix it, Chief?" "Nope. I tried, but something in its guts is burned out. No power." Endicott beat his old blue-veined hands together. Allison's frost-numbed fingers picked at the straps on his reclining geeseat, and he stepped to the light metal deck. He severed and you always get what you want -- except now!" "Now, now," Endicott said soothingly. "Panic isn't going to help us any. All we have to do is sit tight -- and wait. They'll send a relief ship out -- " "When?" "In the morning. Morning, sure. They had us on the 'viewer, don't forget. They'll know exactly where to look." "They won't be able to locate us Illustrated by Ed Emsh punched the button on the control board again. He was seized by a spasm of uncontrollable shaking. "No power means -- no heat!" Panic crept into his voice. Endicott said nothing but looked at the tier upon tier of buttons, functionless now. Allison looked at the board, too, his narrow shoulders hunched. "They've never failed before," he muttered through chattering teeth. "What?" Endicott seemed bemused. "The buttons. Punch 'em, and in this white stuff." "I tell you they know precisely where we are. And anyway the scanviewer will pick us up." "I don't think they'll ever find us." Allison slumped down on his transverse geeseat, stared wideeyed at the drift forming slowly inside the torn metal of the windward side of the control room. "This white stuff scares me." He shivered, then got up hastily, his boots slipping slightly on the snowslick decking, and punched the button again. "It's got to work!" he cried and beat on the board with his fist. "Stop that!" Endicott said sharply. There was a crack of a slap in the control room, then silence. In a moment Endicott said in his soothing voice, "Sorry, Allison. Everything'll be all right. Don't you worry." "If you say so, Chief." Allison stood in the center of the control room, his arms slack by his sides. "We'll be all right," Endicott said. "We have fo capsules -- " "Sure, Chief." "We'll be all right, except -- Endicott peered through the rents in the hull into the storm outside. "All we have to do is sit tight," he added hastily. "We'll freeze tonight without heat." Allison's voice was still breathless with panic. "Yeah. Yeah, I've been thinking about that. There's some thing 'way down deep in my mind -- something I can't quite get -- " Endicott still looked out at the storm-thrashed trees, a puzzled expression wrinkling his face. "Something from my childhood -- I was born a long time before you, you know, before they set up state conditioning homes for children. Long before they set up this 'everythingfrom-buttons' business. Lived with my own people, I did, and I seem to remember -- seem to remember -- " The puzzled expression became a frown of concentration. "Or maybe it was something I read a long time ago," he mused. "Did what?" Allison perked up. "Read. You wouldn't know what that was. Everything comes from buttons now, entertainment, food, light, heat -- everything... No, it was from my childhood, I'm sure. I remember my people used to take me out in the country -- " Endicott mused on while a cloak of snow grew on the shoulders of his jacket, and the light began to fade. "Out in the country? What for? Nobody goes out there." Allison's eyes gleamed slightly in the growing dusk. " -- for picnics. And -- " Endicott's eyes brightened, and one hand clenched. "For what?" Allison's head thrust forward. "What?" Endicott snapped, irritated at having his train of thought broken. "What did your people take you in the country for?" "A picnic... , Yes, yes, that's it! I remember now!" Endicott's words poured out. "You know it is forbidden to think of the old days." "Shut up! Let me think. You want heat, don't you?" "It's forbidden to think of the old days," Allison repeated stubbornly. "You'll get heat when I report this -- in a different way." "Shut up! Look, you want to keep from freezing tonight?" Endicott glared "All right. Come with me and do as I say." Without a backward glance Endicott crossed the slippery deck and entered the passageway. At the midship cargo hatch he stopped. "How are you going to open it without power?" Allison's breathplume shot over Endicott's shoulder. "It's locked and unlocked by a button on the control board. Remember Chief?" "Stop gloating, Allison. This is for your benefit as well as mine. There's an escape hatch in the control room." "That's controlled by power, too." "Yes, but in these older modek the hatch also has a manual control, as I remember." Endicott moved off toward the control room. Allison hesitated, then followed, and joined Endicott as he began to search the control board. Endicott found the emergency lever for the escape hatch and tugged on it, turning his head to watch the hatch in the side of the hull, back of his seat. The hatch, big enough for one man to pass through at a time, popped, crackling with frost, and stirred slightly. "Now, Allison, my boy, let's put our shoulders to it." Endicott was in high spirits again. As soon as the hatch swung open, Endicott put his head and shoulders through the opening, squinting his eyes against the icy snow which swirled past him. He grabbed a handhold on the outside of the hull and pulled his legs through, and dropped into the snow alongside the ship. Allison's head and shoulders appeared in the opening, and in a moment he was beside Endicott. "Now what?" Allison yelled above the wind, Endicott looked toward the clearing in which they had landed, then turned to face the trees around the disabled ship. He waded through the snow to the nearest one and reflectively took hold of a dry branch over his head, tugged it several times as though judging its resiliency, before snapping it off. "Now, Allison, you see what I did? Well, you do the same, only gather ah armload of branches. When you have them, bring them to me at the ship. And keep on gathering them until I tell you to stop." Allison stood still in the deep snow, peering suspiciously at Endicott through the snow-swirl. "Is this something from the old -- ?" "Never mind that now, Allison," Endicott said patiently. "Let's not worry about all that twaddle. You want to be warm, don't you? So, just do as I say." Allison's eyebrows shot up and lowered instantly, and his face set in stubborn planes. "If this is from the old days I'm not sure I want any part of it." He looked furtively over his shoulders at the gloomy woods. "There are no Conditioning Committees here, Allison," Endicott said testily. "Get on with it." Allison took a few reluctant steps toward the nearest tree. Endicott started back to the ship with his branch, looking back over his shoulder. "No, no, Allison. See those green needles? It won't do at all. Dry branches, Allison, dry branches." The whipping wind carried Endicott's words over the few yards. "I can't see how these -- branches? -- are going to keep us warm. It seems like a lot of useless trouble getting them," Allison said sulkily, suspicion and fear unabated. Endicott didn't answer. Instead, he went to the side of the ship away from the wind and began (Continued on page # ) Hijacking the By Jove! was quite elementary. Hijacking the crew was something else. And therein lay Captain VeBruges margin for error... Vebrug of the Flanjo intelligence service took over the MarsTitan freighter By Jove!y it was no such terrestrial foolishness as mercy that prevented him from liquidating the ship's three-man crew. Sure in his own wolfish strength, his attitude was that three peaceloving merchant spacemen could do much to contribute to his personal comfort, if kept under iron control. Besides, with adequate brain-washing to eliminate loyalty to the Solar Council, their technical skills could make them quite Illustrated hy Paul Orban valuable to the somewhat undermanned Flan jo base on Rhea. On the other hand, his concern for the others aboard the ship was so slight that he would not, on his own, have warned them of the impending acceleration, which could have injured or killed them. He made his move at # minutes before zero hour. As a paying passenger from Mars City to Titan, he had the run of the ship, and had been lounging in the control room for half an hour. Migl, the engineer, was on duty and was sorting the blast-pattern tapes, a job Qoqol had started during his shift. Albrekt simply took a heat gun from the rack, stuck it in Migl's back and ordered him to leave the control room. Migl took it as a joke, at first. "It's no joke," Albrekt assured him, nudging him with the weapon. "Get below, if you don't want to get burned." Puzzlement written all over his swarthy face, Migl unstrapped himself from the captain's chair and pushed himself across the room. Albrekt slid into the chair, buckled himself in and pulled two rolls of magnetic tape from the breast pocket of his coveralls. He found the roll marked "No. #," stuck the other in the rack beside him and inserted the end of his tape in the automatic pilot. Migl paused at the top of the gangway. "You're not going to blast?" demanded Migl in amazement. "I am," retorted Albrekt, holding the heat gun steady. "Por Dios Carrel's not strapped in!" exclaimed the engineer. "You'll break every bone in his body if you don't give him warning!" Albrekt glanced at his watch. "You have five minutes to warn him and strap yourself in," he said. "I can't be bothered." Migl vanished down the hatch and Albrekt flicked the switch that closed and locked it. A moment later the intercom system erupted with Migl's frantic voice from below: "General alarm! Prepare for emergency acceleration ! General alarm! Hurry, Carrel!" Albrekt smiled grimly. The second hand swept around the face of the chronometer, boosting the reluctant minute hand forward in jerks. At exactly # hours, Albrekt pushed the firing button. The tape chattered through the automatic pilot. Apparently, the makers of the tape had planned on a fast-get-away: the pressure must have approached #-G, pinning Albrekt painfully back against the cushioned reclining chair. He was able to move his eyes to watch the outside screens. The other eleven ships of the convoy, coasting in formation in their orbit, dwindled behind them and swung gradually to one side. In a few moments, everything cut off, and weightlessness returned. Red lights were flashing all over the control board, and distant alarm bells were clanging in the depths of the ship. Albrekt had no idea what they meant. He was no spaceman. The radio loudspeaker crackled and blared. The convoy had discovered the By JovePs defection. "'Themis to flagship! Themis to flagship! By Jove! has changed course! Moving away fast. Position, RA #-##, D minus #-#." After a moment: "Flagship to Themis: acknowledged. Flagship to By Jove! Flagship to By Jove! Carrel, what the hell?" Albrekt grinned. "Themis to flagship," called the loudspeaker, when silence greeted the query. "Shall we follow?" "Flagship to Themis and all vessels. If you're that flush with fuel, how about passing some around? No pursuit authorized. All vessels take readings on By JovePs new orbit as long as it's in range. We'll alert the patrol to investigate when we're in radio range." The ship's intercom buzzed. "Albrekt!" It was the voice of Carrel, the captain. "Yes?" "We'll get to the reason for this damn fool stunt later. Right now, do you plan any further acceleration?" "Later. I'll warn you in time to strap down." "I should hope so. Those G's nearly killed Qoqol. This ship wasn't built for that sort of acceleration, you idiot. Half the seams are sprung and leaking air." "Repair them, then," snapped Albrekt. "You'll have time." During the long silence that ensued, Albrekt sat back and took stock of the situation. So far, everything had worked perfectly. The other tape given him by the Flanjo agent on Mars was to be run through the automatic pilot exactly # hours after the first one, when the By Joves diverging orbit carried it beyond range of the convoy's meager radar equipment. The control room would be his headquarters for the next few months, simply because the control room was the only deck of the By Jove! which could be locked against the rest of the ship. All the weapons -- the heat guns -- were in the control room, so Albrekt expected no trouble on that score. It was going to be a dull journey from here on out, and Albrekt decided he would do well to learn as much as he could about handling a space ship. He swung the chair around and ran his eyes along the shelves of Carrel's microfilm library. The title Sailing Space, by Dr. Russo Alin, caught his attention. Albrekt inserted the spool in the projector and started it. An intense bearded face appeared on the screen, and the recorder said: "It is not generally known, except to students of technological history, that the steam powered and electric powered automobile gave the familiar gasoline powered automobile of the last century a close race for preference in early automotive history. The factors that caused the gasoline powered automobile to become predominant are not important here. What is important is that there were alternative methods of automotive propulsion... This didn't start off well. Albrekt ran the spool up about half way and tried again. This time, the author was pointing to a wellchalked blackboard. "The radiation is so much stronger at Venus than farther out, that it is here we find most common use of the principle," he said. "Using our formula, which, you remember, is F equals rA over # plus gM, we..." Disgusted, Albrekt switched it off and took out the spool. He found another. Survival for Spacemen, and tried it. It was a primer on conditions to be met in space travel, handled in popular vein. It was the sort of thing Albrekt wanted, and he settled back to listen to it. It was about nine hours before the last red light on the control board winked out and the clanging of the last alarm bell died out below. Then Carrel's voice demanded an accounting over the intercom. "I'm in command of the ship now," answered Albrekt, awakened from a light doze by the call. "I intend to remain so. As long as you and the others recognize that, you won't be harmed." There was a brief silence. "The only thing I can figure is that you've gone space happy," said Carrel at last. "Albrekt, you're no spaceman. You can't have known what you were doing when you switched on the jets." Albrekt did not answer. "Look " said Carrell, "it'll take several days to figure out what sort of orbit that blast threw us into, and I'm not sure we have anough fuel to correct it. You'd better let  US m. "We may as well understand each other' said Albrekt. "I'm no spaceman, but some very good spacemen figured out that blast tape -- and the other one I'm going to use later. I'm a captain in the Flan jo military, and I've taken this ship and its cargo over, to deliver them to the Flan jo patrol. None of you will be hurt if you cause no trouble." "So that's it!" snorted Carrel. "Damned pirate highj acker! My advice to you, Albrekt, is to come out of there and let me put you under arrest, because if you don't we'll be coming in after you." "Try it, and I'll bum you," retorted Albrekt. A fter sleeping several times, Albrekt was ready to concede it was not going to be as cozy in the control room as he had thought at first. It offered basic comforts of home, but the showers were on the larger navigation deck below. Several months without a bath promised to be uncomfortable. All decks carried plenty of emergency rations in case they were sealed off by a meteor collision, but the rations were not too tasty, Albrekt's mouth was beginning to water at the thought of the frozen meals stored two decks below, available to the crew. Most of Carrel's book tapes were too technical to interest him, but he spent much of his time listening to those which offered him information in simple terms. The pattern of meaning of all the dials, switches and buttons crowded into the control room became a little clearer to him. Albrekt did not see how the crew, weaponless and locked below, could challenge his mastery of the ship. He detected the first effort in this direction about # hours after the By Jove! had left the convoy, Albrekt was eating a meal of emergency rations when he glimpsed movement on one of the rear screens. He turned his attention to it at once. A spacesuited figure was emerging from the airlock, which was in a narrow waist between the vessel's personnel sphere and the huge cargo cylinder beneath it. From the suit, it was either Carrel or Migl. The figure moved cautiously up on the outside of the airlock, gripping its surface with heavy magnetic shoes. In the hooks of the spacesuit, it carried two sledge hammers. Albrekt flipped on the switch to the intercom, which was tuned to the spacesuit helmet radios as well as the ship's system. "I'd advise the man in the spacesuit to forget it, and get back aboard," he said gently. "If he doesn't, I'll sweep the outside surface with machine gun fire in exactly two minutes." His fingers hovered over the firing buttons of the heavy weapons the By Jove! carried for defense against possible marauders. But in a moment the spacesuited figure reentered the airlock. "It would take you some time to break into the control room with a sledge hammer," Albrekt said conversationally into the microphone. "At the first blow. I'll blast anyone who tries it. That's fair warning." It was several days later that Albrekt began to feel sleepy long before his sleeping time. The realization hit him suddenly that for some time he had been yawning and stretching, relaxing more and more in the chair, his eyelids getting heavier and heavier. His head was beginning to ache a little. He slept by the clock and awoke by the clock. He should not be sleepy for hours yet. Rousing himself with an effort, he swung bleary eyes around the control room, anxiously. He could see nothing out of order. But how would one detect something that made one abnormally sleepy? What could it be? Illness? If there were harmful bacteria aboard the ship, they should have struck many days ago. There was no disease in space itself. Gas? If such ships as the By Jove! carried any sort of gas, Albrekt didn't know about it. He had been briefed on the weapons he might face. Surely gas would have been mentioned. Perhaps it was chance, or perhaps some part of his mind was swiftly scanning what he had learned through his reading of the last few days: his eyes fell on a bank of dials ranged side by side on the control board. The hands of all of them were lined up at the same angle -- all but one. It had sunk far to the left. The legend above the bank of plate below the lagging dial read: "Control Room." Albrekt unstrapped himself from the chair with nervously fumbling hands. Somehow the crew of the By Jove! was interfering with his oxygen supply. Albrekt was beginning to feel a little nauseated. His head throbbed. He pushed himself across the control room and grabbed the helmet of the spacesuit that himg there. He did not take time to put on the suit itself, but pulled the helmet down over his head and switched on the suit's oxygen supply. In a moment his head cleared, leaving only a slight headache. As well as Albrekt remembered from the reading tapes, the ship's oxygen supply was on one of the lowest decks. The crew evidently had blocked the line to the control room. "You'd think there'd be some alarm system for that sort of thing," he muttered to himself. But then, of course, the hull had not been pimctured. The dials were supposed to be checked frequently. The question that faced Albrekt now was how to get out of this trap. He couldn't live in the spacesuit indefinitely. His hand brushed the heat gun at his side. he ducked from beneath the helmet and returned to the control board. He unlocked and opened the hatch to the navigation deck below. There was an upward swirl of air, and Albrekt permitted himself to breathe again. A head poked itself cautiously up the companionway. Carrel. The captain's face was a strong one, lined with years of decision, golden-brown with the tan that one gets only from years in the thin air of Mars. Carrel's dark hair was beginning to gray, but his electric blue eyes were still young. He stopped when he saw Albrekt at the control board. Albrekt held the heat gun on the captain steadily. "I'm not anywhere near overcome' said Albrekt. "You'd better turn around and go back down." Carrel did. As long as the hatch stayed open, oxygen could not be cut off from the control room. Albrekt decided he could afford to leave it open, since he had possession of the weapons. He would have to lock it while asleep, of course. But, even with the oxygen supply cut off, the control room should contain enough to carry him for eight hours. If not, he could set an alarm to wake him every four hours, or even every two hours, to open the hatch and refresh his air. The fact that he could leave the hatch open safely gave him another idea. He was hungry for some food besides the dry emergency rations. Albrekt checked the chronometer. Within the next two hours, he was scheduled to run the other blast tape. He would have time. Heat gun in hand, he moved quietly to the hatch. The companionway was clear. From below came the murmur of voices. He moved cautiously a few steps down the metal ladder until he could see beneath the ceiling of the navigation deck. Migl was taking a shower on the other side of the room, while Carrel and Qoqol relaxed in contour chairs beside the dead-reckoning tracer. "What is Flanjo, Carrel?" asked the booming voice of Qoqol, the navigator. Qoqol was a Martian. His round body with its huge oxygen storage hump was not quite as big as a human body, but his thin arms and legs, each equipped with half a dozen double joints, were longer than a tall man's height. They were wrapped around him now, out of the way, and his big-eyed, big-eared head peered through them like an urchin's face through a tangle of vines. "The Flanjos are members of a fanatic sect who believe in human supremacy," answered Carrel soberly. "More than that, they believe in their own supremacy over other humans. They revolted against the Solar Council and have a hidden base our forces haven't been able to locate yet." "They are loco, Qoqol," said Migl from the shower. "Crazy. They'd make all you Martians slaves. Us too, probably." "Why they want this ship?" asked Qoqol. "For the ship itself, partly," said Carrel. "But our cargo's pretty strategic, too. It's mostly lithium, which they can use in nuclear weapons and power plants. They can use the plastics, tools and machinery we're carrying to improve conditions at their base. The general opinion I've heard is that their objective is to take over the Mars colonies. They need fusion weapons for that, but it's hard to get light elements on the outer moons, where their base is thought to be. Whatever they have already, # tons of lithium will help them immensely." "Immensely," assented Albrekt, stepping off the ladder to drift to the floor. He held the heat gun lightly in his hand. "I'm afraid I'm going to require all of you to go ahead of me down to the storage deck and remain there while I enjoy a good lunch." Silently they complied. The living quarters, where the food was, were one deck down, the storage deck below it. Albrekt ate his meal, keeping a watchful eye on the opening between the living quarters and the storage deck. Then he returned to the control room, locked the hatch and strapped himself down for blasting. He kept his promise to Carrel and broadcast a warning of the blast over the intercom system. At the appointed moment, he ran the blast tape through the automatic pilot. The acceleration was not as heavy this time. The ship, safe from the prying of the convoy's radar, swung slowly from its course and into a new prearranged orbit, on which a Flanjo vessel was to intercept it in approximately six months. lier than any place on Earth, lonelier than any place on Mars. No expanse of desert or ocean is so empty as space, for there one at least has something material beneath him and around him. "An experienced spaceman would rather be burned than left alone in space," said Carrel. "It'll drive most men completely crazy in a pretty short time. I think you've realized that by now, Albrekt. That's why you won't kill us." Albrekt was eating a meal at the table in the living quarters, his heat gun lying beside his hand. The others were seated on bunks across the room. Since the only necessity was to protect himself and keep the others out of the control room, he had discontinued the practice of making the crew go below while he ate. Despite the atmosphere of enmity, the conversation and companionship filled a need he was beginning to recognize more keenly. "That's true," answered Albrekt agreeably. "For that and other reasons, I won't kill you unless I'm forced to." "But there's nothing to prevent ship," reminded Carrel. "Nothing but this." Albrekt laid his hand on his heat gun. "As a matter of fact, I don't want to kill you, Albrekt," said Carrel. "I want to capture you alive, and take you back to Mars. I imagine you have some information about Flanjo plans that would be pretty valuable to the council." Albrekt laughed. "I admire your courage, Carrel," he said. "But I've been in dangerous positions before, for longer periods than this. I don't intend to let my guard down." Carrel apparently was blessed with iron self-control and Qoqol, like all Martians, habitually showed emotion in ways no Earthman could interpret. But Albrekt's practiced eye detected Migl's restlessness. When the crew's move came, two days later, Albrekt was ready for it. As he had anticipated, it happened at mealtime. Albrekt was beginning to spend more time outside the control room, always keeping the others from getting between him and the hatch to higher decks, but mealtime was the logical time for his guard to be lax. At some signal Albrekt failed to catch, Carrel and Qoqol launched themselves directly at him from opposite sides of the round room. Simultaneously, Migl drove through the air for the hatch to the upper decks. Albrekt's muscles reacted like steel springs. Scooping up the heat gun, he dove across the table and twisted in the air as he floated swiftly between Carrel and Qoqol. Ignoring them for the moment, he trained the gun on the hatch to the navigation deck above and pressed the trigger. Migl had to grab the ladder frantically to keep from drifting head-on into the sizzling beam that barred his way. Albrekt anchored himself to a bunk and waved the heat beam in an arc above their heads. The metal ceiling smoked faintly. 'T won't kill you all unless I have to," he said calmly. 'T can get along easily without one or two of you, though. Before you try anything like this again. I'd suggest you think seriously about which of you wants to die first." Silence answered him. Migl still clung to the companionway ladder, about halfway up. Carrel clasped his knees in a sitting position about six inches off the floor near the round table in the center of the room. Qoqol, unable to stand upright anywhere aboard the ship, crouched like a spider against the farther wall. Albrekt switched off the heat beam and motioned at Migl with the gun. Watching them closely, Albrekt moved to the companionway and pushed himself up through the hatch. Locking himself in the control room, he devoted himself to serious thought for a while. Despite his warning, this sort of thing was likely to happen often. Eventually it must succeed, if only by the law of averages. The trouble was, Albrekt was actually at a slight disadvantage. He knew by now that the absolute need for companionship in space was not idle talk. He had no intention of coasting alone, in a silent ship, for five and a half more months, and being shot as hopelessly insane when his Flanjo colleagues picked him up at the rendezvous. One solution, of course, was to kill two of the crew members. Then neither of the two men left could afford to kill the other. For several reasons, Albrekt preferred to find another solution. He had heard rumors that personality conflicts between two people cooped up together in a spaceship drove them eventually at each other's throats. Another factor was that, as long as there were three of the others, Albrekt could hold the over them. Besides, their technical knowledge would be valuable to the Flan j os, and Albrekt wanted to face no disciplinary action for destroying any of them unnecessarily. What was the substance of their threat to him, then? He examined it. Their threat was that they might reach the control room. He could not lock it from the outside, and he must come outside for good food and necessary companionship, so that line of reasoning got him nowhere. But what was behind the threat of their reaching the control room? They might (a) obtain weapons to match his own; (b) communicate the ship's position to warships of the Solar Council; (c) swing the ship off its prearranged course and avoid the rendezvous with the Flanjo vessel. Solution? Albrekt laughed shortly. There was a solution to all three problems. With his heat gun, he reduced the radio transmitter to a molten mess. Now the By Jove! could still receive, but not send. Piling all the heat guns in the center of the room, he gave them the same treatment. The beam left them almost unrecognizeable in the midst of a shallow crater. He had come very near burning a hole through into the navigation deck. The last step was the most daring of all. It meant that he must trust absolutely to the accuracy of the two blast tapes he had run through the automatic pilot. He threw the switches that jettisoned the fuel tanks. In the screens, he watched the spheres of hydrazine and nitric acid, hurled from the ship by spring action, go drifting slowly away into the void. In effect, the By Jove! was now a voiceless derelict. Albrekt went below. "This means that I intend to stand for no more foolishness," he said harshly when he had told the others what he had done. "If you prefer, you may draw lots to decide which two I shall kill and which one shall have the pleasure of my company for the rest of die trip. The continued existence of all three of you will depend strictly on your good behavior." Migl, lolling on a bunk, curled a sardonic lip at him. "You seem to have gone to a great deal of unnecessary trouble, ladron he said. "It is still worth the risk of at least one of our lives to destroy or capture you." "You're wrong, Migl," said Carrel soberly. "Now we have no fuel, we have no radio. The ship is in orbit, and we're helpless to change it. No matter what we do aboard, the Flanjo ship will intercept us. The Flanjos will destroy us then if they don't find Albrekt alive and safe." "An accurate analysis," agreed Albrekt briskly. "You're showing good sense now, Carrel." Carrel shrugged and spread his hands. Albrekt felt a little sorry for him in defeat. He admired Carrel's bravery and resourcefulness. Albrekt's sleep that night was more carefree than it had been since the By Jove! pulled free from its satellite orbit around Mars. There was still danger, of course. He had to be on the alert for a desperate attempt to disarm him, or an effort to overcome him in the control room by tampering with the ship's machinery, despite Carrel's surrender. But it was less likely now. R elations were on a much more cordial basis from then on. Their conversation returned, almost, to the friendly terms of the earlier portion of the trip. "Ever been to the outer planets before, Albrekt?" Carrel asked casually one day, munching a beef sandwich. "I spent ten years at the base, before they sent me back to work on Mars and Earth," Albrekt replied. "I was born on Earth. My father took me out to the base when I was a boy." "The base?" repeated Carrel, even more casually. "On Rhea," said Albrekt deliberately. His faint smile recognized the attempt to elicit information. "Now, figure some way to tell them back on Mars!" He thought Carrel flushed slightly, but could not be sure. "Ever been to Venus?" asked Carrel. "Never that far in, I'm afraid," answered Albrekt. "I don't suppose you passed quite this close to Jupiter on your other trips?" said Carrel. "How should I know?" demanded Albrekt. "I'm no spaceman. I don't know how close to Jupiter we're going now. I don't remember anything said about Jupiter on my trips." "They'd have opened the ports and let all of you see, if you were of it," said Carrel. "Qoqol's figured it out. We're going pretty close this time." "You want me to open the ports and let you see Jupiter?" asked Albrekt sarcastically. "Something more serious than that," answered Carrel gravely. "It's the radiation." Albrekt pushed himself back from the table and stared quizzically at Carrel. "You wouldn't take advantage of my ignorance to rib me a little, would you now, Carrel?" he chided gently. "I studied elementary astronomy, you know." "You're proving right now that you didn't study astrogation," retorted Carrel sharply. "Any spaceman can tell you the reaction of cosmic rays on Jupiter's atmosphere is fatal at the distance we'll pass in this orbit. If our convoy had been passing so close, every ship would have been shielded." "Carrel, I can't see your object in lying, but I think you are. Some damned good spacemen plotted this orbit." "And what do they care about your life or ours?" demanded Carrel hotly. "You know your Flanjo buddies as well as I do. We'll live long enough for them to get all the information they want out of us." Albrekt studied him closely. Carrel returned his gaze with serious eyes. "Maybe you're telling the truth," said Albrekt slowly. "If you're lying, I can't see your reason. You know I won't panic, and we can't change orbit." "I'm trying to impress you with the seriousness of tiiis thing, because there's something we can do about it if you'll let us," said Carrel patiently. "All it takes is a thin metal shield at a proper distance from the ship, and we can build that out of the cargo we're carrymg. "The only metal aboard is lithium," demurred Albrekt sternly. "That lithium's slated for nuclear reactors and weapons and it's going to reach Rhea intact!" "We're not going to bum up any of your precious lithium!" exploded Garrel. "All I ask is to use half of it to build a shield. They can use the damn stuff out of the shield as easy as out of cargo bars. It'll all be there, just the same." Albrekt hesitated. It was quite conceivable that his superiors had not bothered about such a trifle as his slow death from radiation. They would have plotted the most effective orbit for their purposes, and if the By Jove! didn't happen to be shielded -- well, casualties had to be expected in any military operation. "You have my permission to build the shield," he said stiffly at last, "under my strict supervision, of course." "That's all right with me," consented Carrel with a sigh of relief. "And I give you my word as a space captain, Albrekt, nobody aboard the By Jove! will lift a hand against you while it's being built." Despite Carrel's reassurance, Albrekt, wary of some stratagem, held to his determination to oversee every step of the shield construction, with gun handy. Fifty tons of such a light metal as lithium is a pretty large volume of the stuff. Albrekt assumed that Carrel's shield was to be a square or disc of the metal, rather thick to absorb the radiation, which would be interposed between the By Jove! and Jupiter. When work began, after several days of planning, it became apparent that the construction task was something more than cutting out and fastening together chunks of lithium. Instead of working inside the ship, the crew moved a furnace to the outside of the cargo hull and anchored it down. The Earthmen wore spacesuits, of course, but Qoqol did not, as Martians do not breathe, but extract oxygen from solid matter and store enough of it to last several hours at a time. To Albrekt's surprise, they next hauled out some of the big packages which were plastic domes for use on Titan. At extra-terrestrial bases, these hemispherical domes were inflated to form huge air bubbles in which humans could live. "Plastic?" said Albrekt through his helmet radio. "I thought you were going to use lithium." "We are," replied Carrel's voice. "We'll fasten some of these domes together to form an airtight sphere, then inflate it from the oxygen supply. It won't take much pressure, and we can recover the oxygen later with the ship's compressor. "Before we recover the oxygen, we'll charge the plastic sphere electrically, so it'll stay rigid. Then we'll vaporize the lithium in the boiler and spray it over half the plastic sphere. We'll blacken the plastic and melt it with solar heat, returning it to the boiler by charging the boiler. I'm afraid we're going to ruin a few of the plastic domes, but that's not important now." "Spray the lithium? Fifty tons of it?" "Wait and see," Carrel said. "This will be a bigger shield than you expected." Later, at mealtime, Carrel brought a worry to the surface of Albrekt's mind which the Flanjo agent had been trying to keep suppressed. "That was a pretty rash business, jetting all the fuel," said Carrel. "What do we do if were off orbit?" "It seems to me IVe mentioned before that some very good spacemen plotted this orbit," replied Albrekt. "The best orbits sometimes require minor corrections, when they're this long," said Carrel. "I couldn't make them, anyhow, and I certainly wouldn't trust any of you at the controls," said Albrekt. "Don't you think my superiors thought of that when they planned this?" "Maybe," said Carrel. Albrekt was amazed at the size of the shield Carrel was building. The inflated plastic sphere was bigger than a small asteroid, some six to eight miles in diameter. Carrel had spliced together several of the biggest plastic domes available. Nowhere but in free space, could the sphere have been inflated with so little gas pressure. The ship could have floated around in Carrel's sphere like a cork in a water bucket. "It has to be big, because the shield is going to be about # miles away from the ship, attached to it by lithium wires," explained Carrel. "So the diameter of the shield has to be this big, to eclipse the disc of Jupiter at the distance we'll pass the planet." "I don't understand the principle of this at all," said Albrekt irritably. "It seems to me a smaller, heavier shield closer to the ship would be just as effective." "That's because you don't understand this type of radiation," replied Carrel. When the shield was completed and the plastic framework removed, it was a tissue-thin metal hemisphere, attached to the ship like a parachute. Migl used up several oxygen cylinders as makeshift rockets to push the shield out to the proper distance from the ship, while the attaching wires were unreeled from the cargo winches. "We leave the wires on the winches, because we'll have to shift the position of the shield from time to time by shortening some wires and lengthening others," Carrel said. When the task was complete and the shield glimmered in the sunlight like a nearby moon, they all returned to the living quarters. "Qoqol, you'll be in charge of keeping the shield at the proper angle," said Carrel. "And, Albrekt, the truce is over." "What do you mean by that?" growled Albrekt, his hand dropping to his heat gun. "I've kept my promise while the shield was being built," answered Carrel. "Now, if we can catch you off guard, and do it without being burned down, I warn you we're going to try to disarm and capture you." Albrekt relaxed. "You won't get the chance," he promised. "If you did, what good would it do you? We rendezvous with my ship in less than four months now." D espite Carrel's threat, Albrekt was still in control of the situation when the hour of rendezvous approached. The necessity for keeping alert against possible attack was a considerable strain on him, but he had been under strain many times before in his life. Neither Carrel nor either of the others had made any overt move. Assured in his own mind that the risk became less and less as the trysting place neared, Albrekt had permitted the crew into the control room except when he slept above a locked hatch. Half an hour before the scheduled time of meeting with the Flanjo ship, Carrel, Migl and Qoqol filed up through the hatch. Albrekt offered no objection, and they floated across the control room to seats. "Looks like your ship would be on the screens by now, doesn't it, Albrekt?" suggested Carrel quietly. "They don't have to make the rendezvous exactly on time," replied Albrekt, a little uneasily. "They know the orbit. They can pick us up anywhere along it." "We're not in the orbit," said Carrel flatly. Albrekt scowled at him, but his eyes were drawn back irresistibly to the screens, empty except for the silvery lithium shield and, perched just above its edge, the small but baleful disc of Jupiter, "Qoqol checked the blast tapes you used, and we're not in the orbit they're suppose to put us in," insisted Carrel. "Qoqol's been making sightings for the last six weeks. Jupiter's pulled us off orbit, Albrekt." "Is true," boomed Qoqol. "We long way off." "This sort of thing's doing you no good," snapped Albrekt. "I'm not a spaceman and I can't check your figures, but I don't think we're off orbit." "And if your ship doesn't make the rendezvous?" asked Carrel. "If it doesn't now, it will later on. And, by Saturn, we're going to sit tight in this kettle till it does, Carrel! Last minute propaganda won't work." There was silence for a few minutes, as the chronometer hand ticked on toward the hour of meeting.  The radio buzzed. Leaning forward, Albrekt turned up the volume, eagerly. "Captain Albrekt Vebrug," called the radio. "Flanjo patrol ship Bavaria to Captain Albrekt Vebrug." Albrekt turned a triumphant face to Carrel. But Carrel gestured at the screens. They were still empty. And the radio voice was not coming in strongly. "Vebrug, we don't find the By Jove! on our screens," said the radio, fading a little, then getting louder. "If you get this call, Vebrug, break radio silence and reply. Do you hear this, Vebrug? Break radio silence and reply!" Perspiration broke out on Albrekt's forehead. He could not reply. The ship's transmitter was a pile of junk. "Vebrug, Vebrug," intoned the radio insistently. "We don't find you in orbit. If you hear this, break radio silence and reply." Carrel rose from his seat, floating slightly upward. Albrekt, sweating, dropped his hand to his heat gun. "We can't stay in this sector, Vebrug," whispered the radio. '"Blasting back to base now. Will call every five minutes for the next two hours. If you hear this, break radio silence and reply." The radio squawked. Then there was nothing but stellar static. "Well, Albrekt?" said Carrel. Albrekt felt his iron nerve cracking. He felt that he was breaking apart physically. "Keep your distance, all of you!" he croaked, drawing the gun. "They'll be back. They'll search all space for us!" Carrel floated a little closer and Albrekt levelled the gun at him. Migl and Qoqol moved in slightly. Albrekt swung the gun in an arc. "I'll blast all three of you," he warned desperately. "Carrel... "Why?" asked Carrel. "We're all in the same boat, Albrekt. We're spiralling into Jupiter." "You lie!" shouted Albrekt. "I don't believe you, Carrel!" Carrel laughed shortly. "Where's your nerve, Albrekt?" he asked. "You've done pretty well up to now. Does the immediate prospect of dying frighten you so much?" Albrekt lowered the gun slightly. "If I were afraid to die I wouldn't be here," he replied. "You're not baiting me for nothing, Carrel. What are you after?" "I don't think you realize how ship had to come to the rendezvous point," said Carrel. "As much as your friends want this cargo, they won't stay around long. Solar Council ships probably heard that broadcast." "What makes you think they can find us?" sneered Albrekt. "We can't call them either." "They can't find us," replied Carrel calmly. "The chances are a don't have enough time for chances like that." Ice seemed to enter Albrekt's veins. He glared at them from angry eyes. They were inching closer to him. Already they were halfway across the control room. "Stand back!" he said, his voice trembling. "I'll bum all of you!" "And die alone, Albrekt?" Carrel's brittle voice was like the blow of a hammer against rock. On the screen behind Carrel, the orb of Jupiter floated off the port bow, red and ominous. Giant of the heavens, its tremendous mass could snatch them from the sky, crush and break them like moths. All the vast loneliness of space swept over Albrekt on wings of fear. It was too much for a planetbound mind to face. The last companionship even of enemies was better than solitary death. "No," he muttered, beaten, and the heat gun drooped in his hand. Qoqol's eight-foot arm reached in like a striking snake to lift it from his nerveless grasp. "Good work, Qoqol," said Carrel heartily. "I had an idea the Flanjo tradition of superiority would break in the face of the inevitable. It was worth risking, now that we know we're safe." "Safe?" said Albrekt bitterly. "Safe for what? To fall into Jupiter?" "Well, now," said Carrel drolly, "I believe I neglected to say that our spiral toward Jupiter will intercept the Solar Council base on Callisto, didn't I? Yes sir, it's one of the neatest orbits Qoqol has ever plotted." "What?" demanded Albrekt, stunned. "You mean we're in a controlled orbit?" "Why, yes, my Flanjo friend. We started pulling out of the orbits your blast tapes set about four months ago. If we hadn't, we wouldn't have come anywhere near Jupiter." "You lie!" shouted Albrekt. "You lie, Carrel! You couldn't! There's no fuel!" "I'm afraid we're going to have to keep you tied up to one of the bunks for the next few weeks, Albrekt," said Carrel. "You're too valuable a prisoner to take a chance on your doing away with yourself." "There's no fuel," repeated Albrekt. He was almost whimpering. "I'll relieve your mind on that score," said Carrel. "Have you ever seen a sailing ship on Earth?" Albrekt stared at him, uncomprehending. "A sailing ship doesn't need fuel because it gets its power from the wind," said Carrel. "Neither do we, now. I'm afraid that story I told you about dangerous radiation from Jupiter was made up of whole cloth, Albrekt. There isn't any. "That lithium hemisphere we built isn't a shield. It's a sail." "But there's no wind -- there's no air -- "The wind that blows between the worlds," said Carrel solemnly. "Solar radiation. Its pressure will move a ship if you provide a sail that's big enough and light enough -- and that's what we did." "It's impossible," muttered Albrekt, crouching back against the automatic pilot. "Not impossible, just extremely unusual this far out," said Carrel. "If they ever let you out of prison, Albrekt, I think a trip to Venus would be worth your while. I think you'd find the annual space regatta particularly interesting."    of Scientific and Industrial Research have given indication of leading to a new, previously untapped source of power. In a series of extraordinary tests these men produced electricity by mixing fresh water with sea water. The osmotic pressure of sea water is about twenty atmospheres; and when a river mixes with the sea in nature, free energy equal to that obtainable from a waterfall # feet high is released and lost. The British experimenters put that osmotic pressure to work by separating alternating layers of salt and fresh water by using alternate basic and acidic membranes. The membranes are connected in series and yield actual measurable amounts of electricity. A hydroelectric pile of forty-seven pairs of membranes, each three inches square, yielded a maxiOur citation this month goes to these British chemists, who have taken the first concrete step toward giving the world a new source of power -- one which has tremendous possibilities. what Is Your Science I. Q. ? astronomical? Counting five for each correct answer, you should score #. Anything over # and you're a whizz. See page # for the answers. #. What is the name of that moon of Saturn which has one side five times brighter than the other? #. The "Great Red Spot" and the "South Tropical Disturbance" are phenomena of the planet #. What is the name used by astronomers to describe the dark gap in Saturn's rings? #. The azimuth distance measures the angular distance of a star from the #. How many days does it take the long-period variable star Mira to fade and brighten again? #. A one hundred and seventy pound man experiencing #gs (two gravities) weighs pounds. #. Polaris is the name of the north pole star. What is the name of the south pole star? #. The ratio of the total amount of sunlight reflected from a spherical body to the amount received by that body is called its #. What is the name of the ninth moon of Saturn which was supposedly discovered in #, but has been "lost" ever since? #. Canopus, the second brightest star in our heavens, is about light years away. #. What is the name of the comet which returns every # years? #. The escape velocity from the moon is reckoned at miles per second. #. How many constellations are there in the whole sky? #. The two moons of Mars were discovered by #. Which planet has its axis tilted at # degrees? #. What is the name given to stars which are no further from Polaris than the distance from Polaris to the horizon? #. That point in the orbit of the moon nearest to the Earth is called #. The temperature of Jupiter is estimated to be about degrees below zero. The Elroom m Timmy was getting too much #-dimension television, and he was mistaking it for Mother Nature. So his parents took him out to see the natural wonders, which he unhappily mistook for #-D television... work so hard. They were running their bows back and forth so fast their hands were blurred. The musicians' faces were studies in concentration and the concertmaster -- he wasn't two feet from her -- had worked himself into such a frenzy veins were standing out on his red face. Mrs. Briggs almost laughed, me way the conductor was sweeping his baton to within inches of her head. Several times she had an impulse to reach up and catch it. So this was Virilio! Disjointed, cacophonic, sometimes sweet but more often deafening. She had never caught him before. But it was just as advertised, all right. Exciting. And moving. She didn't know if there was supposed to be a love theme in Virilio's new Plenitude on a Thursday Afternoon but it definitely stirred her. Just then the door opened and Timmy came walking through the musicians, eating an apple. Once he stopped to stare at the tympani and a second fiddler's bow kept running through his head. It was rather ghostly, Mrs. Briggs thought. "Timmy!" she yelled above the music. "I didn't see you go. Where have you been?" As if she didn't know. "Had to get a glass of water. The music made me thirsty," he said loudly, taking his seat beside her. "This is a lousy program, Mom. What's next?" Drama in History she said absently, her eyes on a flutist's mustache, wondering how he managed to play. Timmy chomped on his apple, but in the face of his gustatory enjoyment she couldn't find the heart to tell him to be quiet. At intermission, she left the Elroom to let Timmy take in the commercial and returned in time for the beginning of Drama in History, There was a salt spray in the air and a cool wind whipped around them as the lights went out completely. The roar of waves grew loud and the deck creaked beneath their feet. The ship moved through the dim light. Sailors stood like statues about the deck. "We're even with the inshore ships, sir!" a voice called hoarsely. "We've got the French between us, then." Though he was a small man, there was a ring of authority in the voice of the man on the bridge. "There's the Orient, sir!" "One of ours has gone aground!" Illustrated hy Paul Orban s "She'll mark the shoal for the rest of the fleet," the little man replied calmly. "Ready, Mr. Creston!" "What's he think he's doing?" the captain's boy whispered. "Quiet, lad," a peg-legged sailor said softly. "Admiral Nelson will see us through. You'll have your share of action afore momin', mate!" The darkness was split by faraway flashes of light. Instantly, there was returning cannon fire that caused the ship to shudder and "groan. The Battle of Aboukir Bay had begun... The red flashers above the door winked their message. "Damn!" Mrs. Briggs said, switching off. "Ma!" "There's someone at the door, Timmy. If it's a salesman -- !" Mrs. Briggs checked the dials on the electrocooker as she went to the door. A small but efficientlooking woman in the standard white and blue of school uniforms had alighted from her g-car and stood at the door. The woman said she was Bernice Pomeroy from the office of the director of Timmy's public school and Mrs. Briggs, scarcely glancing at her offered identification card, pushed for mezzanine. The woman said nothing; she merely waited until the floor came down hydraulically to mez level. Then Mrs. Briggs ran the magnetic curtains around, and when they were private she saw that the woman was sitting on one of the soft lounge cushions, straight-backed, adjusting her glasses on the small bridge of her nose. She drew a sheaf of papert frokn her portfolio. "Mrs. Briggs," Miss Pomeroy said, looking up with officious grey eyes. Then she saw Timmy. "Timmy, I suppose." "Yes." Mrs. Briggs wished she'd get on with it. It was hard enough leaving Admiral Nelson at the mouth of the Nile, without having her settling down as if for all day. "Maybe it would be best," Miss Pomeroy coughed a little, "if Timmy -- " "If Timmy what?" "It's about him, you see." "I'll send him to the Elroom." "No," Miss Pomeroy said at once. Then she added: "Perhaps it would be best if he stayed after all." She riffled her papers. "Timniy's latest Auden-Gronet test shows his personality has dropped at least five points from positive during the first half of the school year." Mrs. Briggs looked at her nineyear-old son. He was down to the core of his apple now, a nice looking boy, she thought, with bright blue eyes, hair that insisted on drooping too far down on his forehead -- she'd have to start training it in earnest soon -- and a fair supply of freckles. He carried himself well. Had a pleasant speaking voice, she thought, and a good vocabulary. She had noticed noslipping? "Timmy's not too far behind factually, Mrs. Briggs," Miss Pomeroy said, referring to her records. "In fact, we'll admit he's ahead in stability and adjustment. But he's getting more negative in aggressiveness and personality development. He just doesn't seem to care. That factor may account for his stability -- he doesn't have any reain son to be unstable, you see? And he adjusts easily because he doesn't care enough not to. There is a reason, of course." Mrs. Briggs was annoyed. The schools had gone too far. "And what, may I ask, is the reason?" "Too much time in the Elroom, Mrs. Briggs." Mrs. Briggs managed a goodnatured laugh. "Miss Pomeroy, you have Timmy all wrong. He doesn't spend any more time in the Elroom than other children do." "Children are all different," Miss Pomeroy countered. "But not Timmy." "Parents are often poor judges of their own children, Mrs. Briggs." "Are you trying to tell me I don't know my own child?" Mrs. Briggs, I am not trying to tell you anything," Miss Pomeroy's cheeks were red. "I am telling you your child is spending too much time watching these programs. Sublimating so much, in fact, that he's beginning to find it difficult telling the difference between life itself and the Elroom." "Sublimating?" "Escape. You didn't know? Yes." The teacher smiled tolerantly. "First sublimation room for elevating one's self -- sublime the verb. Then SubL for short. Then just L and L-room to Elroom. You didn't know?" "That, my dear," Mrs. Briggs said heatedly, "is just so much hogwash." "Tell me, Mrs. Briggs, just what does your husband think of the Elroom?" "He doesn't have much time to spend in it." "You mean he'd rather do something else?" "He's interested in typically man things -- cars, mostly." Because Timmy had gone over to the curtains and was starting to walk through, and because she wanted to show Miss Pomeroy she was capable of some discipline, she said, "And where are you going, young man?" "Probably back to the Elroom," Miss Pomeroy put in. Mrs. Briggs gave her an acid look. Timmy swallowed the last bite of apple. "To get a drink. I'm thirsty." When he had gone. Miss Pomeroy leaned forward. "You must keep him out of the Elroom, Mrs. Briggs. We'll send you a list of programs. He can have sublimation only one hour a day." "Ridiculous!" Mrs. Briggs snapped. Miss Pomeroy adjusted her glasses and looked at her severely. "Are you saying you will not comply?" "I said it's ridiculous, didn't you hear? Why, you won't find a better child than Timmy -- " "Obviously your only child." "And what has that to do with it?" "It is not my job to explain," Miss Pomeroy said icily. "Only to inform. I'm afraid I'll have to report that you will not heed the directive." "The Elroom is instructive. Why, we were learning something about history just now. We were watching Nelson sink the French fleet when you came." "It's not the program. It's the identification with it. Let's say Timmy has too much imagination -- but then I have already told you what I came to tell. I'll be going now, Mrs. Briggs." F rom the way George sent the gyrocar into a long swoop that ended inside the garage, Laura Briggs knew her husband was angry and she braced herself for battle. But she wasn't quite prepared for such an immediate outburst, the moment he got in the door. "Stoops!" he cried, robbed of slamming the door because of the automatic permaglass cushion. Timmy scurried away, frightened at this aspect of his father. "The psychocenter we've got to go to yet!" The electrocooker had dinged a minute ago, and Mrs. Briggs was ready to tahe everything out and put it on the table, but she could only look at him in amazement. "You're not making sense!" "Ha!" George's heavy eyebrows hovered high in his forehead, then plunged down over his eyes. His big face was crimson, his blue eyes steely. "Neither are they, and they called just before I left the office. Wouldn't tell me why. Have you done anything?" "Well -- " Mrs. Briggs started tentatively and he gave her a sharp look. "It's about the Elroom." "The Elroom!" She told him about the visit of Miss Pomeroy. "She must have reported it." "Then we'll get rid of the damned thing!" His eyes brightened. "I told you we should have gotten a new car instead." "But we've got a car, George." "Not a good one." He leaned against the cooker, his face blissful. "Imagine us -- us -- driving a new Caddie gyro -- room for eight, you know -- supersonic drive -- sleek, too -- we could get a red one -- you'd like red, wouldn't you? -- a thousand horsepower with twin turbos for level flight -- and those off-center firing tubes with folding back overhead vertical flight pins -- Gad!" "Our present car -- " "Junk!" "But it runs, and we don't need a car like that for just in-town driving." "But what about our vacation? Think of it, Laura: We could make it to Alaska, Tibet, Africa -- we could go around the world in our three weeks." "We could do the same with the Elroom, George. And there are a lot more things besides travel." Mrs. Briggs's lower lip was trembling. "You're siding with those nasty school people. You think they're right about Timmy." "Where is he?" Timmy stuck his head up from behind the lounge. His big eyes were wide. "Look at him, George. Ever seen a more normal boy? How could they think a boy like that could get so involved in a program he'd think he was living it." "Yeah, but if those school people -- " Her eye caught the clock and she drew in her breath quickly. "Say! We've got to hurry if we're going to see Cameron Capers Dr. Vincent Potter was a large man with a shining expanse of flesh between two islands of black, bristling hair above heavy brows that met over his nose and almost concealed the bright, intelligent eyes that glittered beneath them. "So. You cannot understand. Yes." He nodded his head, made a tent with his hands, and rocked. "But this is what we are for. To understand. For you." He smiled. "If understanding easily came, then we would be not needed. No? You see?" He laughed a little, jerked upright. The movement nearly made the three of them jump. "Doctor," George said. "There over the country." "You tell me something new?" people there are. So? Must they be alike every one? They are not. Yes?" The doctor leaned toward Timmy who was playing with a desk calendar. "Who is your mother?" Timmy pointed to Mrs. Briggs. "Your father?" Timmy pointed to George. "See? He knows." "Of course," Mrs. Briggs said. "Exactly," the doctor agreed. Then he was upright, waving his forefinger before them, looking from beneath dark brows. "For how long, Mrs. Briggs? For how long, I am asking? And now, I am telling how long. Who knows? Who can tell how many times you will let him see these things?" "What day is today?" Timmy asked. "He is asking what day it is," the doctor laughed. "Well, why don't you answer him?" Mrs. Briggs suggested. "The twelfth of June," the doctor said. "And why does Timmy ask such a question?" 'You forgot to tear off yesterday." And Timmy tore the little sheet off, proceeded to make a dart of it. "Well, what you've been meaning to say," George said, "is that we're going to have to cut down on Timmy's Elroom time." "Aw, Dad!" Timmy protested. "No. Cut it down we will not do." The doctor shook his head gravely. "We will cut it out altogether." "Cut it out?" George said hopefully. He leaned forward with interest. "Maybe we should get rid of our outfit?" "Mr. Briggs. You do not know, perhaps, sublimation can be dangerous. Confusing reality, stimulating unreality, stunting thinking, bringing on neuroses. Tolerance. He needs tolerance. Timmy cannot develop tolerance with too much of a dose, as he has had. Do you see now? The AG test -- ah! -- it is good. It shows us he is leaving reality. We can't let him psychotic become." "But he doesn't believe the programs!" Mrs. Briggs exclaimed. "Not yet, Mrs. Briggs! Not yet. If he sublimes enough he will soon, though. No?" "I can't stand the thought of locking Timmy out of it," Mrs. Briggs said sadly. "I'm in favor of getting rid of it," George muttered. "There are other things -- cars -- " Dr. Potter took an official form from a drawer. "A change of environment you need. Timmy needs. You leave tomorrow on a month's vacation." "But my vacation doesn't come up for six months," George said. "Or doesn't that matter?" he added hopefully. "You will leave tomorrow, as said. No? Your office will I inform of the necessary departure. Sector administration will be knowing." He wrote on a sheet of paper. "The colorful spots. That you will see. Timmy will see things as they really are. Itineraries will send the route by facsimile. Good. Not?" "Why, I think it's wonderful!" George said. "Timmy must see the sunrise. The sea, he must swim in. Things, he must do. Remember. Yes?" "Yes," George said. "No?" He turned to his wife. "There's an agency where we can rent a car -- and they have new Caddies -- thrust upward from the earth like a giant needle. The Briggses entered the base of it, went up the elevator, and caught glimpses of stairway landings as the cage rose slowly. When they stepped out on the platform near the top, they walked to the pair of port openings on one side and looked out. In the time it had taken them to get to the top of Washington Monument, a light fog, borne on the slight evening breeze, had enveloped the tall shaft at its midsection; they could see nothing of the ground below. They were isolated from Earth, connected to it only by the elevator well. "Isn't this eerie?" Mrs. Briggs asked Timmy. He looked around casually and yawned. "On an Elroom program," he said, "you would be able to see all the way down. I don't think this is so hot." He yawned again. "I'm thirsty." "We'll be going down in a minute, Timmy." "I've got the route figured better than Itineraries for the next stop," George said. "If we could leave in twenty minutes -- " Aragonite crystals on the cavern's ceiling twinkled brightly in reflection of glowing electric lights. The fragile beauty of the boxwork formation took Mrs. Briggs's breath away. "It's just like lace," she whispered to George, pointing to the frosty tracery glistening in the honeycombed walls. "Tom Bingham discovered this cave," the guide intoned before the tourists seated in the giant chamber, his voice echoing from the walls. "He heard a whistling soimd and found it came from a small opening. That's why they call this Wind Cave. The wind goes in and out." "Why does it do that?" someone asked. "Difference in atmospheric pressure," the ide said. "Another interesting thing about this cave: It's always forty-seven degrees. Doesn't make any difference whether it's summer or winter. Always the same in here." "I don't hear any wind," Timmy said to his mother and father. "Why isn't the wind whistling?" "When the barometer falls, the wind blows out," his father explained. "When the barometer rises, the wind blows in." "Why isn't the wind whistling now?" Timmy insisted. "The barometer must be standing still, son." "This isn't any good. On an Elroom program the wind would be whistling." "Hush," Mrs. Briggs said. "I'm thirsty," Timmy said. "We'll be leaving in a few minutes." "You'll get plenty of wind when I rev up Xht Caddie on our next hop," George said. "Think of that," George said. "It's a whole mile down to the river." Timmy leaned forward to take a deep look over the precipice at Yaki point. "Boy!" he said. "This is pretty good. Almost makes me dizzy." Below, the Colorado River was bright quicksilver, threading its way circuitously through the canyon. The striated walls rose majestically from the floor to towering temples. The boy turned from the rock to look at the tufts of clouds floating by in the deep blue sky. "I'm thirsty," he said. Mrs. Briggs, still fascinated by the view, said, "Well, go get a drink, then." Timmy walked over the edge, screamed as he fell. Mrs. Briggs could only stare, stunned. George uttered a cry and ran to the cliff's rim. Tourists nearby ran up, looked down with George. A hundred feet below on the slope at a point where it dropped off to nothing, a horrified Timmy was crouched clutching a small tree. "Hold on!" George called encouragingly. A few minutes later someone had found a long rope in a gyrocar trunk and roped it about George's middle. They let him over the edge gently, dropped him down the slope slowly. "Hang on, Timmy!" George yelled, running a tongue over dry lips and momentarily closing his eyes to the dizzying depths. "Don't let the little rocl coming down worry you." A while later, a dust-streaked Timmy was back on the ledge in his mother's arms, sobbing. George, his shirt wet with sweat, and struggling out of the rope, panted : "Whatever came over you, Timmy?" "It was so real I thought it was the Elroom. I was just going out to the kitchen to get a drink of water." "And I -- I told him to go," Mrs. Briggs said, horrified. "It was that real to me, too." sonable. Or will trade for new Cadillac #-passenger, twin-turbo gyro, red preferred. George Briggs, #-#.    If I have ever made any valuable discoveries it has been owing more to patient attention than anything else. -- Isaac Newton Eye specialists of the future may be using an electronic magnet to take foreign bodies from the eyes. Magnets in use today do not attract non-iron metals such as silver, aluminum, brass, copper and various others, and at least # of the eye injuries which cause loss of sight are due to such non-iron fragments. The new device now in the development stages at the Army Medical Center will, when perfected, remove all such foreign objects cleanly and without more than minor damage to the delicate tissues. A new step toward the automatic factory of the future is an automatic punch press with an electronic "brain". Directions are fed to the punch press by an electronic digital computer which "reads" a perforated card for information on the size, number and location of the holes to be punched. The press automatically positions the material to be perforated and performs the operation within an accuracy of a few thousandths of an inch. New directions for the press are simply a matter of a new card, with no time lost for retooling or the retraining of an operator. Human beings won't be called upon to act as guinea pigs in cell studies in the days to come. A new method of serial cultivation of human cells has been announced which will enable microbe and disease hunters to grow living bits of normal tissue in test tubes. The key to the new technique seems to be a time period for adjustment to an artificial environment. The new method makes it possible to get information concerning cell nutrition, cell chemistry and the effects of viruses, all of which was unobtainable before except by the infection of human volunteers. Industry may be able to eliminate the costly building and testing of expensive prototype engines with a new gadget. If the electronic device works as predicted, it will make it possible to test the performance of jet engines, nuclear reactors and the like while they are still on the drawing board. Able to simulate the thermal behavior of materials under rapid and intense temperature changes, the device enables an accompanying computer to predict the performance of a proposed structure from design factors and known material properties. Thermal behavior is simulated by exhibiting a corresponding electrical behavior under the influence of electrical current. The Computer solves the problem of the thermal behavior of any new or existing design by the simple principle of analogy. Housewives may soon be asking the grocer for a box of tomato juice. This newest addition to the growing list of fruit powders is processed by directly vacuum drying tomato paste, and can quickly be restored to liquid juice by the simple addition of water. Although the drying process is as expensive as the present one of adding water to make commercial tomato juice, the saving in storage space and freight costs make it a much more economical product for both civilian and military use. Medical men of the future may be able to make much more accxirate diagnosis of cancer and other diseases of the soft internal organs and tissues. A new device known as a Somascope, which combines the principles of radar, sonar and television may soon supplement the X-ray and the fluoroscope. This ultrasonic photographing gadget is expected to give well defined pictures of diseased cells where none can now be detected. The patient Book Service Phone GRamercy #-#  We Stock All current American Science Fiction in Book Form and carry current Magaxines and Pocket Books.  A lorge selection of Science Fiction is ovoilable of British Books, Magozines and Pocket Editions.  We carry o large stock of Bock Issues of Science Fiction Mogozines  to be somascoped is immersed in a tub of water and ultrasonic sound is beamed at the patient, then reflected back through the water. The echo waves are converted into electrical impulses which produce a picture on a television screen. Since tissues with different consistencies reflect sound waves through the water differently, diseased tissue shows up quite blatantly on the screen. Jets, rockets and helicopters may not be the only aircraft in the skies of tomorrow. Recent tests demonstrated the unique abilities of a channel wing plane weighing # tons and propeller driven, which is able to hover at about eleven miles an hour without crashing. Two pusher-propeller engines are mounted on wings which resemble half-barrels; and with this equipment the plane can climb # feet a minute after using less than two hundred feet of runway. The slowmotion plane can also do # miles an hour and develop as much lift per horsepower at eleven miles an hour as commercial airliners develop at regular speeds. The smog problem which plagues so many industrial areas may be licked in the not too distant future by the development of lightweight fuels. A proposal has been made to redesign motor fuels so that the heavier components with molecular weights of # to # which usually escape combustion and are thrown out into the atmosphere to create smog are eliminated. A change to compounds with a weight of # to #, such as propane and butane would solve the problem. These fuels could be made to burn more efficiently and leave nothing but carbon ffioxide and water. Motor redesign would simply consist of replacing the present day air-vented gasoline tank with a pressure tank to contain the liquid petroleum gas. Your dinner menu may soon have flying fish on it. Officials of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service report that fresh flying fish makes a good meal and have proposed that a flying fish canning industry be set up in the Barbados Islands where this aviation-minded fish is a popular food. It is hoped that the needs of food shortages may possibly be filled by this new addition to the list of edible sea food. tramping the snow down into a flat, hard floor. He broke his branch into short lengths over his knee, then, in a nearly forgotten gesture, slapped at his uniform until he remembered that he had no pockets. For a moment he stood still, his eyes roving over the side of the ship until it came to one of the jagged tears. With a little self-congratulatory chuckle, he began scraping one of the lengths of wood over the torn metal, catching the splinters and shavings in the palm of one hand. Allison dropped his armload of branches by the ship, waged an inner battle between fear of the unknown and curiosity in which curiosity won, and stood watching Endicott arrange the branches in a crib around the neatly piled shavings. Endicott, on one knee by the crib, worked steadily, laying the pieces of wood with care and a returning sense of sureness, with only brief pauses to flex his freezing fingers. Finally, with a smile of satisfaction on his face, Endicott got to his feet, and the nearly forgotten gesture at the pocketless uniform was repeated. Slowly, Endicott's lined face altered. He looked hastily at the watchful Allison and hastily looked away; he looked at the completed crib, and his tongue licked his lips; he looked along the side of the damaged ship, and his eyes narrowed thoughtfully; finally, he looked into the swirl of the icy snow, and he shivered. His hands ceased their pawing, fell slowly, to hang slack by his sides. He was not smiling as he turned away. "What were you looking for?" Allison asked curiously. "I just remembered something else," said Endicott, his voice was very soft in the stillness, "we used to have something called a match to start those picnic fires."    I -- Japetus. # -- Jupiter. # -- Cassini's Division. # -- Zenith. # -- #. # -- #. # -- Sigma Octantis. # -- Albedo. # -- Themis. # -- #. II -- Enke's. # -- #. # -- #. # -- Asaph Hall. # -- Uranus. # -- Circumpolar. # -- Perigee. # -- # F. "You can stop worrying, Jane. My job's secure now! And here's the insurance policy to prove it -- my I.C.S. diploma!" This feeling of security is probably typical of every l.C.S. graduate. Because -- as the job situation gets tighter, the man with l.C.S. training has the advantage. Why? Your I.C.S. diploma tells your present employer three im portant things: (#) You want to make the most of your present job. (#) You have the training you need for advancement. (#) You look for better ways of doing things on your own. What you do about your future is up to you. Do nothing and stay at your present job at the same old pay. Or earn an l.C.S. diploma in your spare time for security, promotions, more pay! Your first step is to mark the course that interests you in the coupon below, and mail it to us. free books We'll send you two interesting books. The first, "How to Succeed," is a gold mine of helpful tips. Points out many small things in your personality and behavior that can make the difference between success and failure. The second book tells you about the opportunities in the field of your choice. Costs pennies a day Many an I.CS. student has made up the cost of his course in one month with the salary increase his l.C.S. training earned for him. By studying at home in your spare time, you pay yourself many times an hour more than you're now making. (One student reports -- "My LC.S. course was worth # an hour to me.") The security of your present job -- or the success in finding the new job you've always wanted -- is in your hands. Move ahead with I. C. S. training while others stay behind on the routine, small-pay jobs. Remember, your first step to security and success is to mail this coupon. Take a few minutes and do it note. If you put it off, it can cost you your future. For Real Job Security --  Get I. C. S. Training I I. C. S., Scranton #, Penna B Air ComJitkxtlnc -- Rofrif. Architocturo  BuiMing Contractor  Building Maintananct  Carpanitr and Mill Work  estimating  Hnling  Painting Contractor  Plumbing  Pnding Arch. Bluaprlntl  StaamUting  Cartooning  Commorcial Art  Fashion illustrating  Magarint Illustrating  Ai'rcrafi  Engint Manic  Advertising  Bookketplng amt Accounting  Business Administratioa  Business Correspondonco  Certified Public Accounting O Letter-writing Inmrovemant  Managing Small Business  Office Management O Retail Business Management  Sales Management  Stenographic-Secretarial O Traffic Management KtdrJsign Lettering g aS'eSS:? Sk.i(#iina .ful p.intin.  ye"Mi tngineering  Sketching and Painting  Auto Body Rebuilding  Auto Elec. Technician g Auto-Engine Tune Up Automobile Mechanic Nam# .I igineering  Cham. Lab. Technician  General Chemistry  Natural Gas Prod, t Trans.  Petrolsum Engineering  Plastics a Pulp and Paper Making  Civil Engintering  Construction Engineering  Highway Engintering  Reading Struct Btuaprintg  Sanitary Engintering  Structural Engineering  Surveying ana Mapping Q Aircraft OraNing  Architectural Drafting  Electrical Drafting  Mechanical Drafting B Mine Surveying and Mapping Ship Drafting  Structural Drafting C Electrical Engineering  Electrical Maintenance  Electrician  Contracting  Lineman  Commercial  Good Engli  High School Subjacts  Mathematics (Partial list of Z# courses) Foremanshh) Q Air Brakes  Car tnspeetQt u Industrial Suparvision  Diesel Locomotive  Leadership and Organiation  Locomotiva Engineer  Personnel-Labor Relations O Section Foreman O Gas-Electric Welding  Combustion Engineering  Heel Treatment  MeUllurgy  Oiesel-Eiec  Diesel Eng't  Industrial Engineering  Electric Light and Power  Industrial Instrumentation  Industrial Supervision  Machine Design-Drifting g Machine Shop Inspection Machine Shop Practice  Mechanical Engineering  Quality Control  Reeding Shop Blueprints  Refrigeration O Sheet Metal Worker  O Electronics Q Marine Engineering Q Practical Radio-TV Eng'r'ng  Ocean Navigation O Radio and TV Servicing  Shipfitting B Radio Operating  Short Story Writing Television-Technician O Telephony Stationary Steam Engineering  Carding and Spinning  Cotton, Rayon. Woolen Mfg.  Finishing and Dyeing  Loom Fixing  Textile Designing City Occupation... Cenedian residents send coupon to Internationat Correspondence Schools, Canadian. Ltd MontrMi, Canada... Special tuition rates to members of the U. S. Armed Forces. The Greatest Selection of Puzzles Ever Published for Oniy #c ! "Most fascinating variety of puzT HE newest, largest, most varied and interesting selection of puzzles, word games, math games, quizzes and brain teasers ever published at the price! Hundreds of exciting ways to test your wits and talents! Months and months of fun and entertainment! Puts pep into parties. A fine, inexpensive gift. Order today! agree that it is the greatest puzzle book you ever saw at the price, return within # days for complete refund! Send only #c to Kingston, N. Y. Scores and scores of brand new crosswords of all types and sizes, from "quickies" to giants, regulars, askews, you-make-its, diagramless, and many other kinds. Fun for yourself or parties! Brand new visual puzzles to sharpen your wits ond memory. Here are some novel ways of testing your powers of observation. Try them with your friends and see who's the best reporter. Pages and pages of new cryptic messages -- funny, familiar, serious and otherwise -- that will really test your decoding talents. Pages and pages of these old favorites, constructed by expert hands, for real puzzle doers. As exciting as a carney barker's pitch. You get a "prize" too! A new type of word puzzle presented here for the first time. If you would like to try numbers for a change, here are some puzzles that will give you a work-out! Tricks and turns aplenty in these tricky teasers! puzzles, including Put and Take, Pat Answers, Compositions and Composers, Ink Spots, Vocabulary Quizzes, etc., etc. Science Fiction Magazine"  is the growing-esr scicnce fiction magazine in H H America because every issue sparkles with new ideas and entertainment!... The finest fiction and features by the finest writers!... The best artwork by the best artists!... The finest paper and the finest printing by far!... That's why readers everywhere are calling it "America's most interesting science fiction magazine"... But why not see for yourself? You risk nothing! We will send you -- All you have to do is mail the handy subscription form below. We will then send you your first issue at once -- on trial! If you do not enjoy every minute of it, just let us know and we will refund your money at once! If you DO like it (which we are sure you will) we will send you the next # issues fresh off the press -- which means you get I # issues in all for the regular # subscription price, saving you #! Mail the Only # Money back guaranteed #-# IF Magazine, Kingston, New York Enclosed find # (check or money order) for which please send me IF Magazine for the next # months. It is understood that the first issue is a know and you will return the full subscription price at once!   The Day the Fate of Earth Rested On a Pair of Crooked Dice! and interplanetary space ships will be located as closely as possible to the big cities, connected by rapid electronic highways and controlled helicopter lanes. The port building will resemble a huge top and will be equipped with a long ramp which swivels around the circular base. Passengers and luggage can be speedily transferred to ships by means of fast-moving conveyors which run from the immigration offices direct to the ship. All Stories New and Complete Cover by Charles Casler Entering Earth's Atmosphere  An Airport of the Future #  #  #  #  #  # I #  #  # I IF is published monthly by Quinn Publishing Company, Inc. Volume #, No. #. Copyright # by Quinn Publishing Co., Inc. Office of publication, # Lord Street, Buffalo, New York. Entered as Second Class Matter at Post Office, Buffalo, New York. Subscription # for # issues in U.S. and Possessions; Canada # for # issues; elsewhere #. Allow four weeks for change of address. All stories appearing in this magazine are fiction; any similarity to actual persons is coincidental. Not responsible for unsolicited artwork or manuscripts, #c a copy. Printed in U.S. A. Next issue on sale March # th it isn't too strange that man can just about outgripe anything on legs. But a little griping now and then is all right, might even be good for you, and there are times when you have to come right out with a big one. But what gets me is the person who is forever griping about something or lamenting his plight. It can be his business or his auto or his liver; he's the unluckiest guy in the world; he's got worries like nobody else ever had. I've done my share and maybe more, but every time I start feeling sorry for myself I try to think about stories I've read or some things I've seen. Like the two or three times I've read Candide, for instance. To my mind Voltaire wrote, in Candide, one of the most beautiful satires of all time. And when Dr. Pangloss said to Candide, who was having one of his lower moods, "Everything happens for the best", I also picked up a piece of personal philosophy that's been very helpful. Another scene I liked was when Candide entered the tavern thinking himself the most unfortunate man in the whole wide world. His lord's castle had just been pillaged and burned, the family drawn and quartered, all females raped and disemboweled, and he had lost his beloved Cunnegunde. Woe was he as he sat down at the tavern table. Yet, when each man spoke of his misfortunes, Candide found that he wasn't the most unfortunate man in the world after all. For each of the other travellers had experienced misfortunes worse than his own. The point I'm trying to make is that we often aren't as unlucky as we believe. And I think we have all had personal experiences which, by comparison, make us pretty well off. Anyhow, here's one I had... years ago when I was in a mean stew about business. My imagination was playing havoc with my reasoning and I wasn't eating and wasn't speaking civilly to anyone. Just what the problem was, I don't remember now. But I was the gloomiest gus you ever saw and was damning my luck all over the place and feeling extremely sorry for myself. I had to go down to New York to take care of the problem and dreaded the trip. Anyhow, I got on a bus and was on my way. It was a lovely day, during October, I think, and the sky was a sharp sunny blue and the mountains and woods were a riot of colors and the air had a wonderful bite that was sort of intoxicating. That is, if you noticed it. I didn't. I was too emerged in my own problems. Anyhow, we were somewhere between New Paltz and Wallkill, which was about # miles of riding, when the bus stopped at a little country station -- one of those nonscheduled places which resembles a deserted fruit stand. I saw vaguely that there were two people waiting, a man and an old woman. The bus was on its way again when the man sat down beside me. I wouldn't even have noticed him had he not lunged against me as he sat down. I was on the point of asking him if he was drunk or just plain rude, but something held my tongue as I got my first look at him. He was a youth, about twenty, and shabbily dressed. He had a strange short-cropped haircut and a pasty white complexion and a looseness about his face and body that seemed out of place. I saw that the elderly woman had sat just across the aisle. She was very gray, and poorly dressed, too, but there was something about her lined face that shone and her smile was one of patience and kindness. I must have been wishing that the person who had sat next to me had sat somewhere else and it probably showed in my face, for the old lady looked at me and said, "He's all right." She gave me a look that hoped I would understand. Then she reached over and patted him on the arm and said, "Now you be good and be quiet." I glanced quickly back to the youth and a chill went through me as I realized that the person next to me was the first idiot I had ever seen. Suddenly I wanted to get off the bus. I edged closer to the window and tried to bury my face in a copy of the New York Times . Then it occurred to me that my attitude was blatantly obvious and I was hurting the feelings of the old lady, who appeared to be his mother or grandmother or an aunt. Or maybe she was used to people acting the way I was, for she gave me that same hopeful look again. I put the paper down. "Would you like to exchange seats and sit over here with him?" I asked. The old lady smiled and shook her head. "I hope you don't mind," she explained, "but he sees nobody but me all the time and he'd like to sit next to you for awhile. Is it all right?" I guess I must have nodded rather stupidly and muttered "sure" or "gladly" or something. What does one actually say at times like this? A little while later she reached into one of the bags she was holding in her lap and got an apple and gave it to him. He took it with wobbling hands and then rubbed it on his frayed coat and looked at it and made an inarticulate sound that went with his bobbing head and watery blank eyes. He seemed very happy about the way he had shined it. Abruptly he thrust it at me. He said something that sounded like "bite" and I didn't know what to say or do. My smile must have been rather tight as I said, "Thank you -- I -- " The old lady came to my rescue. "That young man doesn't want to take your apple," she told him. "Now you be good. You eat it." That seemed to satisfy him. During the next twenty or thirty (Continued on page #) T he Galactical Examiner condemned Earth to isolation because one man had cheated with the dice. But Fader Martin had good cause to cheat. The universe was at stake... that had begun to spread and a rough-hewn philosopher's face bleached by ten-thousand sunless days. His name was Fader Martin. People called him the Banker, but there was a better name for him. Shill. He had a voice inside his head. He stood by the elevator door in the decaying, midTwentieth Century grandeur of the Desert Inn corridor and waited for the spinning silver dollar to come down. As it fell, Fader caught it deftly out of the air and slapped it over on his wrist. "It comes up heads," he said. He unveiled the cartwheel. "Tails," he muttered. Then a frown creased his forehead. Illustrated by Ed Emsh Who's meddling? "Fader said the voice inside his head, "the plan's hopeless. Who can win with an exposed hand?" Too late. Even if it weren't , we've been over and over the thing often enough to know that nothing else has a prayer. We have to lay our cards on the table. We can't keep him from spotting the one-eyed jack , but we can keep shuffling them around so that he has to guess where it is. "French monte?" Shell game. Watch the pea , ladies and gentlemen! It's never out of sight. Which shell is it under? Guess the right shell and win the grand prize! The one in the middle? Tm sorry, sir -- Fader took a deep, harsh breath. Only it makes these old hands shake sometimes when they remember that the grand prize is the universe... The elevator doors split apart and asked him in. "Good morning, Mr. Martin," said the eager young man with the glad smile. "How's the Banker this morning?" "Let me put it this way," Fader said tiredly, "if I could burn the dice now and start out with a fresh roll, there' d be some hot dice right quick." "Hope there's nothing wrong, Mr. Martin," the boy said with quick concern. "I got a sawbuck riding on your nose." Fader's smile was a little grim. "Nothing that a little rest wouldn't cure. Fader's getting old and tired, boy. He can't stay on top forever." "Oh, I've got a system -- " the boy began confidently. Fader held up a pale, thick-fingered hand. "Don't tell me. You double up on favorites." "How'd you know?" the boy asked, wide-eyed. "In my lifetime," Fader said, leaning back against the rear wall of the car, "I've seen every system ever invented. They all have two things in common: #) they require a large starting capital, and #) they always go broke. If you lose, you double your bet on the next favorite until you finally get a winner, right?" "Yes, sir." "At Gulfstream Park, Florida, a little over a hundred years ago, twenty-one favorites lost in a row. If you had bet two bucks on the first race and doubled your bet for each one thereafter, your bet on the twenty-first race would have been #. Just to win a two-dollar bet." "But if a man can't play a system," the boy objected, "how is he going to win?" "Is he to win at all?" Fader said slowly. "That is the question." The boy sighed and punched the button. "Take a chance on a turkey, sir?" Fader looked down at the punchboard held close to his nose. "Thanksgiving must be six months away," he said wrily. "Can't start too early." The boy was an atavism. In a world of salesmen he would have been wealthy and successful, respected and powerful. Here his talents were useless, his existence marginal; he could only peer in at the people around whom this world revolved. But punchboards and turkeys are an elevator boy's perennial prerogative. "Sure," Fader said. He punched out a cylinder of paper and reached for his pocket. "Just ten cents, sir. This is your lucky day." The doors parted. In front of them was the wide, cool, deserted lobby. Fader smiled ruefully. "I hope so." He flipped a dime at the boy and started out of the car. "Gould you give me a tip, sir?" the boy asked brightly. Fader swung around. "You've got the dime," he said impatiently. "Flip it!" With puzzled eyes, the boy spun the coin high in the air. "Gall it!" Fader ordered. "Heads," said the boy. He caught the coin and turned it over on his wrist. "It's tails," he said, looking down. "That's your answer. Here's your tip -- don't gamble! Anyone with no more psi than you hasn't got a chance." "I know I could be a winner, Mr. Martin," the boy pleaded. "All I need is a little capital. You can't get that at a few bucks a day. If you'd just give me one -- " Fader sighed. "Earthbound in the fifth," he said. "Yes, sir!" the boy exclaimed. In his eyes was a reflection of the gamblers' grail -- the sure thing. Fader turned away, a little sad. It was a good world, this red-andblack jungle, but there are misfits in even the best of worlds. Even Heaven had Lucifer. ished, and wide. Desks and shops were exposed and unromantic by morning sunlight. Only the tobacco-and-newscounter was staffed. The girl behind the counter was bright-eyed, brown-haired, and well-scrubbed. The cleanness of her beauty brought a smile to Fader's lips. "Just the Racing Form , Jan." He tossed thirty-five cents into the felt-lined box in front of her. "You don't look like a player. How come you're working?" "I used to be. Pretty good, too. But now I've got a young man -- " "Syndicate?" Fader asked. Color rose into her cheeks like a gay flag. "More like a partner. He's asked me to marry him." "A proper tribute," Fader commented. The forms changed but people remained the same. Women had always worked to give their men a start. They always would. "And how's he doing?" "Even better than we'd hoped." "No doubt I'll have to reckon with him some time -- if I last that long." She shook her head with finality. "Not with him, Fader. When he all decided." "Then I can wish him luck without reservation," Fader said, smiling. But as he turned away with the thick tabloid folded in his hand, he was thinking, If the boy's good , he'll never quit. The game gets in a man's blood . I wouldn't want it any other way. Jan was talking to him, he realized suddenly. He had fallen into a habit lately of these internal dialogues. Maybe it was because of this voice in his head. More likely it was age. He was getting old, he told himself ruefully. He had been on top too long; it was time he retired. He wouldn't, though. Not while he had a chip left. And not while he had a stake left in this other game -- the blue-chip game. "Roll for it, Fader?" the girl repeated. "Double or nothing?" She shook the imitation-leather cup. It clicked enticingly. Politely but firmly, Fader refused. "I'll need all my luck before the day is over." "Cowboy?" she asked anxiously. "Don't you read your own papers?" he asked, lifting a thick, dark eyebrow. "There's always another one. But this is different. The Examiner's here -- " Her eyes opened like fringed gentians before the sun. "I didn't know. Last time was fifty years ago, wasn't it?" "To the day," Fader agreed. "Very punctual people." "He's come to see if we can pass?" "That, I gather, is the general idea." The girl frowned and caught her red, full lower lip between her teeth. In the cup sitting on the green, the dice chattered. "What's the matter?" Fader asked. "I don't know." She shrugged the mood away. "It's just -- Oh -- the best of luck. With both your problems. We like our Banker, you see. We don't want to have to break in another one. And we'd like to pass the examination if -- if -- " Fader nodded. "If it doesn't involve any effort. Thanks for the good wishes. I'll need all the luck I can get." He walked through the broad archway into the casino. He couldn't avoid it if he wanted to. Traffic to and from rooms, restaurants, bars, shops, swimming pools, sun decks, golf links was routed past banks of slot machines and clusters of gaming tables. Facilities for trying a man's luck were always close at hand. The slot machines were in banks. Die-hards stood before them in tireless, trancelike concentration looking even more mechanical than the machines they fed so rhythmically. Fader looked down at his hand. A silver dollar was in the palm. He shrugged: such was the force of habit. It slipped into a waiting coin slot with an ease that was almost alive. Fader heard it hit bottom and pulled the handle as he passed. The bandit was old-fashioned. Most of them were. They did not differ materially from those in which his great-grandmother had squandered the week's grocery money. Gamblers are notoriously conservative; they want slot machines to look like coin traps instead of automatic venders. Chung-chung-chung! Bar! Bar! Bar! Cartwheels cascaded into the pay-off cup. Eighty of them made quite a din. "Another jackpot!" An apron girl hurried up to him smiling happily. "Put the cartwheels in a sack, eh? I'll take them with me." The sack was heavy, but Fader carried it to the door. The inevitable beggar was sitting there. This one was legless. He blinked blindly into the sunshine, his battered hat upside down between his legs to receive donations. He was there from choice, not necessity. In a completely straightforward sense, he was an employee of the house -- a convenience provided for the patrons -- and he worked his shift exactly like the croupiers and the apron girls. Fader had been lucky. He wanted to stay lucky. Gently he slipped the sack of coins into the hat. The old man turned his face up. "May the gods of chance smile on you," he whispered. The money would quickly disappear into the bandit thoughtfully installed at the beggar's side. It didn't matter. Fader had bought back his luck. Fader took three steps into the sunshine before he realized that the beggar was one of those ancient daredevils who had risked their lives in a no-limit game. What they had done, no one could ever forget. After them, there was no more need to buck the game. He was, perhaps, one of the lucky ones. He had come flaming down from that wall in the sky, but he had escaped alive. Destiny had claimed only his legs and his eyes. Fader remembered a tape he had heard once. He had listened to it with his hands sweaty and his body taut, as if he could help the ship through the invisible wall by an effort of will. That was foolish. The tape was more than fifty years old: "Twenty-four thousand miles, #  the voice had said. It had been flat and unemotional. "No trouble yet. Power still on. Still accelerating. Going to cut off soon and coast. Kennedy thinks it may make a difference. We'll see. Out now." But the tape went on, and the noises went on in the cramped third stage of the rocket. Behind everything was the rocket-thunder. Closer was breathing, heavy in the pickup. A switch clicked. The thunder cut off. It was gone. In its absence the other noises were much too loud. "Power off, now," said the nameless man. "Will try to coast through. Twenty-four thousand nine hundred. Should be soon now." His voice climbed a little, betrayed emotion for the first time. "Feel weightless, but I don't mind that. Nine hundred fifty. Sixty. Hope you're right, Kennedy. Ninety. Here we go. Hold your hats, boys -- " Tense, then distorted with surprise and fear: "Skin temp climbing. Melting! Instruments. Dashboard. All at once. No dice, boys. Going to try to jettison before it gets to me. Hope the cartridge works. Hope -- " After that there was nothing but background crackling on the tape and then nothing at all. Fader sat on the bench looking out over the irrigated velvety greenness of the fairways. They look like a vast crap table, he thought. His gaze climbed above the horizon toward the sky. Its blueness was bright and unclouded and pure. No one would suspect that it was a wall, just as definite stronger. Within its limits Earth was contained, complete in itself, and with it the race that had mastered it and sought to use it as a stepping stone to the stars. The long climb upward from the puddles and pools and seas was done. The Big Pit Boss had burned the dice as they passed the box. "The sky's the limit," he'd said. It was. Literally. Fader imagined ghostly cubes tumbling over the vast felt-lined table of Earth. Humanity had crapped out. The eternal frontier had been an illusion. On the day, # years ago, man discovered he was no longer alone, he learned that he was isolated. Man, the Gambler, had found the Big Game in town, and the policeman had told him to play solitaire in his own room. It was more than any gambler could endure. Man had been ready for millenia. Let the aliens come -- he was psychologically prepared for the meeting. The most primitive tribe would have received them as gods. The most sophisticated civilizations would have accepted them as fellow beings. If life on Earth were not an anomaly, then it existed throughout the universe. Even if habitable planets were as scarce as one to every # suns, there would stellar mathematics. Somewhere among them, then, should be at least one race technologically more advanced than man, and it would be long odds indeed if there weren't many. So went the reasoning, when reason was in fashion. In all the ages man had been ready. But he had not been ready for this. He had not been ready for the impossibly small ship that appeared suddenly above White Sands. He had not been ready for the emergence of a single manlike being or for his words, in impeccable English, "Earth is quarantined. Man cannot be accepted into the interstellar society of races until he meets certain standards of public and private behavior. Until then a wall will stand between Man and outer space. Do not attempt to break through -- it is deadly. Accept your lot. Perfect yourself." It was surprising but not unreasonable. If it was anything, it was much too reasonable. The philosophy of Western Civilization contained a vital premise: Man and his society were not perfect. Granted the premises of the alien -- #) the existence of a Galactic Union (evidence: the alien himself), and #) the ability to carry out his statements (evidence: the ship) -- then there was only one thing to do: perfect Man and his society. But what is obvious is not always possible. In one hand the alien held threats. The other held gifts. He offered assistance in helping humanity meet minimum Galactic standards. When that was refused -- for humanity does not take kindly to tutors -- he offered a convenient, fantastically efficient converter for solar energy and an energy storage device which escaped the fantastic only by comparison. Humanity accepted. There is such a thing as false pride. The alien left as he had come. He would return, he said, for periodic examinations of humanity's progress. Humanity frowned into the sky and disbelieved -- in spite of tapes, films, the alien artifacts, the converter and the battery. Man besieged the heavens with missiles, manned and unmanned. And he saw them fall, flaming like Lucifer into Hell. The wall was impassable and unbreakable. Man had met the alien, and the quality in which he had so prided himself -- the reasoning mind which could comprehend and conquer the universe -- had been brought to perfection by this race long ago. Man could never hope to catch up. A place becomes a prison when leaving it is forbidden. Earth was now a prison, and it was suddenly too small for Man. And the only route to a shorter sentence was good behavior. But perfect himself? Man wasn't built like that. He was competitive, and he had suddenly been denied the right to compete. The old competitions were pointless now, and it was obvious that the real fight was fixed. It was no surprise that Man had turned to his old mock struggles -- the games of chance -- and made all Earth a vast casino. In one sense it was a safety valve. The Examiner might understand. Whether he would sympathize and approve was another matter. I N the back pages of the Racing Form was a large ad printed like a news item. It announced, proudly: Fader glanced down the column. John Head, better known as Praying John, had taken the Golden dollars last night, causing a temporary suspension of play while the pit boss secured more funds. Head had placed a ten-dollar chip on Number # and let it ride. The number # had received the little ball five times in a row. The ad, of course, had been paid for by the Golden Nugget. Praying John's success was a fabulous stroke of luck for the casino, and they would be derelict if they did not publicize it to the hilt. The Nugget's wheel, obviously, was the most generous in Las Vegas and, therefore, in the world. Its patrons were the luckiest. Before those implications were forgotten, the casino would win back many times its original loss. Praying John was the best shill the Nugget ever had. He was also the most dangerous highroller current. The back pages of the Racing Form contained a few news items of a general nature. As the world's most widely circulated newspaper (Editions in Europe , Asia, Africa, South America, and Australia) the Daily Racing Form considered the coverage of non-sporting news a public duty. Fader was interested in only one short item. Under a Las Vegas dateline was the following information: Registering at the El Cortez Hotel in downtown Las Vegas this afternoon was a manlike creature who signed the register in meaningless hieroglyphics . Under questioning by the clerk, he asserted that he was the Examiner from the Galactic Union. The government, the creature is reported to have said, was already aware of his presence . No official could be reached to confirm this. It has been learned, however, that the White Sands spaceport ruins have been closed to the public, and a hurry-up call summoned government stickmen to turn back would-be-kibitzers... Fader smiled. If the inquiring reporter had seen the impossibly tiny ship among the rusty towers of the abandoned multiple-stage rockets, he would have been even more puzzled. Technicians requisitioned from a nearby pinball factory had offered odds that the thing could never get off the ground. It was a sucker bet, but it expressed their feelings perfectly. The sound of childish voices broke Fader's reverie. "Yeanh! Yeanh!" came the nasal chant. "Welsher! Welsher!" "We weren't neither playing for keeps," said a voice full of tears. "We weren't! We weren't!" The circle was inscribed in a sandy path that bisected the greenness. The morning sun made jewels of the scattered, marbles inside the circle, but they were forgotten. The boys had formed an ugly halfcircle, heavy sacks swinging in their hands. Its center was a boy whose back was toward Fader. The boys looked up in surprise when Fader said, "Now what's the trouble?" "Who wants to know?" snapped one of them, tossing back an unruly lock of hair. Beside him a friend nudged vigorously with his elbow and said in a stage whisper, "Shut up, Stupid! It's Fader." "You see, sir," said an earnest dark-haired boy, "we got up a little game, sir, and Kenny here wanted to play, but when we won he wouldn't pay." Fader turned inquiringly toward the golden-haired boy named Kenny. His tear-stained face was angelic with beauty and trust, but he clutched a slim sack of marbles tightly to his chest. His voice was a clear soprano. "Nobody said we were playing for keeps, sir." "Come over here a moment," Fader said gently, his heart leaden, and walked slowly to the bench, out of hearing of the others. "Kenny," he said, putting one hand on the boy's shoulder as he sat down, "there are some things you can't learn too early. One of them is that life is for keeps." "But they didn't tell me, sir -- " And he looked not so much like a fallen angel, as one who has let the shadow of a mortal fall upon him. "There comes a time -- always -- for everyone," Fader said slowly, "when he discovers the real nature of the world. Call it a moment of discovery, of illumination, of being born into the knowledge of good and evil. It is a sword with a double edge. It also teaches a person what he himself is like. You know I wouldn't tout you wrong, don't you?" "Yes, sir," the boy said, his eyes steady. "Afterwards," Fader went on, "the person realizes that the world is actually independent of his wishes, that it is he who must shape himself to fit it, and that his acceptance is conditional. But if a person wants acceptance, he must reshape himself to the world's standards. Right?" "Yes, sir," the boy said. "There are two kinds of people in the world," Fader said quietly. "There are players and there are kibitzers. The players are competitors. They throw themselves into the game, learn the rules, abide by them, and try to win -- which is to get back some part of the omnipotence they have lost. The kibitzers are content to stand by and watch and never to be a part of the game at all. Understand?" "Yes, sir." "There're two kinds of people, Kenny, and there's nothing wrong with either one of them. But the secret of happiness lies in discovering which kind you are and sticking to it. If you're a player, play by the rules and play hard, accept your winnings, pay your losses, and don't complain. Chance has no favorites. If you're going to kibitz, kibitz and savor the pleasures of watching. Don't be half one, half the other, and all miserable." "I understand, sir," Kenny said manfully, his chin high, and he handed Fader the slim sack of marbles. "I won't play any more; there's nothing I want that much." He turned and ran quickly over the green turf toward the hotel. Fader watched him out of sight, a brooding frown darkening his face. It was a jungle world, certainly, as it had always been, and a jungle is no place for angels. That was a pity, but there was no help for it. He swung around to the silent group of players and held out the sack to the boy with the unruly lock of hair. This one Fader could understand. Here, at least, was the stuff of which players were made. Some fifty years ago Fader himself might have looked much like that. The boy took the sack with a quick, grubby hand. "You won these at a game of skill," Fader said evenly. "That isn't playing the game. A game of skill is only another way of cheating. Don't kid yourselves that you were gambling. Gambling is ruled by chance." But the winner, as Fader turned away, was unrepentant. Fader chuckled and shook his head as he climbed into the helijet summoned by the doorman's builtin radio. "The El Cortez," he said into the whpre-box. The rotors lifted him upward and then cut out as the rear jets kicked the plane toward the city of Las Vegas. As the city sprawling in the sands rushed toward him, Fader had time to study its giant, three-sided tote board and the names and odds circling eternally, light against blackness, for every citizen to see and put down his bet. The odds at the moment concerned the big, perpetual battle for the Bank: monte jones # , # , # #-I John head I , # , # #-I Although Jones and Knight were several lengths in front of Praying John, it was obvious to Fader -- as it was to the general bettor -- that they had lost their luck and their nerve. They hadn't been a threat for days. Even as he watched, the totals of Jones and Knight dwindled by a few thousand dollars and that of Head jumped by more than a million. His odds were lowered to #-#. Fader took a deep breath. Damn all highrollers at a time like this! The helijet zoomed toward the landing platform far below on the El Cortez roof. Fader booked a small bet with himself that the rotors would not kick on. Fader of Kenny, the boy with the curly golden hair. Given surpassing intelligence, character integration, and the knowledge of great power, the boy could become a twin to this creature. The Examiner was a superior being. There was no denying it. Recognition was instinctive. Fader battled an inferiority complex that threatened momentarily to overwhelm him. The Examiner was angelic, as Michael was angelic -- extraordinarily tall and slim with a beauty that was golden and calm. He had an aura compounded of purity, intelligence, and power; it was almost physical. Fader blinked several times before he convinced himself that it was an illusion. Like Michael, the Examiner held the secret of the mighty word by which God created Heaven and Earth. Like Michael, he stood guard with a flaming sword before the gates of Paradise from which mankind had been thrust and could not enter again. Beside him Fader felt short, animal, vulgar, stupid, like the primeval monkey chattering .in the trees at the straight, silent protoman moving along the jungle trails below. Although the Examiner was dressed much like Fader -- colorful, synthetic-fibered slacks and shirt, cuffed tightly at wrist and ankle, the knees padded -- he outshone the clothes. By contrast, like the spacious splendor of the suite, they seemed poor, tawdry, shabby things. This was the being who had the power to say, "Your time of trial is over. The wall is down; the flaming sword is lowered. You are free to come and go as you wish." What the Examiner said was, "You represent the government?" His voice was deep and melodious. Fader shook himself and nodded. "I can speak for the House. They call me the Banker." "Conditions have changed since my last visit." Fader couldn't decide whether it was an idle comment or a statement portentious with meaning. "You were the one who came last time -- fifty years ago?" "Yes. My race outlives yours considerably." "Naturally?" "I'm unable to answer the question," the Examiner said regretfully. "You must recognize that information cannot be divulged which might aid Earth in evading the Union's ruling. Even such a simple statement as you request might have unfortunate consequences. I am here as an Examiner. Let it suffice that a portion of my lifetime has been devoted to the problem that Earth represents." "Our regrets," Fader said drily. "They aren't necessary. This is a service to my society which I -- like any citizen -- am happy to perform." "You wouldn't give us the secret of longevity, then, even if you had it?" "We have given you all we can. Even if we could give it to you -- and it might solve many of your problems -- it would be unwise while you cannot control your own numbers." "We need longevity to find the answers to our problems," Fader summed up, "but we must have the answers before you will give us longevity?" "Granted the premises, the conclusion would be correct. But you called the government 'the House' and yourself 'the Banker.' Those terms were not current when I was here last." Fader summarized the long story in a few sentences. The gifts of the Galactic Union had made this society feasible. With an unlimited, convenient source of energy, Earth became a world in which no one had to work. But for the majority of mankind there had to be a reason for existence. That reason was gambling. There was nothing to be won? True. It was an artificial competition? True. But that was Man's nature; he had to compete, somehow, someway. And in the final analysis it was no more artificial than most competitions. The society worked ; that was the least that could be said for it. Because the symbols for which humanity gambled -- the matches, the chips, the dollars -- were limited, men had to work to get them. Thus certain essential duties were performed. No one had to gamble, but if he chose to he had to work for his starting capital. The money with which he was paid had no intrinsic value; it could buy nothing except what people chose to sell for it -- which is true, of course, of any medium of exchange. What could not be sold were the necessities of life. No one would buy, for people only buy what they do not have. As valid reasons for government vanished, elective offices dwindled. When a few appointive positions became necessary -- stickmen, who collected revenue, and judges -- the man with the most chips was asked to appoint them. He became, in a practical sense, the head of the government, the Banker. The governSH#LL ment became the House because it was a partner in every gambling enterprise. "They call me the Banker," Fader said wryly, "but there's a better name for me. Shill." "A shill," Fader explained, "is a houseman who poses as a player to stimulate the play. In the sense that I perform no useful function except as a figurehead who induces other men to compete by his example, I shill for this society. I suppose there's a little bit of shill in every public figure. I'm not ashamed of it; a good shill is a rare thing." "I should think," the Examiner pointed out, "that it would depend on what he shilled for. Our reasons for quarantining Earth remain valid. You have not evolved a sound society. You have not outgrown idle competition. The goals you seek are still false. You are still unfit for the society of civilized beings." "I hope that you haven't prejudged us." "I point out only that we found you -- technologically precocious and psychologically retarded -- about to burst out among us. For your own sake, we placed a quarantine so that you might develop naturally -- " "How can we develop naturally when a flaming wall above us proclaims that we are prisoners dependent for our well-being and even for our continued existence upon the mercy and good will of unseen aliens?" "It is a symptom of moral savagery," the Examiner said gently, "that our intentions and motives should be suspect. We have gained nothing from this meeting of races; we have no hopes of gaining anything except, perhaps, the possibility of free association with another civilized race. Our theoreticians have said that you are not beyond redemption; they said you needed time. Your environment had developed a deep-grained competitive spirit which only time and an amelioration of conditions might hope to change. We gave you leisure... Fader frowned, wondering, as he had wondered before, if the aliens were telepathic. "A blank wall " said the voice inside his head. "Like trying to read the mind of a fish" Completely non-telepathic then? Or able to blank himself out? "Who knows? My guess: even if he's telepathic, he can't read an alien. I can't do anything with him." Might as well forget it, then. If he can, there's no help for it -- we're up the creek without a paddle . "I ask you," Fader said to the Examiner, "whether you did not give us gifts out of a feeling of guilt." The Examiner's shrug was as natural as if he had been shrugging all his life. "We are not insulated from error or immune to emotion. We may have been prompted by a small desire to make amends. But what did you do with the leisure we gave? You set up new goals even more ephemeral, sought by methods even more disproportionate. Can you defend such a world, so unequal, so pointless?" "Ethically, morally, economically I can defend it -- any way you wish. Pointless? You miss the point. Of course we have inequality -- how can any society avoid it? -- But note that this is not the inequality of birth, of intelligence, of skill, or of anything else permanent and unchanging. This is the fleeting, impartial inequality of chance. If it raises a man high one day, it may drop him below the lowest tomorrow. And those who are broke this week may rule next week. Everyone is equal in the eyes of chance." "The equality is spurious which takes no account of merit." "Merit?" Fader asked in surprise. "What intrinsic merit do we this world; we exist in it only because it seems the lesser of evils. We have no right, sir, in ourselves, to claim anything of destiny except the impartial distribution of her temporary favors. Our only proper demand is that the game be honest." "Every society has a duty," the Examiner said soberly. "That duty is to reward and so promote the best conduct -- that conduct which is best for the race, for the society, and for the individual -- in that order. The great flaw in your race and your society was that it inverted this normal order. I have seen no evidence of change." "Who knows?" Fader said softly. "We aren't worried about the enforcing of arbitrary rules on everyone impartially. We ask only that a man restrict his actions so that they do not threaten or endanger the person, property, or happiness of anyone else. Furthermore, not having been consulted on his forcible induction into this world, he may choose to play or not. If he chooses to play, we ask only that he obey the rules of the game and leave the rest to chance. "But you came to look not to listen." the tall, lean man, his face carved by ten thousand fevered nights, and the taller, leaner, more subtly jointed being from another world who had come to sit in judgment upon this one. As they entered the self-service elevator, Fader noticed that the alien hummed. As they stepped out into the wide lobby and walked into the sunbright street, it stopped. Fader knew what the technicians would tell him. They would say that it was a gravity neutralizer or generator, or an energy shield or a communicator or some other fantastic thing. They would deduce this or that, fit it here or there into the puzzle, and eventually they would have a complete picture of this great Galactic Union. Everything was useful. "Noted' said the voice inside his head. A lean, black cat darted out of an alley to their left and paused to study them with large, speculative eyes. Fader hastily crossed the street, beckoning the Examiner to follow. The Examiner looked thoughtful, but said nothing. A row of shops were to their right, their windows displaying casually the goods available within. Most of it was handicraft stuff -- increasingly desirable in an age of automatic factories. All was for sale; it could be bought with that intrinsically worthless stuff -- money. The Examiner passed from a window displaying a single, large, red tomato to a shop distinguished by a bucket swinging from a mast anchored above the front window. The lettering on the window said, "A bucket-shop," Fader explained, "once specialized in gambling with clients on bets the clients couldn't win, pretending to deal in securities that it actually never bought. But now there are no stocks, no grain futures, no markets, and no need for them. Bucketshops today make book on any contingency the customer chooses, setting adequate odds to protect themselves. In effect, the customer accepts long odds for the privilege of choosing his bet." "Then he can bet on anything." "Anything ascertainable. The proprietor of this shop, for instance, would accept your bet on how many molecules of water that bucket would hold, whether the next helijet to land on the hotel roof would be a Ford or a Cadillac, whether you will die before you reach the age of five hundred -- " "It serves as a form of insurance, then?" "It could but it doesn't. No one has any reason to be afraid of the future." The public room of the bucketshop was spotless and air-conditioned. Walls to the right and left were miniature, black tote boards. On them, in glowing, occasionally changing letters and figures, were the odds against the occurrence of a number of contingencies, in alphabetical order, beginning with "Air Temperature (noon)." Two rows of comfortable-looking chairs were lined back to back down the center of the room. The customers in them studied the walls or placed their bets with the proprietor at the back of the room. He sat behind a high, wide desk in his black coat and green eyeshade. "Fader!" he explained. "What can I do for you?" "Name the odds on rain before noon." The man in the green eyeshade pointed to the wall at his left. The wall announced: During the next hour #-I Before noon #-I "Want to take a flyer?" Fader shook his head. "Sorry. It just might rain, and I'm going to need my luck. Are you making book on the possible lifting of the quarantine?" "No. But I'll take all bets at ten to one over the next fifty years." "It's your opinion," the Examiner asked politely, "that the Galactic Union won't lower the barrier?" "That's the meaning of the odds," he said, studying the Examiner as if he were seeing him for the first time. "If they'd ever meant to take it off, I don't think they'd have put it on." "What odds," the Examiner asked softly, "on man reaching outer space?" "That's a different matter," said the man in the green eyeshade. "On that you'll never get more than even money from me." "He was expressing his own opinion, of course," the Examiner said, when they reached the street. "That's all any of us can do," Fader observed. "He's different only in his readiness to put his money where his mouth is." "He owns that business clear?" "Less the government share," Fader corrected. "For gambling profits that's fifty percent. Government stickmen collect daily -- " "That should complicate the business of government." Actually, of course, it had simplified everything. The few essential government expenses were taken care of on a daily or weekly basis. The remainder was distributed periodically as a citizen's bonus. So it returned to those it came from, and the circle was complete. The government stopped losing money. Taxes were eliminated. The staggering public debt was retired within a few years. It was true that the government was involved in gambling, but then it always had been. Even when gambling was generally illegal, most states were partners in legalized parimutuel betting at the tracks; only when bets were offered and accepted away from the track -- where no portion of the money was forfeit to the state treasury -- was it declared illegal. In Nevada the state was a partner in all gambling enterprises -- on top of taxes and fees -- to the tune of two percent of the gross. The federal government taxed gamblers and gambling devices wherever they happened to be, irrespective of their legality. Such schizophrenic standards made honesty in government a practical impossibility. Most people and most governments never quite made up their minds about gambling. Gambling always existed on the borderline of respectability. It would be easier to count the societies that did not gamble. Australian and South African bushmen competed for prizes. The primitive Teutons gambled themselves into slavery like Sudanese and West African natives, -- who first staked wives and children. Chinese gamblers wagered their right hands and, losing, cut them off. Wealthy Romans lost their entire fortunes on chariot races ; Twentieth Century men embezzled and went to jail, speculated and committed suicide in droves. Gambling was always a government preoccupation and often a government monopoly. Queen Elizabeth I established a lottery in England. German princes of the #th and #th centuries maintained gambling as a state monopoly. Lotteries helped found the United States; General Washington bought the first ticket in a benefit for the U.S. Army. In #, Brazil's treasury got one-sixth of its income from a share in legalized gambling enterprises. Periodic attempts at suppression were based upon the assumption that gambling injured the productivity of workmen, but sometimes it was considered to threaten the basic structures and assumptions of society. Yet even in the middle of the twentieth century, when gambling was generally illegal, it was moters. That was more than the combined profits of United States Steel, General Motors, General Electric, and the remaining ninetyseven of the hundred largest United States manufacturing companies. "But," Fader pointed out, "with the devices you gave us we didn't have to worry about production. We didn't have to, meddle in the lives and pastimes of the public." They had reached the residential section -- colorful, blown-plastic houses in neat little green plots. On the opposite side of the street was a collection of plastic bubbles joined by roofed passageways. "That's a schoolhouse," Fader said. "And it seems to be recess." The playground held a few groups of eight or nine years of age, and one kindergarten group that couldn't have been more than six. The last group was close to one of the walls. Some of the children were kneeling. Others formed a circle around them. Fader heard the familiar sound of two cubes clicking together. "Roll 'em," said a childish treble, "you're faded!" An arm moved back and whipped forward. Two transparent dice tumbled out, hit against the wall, and spun backward until they came to rest. "Snake eyes!" cried the same voice with glee. A boy raked up a small heap of coins in the center of the circle. As the Examiner moved aside, Fader heard the voices following them. "They hit!" "They miss!" "A natural!" "Baby needs a new pair of shoes!" "Sixty days. You'll never make it!" "And up jumped the devil... "Gambling?" the Examiner asked, nodding toward the little knots of children. "Obviously." "Couldn't they be doing something more rewarding?" "How?" Fader asked, surprised. "This is their education, their preparation for life." "They study this?" "Exactly." A slow smile played over Fader's lips. I'll have to watch out for some of them -- if I'm around a few years longer. The young ones will be taking over from me some day." "Instead of learning about life, they learn to play games," the Examiner said, nodding his beautiful head. "What is life but a game? Their education has been re-oriented, that's all." Fader caught the arm of a passing boy, a sturdy, bright-eyed fellow. He waited respectfully. "What do you learn in school, son?" Fader asked. The boy looked politely blank. Fader smiled. "That was a httle general, wasn't it? Do you learn to read?" "Yes, sir," the boy said. "What do you read?" "Let's see." There's Hoyle's Rules of Card Games. This semester we've got Scarne on Dice. Next semester we're going to study Jacoby on Poker." "Can you write?" Fader asked. "Yes, sir." And, without prompting, he continued, "We've been policy slips, that sort of thing." "Arithmetic?" "Elementary odds." "Thanks, boy," Fader dismissed him with a smile. Fader spread his arms out wide as if he included the world within them. "An education must be centered around something, and what is in the center is relatively unimportant. Gambling, embraces all the vital branches of knowledge. It concerns itself with sociology, psychology, and history. It makes necessary the study of physics, chemistry, electronics, statistical analysis, and the scientific method. It concentrates on mathematics, odds, and the nature of chance and its role in the universe. In the sense that probability began as a study of gambling odds, it gave birth to modern mathematics." In secondary school and college curriculums the courses became more specialized : The Ethics of the Gambler, Statistical and Inductive Probability, Craps Through the Ages (with laboratory), The Uncertainty Principle and It's Counter-part in the Macrocosm, The Psychology of the Winner, Playing Card Design, The Loser's Ductless Glands, Von Neumann's Theory of Games... "There is no greater laboratory," Fader said, "for the study of psychology and sociology than this society. Here things are stripped of nonessentials, of all pretense. Every day a man can see -- and run -- every mood from the darkest gloom to the most ecstatic joy. As Nick the Greek said more than one hundred years ago, 'A man will expose his deepest emotions for a tendollar bill.' " restaurant and glanced up at the tote board a few blocks away. The situation had already changed. monte jones # , # , # #-I john head # , #I , #I #-I lucky knight # , # , # #-I Praying John had almost doubled his capital. He had won an amazing Automatically Fader calculated the odds. He would give two-to-one that he would be forced to meet John Head before the week was out. A lot of smart money was going down on Head ; the odds showed that. The lucky man always attracts a crowd of side-bettors who hope that some of his luck will rub off. At the table the Examiner toyed idly with a meal of plankton and chlorella. Reaching for the salt, Fader knocked it over. Salt poured out onto the table. Automatically he picked up a pinch and tossed it over his left shoulder. "That seems to belong to the same category of actions," the Examiner observed, "as your avoidance of a black cat this morning. Even the meaningless becomes significant when persisted in." "If you were around me longer," Fader commented drily, "you would notice that I wear this same rather threadbare shirt on important occasions, that I go out of my way to give money to beggars -- " "They are efforts to propitiate some forgotten gods, then, in order to secure good luck or ward off bad hick." Surprisingly, Fader shook his head. "There's nothing forgotten about these gods. They're very much alive. Gamblers are superstitious, sure. They have to be. Their fates are controlled by chance. So are all our fates. We would be smart to pay more attention to the propitiation of those possible controlling powers which say to us: win, live, grow -- or lose, die, diminish. On a hunch, perhaps, the gambler hedges his basic bet with life. He is familiar with circumstances which can scarcely be explained except by predicating the dominion of the unseen. Luck has favorites; it is arbitrary, ironic, decisive -- " "Projection," the Examiner observed, "is a familiar phenomenon." "What does a man lose if he acts as if chance were a vital, manipulatable entity?" "The power of making his own decisions." "Those are best left to chance. Like this." Fader's hand moved. The silver dollar glittered in the air. "Tails," he called it, and grimaced. The Examiner leaned forward. "What decision was that?" "Whether I should continue the conversation," Fader answered wryly. "The coin said yes. For millenia, you see, we chased cause, like a pack of dogs after a bitch in heat. Where did it take us? To that fiery wall you placed above us in the sky. Your ship just 'happened' to be close by when we emerged into space." "That's right." "It was chance, then. Luck was with you, sir. Ours had run out. Can you blame us, if we look on causation with disfavor and set chance in its proper place -- that of the supreme arbiter of the universe?" "It may be natural but it is scarcely intelligent -- " "Suppose we had reached Mars or Venus before you had discovered us? You wouldn't have chased us back. Isn't that right?" "I can say only that it has happened that way in other cases," the Examiner said gravely. "Then we adjusted ourselves to the reality of the presence of the uninvited races among us. But you were not yet in our midst. From our viewpoint, we happened upon Earth just in time." "So it would seem," Fader said softly. "And from your viewpoint," the Examiner went on earnestly. "It is not so much a denial of space as the establishing of an entrance examination. Demonstrate that you are capable of making sensible laws and abiding by them from no compulsion except that of logic and we will welcome you with great warmth and joy. You wouldn't admit a savage into your society until you were satisfied that he was capable of obeying your laws and predisposed to do so." "Perhaps not," Fader admitted. "But that presupposes that you have property rights on space." "It does," the Examiner agreed. "And we do." Fader studied the Examiner's face, moved for the first time by emotion ; what emotion it was, Fader couldn't decide. The Examiner went on. "It is painful for me to speak bluntly. On my world it would be considered an insult that you force me to do so. Among civilized men, offensive speech is unnecessary. The facts of existence are apparent to everyone. I mention this only to excuse my own conduct -- " "Because after all," Fader interjected, "we are an inferior race." "Your race has an unnatural bent for rubbing salt in your own wounds. We do have the power to restrict any race to its own world. The presence of that power implies the right to use it -- " "I have heard that theory expressed before," Fader mused. "Then it was called 'might makes right.' " "It is not only might that makes right. Wisdom makes right. In any society except the most primitive, might and wisdom are only two aspects of the same thing. What we have done is forbidden your entrance into our society, defined as the area beyond the orbital sphere of this particular world's outer satellite. The right to determine the constitution of any society belongs to the society alone." "You've penned up your savage," Fader said. "But you wouldn't be surprised if the savage should try to escape?" "Surprised, no. Concerned, yes. The power of the Galactic Union is not lightly invoked." "So we have cause to understand," Fader said grimly. "Attempts have already been made?" "Naturally," Fader said. "How could we accept your word for the existence of a wall around Earth? It might have been a bluff." "The Galactic Union," the Examiner said evenly, "does not bluff. It does not need to." "True. In this instance, anyway. Ships probed it here, there, whereever there might be a possible hole, and they flamed down from it like falling stars." "And you discovered only that it was there." "That's right," Fader said heavily. "We don't know to this day whether the effect is caused by a force field, an ionized layer, mass hypnosis, or something completely beyond our comprehension." "No reaction said the voice inside Fader's head. "It must not be any of those . Surely he'd have twitched a muscle somewhere ." "And you won't find out from me," the Examiner added. "All you need to know is that the wall will keep you in until we choose to remove it." "We wonder," Fader remarked, "how your ship managed to come through the barrier -- and how you will leave. Can you turn off the wall at will, does it cut off automatically as your ship approaches, or is there some immunity in the materials or construction of the ship itself?" The Examiner shook his head. "Precautions have been taken to keep us from learning?" Fader asked innocently. "They have. Less civilized races may be tempted to force answers from Examiners. That cannot be allowed. Reprisals -- which I cannot itemize or categorize -- would be taken. Moreover, either I know nothing, or the answers are locked into a neural pattern which only death can dissolve. That is, if you are able to put me to the question in spite of my considerable ability to resist." "You wrong us," Fader said. "Force is the farthest from our intentions. We are, however, a people with free-roving, speculative minds. We speculate, for instance, that we might be able to learn a great deal from an inspection of your little ship -- " "That, too," the Examiner said firmly, "you cannot do. The port can't be opened without destroying the ship. Even if you could enter safely, what you saw would be meaningless." "Don't underestimate us," Fader advised easily. "We are a clever, ingenius people." "We do not underestimate you. But you could no more understand the devices inside my ship than a bushman could understand one of your printed circuits without any knowledge of electricity." "This began, I think, with your hope that we weren't trying to escape. You've seen our rusty ships; let them answer." " Billy's inside. He just reported." Inside the ship? "Right" He's not to touch anything. He understands that, doesn't he? "Sure. Don't worry. He wouldn't know what to touch. He's just taking pictures. He wants to say it's no dice, though. It's all crazy in there. No apparent controls. No power plant. Just lots of decorations. Can't tell the controls from the decorations without a program." Maybe the experts can make something out of it. "Too bad they can't get in there themselves." That's the price they pay for being experts. Fader completed the pushing of his chair back under the table and looked up. "The next item on the agenda is a trial by chance." room was identified by a miniature statue of Justice, scales in one hand, sword in the other, standing on a corner of the desk. The desk itself was a transparent, red cube decorated with opaque white spots. The top was covered with green felt. The judge behind the desk was listening to a summation by a man in a green eyeshade and a black coat. The man in front of the desk had, the stickman declared, made a bet that be could beat another man at a game of chess. The bet had been made publicly; the game had been played publicly. The accused man had won. The judge nodded at Fader and then asked the accused man if the charge were true. "I did what he said." "Have you played chess against that man before?" "Yes." "Did you beat him then?" "Yes." "Has he ever beaten you?" "No." "I ask you, isn't it a fact that skill is so predominant an element in the game of chess that the outcome of any one game can be accurately predicted?" "Well -- '" "In every game there is an admitted and recognized advantage on one side or the other?" "Well -- yes. But he said he could beat me. He thought he could beat me. We were betting on a difference of opinion." "But you knew -- did you not -- that you were superior, that you could beat him, just as you had beaten him before?" "That was my opinion." "And his opinion to the contrary was only evidence of his ignorance of the game?" "Well -- I won -- " "Exactly. You were cheating. "Some opinions are founded on fact and some are baseless," the judge said. "The person who has knowledge and bets in accordance with it, is taking an unfair advantage. To take an unfair advantage is to cheat, and cheating will not be tolerated." Fifty years ago courts had been concerned with the suppression of gambling. This society was not remotely concerned with suppression. But it was concerned with the function of all courts, the preservation of society. The greatest threat against a society based on gambling was cheating. Only widespread dishonesty could incite rebellion and force a return to yesterday's narrow, futile puritanism. A game of skill could not be defined except as a form of cheating. It was as reprehensible as the loaded dice or the gimmicked wheel. In fact, it was even more dangerous to society. "But understand this," the judge concluded. "Society is concerned only with your public acts. What you do in private does not concern us. But in acting publicly you made society the judge of your actions. We disapprove. Have you anything to say before I pass sentence?" "No, sir." "You are fined the full amount of the bet," the judge said sternly, "and you are forbidden for a period of six months to enter any public place where gambling is conducted, to place any public bets with anyone or by any public method of communication. Do you wish to appeal?" "Yes, sir," said the convict. The judge touched the base of the goddess of justice. A door sprang open. Out upon the felt top of the desk rolled a single, manysided die, on each face of which was engraved an "A" or a "D." It stopped with a "D" uppermost. "The appeal is denied," said the judge. "In our courts," Fader muttered to the Examiner, "justice is not only blind, it is as impartial as chance." A cab drifted down from the sky like a whirling seedpod and waited patiently while Fader and the Inspector climbed in. Fader whispered into the where-box. "You have a great preoccupation with cheating," the Examiner observed. "It's a serious problem" Fader replied soberly. "The basic premise of our society is equal opportunity. If the odds are rigged in favor of anyone, it will result, inevitably, in the ultimate destruction of the society. It may not be a perfect society, but it is a good world in which no one goes naked, hungry, or unsheltered. There is no war, no murder, no crime. The ideal form of competition is available everywhere, to everyone. It's a wideopen world, with impenetrable skies." "But you have trouble with cheating?" "Outside of the games of skill, no. There is a kind of Gresham's Law of gambling -- honest games drive out the crooked ones. A gambling house that consistently rigged the games or the odds would soon be deserted; the customers would soon transfer their patronage to houses that gave them better returns for their money. Games of skill are another thing." "Why is that?" # "The human critter is funny. He has to demonstrate his superiority; it's a compulsion to compete and it dies hard. Man can't stop trying to beat the game. That's what makes him unique." "And that," the Examiner said quietly, "is what makes him an undesirable. The only citizens we can accept are those who will play the game according to the rules." "According to your rules," Fader amended. "Life's only requirement is survival." "But when we ourselves decide the conditions under which we shall survive -- then we become Life's master instead of its slave." Fader studied the Examiner's face. It was calm and peaceful ; this face, if any, had mastered Life. From these lips Man could accept the advice of the angels. Fader wondered, as he had wondered before, if that day one hundred years ago had seen the alien's first visit. "Don't expect the impossible," he said. "Man has always insisted on making his own rules as he went along. I'm not praising or defending him. That's just the way he is." "Then he must reconcile himself to seclusion. It is our game, and we do make the rules. But no race is so rigid that it cannot change; no species is so stupid that it cannot learn. My only question is: can you teach yourselves? So far I haven't found any evidence that you can." "What kind of evidence?" Fader asked quickly. "My visit to this world should be the central fact of your society. Around it, the school curriculum should be developed. The great philosophic question of the century should be how humanity can make itself acceptable to the Galactic Union. Instead I find that nothing is taught about us, nothing is said about us, and nothing is done." Fader smiled wryly. "Here the basic facts of life are not the subject of classroom discussion. Nor do philosophers concern themselves with questions already settled. What we are doing -- that you must see for yourself." "Billy's out . Just reporting . No incident." The jets cut out, and the taxi hung, swaying, from its rotors. Below them was a long, dark oval around a central field of manicured turf. Along one side of the oval stretched crowded stands. "We should be just in time," Fader said, "for the fourth race." colors of their stables, the squat, buglike machines raced around the oval, jostling each other at the turns, falling behind, pushing hard to pass in the stretch, and finally flashing under the finish line in front of the cheering crowd. Fader studied the horse in the victor's chute, where it was nuzzling its fill of current, and glanced down at his program. Shoo-In, Calumet entry, the favorite. He looked up at the tote board. The horse had paid #-#. In a box a few hundred feet way, a knot of young men were yelling excitedly, jumping, pounding one of their number on the back. Fader smiled; someone had a winner. "Isn't it obvious," the Examiner asked politely, "that one of these machines is built better than another, that one is intrinsically faster? What uncertainty is there to bet on?" Horse racing had been man's perenial pastime for millenia, but the machine age brought a revolution. As civilization grew more complicated, more urban, people became more interested in machines than animals. The tracks, frantically searching for ways to stay in business, had an inspiration. Researchers into response and learning mechanisms, had developed a simple electrical device for studying the process. It sought out a source of current and charged itself, learned a maze, and retraced its path to its "food" in shorter times. Here, in primitive form, was a device which combined mechanics with the individuality and uncertainty of horses. The mechanical horses became a craze. They took over the tradition, color, and ceremony of the track instead of the speedway. To the public they developed personalities and recognizable techniques. One was smart in the jams; another was fast getting away; a third was strong at the finish. Running times varied considerably depending upon lubrication, overhaul, repairs and innovations, track conditions, and a certain intangible -- The fifth race was a continual human thunder from the starting gate sprint to the finish. The tote board told Fader that his tip had got around. The odds on Earthbound had dropped from #-I to #-#. Like most horseplayers, the elevator boy couldn't keep a good thing to himself. "Horseplayers die broke," Fader muttered. It was Earthbound and Fencebuster going toward the wire nose and nose. Slowly Fencebuster pulled away and flashed across the line. Fencebuster had come in at #. That Earthbound should have lost to a dog like that was nightmare stuff. He shrugged. That's what made horse races. "If you like," he said, as he got to his feet, "we can go around to the stables and see the horses." They passed close to the group of jubilant young men Fader had noticed before. "Four winners in a row!" one of them shouted. "What're you gonna do now, Johnny-boy? Are you gonna choose the old man, Johnny?" He was talking to a dark-haired, sullen-looking boy in the center of the group. The boy muttered something, but Fader and the Examiner were already past. Johnny ! Fader turned the name over and peered . under it. Could that sullen boy be Praying John Head? He knew, with a sick, cold feeling in the pit of his stomach, that it was. "You're right . We've got our eye on him," Want to hook a bet on how soon he chooses me? "Nope, He hasn't quite made up his mind." The challenge, Fader knew with intuitive certainty, would come before the day was over. No matter what effect it had on the future of all Earth, it would come. It was a hell of a time for a boy like Johnny to lift himself out of the masses and drive for the top. But that, after all, was the function of the society. The horse lay upside down on the workbench, its insides strewn across the surface. The Examiner glanced casually at the haphazard arrangement of wires and motors, transistors, condensers, and other items of electrical equipment that Fader couldn't put a name to. "I see," said the Examiner. Fader frowned. Had the alien understood it completely in that one sweeping glance? "I don't understand this receptorlike mechanism which seems to lead to the variable accelerator, bypassing the battery." "That," the greasy mechanic said proudly, "is the button. Invented right here in the Calumet Stable almost fifty years ago." "And a notable contribution to the economy," Fader added. "What does it do?" the Examiner asked. The mechanic wiped his hand across his sweaty forehead. It left a black smear. "It speeds up the horse. That's what it does." "How?" The mechanic scratched his head. "Well, the bettors, they hope their horses win. If they hope hard enough, the button picks it up, see, and makes the horse go faster." "An application," Fader said, "of what we call the Rhine Effect." "Some sort of mental control of matter?" the Examiner asked skeptically. "Yeah," the mechanic said. "Yeah. That's it." "Have you any proof that there is such a thing?" "Not what you'd call proof, maybe," the mechanic admitted. "But we don't have any proof that there ain't, either. And it sure pepped up the betting." "An increase in the circulation of money," Fader said, "is always a good thing." "And is it a good thing to delude the general public into belief in fantasies?" "Fantasies?" Fader repeated as they threaded their way through the crowd heading toward the parimutuel windows. "You have no proof," the Examiner pointed out. "Depends on your definition of proof. Suppose a man should toss a coin into the air and call it heads. What would you call it if heads came up?" "Chance." "Suppose a machine should flip it, with a man concentrating on making it come up heads, and it came up heads one hundred times out of one hundred?" "Then -- possibly -- I might suspect that something immaterial was influencing the coin. Have you seen that happen?" "Not personally," Fader admitted. "But I've heard about it. My experience as a gambler makes me suspicious of anything that consistently beats the odds." "If you were a scientist," the Examiner said evenly, "what you would suspect would be any easy explanation for phenomena that cannot be duplicated under scientifically controlled conditions. By tonight I will have my decision." "And will Earth have it, too?" Fader asked. "Yes." Fader could not repress a shiver. It was a familiar sensation, compounded of fear and excitement. A helijet swooped down at his summons. "The Wheel," he said into the where-box. The taxi lifted on whirring vanes. "It would be an honor," Fader remarked, "if you would consent to do the drawing in this semi-annual lottery. Lottery players are a superstitious lot -- even more than the rest of us. They like ceremony." "I have no objection," the Examiner said. "Good," Fader said happily. "We'll have to dress you for the part." ing room. Politely but firmly, the Examiner had made it clear that he wished to be alone. It didn't matter to Fader. The cameras would see more than he could. When the Examiner finally came out, he walked in a blaze of glory. The rose-red silk of his blouse was sprinkled with diamonds, and his slacks were almost stiff with priceless hand embroidery. "Policy players," Fader told him, "have a saying: 'A raggedy man wears his hard luck on his back.' " v # The broad plaza was jammed so tightly that it looked pale with upturned faces. The giant, clearplastic wheel was almost filled with held up his hands toward the pallid lake. "Let the drawing begin," he said. Hidden microphones picked up his words and threw them out for the waiting ears. The crowd roared like a crashing surf. The giant wheel spun until its outlines blurred and the clacking of the tiny balls against the sides was a steady drum roll. It coasted to a stop. A small door swung open. The Examiner reached into the wheel and pulled out a ball. It fell into two halves. Inside was a slip of paper. He read off the number printed on it. At the same instant, each numeral sprang up, glowing, on the board behind him. Again the wheel was closed, was spun. Again the Examiner reached into it. He read off a second number. There were twenty prizes, and they were drawn in ascending order. On the ninth draw, a woman's voice screamed, "That's my number!" And the living waters moved, rippled, parted, and surrendered up a swaying, breathless, middleaged woman. As the Examiner reached into the wheel for the twentieth time, Fader watched with a queer sense of urgency. It was as if the lot were being cast, as if the alien were withdrawing from the great wheel of Destiny, Man's fate. The Examiner read the number impassively. Behind him the numerals marched inexorably across the top of the board, hushing the crowd as if by some ancient magic spell. And then the last number flashed, and a small section of the human lake exploded. A young man was tossed above it and seemed to ride over its waves up to the platform. The grand winner was Praying John Head. He had a whole ticket -- no tenths or twenties for him. Fader moved forward to shake Head's hand. Head glowered at him, unmoving. Slowly, insultingly, he turned his back and stared over the crowd at the distant tote board. As everyone watched, the numbers flickered, a name was wiped off... fader martin  #I , # , # #-# Head swung back toward Fader, a bitter smile twisting his young lips. He jabbed a finger toward Fader as if it were a rapier. "I'm choosing you," he grated out. "Now son -- " Fader began pacifically. "Don't 'son' me!" Head exclaimed, shaking his shoulders as if Fader had laid his hand on him. "You're challenged. What are you going to do about it?" Fader shrugged helplessly. "Only one thing I can do -- " "Then do it. Name the game." "Craps." "The Golden Nugget, then," Head agreed, nodding almost happily now that the challenge was accepted. "Eight o'clock." Somewhere a woman's voice was calling, "Johnny!" A girl scrambled up on the stage. "Johnny!" It was Jan, the girl from the Desert Inn tobacco counter. Her face was flushed as if she had run a long way. "Johnny!" she demanded. "What are you doing here? We stop. Now I find that you've won ing to end?" "At the Golden Nugget. Tonight. I just chose Fader." "You're mad!" the girl exclaimed angrily. "What have you got to lose? Everything. What have you got to gain? You don't want to be Banker." "It's time somebody took this old bastard to the cleaners," the boy said sullenly. "And I'm the one to do it. The almighty rule of chance! Hah! He's been Banker for twenty-five years. There's only one way he could have stayed there. He's a mechanic. The whole thing's rigged, the whole damned world! Well, there's going to be some changes -- " "If you go through with this, John Head," the girl began, the words frosty and precise -- Fader put up a hand to stop her. "Don't threaten anything rash. It's all right. We do what we must." He nodded at the boy. "Tonight, then!" The boy jerked his head in acknowledgment and stamped away. Fader forgot him immediately. It was the Examiner he was curious about. Glitter Gulch, the greatest concentration of inert gas in the world, cast a neon glow for fifty miles into the desert. At the comer of Fremont and Second Street, in the heart of Glitter Gulch, was the Golden Nugget. Hanging in the air high above the building was a blazing nugget of gold. The floor felt rough under Fader's feet as he followed the Examiner into the building. It was paved with silver dollars, worn down now by countless passing feet until the cartwheels were only polished silver circles in the concrete. There were endless banks of slot machines at the entrance, chattering and chunging continually, and there was even a constant tinkling of coins into pay-off cups. It was Nevada's pride that the state produced more jackpots than jack rabbits. But the players were grim and silent as they fed coins into the bandits with automatic precision. "Is this pleasure or punishment?" the Examiner asked. "Pleasure," Fader replied, smiling wryly. "There's an old saying: You pays your money and you takes your choice." As they passed the Last Chance bar, Fader stopped impulsively. "Double shot of rye, neat," he said to the bartender in the sleeve garters and apron. He turned around with the glass and raised it in mocking salutation to the Examiner's judicial eyes. "To freedom," he said and tossed it down. As he set the glass back on the bar, he pointed out the diorama behind it. It was the desert lashed by a thunderstorm, convincingly realistic. In the distance was a wide, concrete spaceport, swept with rain. The ship took off in the middle of the storm, its rocket exhaust a paler, more permanent lightning. It faded slowly in the night until there was only a pinpoint of flame, and then that, too, was gone. The storm quieted as if it had been beaten. Darkness settled over the diorama. Suddenly the night was broken. A new star was bom into it. It hung motionless for a moment, flaming. Slowly then it began to fall, picked up speed like a spark against a black curtain, and like a spark it died away. "A reminder of the wall?" the Examiner asked calmly. "Entertainment," Fader replied. "People like to watch. If they didn't, the management would take it down. To us it's not a reminder of the wall but a reminder that Man has tried the impossible and failed. But he doesn't give up. He picks up the broken pieces and tries once more, just as the diorama always begins over again." "Courage should have a better goal," the Examiner said. The gaming rooms were crowded. They threaded their way between the tables -- craps, blackjack, poker, faro bank -- the chucka-luck cages, the roulette wheels, the keno boards, and an ancient wheel of fortune, bills fluttering from the outer rim. They heard the immemorial argot: "They miss!... Hit me easy!... And up another five!... The case card is the king of diamonds!... Around and around the little ball goes -- where it stops nobody knows!... Place your bets, ladies and gentlemen..." Around one crap table was a rope fence. Fader ducked under the rope, and held it for the Examiner to follow. The Examiner glanced at the long green table with its white markings and foothigh plastic railing as if the rules of the game were obvious. "It is the privilege of anyone to challenge the person directly above him in financial standing?" "Right," Fader said. There was a glass bowl full of clear, red dice. Fader picked out a pair and tossed them idly against the railing. They turned up a six and a one. "You, as the Banker, can only be challenged by the person directly below you?" "Correct." Fader did tricks with the cubes. The dice appeared and disappeared out of his hands or popped up out of nowhere to balance on fingertips. He moved a hand forward, and the dice appeared to spring out of midair. They spun around on the green felt. A five and a two. "For twenty-five years," the Examiner said, "despite the omniscience of chance, you have beaten off all challengers. That seems like a statistical impossibility." "What everyone overlooks," Fader said wearily, "is the hidden advantage of capital. The man with the biggest bankroll always wins. Chance has to have a little time to establish its impartiality. The first streak of bad luck wipes out the little man. The richest man can outlast everyone." Fader looked at the big clock on the wall. The hands pointed to five minutes after eight. Head's following of young men, the crowd around the table thickened. Only Jan came through the ropes with him. She gave Fader a fleeting, apologetic smile as if to say, He's a fool, I know, but he's mine. It was one more against him, but Fader smiled back. "Gome over here!" Head snarled. Jan went. "Where's the dice?" Fader indicated the glass bowl. "Take your pick." Head rummaged through them until he found a pair he liked. "Let's make it short and sweet. one of us is stony." "You're faded," said Fader. A green-visored croupier, do nated by the house, settled a small computer at the far end of the table. A tote board behind the table lit up with the total assets of Fader and Head and the odds on each. Head rolled the dice, leaning forward, his face tense, his eyes glaring. "Seven!" he demanded. It was a natural. During the next half-hour, Fader learned how Head had earned the name Praying John. The boy exhorted the dice, pleaded with them, shouted at them, prayed to them, threatened and begged them. The dice responded nobly. Head made twenty-five straight passes. As Fader gathered the dice into his large, thick-fingered hands, he realized what he was up against. Almost every person around the table was pulling for Head, betting on him, praying with him that the dice would be kind. Fader glanced back at the board. had dropped to even-money, take your pick. "Billy says he can't do a thing from this distance, and it's too late to get closer. Too much interference, he says . You're on your own." I've been on my own for a long, long time . Fader swung around and whipped out the dice. Seven! He rolled again. A trey! He stared at it for a moment as if he couldn't believe it. He scooped up the dice and rattled them against the railing. "Nine from Carolina!" he said. "And again!" "Up jumped the devil!" Head said gleefully. Fader had sevenedout. When Fader got the dice back apart. Slowly, in spite of everything he could do, Fader lost At three a.m. Praying John sevened-out. He took a deep breath and spun around to study the board. The totals stood at # billion apiece. He swung back. "Let's get this over with. Shoot the roll!" "Everything?" Fader asked quietly. He looked old and gray and tired. It had been a hard day -- the hardest of his life, perhaps. Now this young high-roller goaded him to shoot the works on one roll of the dice. He rubbed his hands back and forth, the dice turning between them. His hands were still steady and sure. "Your dice," the boy said. "Shoot it," Fader said. "You're faded!" It was, without a doubt, the highest roll in the history of craps. Fader whipped the dice against the rail. They bounced off and tumbled backward. When they stopped, there was a five on one die, a four on the other. "Strychnine!" Head shouted, relaxing a little. "Ninety days," Fader muttered. He had swept up the dice instantly. He blew on them and tossed them out again. A one and a three. Then two fives. A six and a four. Two fives. A six and a five. A one and a three. Out of the corner of his eye, he studied John Head. The boy's eyes were glazed with concentration ; sweat beaded his forehead and trickled down his nose to drop in black spots on the green felt. Unexpectedly, Fader rolled the dice. Head started and looked down at the settling dice, his forehead suddenly creased. One die was a three. The other spun on one corner and then toppled. A six. A three and a six. Nine. Fader had made his point. Praying John Head was broke. Incredulous, he stared down at the dice. The Examiner, who had been watching impassively throughout the long game, stepped forward and put his long, thin hand over the dice. "May I?" he asked politely. Fader forgot about Head and studied the Examiner's face as if there were some way to read it, if he only knew how. game still in session in a distant corner and the far-off intermittent rhythm of the slot machines, the room was deserted. Fader sat wearily beside the crap table. He held a die between his fingers by diagonally opposite corners. It rotated in his fingers. The Examiner studied the dice he had picked up. He looked up at Fader. The Recording Angel , Fader thought. "My decision has been made," he said. "Was it ever in doubt?" Fader asked. "I have learned enough about man to know that you wouldn't believe me if I said yes." "You're right," Fader agreed, his lip curling just a little. "The decision is -- no dice. No admittance." The Examiner nodded slowly. "We are not primarily concerned, you see, with the standards or goals of your society. What we are concerned with, is whether that society works. My conclusion is that it does not." "Do you mind telling me how you arrived at it?" "Not at all." The Examiner tossed up the transparent red cubes and caught them. "The very bases of your society are false. Your reason for staying as head of this society for twenty-five years was specious. The only way you could do that was to cheat." "You're wrong, there," Fader said quietly. "It's been necessary only a few times. Each time it has hurt." The very softness of his voice gave evidence of the depth of his emotion. "Each time it was more important that I win." The Examiner's smile was sad. "It always is. I can't accept your statement as truth; you realize that, don't you? And even if it were, you, as the prime representative, stand for the society. A few times is as damning as always." "How did you find out?" Fader asked curiously. The Examiner held out the dice. "They can't throw craps or sevens. One die has two ones, two fives, and two sixes; the other has two threes, two fours, and two fives. Since each number is placed opposite its duplicate and since no one can see around comers, no duplicated numbers are visible. No wonder you won that last bet. The shooter couldn't lose. All he had to do was keep throwing until his number came up again." "Okay," Fader said, shrugging. "They're busters. But would you condemn a world for one pair of educated dice?" "As a symptom of sick society, they are sufficient. Earth is sick, and humanity is sick. The prime representative is a liar and a cheat and a criminal, even in the eyes of his own society." Fader looked up at the saintly face of the Examiner. More than ever he looked like Michael, the avenging angel. "We found you tom and bewildered, groping wildly for the stars before you had even solved the simple problems of social living and the distribution of food. We gave you power and a means of using it, and you let it lead you into decay instead of liberation. Instead of freeing yourself from environment, you immediately set to fashioning a new, falser environment." "Sick," Fader murmured. "Sick," the Examiner repeated. "Sick inside where it is worst. Your society has grown all lopsided. There is such a thing as chance. But what is significant is how we react to chance. We can try to dominate it -- and that becomes skill and science. Or we can accept it as hopelessly beyond control ; we can court it -- and we have magic and animism. "Why do men gamble? It is their surrender to the omnipotence of chance. It strips the relationship of man to his fate down to stark simplicity. 'Am I lucky or unlucky?' asks the gambler. The dice answer. And the answer is destruction. "The animistic mind pleads with fate; the scientific mind tries to insure that fate will be favorable by forcing it to be favorable. As biological experiments, only the scientific response has furthered human progress. As an evolutionary experiment, only scientism has proved workable, because it alone increases our capacity to survive. "As a valid experiment by beings, in their incessant quest to increase their power, gambling must be rejected as a mutation that has failed. The gambler's question to Destiny, the ultimate father surrogate, 'Am I favored?' not only denies that Fate can be dominated, but it rejects the very thought ways that lead to an increase in the domination of fate." "Are you finished?" Fader asked, and his face seemed gray with fatigue. "I can only add," the Examiner said gently, "that I hope Mankind turns away from this false road and finds itself back on its way to fulfillment and the stars." "Very noble," Fader said. "Very moral. You come here with your angel face and your spotless hands, and you say, 'Stop, my friends! Gome no farther until you are pure, like us! And we will give you gifts so that you may put all your efforts into becoming pure of heart. # Nuts! "Your hands aren't clean! They're whited over like sepulchers. Why did you object to our entering your saintly society? Because we were too struggling, too violent, too raw, too competitive. And you've stopped struggling, except to keep what you have. Sure we're cheaters, sometimes, and mean, sometimes, and crude, often. The wonder is that we're ever anything else, and we are. "But you didn't want us among you. Instead you supplied us with power and the means to use it. Why? Was it out of a spirit of sweet charity? Ah, no! Was it even a conscience-money bribe? No, sir! It was a Greek gift, and we would have been wise to inspect it closely to see what secret things were hidden inside. Because these gifts made unnecessary our unrelenting struggle against environment -- that struggle which took us all the way into space before you chanced upon us." Fader was on his feet looking up into the Examiner's face, his voice loud and angry. "What was the motive behind that gift? It was intended to lead to that very degeneration and decay you come now to complain of. "If this is what you wanted, it seems that you have succeeded." The Examiner took a deep breath, but his expression didn't change. "It saddens us to be misunderstood," he said. "But not half as much," Fader taunted, "as to let anyone among you who might not respect your rules. I'll tell you what decay is. It's when the rules become so crystallized that they can't be broken." The Examiner spread his hands helplessly. "There is nothing I can say." "You might answer this," Fader said bitterly. "There must be other races in the same position as humanity. How many of them have passed their entrance exams?" The Examiner studied Fader silently. "I'll answer it myself," Fader said slowly. "The answer is 'none.' There was never a chance, you see, unless we made ourselves over into your image, and that we couldn't do even if we wanted to. We wouldn't play. The game was obviously rigged against us. And there is something rotten about the demands that we sit in the game." "I will be back," the Examiner said, turning away, "in fifty years." "Never mind," Fader yelled after him. "Maybe we'll come out to you." Out of the darkness behind him came a single, violent word : "Traitor!" Fader turned wearily. "Who's that?" It was Praying John Head, his face twisted into a scowl. Behind him was Jan, clinging to his hand. Her eyes searched Fader's face. "You didn't even try to impress him," Head said bitterly. "You tried to make him mad. Why don't you want the wall tom down? I can't figure you. For money you can't ever use you throw away Man's one chance to reach the stars." "I didn't think you'd cheat," said the girl wistfully. "Then you noticed it, too. These old hands must be getting stiff." "I asked Johnny to come back to talk to you before he made a public protest. I told him you had to have a reason. You do, don't you?" "Yes." "Did it concern the Examiner?" "Partly." "Then you did want him to decide against Earth!" Head exploded. "That's right," Fader said. "Traitor!" Head repeated. "Let me explain it," Fader said, shrugging, "and then you can decide whether the word fits. It doesn't matter now, because we have fifty years before the Examiner returns. If we haven't bypassed the wall by then, we never will." "Bypassed?" Jan asked. "How?" "I'll get to that," Fader said. "You accused me of cheating. I presume you spotted the busters that the Examiner saw. But did you see these?" He held up one die between his fingers again and let it rotate. "Loaded!" the boy exclaimed. "And even with these I couldn't win," Fader said ruefully. "I'd say that there was a rather powerful force working against me." "But that's -- there's nothing wrong with that," Head protested. "So you say. How many straight passes can you throw?" "Well, I can throw 'em all night, but I thought -- " "Exactly," Fader said. "You're loaded with PK. You can control the dice with your mind better than I can hope to do with my hands. They're both cheating. You're skillful in one way; I'm skillful in another. We both try to evade chance results. Man is a cheater. He always has been. He always will be. "What happened when our world was quarantined? We turned to gambling. Why? That was the answer I didn't want the Examiner to find. But I couldn't hide it from him. All I could do was to keep shuffling the little pea under the walnut shells and hope that he couldn't follow. Shell game." "But what was the pea?" Jan asked. "The real function of our society. Every society rewards a specific type and tries to breed more of them : philosophers, soldiers, knights, authors, explorers, scientists, inventors, businessmen. , . Our society happens to reward the best gambler." "You?" Head asked bitterly. Fader laughed easily. "No, not me. Look at it this way! When humanity needs a certain quality, it can't breed it as the race horse was bred for speed. There's no one to breed him, and Mankind is forever a wild animal, always unspecialized. So what happens? We depend on evolution. "When environment made muscles valuable, men had muscles. When brains were rewarded, men developed brains. When these become relatively worthless, natural selection ceases to operate in their favor. They degenerate. If a Neanderthal man should catch me alone, he could tear me apart -- but give me a little time to build weapons and traps, and he wouldn't have a chance. "Then the aliens came, and both muscles and brains became worthless. The aliens were obviously so superior to ils that we could never hope to catch up. The solution had to be one that involved neither muscles nor brains. "Some men defy Nature. They find purpose in the universe, intelligence behind Creation, guidance in the selections of evolution. But if there is any purpose, any intelligence, any guidance -- it seems to me that it lies inside the great, unconscious beast that is humanity. "That collective, amorphous thing is stubborn and hard-headed. It won't die easy. If it can't survive one way, it will survive another. It will run fast when running fast will save it, grow muscles when muscles are necessary, develop brains when brains are vital. "In the face of this new challenge, there developed -- not a new talent, but a new society. Was it by chance? Perhaps. But it's significant that this society selected the one talent that could save humanity. "PK. Psychokinesis. From the mental control of matter it's a small step to teleportation -- not to mention the possibilities of telepathy, extrasensory perception, clairvoyance, and the direct control of destiny." Jan turned excitedly to the boy beside her. "Don't you understand, Johnny? You're one of the people who will help put Man out among the stars." "You're the one-eyed jack," Fader said, "the wild card in the deck. And you, too, Jan. You're talented, and your children will be more talented. It always works that way. Money marries money. Intelligence marries intelligence." Head was still sullen. "I don't see why we had to do it the hard way." "That's the way man is," Fader said simply. "He insists on doing things his own way or not at all -- because he wants to, not because he's permitted. When we go into space -- and we will -- it'll be on our own terms, not on the terms of the Galactic Union. We'll go because no one can stop us. And we'll stay there because no one can make us go back! "The aliens wanted to make us over into images of themselves. That's a perennial impossibility -- as any woman in love must recognize." Fader glanced at Jan and smiled. "And, like a woman in love, if they want us they'll have to take us as we are. Or, for that matter, if they don't want us." silent. Only the single light cast a cone of brightness over the green crap table. "That's the other reason you had to lose," Fader said softly. "It isn't good for struggling young men to come into money. A hungry fighter is the best fighter." "Then, even if the Examiner had wanted to," Jan said, "you didn't want him to pass Earth. The reason for developing our special talents would have vanished, and we'd have come in as a hopelessly junior partner forever." "True," Fader said. "Meanwhile I've had to try to suppress scientism. Scientism is always Man's reaction to chance. That's his eternal struggle -- to reduce the role of chance and increase the effect of skill. He cheats. In one form it's science; in another it's psi, the attempt to control chance directly, a mutation that is just coming to flower . # Head began hesitantly, "It sounds like we're drawing to an inside straight , # Head objected. "So far , # Fader said, "we've put a man on the moon -- # The boy smiled luminescently. It was like the drawing of a dark curtain from a window facing the sun. "That's beyond the barrier!" Fader nodded. "Soon we'll be able to put a man anywhere in the galaxy. Then let the Galactic Union reckon with Earth. Let them come to terms with us ! # "What are we waiting for ? # Johnny demanded. "There's work to be done." Fader sighed wearily as if he had just realized that he was very old and very tired. He sank back onto the stool. "The Examiner's getting into his ship . Oh, man , am I tired! This long-distance telepathy should be on union hours. Til be burnt out for a month" Thanks , Louis . You've done a good job. One recruit, coming up. "Examiner just took off in a blaze of nothing. Bon voyage, and all that!" The voice in Fader's head began singing Aloha off-key. Fader grated his teeth and swore he'd have the surgeons open up his right mastoid and put a cut-off switch on the little receiver. Shut up! he thought savagely at the distant telepath. I've got enough head noise of my own! "You go, son," he said to Johnny. "My work is here." "What do you mean?" Jan asked. Her voice was alarmed. "The new worlds are for the young," said Fader, looking a little like Moses, who led his people to the promised land but could not enter himself. "I've got no psi. I'm just a tinhorn gambler without talent who has stayed where he is because of an encyclopedic memory, some manual dexterity -- and a little outside help. I'm just a shill." "A shill?" Head echoed. "That's what I am. A shill!" Slowly a smile rose across the tired crags of his face. "But if a man has to be a shill, at least it's something to be shill to the whole wide universe."    fessor who discovers a new source of electrical energy that anyone can bake -- like a cake -- in his own oven! What happens, as a result, to the great utilities, oil and coal industries, automotive industries, etc. -- in fact, to the whole world economy -- is a story you don't want to miss! Also in this issue is other top-flight science ficI  Captain Jorl thought Arcturus IV was the answer to all he had ever wanted. And it was. But there was also a twist... How can there be an ideal where everything is perfection? Illustrated by Paul Orban waiting in his fore-waist him. bridge; he looked again through its He turned his big body from the heavy, slotted quartz windows and curving windows, quickly calcunow he could see them coming. He lated the time it would take the could make out the toy-like siljeep to reach the flaring stern of houette of their jeep, emerging in the White Whale, figured how reckless, bounding leaps from the many minutes it would take the edge of the cultivated forest. Now pneumatic lift to whisk them three they were racing at full tilt across hundred and twelve feet up to the the hard-packed yellow sand of the fore-waist, and snatched open the desert in a bee-line for the ship door of his liquor cabinet, that had landed them here a scant Sam Garruthers would be the three weeks ago. first one to say it. Captain Nicholas Joel watched Thin, quiet Sam, who'd been in them, their excitement a visible space as ship's surgeon and psything as they pounded up clouds of chiatrist for as long as Joel himself, saffron behind them, and knew It had been twenty-two years since without activating his personal they'd left the Academy together, communicator what they'd have to Sam had taken his specialty traintell him. ing in space medicine, while he, Joel, had let himself get sucked into qualifying as pilot. Twelve years of the Academy. And twenty-two more being ordered around the freezing hell of God's black universe like a toy on a string. And for all of it, Sam still had that look in his dark, brooding eyes -- the look that had been glazed with shock, but which had still not surrendered, the day they told Sam he wasn't going to make pilot. The look would still be there four minutes and thirty seconds from now when he led the others into the fore-waist bridge to holler "We've hit it again!" It would always be. Joel tilted the liquor bottle and one big, clumsy-looking hand poured steadily into the thick glassite flagon he held in the other. He downed it in a gulp. Hit it again hell! An behind Sam there would be the first officer, Dobermann. Little, wiry German who knew more about languages and semantics than the guy who'd invented them, and the best astro-navigator you could find in this or any other galaxy. Sure, they always gave Nicholas Joel nothing but the best. That was part of it. Part and parcel of the whole damn conspiracy. Dobermann wouldn't say anything when he came in. But there'd be a thorough-going, sucessful, mission-accomplished look on his handsome face. Dobermann never missed. And Southard... Still a kid, still wet behind the ears, but a hell of a promising astrophysicist, backed up with plenty of biochemistry and geophysics. It was still a big, romantic adventure to Southard, and he wore the single red, gleaming stripe of ship's second officer on his broad young shoulders as though it was the thick gold circle of a full captaincy. Joel filled the flagon and emptied it a second time. He went back to the windows, the liquor bottle and flagon still in his hands. To most men, he supposed, the panorama that spread for miles from the stem of the up-ended White Whale would be a thing of sheer beauty. It would be hard for them to believe that there existed other planets far beyond the rim of their own hostile Solar System which could equal or exceed the soft beauty of the oasis they called Earth. But there it was -- gentlyrolling, golden desert beneath a temperate, dark-gold sun, flanked at one gently curving edge by a forest that looked as though it had been scientifically planned and landscaped for beauty. It was a big forest that covered a full third of the planet, and at its opposite edge it gave way to twelve thousand miles of unblemished shoreline which descended into gleaming, azure ocean. And in the forest, on the ocean, even on the wide expanse of desert, there were people. Intelligent, strong, peaceful, quiet people, who might have been natives of Earth's Pacific islands of three centuries ago, save that their flesh was lighter in tone; their sun was not as young as Sol. Farmers, mostly, Carruthers had reported. Some merchants, some travelers and explorers, even some men of a very young science, but, mostly, farmers... it was the way they lived. A good way, Joel thought. A good way, in a good place. He looked through the fore-waist bridge windows, and what he saw was beautiful. But he filled the flagon again. A buzzer sounded softly from the compact secondary control console which banked a full third of the bridge's fore bulkhead, and deliberately, Joel let it buzz a second and a third time before he fingered the stud that slid the small metal door open behind him. He turned as they came through it. Fatigue and sweat lined Sam's thin face; Dobermann was audibly out of breath. Southard had to duck slightly to get into the room, but when he straightened he seemed as fresh as when the party had left the ship seventeen days before. Joel returned their salute with the full flagon still in his left hand, and then beat Carruthers to the punch. "All right, so we've hit it one more time! Bully for us -- " He drained the flagon, reached for the bottle. Without Carruthers, there would have been an awkward silence. But after twentytwo years, Sam knew his man. "Ahh, you've shown us more than this, Skipper. I suppose it is a little better than our prelim reports indicate, if you want to get technical. The people want to co-operate. They're intelligent, healthy, and friendly and they realize fully what we're trying to do. They want to help us, and say we're welcome to all the mneurium-# we want. 'Course there's only a few hundred pure megatons of it lying around, but, if you want to get technical -- " "Go to hell," Joel said, and poured his flagon half full. He felt a little better, but it would take more than a half-bottle of Martian Colony Bond and Sam's wise answers to change things. "Go right straight to hell!" He sniffed at the Bond. "So the long arm of Superior Civilization has reached out its clanking claws again to make the Universe a Better Place to Live in, has it? God help 'em if they believed all the hog-wash you fed 'em, Sam." The thin face sobered. "I spoke to them in good faith, Nicholas, and they did believe me. The fact is, they -- " "All right, I get your point! Got my mind made up, so don't start confusing me with facts." He transfixed the three of them with a restless look; a look they had grown used to. It was a gaze that matched the rest of him; the unruly, untrimmed black hair, the short, thick beard which was unneeded on a chin and jaw as big and square as Joel's, the careless, unmilitary carriage of his thick shoulders and blocky body, the blood-shot metalblue eyes themselves. But during the split-second the gaze was upon them, they knew pages were flipping in Joel's massive head. Pages of regulations, procedures, memorized down to the last foot-note. "Let's go in order with your reports," Joel snapped. Southard stepped forward. "Constellation Bootis, Arcturus, planet IV. Preliminary analysis of oresamples indicate rich lodes of mneurium-#, relatively close to the surface, and in unprecedentedly great number. Purity is unbelievably high, with -- # "All right, Southard, good report. Dobermann." "Minimum of linguistic difficulty, coupled with a surprisingly high aptitude on the natives' part for language learning. In the seventeen days I had with them, I'm almost certain those with whom I worked learned at least half as much English as I did of their tongue," the German said. He added, simply, as though the seventeen days of exhausting gesticulating, diagramming, systematizing, learning, recording, had never existed, "There will be no language difficulty, sir." "Good. Now you, Sam, and no shmaltz!" "Healthy people, no cancer, no TB, no coronary troubles -- " "The mneurium-#, I know. Go jj on. "Average IQ in the #'s -- and there's something for us to keep in mind in spite of our big technological and scientific jump on them. They're still working with wood, iron and crude steel, but they won't be for long. Agrarian civilization so far; they've got a representative type of government -- democracy, and a damn good one, and they're psychologically suited for just what they've evolved along that line. They actually practice what they preach, from the individual status right on up through the framework of their government. Open, honest, sincere -- they have to be, because of the high degree of uniformity of IQ, and because -- now get this -- they want to be. It's the way their minds are built, and -- " "All right, so if I believe you, we won't be fighting to get what we terms, that it?" "Yes, skipper. Access to all scientific data with which we can supply them now, and as much more later as they think they'll require, in exchange for reasonable mining rights." "Reasonable?" Joel thundered. He slammed the heavy bottle down on the old-fashioned mahogany desk at his elbow. "Was that in the contract you made with them? How do you know what the hell they mean by reasonable?" "Sir, if I may -- " "All right, Dobermann, go ahead and enlighten me." "I worked a number of hours with them on that point, to make certain there would be no errors in the semantics involved. They have learned, despite their lack of scientific medical knowledge, that as long as there is mneurium-# around, they don't get sick. They trust us to leave enough to insure their own well-being." "That's crazy," Joel shot back at his first officer. "How in God's name can they know about mneurium-# and how to use it when we've only known about it and have been scratching the universe for it for less than thirty years? That's goddam nonsense -- " He refilled the flagon, spilled a little of the potent liquor on his beard as he downed it. "No, Nicholas," Sam said. "You're the bug on history around here. Think a minute." Joel drew a sleeve across his mouth, and pages flipped in his head again. Yes, Sam was right. Back as far as the twentieth century, there had been isolated tribes in South America which had been found free of the diseases that had plagued their more civilized neighbors of the north, arid it had taken the medical experts years to find out exactly why. Invariably, the answer had been usage of the most promising materials provided by nature which were closest at hand. A tribe stumbled onto something, used it -- experimentally at first, then wastefully, but finally, with a thousand years' practice, pretty efficiently. And it had nothing to do with the fact that they still went around with spears and animal-hide shields... "All right, I get your point, Sam," Joel said. Sam quit talking, and for a moment there was silence in the limited confines of the forewaist bridge. Then Joel put the bottle and the flagon down on the desk, turned his back to it and faced them. "From the way you boys talk this thing up, it all must be just jim-dandy. Maybe better than on that rock back in Aldeberan, or even better than we did in Altair, or Fomalhaut, or Procyon Seven, or any of the rest of 'em..." He paused again, watched their faces. They remembered -- all except Southard, who hadn't been with them on any of the old strikes. But his youthful enthusiasm just about made up for the fierce pride that shone in the eyes of the others. B ack home, the white Whale, of all of Earth's great fleet of Explorer-class ships, had hung up the most enviable record. She had brought back rare elements known to men but unobtainable by them within the confines of their own tiny Solar System, or rare life-forms, impossible to study effectively in their native habitats, or precious new data which were beyond the reach of the astronomer's observatory. It meant progress. It meant a living force in the universe, a force of learning and of knowing, which would tolerate no barrier, which would broach neither defeat nor ultimate conclusion. In short, it meant Man. Nicholas Joel knew it, and he still hated space. Since that first indoctrination blast out to the moon and back when he'd been a plebe -- since that day that he'd realized for the first time how big it was. And how big men ought to be, but weren't. Big muscles, but little minds... He still wondered just how the hell they'd sucked him in. They'd hit him somewhere inside, in a place he'd forgotten to guard -- his instructors, his Commandant, the Secretary of Science himself. They'd sweet-talked him into staying those twelve years. Young man, they had told him, yours is a body and a brain with an adaptability to space exploration the like of which has never been duplicated in our records. You hate to fly, yet you are the best cadet pilot ever to enter the Academy. You dislike technical and scientific study, yet your grades in this field are the highest on record. You despise the regimen of the military necessary to survival in Space, yet, unaccountably, your cadet commands have been the most efficient and best handled of any in our knowledge. Young man, they had said, here's the works on a silver platter -- be a pilot -- you owe it to yourself, to the world, to humanity! Say you'll take our ships where no other man would dare, and you can write your own ticket for the rest of your life! But you simply have to be a Pilot , young man... And he remembered how it had been with Sam, who would have moved the Earth with arms and legs tied behind him to have qualified. Sam, who had hungered for it, but had taken a lesser assignment cheerfully, just so, at least, he could be a part of some other pilot's team in space. Sam, who had that look in his eyes. But since his assignment to the White Whale fifteen years ago, there had never been a sign -- not the slightest, that Joel had been able to detect, that he was doing anything but what he most wanted. That took guts, and guts. Joel understood. And so now they'd hit it again. Mneurium-#, the "wonder-element" that science had discovered would put a host of Earth's most dreaded diseases to rout, but which it had not been able to obtain or synthesize despite years of exhaustive effort. Captain Joel, they had told him, the radio-astronomers say there could be mneurium-# somewhere out in Bootis. Get some. And in spite of them and their damned passion for onward-andupward, if they insisted he pilot space to bring them back one new gew-gaw after another to play with, then he'd bring them back gewgaws until they choked! Choked! And the world he wanted -- the world he'd always wanted, would just have to be for somebody else. Then he looked at their faces, and they were waiting. "All right, I get your point! Don't just stand there -- Southard, get your 'copters going! I want a fully plotted area of operation for the next six months, including jump-off point as of tomorrow at # hours, and on this desk by # tonight! Dobermann, you won't have anything to do for awhile, so you can get Southard's servodrillers going for him ; get 'em all out, form 'em on the port flank in details of five. I want to see it by #. Sam, has Dobermann given you any practice in their lingo? Good -- all right, it's time I met 'em -- you'll take me to their capital city or wherever it is their top people are and we'll get things down in black and white. I'll be ready for you in twenty minutes. Any questions?" There weren't. Joel's three officers turned and left, each scrambling to his new assignment, glad to actually get started before something happened to upset the unexpected simplicity of the whole thing. There'd never been a mission that had come off as smoothly as this one was beginning. It promised to make them feel guilty to draw their pay checks for it. For once, it looked as though Joel was going to get what he came after without having to fight down to raw nerve and bone to get it. Good. The Captain had an easy one coming. When they'd gone, Joel dropped his great frame into the ancient chair behind his big desk and got to work with the ship's intercom, flipping it to main circuit. He did ten minutes' talking in six, and Phase One was organized, down to the last ship's guard, down to the last assistant servomech. Then he had fourteen minutes until Carruthers was due, ready to drive him to meet these people in their cultivated forest. So for every one of the fourteen minutes, Captain Nicholas Joel leaned back in the chair, shut his eyes tight, and filled in a little more of the world he wanted. packed dirt, but level, and wide. Occasionally, as Sam Carruthers drove, they would pass through a hamlet, or go by small knots of men and women in carriages and wagons drawn by striped animals resembling Earth's African zebra. The farms were small but numerous, and none, Joel noted, had been entirely cleared; the trees had been thinned, and they were of a far more slender variety than grew elsewhere, but they had not been eliminated. It set well with him. Joel had always liked trees, and he had a feeling he was going to like other people who did to such an obvious . extent. Buildings, he noted, were almost entirely of wood; structures very similar to those he remembered having seen in a history text dealing with the western United States in the nineteenth century. A few were of stone, some of small, brick cubes; all were pleasing enough to the eye. And the people themselves were -- The people looked up as the jeep roared past; looked up from their work in the fields, looked out from their wagons and carriages, looked from their saddled mounts at the roadside. But there was no fear in their glances, only the quick puzzlement of inquiring intelligence. They were straight, well-bodied people, clothed simply in colorful garments which Joel assumed were made of cloth; the men were tall and broad and he could mentally picture the powerful muscles that rippled beneath their shirts. And the women -- The women were the most graceful creatures he had ever seen, even those who were obviously no longer young; they were less fully clad than their men, and Captain Nicholas Joel liked that. He liked it because it was honest. Where there was something beautiful, why in the name of anything holy or otherwise should it be covered up? That was the trouble with Earth and her people. There were too few things of real beauty, and when they did exist, humans seemed to have a psychotic compulsion for either ignoring them or hiding them completely. And those who did hesitate for a stolen moment's admiration were hurriedly hollered back to their jobs. "You're surprised that they're not cluttering up the roads, trying to get a closer look at us?" Sam was hollering over the howl of the warm, oxygen-rich atmosphere. "Good discipline," Joel grunted, still occupied with his own thoughts. "Well, you're partly right. But more than that, we haven't stopped to look at them! It's sort of a halfcourtesy, half-pride they have. They won't slow a stranger down if he doesn't slow them down, figuring that if he wanted to, he would; the prerogative is his. And, if he's not that interested, then neither are they!" "You're sure some expedition didn't get here before we did?" Joel asked. "I mean -- hell, they could be from Earth -- " "Ever hear of an Earthman with two hearts, skipper? But physically that's about the only difference I could find. Psychologically -- " The Space surgeon hesitated. "Psychologically what?" "Take too long to explain -- we're coming into the capital city you were talking about. And besides -- " he grinned in a sidelong glance at Joel, "you might even have the brains to figure it out all by yourself." "Go to hell!" In a moment Carruthers was busy with the jeep, tooling it through narrowing streets, slowing it to almost a walk as men and women hastened out of their way, crowded the board sidewalks to allow them to pass unhampered. The buildings were much like those he had seen in the rural districts; a little larger, a bit taller, but none more than fifty feet in height. Neatly painted, their thin glass windows bright and clean, they did not look like part of a city at all, Joel reflected, much less part of a capital city. And everything was so quiet. Maybe too quiet. He felt a little chill at the base of his spine, but kept looking straight ahead. "You're sure, Sam, about leaving my guns back at the ship?" Carruthers just grinned again. And then they turned abruptly, and hauled up in front of a long, low building of flagstone. "This is it," the surgeon said. "No reporters, no photographers, no autograph seekers, no brass band or politicians. But you're on. Skipper." naked without his guns, and he felt off-balance and out of place. Standing in the sedate, oval-shaped council-chamber with these peaceful-looking people confronting him, he felt clumsy in his heavy black leatheroid uniform, big, highlypolished black boots. He felt as if he looked like what he'd been forced to be on other occasions, facing forms of life so alien that no difference counted -- like a man-atarms, like a conqueror. Suddenly, he was glad Sam had made him leave his guns back at the ship. "Nicholas Joel, United Americas Intergalactic Exploration Fleet, of the Ship White Whale, commanding!" Carruthers was introducing him in English, and he wished that Sam would have had the good sense to have said "This is Captain Joel" and let it go at that. Didn't the grinning idiot know it must have been an awful pill for these people to swallow all at once? That there were, to begin with, such things as other planets and other galaxies -- and that there were, even more incredibly, other creatures that lived on them. And, whether they cared to believe it or not, some of these creatures had just landed among them, and there was nothing they could do about it! Sam was picking his way along now in their speech, and then at an obvious gesture, Joel knew he was being introduced to their top man. Sam waved an arm toward the tallest of the twelve-man group, who arose from the opposite side of a polished wooden table, and bowed gently from the waist. "His Excellency and Prime Govemor, K'hall-ik'hall." Joel hesitated, then returned the bow. He had never bowed in his life, but a salute to somebody dressed in civilian clothes seemed crazy. "Sam, you mean he's Prime Governor of -- " "The whole planet." "Am I always supposed to say his name twice?" "That is his name. That's the way they do it. Now shut up, Skipper, and let me do the talking. I'm going to go through the whole works again with 'em. Then we sign. Then you get a tour of the town so the people can be introduced to you officially. But don't go making any speeches! Behave, and we're in business." "You go to -- " But Sam had already started talking in the liquid-sounding language, and Joel decided it was better for him to keep his own mouth shut and be thought stupid than open it and remove all doubt. Damn it, the whole thing was making him feel just the way he had twenty years ago, when he landed his first explorer on an alien world! It had been that long, and how many hundred meetings with alien life-forms since then, under how many fantastic circumstances, on how many God-forsaken, unworldly places? By now he was supposed to know the score. By now he was supposed to have seen everything. By now he knew the book inside and out, and had the ability to take charge no matter where in the black universe they sent him. Nicholas Joel, United Americas Intergalactic Exploration Fleet, of the Ship White Whale , commanding... But nobody was challenging his right to have what he'd come for! No trouble , that was the hell of it, and -- and there was nothing to hate. For a miserable moment, Captain Nicholas Joel stood becalmed, with not so much as a breeze in his sagging sails. But he would not let them know it. He looked levelly into the eyes of each of the twelve, but even that did little to make him feel more at ease. For he saw wisdom in the lined, kindly faces. He saw a humility and sincerity that matched the simple clothing they wore. He saw a kindness that men talked about in books and sometimes felt in their hearts, but seldom held openly in their faces for the world to see. These men were handsome in their physical stature, but they could have been little men three feet high, and they would have been the biggest that Joel had ever seen. Now they were talking in subdued tones to Sam, and then one produced a document, and handed Sam a slender writing stylus. "Hey Sam -- " The hoarseness of his voice unnerved him, but Joel plowed ahead. "Hadn't you oughtta read that thing?" "It's already been read, Skipper. By Dobermann. It took him three days to draw it up -- he did most of the writing himself. It's already been electrostated ; we've got ten copies of our own. Now keep your mouth shut or they'll think we don't trust them. You sign first, because you're the guest. Then K'hall-i-k'hall, and it's all over." Sam's thin face had a seriousness in it that Joel knew he did not dare question. The trouble is, the thought stung him, you doubt, because you were born and raised on Earth . Sam knows that. And he knows how these people think. And he says sign... So sign, you big boob . Silently, Joel took the stylus from Sam, bent quickly over the papyrus-like document, and put his name, rank and ship where Sam pointed. Then he gave the stylus to Sam, who returned it to K'hall-ik'hall. And in another instant, all the mneurium-# the White Whale could lift clear was theirs for the taking. Joel could converse in the language of his hosts as fluently as either Dobermann or Carruthers, and within a month he had been able to finish a limited round of visits to a full dozen of the smaller cities and towns. These people had respected his wish that he be allowed to roam their streets and public buildings without official escort, and with an ever-quickening fading of his self-consciousness, he did. He did, more and more frequently. And from the vantage point of their peacefully winding roads or their quaint little shops where they dispensed a fluid amazingly similar to Martian Colony Bond, Joel could hate the White Whale from a comfortable distance, and with a healthy, untiring diligence. This he also did, more and more frequently. It was during one of these selfassigned off-duty periods, alone in his personal jeep, that his most recent pint of Bond decided to harass him, and he discovered almost too late that he had ignored a turn of the dirt roadway. He skidded wickedly, and frightened one of the zebra-like animals drawing a vehicle much resembling a fourwheeled surrey. The animal let go with a terrified whinny, and with a sickening splintering noise, the dhennah went plunging off the road into the deep drainage ditch at its edge. There was also another sound, and Joel practically stood the jeep on its nose slewing it to a stop. By the time he was out and running back, the frightened animal had gotten itself out of the ditch and was working frantically to bring the dhennah out after it. But the vehicle was canted at a crazy angle, and it was obvious to Joel that at least one of its starboard wheels was broken, and that it would take more than one kaelli to haul it out. None of this, he reflected as he ran, was going to help diplomatic relations a bit. And he was no Dobermann. But it was none of these things that worried him at the moment. She was screaming bloody murder, and still was hard at it when he jumped into the ditch. She stopped when he clambered up on the steeply tilted narrow seat to which she clung. There was suddenly not a sound from her as his big hands circled her waist and gently lifted her to the ground. Then he discovered that his voice was stuck. Dammit, an explorer captain for over fifteen years, and he didn't know what to say when he banged up some farm girl's dhennah! "I -- ah, am terribly sorry. It will be replaced, of course. Very stupid and clumsy of me. I -- ah, you hurt?" Rather smooth, at that! She smiled. Slender lips, goldencolored eyes, delicately contoured face -- all seemed to smile together. A breeze ruffled her tawny mass of shoulder-length hair, and Nicholas Joel just stood there. "You are forgiven, the dhennah was not a costly one. I know how difficult it must be for you to guide those machines of yours at such terrible speeds... but of course the speeds are necessary to you in your work. Thank you for helping me." Joel reassured himself that if only the conversation were in his mother tongue, he would of course not feel so ridiculously at a loss for words. After all, this young female was only an -- an alien being. "It was my pleasure, of course," Joel said. He thought perhaps if he could manage a smile -- "I am gratified that you accept my clumsiness with such excellent grace. As intruders to begin with, my men and I -- " "Intruders, sir?" She had taken a few steps away from him to stroke the neck of the kaelli and quiet it, but she was still looking at him. "Why intruders? At one time, all the people of this world were not of one great community as they are now, surely you know that. But when one group travelled and visited another, no one thought of it as an intrusion." She laughed. "Are we all not one under the sun?" "But they were of your own kind, from elsewhere on your own planet -- " "A visitor is a visitor," she said, as though suddenly puzzled. "What can it matter where he is from?" Joel started to reply, but checked himself. Of course these people had no way of knowing. Of course they were still under the impression that intelligent life, wherever it might exist, would necessarily be in their own form. The fact that it might not be had never occurred to them! Then that was why they had not feared the White Whale and her crew. It was something Carruthers had probably perceived at once, something he could no doubt explain. But now Joel was seeing it first-hand for himself. Psychologically, this girl and her people were incapable of conceiving a way of life based on different reasons for living than their own, with different motives, different -- ambitions. Just, he reflected, as his own people were psychologically incapable of greeting a stranger without subconscious suspicion. To these people, a visitor was -- a visitor, and therefore a friend! He wondered how many others beside himself, Carruthers and Dobermann knew. "Perhaps it does not matter at all," Joel said, and he was surprised at the gentleness in his voice. He had not felt it that way in his throat for a long time. Not for a terribly long time. "Now, if you'll let me help you with that harness, we'll free your kaelli , and see what can be done about getting you on toward your destination!" Joel's big fingers started fumbling with the thick leather thongs of the kaelli's rig. The harness felt strange and confusing to hands disciplined to the limiting exactnesses of servocircuits and pressure-control studs, and the complexity of their co-ordination was thrown into confusion by sheer simplicity. The girl laughed as she watched his efforts, then guided his hands with her own, and Joel felt a strange warmth mounting in his neck. And when the kaelli was at last freed, he said, "Now then, where can I take you? I owe you something more than just the replacement of your dhennah. I shall drive slowly so that the kaelli can follow, and you can see for yourself what it is like to ride in one of our machines!" "But -- they go like the wind!" "Indeed they do!" Joel laughed, unaccountably pleased with her excitement. "Yes, ma'm, just like the wind!" Quite unexpectedly, she reached for his hand, and Joel clasped hers with a quickness he had not intended. But then he was leading her to the jeep, helping her into it. He started the powerful turbine engine, chuckled aloud at her quick gasp, then joined in her laughter. "Just like the wind!" he cried and they were off. The day was clear and bright and to Joel the air itself seemed to come alive with a heady excitement. This was something, it told him. This was not to hate. This was not to drink in bitterness. This was not to be alone. the fore-waist bridge. There was a full, untouched flagon on the mahogany desk, and the bottle of Martian Colony Bond stood, tightly corked, beside it. He sat down, hating the feel of the chair of command beneath his big body. What he was thinking was wrong, of course. But no man could be two men; a man could not split himself down the middle and say: this is your life here, this is your life there , for it is unthinkable that a man be prisoner of one life only -- No, a man could not do that ; a man had only one life. Wrong, was it? And who, any more a man than himself, could dare to be judge? He would call Carruthers ; he would explain, and Carruthers would inform the rest. As for Command -- A buzzer roared on the desk in front of him. It was the dispatch unit communicator -- it would be Southard. A huge forefinger hit the toggle almost hard enough to wrench it from its socket "Command!" Joel grated into the sensitive pick-up. "Proceed with your message." He reached for the flagon, drained it, filled it again. "Lieutenant Southard calls Command from Servogroup #." The youngster's voice sounded tight, excited. Now what the hell -- "Request task mission. Request task mission. Position -- " Joel quickly jacked in the ship's armory circuit. An alarm klaxon would be electrifying the entire complement of combat personnel stationed in that quarter of the ship even as armory communications was taking down the co-ordinates Southard was dictating. And within one minute and forty-five seconds after that, combat units would be assembling in machine-like precision, deploying into advance order at the ship's stern. And as the two huge sections between the White Whale's slender atmosphere fins opened like hungry steel mouths, disgorging flat, thick-bodied machines with their grim burdens of armed men and destroyer-artillery. Ship's Guard would be taking up defense positions, manning gun stations which commanded an energy potential sufficient to destroy a minor planet in a single, searing second of bluewhite heat. All this was automatic. A dispatch-unit request for task mission was an order, momentarily transcending even Command authority. It worked that way because the men who travelled space had learned that with the first foot they rose off the surface of Earth, theirs was no longer the privilege of living, but the task of survival. Space was emergency. And if you regarded it otherwise, it would kill you. Joel waited. He watched only the sweep second hand on his desk chronometer; he did not need his screens, for he knew too well what was transpiring three hundred and twelve feet below him. He had seen it too many times. And too many times had he waited the necessary two minutes, listened to the taut silence of the waiting communicator. "Command to Southard. Task mission dispatched and advancing. Now describe your situation." "As follows -- " The young lieutenant's voice was still taut, but it was not at the edge of panic. Of that Joel was certain. It was just that this was the first time, and it wasn't a field exercise, and it hadn't just been learned the night before from an Academy manual... "Servounit #, sample tapping with four facilities at two hundred feet. Metal encountered; processed. Object depth-screened; fabricated. Extends from minus two zero zero to minus five two seven. Diameter three zero feet. Further investigation withheld pending arrival of task mission. Over for Command." Over for Command, the young voice said. So many, many times... He was not exactly the same Nicholas Joel, now. He was Command... "All right, boy, sit easy and try to relax. What the hell is it you've got holed up out there?" "It's a -- a space ship, sir." "What class?" "I don't know, sir. It isn't Terrestrial." "All right, what do the counters tell you?" "It's about a thousand years old, sir. That's as close as the counters can come, working off a screen. Perhaps, sir, you'd -- " "Well I don't want to look at pictures! Inform task mission when they show up that I'm coming out for a look around -- and I'll have their hides if they go unnailing things before I get there. You got any Bond with you, Southard?" "Yes sir." "All right, you get my point? Don't drink it all! This is Command, Whale, out!" Joel broke the circuit just as the admittance buzzer went off ; he thumbed a stud and the narrow bulkhead door slid back, admitting Carruthers and Dobermann. "Was wondering when you two were going to report. Sent a T-M to Southard -- says he's found a space ship two hundred feet under the desert. Sometimes I think that kid works too hard. All right, got the 'copter ready?" "Warming up on the waist ramp now," Dobermann said. Joel stood up, reached for his guns and belt and strapped them around his thick middle. He gave Carruthers a quick look. The thin face was taut, almost expressionless, but there was an excitement smouldering in the dark eyes; the old excitement Joel had seen in them so many times before. "No objections to the artillery this time, I take it, Sam?" Joel grunted as he clasped the big buckle, let the weight of the blasters sag their holsters down into position on his thighs. "Damn good of you! And I'm glad you understand these people so well -- while we're on our way maybe you can tell me why they bury space ships." "Maybe we ought to ask them, Skipper," Sam said with a halfsmile on his thin lips. "I get your point. But maybe they should've told us! Come on." sion's guns had been reversed; drawn about the area where Southard's servounits were noisily sucking up sand, they no longer were concentrated on the excavation site, but instead defended it, slender snouts commanding an immense circular field of fire. "You don't trust them at that, do you, Nicholas?" Carruthers said above the racket of the servounits. "Lord, you could slaughter an army -- " "This is what it says to do in the goddamn books!" Joel snapped. "You're the guys who were so glad to make a strike." The heavy, tracked machinery with its towering drill-housings and down-thrust vacuum-scoops whined and growled in a nerve-wrenching discord of power. Men sweated under the mild sun with a silent hurry, with a disciplined excitement. Southard was fast and efficient. Dobermann was silent, watching, analyzing. Carruthers had the hungry look in his eyes that Joel did not understand. And Joel was impatient. It was a tableau of men and machines that he had watched before, and always, at the end of it, there was something big for him to handle -- frustrating if not dangerous, a mind and bone-wearying struggle if not an outright battle. They never came smooth, never. "Forehull clear, sir!" It was Southard, calling from the lip of the immense hole his machines had excavated. "Cut your servos!" Southard signalled to his units, and they muttered slowly into silence, and then the silence hung over them all like a heavy thing, and Captain Nicholas Joel knew that what happened next was up to him. With a motion of one gauntleted hand he brought Dobermann and Carruthers in next to him, and then the three of them walked with a disciplined haste to the sandy lip, past Southard, and looked down. A pitted forehull jutted up out of the moist sand two hundred feet below them, its plates glittering darkly in the rays of the powerful illumination units which had already been lowered. Dobermann' s quick eyes took in each detail in seconds, and then they darted up to Joel's face. Carruthers was silent, and his face was white. "All right, let's get some winchlifts over here!" Joel bellowed. "Torches, can-openers, let's get with it!" And within minutes, Joel was on his way down in a bucket, big boots planted solidly on a small mountain of heavy tools. Dobermann was following, and Carruthers was in the third bucket. Joel's bare hands were exploring the gnurled lip of the fore-hull lock-hatch before either of them hit bottom. Dobermann was first up beside him, a heavy torch cradled in his short, thick arms. "Ready?" "Won't need that thing," Joel grunted. "Nobody locked up when they left. Give me a hand." The hatch, like the rest of the hull, was pitted, but despite the moistness of the sand in which the ship was imbedded, there were no indications of corrosion. Joel made a mental note to have the lubricants in which the hingegymbals were packed analyzed later; they were still as good as new; the hatch was giving almost easily. Carruthers, with an arc lantern, lit their way inside. They walked into what was obviously a pilots' compartment. Instruments, control panels, ack-seats, notations on metal-leaf note-pads which they did not understand; Dobermann copied them. They descended ladder walks into the forewaist; crew compartment. Functional, compact, reflecting the same efficient engineering which they had encountered in the previous compartment. Through a second bulkhead opening; supply compartment. Through another; cargo hold. It was not empty, and loading gear was in evidence, although neatly stowed in its locks. "Mneurium-#," Carruthers said. The words made a hollow sound in the emptiness behind them. They kept going. Armory. All units still in place. Engine room. Dobermann's counter ticked slowly in the stillness. Still a little kick left in the piles. Machine-shop ; lab. Spotless, perfect order. Finally, tubes. The smooth metal gleamed in the light of Carruthers' lamp. And that was all. Joel turned wordlessly and started back up the ladder-walks. Dobermann and Carruthers clanged hollowly after him, scrambling to keep up. Joel didn't stop until he had climbed back into one of the buckets, and then he waved impatiently. Machinery whined above him, and his bucket swung clear. At the lip, he motioned for Southard. "All right, I want ten of your people with technical research rates. Leave them with Dobermann and Carruthers. Issue return orders to your T-M, and then get these units out of here and digging up what we came after." "But -- yes sir." Dobermann and Carruthers were at the lip, climbing out of their buckets. There was a puzzzled look, even on Dobermann's usually taciturn face. "You two," Joel snapped, "will have a crew of researchers. Ten men. Take twenty-four hours and scrape the insides of this thing. Carruthers will report directly to me when you're finished. Dobermann, you'll nail K'hall-i-k'hall to a wall somewhere and don't let him down until you find out what became of whoever flew this tank." He turned and walked away before anyone could protest. the flagon. He looked again at the faded image in the small, rectangular frame, finally returned it to the breast pocket of his tunic. Then he looked up across the mahogany desk at Carruthers and Dobermann. "So," he said slowly, "so he told you he didn't know, did he?" "Yes, Captain, that is what he told me. He was surprised about the space ship. He called the others in. There was the same reaction. They -- " Joel leaped to his feet. "Don't give me that!" he thundered. He grabbed at the bottle of Bond; spilled it as he poured. "You know he knows!" "Captain, I was quite convinced." "Quite convinced, quite convinced, were you... All right, Dobermann, get out of here. You find out anything, let me know. Sam, I want to talk to you. Go on Dobermann, git!" Joel slumped back behind the desk as his first officer pivoted, left. He tried a swallow from the flagon ; fumbled at his tunic pocket for the small frame, extracted it; looked at it again. Then put it back a second time. Carruthers sat down opposite him. "You going to talk to me, Nicholas, or pass out before you get the chance?" "All right, Sam." Joel got up, put the Bond back in its cabinet; emptied the flagon and put it in too. "I get your point. Only you listen. The crew of that ship was deliberately murdered. Cold-bloodedly murdered, and it isn't going to happen to us." "I see." The ship's surgeon eyed the tips of his fingernails, then slowly looked up into Joel's red, swollen face. "Naturally, there wouldn't be any bodies around to prove your theory, would there, skipper? And no signs of struggle. We didn't see any. Of course, their guns were racked up pretty neatly -- But it's all there in the report -- " he waved a slender hand toward a roll of tape on the desk. "Never mind your sarcastic technicalities! They were -- " "Nicholas, sit down. And listen." "All right. But I don't get your point! And I don't want any of your double-talk! The trouble with you guys -- " "First of all, Nicholas, you know that crew wasn't murdered or anything of the kind. And you know, and Dobermann realizes that you know he knows, that K'hall-i-k'hall was lying in his teeth. And K'hall-ik'hall knows we know it." Joel lowered his eyes. "All right, Sam," he said. No, there hadn't been any use in trying to drum up a bunch of tripe -- no use in trying to fool Sam. He had known that from the start. But sometimes -- sometimes, even when a man knew he was fooling himself, he had to give it a try, just to see -- "They went native, didn't they, Sam?" he said. "Yes, Skipper. They did. Somebody back where they came from needed that mneurium-# real bad. Somebody had guts and sweat and brains enough to get ships into space looking for it. And in their own way, somebody had faith enough to think they'd get it if it was to be found. Only, as you say -- " "Liked it here, I suppose. Liked it better than anything they'd ever seen before -- and that can of theirs had a thumping set of drives, so they'd seen plenty." There was silence for a moment. And then Sam said, "Well, Nicholas, there it is. The psychology of the thing is obvious enough, isn't it?" Carruthers gave him a meaningful look, and Joel's nerves rebelled at it. "All right, I get your point!" A big fist slammed down on the desktop. "So somebody didn't get their mneurium-#! Somebody probably ornery enough to keep on living anyway. What do you want to bet they're still going strong, who or wherever they are out in that black hell up there? What do you want to bet, Sam?" The surgeon's thin lips smiled gently. "I'd bet right along with you, Nicholas. They're probably still going strong. I imagine they made out." "But K'hall-i-k'hall -- " "Is proprietor of a very pleasant world. A world of very nice people, Nicholas, who enjoy living in, their way, and get a kick out of seeing other people enjoy it. They think a little differently than a lot of folks." "That makes 'em bad, I suppose?" "No." Joel looked into the thin face, the intent, dark eyes. The look was in them. And Joel guessed he was finally letting himself realize what the look really meant. It was a look that meant a hunger for all that Joel hated, and more... It was a look that meant, even now after all these years, that Sam still hurt inside, and hurt badly. "Why -- why couldn't it have been the other way around , Sam," Joel said hoarsely. The other looked up at him. "You do hate it that much, don't you." "Look Sam, you've gotta get my point! I don't think that crew did anything wrong! They didn't. They just decided to stop being hunks of machinery." Carruthers smiled. "I get your point. Skipper. And I'm going to let you figure this one out all by yourself. But I'd like to tell you something first, just sort of as a point of information; maybe it'll help. Skipper, I had a girl once, too." Joel stood still. Then he turned, opened his mouth to speak, then clamped it hard shut. "They told me I couldn't pilot. But I could help, and my help was needed -- everybody's was, because this wasn't a matter of a govemment project. This was a matter of a race of people who were building a ladder -- a big, tall ladder, Nicholas. Sometimes it was a killer. Sometimes a heartbreaker. Sometimes a laughingstock. But it belonged to men , and they lived and died for it; they built it , and it's theirs to climb , Nicholas!" Joel watched the other's worn face, and now the hurt was naked in it. "She said, Nicholas, that it was all off if I decided to go up to space. I loved her, Skipper. And I loved the tall ladder" Joel whirled. "Sure, and what's it got us, Sam? A bellyful of cold, aching loneliness -- our guts twisted and squeezed until the life's dried up in 'em -- and what do we get? What do those wrangling, yapping, bellyaching rotters back home give us for it? Pension us off when we can't see our blast-off studs anymore and forget about us. "They take the stuff we bring 'em -- just as if it grew on trees, just as if it grew into a neat, pretty package somewhere all by itself! With money they can buy it -- with enough money they can buy all of it! Even if we had to get it with the air sucked out of us, with our brains boiled out of us, with our crazy heads busted in. "And you know what, Sam? There was even a time when they said we couldn't do it at all! A hundred years ago, they laughed at us for trying to get to the moon! They laughed, Sam -- and those who didn't laugh didn't even give a damn at all! "So I was to tell the girl I'd marry her later, but that right now they thought I ought to be a pilot! I was to say to my life : I'll live you later, but right now I've got to be a .pilot... And I was to freeze my insides for twenty years showing 'em they were wrong to laugh, and that it was time they gave a damn, that what I could bring home was going to mean a lot to the world they live on! "And like a fool I did! "And Sam -- Sam, they're still yapping like little dogs for a piece of meat -- not just a good piece of meat, but all wrapped up nice and fancy, no mistakes allowed, every time they whistle! And the whistling gets so easy, Sam -- so easy. You can even do it while you're stabbing your neighbor in the back, while you're selling his kids down the river -- even while you're taking your next breath to yap some more! "They can go to hell, Sam! They can go to hell." Joel slumped down in the chair behind the mahogany desk. The surgeon looked at him, looked away. "You've made up your mind, then." "That's right." "I suppose Dobermann and I can get the ship back somehow." "You'll make it." "I guess we will. Unless the rest feel the way you do -- and I know half the crew thinks this is quite a place. In which case, of course, I suppose they'll survive, back home, even without the mneurium-# -- they have for a long time. But there is one thing." "Yeah, yeah." "These people are fine people, as you've -- found out. You couldn't even replace that dhennah " "How did you -- " "They're swell folks, Nicholas, and always will be," the surgeon said softly, "and they've never built a thing, and never will. "They don't know greed, because no one has ever achieved anything worth another's wanting. "They don't know jealousy, because no one has ever obtained anything that another couldn't. "They don't know hate, because no one has ever discovered a thing for which to fight that another thinks of sufficient value to fight for. "Only -- if they don't know hate or jealousy, Skipper -- then, they don # t know love ! # Quietly, Carruthers rose from his chair. For a moment, he hesitated. "What is it you're lonely for, Nicholas?" he asked, and then he left the fore-waist bridge. sun-fire against the blackness of the cool night, and a thunder of power. Slowly, ponderously, the White Whale backed down her column of flame, hesitated, flared again for a final time from her thick stem, and then settled to Earth. Gantries rolled into position. And the sound of lock-hatches clanging open thrilled the length of the White Whale , and there were the muffled voices of men, and the voices became shouts with the joy loud in them. The men trooped down from their great metal monster as fast as the lifts would carry them, and in small groups and in crowds they made their boistrous way across the landing plaza and toward home. And when the shouts had died, a last man descended the smooth sides of the White Whale . His eyes glanced over the great bulk of her, making certain she was secure. Then he, too, walked from her, but not as quickly as the rest. Captain Nicholas Joel walked slowly, because he was tired. On every side of him, in dark shadow against the night, there were tall, slender, streamlined shapes pointing toward the stars. His slow boot-steps echoed from their hulls as he passed, a tiny midge of a thing, between them. As Sam had said, these were things that Man had made. And among them again was the White Whale . They had said he was a good pilot.    Who so clearly appreciates all that is implied in the falling of a stone can have no difficulty about any theory simply on account of its marvelousness. -- Thomas Huxley Life is the uninterrupted progression of the past, which gnaws at the future, and swells as it advances. -- Bergson Illustrated by Ed Emsh Where there's a will there's a way; and love can be a powerful motive. But a hundred years of waiting for your man to come home requires something else... as in this legend of Philip and Miranda. One Love Have I suppers, which were being revived at the time. Philip had just arrived in the little academic village that evening and he had just finished unpacking his clothes and his books. There had been nothing more for him to do till morning when he was due to report at the university, and feeling restless, and feeling a little lonely too (as he'd admitted to Miranda later), he had left the boarding house with the intention of wandering about the village till he was tired enough to sleep. He had hardly gone two blocks, however, before he had come to the brightly lit community hall where the supper was in progress, and strangely intrigued, perhaps motivated by the stirring of some pleasant racial memory, he had paused before the entrance. Through the wide-flung doors he had seen the long table in the middle of the floor, and the foodladen tables, each with a girl in blue behind it, lining the walls. He had seen the men and women passing the food tables, carrying trays, and he had heard the clatter of dishes and the reassuring sound of homely voices. He had noticed the sign above the entrance then, and the simplicity of it had touched and filled him with a yearning he hadn't experienced since he was a boy, and he had climbed the wide steps that led to the open doors and stepped into the hall. It was a warm night in September and the curtains at the big windows were breathing in a gentle wind. He saw her instantly. She was behind the ham sandwich table on the opposite side of the room, tall, darkhaired, her face a lovely flower above the blue petals of her collar. The moment he stepped through the doorway she became the cynosure of the scene, and everything else -- tables, diners, walls, floor -- became vague extraneous details which an artist adds to a picture to accentuate its central subject. He was only dimly aware of the other people as he walked across the room. He was halfway to her table, before she looked up and saw him. Their eyes touched then, her blue ones and his gray; touched and blended, achieved a moment apart from time. And he had fallen in love with her, and she with him, and it didn't matter what the Freudian psychologists said about that kind of love because the Freudian psychologists simply didn't know about that kind of love, about the way it was to walk into a room and see a girl and know instantly, without understanding how you knew -- or caring even -- that she, and she alone, was the girl for you, the girl you wanted and had always wanted, would want forever -- Forever and a day .  . His hands were shaking again and he made them place a cigarette between his lips and then he made them light it. But when they had finished the task and the first pale exhalation of smoke was hovering in the little compartment, they were still shaking, and he held them tightly together on his lap and forced his eyes to look out the window of the monorail car at the passing countryside. The land was a tired green, a September green. There was goldenrod on hillsides, and the tips of sumac leaves were just beginning to redden. The car swayed as the overhead rail curved around a hill and spanned a valley. It was a lovely valley but it wasn't a familiar one. However, Philip wasn't perturbed : the car was still too far from Cedarville for him to be seeing familiar places. He'd never been much for traveling and it would be some time yet before he could start looking for remembered hills and forests, valleys, roads, houses -- Houses sometimes stood for a hundred years. Not very often, maybe, but once in a while. It wasn't too much to ask. He lay his head back on the pneumatic head rest and tried to relax. That was what the Deep Freeze Rehabilitation Director had instructed him to do. "Relax. Keep your mind empty. Let things enter into your awareness gradually, and above all don't think of the past." Relax, Philip thought. Don't think of the past. The past is past, past, past... The car swayed again and his head turned slightly. The monorail bordered a spaceport at this point, but he had never seen a spaceport before and for a moment he thought that the car was passing through a vast man-made desert. Then he saw the lofty metallic towers pointing proudly into the afternoon sky, and presently he realized that they weren't towers at all, but ships instead. He stared at them, half frightened. They were one of the phenomena of the new era for which he was unprepared. There had been spaceships in his own era of course, but there hadn't been very many of them and they had been rather puny affairs, strictly limited to interplanetary travel. They bore no resemblance to the magnificent structures spread out before his eyes now. The Sweike Drive hadn't been discovered till the year of his trial, and he began to realize the effect it had had on space travel during the ensuing century. In a way it was not surprising. Certainly the stars were a greater incentive to man than the lifeless planets of the home system ever could have been. Alpha Centauri, Sirius, Altair, Vega -- One of the ships had gone as far as Arcturus, the Rehabilitation Director had told him. It had returned scarcely six months ago after an absence of almost # years. Philip shook his head. It was data he could not accept, data too fantastic for him to accept. To him it belonged in a probability story, a story that you read with interest, then forget the moment you laid it aside. He had always considered himself modern. He had always kept abreast of his age and , accepted change as a part of the destiny of man. Scientific progress had never dismayed him; rather, it had stimulated him, and in his chosen field of political philosophy he had been far ahead of his contemporaries, both in vision and in practical application. He had been, in fact, the epitome of modern civilized man -- One hundred years ago... Wearily he turned his eyes from the window and regarded the gray walls of the compartment. He remembered his cigarette when it nipped his fingers, and he dropped it into the disposal tray. He picked up the magazine he had been trying to read some time before and tried to read it again, but his mind stumbled over unfamiliar words, over outrageous idioms, faltered before undreamed-of concepts. The magazine slipped from his fingers to the seat again and he let it lie there. He felt like an old, old man, yet, in a subjective sense he wasn't old at all. Despite the fact that he had been born one hundred and twentyseven years ago, he was really only twenty-seven. For the years in the Deep Freeze didn't count -- a hundred year term in suspended animation was nothing more than a wink in subjective time. He lay his head back on the head rest again. Relax, he told himself. Don't think of the past. The past is past past past... Tentatively he closed his eyes. The moment he did so he knew it had been a mistake, but it was too late then, for the time stream already had eddied back more than a hundred years to a swiftly flowing September current...  It had been a glorious day for a picnic and they had discovered a quiet place on a hill above the village. There was a cool spring not far away, and above their heads an enormous oak spread its branches against a lazy autumn sky. Miranda had packed liverwurst sandwiches in little pink bags and she had made potato salad. She spread a linen tablecloth on the grass, and they ate facing each other, looking into each other's eyes. A light wind gamboled about them, left ephemeral footprints on the hillside. The potato salad had been rather flat, but he had eaten two helpings so that she wouldn't suspect that he didn't like it; and he'd also eaten two of the liverwurst sandwiches, though he didn't care for liverwurst at all. After they finished eating they drank coffee, Miranda pouring it from the large picnic thermos into paper cups. She had been very careful not to spill a drop, but she had spilt a whole cup instead, on his shirtsleeve. She had been contrite and on the verge of tears, but he had only loved her all the more; because her awkwardness was as much a part of her as her dark brown hair, as her blue eyes, as her dimples and her smile. It softened the firm maturity of her young woman's body, lent her movements a school-girlish charm; put him at ease in the aura of her beauty. For it was reassuring to know that so resplendent a goddess as Miranda had human frailties just as lesser creatures did. After the coffee they had reclined in the shade, and Miranda had recited "Afternoon on a Hill" and Philip had remembered some of Rupert Brooke's "The Old Vicarage, Grantchester". Miranda was in her final year at the university -- she was twenty-one -- and she was majoring in English Literature. That had put them on common ground from the start, for Philip had loved literature since the moment he had opened Huckleberry Finn as a boy, and during the ensuing years he had never lost contact with it. He had been affecting a pipe at the time (a pipe lent you a desperately needed dignity when you were only twenty-six and commencing your first semester of teaching), and Miranda had filled it for him, holding his lighter over the bowl while he puffed the tobacco into ruddy life... It had been such a splendid afternoon, such a glorious aftemon, filled with September wind and September sunshine, with soft words and quiet laughter. The sun was quite low when they prepared to leave, and Philip hadn't wanted to leave at all. Miranda had seemed reluctant too, folding the linen tablecloth slowly, being far more meticulous than she usually was when she folded things, and then picking up the bowl half filled with potato salad, intending to set it in the picnic basket. She didn't quite make the basket, however, for the bowl was large and clumsy and she was using only one hand. It escaped her fingers somehow, and overturned, and his lap was just beneath. That had been the last time he had ever worn his Madagascar slacks. Her eyes had become so big and so round with dismay that he would have laughed if they had been anyone else's eyes besides Miranda's. You could never laugh at Miranda's eyes; they were too deep and too blue. He had only smiled instead, and said it didn't matter, and wiped his slacks with his handkerchief. Then he had seen her tears, and he had seen her standing there helplessly, tall and gawky, a child really, a lovely child who had become a woman a little too soon, and a beautiful woman too. And something within him had collapsed and a softness had spread all through him, and he had taken her into his arms and said, "Miranda, Miranda. Will you marry me, Miranda?" The spaceport was far behind and the car was twisting through hills, humming on its overhead rail. It skimmed the treetops of a forest and passed high above a river. Looking down at the river bank, Philip saw his first familiar landmark. It was nothing more than a pile of crumbled masonry now, overgrown with river weeds and sumac, but once, he knew, yesterday or a hundred years ago, it had been a public villa, and he had spent an afternoon on one of its sun splashed patios, sipping cocktails and idly watching the white flurries of sails on the blue water below. And thinking of nothing, absolutely nothing -- Except Miranda. Desperately he forced her out of his mind. It had been all right to think of her a century ago. It wasn't now. He couldn't think of her now because thinking of her tore him apart; because he had a reality to face and if he thought of her the way she had been a hundred years ago he wouldn't be able to face it -- he wouldn't be able to search for her in the Gedarville cemetery and put flowers on her grave. The Rehabilitation Director had told him that in a way his sentence had been merciful, merciful by accident of course, and not design. It would have been far worse, the Rehabilitation Director had said, for him to have been sentenced for only fifty years and then to have gone home, a man of twenty-seven, to a wife who had just passed seventy-two. But it was naive to speak of mercy, even accidental mercy, in connection with the age of the Congressional Regime. An age that could condemn a man to suspended animation, tear him forcibly from the moment in time where he belonged, to be resurrected decades later into a moment in time where he did not belong -- an age like that had no mercy, had no conception of the meaning of the word. Such an age was brutal, or more brutal, or less brutal; but it was never merciful. And an age like the present one, while it had rediscovered mercy, was incapable of bestowing it upon a resurrected criminal. It could apologize to him for the cruelty of of the preceding age, and it could remunerate him handsomely for the lost years, make him independent for life; but it could not give him back that moment in time that was uniquely his own, it could not bring back the soft smile and the unforgettable laughter of the woman he loved. It could not obliterate a cemetery lot with a grave that had no right to be there, a grave that had not been there a subjective yesterday ago. It could not erase the words "Miranda Lorring, b. #, d. # -- " or was it "# -- "? -- he couldn't know of course, not yet, but he hoped she'd lived long and happily, and that she'd remarried and had children. She had been meant to have children. She had been too full of love not to have had them. But if she had remarried, then her name wouldn't be Miranda Lorring. It would be Miranda something else, Miranda Green, perhaps, or Miranda Smith; and perhaps she had moved away from Cedarville, perhaps he was going home for nothing. No, not for nothing. He'd at least be able to trace her from Cedarville, trace her to wherever she'd gone to live, find her grave and cover it with forgetme-nots -- forget-me-nots had been her favorite flower -- and shed a tear on some quiet afternoon, her  kiss of a hundred years ago a warm memory on his lips. He got up in the gently swaying compartment and stepped over to the water cooler and dialed a drink. He had to do something, anything at all, to distract his mind. And the dial was so simple, so child-simple, requiring but the flick of his finger, and no thought, no attention. It could not interrupt the flow of his thoughts even briefly, and the cool taste of the water only gave the flow impetus, sent it churning through his mind, wildly, turning his knees weak, sending him staggering back to the seat, his grief a tight-packed lump swelling upward from his chest to his throat, and the memories, released, flowing freely now, catching him up and carrying him back to the light days, to the bright glorious days, back to his finest moment -- Miranda had worn blue and Philip had worn his academic dacrons. The Cedarville justice of the peace had performed the ceremony, being very brusque about it, saying the words as fast as he could and even holding out his hand for the fee the moment he had finished. But Philip had not minded. Nothing seemed ugly to him that day, not even the November rain that began to fall when they left the justice's house, not even the fact that he had been unable to obtain leave of absence from the university. The wedding took place on Friday night and that gave them Saturday and Sunday; but two days weren't enough for a trip, and they decided to spend their honeymoon in the little house Philip had bought on Maple Street. It was an adorable house, Miranda said for the hundreth time when they paused before it in the rain. Philip thought so too. It was set well back from the street and there were two catalpa trees in the front yard, one on either side of the little walk. There was a tiny porch, latticed on each side, and a twentieth century paneled door. He had carried her over the threshold, breathing a little hard, for she was quite heavy, and set her down in the middle of the living room. All of his books were there, on built-in shelves on either side of the open fireplace, and Miranda's knickknacks covered the mantel. The new parlor suite matched the mauve-grey curtains. She had been shy when he kissed her, and he hadn't known quite what to say. Being alone together in their own house involved an intimacy for which neither of them had been prepared, despite all the whispered phrases and stolen kisses, the looks passed in the university corridors, the afternoons shared, and the autumn evenings walking together along leaf-strewn streets. Finally she had said, "I'll make some coffee," and had gone into the kitchen. The first thing she had done was to drop the coffee canister, and there was the coffee, dark against the gleaming floor, and there was Miranda, her blue eyes misted, lovely in her blue dress, a goddess in the room, his goddess; and then a goddess in his arms, soft-lipped and pliant, then warm and suddenly tight-pressed against him, her arms about his neck and her dark hair soft against his face A village showed in the distance, between wooded hills. It was a deserted village and it had fallen into ruin, but there were remnants of remembered buildings still standing and Philip recognized it as a little town not far from Cedarville. He had very few memories associated with it, so he experienced but little pain. He experienced fear instead, for he knew that very soon the car would be slowing, that shortly he would be stepping down to the rotting platform of the Cedarville station. And he knew that he would be seeing another deserted village, one with many memories, and he was afraid that he couldn't endure the sight of remembered streets choked with weeds, of beloved houses fallen into decay, of vacant staring windows that long ago had glowed with warmth and life. The Rehabilitation Director had explained about the deserted villages, the emptying cities, the approaching desuetude of Earth. Interstellar Travel had given back the dream that Interplanetary Travel had taken away. Arid Venus and bleak Mars were uninhabitable, and the ice-choked outer planets weren't planets at all, but wheeling glaciers glinting malevolently in pale sunlight. Alpha Centauri # was something else, however, and Sirius #I was a dream come true. The Sweike Drive had delivered Man from the dilemma in which his proclivity to overproduce himself had involved him, and Earth was losing its population as fast as ships could be built to transport colonists to the stars. There were colonies as far out as Vega and before long there would be one in the Arcturus system. Except for the crews who manned the ships, interstellar runs were a one way proposition. People went out to distant suns and settled in spacious valleys, in virgin timberlands, at the feet of unexploited mountains. They did not return. And it was better that way, the Rehabilitation Director had said, for a one way ticket resolved the otherwise irresolvable problem of the Lorentz transformation. Philip looked out at the tumbled green hills through which the car was passing. It was late afternoon, and long shadows lay coolly in deep valleys. The sun was low in the sky, reddening, and around it cumulus clouds were becoming riotous with color. A wind wrinkled the foliage of new forests, bent the meadow grass on quiet hillsides. He sighed. Earth was sufficient for him. The stars could give him nothing that he could not find here: a woodland to walk in, a stream to read by, a blue sky to soften his sorrow... The tumbled hills gave way to fields, and the fields ushered in a vaguely familiar stand of cedars. He became aware that the car was slowing, and glancing up at the station screen he saw the nostalgic name spelled out in luminescent numbly and pulled his slender valise from the overhead rack. His chest was tight and he could feel a throbbing in his temple. Through the window he caught glimpses of outlying houses, of collapsed walls and sagging roofs, of moldering porches and overgrown yards. For a moment he thought that he couldn't go through with it, that he couldn't force himself to go through with it. Then he realized that the car had stopped, and he saw the compartment door slide open and the metallic steps leaf out. He descended the steps without thinking, down to the reinforced platform. His feet had hardly touched the ancient timbers before the car was in motion again, humming swiftly away on its overhead rail, losing itself in the haze of approaching evening. He stood without moving for a long time. The utter silence that precedes evening in the country was all around him. In the west, the wake of the sun was deepening from orange to scarlet, and the first night shadows were creeping in from the east. Presently he turned and started up the street that led to the center of the village. He walked slowly, avoiding the clumps of grass that had thrust up through the cracks and crevices in the old macadam, ducking beneath the low limbs of tangled maples. The first houses began to appear, standing forlornly in their jungles of yards. Philip looked at them and they looked back with their sunken staring eyes, and he looked quickly away. When he reached the point where the street sloped down into the little valley where the village proper lay, he paused. The cemetery was on the opposite slope of the valley and to reach it he would have to pass Maple Street, the community hall, the university, and half a hundred other remembered places. No matter how much he steeled himself, he would experience the tug of a thousand associations, relive a thousand cherished moments. Suddenly his strength drained from him and he sat down on his upended valise. What is hell? he asked himself. Hell, he answered himself, is the status reserved for the individuals of a totalitarian state who voice truths contrary to the rigid credo of that state; who write books criticizing the self-appointed guardians of mass man's intellectual boundaries. Hell is what remains to a man when everything he loves has been taken away... It had been a modest book, rather thin, with an academic jacket done in quiet blue. It had been published during the fall of the same year he had married Miranda, and at first it had made no stir at all. The name of it had been The New Sanhedrin. Then, during the winter, it had caught the collective eye of that subdivision of the Congressional State known as the Subversive Literature Investigative Body, and almost immediately accusations had begun to darken the front pages of newspapers and to resound on the no time. It set out to crucify Philip, the way the high priests of the Sanhedrin had set out to crucify Christ over two thousand years ago. He had not believed they would go so far. In developing his analogy between the Congressional State and the Sanhedrin, demonstrating how both guarded their supreme power by eliminating everyone who deviated from the existent thoughtworld, he had anticipated publicity, perhaps even notoriety. He had never anticipated imprisonment, trial, and condemnation; he had never dreamed that a political crime could rate the supreme punishment of that new device of inhuman ingenuity which had supplanted the chair and the gas chamber and the gallows -- the Suspended Animation Chambers popularly known as the Deep Freeze. He had underestimated the power of his own prose and he had underestimated the power of the group his prose had censured. He had forgotten that totalitarian governments are always on the lookout for scapegoats; someone to make an example of, a person with few funds and with no political influence, and preferably a person engaged in one of the professions which the mass of men have always resented. Specifically, an obscure political philosopher. He had forgotten, but he had remembered. He had remembered on that bleak morning in April, when he heard the puppet judge intone the sentence -- "One hundred years suspended animation for subversive activities against the existent governing body, term to begin September #, # and to expire September #, #. Gradien cell locks to be employed, so that any attempt by future governing authorities to alleviate said term shall result in the instant death of the prisoner... The months between April and September had fled like light. Miranda visited him every day, and the two of them tried to force the rest of their lives into fleeting seconds, into precious moments that kept slipping through their fingers. In May they celebrated Philip's birthday, and in July, Miranda's The celebration in each case consisted of a "Happy Birthday, darling," and a kiss stolen behind the omnipresent guard's back. And all the while he had seen the words in her eyes, the words she had wanted to say desperately and couldn't say, the words, "I'll wait for you, darling." And he knew that she would have waited if she only could have, that she would have waited gladly; but no woman could wait for you a hundred years, no matter how much she loved you, no matter how faithful she was. He had seen the words in her eyes in the last moment, had seen them trembling on her lips ; and he had known what not being able to say them had done to her. He had seen the pain in the soft lines of her child-like face, in the curve of her sensitive mouth, and he had felt it in her farewell kiss -- the anguish, the despair, the hopelessness. And he had stood there woodenly before the elevator, between the guards, unable to cry because tears were inadequate, unable to smile because his lips were stiff, because his cheeks were stone, and his jaw granite. She was the last thing he saw before the elevator door slid shut, and that was as it should have been. She was standing in front of the Deep Freeze window and behind her, behind the cruel interstices of wire mesh, the blue September sky showed, the exact hue of her eyes. That was the way he had remembered her during the descent to the underground units and along the clammy corridor to his refrigerated cell... whether they be collective or individual, are numbered. The budding dictatorship of Philip's day was no more than an ugly memory now. The Sweike Drive had thwarted it, had prevented it from coming into flower. For man's frustrations faded, when he found that he could reach the stars; and without frustrations to exploit, no dictatorship can survive. But the harm small men do outlives them, Philip thought. And if that axiom had been true before the advent of the Deep Freeze, it was doubly true now. With the Deep Freeze man had attained Greek tragedy. He lit a cigarette and the bright flame of his lighter brought the deepening shadows of the street into bold relief. With a shock he realized that night had fallen, and looking up between the tangled trees he saw the first star. He stood up and started down the sloping street. As he progressed, more stars came out, bringing the ancient macadam into dim reality. A night wind came up and breathed in the trees, whispered in the wild timothy that had preempted tidy lawns, rattled rachitic shutters. He knew that seeing the house would only cause him pain, but it was a pain he had to endure, for homecoming would not be complete until he had stepped upon his own doorstep. So when he came to Maple Street he turned down the overgrown sidewalk, making his way slowly between giant hedges and riotous saplings. For a moment he thought he saw the flicker of a light far down the street, but he could not be sure. He knew of course that there was very little chance that the house would still be standing -- a hundred years is a long time for a house to live -- that if it were still standing it would probably be changed beyond recognition, decayed beyond recognition. And yet, it was still standing and it had not changed at all. It was just the same as it had been when he had left it over a hundred years ago, and there was a light shining in the living room window. He stood very still in the shambles of the street. The house isn't real, he told himself. It can't be real. I won't believe that it's real until I touch it, until I feel its wood beneath my fingertips, its floor beneath my feet. He walked slowly up the little walk. The front lawn was neatly trimmed and there were two tiny catalpa trees standing in newly turned plots of ground. He mounted the steps to the latticed porch and the steps were solid beneath his feet and gave forth the sound of his footsteps. He touched the print lock of the door with the tip of his ring finger and the door obediently opened. Diffidently he stepped over the threshold and the door swung gently to behind him. There was a mauve-grey parlor suite in the living room and it matched the mauve-grey curtains on the windows. Pine knots were ruddy in the open fireplace and his books stood in stately rows on the flanking built-in shelves. Miranda's knickknacks covered the mantel. His easy chair was drawn up before the fire and his slippers were waiting on the floor beside it. His favorite pipe reposed on a nearby end table and a canister of his favorite tobacco stood beside it. On the arm of the chair was a brand new copy of The New Sanhedrin . He stood immobile just within the door, trying hard to breathe. Then he superimposed a rigid objectivity upon the subjective chaos of his thoughts, and forced himself to see the room as it really was and not as he wished it to be. The lamp in the window was like the lamp Miranda had kept in the window a hundred years ago, but it wasn't the same lamp. It was a duplication. And the parlor suite was very much like the one that had been in the room a hundred years ago when he had carried Miranda over the threshold, and yet it wasn't quite the same, and neither were the curtains. There were differences in the material, in the design -- slight differences, but apparent enough if you looked for them. And his easy chair -- that was a duplication too, as were his slippers and his pipe; The New San he dr in. The fireplace was the same, and yet not quite the same : the pattern of the bricks was different, the bricks themselves were different, the mantel was different. And the knickknacks on the mantel -- He choked back a sob as he walked over to examine them more closely, for they were not duplications. They were originals and time had been unkind to them. Some of them were broken and a patina of the years covered all of them. They were like children's toys found in an attic on a rainy day... He bent over his books, and they were originals too. He pulled one from the shelf and opened it. The yellowed pages betrayed the passage of the years and he replaced it tenderly. Then he noticed the diary on the topmost shelf. He took it down with trembling hands, opened and turned its pages. When he saw the familiar handwriting, he knew whose diary it was and suddenly his knees were weak and he could not stand, and he collapsed into the easy chair before the fire. Numbly he turned the pages to the first entry. It was dated September #, # -- I walked down the steps , the stone slabs of steps that front the tomb in which men are buried alive , and I walked through the streets of the city . I walked through the streets , the strange streets, past hordes of indifferent people . Gradually I became aware of the passing hours, the fleeting minutes, the swiftflying seconds; and each second became an unbearable pain, each minute a dull agony, each hour a crushing eternity... I do not know how I came to the spaceport . Perhaps God directed my footsteps there. But the moment I saw the shimmering spires of the new ships pointing into the September sky, everything I had ever read concerning the Sweike Drive coalesced blindingly in my mind, and I knew what I had to do. A clock which is in motion moves slower than a stationary clock. The difference is imperceptible at ordinary velocities , but when the speed of light is approached, the difference is enormous. The Sweike Drive approaches the speed of light . It approaches the speed of light as closely as it can be approached , without both men and ship becoming pure energy . A clock on a ship employing the Sweike Drive would barely move at all -- Not daring to believe, he skipped a page -- September #, # -- They tell me it will take two years! Two of my sweet, my precious years to become a space-line stewardess! But there's no other way, no other way at all, and my application is already in. I know they will accept it -- with everyone clamoring for the stars the need for ship's personnel is -- His hands were shaking uncontrollably and the pages escaped from his fingers, days, months, years fluttering wildly by. He halted them finally -- June #, # (Sirius #) -- I have measured time by many moving clocks, and moving clocks are kind. But when planetfall arrives, stationary clocks take over, and stationary clocks are not kind. You wait in some forsaken port for the return run and you count each minute and resent its passage bitterly. For over the decades, the minutes add together into months and years and you are afraid that despite the moving clocks, you will be too old after all -- The pages escaped again and he stopped them at the final entry -- February #, #I -- Today I was officially notified that my application for the Arcturus run has been accepted ! I have been in a kind of ecstatic trance ever since, dreaming and planning, because I can dream and plan now! Now I know that I shall see my beloved again, and I shall wear a white gardenia in my hair, and the perfume he likes the best, and I shall have our house rebuilt and everything in it restored -- there'll be plenty of time if the # year estimate is correct; and when my beloved is released I shall be there waiting to take him in my arms, and though I shall not be as young as he remembers me, I shall not be old either. And the lonely years between the stars shall not have been in vain -- For I have only one love. I shall never have another . page and Philip let the diary slip from his fingers to the arm of the chair. "Miranda," he whispered. He stood up. "Miranda," he said. The house was silent. "Miranda!" he called. "Miranda!" There was no answer. He went from the living room to the bedroom. The bedroom was the way it had been a hundred years ago except that it was empty now. Empty of Miranda. He returned to the living room and went into the kitchen. The kitchen was the same too, but there was no Miranda in it. He switched on the light and stared at the porcelain sink, the chrome stove, the white cupboards, the gleaming utility table -- There was a hand mirror lying on the table, and beside it was a crumpled gardenia. He picked up the gardenia and it was cool and soft in his hand. He held it to his nostrils and breathed its fresh scent. There was another scent mingled with it, a delicate fragrant scent. He recognized it immediately as Miranda's perfume. Suddenly he could not breathe, and he ran out of the house and into the darkness. He saw the light flickering at the end of the street then, and he walked toward it with unbelieving steps. The community hall grew slowly out of the darkness and the light became many lights, became bright windows. From somewhere in the surrounding shadows he heard the humming of a portable generator. When he climbed the steps a hundred years flew away. There was no #c supper of course, and the hall showed unmistakable signs of age, despite the fact that it had been recently remodeled. But there was Miranda. Miranda standing by a lonely table. Miranda crying. A more mature Miranda, with lines showing on her face where no lines had showed before, but light lines, adorable lines... He realized why she had not met him at the Deep Freeze. She had been afraid, afraid that the moving clocks had not moved slowly enough after all; and she must have decided to meet him at the house instead, for she knew he would come home. She must have heard the monorail car pull in, must have known he was on his way -- Suddenly he remembered the mirror and the crumpled gardenia. Silly girl, lovely girl -- His eyes misted and he felt the tears run down his cheeks. He stumbled into the room, and she came hesitantly forward to meet him, her face beautiful with the new years. A goddess in the room, a mature goddess, the awkwardness gone forever, the schoolgirlish charm left somewhere in the abysses between the stars; his goddess -- and then a goddess in his arms, warm and suddenly tight-pressed against him, her dark hair soft against his face, her voice whispering in his ear, across the years, across the timeless infinities, "Welcome home, darling. Welcome home."    False facts are highly injurious to the progress of science, for they often endure long; but false views, if supported by some evidence, do little harm, for everyone takes a salutary pleasure in proving their falseness; and when this is done, one path toward error is often closed and the road to truth is often at the same time opened. -- Charles Darwin In order to assimilate science into our twentieth century culture and its highly industrialized society, we must regard scientific theories as guides to human action and thus an extension of common sense. -- James Bryan Conant The most fitting place for a man to die is where he dies filtered porthole of the tiny cabin and soaked up the sunlight that came through. It felt good after ten months of deep space he said to the little man standing at the cabin's instruments, "our hundredth and last star, and it's an Earth type sun. How much difference is there from our sun?" beside the spectrum screen. "Almost on. Couple of degrees difference." He tossed the chart on the desk and came to stand at Tom's side, the top of his head even with Tom's erect shoulder. His thin face was tense and worried. "Tom," he said, "I have a hunch about this star." He stared at the screen morosely. "I don't receive a thing," Tom chuckled, stretching his flat muscled arms to the low ceiling, his body making a triangle from his narrow hips to his wide shoulders. "What's the hunch?" "Ever have the feeling you'd been some place before when you'd actually never been there? I feel at Tom with his bright blue eyes, v. ;, w ji then looked quickly away, a bit of a red flush high on his cheeks. "It's just because it's like our sun, that's all," Tom said. "No, it's not that, Tom. It's something else. I feel like we ought to get out of here. Maybe it's the planet." "Planet?" Tom said. Earth type planet." "Earth type!" Tom shouted. "Ten thousand credits bonus! Get that spending money baby." and shadowy on one side, bright with blue-green color on the other, the planet floated on the screen. "The blue must be water and the green continents," Tom murmured in awe. "Damn, it's beautiful. We going to pass it close?" "In about five more minutes of you check over these figures? I'm not sure I've allowed enough for the pull of the sun." He shifted the papers aimlessly. "the only thing I know about navigation is what you've taught me this trip. Your figures are right." "I just wanted to make sure I'm navigate close in." He pushed the papers back on the desk. "I guess I'd better call the big shot and let him take over." He pressed the button that rang the buzzer in the Captain's tiny cabin. "Might as well let Pudge in on it too," Tom said, "or the food will be lousy for days." the galley. Captain Bart strode into the cabin, his barrel chest bare and hairy above the shorts he had been napping in. He went straight to the porthole and stood with his fists on his hips, appraising the sun. Then he caught sight of the blue-green ball on the scope. "Earth type planet! Nice going, moved over to the chart desk, a frown making vertical creases in his forehead. Bart turned to Tom without noticing. "Ten thousand credits, Tom. I knew we'd do it. Even in we going to pass it close?" murmured, busy with the charts on the desk. "You'd better check my course, though." "O.K.," Bart said. "Let her go as she's headed." Pudge came in from the galley and took his place beside Tom without comment. "Okay," Bart said, as he sat down in the control board chair, us past just outside the atmosphere. Tom, you do the life search. Pudge, get the pictures." The cabin was silent except for the hum of the instruments. The radar probed the height of the mountains, the depth of the seas, the shape of the continents by recording the patterns of the reflections. The electron telescopes hunted down the movement of life, the artificial straight lines of civilization, the classification of plants; and typed the metals in the ground with the aid of a spectrum. The wave lengths of radio and TV were checked and recorded. One special instrument, sealed in its cabinet and booby-trapped with explosives against tampering, probed for the faint waves of any kind of life, down to single cells in the seas. They made four passes, the last one at a hundred miles from the ground at its closest point. Then, as each man finished his task and relaxed from his instruments, they waited for the automatic tally of the results. The computer glowed and clicked in its dull grey cabinet on the bulkhead, then dropped the tally card in the slot. Bart snatched it out, his grin fading to a blank look as he read it. "Nothing. Not a damn thing, no life at all." He went over to the screen, folded his thick arms across his chest, and stared at it in disgust. Tom picked up the card and studied it. "This is goofey," he said aloud, "the planet's got plant life, plenty of it, but not a trace of animal life, not even plankton in the sea. How'd that happen?" card with Tom. "Gould have bacteria we didn't get from this height, but it sure as hell hasn't got anything else." Pudge held up the pictures ; they showed close-ups of a tangled mass of plants. "All ferns," he said. "Doesn't seem to be anything else." "Why would a planet have ferns and nothing else, not even the beginning of animal life?" Tom wondered aloud. "I once read an account of finding the tiny seeds of Earth's plants them right off the planet and they're so light they just keep going." He looked at the pictures, then at Tom. "Suppose some of them drifted here?" "That's as good a guess as anything else," Tom said. "Maybe the master minds at home can figure it out." "Only seven or eight Earth-type planets in all these years of star mapping and I had to find one with nothing but ferns on it," Bart said in disgust to the screen. "Oh, well, maybe it'll do as a colony. No alien life to worry about, anyway. We'll call it Bart McDonald Planet." found the planet. He should get to name it." Bart was curt. "I'm the captain of this ship ; new planets are named after the captain that discovers them." "Nuts," Tom muttered. "We all had a hand in this. It ought to be named after all of us." "How about calling it the ship's Bart strode over and yanked the log's keyboard out. He banged furiously on the keys for a moment, and then read aloud. "At # this date, discovered McDonald's planet, an Earth class planet, signed, Bart McDonald, Captain." He slammed the log shut. Tom snorted. Bart gave him a dirty look and went over and sat in the control board chair. Pudge had disappeared in the galley as he always did when there was an argument. There were a few minutes of strained silence as they worked over the instruments. Bart turned from the control board. "As long as this place has no life, we'd be safe in landing. Suppose we earn the bonus by bringing back a full report on whether it's fit for a colony or not?" white. Tom frowned, and said nothing. He wanted to land but he didn't want to agree with Bart on anything. "What say?" Bart said. "I'll even put it up for a vote." "Okay," Tom said, thinking of walking in the sun, feeling firm ground under his feet. "It would be a shame to come all this way and then not be able to say we had explored the country." dangerous. And -- and besides, we'd have to go in quarantine when we got back." "So we go in quarantine," Bart said. "We'll get paid for it." He turned to the control board. "Buzz Pudge, so he can get ready." He began punching buttons. They went around to the middle of the day side of the planet, swinging in closer. The continents formed a rough belt around the equator of the planet, with no land extending to the small ice caps on the poles. Tom felt his stomach knot with the thrill of going into the unknown as he watched the screen, but part of the time he was running the lights of the control board through his mind, checking the actions of Bart's big fingers as Bart confidently punched the keys. Then face. It was white, with little splotches of pink, and his slender hands were gripping the chair he was sitting in. "Here we go," Bart shouted exultantly, as the big green light flashed on. He hit the big green key with a stubby forefinger. The auto pilot fired the jets, the ship slowed in its descent, and they were pushed down gently in their chairs. As the spot Bart had picked came up on the screen, they could see the bare red of the ridge sticking up out of the yellow-green of the flat land. Then the yellow-green was right below them, turning black as the jets burned it to ashes. They hovered a minute, then came to rest with a creaking thud that echoed through the ship. The jets cut out, leaving their ears ringing. "Didn't know whether we'd obtrusively wiped the glistening sweat off this slender palms on his coveralls, as he took his place at the panel. When the tests were done, Bart grabbed the tally card as soon as the computer dropped it. "No bacteria at all. Planet's completely sterile. Let's get outside." T OM stopped beside Bart on the narrow strip of red sand at the edge of the vast blue plain of smooth water. The water came right up to their feet without movement, just small ripples that lapped the red sand. The air was clean and brisk, and the wind was soft on his cheek. Bart arched his thick chest and pulled in a great lung full of air. "This is wonderful. Makes a man feel alive again." He yanked the zipper on his coveralls and pulled them off. Then he jumped in the air, swinging his thick arms. Tom grinned at the calisthenics as he peeled off his own coveralls. The sun was warm on his bare white skin. Bart had pulled off his boots and with just hiis shorts left, charged into the water, and made a flat smashing dive. He leaped and splashed the water like a porpoise. Tom grinned at him, and just as he had done during most of his boyhood on Earth, took a gulp of air and dived down into the clear silent depths to the twenty foot deep bottom. He drifted slowly among the rocks. Bart drifted beside him as the seconds ticked by. Tom wished this was Earth and there were some fish to hunt in the clear water with a three pronged spear. Then, as his lungs seemed bursting and he had to have air, he put his feet against the bottom and shoved himself to the surface. Several seconds later, Bart burst through the surface and bobbed beside him. They floated until they got their wind back. "You don't use a suit and oxygen tanks," Bart said. "You couldn't stay under two seconds if you did." "I learned to hunt as a boy," Tom said. "I even had to make my own spear out of scraps. Kids don't have the credits for suits and stuf f." "No sport to it with a suit," Bart said, as they paddled lazily along with their heads up, toward shore. "As bad as hunting animals with rifles. They killed off all the animals with guns, now they're fishing out the seas with suits." "Yeah," Tom answered, "might as well buy the fish from the hatcheries as to go after them with a portable sub." They dived under, and worked their way along the bottom toward shore, coming up for air, then diving again, until they were back to the beach. They walked out and dropped on the sand to rest, the sun warm on them. "Notice the water?" Tom asked. "Yeah," Bart said, "no waves. Calm as hell. Can't be waves without a moon to pull them." "Doesn't seem to be as salty as the seas at home, either," Tom said. "Yeah, I noticed that too. Must not be as much salt in the ground as at home." "Could be it's a young planet that hasn't had much time to wash it out of the ground, too," Tom said. They rested in silence for a few minutes, the only sound all about them was the wind blowing across the empty land. Then Bart jumped to his feet and started pulling on his clothes. "Come on, Tom," he said, "Let's take a look around while it's still light." After they dressed, Bart led the way along the strip of red sand towards the ridge. The tangled mass of yellow-green vegetation grew right down to the strip of red sand, and in some places, grew right over it to stop at the sea. "I'll be darned," Tom said, stopping at the edge of the plants. The ferns covered the ground solidly; small ones, medium ones, big ones. He crashed back into the thicker growth and kicked some of it aside with his boot. The cloud of dust choked him for a minute. Bart came crashing in to Tom. "What you got?" "Look," Tom said. "All these dead ferns underneath, then just the sand. They haven't decayed." He searched under the dead growth. "The dead ones just fall down underneath and the live ones just grow on top. There's not only no life here, but no decay either. right." "Don't ask me," Bart said. "Come on, let's look from that ridge." They followed the sand around the impassable vegetation to the ridge and scrambled a little way up the barren red rocks. As far as they could see over the flat land, it was covered with the sickly yellow-green of the ferns. They looked out and rested, then noting the sun was getting close to the horizon, they made their way back to the huge grey splotched aluminum hulk of their ship. As Tom was about to follow Bart up the ladder, he noticed a solitary figure sitting at the edge of the sea. "Come.to chow." His voice echoed in the quiet. The figure waved and Tom turned back to join him. He sat down on a small boulder near tiny pipe. against a rock, and gazing dreamily out to sea. He didn't notice Tom. on his pipe. Tom. "Oh, hi, Tom. I didn't knowyou'd come out." "You wouldn't," Tom laughed, "not in that daydream. Thinking of some gal back home?" "Find anything interesting?" "Just a lot of rock and ferns," he answered. "Notice how the dead plants just pack under and don't decay?" Willie asked. "Yeah," Tom puffed his pipe. "Looks like your idea of seeds drifting through space is as good as any to explain it. Sure is an odd place. Full grown plants, but no decay and no sign of evolution." "This is a wonderful place," against the rock. "I'd like to stay here for ten years." "Why?" Tom asked. The red of the sunset was fading from the high clouds, turning them dark grey. smiled at him. "This is the quietest place I've ever been in. Does something to you." "You should have been a colonist," Tom said, "then you could live on a place like this and farm it." answered. "I'm saving my pay to buy a charter and I'm going to buy a place like this." Tom blew out a cloud of smoke. Seems like every guy working on crowded Earth had the same dream. A little farm on a distant planet. But few of them ever did anything about it. It was a nice dream to relieve the monotony of working; but a hell of a lot of hard work if you actually did it. "I've even got seeds I saved when I was working on the truck farms to himself than Tom, "I saved them from some of the biggest and heaviest producing plants. I've got tomatoes, beans, corn, squash. They'll make a fine beginning." the safety and comfort of living that was found only in the crowded cities of Earth. "Think you'd like the loneliness of farming?" he asked. "There's nothing I'd like more. That's why I started star mapping, to get out of the mobs. That's why I'm out here." "Dinner's on," Pudge called from the ship. Tom knocked the ashes out of his pipe. "Let's eat." He led the way to the ship. preciative silence, for Pudge had spread a feast of celebration. When the last of the unaccustomed delicacies was gone, they pushed their plates away. "Boy," Bart grunted out as he lit his pipe, "I haven't eaten like that since the last time I was hunting. Say, Tom, what say you and I go fishing on the Florida coast when we get back. We can get a fish a day down there." "We'll do that," Tom said without conviction. He knew when they got back they would go their different ways in the eternal quest of spacemen back home. "I'm due to get a bigger ship when I get back," Bart said expansively, "and I'm sure going to have Pudge for my cook. How about you, Tom? You're due to step up, now. Want to be my navigator?" "Sure," Tom said, surprised. "We'll really do some star mapping," Bart said. "With a bigger and newer ship, we can go clear to the end of the galaxy. Who knows what we'll find for tRe Astral Service." "Am I going to be retired as your First Mate?" trying to look bright and happy, but even through the happy haze, Tom could see he looked tired and depressed. The wine hadn't done a thing for him, and his dinner was only half eaten. Bart had looked down at his tion. He knocked out the ashes of his pipe and tossed it on the table. eye. "I was going to save it until we got back, but since you asked, I'm sending you back for a checkup when we get in. You can't seem to do a darn thing anymore, without having somebody doublecheck it. Tom and I have had to navigate the ship most of this trip, when you were supposed to do it. There's no place out here for a man that can't do his job. It puts too much on the others. I think you need a long rest or something." blinking his eyes rapidly. Then he lurched to the door, his chair spinning behind him. Pudge got up and went to the galley. "What the hell did you do that for?" Tom asked Bart. "Why didn't you kid him along and give it to him easy when we got back. It would have been easier on his feelings." "That's not my way," Bart said. "He asked me and I gave it to him straight. He's no good out here anymore. In fact, he's dangerous. If something should come up that needs quick action, we'd all be wiped out by the time he called me." "Okay," Tom said. "It was honest, and it was truthful. But it sure as hell hurt him. I'm going to see him and try to ease it over." "You'll be a good first mate, Tom," Bart said. "But don't baby the crew too much. They've either got it or they haven't." Tom went down the narrow pasknocked on the door. When he didn't get an answer, he opened the with Jiis face to the wall. He didn't move as Tom sat in the chair. got company. I come in to shoot the breeze with you." "I'm sorry, Tom. I hate Bart's guts. He's always so goddam right." Willie clasped his hands behind his head on the pillow, and stared at the ceiling. "He'll wash me out of this job and then what will I do? I've failed at everything else I've tried to do. It's the people, Tom. I can't do anything in front of people. What am I going to do when they ground me? I can't stand the crowds of people on Earth." He rolled over against the wall. Tom worked his big knuckled long fingers together. "Maybe it won't amount to anything. The brass will just put you on another ship." "Not if he puts in that report," the wall. Tom sat there. There was noth"Well, I'll see you on the morning." He got up. "Maybe we can go for didn't answer, he went out and carefully shut the door behind him. In his own bunk, he tried to think of something else, but the problem restless time. Then it was morning and the clock was chiming. Pudge came in to the table where Tom and Bart were waiting for breakfast. "Some one's been in the stores. A couple of cases of emergency rations are missing. It must have been in the night." "What the hell," Bart said, jumping up. "In the stores?" ting up. "Who cares," Bart said. "There's no one on this planet but us. Who'd get into our stores? Or what?" "That's what I mean," Tom said Bart gave him a startled glance, He wasn't there. They went through the ship. They dropped out of the lock, one after the other, into the blinding sunlight and "We'd better find him before he gets too far," Tom said. "I've got a hunch he's not coming back. That's why the food." "I'll wring the little coward's neck," Bart said as he led the way along the one trail of footprints they had all made to the sand by the sea. They scattered out, calling and looking. Tom, on a hunch, headed for the shoulder of the mountain that jutted out in the sea, while Bart and Pudge went the other way. blue sky when Tom at last came around the point to the little cove a stream had made in the side of the mountain. He walked up the narrow sandy bank between the red cliffs until a short way in, he found the cases of food and a pile of blankets. His yell echoed off the red cliffs several times before he top of the cliff twenty feet above him. "Come on back to the ship, Wilwas just out for a walk. "We're going to blast off this afternoon. Got to head home." said. "I'm staying here." "Be reasonable," Tom shouted, "you can't stay here. Come on back to the ship." "I'm going to live here. I'm go"What?" Tom's voice was unbelieving. repeated. "Tom, give me your word you won't force me to go back and I'll come down so we can talk." "O.K.," Tom said, "you have my word." slid down the cliff in a shower of loose rock and dirt. Tom began, "how are you going to live, to eat?" dreamily. "I'll have a real farm." He waved vaguely at the ferns. "Look at the stuff grow. The climate is ideal. I'll build a hut and farm enough to eat." another angle. "There are no other people here. What'll you do if you get sick or need help?" "I won't get sick and I won't why I want to stay here, 'cause there aren't any people. I can have a thousand acres all to myself. I can stake out a whole square mile and live right in the middle of it." He laughed like a little kid. "Tom, this is what I've wanted all my life. Why should I go back to Earth and then try to come back later, I'm staying here, now." Tom had the feeling he was trying to argue with an ostrich with its head in the sand. What would when the emergency rations were for a dream, but he didn't know it. see, disregarding everything else. Arguing was useless. The only way was to carry him back. "I'll go back and tell Bart. But I'll get him to hold the ship until tomorrow if you should change your mind." Tom." He held out his hand. "You've been a swell guy." Tom took the hand and shook it. someday, to see how you're making out." He started back down the narrow beach. Along the way, he decided that they would have to Earth for hospitalization. Coming back with Bart wouldn't be breaking his word. That had only been Bart heard Tom's report in his usual way. "Let's go' was his only comment. They climbed up the crumbling red rock and followed the edge of the cliff. They climbed over the small boulders, around the huge ones, endlessly finding the way blocked, but each time going back a little and by going around, finding a new way that was clear. The sun was halfway to the western horizon when they stopped to rest on a pile of small boulders near the top. Tom leaned back against the rock behind him. A trickle of sweat ran down his ribs from his armpit under his coveralls. Bart snorted through his nose. "It'll be dark soon." He wiped his arm across his forehead, the sweat making a dark stain on the sleeve. for this when we get him back to Earth. He must be crazy or something." "My God," Tom said. "Is that finally dawning on you?" Bart looked up at Tom, his dark brown eyes small in his broad sweat-streaked face. As he continued to stare at Tom without saying anything, Tom felt the stir of annoyance, then the beginning of hot tempered anger. They sat and waited, looking for the movement himself. Nothing stirred in the yellow-green ferns below. After an hour of watching, Bart got to his feet. "He's holed up somewhere and pulled the hole in after him. Let's get down there and drag him out." He started back down the ridge the way they had come up. Halfway down, as they stopped for a breather, Tom noted the height of the sun. It was going to be dark before they could work their way back to the ship. A low bank of rolling grey clouds lay all along the straight horizon line of the sea; as the sun sank behind the clouds, it turned the edges of them to fiery red. Bart hurried down the ridge, watching only for a glimpse of Willie, but Tom looked at the sunset occasionally, trying to store up the memory of the color for the months ahead. As they reached the stream cliff, Tom stopped Bart. "Bart, I've got an idea. It's alheaded back to get to the ship before it's too dark to find our way. He's probably sitting on a rock, watching the sunset and daydreaming. Let's look on the edge of this little cliff where it ends at the sea." "O.K.," Bart said, leading the way. The only light left was the reflected red light of the clouds that made long dark shadows behind the rocks. They came around the rocks, onto the cliff point overlooking the sea and the cove, and there was big rock, his chin resting on his cupped hands, gazing dreamily out to sea. for him. then he was up and sliding down the loose rock into the shadowy cove below. "Grab him, Tom," Bart shouted as he went sliding and falling down, the loose rock after him. Tom jumped down the rocks to the bottom and slid to a stop, the loose rocks rolling down around ferns with only his head and shoulders showing. Bart had the automatic pistol out crazy fool, or I'll shoot," he shouted, his voice echoing off the ferns more desperately. Bart raised the automatic and fired a burst of shots, the sharp explosions echoing shatteringly around them. Tom made a flying tackle and smashed into Bart. They went down in the ferns, struggling for the gun, until Bart managed to roll and push his way to his feet. "Knock it off," Bart shouted. "What the hell are you trying to do?" Tom shouted back as he got to his feet. "I wasn't trying to kill him," Bart snapped. "I was trying to scare him into stopping so we could grab him, now he's got clean away in those damn ferns." He waved a hand helplessly at the mass of dark vege"Now we'll have to spend days hunting for that lunatic. Next time let me handle it. I'm the captain of this expedition." "Okay," Tom said angrily, "but let's catch him, not kill him. He hasn't done anything, just wants to be alone, that's all." "He's deserted," Bart said, "and he signed articles, so that's a crime. How the hell am I going to explain a lost crewman when we go back. And on my first trip as captain." "That's your worry," Tom said. "He's colonizing, not deserting." "You should have been a lawyer," Bart said as he put the gun in his holster. "But this isn't getting that screwball aboard." He groped in the pocket of his coveralls and pulled out a small packlight. The white searchbeam lit up the ferns around them with glaring brightness. "Come on, let's try to find him." He led the way into the ferns. They hunted through the ferns, forcing their way every step. The searchbeam was only good for a few feet in the dense growth. They ferns they could almost step on him and not know it. At last Bart gave up. "Let's go back to the ship. We'll come back in the morning, when it's light." Following him along the beach toward the ship, Tom had the feeling that in the morning might be too the burst of shots, or he might take off in the ferns so far they never could find him. T OM rolled out of his bunk at the first bell, wincing at his sore muscles. After getting the first aid kit from the bathroom, he quietly walked down the narrow passageway and out into the bright sunlight. As he walked through the grey ash to the strip of red sand, the quiet was like a blanket over everything, after the soft hum of the living ship. The breeze blew softly against his face, hummed past his ears, and rustled the ferns. The sea was glass smooth as far as he could see across its surface, smooth right up to where the water turned deep green as it got shallower. He could understand why a perfect place for anyone who loved solitude and there was probably none like it in the whole system. He thought of how a man could live here, with no one to bother him, nothing to buy, no need to do any more than just produce enough food to live. A little shack to keep off the rain, a little field to grow food. But there would be no one to talk to, no one to share experiences and troubles and little triumps, no one to laugh with, no challenge to overcome, no excitement. "Not for me," Tom said aloud, and his voice was strange in the quiet. "Boy, this place puts a spell on a guy, almost hypnotizes him." He laughed aloud. "Even got me talking to myself." He hurried on to Then he came to the little cove pile of food and blankets was still was lying half in the pool of water. As Tom crunched over the sand opened his eyes. "Hi, Tom," he said faintly. "Fm glad you came alone." looked at the thin chest with the small neat hole low on the left side. "So he did shoot you, didn't he." He opened the first aid kit. "I'll get you back to the ship and you'll be O.K." He started putting a dressing on the wound. bright blue eyes. "Never mind, Tom. I just got to stay here in spite of the Captain." His voice was so low Tom had to lean closer to hear winced with the pain. Tom finished the bandage. He knew there was nothing he could a doctor could help him. But there were no doctors here. He wanted to do something for him to make him more comfortable. He started to put an arm under him to move him out of the pool. "I'll get you out of this water," he said. me here. I crawled all night to get here. I want to die in this pool." "In the water?" Tom said in surprise. "Yes, in the water. Don't you understand? I thought you would." He stared up at the white tracing of the clouds in the sky. Tom waited, silently. He knelt there, the sun burning hot on his back. "I had to stay. Didn't you feel anything about this planet, Tom?" Tom thought a moment. "I did feel a little," he admitted. "On the way over here. Like it would be a nice place to live." you see. Here was this planet, ripe for life, but without life. Then the seeds of the ferns got blown off Earth and drifted here. But it needed more, it needed animal life to complete the cycle. "Then we got 'blown off Earth.' Bart for the glory, Pudge for the ride, you for the excitement, and me -- me -- because I had to, I guess. Because I couldn't stand it back there. Seeds, all four of us, and not knowing it. That's why we had to land. That's why one of us had to stay and I guess it was just me. Now the rest of you can go back to Earth." time. Then he lay back exhausted. "Tom," he whispered, "look at the edge of my camp. In the ferns." Tom walked over to the edge of the camp. He looked at the yellowmeant. Then he saw it. The faint steaming from the packed dead ferns under the growing ones, the spreading dark spot, the already darker green of the plants growing around the spot. decay with him, as well as the seeds of life. The dead plants were decaying for the first time on this planet. This spot would spread until the whole planet was covered with dark green; and life would be as it was on Earth. stood looking down at him. Then he lids. He thought of moving him, digging him a shallow grave. But kneeling there in the silent cove, he had the hunch that maybe there to stay in the little pool. The stream came down off the ridge through stayed there, the bacteria of his body would live on, and be washed into the sea. The water was warm and there were no enemies to destroy them and there were plants to right. Maybe he was the seed of life coming to this planet; and in a shores. Tom straightened up. He took a deep breath and looked around the Bart put in the log and what spacemen will call it as they go by, will be two different things. Or did you know that in your heart, too." He was silent a moment. "So long, He turned and crunched along the sand towards the ship.    complete their collections. Below are the issues available. Send # cents for each copy ordered. Address: IF Magazine, Kingston, New York. Vol. #, No. #, Morch # Vol. #, No. #, July # Vol. #, No. #, Sept. # Vol. #, No. #, March # Vol. # , No. #, July # Vol. # , No. #, Sept. # Vol. # , No. #, Nov. # Vol. #, No. #, Jan. # Vol. #, No. #, March # Vol. #, No. #, April # Vol. #, No. #, June # Vol. #, No. #, July # Vol. #, No. #, Aug. # Vol. #, No. #, Sept. # Vol. # , No. #, Oct. # Vol. #, No. #, Nov. # Vol. # , No. #, Dec. # Vol. # , No. #, Jan. # eleven o'clock, Mrs. Edna Berthelson was ready to make her little trip. Although it was a weekly affair, consuming four hours of her valuable business time, she made the profitable trip alone, preserving for herself the integrity of her find. Because that was what it was. A find, a stroke of incredible luck. There was nothing else like it, and she had been in business fiftythree years. More, if the years in her father's store were counted -- but they didn't really count. That had been for the experience (her father made that clear) ; no pay was involved. But it gave her the understanding of business, the feel of operating a small country store, dusting pencils and unwrapping fly paper and serving up dried beans and chasing the cat out of the cracker barrel where he liked to sleep. Now the store was old, and so was she. The big heavy-set, blackbrowed man who was her father had died long ago; her own children and grandchildren had been spawned, had Crept out over the world, were everywhere. One by one they had appeared, lived in Walnut Creek, sweated through the dry, sun-baked summers, and then gone on, leaving one by one as they had come. She and the store sagged and settled a little more each year; became a little more frail and stern and grim. A little more themselves. That morning very early Jackie said: "Grandmaw, where are you going?" Although he knew, of course, where she was going. She was going out in her truck as she always did; this was the Saturday trip. But he liked to ask; he was pleased by the stability of the answer. He liked having it always the same. To another question there was another unvarying answer, but this one didn't please him so much. It came in answer to the question: "Can I come along?" The answer to that was always no. Edna Berthelson laboriously carried packages and boxes from the back of the store to the rusty, upright pick-up truck. Dust lay over the truck; its red-metal sides were bent and corroded. The motor was already on; it was wheezing and heating up in the mid-day sun. A few drab chickens pecked in the dust around its wheels. Under the porch of the store a plump white shaggy sheep squatted, its face vapid, indolent, indifferently watching the activity of the day. Cars and trucks rolled along Mount Diablo Boulevard. Along Lafayette Avenue a few shoppers strolled, farmers and their wives, petty businessmen, farm hands, some city women in their gaudy slacks and print shirts, sandals, bandanas. In the front of the store the radio tinnily played popular songs. "I asked you a question," Jackie said righteously. "I asked you where you're going." Mrs. Berthelson bent stiffly over to lift the last armload of boxes. Most of the loading had been done the night before by Arnie the Swede, the hulking white-haired hired-man who did the heavy work around the store. "What?" she murmured vaguely, her gray, wrinkled face twisting with concentration. "You know perfectly well where I'm going." Jackie trailed plaintively after her, as she re-entered the store to look for her order book. "Can I come? Please, can I come along? You never let me come -- you never let anybody come." "Of course not," Mrs. Berthelson said sharply. "It's nobody's business." "But I want to come along," Jackie explained. Slyly, the little old woman turned her gray head and peered back at him, a worn, colorless bird taking in a world perfectly understood. "So does everybody else." Thin lips twitching in a secret smile, Mrs. Berthelson said softly: "But nobody can." Jackie didn't like the sound of that. Sullenly, he retired to a corner, hands stuck deep in the pockets of his jeans, not taking part in something that was denied him, not approving of something in which he could not share. Mrs. Berthelson ignored him. She pulled her frayed blue sweater around her thin shoulders, located her sunglasses, pulled the screen door shut after her, and strode briskly to the truck. Getting the truck into gear was an intricate process. For a time she sat tugging crossly at the shift, pumping the clutch up and down, waiting impatiently for the teeth to fall into place. At last, screeching and chattering, the gears meshed; the truck leaped a little, and Mrs. Berthelson gunned the motor and released the hand brake. As the truck roared jerkily down the driveway, Jackie detached himself from the shade by the house and followed along after it. His mother was nowhere in sight. Only the dozing sheep and the two scratching chickens were visible. Even Arnie the Swede was gone, probably getting a cold coke. Now was a fine time. Now was the best time he had ever had. And it was going to be sooner or later anyhow, because he was determined to come along. Grabbing hold of the tailboard of the truck, Jackie hoisted himself up and landed face-down on the tightly-packed heaps of packages and boxes. Under him the truck bounced and bumped. Jackie hung on for dear life; clutching at the boxes he pulled his legs under him, crouched down, and desperately sought to keep from being flung off. Gradually the truck righted itself, and the torque diminished. He breathed a sigh of relief and settled gratefully down. He was on his way. He was along, finally. Accompanying Mrs. Berthelson on her secret weekly trip, her strange covert enterprise from which -- he had heard -- she made a fabulous profit. A trip which nobody understood, and which he knew, in the deep recesses of his child's mind, was something awesome and wonderful, something that would be well worth the trouble. He had hoped fervently that she wouldn't stop to check her load along the way. man prepared himself a cup of "coffee". First, he carried a tin cup of roasted grain over to the gasoline drum the colony used as a mixing bowl. Dumping it in, he hurried to add a handful of chicory and a few fragments of dried bran. Dirt-stained hands trembling, he managed to get a fire started among the ashes and coals under the pitted metal grate. He set a pan of tepid water on the flames and searched for a spoon. "What are you up to?" his wife demanded from behind him. "Uh," Tellman muttered. Nervously, he edged between Glady's and the meal. "Just fooling around." In spite of himself, his voice took on a nagging whine. "I have a right to fix myself something, don't I? As much right as anybody else." "You ought to be over helping." "I was.I wrenched something in my back." The wiry middleaged man ducked uneasily away from his wife; tugging at the remains of his soiled white shirt, he retreated toward the door of the shack. "Damn it, a person has to rest, sometimes." "Rest when we get there." Gladys wearily brushed back her thick dark-blonde hair. "Suppose everybody was like you." Tellman flushed resentfully. "Who plotted our trajectory? Who's done all the navigation work?" A faint ironic smile touched his wife's chapped lips. "We'll see how your charts work out," she said. "Then we'll talk about it." Enraged, Tellman plunged out of the shack, into the blinding lateafternoon sunlight. He hated the sun, the sterile white glare that began at five in the morning and lasted until nine in the evening. The Big Blast had sizzled the water vapor from the air; the sun beat down pitilessly, sparing nobody. But there were few left to care. To his right was the cluster of shacks that made up the camp. An eclectic hodge-podge of boards, sheets of tin, wire and tar paper, upright concrete blocks, anything and everything dragged from the San Francisco ruins, forty miles west. Cloth blankets flapped dismally in doorways, protection against the vast hosts of insects that swept across the camp site from time to time. Birds, the natural enemy of insects, were gone. Tellman hadn't seen a bird in two years -- and he didn't expect to see one again. Beyond the camp began the eternal dead black ash, the charred face of the world, without features, without life. The camp had been set up in a natural hollow. One side was sheltered by the tumbled ruins of what had once been a minor mountain range. The concussion of the blast had burst the towering cliffs; rock had cascaded into the valley for days. After San Francisco had been fired out of existence, survivors had crept into the heaps of boulders, looking for a place to hide from the sun. That was the hardest part : the unshielded sun. Not the insects, not the radio-active clouds of ash, not the flashing white fury of the blasts, but the sun. More people had died of thirst and dehydration and blind insanity than from toxic poisons. From his breast pocket, Tellman got a precious package of cigarettes. Shakily, he lit up. His thin, clawlike hands, were trembling, partly from fatigue, partly from rage and tension. How he hated the camp. He loathed everybody in it, his wife included. Were they worth saving? He doubted it. Most of them were barbarians, already; what did it matter if they got the ship off or not? He was sweating away his mind and life, trying to save them. The hell with them. But then, his own safety was involved with theirs. He stalked stifflegged over to where Barnes and Masterson stood talking. "How's it coming?" he demanded gruffly. "Fine," Barnes answered. "It won't be long, now." "One more load," Masterson said. His heavy features twitched uneasily. "I hope nothing gets fouled up. She ought to be here any minute." Tellman loathed the sweaty, animal-like scent that rolled from Masterson's beefy body. Their situation wasn't an excuse to creep around filthy as a pig... on Venus, things would be different. Masterson was useful, now; he was an experienced mechanic, invaluable in servicing the turbine and jets of the ship. But when the ship had landed and been pillaged... Satisfied, Tellman brooded over the re-establishment of the rightful order. The hierarchy had collapsed in the ruins of the cities, but it would be back strong as ever. Take Flannery, for example. Flannery was nothing but a foulmouthed shantyIrish stevedor... but he was in charge of loading the ship, the greatest job at the moment. Flannery was top dog, for the time being... but that would change. It had to change. Consoled, Tellman strolled away from Barnes and Masterson, over to the ship itself. The ship was huge. Across its muzzle the stenciled identification still remained, not yet totally obliterated by drifting ash and the searing heat of the sun. Originally, it had been a highvelocity "massive retaliation" weapon, loaded with an H-warhead, ready to carry indiscriminate death to the enemy. The projectile had never been launched. Soviet toxic crystals had blown quietly into the windows and doors of the local command barracks. When launching day arrived, there was no crew to send it off. But it didn't matter -- there was no enemy, either. The rocket had stood on its buttocks for months... it was still there when the first refugees straggled into the shelter of the demolished mountains. "Nice, isn't it?" Patricia Shelby said. She glanced up from her work and smiled blearily at Tellman. Her small, pretty face was streaked with fatigue and eye-strain. "Sort of like the trylon at the New York World's Fair." "My God," Tellman said, "you remember that?" "I was only eight," Patricia answered. In the shadow of the ship she was carefully checking the automatic relays that would maintain the air, temperature, and humidity of the ship. "But I'll never forget it. Maybe I was a precog -- when I saw it sticking up I knew someday it would mean a lot to everybody." "A lot to the twenty of us Tellman corrected. Suddenly he offered her the remains of his cigarette. "Here -- you look like you could use it." "Thanks." Patricia continued with her work, the cigarette between her lips. "I'm almost done -- Boy, some of these relays are tiny. Just think." She held up a microscopic wafer of transparent plastic. "While we're all out cold, this makes the difference between life and death." A strange, awed look crept into her dark-blue eyes. "To the human race." Tellman guffawed. "You and Flannery. He's always spouting idealistic twaddle." Professor John Crowley, once head of the history department at Stanford, now the nominal leader of the colony, sat with Flannery and Jean Dobbs, examining the suppurating arm of a ten-year-old boy. "Radiation," Crowley was saying emphatically. "The over-all level is rising daily. It's settling ash that does it. If we don't get out soon, we're done." "It's not radiation," Flannery corrected in his ultimately-certain voice. "It's toxic crystalline poisoning; that stuff's knee-deep up in the hills. He's been playing around up there." "Is that so?" Jean Dobbs demanded. The boy nodded his head not daring to look at her. "You're right," she said to Flannery. "Put some salve on it," Flannery said. "And hope he'll live. Outside of sulfathiazole there's not much we have." He glanced at his watch, suddenly tense. "Unless she brings "If she doesn't bring it today," Crowley said, "she'll never bring it. This is the last load ; as soon as it's stored, we're taking off." Rubbing his hands, Flannery suddenly bellowed: "Then get out the money!" Crowley grinned. "Right." He fumbled in one of the steel storage lockers and yanked out a handful of paper bills. Holding a sheaf of bills up to Tellman he fanned them out invitingly. "Take your pick. Take them all." Nervously, Tellman said, "Be careful with that. She's probably raised the price on everything, again." "We've got plenty." Flannery took some and stuffed it into a partly-filled load being wheeled by, on its way to the ship. "There's money blowing all over the world, along with the ash and particles of bone. On Venus we won't need it -- she might as well have it all." On Venus, Tellman thought, savagely, things would revert to their legitimate order -- with Flannery digging sewers where he belonged. "What's she bringing mostly?" he asked Crowley and Jean Dobbs, ignoring Flannery. "What's the last load made up of?" "Comic books," Flannery said dreamily, wiping perspiration from his balding forehead ; he was a lean, tall, dark-haired young man. "And harmonicas." Crowley winked at him. "Uke picks, so we can lie in our hammocks all day, strumming Someone's in the Kitchen with Dinah." "And swizzle sticks," Flannery v reminded him. "In order that we may all the more properly flatten the bubbles of our vintage '# champagne." Tellman boiled. "You -- degenerate!" Crowley and Flannery roared with laughter, and Tellman stalked off, smoldering under this new humiliation. What kind of morons and lunatics were they? Joking at a time like this... he peered miserably, almost accusingly, at the ship. Was this the kind of world they were going to found? In the pitiless white-hot sun, the huge ship shimmered and glowed. A vast upright tube of alloy and protective fiber mesh rising up above the tumble of wretched shacks. One more load, and they were off. One more truckful of supplies from their only source, the meager trickle of uncontaminated goods that meant the difference between life and death. Praying that nothing would go wrong, Tellman turned to await the arrival of Mrs. Edna Berthelson and her battered red-pick-up truck.Their fragile umbilical cord, connecting them with the opulent, undamaged past. groves of lush apricot trees. Bees and flies buzzed sleepily among the rotting fruit scattered over the soil; every now and then a roadside stand appeared, operated by somnambulistic children. In driveways stood parked Buicks and Oldsmobiles. Rural dogs wandered here and there. At one intersection stood a swank tavern, its neon sign blinking on and off, ghostly pale in the mid-morning sun. Mrs. Edna Berthelson glared hostilely at the tavern, and at the cars parked around it. City people were moving out into the valley, cutting down the old oak trees, the ancient fruit orchards, setting up suburban homes, stopping in the middle of the day for a whiskey sour and then driving cheerfully on. Driving at seventy-five miles an hour in their swept-back Chryslers. A column of cars that had piled up behind her truck suddenly burst forth and swung past her. She let them go, stony-faced, indifferent. Served them right for being in such a hurry. If she always hurried like that, she would never have had time to pay attention to that odd ability she had found in her introspective, lonely drives; never have discovered that she could look "ahead", never have discovered that hole in the warp of time which enabled her to trade so easily at her own exorbitant prices. Let them hurry if they wanted. The heavy load in the back of the truck jogged rhythmically. The motor wheezed. Against the back window a half-dead fly buzzed. Jackie lay stretched out among the cartons and boxes, enjoying the ride, gazing complacently at the apricot trees and cars. Against the hot sky the peak of Mount Diablo rose, blue and white, an expanse of cold rock. Trails of mist clung to the peak; Mount Diablo went a long way up. He made a face at a dog standing indolently at the side of the road, waiting to cross. He waved gaily at a Pacific Telephone Co. repairman, stringing wire from a huge reel. Abruptly the truck turned off the state highway and onto a black-surfaced side road. Now there were fewer cars. The truck began to climb... the rich orchards fell behind and gave way to flat brown fields. A dilapidated farm house lay to the right; he watched it with interest, wondering how old it was. When it was out of sight, no other man-made structures followed. The fields became unkempt. Broken, sagging fences were visible occasionally. Torn signs, no longer legible. The truck was approaching the base of Mount Diablo... almost nobody came this way. Idly, the boy wondered why Mrs. Berthelson's little trip took her in this direction. Nobody lived here; suddenly there were no fields, only scrub grass and bushes, wild countryside, the tumbled slope of the mountain. A rabbit hopped skillfully across the half-decayed road. Rolling hills, a broad expanse of trees and strewn boulders... there was nothing here but a State fire tower, and maybe a water shed. And an abandoned picnic area, once maintained by the State, now forgotten. An edge of fear touched the boy. No customers lived out this way... he had been positive the battered red pick-up truck would head directly into town, take him and the load to San Francisco or Oakland or Berkeley, a city where he could get out and run around, see interesting sights. There was nothing here, only abandoned emptiness, silent and foreboding. In the shadow of the mountain, the air was chill. He shivered. All at once he wished he hadn't come. Mrs. Berthelson slowed the truck and shifted noisily into low. With a roar and an explosive belch of exhaust gasses, the truck crept up a steep ascent, among jagged boulders, ominous and sharp. Somewhere far off a bird cried shrilly; Jackie listened to its thin sounds echoing dismally away and wondered how he could attract his grandmother's attention. It would be nice to be in front, in the cabin. It would be nice -- And then he noticed it. At first he didn't believe it... but he had to believe it. Under him, the truck was beginning to fade away. It faded slowly, almost imperceptibly. Dimmer and dimmer the truck grew; its rusty red sides became gray, then colorless. The black road was visible underneath. In wild panic, the boy clutched at the piles of boxes. His hands passed through them; he was riding precariously on an uneven sea of dim shapes, among almost invisible phantoms. He lurched and slid down. Now -- hideously -- he was suspended momentarily half-way through the truck, just above the tail pipe. Groping desperately, he struggled to catch hold of the boxes directly above him. "Help!" he shouted. His voice echoed around him; it was the only sound... the roar of the truck was fading. For a moment he clutched at the retreating shape of the truck; then, gently, gradually, the last image of the truck faded, and with a sickening crunch, the boy dropped to the road. The impact sent him rolling into the dry weeds beyond the drainage ditch. Stunned, dazed with disbelief and pain, he lay gasping, trying feebly to pull himself up. There was only silence; the truck, Mrs. Berthelson, had vanished. He was totally alone. He closed his eyes and lay back, stupefied with fright. Sometime later, probably not much later, he was aroused by the squeal of brakes. A dirty, orange State maintenance truck had lurched to a stop; two men in khaki work clothes were climbing down and hurrying over. "What's the matter?" one yelled at him. They grabbed him up, faces serious and alarmed. "What are you doing here?" "Fell," he muttered. "Off the truck." "What truck?" they demanded. "How?" He couldn't tell them. All he knew was that Mrs. Berthelson had gone. He hadn't made it, after all. Once again, she was making her trip alone. He would never know' where she went; he would never find out who her customers were. of the truck, Mrs. Berthelson was conscious that the transition had taken place. Vaguely, she was aware that the rolling brown fields, rocks and green scrub bushes, had faded out. The first time she had gone "ahead" she had found the old truck floundering in a sea of black ash. She had been so excited by her discovery that day that she had neglected to "scan" conditions on the other side of the hole. She had known there were customers... and dashed headlong through the warp to get there first. She smiled complacently... she needn't have hurried, there was no competition here. In fact, the customers were so eager to deal with her, they had done virtually everything in their power to make things easier for her. The men had built a crude strip of road out into the ash, a sort of wooden platform onto which the truck now rolled. She had learned the exact moment to "go ahead"; it was the instant that the truck passed the drainage culvert a quarter mile inside the State park. Here, "ahead", the culvert also existed... but there was little left of it, only a vague jumble of shattered stone. And the road was utterly buried. Under the wheels of the truck the rough boards thumped and banged. It would be bad if she had a flat tire... but some of them could fix it. They were always working; one little additional task wouldn't make much difference. She could see them, now; they stood at the end of the wooden platform, waiting impatiently for her. Beyond them was their jumble of crude, smelly shacks, and beyond that, their ship. A lot she cared about their ship. She knew what it was : stolen Army property. Setting her bony hand rigidly around the gearshift knob, she threw the truck into neutral and coasted to a stop. As the men approached, she began pulling on the hand brake. "Afternoon," Professor Crowley muttered, his eyes sharp and keen as he peered eagerly into the back of the truck. Mrs. Berthelson grunted a noncommittal answer. She didn't like any of them... dirty men, smelling of sweat and fear, their bodies and clothes streaked with grime, and the ancient coating of desperation that never seemed to leave them. Like awed, pitiful children they clustered around the truck, poking hopefully at the packages, already beginning to pluck them out onto the black ground. "Here, now," she said sharply. "You leave those alone." Their hands darted back as if seared. Mrs. Berthelson sternly climbed from the truck, grabbed up her inventory sheet, and plodded up to Crowley. "You just wait," she told him. "Those have to be checked off." He nodded, glanced at Masterson, licked his dry lips, and waited. They all waited. It had always been that way; they knew, and she knew, that there was no other way they could get their supplies. And if they didn't get their supplies, their food and medicine and clothing and instruments and tools and raw materials, they wouldn't be able to leave in their ship. In this world, in the "ahead", such things didn't exist. At least, not so anybody could use them. A cursory glance had told her that; she could see the ruin with her own eyes. They hadn't taken very good care of their world. They had wasted it all, turned it into black ash and ruin. Well, it was their business, not hers. She had never been much interested in the relationship between their world and hers. She was content to know that both existed, and that she could go from one to the other and back. And she was the only one who knew how. Several times, people from this world, members of this group, had tried to go "back there" with her. It had always failed. As she made the transition, they were left behind. It was her power, her faculty. Not a shared faculty -- she was glad of that. And for a person in business, quite a valuable faculty. "All right," she said crisply. Standing where she could keep her eye on them, she began checking off each box as it was carried from the truck. Her routine was exact and certain; it was a part of her life. As long as she could remember she had transacted business in a distinct way. Her father had taught her how to live in a business world ; she had learned his stern principles and rules. She was following them now. Flannery and Patricia Shelby stood together at one side; Flannery held the money, payment for the delivery. "Well," he said, under his breath, "now we can tell her to go leap in the river." "Are you sure?" Pat asked nervously. "The last load's here." Flannery grinned starkly and ran a trembling hand through his thinning black hair. "Now we can get rolling. With this stuff, the ship's crammed to the gills. We may even have to sit down and eat some of that now " He indicated a bulging paste-board carton of groceries. "Bacon, eggs, milk, real coffee. Maybe we won't shove it in deepfreeze. Maybe we ought to have a last-meal-before-the-flight orgy." Wistfully, Pat said, "It would be nice. It's been a long time since we've had food like that." Masterson strode over. "Let's kill her and boil her in a big kettle. Skinny old witch -- she might make good soup." "In the oven," Flannery corrected. "Some gingerbread, to take along with us." "I wish you wouldn't talk like that," Pat said apprehensively. "She's so -- well, maybe she is a witch. I mean, maybe that's what witches were... old women with strange talents. Like her -- being able to pass through time." "Damn lucky for us," Masterson said briefly. "But she doesn't understand it. Does she? Does she know what she's doing? That she could save us all this by sharing her ability." Does she know what's happened to our world? Flannery considered. "Probably she doesn't know -- or care. A mind like hers, business and profit -- getting exorbitant rates from us, selling this stuff to us at an incredible premium. And the joke is that money's worth nothing to us. If she could see, she'd know that. It's just paper, in this world. But she's caught in a narrow little routine. Business, profit." He shook his head. "A mind like that, a warped, miserable flea-sized mind... and she has that unique talent." "But she can see " Pat persisted. "She can see the ash, the ruin. How can she not know?" Flannery shrugged. "She probably doesn't connect it with her own life. After all, she'll be dead in a couple of years... she won't see the war in her real time. She'll only see it this way, as a region into which she can travel. A sort of travelogue of strange lands. She can enter and leave -- but we're stuck. It must give you a damn fine sense of security to be able to walk out of one world, into another. God, what I'd give to be able to go back with her." "It's been tried," Masterson pointed out. "That lizard-head Tellman tried it. And he came walking back , covered with ash. He said the truck faded out." "Of course it did," Flannery said mildly. "She drove it back to Walnut Creek. Back to #." The unloading had been completed. The members of the colony were toiling up the slope, lugging the cartons to the check-area beneath the ship. Mrs. Berthelson strode over to Flannery, accompanied by Professor Crowley. "Here's the inventory," she said briskly. "A few items couldn't be found. You know, I don't stock all that in my store. I have to send out for most of it." "We know," Flannery said, coldly amused. It would be interesting to see a country store that stocked binocular microscopes, turret lathes, frozen packs of anti-biotics, highfrequency radio transmitters, advanced text books in all fields. "So that's why I have to charge you a little dearer," the old woman continued, the inflexible routine of squeeze. "On items I bring in -- " She examined her inventory, then returned the ten-page typewritten list that Crowley had given her on the previous visit. "Some of these weren't available. I marked them back order. That bunch of metals from those laboratories back East -- they said maybe later." A cunning look slid over the ancient gray eyes. "And they'll be very expensive." "It doesn't matter," Flannery said, handing her the money. "You can cancel all the back orders." At first her face showed nothing. Only a vague inability to understand. "No more shipments Crowley explained. A certain tension faded from them; for the first time, they weren't afraid of her. The old relationship had ended. They weren't dependent on the rusty red truck. They had their shipment; they were ready to leave. "We're taking off," Flannery said, grinning starkly. "We're full up." Comprehension came. "But I placed orders for those things." Her voice was thin, bleak. Without emotion. "They'll be shipped to me. I'll have to pay for them." "Well," Flannery said softly, "isn't that too damn bad." Crowley shot him a warning glance. "Sorry," he said to the old woman. "We can't stick around -- this place is getting hot. We've got to take off." On the withered face, dismay turned to growing wrath. "You ordered those things! You have to take them!" Her shrill voice rose to a screech of fury. "What am I supposed to do with them?" As Flannery framed his bitter answer, Pat Shelby intervened. "Mrs. Berthelson," she said quietly, "you've done a lot for us, even if you wouldn't help us through the hole into your time. And we're very grateful. If it wasn't for you, we couldn't have got together enough supplies. But we really have to go." She reached out her hand to touch the frail shoulder, but the old woman jerked furiously away. "I mean," Pat finished awkwardly, "we can't stay any longer, whether we want to or not. Do you see all that black ash? It's radioactive, and more of it sifts down all the time. The toxic level is rising -- if we stay any longer it'll start destroying us." Mrs. Edna Berthelson stood clutching her inventory list. There was an expression on her face that none of the group had ever seen before. The violent spasm of wrath had vanished; now a cold, chill glaze lay over the aged features. Her eyes were like gray rocks, utterly without feeling. Flannery wasn't impressed. "Here's your loot," he said, thrusting out the handful of bills. "What the hell." He turned to Crowley. "Let's toss in the rest. Let's stuff it down her goddamn throat." "Shut up," Crowley snapped. Flannery sank resentfully back. "Who are you talking to?" "Enough's enough." Crowley, worried and tense, tried to speak to the old woman. "My God, you can't expect us to stay around here forever, can you?" There was no response. Abruptly, the old woman turned and strode silently back to her truck. Masterson and Crowley looked uneasily at each other. "She sure is mad," Masterson said apprehensively. Tellman hurried up, glanced at the old woman getting into her truck, and then bent down to root around in one of the cartons of groceries. Childish greed flushed across his thin face. "Look," he gasped. "Coffee -- fifteen pounds of it. Can we open some? Can we get one tin open, to celebrate?" "Sure," Crowley said tonelessly, his eyes on the truck. With a muffleid roar, the truck turned in a wide arc and rumbled off down the crude platform, toward the ash. It rolled off into the ash, slithered for a short distance, and then faded out. Only the bleak, sun-swept plain of darkness remained. "Coffee ! # Tellman shouted gleefully. He tossed the bright metal can high in the air and clumsily caught it again. "A celebration! Our last night -- last meal on Earth ! # As the red pick-up truck jogged metallically along the road, Mrs. Berthelson scanned "ahead # and saw that the men were telling the truth. Her thin lips writhed; in her mouth an acid taste of bile rose. She had taken it for granted that they would continue to buy -- there was no competition, no other source of supply. But they were leaving. And when they left, there would be no more market. She would never find a market that satisfactory. It was a perfect market; the group was a perfect customer. In the locked box at the back of the store, hidden down under the reserve sacks of grain, was almost two hundred and fifty thousand dollars. A fortune, taken in over the months, received from the imprisoned colony as it toiled to construct its ship. And she had made it possible. She was responsible for letting them get away after all. Because of her short-sightedness, they were able to escape. She hadn't used her head. As she drove back to town she meditated calmly, rationally. It was totally because of her: she was the only one who had possessed the power to bring them their supplies. Without her, they were helpless. Hopefully, she cast about, looking this way and that, peering with her deep inner sense, into the various "aheads # . There was more than one, of course. The "aheads # lay like a pattern of squares, an intricate web of worlds into which she could step, if she cared. But all were empty of what she wanted. All showed bleak plains of black ash, devoid of human habitation. What she wanted was lacking: they were each without customers. The pattern of "aheads # was complex. Sequences were connected like beads on a string; there were chains of "aheads # which formed interwoven links. One step led to the next... but not to alternate chains. Carefully, with great precision, she began the job of searching through each of the chains. There were many of them... a virtual infinity of possible "aheads # . And it was her power to select; she had stepped into that one, the particular chain in which the huddled colony had labored to construct its ship. She had, by entering it, made it manifest. Frozen it into reality. Dredged it up from among the many, from among the multitude of possibilities. Now she needed to dredge another. That particular "ahead # had proven unsatisfactory. The market had petered out. The truck was entering the pleasant town of Walnut Creek, passing bright stores and houses and supermarkets, before she located it. There were so many, and her mind was old... but now she had picked it out. And as soon as she found it, she knew it was the one. Her innate business instinct certified it; the particular "ahead" clicked. Of the possibilities, this one was unique. The ship was well-built, and thoroughly tested. In "ahead" after "ahead" the ship rose, hesitated as automatic machinery locked, and then burst from the jacket of atmosphere, toward the morning star. In a few "aheads", wasted sequences of failure, the ship exploded into white-hot fragments. Those, she ignored; she saw no advantage in that. In a few "aheads" the ship failed to take off at all. The turbines lashed ; exhaust poured out... and the ship remained as it was. But then the men scampered out and began going over the turbines, searching for the faulty parts. So nothing was gained. In later segments along the chain, in subsequent links, the damage was repaired, and the take-off was satisfactorily completed. But one chain was correct. Each element, each link, developed perfectly. The pressure-locks closed, and the ship was sealed. The turbines fired, and the ship, with a shudder, rose from the plain of black ash. Three miles up, the rear jets tore loose. The ship floundered, dropped in a screaming dive, and plunged back toward the Earth. Emergency landing jets, designed for Venus, were frantically thrown on. The ship slowed, hovered for an agonizing instant, and then crashed into the heap of rubble that had been Mount Diablo. There the remains of the ship lay, twisted metal sheets, smoking in the dismal silence. From the ship the men emerged, shaken and mute, to inspect the damage. To begin the miserable, futile task all over again. Collecting supplies, patching the rocket up... the old woman smiled to herself. That was what she wanted. That would do perfectly. And all she had to do -- such a little thing -- was select that sequence when she made her next trip. When she took her little business trip, the following Saturday. the black ash, pawing feebly at a deep gash in his cheek. A broken tooth throbbed. A thick ooze of blood dripped into his mouth, the hot salty taste of his own bodyfluids leaking helplessly out. He tried to move his leg, but there was no sensation. Broken. His mind was too dazed, too bewildered with despair, to comprehend. Somewhere in the half-darkness, Flannery stirred. A woman groaned; scattered among the rocks and buckled sections of the ship lay the injured and dying. An upright shape rose, stumbled, and pitched over. An artificial light flickered. It was Tellman, making his way clumsily over the tattered remains of their world. He gaped foolishly at Crowley; his glasses hung from one ear and part of his lower jaw was missing. Abruptly he collapsed face-forward into a smoking mound of supplies. His skinny body twitched aimlessly. Crowley managed to pull himself to his knees. Masterson was bending over him, saying something again and again. "I'm all right," Crowley rasped. "We're down. Wrecked." "I know." On Masterson's shattered face glittered the first stirrings of hysteria. "Do you think -- " "No," Crowley muttered. "It isn't possible." Masterson began to giggle. Tears streaked the grime of his cheeks; drops of thick moisture dripped down his neck into his charred collar. "She did it. She fixed us. She wants us to stay here." "No," Crowley repeated. He shut out the thought. It couldn't be. It just couldn't. "We'll get away," he said. "We'll assemble the remains -- start over." "She'll be back," Masterson quavered. "She knows we'll be here waiting for her. Customers!" "No," Crowley said. He didn't believe it; he made himself not believe it. "We'll get away. We've got to get away!"     a better standard of living because of a new solar stove which is   now being developed and tested. Experts hail it as a new eco  nomic force, since the use of vegetation and animal dung as fuel,   which is prevalent in many of these areas, has caused soil erosion,   deforestation and cut productivity of the soil by at least one-half.  I Although the idea of a solar cooker is not a new one, this latest I  entry is far more practical than most of the others for several I  reasons. The cooker eliminates the use of parabolic reflectors  I which are very expensive, and has the advantage of retaining heat I  for an hour or more after the sun has set. Preliminary models I I have developed temperatures of # degrees F. on days when   the outdoor temperature was less than # degrees, and have also I I produced heat sufficient for cooking on comparatively cloudy I I days. Researchers believe that the solar stove will probably sell for   as little as # when it is mass produced, a price that is within I  the financial grasp of about # potential users in India I I alone.   Our citation this month goes to Dr. Maria Telkes, of New York I I University, the inventor of the solar cooker; and to the Ford  I Foundation whose grant made the research program possible -- I I where stoves and even the cheapest fuels are often too expensive. I What Is Your Science I. Q.? it would sure help! Count five for each correct answer, and consider yourself good if you get #; excellent at #; and an expert if you hit # or more! Answers on page #. #. Which star is considered the only truly garnet colored star visible to the naked eye? #. Due to the Earth's daily rotation, a fixed object at the equator moves with a speed of about miles per hour. #. How many times in a Martian day does the moon Phobos rise and set? #. Castor the companion star of Pollux is not a single star, but actually a cluster of stars. #. Triton is one of the moons of Neptune; what is the name of the other moon? #. If a star appears in the red shift on the spectroscope we know it is moving Earth. #. How many of the planets are larger than Earth? sun. #. What is the name used by astronomers when referring to the sun's apparent path? #. The gaseous layer above the photosphere of the sun is called the #. What is the name given to the point from which meteor showers apparently come? #. When Mercury is on the other other side of the sun from #. What is the approximate magnitude of Pluto? #. The Rift is a dark in the constellation Cygnus. #. Which star is the brightest short-period variable? #. Densely compressed matter that weighs many tons to the cubic inch is the characteristic of stars. #. We know that Pluto has no atmosphere; what other planet has none that we know of? #. What is the name of the American woman astronomer who discovered the use of cepheid variables as measuring sticks of a star's distance? #. The temperature on the sun's surface is about degrees Fahrenheit. #. Messier #, and # are open star clusters in the constellation Being a world unto one's self is lonely. Even the poor amoeba creature from Venus knew that... Illustrated by Paul Orban again in that strange half-familiar world of murky fluid where only she existed. The liquid was all around her, pressing gently on all sides with a force that cushioned but did not restrain. It was a pleasant sensation, a calming one; the cares of the outside world were non-existent and therefore meaningless. She drifted, unhampered by the fluid. There seemed to be no direction but outward. Her thoughts went out and they returned with impressions. This was her world and she was the center of it. It pleased her to think this. It was an alien pleasure that was mental and without physical counterpart There was quiet, stillness, a peace she had never known. The fluid flowed about her like a great silent sea that held no sound, no movement. It seemed natural that she should be here. She was content. At the accustomed time, the autohypnotics in Miss Abby Martin's body forced her to the threshold of consciousness and cleared her brain of the fog of sleep. Slowly, she opened her eyes to the morning brightness of her bedroom and stared at the vacant skylight and the blue expanse of sky beyond it, not quite comprehending where she was. The cloudfoam cushions of her bed gave credence to the floating sensation she had had during her dream, and for a few seconds she lacked orientation. Then her eyes wandered about the room, to the closed door of the raybath stall, the retracted dressing table, the chronometer label that told her it was March #, # at thirty seconds past # hours. The subtle intonation of her favorite music, Gzerdon's "Maze of Crystal" murmured sofdy from the walls. Awareness came then, and she lay back on the bed and tried to follow the intricate crystal melodies. But a frown ridged her brow, and she wondered at the strange dream instead. She had found it pleasant enough, for she rather enjoyed the languid floating sensation, the feeling of being self-sufficient, a world unto herself. Yet the very fact of the dream's existence in a world where such things were manufactured disturbed her, for she had taken no dreampills the night before, nor at any of die other times the dream had come. The incident made her almost wish that witchdoctor psychiatrics had not been outlawed twenty years ago, so she might get some inkling of the dream's meaning; but psychiatrists had been pulled forcibly from the web of society when mental derangements were put under the jurisdiction of the Somaticists. Overhead, a rocket thundered, shaking the house with a gentle hand, and Abby turned her attention to the sound, momentarily forgetting the dream. Through the one-way skylight, she saw a speck of light accelerate beyond vision. She shook her head impatiently. Rush, rush, rush -- that was all people seemed to think about these days. Go to the Moon, go to Mars, go to Venus. In time they might go to the outer planets and perhaps even try to reach the stars. As though they didn't have enough trouble right here on Earth! All they did, it seemed, was hunt down poor beasts from the various planets and bring them back to Earth to put in cages and tanks on display, ostensibly to "learn more of the planets by studying their inhabitants." To Abby, it seemed cruel and unnecessary. Like that poor amoeba creature from Venus, she thought, remembering the day last week when she and her niece Linda had visited the zoo to see this latest acquisition. It was a creature captured from the giant oceans of the second planet, a giant amoeba encased in a large transparent tank of murky fluid for paying visitors to see. The creature was supposed to be primitively telepathic, but it seemed harmless enough. Abby found herself sympathizing with it, and it seemed to her at the time that the creature felt this sympathy and was grateful for it. For a brief moment she even had fancied that the Venusian's mind had reached out to her, probing with gentle fingers of thought. She shook her head at that. Here in the calm clear light of day diffused through the one-way skylight, the anthropomorphic notion was ridiculous; and she mentally chided herself for contemplating such things. "I must be getting old," she told herself aloud. In the next thought, she reminded herself that thirty-nine years was not old at all, and in the thought that followed, scolded herself for bothering to defend a statement so obviously rhetorical. The chronometer ticked silently to #, and sighing, Abby rose from the bed and slipped from the translucent one-piece pajamas to stand nude in the center of the bedroom. At a sudden thought she glanced quickly about the room, for she had the strange uncomfortable feeling that someone was watching her. It was impossible, of course, but she felt ill-at-ease just the same, and a blush of embarrassment stole over her at the thought. The feeling of shameful nakedness persisted even in the raybath stall, and it was a relief to dress and hurry downstairs, routing the unaccountable ideas from her mind. As usual, Gretchen had busily cleaned the house during the night, silently raying germs and dirt out of existence, and had a warm steaming breakfast-for-two ready by the time Abby had descended the escalator to the dining room. "Good morning, Gretchen," Abby said. "Good morning, Ma'm," Gretchen's mechanical voice agreed tonelessly. The robot-maid continued monotonously, "The day will be clear and sunny, with a high of # degrees Fahrenheit by # hours -- " "That will be all, Gretchen," Abby interrupted sternly, not interested in facts of temperature and humidity given so mercilessly. "Yes, Ma'm," Gretchen said obligingly. She turned and went to her closet until she would be needed again. Abby watched her disappear around a corner and frowned. Sometimes, she thought, the mechanical age could be too mechanical. A simple good morning -- "Good morning, Aunt Abby," Linda said, bounding into sight. "Good morning, Linda," Abby replied, smiling at the girl's energy. It reminded her of when she was seventeen. "Don't rush your breakfast, dear, you've plenty of time to get to school." "Yes, Aunt Abby," Linda said, rushing her breakfast. "We're going on a field trip today," she volunteered between gulps of milk. "To the zoo to see the amoebaman from Venus." Abby smiled. "Amoebaman?" she questioned. "Couldn't it just as easily be an amoeba woman?" "Amoebas don't have sex differences," Linda said matter-of-factly. "We just call it an amoebaman as a sort of classification because it seems intelligent." She finished her meal and dashed across the room. "See you later, Aunt Abby." The door whirred open and shut. Abby went to the window to watch her, sorry she had brought up the subject of sex classification; yet the question had started out harmlessly enough... Waiting outside, a boy stood on an island among moving metal sidewalks. Abby recognized him as one who had 'vised Linda very often on questions of homework. At Linda's approach his eyes took new life, and he laughed a greeting. Together, they stepped onto a sidewalk and slowly wound from sight, their hands interlocked. Abby shook her head disapprovingly; this would have to be discouraged. Linda was much too young to have boyfriends. She shook her head. The younger generation never seemed to move slowly -- they rushed their lives away. the broad one-way windows and watched the cars and aircabs zooming overhead like frightened hornets. Suddenly, she wondered where Dr. Gower was these days. Generally he televised her once in a while or dropped in to chat occasionally, and it pleased her that he did. He was her only male companion these days. That's the way with men, she thought bitterly, nodding to herself, as you grow old, they lose interest in you. Love cannot be founded on a physical basis. The thought of physical intimacy disturbed her, and she thrust it aside. One thing was certain, above all else : she was determined to protect Linda to the best of her ability, even as she had protected herself. "Thank goodness for Linda," she thought. "If it weren't for her... She let the thought hang uncontemplated, for she did have Linda; and she had no wish to dwell upon the memory of her brother's accidental death in an aircab crash which had brought Linda into her custody. She returned her attention to the world outside her window and found nothing there to interest her. Restlessly, she played with the button-controls on the chair's underarm, causing the walls to spring into the simulated life of a threedimensional telecast. A program called "Old-Time Commercial" was in progress. Abby, like most people, enjoyed this one, laughing at the exaggerated claims and the tuneless melodies which had been foisted upon her ancestors during the years before commercials had been outlawed, and she was disappointed to see it fade for channel identification. It was followed by a program of the latest fashions, some of which were much too brazen for Abby to contemplate without squirming, so she changed stations again with a flick of her forefinger beneath the armrest. "... direct from the oceans of Venus," a man's voice announced enthusiastically, and Abby found herself staring at the amoeba-like creature she had seen a week earlier at the zoo... believed to be directly related to our own Earth amoeba," the man continued, "except, of course, this one is far from microscopic, being larger than a man. For communication purposes, these Venusian creatures seem to use a form of telepathy..." Abby mused upon what Linda had said concerning the amoeba's sex, or rather lack of it. She knew that the creatures reproduced by dividing themselves, but she wondered if reproduction came instinctively or by determination. Either way, the method was to be admired, she felt. It was a pity humans were so complicated. An image stirred deep within her, a fragment of some forgotten memory, but Abby did not notice it. The creature from Venus moved restlessly across the three dimensional screen, extending itself. It seemed to be regarding her with an intense sort of curiosity, as though it were reaching out, enveloping her... window, spread a warm languorous pool about her, and she felt pleasantly drowsy. She closed her eyes. After awhile, her head tilted, and the rushing world faded as though it had never been. She floated, placidly content. She seemed, suddenly, to possess a million eyes that probed about in all directions at once. Her body stretched, elongating itself, and moved forward through a translucent fluid to an invisible wall, beyond which stood shadowy figures. She focused her mind upon these figures, and they became clear. There was a little boy gazing at her in awe, his nose pressed against the glass in fascination, not certain if he should be frightened or not. Mentally, she smiled to herself and directed her thoughts to the boy, telling him not to be afraid. There were several children there, and Abby turned her attention to another. It was Linda! Linda staring with wide, curious eyes. And next to her a man. Dr. Gower. Her heart leaped -- And she awoke with the warm sunlight streaming in upon her, her heart pounding unaccountably. She looked around. She was still in her front room before the windows. The television was going, presenting the newscast that followed the zoo program. It was just a dream, but it had seemed so real that it still disturbed her minutes after she was fully awake. For awhile, she was not even certain that the dream had not been real and that this now was not really a dream, that reality and dreaming had not somehow suddenly changed places. Abby was still sitting at the window when Linda came home from school. She watched as Linda and the boy came down the moving sidewalk and stepped off on the island before the house. They stood talking for a moment, then Linda rushed up the walk. The door whirred open and shut, and Linda instead of looking for Abby as was her habit, went straight to the escalator. Abby called, "Linda!" The girl paused. "I -- I'll be back down." "I'd like to see you right now, please," Abby's tone, though not hostile, was unrefusable. Linda appeared hesitantly in the doorway, hands behind her. Abby smiled pleasantly. "Who was that boy, dear? I don't think I know him." "Jimmy Stone," Linda said, excitement creeping into her voice. "He lives over in Sector Five, and he's in my history class at school." Abby recognized the symptoms and frowned mentally at the diagnosis. "He's probably a very nice young man, but -- " "He is, he's very nice," Linda agreed quickly. "He's going to be an astronautical engineer. Look what he made me in plastics class." She drew her hands from behind her and held a scarlet rose cupped in them. It looked soft, as smooth as though it had been just plucked, as though it held a fragrance that was not artificial. "It's very nice," Abby admitted, but she wondered how in this age of intense specialization a future astronautical engineer had managed to enroll in a plastics class to waste his time making pseudoroses. Despite her wish to the contrary, she found herself briefly admiring the youngster, then told herself it was a case of puppy love that had inspired the frivolity. "But don't you think you're a little young to be thinking about boys?" "No," Linda said defensively, pouting. "I like Jimmy and he likes me. I don't see why we shouldn't see each other." "You're in the same class," Abby pointed out ; "that should be enough. After all, you're only seventeen." "Yes," Linda flared in annoyance, and rushed on in a sudden torrent, "then I'll be eighteen and then nineteen and then twenty and then thirty. If I wait long enough maybe I'll let life pass me by, like -- " She paused, eyes wide and regretful at what she was about to say. Abby smiled gently, but a cold chill gripped her. "Like me?" she said. "You're afraid of being an old maid like me, is that it?" She hated to use the expression "old maid," but she knew that was what many people called her. She minded the name more than she admitted even to herself, for the words held an unpleasantness, a loneliness she didn't feel -- very often anyway. But then she had Linda for company. Linda's features softened. "I'm sorry, Aunt Abby," she said quietly. "That's all right, child, I understand how you feel," Abby said. "Now, you go along up and take a shower and get yourself ready for supper, and maybe we'll talk about it later." Linda nodded soberly and turned away. Abby sat in the silence of the room, listening to the soft whisper of the escalator. It hurt her to think that Linda wasn't going to show her the plastic rose at first. You had to be firm in these matters, though, to prevent worse trouble. If care weren't taken, Linda might rush off and be married before she was ready. This was a difficult time for the poor thing, that was certain, but she'd get over it. The little things in a child's life always seemed more important than they really were; that's why there were older people to guide them. Her own mother had been very strict, and Abby saw no reason to regret it. If it hadn't been for that, she might have married the first boy she'd met. She tried to recall him, but somehow she couldn't, and only a vague image came to mind. It disturbed her to have that blank spot in her memory, but Somatic drugs had consistently failed to fill it in. Linda came in a few minutes later, freshly scrubbed but not convinced. U A#I ready, dear?" Abby said pleasantly. She got up and put a consoling arm about the young girl. Together they went into the dining room, where Gretchen had silently placed the appropriate food a few minutes before. the sounds of eating and an occasional whir from the robotmaid as she appeared and disappeared with dishes. Linda was moody, thoughtful. "How was the field trip, dear?" Abby wondered. "All right," Linda answered. "The Venusian amoeba is very much like our own, the man said. It even reproduces itself by division." "Isn't that nice," Abby said, just a bit hesitantly, uncertain that reproduction by any means should be discussed. However, if they taught it in school -- "I feel sorry for it," Linda said. Abby stared at her. "Having no one to love," Linda went on, a faraway look on her face, "no one to love it. If it has any feelings, it must be very lonely." Abby made an irritable stab at a piece of synthetic potato on her plate. "Nonsense," she snapped. "You're talking like a silly schoolgirl." On second thought, she decided that Linda was a silly schoolgirl and would naturally talk like one; she was still a little girl, dependent for protection upon her Aunt Abby. That thought gave her some measure of comfort. "I feel like an amoeba sometimes," Linda said, poking restlessly at a piece of meat on her plate. "Sometimes I wish you were, dear," Abby said, feeling strangely annoyed by the statement. "Now, eat your steak before.it gets cold." "Don't you ever get lonely, Aunt Abby," Linda asked. "Suppose Dr. Gower went away, wouldn't you be lonely." "Dr. Gower is not going away," Abby pointed out. "He might," Linda insisted. "You haven't seen him for three days now. He might be gone already." Despite herself, Abby felt sudden panic. "He's probably busy. Doctors are busy these days." "He could have called." "Linda, eat your supper," Abby said sternly, "and stop this nonsense. Besides, what difference would it make. One person doesn't make the world begin or end. Dr. Gower and I are good friends, but we must adjust to these things. If he is gone away, he's gone, and that's all there is to it!" She tried to make her voice sound calm, but there was a sinking feeling in her stomach, and a small questioning voice in the back of her mind kept asking did he? did he? did he? Furiously, she thrust the thought aside. "I saw him at the zoo today," Linda said. "You did?" Abby said, relieved, and then she thought of her dream of the zoo and of Linda standing there and Dr. Gower beside the girl. Could she be psychic? No, there was a simpler explanation. "I saw you both there," she went on, smiling, "on television this afternoon." Linda frowned. "But Dr. Gower didn't arrive until the program was over, Aunt Abby." "I saw you," Abby insisted. "But I'm certain of it." "You must be mistaken, dear," Abby said in a tone of finality. And that settled that. The doorbuzzer sounded, and Gretchen whirred to answer it. Abby pressed a button beneath the table, and the image of Dr. Gower appeared on a small screen set invisibly in the opposite wall. She could feel her blood accelerate at the sight of him, but she wondered why he looked disturbed. She rose. "I'm going in to see Dr. Gower, dear," she told Linda. "Now, don't rush your food." Linda nodded abstractedly. She wasn't in a rushing mood. "Abby, how are you?" Dr. Gower said warmly, at her approach. "Very well, thank you, Tom," Abby said. "I thought I might have to get sick to see you." "I was busy," he explained. "The colonization of space brings up a great many new medical problems. How's Linda?" "Fine. I'm afraid, she's beginning to have a slight case of puppy love; I'm sure it can be discouraged in time, though." Dr. Gower hesitated. Then he said, "Linda's a normal young girl, Abby. You can't stifle her natural desires forever." "I not only can, but I will." To cushion the harshness of the statement, she added, "At least until she's mature enough to decide these things for herself. She's still a child." "A great many women get married at eighteen," Dr. Gower pointed out. "Physically, it's a good age for marriage, and a psychology going against the physical grain isn't going to help." "There are such things in life, Dr. Gower," Abby said a bit coldly, "as moral considerations. We're not animals, you know." "It might help sometimes," Dr. Gower mused, "if there were a little more animal in us and a little less so-called human." Abby found her enthusiasm for seeing Dr. Gower ebbing, being replaced by what she considered a justified annoyance. Dr. Gower knew her feeling about Linda. Something seemed to have changed his tactics. She did not like the change. "If you don't mind," she said, "I'd like to bring up Linda in my own way. The courts made me legal guardian of Linda until she's twenty-one, and I intend to protect her until then to the best of my ability." "By that time, you'll have her so confused about the world she'll be defenseless against it. I never said anything before, Abby -- " "And now is a poor time to start!" Abby's voice was like ice. "I'm sorry, Dr. Gower, but if you persist in talking this way, I'll have to ask you to leave. Linda is in my charge, and I won't stand for interference, even from you." The doctor's shoulders slumped dejectedly. "Do you know why you were chosen guardian, Abby," he said slowly. "Of course. I was the nearest relative. Why bring that up?" Dr. Gower shook his head. "Nothing," he said, after awhile. "Nothing at all. I came around to say goodbye, Abby." Abby wavered, the ice in her melting. "Goodbye?" "I'm leaving for Venus," he said, "the day after tomorrow. They need doctors up there, and I can probably do more good there than here. Besides, I'd like to investigate these amoeba creatures; I suspect they have more intelligence than we give them credit for." "I -- I'll be sorry to see you leave, Tom." "I came to ask you to go with me. You know how I feel about you, Abby; I thought I'd try just once more." "I couldn't leave Linda," Abby said. "The standard excuse," he reminded her, his voice more weary than bitter. "What Linda has needed all these years was a father, Abby. You're giving her a warped viewpoint." "The Somaticists don't think so," Abby flung at him. He crimsoned. "Somatics aren't the answer. Our era has become so mechanical that people have come to think that pressing a button is going to cure the evils of the world. Pills and pushbuttons are fine in their place, Abby, but they're not the answer, not the complete one anyway. At one time, they thought psychiatry was the answer ; they were wrong there, too. The answer's probably a combination of the two." "I'm not looking for the answer to anything," Abby said wearily. "I just want to be let alone." Dr. Gower nodded and turned to g"Have a nice trip," Abby said, trying to sound cheerful, "I'm sorry we had to argue like this." The thought of his leaving brought a sinking sensation which she tried to thrust off and couldn't. But there was Linda to think of; the girl couldn't go to Venus. At the door, Dr. Gower hesitated. "I don't know if I should tell you this; it might help, and it might not." He paused again uncertainly and then went on in a decisive tone. "Linda's your own child, Abby." She looked at him, puzzled. "Of course. The courts -- " Dr. Gower shook his head impatiently. "I don't mean that. I mean Linda was actually bom to you." The words sank in, but Abby found them meaningless. Two and two did not make five no matter how many times you added them. There was a tense silence, but she didn't know what to say to fill it. "That's what happened in your blank spot, Abby," Dr. Gower went on. "You ran away from home when you were twenty-one, because your mother was too strict, because she acted just like you're acting with Linda. Before she could find you again, someone else had. You were pregnant." Abby's brow furrowed. "You mean -- " the thought completed itself, and a look of horror replaced the frown. "That's a horrible thing to say, even in a lie." "I wish I were lying," Dr. Gower said earnestly. "You didn't remember anything that had happened, and were still dazed for nearly a year afterward. Your subconscious used amnesia as an escape mechanism, and you forgot the incident, repressed it without realizing it. An escape is sometimes possible only in the mind, where Somaticists are often helpless. I didn't say anything before, but now I'm afraid Linda may be made to suffer if I don't." Abby stared at him in shocked silence. She said, after awhile. "It's not true, it can't be." Dr. Gower shrugged. "I'm sorry, Abby, it is. It's not Linda you're worried about, it's yourself; you're afraid to face reality." "Get out," Abby said slowly, hating him for that. Her voice rose the least bit. "I won't listen to these lies." "I thought it might help. Say goodbye to Linda for me." The door closed behind him with a click. Abby stared at the closed door, a small portion of her was calm, the rest chaotic. The calm portion wondered why she should be so disturbed by something so obviously impossible. All these years she'd been wrong about Dr. Gower, trusting him as a friend. For what he said was untrue, of course. It had to be. And yet why couldn't she remember things? It was only eighteen years ago and important things had happened in that year, but somehow her memory bypassed their happening. It was like reading a book with several pages blank ; you knew from later pages what had happened, but the actual experience of the events was lost. Could it be -- the thought came despite her -- could it be that she'd had amnesia, that Dr. Gower had really told her the truth, that someone had actually -- "No. He was lying," she told the room. "He never lied before," Linda said quietly from the doorway. "You -- heard?" Linda nodded. Abby tried to smile. "I'm afraid, dear, that Dr. Gower is like all men. When he couldn't have what he wanted -- " her face clouded at the thought -- "he tried to shock me, to hurt me, to make me ashamed..." "Would it make you ashamed to have me for a daughter?" Abby's heart beat quickly. "Of course not, Linda. But the circumstances -- " "I see," Linda said slowly. "They have a name for children like me; that's what you're ashamed of. Or maybe, as Dr. Gower said, you're afraid for yourself!" "But it's not true, Linda, don't you see?" Abby insisted. She put her arm on the girl's shoulder. Linda shook it off; tears welling in her eyes. "You don't even want to know," the girl accused. "You don't even care." And she turned and ran from the room. The escalator whispered, and Abby stood in the center of the room looking at the empty doorway. She stood on the brink of a great precipice, balancing precariously, and for a brief moment she found herself believing what Dr. Gower had said. He was a fine man, and good, and he would not lie to her. Things her brother had said came to mind, once-harmless statements that seemed to take on new significance, as though he'd said them to prepare her for this moment. And suddenly, very suddenly, the world was tottering; dazedly, she made her way to a chair and sat limply in it. Dr. Gower was gone now, and she would never see him again. She knew that, and she knew that despite the things she'd said, that it did matter that he was going. But then she had Linda to think of. Or was it really Linda that concerned her? She could take the girl along, certainly; that would even clear up the problem of Jimmy Stone. Was it really the marriage she feared, a fear based upon some secret mental block in her mind? The doubt returned then, and she wasn't sure. She wasn't sure of anything anymore. Abby had to think. She had to quiet her nerves and the frantic jumbled thoughts that had begun to race through her mind. She felt dizzy and held a hand to one of the walls to steady herself as she walked to her bedroom. From the dressing table drawer she took a bottle of dreaftipills. The label was fuzzy to her eyes, but the word Danger stood out in bold letters. Abby swallowed three of the pills, which was two more than the safe dosage, and lay across the bed, eyes closed. The door to the room closed automatically. "It's not true," she told herself again, a desperate urgency to her voice. "I've got to get away from these thoughts. Got to get away. Got -- to -- escape." She felt drowsy, but the thought of what Dr. Gower had said persisted. It couldn't be true. It couldn't. And yet it might be; it was the possibility that disturbed her. That blank spot. Eighteen years ago. Eighteen years... sleep. Mentally, she traveled across the familiar plains of her past to that strange dark canyon she couldn't recall. Her mind hovered frightened above the depths, failing to see through its darkness; then she passed to the other side, to her childhood, to when she was a young girl and her mother was alive. The scene burst upon her with vivid clarity, and she found herself reliving it. It was there, all of it. The home life, protecting and yet restraining. Her dissatisfaction. The secret determination. The running away in the dead of night. It was all there, just as Dr. Gower had said. "But it's a dream," she murmured, "just a dream." Yet it seemed a reality. She could feel the cool night press upon her as she made her way slowly through the strange-familiar darkness and descended into the depths of the canyon. The feeling of having been here before was with her, and it brought terror with it. She walked on, looking to either side, listening fearfully. And then she stopped, her blood becoming ice. There was a man before her. She could see only his eyes, but they were cruel eyes, savage and lustful. Knowledge came then, bursting over her in a raging tide. She screamed and ran, her footsteps echoing frantically as she hurried through the darkness, looking for an opening for a protecting light. But no opening appeared, no light came. She ran until she was exhausted, and then she sank to the ground panting trying to still her spasms of breath. There was a small sound, as of the scraping of a shoe and she looked into the eyes again. She screamed again and again and again not knowing where screams ended and echoes began. She put her hands over her ears and screamed into the darkness. She could feel hands reaching out for her and she shrank away from them. Her mind was a playground for terror. She had to escape. She had to. (But sometimes the only escape is in the mind!) The hands reached out. She was suddenly falling, down, down, down. Calmness came, and a grateful thought appeared : she had escaped. Nothing else mattered; only that... She stopped falling. The mist grew thick, thicker ; it became dense; it became liquid. She could not feel the beating of her heart, but her mind was calm and it looked about with a detachment that was intellectual. She was floating again, floating silently through a world of murky fluid. The liquid was pressing with a force so gentle it almost did not exist. It enveloped her like a protecting shield. She drifted. There seemed to be no direction but outward. Her thoughts went out and they returned with impressions. This was her world and she was the center of it. There were no problems here, no encroachments on existence or security. It was like a return to the womb. Womb? she thought. She turned the word over in her mind and found the concept alien. She regarded it intellectually, at leisure. Time passed silently, without incident, without measurement. It had no meaning, no referent. Curious after awhile, she went forward, her mind impinging upon shadowy figures behind the transparent barrier. She focussed her attention upon them, and the image cleared. There was a man there, and a woman, and a girl. She could hear them as they spoke. "I don't know why you wanted to come here, Abby," the man was saying. "You'll see enough of these creatures on Venus." "This one is special," the woman said slowly, tasting the words like some unfamiliar food. "It's what made me change my mind about -- things. It must be very lonely." "Bosh," the man scoffed gently. "Intelligent or not, an amoeba doesn't have feelings of loneliness." "Doesn't it?" the woman wondered. "Perhaps not at first. But being able to probe the minds of humans and sympathize with them yet not contact them can... "We'll be late for the rocket, Mother," the girl said. "Jimmy promised he'd be down to see me off and let me know if he can go to the Venus Academy next year." "All right, Linda, we're going now." At the door, the woman turned for a last look; her thoughts were thoughts of sorrow, of pity, of -- regret, perhaps. "You'll learn much of the world this way," the thoughts came, "and you'll have time to readjust. Knowledge will pyramid gently, and with it will come wisdom. After awhile, escape won't be necessary. You'll want to return then and be a part of your world. Meanwhile, I must help my own people; this is the best way for both of us to escape." The woman linked arms with the man and the girl then, and the three of them went out. Silence returned, bringing with it a troubled wonderment. Then the murky fluid flowed past all vision, and the world returned, safe and familiar. The thoughts returned briefly, as echoes, but they were unfamiliar this time and meaningless. But it was not always so, and it would not always be, for contemplation bred curiosity, and curiosity bred knowledge, and knowledge bred desire, and desire the ways and means of accomplishment. Meanwhile, there was quiet, stillness, a peace she had never known. The fluid flowed about her in a silence that held no sound, no movement. It was womb-like, protective. It seemed natural that she should be here. For the moment, she was content.    digest-size magazine, you will find the greatest variety of puzzles found anywhere today. Cryptograms, mathograms, word chains, askews, cross-additions quizzes, brain teasers and a variety of other features make this one of America's outstanding pasttime magazines. Get a copy today. At all newsstands -- only #c Prescriptions for A and Hbomb radiation sickness may consist of shots of ground glass, or pulverized limestone or quartz. Tests have shown that such injections saved one-fifth of the animals that would have otherwise died from moderately high doses of radiation all over their bodies. Since the life-saving effect seems due to inflammation from introduction of foreign material, the findings may lead to the discovery of other substances which can be used with even better results. Farmers of the future may not mind the rocks in the pastures and fields too much -- provided the rocks are granite. Recent tests have shown that very finely pulverized granite, when spread on the fields, is an excellent fertilizer which provides potassium to alfalfa and clover. Two of the granite minerals, feldspar and mica, supply the potassium which is one of the three fertilizer elements that is necessary to a great variety of plants. The shortage of lumber which has been predicted may be alleviated to a large extent in future times by a lumber making robot. British scientists have devised an automatic machine which uses sawmill waste to turn out strong, continuous, warpless board. Small chips of materials such as fibrous woods, sugar cane waste and even flax sheaves are pushed from a storage hopper into a drier. A film of liquid resin is then applied to the chips to foster adhesion; and then the carpet of chips is dropped on the press. A radio frequency heater starts the second drying process before the board is pressed to final thickness. It emerges from the machine as continuous board at the rate of about twenty feet per minute and is about four feet wide and threequarters of an inch thick. Only three trained men are required to watch over the completely automatic process, which is designed to serve on a twenty-four hour a day basis. Airplanes that break the sound barrier may someday be made of no more than laminated glass and plastics. Researchers have come up with a new material which consists of glass cloth and three different plastic resins laminated and bonded together. The finished product can withstand temperatures of five hundred degrees Fahrenheit for eight days or more, and can withstand these high temperatures better than either aluminum or magnesium. Giant windmills may dot future landscapes as an aid to weather control and smog control. The # foot blade on these motor driven fans, swirling # feet above the ground, would create artificial thermal updrafts. The device would draw air from a radius of about five miles at a rate of # to # miles per hour. The result would be a funnel of fast moving air similar to that found in tornadoes. Changing the angle at which the blades operate, or varying the power of the # horse-power motor, would regulate the thermal and create the desired stream of warm air at the place and time it was necessary. Traffic lights on the highways of tomorrow may be blue and yellow instead of red and green. Color experts havie found that red-green blindness is the most prevalent of all color blindness, and that about # traffic deaths a year are caused by this inability to observe the signals properly. The blue-yellow combination would, according to these researchers, be the logical answer, since these two colors are lowest on the scale of color blindness. They predict that though the change-over would be difficult, traffic accidents due to this disability would be cut by one-third to one-half. Time travel is a favorite science fiction gimmick, and now medical research has come up with a close approximation. A new drug extract taken from a fungus which attacks grain has been tested in Britain, which makes adults feel as though they had shrunk to the size of a child. It also snatches them back through time to relive childhood events with extraordinary clarity. The often long and tedious process necessary to trace back the causes of mental derangement and adult neurosis is speeded up immeasurably by this "time travel" drug, and psychiatrists are hailing its discovery as a great step forward in the treatment of the mentally ill. Radar and radio waves may someday prove that the Earth wears an invisible girdle of electricity similar to the visible rings which encircle Saturn. Geophysical research points to the fact that some extra-terrestrial force that exerts its influence on the Earth's restless magnetic field does exist. The band which is thought to circle the Earth's equatorial area # to # miles in space may have been built up over the ages by electrical storms and may be the force that keeps the terrestrial magnetic field from returning to normal for several days after a magnetic storm. First aid kits in homes of the future may one day include a pocket sized resuscitator and anaesthetic machine. The new gadget weighs less than two pounds, including a thumb-sized gas or oxygen cylinder. It has a rubber face mask, a rebreathing bag and, without the cylinders attached, can be held in the palm of one hand. Patients with heart trouble could keep one handy at home or in the office ; passengers in planes flying at high altitudes # -- Away from. # -- Four. # -- #. # -- Ecliptic. # -- Chromosphere. #I -- Radiant. # -- #. # -- Fourteen. # -- Nebula. # -- Algol. # -- White dwarf. # -- Mercury. # -- Henrietta Leavitt. # -- #. # -- Auriga. could use them in emergencies; and police and firemen could use them for unexpected births, drowning accidents, mine explosions and fires. In short, this handy new machine could be available at all times for any emergency suffocation which might arise. A floating heliport which rests on water may be the answer to quick convenient air service from your home town. A test model has been built on a six story office building in Phoenix, Arizona, and consists of an aluminum platform floating in two inches of water. The building has not been reinforced at all, yet the roof shows no signs of caving in. The I #by#-foot float distributes the landing shock of the helicopter to the entire roof area covered by diked-in water and so eliminates the pinpoint stresses that have in the past required extensive changes in the very frame of buildings receiving concrete heliports on their roofs. The new installation weighs about # pounds and would cost about # per square foot, and could be installed without reconstruction on any roof already stressed for about # pounds per square foot. A concrete landing strip, such as is now used weighs about # tons and costs # per square foot. "Fish farming" may someday be an important adjunct to grain and vegetable farming. Recent work with farmland ponds, which have been fertilized with manure and compost and artificial fertilizers, promoting lush vegetable growth in the water, show that vegetation-eating fish thrive. The carnivorous fish feed on these, and the farmer reaps a fish harvest that often produces more income than that from an acre of land. Salt water fish farms, which use electric currents to trap the "crop # ' on a mass scale, are the next step in producing enough food to go around. Buildings comparable in size to two city blocks for use as hangars, storage warehouses and small factories may soon be made entirely by prefabricated methods. A new design, featuring a double cantilever and a space-frame construction principle, can be mass produced for permanent or temporary structures. The units can be folded like an accordion and shipped to the construction site where unskilled labor can lock them into position. Since there are no key structural points Book Service Phone GRamercy #-#  We Stock All current American Science Fiction in Book Form and carry current Magazines and Pocket Books.  A large selection of Science Fiction is available of British Books, Magazines and Pocket Editions.  We carry a large stock of Back Issues of Science Fiction Magazines.  in the weblike design, bombing it would be like poking a hole in a spider web. Parts damaged by explosion could be replaced quickly without disabling the building while repairs are being made. Your TV set, ten years from now, may have a picture screen so thin that it can be hung on the wall like a painting. According to predictions by General Electric scientists, the circuits and wiring would be built into the frame and the tubes would be a grid of wiring. Controls would be located in a small box beside your easy chair, and the model would receive color as well as monochrome pictures. Work is now going on to speed the plotting of aircraft in military filter centers by means of a picture-on-the-wall plotting board which uses electronic computer circuitry techniques to convert signals into an image on the board. This technique, when fully developed, can be carried over to civilian uses and will make possible the predicted TV installation. miles he leaned over several times to look out the window, his face close to mine. He would point at cars and I nodded and told him what makes they were. We passed a small airport and he got quite excited and pressed his face against the window. I explained that they were airplanes and he made motions with his hands that indicated he understood that planes went up and down. When he moved back to his seat there was a big wet spot on the window where his mouth had been. About twenty miles from New York the old lady took him by the hand and they got off. As the bus moved on, I watched them as they stood by the side of the road. She was wiping his face with a handkerchief and he was standing childlike there for her, his knees slightly bent, his arms hanging loosely and his face turned up at an odd angle. I thought about them until the bus pulled into the terminal on Forty-third Street. I couldn't forget the old lady and her problem during years past and years to come. Even that dim, dirty, noisy street outside the terminal looked brighter now, for some reason, and the air was pretty good and the stretch of sky above the tall buildings was a bright blue. Suddenly I recalled the reason for my trip, but it was no longer very important; it was now almost inconsequential. See what I mean? -- jlq Science is not the disembodied sort of activity that some people would make out, engaged in the abstract task of pursuing universal truth, but a social function intimately linked up with human history and human destiny. -- Julian Huxley The Greatest Selection of Puzzles Ever Published for Only #c ! " Most fascinating variety of puzzles I ever saw." -- A.B.M. T HE newest, largest, most varied and interesting selection of puzzles, word games, math games, quizzes and brain teasers ever published at the price! Hundreds of exciting ways to test your wits and talents! Months and months of fun and entertainment! Puts pep into parties. A fine, inexpensive gift. Order today! agree that it is the greatest puzzle book you ever saw at the price, return within # days for complete refund! Send only #c to Kingston, N. Y. Scores and scores of brand new crosswords of all types and sizes, from "quickies" to giants, regulars, askews, you-make-its, diagramless, and many other kinds. Fun for yourself or parties! Brand new visual puzzles to sharpen your wits ond memory. Here are some novel ways of testing your powers of observation. Try them with your friends and see who's the best reporter. Pages and pages of new cryptic messages -- funny, familiar, serious and otherwise -- that will really test your decoding talents. Pages and pages of these old favorites, constructed by expert hands, for real puzzle doers. As exciting as a carney barker's pitch. You get a "prize" too! A new type of word puzzle presented here for the first time. If you would like to try numbers for a change, here are some puzzles that will give you a work-out! Tricks and turns aplenty in these tricky teasers! puzzles, including Put and Take, Pat Answers, Compositions and Composers, Ink Spots, Vocabulary Quizzes, etc., etc. Science Fiction Magazine" is the growing-est science fiction magazine in America because every issue sparkles with new ideas and entertainment!... The finest fiction and features by the finest writers!... The best artwork by the best artists!... The finest paper and the finest printing by far!... That's why readers everywhere are calling it "America's most interesting science fiction magazine"... But why not see for yourself? You risk nothing! We will send you -- All you have to do is mail handy subscription form low. We will then send you your first issue at once -- IF Magazine, Kingston, New York Enclosed find # (check or money order) for which please send me IF  Magazine for the next # months. It is understood that the first issue is a know and you will return the full subscription price at once! on trial! If you do not enjoy every minute of it, just let us know and we will refund your money at once! If you DO like it (which we are sure you will) we will send you the next # issues fresh off the press -- which means you get # issues in all for the regular # subscription price, saving you #! Mail the Only # Money back guaranteed  full-color cover painting by Kelly Freas for the June IF. An interprepresentation of an unusual theme of a story about the "watchers", people of another universe -- who might be you or any one around you! Mr. Freas, whose artwork has appeared in leading national publications, considers it one of the best covers he has ever done. Don't miss it. See it in full color on the June IF. All Stories New and Complete  "Technocracy Versus the Humanities" by Kenneth Fagg I IF is published monthly by Quinn Publishing Company, Inc. Volume #, No. #. Copyright # by Quinn Publishing Co., Inc. Office of publication, # Loril Street, Buffalo, New York. Entered as Second Class Matter at Post Office, Buffalo, New York. Subscription # for # issues in U.S. and Possessions; Canada # for # Issues; elsewhere #. Allow four weeks for change of address. All stories appearing in this magazine are fiction; any similarity to actual persons is coincidental. Not responsible for unsolicited artwork or manuscripts. #c a copy. Printed in U.S.a! Next issue on sale April #th leaving the humanities far behind becomes more and more obvious every day. Science is taking the effort of living off our backs, easing everything from our minds to our aching feet. Electrical devices to improve our memory units are now in the experimental stage. Conveyor belts may someday take the place of elevators and sidewalks and hasten us still more on our already hurrying way. Radio clocks wake us up to music and start our breakfast. We can push a button and our automobile starts, we get power to run a drill or a still; a button cleans our house, furnishes conditioned air and warms our feet or what-have-you. Technocracy has taken us into the domain of the birds, the fish and the gophers; it has devised new drugs and techniques for lessening the pain of operations and dentist drills. We are entertained visually and audibly by things that happen thousands of miles away and food comes prepared any way we want it. Everything is geared to a scientific formula for easing the burden of having to do anything laborious or tedious for our mortal selves. But, alas, very little is done to improve the amenities and brotherhood of Mankind. Exactly what the formula for improving the brotherly relations of Man will be is anybody's guess. I don't think politics will do it; I don't think religion will do it -- both have had thousands of years to work on it and haven't improved it noticeably. Philosophy might help, but that is too much of an individual science to work for the masses. Whether one wants to face it or not, it looks as though it will take some common catastrophe to make Mankind pull together, to make two-legged beings appreciate and understand each other as related souls -- "misery loves company"; that sort of thing. Whatever the mechanics of achieving that purpose, good or bad or tragic, maybe the end will justify the means. And whether it takes one or two or a thousand or more years, we can sort of anticipate it by developing an optimistic outlook on life while we're around. my idle moments, I have been working on a little invention that might help out here and there. It's a little gadget that will attack many of our more vicious traits by remedying the situation before too much harm can be done. It is indeed a remarkable machine, even to the most science-fiction minded, and you will probably recognize radar, telepathy, computing devices and other scientific items in its make-up. It isn't patented yet, so I can't give you the exact blueprint of its manufacture. However, it is easier to tell you what it does than how it does it. Take gossip, for instance. Here is a little pastime, innocent enough sometimes, but often as malicious and murderous as a planned campaign of propaganda and lethal weapons. The scene is the regular Wednesday meeting of the Thursday afternoon bridge club. The girls have gotten together to chat, have tea or a light luncheon and, incidentally, play a little bridge. The gal who's dummy on the first hand starts the ball rolling: "You know, I heard from Daisy Carter that Gert Smith heard from her third cousin Matilda, who lives in Old Toadstool, that Josie Brown went out with Herman Jukes and didn't get home until four A.M. -- and just listen to this! -- they were staggering, practically holding each other up. I'll bet they were up to no good. He's the one that... The bridge game has stopped cold. The gals are lapping up the dirt like four starving cats working on a lone saucer of milk. Now, this is where my invention cuts in and begins to function. #. It damps the lady's speech centers and by means of telepathy tries to reason with her that, actually, she has not seen or heard first hand one single thing she is repeating and doesn't know that one single thing she's saying is gospel truth. It tries to impress on her that out of mole hills of unsubstantiated fact she is making mountains to rival the Rockies or the Andes with maybe Mount Everest thrown in. If this little gambit doesn't succeed in penetrating her thick little skull, it... #. Interferes with her digestion of those creamy confections she gobbled at the luncheon, causes violent cramps in her tummy and forces her to retire to the powder room, where she has to stay until everyone else is gone. #. If measures one and two fail and there is a nice handy chandelier or bucket of paint or anvil or other heavy object nearby, it simply levitates the object to a spot directly over her head and... Something else my invention will be allergic to is the guy who hogs the road when he is driving his old jallopy or his new dynamic hyper-eight; the guy who zooms around corners, ignoring stop lights or full stop signs or runs you over to the side of the road with his maniacal maneuvering. Oh boy! What my invention will do to that monster! There are many other delightful training-reactions incorporated in this little invention for many, many other circumstances; but there isn't room to tell you about them in this issue. However, you get the general idea. Let me know if you're in the market for one of the early models.jlq Discontent was brewing aboard the R. S. S. Indefeasible. And Captain Gorbel, a proud "basic" man , could cope with it... But Mother Earth turned the tables! -- Gapt. Gorbel, being a military man, thought of it as "disaffection" -- among the crew of the R.S.S. Indefeasible had reached the point where they could no longer be ignored, well before the ship had come within fifty light years of its objective. Sooner or later, Gorbel thought, this idiotic seal-creature is going to notice them. Capt. Gorbel wasn't sure whether he would be sorry or glad when the Adapted Man caught on. In a way, it would make things easier. But it would be an uncomfortable moment; maybe it would be better to keep sitting on the safety valve until Hoqqueah and the other Altarians were put off on -- what was its name again? -- Oh yes. Earth. But the crew plainly wasn't going to let Gorbel put it off that long. As for Hoqqueah, he didn't appear to have a noticing center anywhere in his brain. He was as little discommoded by the emotional undertow as he was by the thin and frigid air the Rigellian crew maintained inside the battlecraft. Secure in his coat of warm blubber, his eyes brown, liquid and merry, he sat in the forward greenhouse for most of each ship's day, watching the growth of the star Sol in the black skies ahead. And he talked. Gods of all stars, how he talked! Capt. Gorbel already knew more about the ancient -- the very ancient -- history of the seeding program than he had had any desire to know. Nor was the seeding program Hoqqueah's sole subject. The Colonization Council delegate had had a vertical education, one which cut in a narrow shaft through many different fields of specialization -- in contrast to GorbePs own training, which had been spread horizontally over the whole subject of spaceflight without more than touching anything else. Hoqqueah seemed to be making a project of enlarging the Captain's horizons, whether he wanted them enlarged or not. "Take agriculture," he was saying at the mbment. "This planet we're to seed provides an excellent argument for taking the long view of farm policy. There used to be fertile jungles there; but the people began their lives as farmers with the use of fire, and they killed themselves off in the same way." "How?" Gorbel said automatically. Had he remained silent, Hoqqueah would have gone on anyhow; and it didn't pay to be impolite to the Colonization Council, even by proxy. "In their own prehistory, fifteen thousand years before their official zero date, they cleared farmland by burning it off. Then they would plant a crop, harvest it, and let the jungle return. Then they burned the jungle off and went through the cycle again. At the beginning, they wiped out the greatest abundance of game animals Earth was ever to see, just by farming that way. Furthermore, the method was totally destructive to the topsoil. "Even after they achieved spaceflight, that method of farming was standard in most of the remaining jungle areas -- even though the bare rock was showing through everywhere by that time." Hoqqueah sighed. "Now of course, there's nothing but desert, naked rock, bitter cold, and thin, oxygen-poor air -- or so the people wduld view it, if there were any of them left." Gorbel shot a glance at the hunched back of Lt. Averdor, his adjutant and navigator. Averdor had managed to avoid saying so much as one word to Hoqqueah or any of the other panatropists from the beginning of the trip. Of course he wasn't required to assume the diplomatic burdens involved -- those were GorbePs crosses -- but the strain of dodging even normal intercourse with the sealmen was beginning to tell on him. Yet it was certainly beyond GorbePs authority to order Averdor to speak to an Adapted Man. He had suggested that Averdor run through a few mechanical courtesies, for the good of the ship. The only response had been one of the stoniest stares Gorbel had ever seen. And the worst of it was that Gorbel was, as a human being, wholly on Averdor's side. "After a certain number of years, conditions change on any planet," Hoqqueah babbled solemnly, waving a flipper-like arm. He was working back to his primary obsession: the seeding program. "It's only logical to insist that man be able to change with them -- or, if he can't do that, he must establish himself somewhere else. Suppose he had colonized only the Earthlike planets? Not even those planets remain Earthlike forever, not in the biological sense." "Why would we have limited ourselves to Earthlike planets in the first place?" Gorbel said. "Not that I know much about the place, but the specs don't make it sound like an optimum world." "To be sure," Hoqqueah said, though as usual Gorbel didn't know which part of his own comment Hoqqueah was agreeing to. "There's no survival value in pinning one's race forever to one set of specs. It's only sensible to go on evolving with the universe, to stay independent of such things as the aging of worlds, or the explosions of their stars. Man exists now in so many forms that there's always a refuge somewhere for any threatened people. That's a great achievement -- compared to it, what price the old arguments about sovereignity of form?" "What, indeed?" Gorbel said, but inside his skull his other self was saying: Ah-ha, he smells the hostility after all. Once an Adapted Man, always an Adapted Man -- and always fighting for equality with the basic human form. But it's no good, you seal-snouted bureaucrat. You can argue for the rest of your life, but your whiskers will always wiggle when you talk. And obviously you'll never stop talking. "And as a military man yourself, you'd be the first to appreciate the advantages, Captain," Hoqqueah added earnestly. "Using panatropy, man has seized thousands of worlds that would have been inaccessible to him otherwise. He can take most of the galaxy under occupation without stealing anyone else's planet in the process. An occupation without dispossession -- without bloodshed. Yet if some race other than man should develop imperial ambitions, and try to annex our planets, it will find itself enormously outnumbered." "That's true," Capt. Gorbel said, interested in spite of himself. "It's probably just as well that we worked it out before somebody else thought up the method. But, how come it was us? Seems to me that the first race to invent it should've been a race that already had it -- if you follow me." "Not quite, Captain. If you will give me an example -- ?" "Well, we scouted a system once where there was a race that occupied two different planets, not both at the same time, but back and forth," Gorbel said. "They had a life-cycle that had three different forms. In the first form they'd winter over on the outermost of the two worlds. Then they'd change to another form that could cross space, mother-naked, without ships, and spend the rest of the year on the inner planet in the third form. Then they'd change back into the second form and cross back to the colder planet. "It's a hard thing to describe. But the point is, this wasn't anything they'd worked out; it was natural to them. They'd evolved that way." He looked at Averdor again. "The navigation was tricky around there during the swarming season." Averdor failed to rise to the bait. "I see; the point is well taken," Hoqqueah said, nodding with grotesque thoughtfulness. "But let me point out to you, Captain, that being already able to do a thing doesn't aid you in thinking of it as something that needs to be perfected. Oh, I've seen races like the one you describe, too -- races with polymorphism, sexual alteration of generation, metamorphosis of the insect life-history type, and so on. But why should any of them think of form-changing as something extraordinary, and to be striven for? It's one of the commonplaces of their lives, after all." A small bell chimed in the greenhouse. Hoqqueah got up at once, his movements precise and almost graceful despite his tubbiness. "Thus endeth the day," he said cheerfully. "Thank you for your courtesy, Captain." He waddled out. He would, of course, be back tomorrow. And the day after that. And the next day -- unless the crewmen had tarred and feathered the whole bunch by then. If only, Gorbel thought distractedly, the damned Adapts weren't so quick to abuse their privileges! As a delegate of the Colonization Council, Hoqqueah was a person of importance, and could not be barred from entering the greenhouse except in an emergency. But didn't the man know he shouldn't abuse the privilege on a ship manned by basic-form human beings, most of whom could not enter the greenhouse at all without a direct order? And the rest of the panatropists were just as bad. As passengers, they could go almost anywhere in the ship that the crew could go -- and they did, persistently and unapologetically, as though moving among equals. Legally, that was what they were -- but didn't they know that there was such a thing as prejudice? And that among common spacemen the prejudice -- against any Adapted Man -- always hovered near the borderline of bigotry? There was a slight hum as Averdor' s power chair swung around to face the Captain. Like most Rigellian men, the Lieutenant's face was lean and harsh, and the starlight in the greenhouse did nothing to soften it; but to Capt. Gorbel, to whom it was familiar down to its last line, it looked especially forbidding now. "Well?" he said. "I'd think you'd be fed to the teeth with that freak by this time," Averdor said without preamble. "Something's got to be done, Captain, before the crew gets so surly that we have to start handing out brig sentences." "I don't like know-it-alls any better than you do," Gorbel said grimly. But the man's a delegate of the Council. He's got a right to be up here if he wants to." "You can bar him from the greenhouse in an emergency -- " "I fail to see any emergency," Gorbel said stiffly. "This is a hazardous part of the galaxy -- potentially, anyhow. That star up ahead has nine planets besides the one we're supposed to land on, and I don't know how many satellites of planetary size. Suppose somebody on one of them lost his head and took a crack at us as we went by?" Gorbel frowned. "That's reaching for trouble. Besides, the area's been surveyed recently -- at least once -- otherwise we wouldn't be here." "A sketch job. It's still sensible to take precautions. If there should be any trouble, there's many a Board of Review that would call it risky to have unreliable secondclass human types in the greenhouse when it breaks out." "You're talking nonsense." "Dammit, Captain, read between the lines a minute," Averdor said harshly. "I know as well as you do that there's going to be no trouble that we can't handle. And that no reviewing board would pull a complaint like that on you if there were. I'm just trying to give you an excuse to use on the seals." "I'm listening." "Good. The Indefeasible is the tightest ship in the Rigellian navy, her record's clean, and the crew's morale is almost a legend. We can't afford to start gigging the men for their personal prejudices -- which is what it will amount to, if those seals drive them to breaking discipline." "I can hear myself explaining that to Hoqqueah." "You don't need to," Averdor said doggedly. "You can tell him, instead, that you're going to have to declare the ship on emergency status until we land. That means that the panatrope team, as passengers, will have to stick to their quarters. It's simple enough." It was simple enough, all right. And decidedly tempting. "I don't like it," Gorbel said. "Hoqqueah may be a know-it-all, but he's not entirely a fool. He'll see through it easily enough." Averdor shrugged. "It's your command," he said. "I don't see what he could do about it. All he could report to the Council would be a suspicion -- and they'd probably discount it. Everybody knows that these second-class types are quick to think they're being persecuted." "I see what you mean," Gorbel said. "Well, I'll think about it." when Hoqqueah returned to the greenhouse, Gorbel still had not made up his mind. The very fact that his own feelings were on the side of Averdor and the crew made him suspicious of Averdor's "easy" solution. The plan was tempting enough to blind a man to flaws that might otherwise be obvious. The Adapted Man settled himself comfortably and looked out through the transparent metal. "Ah," he said. "Our target is bigger now, eh, Captain? Think of it: in just a few days now, we will be -- in the historical sense -- home again." Now it was riddles! "What do you mean?" Gorbel said. "I'm sorry; I thought you knew. Earth is the home planet of the human race, Captain. There is where the basic form evolved." Gorbel considered this unexpected bit of information cautiously. Even assuming that it was true -- and it probably was, that would be the kind of thing Hoqqueah would know about a planet to which he was assigned -- it didn't seem to make any special difference in the situation. But Hoqqueah had obviously brought it out for a reason. Well, he'd be trotting out the reason, too, soon enough; nobody would ever accuse the Altarian of being taciturn. "Yes, there's where it all began," Hoqqueah said. "Of course, at first it never occurred to those people that they might produce preadapted children. They went to all kinds of extremes to adapt their environment instead, or to carry it along with them. But they finally realized that with the planets, such a system won't work. You can't spend your life in a spacesuit, or under a dome, either. "Besides, they had form trouble in their society from their earliest days. For centuries they were absurdly touchy over minute differences in coloring and shape, and even in thinking. They had regime after regime that tried to impose its own concept of the standard citizen on everybody, and enslaved those who didn't fit the specs." Abruptly, Hoqqueah's chatter began to make Gorbel uncomfortable. It was becoming easier and easier to sympathize with Averdor's determination to ignore the Adapted Man's existence entirely. "It was only after they'd painfully taught themselves that such differences really don't matter, that they could go on to panatropy," Hoqqueah said. "It was the logical conclusion. Of course, a certain continuity of form had to be maintained, and has been maintained to this day. You cannot totally change the form without totally changing the thought processes. If you give a man the form of a cockroach, as one ancient writer foresaw, he will wind up thinking like a cockroach, not like a human being. We recognized that. On worlds where only extreme modifications of the human form would make it suitable -- for instance, a planet of the gas giant type -- no seeding is attempted. The Council maintains that such worlds are the potential property of races other than the human, races whose psychotypes would not have to undergo radical change in order to survive there." Dimly, Capt. Gorbel saw where Hoqqueah was leading him. The seal-man, in his own maddeningly indirect way, was arguing his right to be considered an equal in fact, as well as in law. He was arguing it, however, with facts whose validity he alone knew and whose relevance he alone could judge. He was, in short, loading the dice, and the last residues of Gorbel's tolerance were evaporating rapidly. "Of course there was resistance back there at the beginning," Hoqqueah said. "The kind of mind, that had only recently been persuaded that men with melanin in their skins are human beings, was quick to take the attitude that an Adapted Man -- any Adapted Man -- was the social inferior of the 'primary or basic human type, the type that lived on Earth. "You see, Captain, all this might still have been prevented, had it been possible to maintain that attitude that belief that changing the form, even in part, makes a man less of a man than he was in the 'primary' state. But the day has come when that attitude is no longer tenable -- a day that is the greatest of all moral watersheds for our race, the day that is to unite all our divergent currents of attitudes toward each other into one common reservoir of brotherhood and purpose. You and I are very fortunate to be on the scene to see it." "Very interesting," Gorbel said coldly. "But those things happened a long time ago, and we know very little about this part of the galaxy these days. Under the circumstances -- which you'll find clearly written out in the log, together with the appropriate regulations -- I'm forced to place the ship on emergency alert beginning tomorrow, and continuing until your team disembarks. I'm afraid that means that henceforth all passengers will be required to stay in quarters." Hoqqueah turned and arose. His eyes were still warm and liquid, but there was no longer any trace of merriment in them. "I know very well what it means," he said. "And to some extent I understand the need -- though I had been hoping to first see the planet of our birth from space. But I don't think you quite understood me. Captain. The moral watershed of which I spoke is not in the past. It is now. It began the day that the Earth itself became no longer habitable for the so-called basic human type. The flowing of the streams toward the common reservoir will become bigger and bigger, as word spreads through the galaxy that Earth itself has been seeded with Adapted Men. With that news will go a shock of recognition -- the shock of realizing that the 'basic' types are now, and have been for a long time, a very small minority, despite their pretensions." Was Hoqqueah being absurd enough to threaten -- an unarmed, comical seal-man shaking a fist at the captain of the Indefeasible? Or -- "Before I go, let me ask you this one question, Captain. Down there is your home planet, and my team and I will be going out on its surface before long. Do you dare to follow us out of the ship?" "Why should I?" Gorbel said. "Why, to show the superiority of the bask type, Captain," Hoqqueah said softly. "Surely you cannot admit that a pack of seal-men are your betters, on your own ancestral ground!" He bowed and went to the door. Just before he reached it, he turned (Continued on page #) Illustrated by Paul Orban Hal was stranded in the wilderness with a beautiful girl, and it was surprisingly enjoyable -- while his conditioning was off. But, after all, how uncivilized can one get? Executive's seat. Although he twisted and shifted his position restlessly, he received the same sensation of perfect, comfortable support no matter which way he sat in it. Which was only natural, of course. Formair was the best suspend-field furniture manufactured. As he squirmed about, he had a faint, puzzled frown on his face, and in his stomach he felt a lurking sensation of unaccustomed tension. Hal simply could not understand it. There was a faint humming sound, as the door panel slid back. His father entered the office. "Well Hal," the old man murmured softly with a placid smile of satisfaction, a year. We may be the richest "We've done it." people in the world then." "Done what? Oh, you mean the "That's nice," Hal said mildly, new coloration process?" His father flicked a finger across "Yes. It will quintuple the net a sensitive spot on the front of the value of the family fortune within desk and relaxed as a perfect Formair attendant's chair sprang into existence to fit his gross, soft body. "Yes indeed' he said with a mild sigh. "It's been a long, long time that we've been working for that. Worked mighty hard, too." "That's right," murmured Hal, a little more forcefully than necessary. "Splendid." His father's eyebrows rose at the unusual emphasis, but he was much too cultured to question the point. He continued along the lines of the conversation already started. "We'll have to do something for Bruchner. He has been of tremendous assistance on that project. Did it practically all by himself. He is a very intelligent man, even if he is an Outlander." "Bruchner," said Hal with mild irritation. "All I hear around here lately is Bruchner. What is he, anyway? Nothing but a savage." "Eh?" said his father softly, raising his eyebrows again in polite inquiry. fellow, why doesn't he take the Treatment and become civilized? I sometimes get a little tired of an employee who tells me I'm wrong all the time." "But he is almost always right when he makes such statements, Hal," Webber pointed out mildly. "For instance, just the other day I asked him about the color range to be used with the new process on the Formair Skydome. He stated flatly that blue was a normal color for sky. Just like that. I was a little startled, of course, at his lack of courtesy. But after I thought it over a while, blue did seem to be a nice color for sky." "Aaa, blue," Hal muttered. "What's wrong with the green we've always used in the past?" Mr. Webber sighed and squirmed a little to get the chair into a more comfortable fit. Attendant's chairs were not quite as comfortable as the Executive type, even if they were Formair. Then he cocked an eyebrow and looked at his son with mild concern. "Hal, my boy, what's the trouble? I've never seen you so completely upset in all my life." "I feel funny," murmured Hal. "As a matter of fact, I feel awful. Maybe there's some connection." "Ill," the old man nodded agreeably. "Yes, I thought you looked it when I came in here. Something in the set of your mouth. Tight, sort of." . With an expression of mild surprise, Hal reached up and tentatively felt around his mouth with a cleanly manicured forefinger. "Son," Webber murmured, "how long has it been since you had your last CG Treatment?" "Eight years," Hal admitted. "It's a little overdue, I suppose, but surely -- " His voice trailed off softly, as his mind seized upon the possibility. "That's probably what it is," Webber replied. That was a pretty definite statement for someone to make about another's sensations, but anyone could see that the old man was concerned over his son. "Five years is the standard period at your age. Why haven't you taken it?" "Well, you know," Hal whispered. "It's that new thing they have in it now." "Ah," said his father with comprehension. "That's right, I forgot all about that. A change. But you won't mind, really you won't. You just think you will." "Perhaps so," Hal said, and hastily changed the subject of conversation to a less depressing topic. "The new coloration process is a real success, you say?" "Absolutely. We can now provide flexible hue and chroma for the complete Formair line -- Airchair, Aircab and Airdome. We'll be the only one who has it, and since every Proprietor on the planet will want our new equipment as fast as we turn it out, we'll put every other firm completely out of the business. I've already worked out a method so that we can convert to export goods, too, without waiting for the economic balance to be readjusted. Of course, the colonies will have to curtail a little, but we don't have to concern ourselves with them." "Yes," agreed Hal. "Bruchner has been very useful to us on it," the old man repeated again. "We'll have to show him we appreciate it." Hal's mouth tightened just perceptibly at the mention of the redoubtable engineer, but he said nothing. His father continued in his soft, mild voice. "We must make him a present of something. Should it be money? Can't give him property, of course, because he isn't a citizen." "I don't like the idea of giving an Outlander money. They get their allotments and that's enough wealth. If you give them money, they will be able to buy more than their allotment, and that could very easily upset our own economic balance, you know." "Quite true," Webber agreed. Then he smiled with placid inspiration. "I know. We'll give him fame. We'll name the process after him." "Well," Hal said doubtfully, "I guess that would do it." "I think so. He's been a great help. As a matter of fact, though, most of the Outlanders are helpful. A pity they won't take the Treatments and become citizens. It seems sort of sad the way their emotions cut them up at times. Like old Tanan last month. Why, up to then he was almost like a civilized man -- even without the treatments." "I know," Hal said tonelessly. "It was his son, wasn't it?" "Yes. Curious that the old man should be so concerned over that little unpleasantness. So his son did get a little excited and kill a Proprietor and was executed himself. No reason for his father to carry on so about it, is there? I tried to get him to take the Treatment then, but -- well, after all, you can hardly expect an uncivilized Outlander to appreciate the advantages, can you?" "No." Hal did not refer to the fact that the new element recently put into the standard CC Treatment was causing him to postpone taking it himself, but his father seemed to sense his thought. "You won't mind it, son. Really you won't. The Treatment will take care of the whole thing. It's perfectly obvious that you are suffering from the effects of the delay right at this moment." "Oh Chaos," Hal swore softly. "Why did they have to go and put that element in anyway?" "Now Hal, you know better than that," his father chided him gently. "It was either include a marital inclination or else go in for a complete program of artificial insemination. The women have a vote too, you know, and they wouldn't hear of it. They don't object to carrying a child for a few months -- that's always been in their conditioning for some reason or another. But they insisted that if they had to be mothers, the men would have to be fathers. And they insisted on a standard, civilized marriage contract to cover the situation." "I know, I know. I've heard all the arguments. Racial suicide and all. Nonsense. We can always import Outlanders and force them to take the Treatment. Outlanders," he pointed out with suitable, mild, cultured disgust, "breed like animals." "No son, that wouldn't do the job. We have to keep the blood line. Outlanders don't have it, you know. If they did, they would have permitted themselves to be civilized long ago." Hal's fingers drummed nervously on the desk top, and his father again raised an eyebrow in mild concern. He shook his head thoughtfully. Guiltily, Hal stopped his fingers from their satisfying tattoo. He bunched them into a fist instead, and then gazed at it with mild unbelief. "All right," he finally whispered. "This is simply awful. And it looks as if in order to be cured, I'll have to get me a wife along with it. A pity, though. Everything was perfectly mild without one." "You'll be mild with a wife, Hal," his father assured him softly. "You don't like the prospect now, because it means change. Change, of course, is always unpleasant. But the Treatment will take care of it all right. I know that I didn't expect things to work out so mildly with a wife. It was optional back in those days, and if it hadn't been for your mother's family money, I never would have married. Particularly her -- with her family history of fecundity. As witnessed by the children we produced -- you and your sister. But Formair needed the money, and I was the only available man in the Webber clan. When I agreed to make the sacrifice, they made me president of the firm, because it isn't often that a man will do so much for his own family. Shows real character. It's in the cultured family blood, naturally." Hal had heard all this many, many times before, but he listened without irritation. Or at least, with only the mild irritation that was the result of his present unstable condition. "Yes indeed," his father went on in his mild, comfortable voice. "Hardly knew she was around the house, though, once the Treatment was over with. It was just as if she had been around all my life. Marvelous process." "All right," Hal murmured. "I'll take it." "Be a good idea to pick out a wife first. Sometimes there are a few minor adjustments to make because of outstanding individual characteristics. You get an absolutely perfect fit that way, you know." He stood up and walked toward the door, the flabby muscles of his body easily supporting the two pounds relative of his weight. "The Ansermet family has a female available, I believe," he murmured as he walked. "Excellent choice. But you better have the probability checked anyway." "I know about her," Hal replied thoughtfully. "But what's she like? Have you ever met her?" His father smiled benignly back at him, as he practically floated through the doorway. "That doesn't matter a bit," he said mildly. "It doesn't make any difference at all what either of you are like. The Treatment will bring you both back to absolute, statistical normal, and you'll both be a perfect fit for each other. Quite pleasantly civilized." The door hummed shut behind him. "Well," Hal announced aloud to himself, "guess that's it." He ordered the automatic secretary to make all suitable arrangements and then stood up. He walked to the elevator, where a soft, hissing breeze conveyed his temporary one-tenth pound relative gently up the tube to the roof. There his weight returned to its normal two pounds relative, and he spoke to the robot attendant. "My cab." His Formair Aircab was promptly and quietly delivered, and Hal stepped inside. "Destination?" a voice inquired softly from the control bank. "Take me to the nearest available Civilization Conditioning Treatment Center." At once, the cab took off. It was a silent and comfortable motion. Hal had always liked flying. The automatic pilot was speaking to him gently. "Central Authority advises that the nearest is in the metropolis of Knoxville. This requires transversing interurban wilderness." Hal frowned just slightly. He had never seen the interurban wilderness, of course, and had not the slightest desire to do so. That was chaos. He inquired, "How soon can the local Center take me?" "Three days, seven hours twenty minutes from reference time. Mark time... mark!" the robot announced the temporal point of reference. "Too long," Hal replied wearily. "Let's go to Knoxville. And shut off all outside views. I do not wish to see the chaos." The Aircab obediently turned and transposed through the suspend-field of the York metropolis Airdome. It was an effortless passing, since the field that constituted the wall structure of the Aircab was exactly in phase with that of the Airdome field. Both were Formair manufacture, of course. The pleasant, silent, effortless motion of the Aircab soon produced its usual somnolent effect on him, and he dozed comfortably off. He slept the entire trip. At Knoxville, he spoke to the Center Technician briefly, advising the master robot of the possibility of his altered economic status, and the matter was thoroughly checked by the computor at Central Authority. Every conceivable source of psychosomatic tension and internal conflict was studied, and suitable alterations on Hal's master curve plotted. The process took ten minutes, while Hal dozed under the soothing warmth of the examination cap. There was a crackling buzz, and it was over. He awoke immediately, and felt wonderful. No tension. No irritation. Not the slightest bit of his recent restlessness. Hal was delighted. On the way out of the cubicle, he encountered another Proprietor, and smiled at him with perfect, civilized mildness. "York," he ordered his Aircab. Once again, the sleek buttonshaped vehicle soared up through the Airdome and out over the interurban wilderness. Hal contentedly went to sleep right in the middle of the pilot's automatic rundown of flight data. raucous rattle from the control bank. Blinking his eyes sleepily, he said, "Please stop all that noise. What is the trouble?" A very unpleasant and notably ungentle voice replied, "Apologies sir. We are out of control. Aircrash has occurred." Aircrash! An almost unheard-of thing that sometimes happened to people who used inferior equipment like that produced by firms other than Form air. People were even known to be killed by it. "Report," he said quietly, then flinched a little at the raucous scratching of the speech mechanism. "Reference point... mark! Altitude eleven thousand three hundred seventy one feet. Velocity reduced to two hundred nine point nine miles per hour. Locus: seven hundred point eight miles from nearest civilized metropolis, which is York." The voice continued, but became unintelligible as the mangled circuits faltered. Seven hundred miles from civilization! Wilderness. Chaos; that settled it, of course. Hal smiled gently as he realized that he was about to die. A civilized man obviously could not be expected to survive in chaos. He observed that he was breathing more strenuously, and realized that it was the result of the rapid failure of the antigravity field. Never in his life had Hal been under the full force of the earth's mass field, but he knew the symptoms. Once he had been exposed to a one-half gee for a few hours. Very unpleasant, he recalled. The automatic pilot's unintelligible speech suddenly stopped altogether. There was a heavy, awkward lurch that threw Hal forward against the front panel. But before he struck it, the field generator failed completely, the panel ceased to exist, and Hal was flying through the air. He shut his eyes, and placidly waited for death. A moment later, he hit the ground sharply, rolled over and over, and lay still. He sighed heavily. Death? He had always fancied that death would be a complete absence of sensation, and no consciousness of effort whatever. Instead, his breath was coming in deep, heavy sighs, his head hurt, his arm was aching, and something was tickling his nose. "Come on, wake up," a voice said briskly. Hal opened his eyes and looked up at a golden-framed face. It was the face that had been speaking, and the pleasingly shaped lips now moved again. "You aren't hurt, you know. Just a little shaken up." Hal continued to stare at the woman for a moment, then muttered "Umph," and struggled to a sitting posture. It was a great effort in the unaccustomed full earth gravitational field. The woman was an Outlander, no doubt about it. That was evident from her highly spirited tone of voice. But as Hal looked around at the strange picture of undisturbed interurban wilderness, he found that most astonishingly he did not mind it. As a matter of fact, he rather liked her tone of voice. It was all very puzzling. "What happened?" he muttered heavily, his eyes moving back to the landscape and the small metal boxes which housed the now defunct suspend-field generators. "There must have been something wrong with your Aircab," she replied. "You crashed. The same way I did a couple days ago." The woman walked over to the generator boxes, picked them up and brought them back to where he was still sitting on the grass. "We'll need these," she explained. "There are emergency supplies inside them." Hal didn't move. She waited a moment, then said lightly, tossing her golden hair, "Come along now. We're way out in the wilderness, you know, and there aren't any robots to bring us our dinner." "Wilderness," Hal murmured. "That's right. Well, I guess we'll die here." "Oh nonsense!" She stamped her foot with impatience. "This would have to happen to me. Of all people to be stranded with in the wilderness, I have to get one of you insipid, gutless Proprietors." "Oh yes?" Hal said with unconscious anger, lurching to his feet. "Who's insipid and gutless? I'm considerably more civilized than you are." Quick surprise crossed her face as she listened. Hal continued his angry speech. "Why is it that all you savages always think you know how to live better than your superiors? If you are so clever, why aren't you civilized?" "Well, listen to him. You sound almost human." She was laughing at him! "Damn savage," he growled. He turned and strode purposefully away from her across the soft matting of grass. "Where do you think you are going?" she called. "Away from here," he replied. But the rapid pace in the unaccustomed gravity was very quickly taking his energy. His breath came in deep, labored gasps already, and he could scarcely move his feet. He stopped abruptly, and looked at the distant horizon. There was nothing in sight that indicated civilization. These regions had not been inhabited for two hundred and fifty years -- ever since the severance of the planetary colonies from political control by the motherland, and the settling of the Proprietors into their well-separated, civilized cities. The land was all owned by the Proprietors, but was unnecessary, and hence not used. He felt a light touch on his arm. "I'm sorry," she apologized softly. "I can understand you a little, but you're so completely under the influence of your horrible personality conditioning methods that you can't possibly understand me." "Who's under what influence?" Hal said in a valiant attempt to express his irritation, but his voice held the obvious weakness of fatigue. "You poor boy," she sympathized. "You don't sound very much influenced by it right now." At her words, Hal suddenly became aware of the unaccustomed vigor of his own emotions, and he was puzzled by it. But it seemed oddly unimportant for some reason. "How come you can handle this awful weight so easily?" he asked her. Her laughter was light and delightful. "We spend most of our lives under natural conditions, not under an antigravity machine. I've only been on Earth for a few months, visiting my father. But a lot of that time was spent out here in this beautiful wilderness." "Horrible chaos," he muttered. He glanced up and observed a mild, blue, cloud-studded sky. "Why it is blue, after all. Isn't it?" "What's blue?" "The skydome." She glanced up thoughtfully. "Of course it's blue. And this is not one of your artificial skys. This is the real thing. There's no artificial weather control out here, you know. You get natural sunlight, natural winds, storms, rain -- oh, lots of things." "Gahh," said Hal. "What makes you surprised at finding that the sky is blue?" "Probably because I never saw it before. The only time I ever heard of its being anything other than green was when an engineer we have working for us at the factory said it was blue." "Well, never mind the sky. Let's find some place where we can get a little shelter for the night." She began to lead him slowly along an animal trail to a cluster of trees on a nearby stream. She walked with the obviously delayed pace one takes with invalids, but Hal had a difficult time keeping up. Finally, she said, "Here's a pretty good place. Sit down next to that tree. You must be worn out." "Oooo," he groaned, reclining back against a broad, rough oak trunk, then stiffening painfully away from it again. "It doesn't fit," he mourned plaintively. "Now you're sounding silly again," she scolded. "Go on, lean back. There aren't any suspendfield lounges out here for you, so you take what you get." Obediently, he relaxed against the rough, twisting bark. He was very, very tired. On second thought, even this rugged seat was comfortable. He sighed heavily, and then looked pensively around again. "Oh well, what does it matter? We'll be dead soon." "Don't talk like that!" she snapped with annoyance. "Why?" he inquired listlessly. "Everybody knows a civilized human being can't possibly survive in the wilderness. That's why no one ever comes here. And I'd just as soon die right now, if you have The woman stared at him with a tight frown between her eyebrows. Then she shook her head with wonder. "How you people can call yourselves civilized is beyoiid me. You yourself don't seem so bad, except that you don't have any guts. They've trained it all out by now." "Please," begged Hal. "You sound like that uncouth engineer that works for us. Impertinent." "That what engineer?" she demanded spiritedly. "Who are you, anyway?" "I'm Webber. Hal Webber. The engineer is a savage -- oh sorry." He smiled weakly. "You're a savage, too. Guess you Outlanders don't regard yourselves as such." "No we don't," she snapped. "And if it weren't for us, you silly fools here on Earth would have died out long ago." "Outlanders are noted for their misplaced pride, of course," Hal commented with a mildness that was impelled by fatigue rather than civilized conditioning. "Oh are we now?" she said angrily, standing up and bending over him. "And who do you think you are, Lord Proprietor? Some humble god, perhaps? Let me tell you something, Hal Webber, I've heard about you. You know who I am? My name is Lois Bruchner. That uncouth engineer you just referred to happens to be my father." Hal was puzzled. "What on earth is the matter?" he asked. "Why are you so excited?" "You called my father uncouth." "Why get excited about that? After all -- " Hal gestured weakly, trying to reason with her, " -- it's only your father. I didn't say you were uncouth. Funny thing is -- I like you." "Suppose I called your father names?" she demanded, her lower lip protruding belligerently. "You can call him anything you like as far as I am concerned." Lois Bruchner stood there a moment, her mouth open in astonishment. Then she sat down beside him again quietly. "That's right," she murmured, "they even educate love out of you." Hal sighed heavily, and slid away from the tree onto the rough, rocky ground. It was painful, but he was so tired. His breath came in regular, deep sighs as he went to sleep. had constructed a kind of primitive lean-to shelter over him. Hal was amazed. The sheltering purpose of the structure was evident to him, and he was startled that she should have been able to design such a thing on the spur of the moment. She heard him stir and looked up from the fire she had built in front of the lean-to. "Hungry?" she asked. He was ravenous, but his muscles ached in every fibre. His wonder at her cleverness disappeared abruptly when he tried to move. He rolled over groaning and helpless. Immediately, she was at his side, pushing him back onto the bed of dry, fragrant grass she had put him on. "Now don't try to move around," she admonished. "Just a few days, and you'll be all right." "Oooo," Hal groaned. "This is awful." "There, there," she murmured solicitously. "I've made you some soup. You'll like it." "Soup," he groaned. "I want food. Good solid synthomeat. Don't you have any food?" "Solid food in your stomach so soon in this heavy gravity would kill you." She went away and returned quickly with a little cup and spoon, and proceeded to empty the container into his lax mouth a few drops at a time. After a while, he ceased his protesting. It was less painful to swallow the slop than to fight it. Very soon afterward, he lost consciousness. Later, he was again aware of his surroundings. He felt tremendously better, and observed with a peculiar satisfaction that it was morning. Funny sounds were in the air, which he eventually recognized as the cries of wild birds and insects. Insects? He blinked his eyes and struggled to a sitting position, and looked worriedly around. Insects can carry disease, he remembered. And wild animals were reported to be carnivorous. His clumsy motions awakened Lois, who had been sleeping beside him. Hal looked down at her with a vague wonder. Such a nice looking savage, he thought, as she popped open her eyes. She smiled a pleased morning smile at him and lazily stretched. "Hi," she said. "How do you fefel?" "Quite mild," Hal admitted with wonder. "Odd, too. That junk you fed me last night must have some very efficient drug in it." "Junk I fed you last night?" Lois echoed, sitting up. Then she laughed her amusement. "Oh, you mean that soup. That wasn't last night, Hal Webber. That was last week." "But -- I just woke up," he protested. "Yes." She smiled at him, reaching up and patting his cheek affectionately. "You've been a little delirious. Gravity trauma, very common. You get used to it fast, but that's one thing they didn't condition you to, I guess, and your conscious prompdy rejected the possibility." Sudden remembrance came to Hal of the agony it had been to move the last time he remembered trying it Cautiously he lifted an arm and flexed it. He glanced back at Lois, who was watching him with amusement. "It feels all right now. Heavy and clumsy, but no pain." "Good." She stood up and brushed her unruly hair away from her forehead. "I'll fix your breakfast just as soon as I take my bath, all right?" she said. Hal nodded absently. The stream was twenty yards away, and Lois walked quickly over to it. There she pulled her jumper over her head and dove into the crystal water. "Eeii, it's cold!" she shrieked. Her vigorous splashing threw sharp brilliance in the early morning sunlight. After a few minutes, she came out, letting the water dry on her soft, golden skin. Hal was watching her in openmouthed admiration. It was a most remarkable sensation, this pleasure at seeing her 'move in that lithe, supple way. He had never before experienced such a thing. As she came up on the grassy bank, she noticed his rapt gaze, and quickly snatched up her single garment and held it in front of her. "All right," she told him briskly. "You too. You're much too big for me to handle effectively, so you haven't had a decent bath since we got here. And it gets pretty hot during the day." Obediently, as if in a vic-spell, Hal stood up and walked to the water's edge, keeping his eyes on her. "Look where you're going," she said sharply, and he shook his head dazedly. He slowly removed his clothing, dropped it on the ground, and jumped into the water. That was the end of the spell The water was like ice, he howled like a wounded animal and tried to jump out again. But the gravity made him clumsy and he fell back with a great splash. He rose again, gasping and sputtering, making wild, awkward movements -- in a frenzy to get out of the excruciating coldness. Finally he was lying on the grass, panting and exhausted. Lois was standing over him, her pale blue eyes dancing with delight. "What a spectacle," she bubbled merrily. "You should have seen yourself. I sure wish I had a vic-o-graph with me. Such performances should be preserved." Unaccountably, Hal found himself gurgling like a delighted baby, and then laughing with her in loud, uncivilized guffaws. After a few minutes, they were both worn out with hilarity. Lois sighed. She gave him a brimming smile, and went en back to the lean-to. "Get your clothes on," she said. "I'll have some breakfast for you in a few minutes." it was not very good. It had come out of the standard emergency ration from the Aircab master units, and no power on earth could have made it very palatable. And the supply was nearly gone. "I don't know how we can get back," she said thoughtfully, as she chewed on a wafer. "Plenty of Aircabs go by -- I've seen a dozen or so during the past week. But nobody ever looks out of them except Outlanders, and there aren't many of us around. So there isn't any point in building a signal fire." Hal did not reply. He lay back on the grass, his belly full with unaccustomed satisfaction, staring at the blue sky. He decided that he still preferred green. "It's sort of a washed-out color," he murmured. "What?" "The sky. It's sort of pallid and weak-looking." "That's haze. But spoken like a big, strong man," she said lightly. And then wistfully added, "A pity they always take it out of you." Hal frowned, and looked down from the sky to the windblown dampness of her golden hair. "What do you mean by that?" he inquired. "Nothing." Her gaze returned modestly to her wafer, and she continued the former subject. "We were talking about getting back to what you call civilization, remember? Or do you prefer we become the new Adam and Eve lost in the wilderness?" she asked, her eyes dancing. "We could start a new primitive dynasty of plains savages." "Oh." Hal's mind came back to the immediate problem. "Oh, yes, that's right. We have to get back." He frowned a moment. "Well now, let's see. There're a number of emergency stations spotted around the interurban wilderness. Can't just remember where I learned about them -- must have been Treatment information." He thoughtfully picked up a stick and began drawing diagrams of maps in the loose soil. "There." He pointed with the stick. "One of them should be about two hundred miles north of where we are now, provided the automatic pilot of my Aircab was accurate in its final position fix." Lois was looking at the crude map when he glanced back up at her. There seemed to be a sadness in her expression. She nodded her head at the map. "From that it looks like those emasculating treatments do some good after all." "Don't talk like that," he reproved her. "The Civilization Conditioning Treatment is the basis of our culture." She started to speak, hesitated, and then blurted out, "What, precisely, does it do for you?" "Don't you know?" Hal asked astonished, and then answered his own question. "Oh, of course, Outlanders would hardly know much about civilized history. Well, before interplanetary exploration was started, there weren't any areas at all like this wilderness. The planet was much too crowded. The people lived in huge, contiguous cities and were incessantly battling with each other for economic survival, social survival and animal survival. The vast majority of the population couldn't stand it. They developed all kinds of psychogenic illnesses. The impact of the uncontrolled inclinations of individuals meeting the absolute self-control them. "Then, gradually, the Civilization Conditioning process was developed. What happened then was just what you would expect -- the people who took the Treatments were so much better adapted to civilized living conditions that the others simply didn't have a chance. Just as soon as planetary colonies were opened up, the savages were all shipped off. There were a lot of riots and small-scale wars for a while, but eventually the superior conditioning of the civilized people won out. "After things had stabilized again, anyone who wanted to was permitted to become an Earth citizen, but he had to take the Treatment, and keep it up. But by that time, most savages had a lot of peculiar prejudices against it, so the population of Earth has remained very small. The robotic defenses of the Proprietors protected the planet from further invasion, and now the robotic police maintain order everywhere in the system. "Of course, the planets are extremely poor in natural resources, so we supply the basic material, even though we relinquished political control long ago. The colonies pay us by sending unusually gifted technicians like your father to work for us. Naturally, Outlanders have no rights, whatsoever, here. Not even the right to life or freedom or payment of the material allotment. But unless they commit a crime or otherwise interfere with the Proprietors, there is not the slightest danger of being molested by any citizen, because citizens are civilized." Hal stopped his history lecture and looked back up at her. "The Treatment is responsible for the entire rational order of our culture, as you probably know." "But look how insipid it makes you all," she burst out. "You're so weak and wishy-washy. There isn't a noble or even a strong sentiment in your entire society." "That is how the process works. It is nothing but a series of checks and balances artificially installed in the subconscious which make strong sentiments unnecessary, and which prevent unstable activity. The result is a perfectly smooth existence with no ups or downs, and a perfect cooperation between civilized people." Lois thought this over for a moment. Then she asked curiously, "How do you account for the fact that you -- after all the Treatments you have taken -- are so different from other Proprietors? You, well -- " she stumbled, blushing a little " -- you seem perfectly normal in your reactions." Hal shook his head. "I don't know. Maybe my last Treatment had an error in it." But he shook his head again at that idea, because the computor at Central Authority never made mistakes. "It i c Qtranp'p " "I think It's wonderful." She smiled at him with quick radiance. Hal grinned happily back at her, feeling an alien surge of joy as he looked at the smile and at her. "Well, whatever it is, for the next few months or so it looks like we'll be savages in fact." long time walking north to their destination. It was a remarkably satisfying experience for Hal. And it was for Lois, too, as she pointed out to him the night after they found the emergency station. There was a small Formair shelter at the place, and a simple automatic distress transmitter which was set in operation by one push of a button. Symbols marked on the case of the transmitter assured them that assistance would be forthcoming within twelve hours. It was their first night in a civilized shelter, and their last night together in the wilderness. Early the next morning, an Authority Aircab came humming swiftly down to the meadow where they were waiting. Once inside the Aircab, Hal became taciturn and thoughtful, but Lois was not disturbed. She talked enough for both of them. Hal luxuriated in the pleasant reawakened rapport with the things of civilization. Back at the city, they went to Bruchner' s residence, and Lois' father rushed outside to greet them. Lois ran happily to him, embracing him, and volubly explaining how wonderful Hal was, how he had saved her from being gobbled up by a lot of wild animals, and how strong he was, and sundry other affectionately innocuous exaggerations. Hal looked curiously on for a few minutes in idle wonder at the strange attachments of Outlanders. Then Lois proudly pulled him over next to her. "Isn't he wonderful? And we're in love -- oh, so much in love." "Lois," Bruchner mumbled unhappily. "There are some things you have to be told. I should have told you before -- " "You don't have to tell me anything," she bubbled happily. "You can say all you want to about the Proprietors, but this one is different. He's -- he's real!" Hal laughed diffidently, and moved a little further away from her. He gazed around at the city, recognizing it with thirsty familiarity, happily part of it again. The experience of the past three months already seemed far away. "Hal," Lois murmured, suddenly aware of his rapidly growing coolness. "Hal, darling, what's wrong?" "Why nothing at all, uh, Lois." He looked at her uncomfortably for a moment, and backed a step further. "It's just -- well, you know." "Oh no you don't," she cried, rushing up to him and grabbing his arm. "Where are you going -- Dad!" "Please, Miss Bruchner," Hal murmured mildly, disengaging his arm from her. He gazed hungrily around him again the moment she let go, and looked back at her only when he was startled by a sudden, choking sob. Lois was staring at him, her fist to her mouth, the pale blue eyes brimming. "Oh no!" she cried tremulously. "Lois," Bruchner said, his voice sounding harsh with repressed emotions, "come in here. You've got to know what the situation is." He put his arm around her trembling shoulders and led her off, glaring at Hal in helpless fury. The moment they were out of sight, Hal turned and stepped back into the Aircab. He ordered it to take him home. His parents were there, watching a vic-entertainment, which Hal promptly turned off. "Who did that?" his father mumbled, coming immediately out of the trance. "Hal? That wasn't a very nice thing to do, son." "Why Hal," his mother sighed mildly. "You're not dead after all. How nice. Don't pay any attention to your father -- it wasn't a very interesting vie anyway." "Shouldn't turn it off like that, though." "Um, sorry," Hal apologized gently. He relaxed into the comfortable, perfect fit of a Formair lounge. "Just thought I'd let you know I'm still alive." "Well, we're glad," his mother murmured absently. "Must have been pretty awful." "That's the funny thing about it, though -- I didn't mind it a bit at the time. Very curious. I had an Outlander woman with me -- Bruchner's daughter, as a matter of fact." "Oh dear," Mrs. Webber sighed. "Poor Hal." "Well, like I say, it wasn't exactly mild, but it was quite tolerable, somehow." He frowned just slightly, and shook his head at the puzzling incongruity. He recalled his three months of association with the uncivilized woman, somewhat wistfully contemplating strong, overpowering sentiments in a chaotic wilderness. "Anyway," he said at last, "I'm home again, and it's all over. I won't have to have anything to do with her now." "Yes," Mrs. Webber murmured. "Odd that you should have survived though, isn't it? I thought a civilized man in the wilderness would die almost at once." Webber gave the cultured equivalent of a mild snort. "Of course he could survive. Oh -- " and he laughed softly in apology " -- that's right. I forgot to tell you about that." The eyes of his wife politely turned to him and he explained. "A couple of weeks after our son here apparently had been killed, I happened to run into an Authority physician. I mentioned it to him, just in passing. He told me that there was a factor in the CG Treatment that provided for such things. "It seems that the Civilization Conditioning they give you is only designed to enable a man to survive in a city. In order for the conditioning to function, you have to have that civilized urban environment. Once the environment is removed, the conditioned complex has nothing to react against, and the man immediately becomes almost -- but not quite -- as savage as a typical Outlander. "That way, a civilized man can always manage to live in the wilderness, given half a chance. Once he gets back into a city again, the proper, civilized environment is returned, the conditioning starts functioning immediately and presto! -- the man is civilized again." "Well now, that's nice," Mrs. Webber said placidly. "Wouldn't like to see my boy dead." (Continued on page #) Such magnificent gifts as these were undoubtedly intended for Mankind. But those who possess them are rare indeed, while those who fear the unknown are legion they were different As secretary , receptionist and general nursemaid to them I took it upon myself to dig back through the news files and get enough clips to tell their history from birth until they opened the school . You've all read it so there's no need to go into details about their strange life and still stranger birth . Nor their magnificent education or still more magnificent gifts . It's true , every bit of it; their telepathic and were the only births like them to survive to maturity and beyond . During the last contact I had with them (I was their first and most advanced pupil) it came as pure inspiration to take down their transmissions in the special short, shorthand we developed for use among the pupils and ourselves . What follows may be added to the story told by the news clips, differing only in person. I have added nothing in translation of the notes. # P kmU Mg iia  WiZiwAhttity I fmmMt KpwhWtH mAwfowk pw. M 'tyi wmi wms WittM Mi s ; ,x i'vn Vs  ."iV"." :# ? m t A E W WW Wt' gjjgggl KSjfti #W#'#'  fa Illustrated by Paul Orban leaving the narrative as disjointed as they gave it. The events are as they transmitted them, as they lived them . I was in contact with them until -- but read, and when you're through reading do as I do every night . Pray. And hope -- for mankind . sible that three grand, successful years of work could end so suddenly with us lying in a ditch casional bullet fired from the guns of friends but there it is. God, what a complicated being this socalled modem man is! He seems to be born cloaked with complexities which get even more complex as he grows. No wonder he has been so long on the road, being engaged in a continual battle between ethics and emotions as he has. So here we are, the bridge, the first rungs of a ladder leading to a new and delightful plane of existence for all mankind, wallowing in the mud of an irrigation ditch instead of glorying in the divine world of the mind. If we can but make them see! Maybe the professors were right when they told us to teach under the protection of the university instead of hardheadedly going out on our own. Princess, do you remember Lucille? She was our best pupil, after you, of course. She's the one who turned over the stone that freed our personal gremlin. Oh, it's not really her fault, though she did break our one and only cardinal rule by bringing in an outsider herself instead of leaving such choices to us. Actually the fault was ours because -- well, who knows? That wonderful control we practiced for so many years slipped, no matter the reason. It was just one of those inexplicably foolish things people will do when they think they're in love. Guess we thought we could save her some embarrassment or some such thing. You had just left on a long vacation when that one showed up. He was the man that Lucille brought up with her as a prospective pupil, the one that -- one wing of them is closing in on us now. Kitten. We'll have to try for the swamp ahead of us. We'll have to lose them for a while if we want time to figure a way out, though we aren't really very good at this sort of cat and mouse game. We can give our own boys a little credit, though. They aren't really trying to hit us. They shoot well enough to be able to make it look very good. All we really have to worry about is Thurlow and his trained deputy, Trainor. There, that was nice. The sheriff himself just spotted us and started a pincer movement -- fifty yards in back of us. Good old boy. Hope he doesn't get in trouble over us. At last! If this patch of swampy it we're made, providing the highway troopers of this state don't get too smart and take over the operation. Our sheriff is in charge so far. Lord, if we only weren't so tired! Anyhow, Lucy brought Thurlow in and we gave him the usual treatment. The only trouble is we overdid it slightly and it scared him. Besides telling him what he had for told him its contents and when he reached for it in a sort of stunned reflex action we levitated it into his hand. It was a pretty big mistake in view of the fact that he was one of that bunch that was fairly sensitive mentally, but whom we couldn't read thoroughly. We could telepath only the very surface of his mind. He would have made a wonderful adept with the proper training. He was awed but shocked and scared, too. It was outside his realm of experience and he was superstitious in spite of his fine education. Some folks don't let learning sink in to open the rusty locks of prejudice and inhibition. He said things that bared his mind as surely as if we had read him. It wasn't a pretty mind, either. It made us sick physically and the impulses that did come through were deep and angry, giving us a terrific headache and making it hard to concentrate. Later we followed him but still couldn't read him for the anger flashes blotted out his thought stream thoroughly. To him, what we were doing just couldn't happen in good old #. We were dealing in the black arts and he told us as much, refusing to listen to reason in any shape. The fact that everyone has these capabilities latent was altogether lost on him. Our licenses, diplomas and degrees meant less than nothing and the longer he went on the more rabid he got, frothing obscenely about such things as tampering with forces better left alone and man thinking with his brains instead of letting the Prince of Darkness do it for him. Had it not been so serious it would have been almost slapstick. Instead he was tragic. When he got to the part about children with our loathsome disease he ran out of expletives and stormed out of the office in a cloud of anger and fright, muttering that we hadn't heard the last of him. Lucy, of course, was heartsick. We didn't have to tell her what the meeting had meant. Nor did Thurlow's wallet. She found that out during the rather abortive lesson we tried to give her for she read as we interrupted it (that shows how much off beam we were because we just don't do that) to take a phone call from Casey down at the sheriff's office. Our visitor, Thurlow, was District Judge Thurlow of District Two, a very high man on the law enforcement pole. Casey was good. He'd listened in while Thurlow was complaining to the sheriff and apparently heard the sheriff read the judge off politely but nonetheless firmly, telling him first how valuable we were to the force when it came to interrogating hard-to-crack suspects and as long as we hadn't committed murder or rape or passed any bum checks there was nothing to be done. Especially since the judge His Honor was out of his district! Fortunately we were in District One over which our mutual friend, Judge Kimball, presides. Incidentally, Kimball was still under doctor's care at the time due to his latest heart attack. He was getting along quite well but he was old and his days on the bench were pretty well numbered. Casey thought that District One might conceivably have to appoint a new judge to hold them over until election due to the fall court calendar. As it turned out that didn't happen. Br-r-r! Princess, don't ever let anyone tell you that swamp water can't get cold in summertime. We've got the shakes pretty bad both from our ordeal and from chill. Getting uncomfortably hungry, too. That's what comes of letting an inferior enemy panic you. We certainly haven't acted as though we had better sense. It's just another of those imponderables to chalk up for study. After Casey's call the air seemed to be cleared and under that driving compulsion which has never left us we went on about the business of trying to succeed with nature since she had succeeded so well with us. The study of the deep processes of the mind eclipsed the next two days and only the terrible jangle of that outmoded telephone brought us to the surface again. It's too bad that we had to converse orally with the great masses of the untrained. It's so slow and they could learn so easily. It was Casey again, telling us we were needed down at the station. He was apparently calling us on blind orders, for he couldn't tell us what was up. Figuring that we had another prisoner to crack we closed classes and drove down. The sheriff seemed mystified, too, and just slightly troubled. We could read that much off the surface of his mind, but he was upset enough to make the rest of his thoughts a meaningless jumble of impulses. All he knew was that we were wanted in the judge's chambers. You guessed it, Honey. It was ball on an emergency hearing and he figured it was his duty to mankind to give us a little talking to while he was there. After all, the good of the community was his concern now, and he chose to interpret that as the opportunity to place his narrow little views on record. Trainor, the sheriff's deputy faithful only to the judge, because of a favor granted while he served in Thurlow's district, was very busy signing his name to something when we walked into the chambers. It gave us a peculiar feeling to see Thurlow sitting at Kimball's desk. It bore out our theory about a room taking on the personality of its occupant. This room was no longer warm and friendly. The only thing we could read from Thurlow was a self-righteous anger and a solemn, nasty vow to fight us to the last ditch -- which, incidentally, he has done for that irrigation ditch is the last one we ever wish to occupy. That water was miserably cold. Three guesses what Trainor was signing. Of all things, a complaint charging us with questionable educational technique! The one thing not covered by license, as Thurlow made haste to confirm through the State House, and by Trainor's complaint, the one way we could legally come into his hands. It was a dainty little frame but unbreakable. Spreading a sweet legal shovel he asked us questions that minutely covered every phase and method of our teaching, then smiled a nasty smile, the while fixing his own signature to another wisp of terribly binding paper. A restraining order. The words of which forbade us to teach! We were to suspend our life's work or suffer the punishment for contempt of court because of a narrow-minded, righteously wrathful mental prude! How can you fight something like that? Thurlow was the last and highest branch of authority in the area unless we took it to Supreme Court. For a while we were tempted to do that but on what were we to base a case? Public opinion would throw us out of court if the Supreme Justice didn't. We talked to the sheriff when we came down and he and his boys were on our side -- emotionally. Legally they had to carry out the judge's orders to place us under institutional restraint if we transgressed. In short, we would be tossed in the pokey if we thumbed our noses at the order. The sheriff's advice was to suspend operations until Supreme Court sat and take it to them. When we asked if he and his staff would be witnesses for us -- well, that's water under the oft mentioned bridge. There are some ugly facets of politics that force the men playing them to act as they do. Otherwise we surely wouldn't have been refused. So there we were; no witnesses -- no case; because we couldn't bring our pupils into it. It was an uncertain mess at best and we didn't want them to get it in the neck along with us. For the same reason we couldn't involve our former teachers at the university. What poor payment for hours of drudgery to be dragged into a court battle ! So with the sheriff's advice to go into another business ringing in our ears, we came back home to sweat it out and think. It took a while, but the only answer we felt was right under the circumstances was to go underground. That makes it sound like the dark ages, doesn't it. Princess, when knowledge has to hide and creep and skulk instead of flowering under the sun? Our gifts couldn't be let go to waste, not after the preparation and development that went into expanding them into a workable set of psychic senses. We had to give Man the benefit of our awakening by waking him in turn. It's much too bad that we were so sheltered at the university. We might have had some practical experience with the world and its people. We might also have known what to do about this awful hunger that is gradually tearing us down. It's getting to be a serious problem in our untrained condition. The prof's wouldn't even let us play handball for fear of injury so consequently we're nothing but a living cliche, skin and bones. Donald feels it strongly. We shall have to try to buoy each other and go on our combined reserves. Pray that we don't get too weak. It's been almost # hours since we've eaten, as there wasn't time for breakfast. Our clothes seem to be drying slightly though it's still cool enough to make it uncomfortable and dangerous. This is the way colds grab you. We did pretty well in our choice of an underground location -- we thought. Our mistake was in overlooking the police trained mind of our bloodhound friend, Trainor. He's a shrewd man and not unintelligent though sadly misguided. How we should like to have him on our side! In five days of sniffing around he had us located, and in another, he had enough proof of activity to report to Thurlow and come after us with a bench warrant of arrest. It's peculiar that we couldn't stall him or dodge him some way with our much touted IQ, but probably we were still too naive about human relations and most assuredly unversed in the devious twistings of the police mind. After all, though we're twenty-six years old, our experience with people put us in about the three year old class. So you see? Were it to begin all over again the outcome would be different. We would be more practical and worldly. You learn. There was no sense fighting him, because he had the law enforcement agencies of the whole state in back of him. All he had to do was whisper "Sic 'em" and we were dead. So we went along quietly to see Thurlow and that dear man took a singularly fiendish delight in imposing an impossible fine on us for contempt of court Our particular transgression wasn't definitively covered by law so neither was the fine. The fact that Thurlow was fining us for teaching methods instead of the contempt charge didn't dawn on us until just yesterday. How completely ignorant can you get? He gave us a pretty, selfrighteous speech about the good of the community and a judge's place in it, mentioning in passing that everything wasn't covered by law so it was up to the judge to handle matters as he saw fit. That was what he was trained and elected for and that was what he was doing. Nothing personal, understand. As it was, and well he knew it, we couldn't begin to pay the fine so we were informed that we'd have to sit it out in the county jail at the rate of two dollars a day. The fine was five hundred dollars. The sheriff almost cried when he found we were to be taking advantage of his hospitality. Very likely the full injustice of the judge's complacent little scheme finally got through to him. At any rate, sympathy or not, we had eight months and ten days to serve with time off possible for good behavior. That's where you found us when you finished your vacation and discovered you were temporarily out of a job. Donald took quick advantage of a prisoner's rights to telephone Judge Kimball. He was still in bed but sounded fairly strong. His consternation over our new address was touching and real, but we were sadly informed that ethically the whole matter was beyond him. When Thurlow sat in for him in his district, then Thurlow was law and no reversal could be had outside of the due process of that law through a higher court. He, Kimball, could do nothing until he could get back on the bench. That might be several weeks yet as he wasn't to get out of bed or get excited in any way. We hung up and had our first look at the familiar cells from the prisoner's viewpoint. The change in oudook was subtle but definite. The walls looked grayer. Hope we're not boring you with all this, Kitten, but we must tell it to someone and you are closest and dearest to us. You missed out on nearly all our doings after we in process. Someone should have the full story although what good it will ever do is debatable. Perhaps at some future time we can do something with it -- if we get out of the present jackpot. Got to move. The state police have taken over the operation and our sheriff is relegated to the role of visiting fireman. It's lamentable that we aren't in his bailiwick. Things might work out better. These troopers are very efficient. don around our end of the swamp. All we can do is head through its length now. Trainor is with them. Thurlow has joined them also. We get a tiny jab of pain as we pass over him. That impossible man! Naturally our pupils fell off, thinking the school completely shut down, until you visited us and were able to pass the word that discreet visits wouldn't go unrewarded. Only a few drifted back for deeper learning and expansion, as you know. One happy thing about the others who were afraid to come back is that they would still make progress, having once been awakened, though it would be infinitely slow and groping. The nucleus that sat with us on those once a week school days grew stronger very rapidly, for knowledge is cumulative and progressive, and they began to realize what they in turn had to do when they were ready. Credit must be given their strength of mind for seeing and accepting such a responsibility with the enthusiasm they showed. It was too good to last. Trainor's turn at afternoon shift came around and lasted the usual month which gave him plenty of opportunity to watch us like a hawk. He did. We were cautious but we couldn't know what he was watching for, because he didn't know either. He found out one afternoon. Visitors just don't come around and merely sit -- staring at each other or the walls. We learned another lesson from that: men with as much training as he had don't always consciously think things out with their surface minds. Their reactions became instinctive and as such, untraceable by the most adept telepath. We knew he was there to spy but that's about all. The net result was a direct order from Thurlow cutting off not only all visitors, but as Trainor gleefully advised us, cancelling all accrued days off for good behavior. That's five days a month in this state and it was almost unbearable. The thorough injustice of the whole affair was beginning to gall mightily, getting under our rather thin skin in many places. What seemed the final crushing blow was the news that filtered in to us from Judge Kimball's court reporter. He'd taken word to the sick man about our latest loving treatment by Thurlow and it angered Kimball enough to make him get out of bed -- too soon. He died on the floor of his bedroom. So, not only do we lose a dear friend, but also any chance of his assistance. Thurlow would now sit for District One until election time. That put us entirely on our own resources. After much deliberation, we decided to give in and go back to the university when our sentence was up and take advantage of its sheltering walls for our teaching. We would be absorbed into the faculty and soon all this unpleasantness would pass over. How we passed the time until our release is unimportant to anyone but us. During the remaining months, we delved farther and farther into the mind and gained a much deeper insight into the workings of these gifts we had. Man could be so powerful and work so much for his own good -- if he could only be made to realize the potential in his mind! He could even be happy. The bright day came at last, and we walked out of our cell free to begin again. It was raining a gray rain outside, but to us the weather had never looked brighter. As we reached for the sheriff's phone to call the university, Trainor sidled up and laid a scrap of paper on the desk. A glance was enough to make us hang up on the uncompleted call. It was another restraining order. After that we tried to find work on the outside, but it was a sorry failure. The curse of being different is a mighty one indeed. No one seemed to care that we had feelings the same as others and that we could get just as hungry and thirsty without funds to buy. Ahh! There it is again. Those words. Hunger and thirst. As if we needed a reminder. Donald is getting weaker in perception. He has always been the first to feel such things and we've never been able to trace the reason. We certainly have no -- I interject at this point, for telepathic contact with them broke un explainably . I prayed for their safety for I suddenly knew what it would mean to lose them . What a drab, dreary, bigoted world it would be without them to teach us and help us. God, that was a bad half hour, Puss. These troopers are so well trained that they're more telepathically dead than you can imagine. First, Donald was so weak he let one of them sneak up close enough for a quick rifle shot. It missed, but of course it told exactly where we were. Donald exerted ing that we had enough time to work on the trooper if we hurried. Normally we'd be no match for him but desperation can work wonders. We resorted to a base form of trickery by affecting to surrender to him. When he came up to put the cuffs on us, we played dirtier by offering him a knee that will keep him from attending his wife for a few days. Rotten trick, but we couldn't afford to let him get his hands on us or it would have been all finished. That makes another count against us. We left his rifle out of reach and ran. Fortunately the others milled around for a precious minute or two when they found him, giving us still more time. Before they got moving again, we broke cover and made it across a county road into a farmer's barn where we burrowed into the hay. We'll stay here a while to rest. Not being the athletic type we sure need it. To go back, our small supply of money was running dangerously low in spite of miserly budgeting. We didn't know what to do outside of robbing a bank to get more. Then it happened. We were browsing through the library one day, when Donald not yet filed hoping to turn up something new. The stack was mixed, holding such things as a treatise on grinding optical lenses, a copy of "Gone With the Wind", a couple of western novels, a thin edition of "The Purloined Letter" and several volumes for the home craftsman. Evidently some newlyweds were doing things to their well mortgaged dream house. On the way home, Donald's idea burst in on both of us like some monstrous flashbulb. With our minds being so perfectly tuned through constant work during the had immediately and what one once. It was a fine working agreement and became as habitual as breathing. Donald's idea was beautiful for all that it was lifted from another man. Its application was what burnished it to that bright luster of originality. We would go to work in a carnival! If a man could hide a letter in an open letter rack, where better could we be hidden but in a carnival? It was wonderful. We had no trouble getting into one. The owner took one look at what we could do and told us the answer mentally by wondering how little he could offer and still get us. It gave us a certain bargaining point but at our stage of the game all we wanted was in. The thought crossed our minds that we might be lowering our station in life but we were past caring. And of course we found out how wrong we were, that "station in life" is just a point of view. To outsiders carnies are a hard lot, interested in nothing but the quickest way to part the suckers from a dollar. Well, they were hard, to outsiders, but to those inside there is a difference. We found some mighty fine people and some very fertile minds. We enjoyed the first real security we'd known for a long time. We found friendship and a certain amount of fame as moneymakers for the show. We got a raise after working on the boss for a while. Best of all we lost ourselves in the bustle of the show. Shortly after our admission into the ranks of the carnies, we felt safe enough to put out feelers (we were out of the state by then), mental this time, prodding small ideas into the best minds, giving them the urge to ask us questions of a leading nature and so eventually we began another class in telepathy, Esp, and their related subjects. As we traveled from state to state we picked up new pupils from other shows and lost others to the same shows, but the running count was about twenty most of the time. We had to be so very careful in our selections for fear of a repetition of our former mishaps, but it went well. We made no mistakes and turned out some fine pupils, one in particular. He progressed fast enough in the short time we had him to become acutely adept, and when we told him he was ready to teach he accepted it by leaving the carnival to settle down with a home and wife. It was good to see the fruit of our work being put into practice. Next season, we found that in the first pass across the country we were booked for the north end of our home state. For the first time in nearly two years we would be on almost familiar ground. You know what happened then, Baby. You ought to. You were the one we contacted. Telepathy is a lot better than a telephone, isn't it? What you might not know is that our contact with you was another step in this whole sickening drama. How were we to suspect that the train ticket agent was one of those tenacious, bespectacled fellows who doggedly chewed on an idea until it made sense to him? Who would know that he was one of those spiteful, small people who enjoyed doing his civic duty as he saw it? He wondered why so many people were taking the same train on the same day to the same place, when it had never happened before. People just don't travel three hundred miles to take in a one horse carnival. Being a small town he knew most of the folks by name -- or at least by sight -- and he recalled that you, sweet, were once our secretary. Imagine the excitement he felt at having such a momentous thing happen in his dull and uneventful life. How best to savour the taste of it? Why, call the sheriff, naturally. Oh, it must have been delicious. Let's hope he enjoys the memory. With our luck it was out of the question to have anyone but Trainor answer the phone -- and swing into high gear. Apparently Judge Thurlow had run for District One during the election and made it, giving up his own stamping grounds for some reason. It hardly seems possible that he'd do it just on the hope that we might decide to come home and set up shop. No man could be that vindictive, could he? Or are we still much too naive to be allowed out without a keeper? Who knows? We do know that the group was followed by Trainor and another man at Thurlow's orders; and when they saw all of you meet at a certain tent in back of the midway all they had to do was sneak close enough to hear that there was exactly nothing going on! We were all so excited at seeing each other that their presence went unnoticed. Besides, what need to exercise caution when there wasn't an unfriendly face within miles? When Trainor made his telephone call to get the permission to arrest us on the strength of another bench warrant Thurlow prepared in a hurry, his emotions penetrated our little circle; but not soon enough for everyone to get out safely. It all happened so suddenly that our lifelong control snapped. The persecution was so sneaking and so needless! It didn't take long to dispose of the two deputies. Desperation again and thick anger. We lost no time in trussing them solidly and leaving them unconscious. After it was over, we realized what a deadly game it had suddenly become. We were in deep trouble again -- deeper than any that had gone before. And we needed time, lots of it. Take our word for it. Kitten, and stay underground during any time you and the others may teach. It's your duty to use care, because you certainly won't be able to advance your state of learning or help others while under detention. Keep in touch with the others. Your ranks will fill, if you can succeed undetected until it's time to come into the open. Don't get into our fix; don't be forced into breaking the law. We didn't break it by teaching supposedly Satanic courses but by ignoring the restraining order, then by beating up the police and running. Running wasn't too bad in itself, but it made it tougher when in our shocked haste we took a car that didn't belong to us. Then, too, we shouldn't have taken it across the state line. That made it a federal offense. Even if the troopers get us, we shall first be guests of Lordy, this hay is dry. It's sweet smelling and comfortable lying here but it's dry and dusty. It'll be too bad if nature gives us away through a tickling nose. We can do without her tricks now. trough in back of the barn. We must take a chance on it. This raging thirst is as crippling as the lack of food. We drove in a huge circle and left the car well before morning; continuing on foot in the general direction of our friend who had left the carnival to teach. It was our hope to be able to stay there until things cooled down. We finally made it, tired and hungry, and got the welcome we expected. He was overjoyed to see us. You'll never know how cosy and warm that house felt or how utterly good was the smell of baking bread. His wife is a jewel. We received a jolt the next morning before breakfast. The neighbor's little girl came bursting Into the house in what apparently was her normal fashion while we were teaching a small class that our friend had collected. She was extraordinarily sensitive and our combined minds made a terrific impact on her perception before we could control it. Her eyes opened and she was all for broadcasting to every child in the block, but Donald got us through a sticky moment. He made it her own personal secret in a way that only children can appreciate and then showed her one of the it at once for children are extraordinarily susceptible to instruction. Their minds haven't had the chance to get cluttered by inhibitions and conventional thoughts. She was wide-eyedly delighted and promised her cross-my-heart promise that no one would ever know about us. But of course, they did. Parents being what they are, it was foolish to assume that an untrained child could keep the signs of her adventure from them. The signs pointed to a story and it didn't take them long to pry it out of her. It wasn't the girl's fault. The adult odds were against her. They poked and prodded at her for the cause of her overly bright eyes and animated spirit, until the poor child was overwrought and blurted out the details of her immense find. The mother was at once sympathetic to her and us, bless her, but not so the father. They both knew she wasn't imagining it because of the stories they'd heard of us over the years and the father blew up. We could sense the whole tableau telepathically, dreading the outcome, knowing what it must be. The father stormed about the house crying death and destruction on us, while the mother tried to get him to listen to reason. He was mentally incapable of doing it. He, like so many of the others, was terribly frightened at the unknown, fearsome thing in their midst. It was unthinkable that we should stay free of captivity when there were places for people like us! We shouldn't be allowed to mingle with normal, decent folks. The upshot was a long distance, collect phone call to the judge who doubtless accepted the charges quite happily. We couldn't stay, so we turned to run once more. That's about all there is, Princess. We've run until we can hardly run any more. We're weak and hungry and sickened by the hatred and stupid, active resistance surrounding us. We don't blame the police. They're merely doing what they are paid to do. through the swamp in a wide semicircle and a few thoughts are leaking through the jumble of shouted orders and mixed impulses. Trainor and the judge are right with them. He seems to be talking earnestly to Trainor but his hatred and anger blot everything out -- we can get nothing from him. Donald is getting weaker, but we must stir to get water and try to leave before they see this bam. Here the narrative broke once more for more than an hour, leaving me in an agonized, hopeless suspense, knowing there was no way to help them. Occasionally I sensed a faint stirring in my mind as though they were trying to get through to me and once a deep stab of sorrow amounting almost to pain. It was getting quite late in the evening before they came through once more, weakly but still clearly and coherently . It's hard to concentrate. The ambulance is jerking and bounding along and the pain is frightful. Looking back, there was no other way for it to end. They were too many and too dedicated, while we were only us and on the run, not even on the defensive. Our physical weakness became painfully apparent when we cautiously ventured out back to find the water trough, drank, and stumbled away from our pursuers for a quarter of a mile right into the hands of six waiting state policemen. We'd been so intent on the men in the swamp, so blanketed by Thurlow's hate, and so tired that we didn't sense the danger from another direction in the form of a flanking movement. The operation was the end for us. They all had drawn weapons, but when they saw our sad state they rather sheepishly put them away and took us almost gently in hand. We're getting weaker. Unconsciousness is near again. Would that we could have stayed with them! Instead, one picked up a walkietalkie and called in our capture. Even in the turmoil of the moment we could pick up flashes of amazed, frightened and curious thoughts as many of them saw us for the first time. Funny how the mind will act at times of stress, making one an observer of one's own actions, so to speak. Another phase opened for study! Thurlow thanked the state men brusquely and said he and his deputies would take over, airily ignoring extradition procedure. The police chief and our sheriff were dubious about the course events were taking, but didn't want trouble so they offered no active resistance. We were too tired to care any more. That was our third mistake, to lose our alertness completely. Had we been quick enough -- but no, we couldn't have avoided it. The old story of trained men reacting without conscious thought. Apparently in accordance with previous instruction, Trainor and his helper began jostling us viciously but expertly, making it appear as though we were trying to escape. Before we realized our danger, we heard a cry of warning from the sheriff and a vindictive shout from Thurlow. It still rings in our ears. "Do your duty, Trainor. They're escaping!" Trainor's reflexes jarred him into action and it was over for us almost before it began. It hurt then, but the pain is worse now and total blackness is closing in once more. Fighting it off gets increasingly difficult, alone as I am. You see, Donald has just died, quietly. He's escaped them, but that leaves the fight to me. It won't last long. The load is too much for one alone. The one bright feature is the fact that our work was begun. Stay with it, darling, and carry on for us -- please know that you had all our love. Goodbye, Princess. Almost exactly one minute later they arrived at the hospital . I was so numb with grief and sorrow that I didn't withdraw contact, hoping against hope that they , he, would transmit once more . He did, unconsciously . Seconds later the words of two interns drifted through his open mind to mine . "One D. O. A., one dying fast. My God, Rex, why couldn't they leave the poor devils alone? Why couldn't they -- " Rex sounded bitter. "You know the answer to that, Tom. They were different so they didn't belong."    I i #  I Since man's timepieces are pretty inaccurate and absolute   measurement is impossible, a search for the ideal time standard I  with a fundamental relation to the nature of the universe has I  been going on. Recently the National Bureau of Standards de  veloped such a clock, based on the internal vibrations of atoms   within molecules. These vibrations, unlike those of a pendulum   or crystals, are uninfluenced by external conditions and are inde I pendent of the Earth's rotation.   The atomic clock is based on the vibrations of ammonia mole  cules. When radio waves are transmitted through a tube of am  monia gas, the inversion of the molecules occurs more frequently   if the radio waves have the exact microwave frequency at which   the apex atom is vibrating. The energy of the radio waves is I  measured after they have passed through the tube; if maximum I  energy is absorbed the system is precisely in tune. Such a clock   With such an atomic clock, it should be possible to study scienI I tific and practical problems of great importance, from the imI  provement of navigation to a check on the relativity theory.   Atomic time will no doubt become the international scientific I I standard.   Our citation this month goes to the National Bureau of Stand  ards for its work in creating a universal time standard which   would hold good even if we should colonize Mars or Venus.  Parker was a trouble maker wherever they landed . But here was the planet ideal, a chance he had awaited a long , long time -- easy, like taking candy from a baby... i stood apart at the edge of the village, a white cube with no windows. The door stood open, a dark hole against the white brick. The house was silent. The village beyond was silent. "They must have seen us land," Compton said, a little wildly. "You can't set down a rocket ship a hundred yards from somebody and not have them notice. They must have seen us!" "Unless no one lives here," Parker amended. "This may be a ghost city." "He's right," Hinckley agreed. "There might not be anyone living here, or anyplace on the planet for that matter. We've found very little life in these alien star-systems, and it's varied from primitive to ancient. Perhaps this society became old and died before any of us were bom." The three Earthmen stood at the base of the spaceship, their spacesuit headpieces thrown back so they could breathe in the cool thin air. They stood there peering into the deathly stillness. "I hope there are people living here' Parker said. "It's been more than a month now -- " "Well," Hinckley said, "let's find out." He waved them forward. They were fifty feet from the house when a woman appeared in the doorway with a silver vase. She was dressed in a grey flowing robe that covered her from neck to ankles. "A young woman," Hinckley breathed, staring. "A woman just like any on Earth!" His voice was loud in the silence, but the woman took no notice. She with sand. The two men with Hinckley shifted anxiously, settling the sand beneath their boots. Behind them the great spaceship pointed its nose at the sky. Parker was staring intently at the girl. "I'm going to like this place," he said slowly. They walked forward, crunching sand. But the girl took no notice of their approach. She was kneeling beside the house, scooping tiny handfuls of sand into the silver vase. When they were within five feet of her, Hinckley cleared his throat. She did not look up. He coughed. "Maybe she's deaf," Parker suggested vaguely. His eyes wandered appraisingly over her youthful body; he licked dry lips. Hinckley moved forward and stood before the girl. Her small white hands dug into the sand, scooping around his boots as though not aware of them. "And blind, too?" Compton wanted to know. "And without the sense of touch?" There was a strange quality to his voice, as though some primitive part of his unconsciousness was telling him to run. Hinckley bent to tap the girl lightly upon the shoulder. "Pardon me. Miss. We're visitors from Earth," he told her. But she paid no attention to the sound of his voice, and he stepped back, puzzled. "Now what?" Compton wanted to know. He looked around him nervously, at the house, the speckled sand, the rocket squatting behind them. "I hope all the natives aren't like this." "I do," Parker said, licking his lips thoughtfully and keeping his gaze on the girl. "I'd just as soon have them all like this. It might be interesting." Compton flushed. "What I meant -- " "He knows what you meant," Hinckley said harshly. "And there won't be any of that going on here. You caused enough trouble on the other planets, and it's not going to happen again, not while I'm in charge of this expedition. We didn't come all the way out here just so you could satisfy your romantic inclinations." "And how about my off hours, Captain " Parker said, emphasizing the word as though it were obscene ; "then may I fraternize?" "You have no off hours," Hinckley said sternly. "Here comes another one," Compton warned in a whisper. A man, dressed in robes similar to the woman's, came from the door of the house and walked into the yard. After helping the woman to rise, he picked up the vase, and the two of them went back inside the house. He hadn't even looked at the Earthmen. After awhile, Parker said, "Do you suppose they're both mirages?" "Maybe that's it," Compton said. "Maybe it's all a mirage, the woman, the vase, the man, the house, maybe even the planet itself." His voice had risen in his excitement. "Take it easy," Hinckley advised. "Let's get back to the ship before the whole planet evaporates," Compton said. "Go back if you like," Hinckley said. "I'm going to investigate this. How about you, Parker?" "Okay with me. Always wanted to see what makes a mirage tick." He glanced contemptuously at Compton. "Okay," Compton said, gripping his rifle, "we'll all make fools of ourselves." "C'mon, then." Hinckley led the way into the house, hesitating only briefly at the doorway. Inside, a blue light flickered as the man bent over a flaming trough and poured sand into it from the silver vase. The flames a sweet fragrance. The man emptied the vase, rose and took it to one corner of the room. He sat down on the couch by the woman. He did not look at the Earthlings. "He doesn't see us either," Compton said hoarsely. He cried, "Hey, you! You! Listen! We're Earthmen. Visitors from space." His voice was explosive in the silence. The man didn't look up. The Earthmen became aware of music seeping from the walls, music strange and hauntingly beautiful, played on incredible invisible instruments. "I don't like this," Compton said. "I don't like it at all. Why are they ignoring us? Why?" "Maybe they can't help it," Hinckley suggested. "Perhaps they actually can't see us or hear us. It's fantastic, but it's possible." "I wonder," Parker mused. And before anyone could stop him, he struck the man across the face with a doubled fist. "Parker!" Hinckley cried. "You fool!" "That's a matter of opinion," Parker said steadily, rubbing his knuckles. "I found out what I wanted to." The man had fallen beneath the blow, but recovered seconds later. There was a large red welt on his forehead, but neither he nor the woman took any notice of it. "It's incredible," Compton said. "Evidently we can affect them physically, even if not mentally," Hinckley said. "You do something like that again, Parker, and I'll shoot you. I've got the authority to do it, you know, and sometimes the urge." "I know," Parker said, "but you haven't got the guts. Besides, I'll behave myself." He looked intently at the young woman. "I just wanted to make certain they're real, that's all." "Let's get out of here," Compton suggested. "There must be some way we can get a message through to these people. Perhaps someone in the village -- " Hinckley nodded and motioned them from the house. Compton went eagerly, but Parker lingered. The air outside seemed cooler now, and its freshness seemed strange after the pleasant fragrance inside the house. "Go back to the ship," Hinckley told Parker. "Compton and I'll go into the village." "I like it right here," Parker said. "We might need someone at the ship," Hinckley said. "That's an order." His hand caressed his rifle, as though daring Parker to refuse. Parker grinned contemptuously. "Anything you say, Captain . If you need any help, just yell." He turned away and walked toward the rocket. "Someday I'm going to kill him," Hinckley promised. He turned to Compton. "G'mon, let's see what the village looks like." the first hut, multiplied. Some of the huts seemed to have specialized purposes as stores or warehouses, but otherwise it was the same. People sat in the houses, listening to music or watching moving pictures swarm over their hut walls. Some occasionally ventured into the street. All of them ignored the Earthmen. "I don't know what to make of it," Hinckley said finally. "We can touch them and hear them; they appear normal in all respects, but they seem to be operating on a different level of existence." "I don't pretend to understand it," Compton said, "but I have a feeling I don't like, whenever I think about it. I'd rather meet bugeyed monsters than this." "I know what you mean," Hinckley said. "These people even though they're humanoid, are out of contact with reality -- at least with reality as we know it. It's like some kind of mass hypnosis, with everyone in a trance except us." "Think of how helpless these people would be," Compton said. "When we turn in our report, those who come out here with unhealthy designs won't have any opposition." "We have a prime example of that on board," Hinckley said disgustedly. "We'd better get back to the ship; I don't like to leave Parker alone; there's no telling what he'll do." When they got back Parker wasn't there. "I was afraid of this," Hirickley said between clenched teeth. "Maybe they've done something to him," Compton suggested nervously. "That's too much to hope for. Chances are, it's the other way around. If I know Parker, there's only one place he'll be. C'mon." Clutching his rifle, Hinckley ran from the rocket. Compton followed, a bit more cautiously. Hinckley reached the lone house and peered into the bluelit gloom. He entered, gun ready, Compton at his heels. "He's not here," Hinckley said, surprised. The man and the young woman sat on the couch and casually watched pictures move across the far wall. Hinckley, looking at the pictures, was not at all certain they weren't the reality and the natives of this place merely ghost images that might fade at any moment. On the wall an empire was being formed. Tall buildings were raised by machinery that was unfamiliar to the Earthmen. Aircraft flitted across the sky like strange black birds. The buildings towered, the flying machines dove, spitting needles that exploded into blossoms of fire, and the buildings toppled into dust. People ran, screaming soundless screams. Columns of smoke rose to replace the buildings. The scene shifted. Great weapons were assembled and heaped carelessly. To the heap were added the skycraft and other weapons of war. The pile exploded, and the people rejoiced, clasping hands, dancing. The walls darkened. Actual or symbolic? Hinckley wondered. "What does it mean?" Compton asked him. "I think," Hinckley said, "we've just been given a short history of their race. They built up a great society here, but a warring one. Finally, they outlawed all weapons in order to save themselves from total destruction. We could probably take a lesson from that." "They'll probably be worse off when the Earthmen come here," Compton said. "Even if they could see and hear us, they wouldn't have any weapons left to defend themselves. We could loot and rape and -- " "I think we'd better forget this planet exists," Hinckley said slowly. "If we don't report it, no one'll ever know. It's one planet in a million planets. If we say it's empty, they'll believe it and never bother to check." "But what about Parker?" "Yes," Hinckley said in a disturbed tone. "Parker. We've got to find him before he does anything he shouldn't. He must be in one of the huts. C'mon. You take one side of the village, I'll take the other. When we find him, we'll blast off." But they didn't find him. They searched through all the buildings, peered into all the faces. "I don't like it," Compton said when they met. "The people may be helpless, but that doesn't mean everything on the planet is. We've got to get out of here while we've got the chance." "Take it easy," Hinckley advised. "We can't leave without Parker. He's probably hiding someplace." "Hiding?" "Hoping we'll take off and leave him alone here. He'd be perfectly safe. He could take anything he wanted -- food, drink, anything -- and these people couldn't raise a finger to stop him; they wouldn't even know he was here, most likely. If I know Parker that's what he'd want. He wouldn't care about the people as long as he satisfied himself." "We'll never find him," Compton said. "There's a forest beyond the village. If he got into that, we could search for months and not find him." Hinckley shrugged. "We've got to try." Night came before they returned to the rocket. Hinckley shook his head in the gathering darkness. "He could be anyplace out there, damn him." "Let's get out of here," Compton suggested again. "Leave him here, if that's what he wants. Let him do what he wants here; what difference does it make if the natives don't know what's happening?" Hinckley's look was cold. "We'll wait until morning," he said. "If he isn't back by then, we'll leave." But the next morning, the rays of the alien sun found the white squatting houses silent; Parker had not returned. Hinckley turned on the outer loudspeaker. "Parker," he said. The words crashed across the still village. "Parker, this is Hinckley. We're blasting off in five minutes. If you're not aboard, we're leaving without you." After a few minutes, Compton said, "He's not coming. He's probably dead, and so will we be if we wait long enough." "More likely, he's ignoring us," Hinckley said, consulting his watch. "He's got two minutes more." Two minutes later, Compton said, "Time's up." Hinckley nodded. He switched on the rocket motors. Deep within the spaceship a turbine growled; the growl rose to a whine. "I still don't like to leave him there. Even though they don't know what's happening to them, I feel sorry for those people out there." He switched on the loudspeaker again. "Parker," he said over it. "Last chance. We're blasting off." "He's not coming," Compton said shrilly, "he's not coming." Hinckley touched a button. Flaming rockets drove their fire in to the ground. The great spaceship shuddered, rose on a column of flame. "At last," Compton sighed. "At last." "We'll have to come back, though," Hinckley said. "I knew we'd have to turn in a report, and now I know we'll have to come back here to find Parker, to jail him as a deserter, and perhaps worse. I hate to think of what'll happen to those people down there when the Earthmen come." They looked into a viewscreen. Below them, the planet dwindled and became nothing. Parker watched the spaceship rise into the sky and disappear. He chuckled contentedly. He had won the game of hide-and-seek, and the planet was his prize. Earthmen always took what they could from newly discovered planets, only this time he would have first choice well ahead of any others. It would be months before an Earth ship would arrive. But he could last that long easily. Longer if necessary. During that time he could make up some story to account for his absence. They'd have to prove him a liar, and that would be difficult. Any story he made up would certainly be no less fantastic than this planet certainly was. Meanwhile, there were things to do. He took off his cumbersome spacesuit and left it in a clearing in the forest; he wouldn't need that for awhile, and it would only hamper him. He was in no mood to be delayed. There were a great many things to do, but first there was one special thing to do. There was a girl, he remembered, a young woman in a small hut at the other end of the village. He licked his lips in anticipation. There was a man with her, but there was nothing he could do -- nothing at all. Parker laughed loudly into the silence and trotted down the street. When he reached the I other end of the village, he walked eagerly into the house. The girl sat on the couch. The man stood nearby. The walls were unmoving and the blue fire cast a cold light about the room. The Earthman sat down beside the girl, and his hands reached out, unhesitating. But suddenly the man said something in an alien tongue, a sound that was like a whiplash, angry and bitter. Parker felt his throat tighten. "What?" he said. "What?" He looked up into eyes alive with hate. No, that was impossible. It was only imagination. Only imagination, yet for a moment -- he laughed guiltily -- he'd thought the man was looking directly at him. Furiously, angry at himself, Parker forced the thought from his mind. He reached once more for the girl, but she shrank from his touch and leaped up. The Earthman followed her movement with startled, puzzled eyes, and then his bewilderment changed to a fear that held him with cold fingers. The man had taken a long silver knife from beneath his robe, and he held it in his hands so that its blade reflected the cold blue fire. His face was a mask, not pleasant to see. And he was looking at the Earthman, seeing him, watching him, hating him. A sudden flash of understanding came. These people had known all the time. They stayed indoors in dim light to enhance the illusion and watch with greater secrecy, so that the movement of eyes would not betray them -- and they had waited. For what? Parker leaped up with a hoarse cry and ran, not waiting to find out. He was in the doorway when the silver knife caught him and slid easily between his ribs and released the breath of life that lay hidden there. Before he struck the ground, he was a shell, with neither fear nor desire to trouble him. For a long moment afterward, the man stood over the still body, looking down at it with a mixture of hate and disgust. The girl joined him. He looked at her and then at the sky. "We must learn to make weapons again," he told her. "These creatures will be back, unsuspecting, thinking us helpless. Next time, we must be ready!" Without ceremony, they buried the Earthman's body and then met others of their kind coming into the village streets. There was work to do.    Playing "Napoleon" can get to be a habit. especially when a man is devoted to pure science . Which was Dr. Whitemarsh's devotion -- until Dr. Sally Chester came along! The Laboratorians tube," said Rocco as he expertly twirled the erlenmeyer flask and watched the color shoot past the methyl orange end-point. Whitemarsh was annoyed and said so. "That's the sixth straight you've missed, and the acid comes out of the burette, not the tube; and you don't call the graduations c.c., you call them "Yeah? Well, here we call it a tube!" "And why don't you go down to the end-point drop by drop?" "Because the book don't say so! That's why! You technos make me sick. Here we do all the blasted work, and you try to tell us how to do what we've been doing for ten years!" Rocco was beginning to work himself into one of his famous rages. His bull neck was beginning to redden; his eyes started to flash. His entire squat body started to quiver. Whitemarsh wasn't impressed. Over at the atomic plant, Phobus's Quercus Mountain, he had bossed a pretty quarrelsome crew of isotope wranglers. He had never dodged a fight in his life. But this was in a chemical laboratory and it surprised him to hear the aslllustrated by Ed Emsh sistants talk back. The only assistants he had ever known were clear-eyed youths taking a year away from their studies to recoup their tuition money and who tried to copy everything the chemists did. But Whitemarsh was new to the Interspatial Research Center on the Moon, and he still could not figure why the assistants acted as they did. So he waited. Rocco banged the flask down on the stone bench, glared at Whitemarsh for an instant, and then rushed out of the Laboratory, muttering a few obscenities. "Queer place this," mused and finishing the titration himself. "Here the helpers tell the chemists what to do and get mad if we ask them what they're doing." He started to look over Rocco's notes and ruefully decided all the work would have to be done over again. He was interrupted when a girl opened the door. In the week had been introduced to so many scientists that he had forgotten most of the names, but he remembered all the girls. His former Atomic Plant at Quercus Mountain had had all too few for him not to appreciate them now. Miss Sally Chester was a statuesque chemist with long blonde hair and a luscious figure which she hid under a white lab robe. He managed to stammer some sort of greeting. "Why Dr. Whitemarsh!" She seemed somewhat puzzled. "You're not actually working with your hands?" "I sure am, unless we're both space struck. Why not?" "Well, I suppose it's all right other places, here we let the Laboratorians do all the manual work. It's sort of their privilege." "Yes, but their technique's lousy. I sat here this afternon and watched that blow-hard Rocco muff six straight end-points in a row and when I asked him how come, he blew his top!" She laughed at that. She sat down on the lab desk and said, "You're absolutely right. Antonio Rocco's color blind and always misses his Methyl Orange endpoints. And he's been doing them for ten years. But it hurts his feelings to be criticized, you should have been more diplomatic. He's probably gone to complain to his boss!" "His boss? Aren't we his bosses? On this sheet he's listed as my assistant." "Actually yes. But traditionally the shop foreman is the leader of the Laboratorians. He certifies them to see that they know their work, signs their time cards and tells them when to take time off. Of course we outline the work they do, check their results and write reports from their data. Normally we come into the lab as little as possible." "But Sally, how the hell do we know that their results are right? This mixed-up outfit is in the hands of a bunch of left-handed prfma donnas who don't know Beilstein from Budweiser!" She smiled again (and he thought of the ads for Stargleam toothpaste). "Let's go over to the Scientists' Snack Bar and get a cup of coffee, and I'll tell you a little about the history of this laboratory." So he let her lead him out of the individual laboratory into the pastel blue corridor where they followed the spiral runways to the glass enclosed Snack Bar. Here they sat on pale leather chairs and looked out over the expanse of the Central Laboratory. From where he sat, he could see a square mile of magnificent equipment: Serpentine condensers, enormous distillation columns, molecular stills, ultra-centrifuges, electron microscopes, all were spread out before him. Surrounding the central laboratory were the innumerable railings of the corridors leading to the individual offices. Upstairs and downstairs strolled scientists and Laboratorians respectively, all obviously contented. He turned to face Miss Chester who was lolling in the chair beside him. She had poured him a cup of coffee, given him a plate of rolls and was ready to talk. She reminded him that in # it was found necessary to build research laboratories on the Moon to avoid the guided meteorites which the Aliens had been hurling toward the Earth. Since there had also been a shortage of trained scientists, it was necessary to train apprentices to operate the complicated laboratory equipment... to perform the operations without bothering themselves with the theory. The Laboratorians were needed and they did a good job running specification tests on all the equipment necessary for the interplanetary war. After the war, the Interspatial Corporation had made it the Central Research Laboratory, since this had been the largest aggregation of instruments ever gathered together, and in the ten intervening years, the numbers of college-trained scientists had increased almost ten-fold. As long as the Laboratorians confined their work to the equipment they were familiar with, they were unbeatable. To guide them they had the Book, as the Technical Manual of the Interspatial Corporation was known, and the Laboratorians followed its procedures to the letter. "But they don't know why they're doing things," Whitemarsh interrupted. "The manual's been in need of revision for the last five years, and research workers don't use the same tests all the time!" "Well that's right," admitted Sally without disagreement. "I usually have my particular laboratory instructions mimeotyped and bound in a little book. I've also got the instructions so fixed that if they do things wrong, I can catch them. And I've learned not to modify my instructions orally. That only confuses the men and results in chaos. With a little planning, you can get good work done, and if you don't mind humoring their whims a little, there's no reason why you can't get along with them." Whitemarsh wasn't so sure. He had no objections to jollying his subordinates, but he did draw the line at sloppy lab technique. He escorted Miss Chester to her own office, thanked her for the briefing, and then started to worry on his own. He took the speed elevator up to Dr. Sheridan's office. The Laboratory director was sympathetic. He looked at the broad-shouldered young giant, Dr. Whitemarsh, and reflected that this man was rated the most promising scientist the Interspatial Corporation ever had. "You're damn right, Whitemarsh," he told the younger man, pushing him into a chair and offering him a cigarette. "I've been here three years and spent the first two fighting the system. Maybe the trouble goes back to our Board of Directors. They're all so proud of this shining Research Station on the Moon, that they hate to admit that anything's wrong. They've got the Laboratorians responsible to the Lunar Mines Service -- and there it stands. "So the only thing we can do is wait. Lo Presti the Master Mechanic is up for retirement next year and there's going to be a big organizational shake-up. Hold tight. After that we may have a free hand." So Whitemarsh thanked him and bided his time. He released Rocco back to some other scientist and did his own laboratory work, even though the Laboratorian Council made a written protest. He also spent many hours in the excellent laboratory library, reading all the reports coming out of the Lunar Laboratory over the past ten years. His discoveries amazed him. Theoretically the Lunar Lab had one of the best collections of scientific minds in the Solar System. Every Earth university was represented on its staff. New techniques and products had poured out of the Laboratory during the ten years of its existence, yet every one of these had been based on doubtful data. Certain things worried him. First, notes were kept in a very cavalier manner even by the most experienced scientists. Secondly, the younger chemists and physicists never had been exposed to any practical laboratory work after their student days, and consequently had no means of judging the technique of their assistants. Finally, the Laboratorians were apparently proud of their ignorance, displayed a contempt for "paper fix their results if they thought they could get away with it... He did not let his social development slide either. Lunarport was far more advanced culturally than the crude settlement on Phobus. Here Dr. Whitemarsh was able to have a luxurious apartment in the New Dome sector, could hear lectures and concerts, and could even indulge in winter sports such as skiing in the lava around the craters (protected of course by a heated suit and an oxygen mask.) He found Miss Chester a satisfactory companion for such endeavors, even though she spoke little of her private life or how she had avoided marriage in her twenty-five years. But he played a waiting game with her as well as with the lab job. He admitted to himself that a research chemist's life at Lunar Lab was a pleasant one, particularly if one didn't care how accurate one's results were. Unfortunately, the same quirk which had driven him into science also made him suspicious of all easy methods. He had never recovered from the shock of discovering that just because a reaction worked in a book, it did not necessarily have to do so in a laboratory. tion came within five rather than six months. There was some grumbling among the older scientists, but there was not much they could do about it. Kercheval, who had twelve years' service on the Moon, did not have his Ph.D and did not care particularly for executive work. Neither did Sturtevant with a doctorate and ten years service. But others objected; even Miss Chester, long one of Whitemarsh's defenders, felt that the older men deserved at least the chance of refusal. (It never occurred to Whitemarsh that she might have had some ambitions of her own.) He called the group leaders together for a conference the day after his appointment. He was now ensconced behind Sheridan's desk and was not yet accustomed to having a secretary. The leaders came in grim and resentful. He wasted no words. "I'm going to reorganize the setup to get the Laboratorians under us, whether they like it or not. This sloppy technical data and unsubstantiated findings is not my idea of a good lab -- nor yours, I'm sure. It's up to you to show it during the next year. Meanwhile you've all been pushed up fifty dollars a month in salary. So long!" His next step was to call on Lo Presti. The Master Mechanic's Office was outside the Lab Dome near the Shaft of Lunar Mine No. #. The old man had been in the preliminary Selenium exploration party and never could forget the old days when he drove the men and robots to find the metal that paid for the cost of the Expedition. The President of the Home Office, Dr. Barker, had never forgotten either, and Lo Presti was always taken care of. The # Laboratorians probably caused him more headaches than the five thousand miners ever had, since a delegation visited him every day or so now that Dr. Whitemarsh was rumored in. But the Lo Presti knew that times change too, and realized that the brawling space adventurer did not fit into a sleek world of test tubes and retorts. Ninety-five years old and arrogant as ever, he sat in his office and greeted Dr. Whitemarsh with a bonecrushing handshake. He offered a cigar and Whitemarsh thanked him, lighting a pipe instead. "I hear from the boys you've been cracking down on them," he stated. "No more than you would if you'd been there yourself. What would you do if a driller split a core?" "Why I'd give the careless sap a clout that would wake him up. But the Laboratorians aren't drillers!" "That's right, but that's the way some of them are muffing their work." Lo Presti eyed him appraisingly. "Aren't you the same Whitemarsh who capped the crater on Phobus last year?" "I sure am. And your Laboratorians are a bevy of Nice Nellies compared to that mutinous bunch of space rats I had with me." "Well, maybe you're the man for the job at that. The guys don't put out anymore. Used to be I knew all the gang. I'd look around and see when they were goofing off. Now they're all such experts, I can't tell if they're loafing or just thinking." They both laughed at that. Whitemarsh thought it would be a good time to say: "I don't want to do anything to your boys for a while until I get my own gang straightened out!" "Don't kid me, Doc," responded Lo Presti, "you know when I retire you're going to move in and crack down. Well I'm with you!" So they parted friends. Whitemarsh went back to his office in a happy mood. True, Miss Chester had been avoiding him lately and he had to drink coffee by himself but he now had and the foremen on his side and the front office. Now was the chance to reform the laboratory. His first bombshell was the requirement that all the junior chemists should take a qualifying examination. That really caused trouble in paradise. Apparently, all of the younger set had thrown away their books on graduation and remembered only their own specialties. Whitemarsh, from being a pleasant companion at the Snack Bar who discussed skiing and spaceball, had now become an ogre of the first water. The senior chemists chuckled, since they were exempt, and the Laboratorians guffawed aloud to see their harriers in turn harried. In any event there was frenzied activity in the month before the examination and the library staff did yeoman duty. And, no one had threatened to quit. At least almost no one. Whitemarsh was musingly staring out of his office's Plastoid window at the green eye of Earth when he heard a commotion outside in the anteroom. He looked out to see Sally Chester, and he sensed that their relationship was less than idyllic. "Let me see that egotistical ass, Whitemarsh," she shouted at his secretary who cowered in silk clad finery as the white-coated Valkyrie charged by. "Be calm," he advised her, placing himself strategically behind his desk. "Calm," she screamed, "how can I be calm when an officious busybody starts getting drunk with power and acting like a Twentieth Century dictator? After all I've done for this stinking Lunar Lab, how come that I have to take an exam in freshman chemistry?" "I thought you were exempt," began the chastened director. "Sorry, your honor! Your order says five years at Lunarport. I've only been around this sweat shop for four years and six months. What are you going to do if I fail? Throw me out and I'm moving over to Campo Sano with every one of our trade secrets!" "I'll get you exempted," he offered. "What, and have the other chemists cry favoritism? Not on your life, yelled. "And stop grinning at me like a Cheshire Cat!" He did not answer. He was content only to admire her in her rage. Her usually mild face was flushed through the tan and her graceful hands were tightly clenched into fists that pounded on his desk. "Answer me, you moron!" she shouted. Then she started to cry. Within one minute the seething Amazon had changed into a defenseless white-coated girl cowering in the visitor's chair, weeping bitterly. Whitemarsh approached and held her hand. "Listen, Sally," he told her, "the only reason I was going to let you out of the test was because you know more chemistry than any of the scientists here. But go ahead and take the test; you'll get the highest grade!" She brightened, "You think so?" "Know it," he affirmed gallantly, "now, how about going to the Space Opera at the Symphorium tomorrow? Kluchesky is singing in Pomme de Terre " She stiffened slightly and stood up. "Listen, Mr. Frank Whitemarsh! Privately you're not a bad guy. You even had potentialities. But you're a hell of a failure as a boss and the less I see of you, the happier I'll be. Good-bye!" And she was gone. Whitemarsh resumed his contemplation of the Earth with less interest. tion might have been foretold. The intelligent and professionally alert junior chemists retained enough fundamentals to do well. The majority failed the questions on laboratory technique. Consequently Whitemarsh enlisted the aid of the older men to conduct a series of refresher lectures to bring up to date the scientific knowledge of those who failed. The Laboratorians were delighted with the spectacle presented by these lectures, and loved going home at night while erstwhile bosses sat listening to Dr. Sturtevant discuss "The Theory of Washing Precipitates", or to hear Dr. Whitemarsh talk on "Balancing the Redox equation." The Laboratorian's happiness lasted until one day in October. That was the day that Lo Presti retired. The old man was given a small space ship by the Corporation and a space-time chronometer by the Laboratorians. Then he sorrowfully said farewell. The next day the Laboratorians were absorbed into Research. Somebody had to plan for janitor service, figure where to place time cards, design new proficiency ratings and decide on such complex matters as where the Laboratorians were to hang their coats. All these services had been provided for by the miner's shop organization. Whitemarsh stayed late at night for a week arranging the new payroll plan and raising the salaries somewhat. All this was handled, if not without incidents, at least without violence. Even the janitors and secretaries were now part of a team. All but Miss Chester. She had stopped speaking to Whitemarsh in the halls and had been seen in the company of a younger (and Whitemarsh felt) better looking physicist. Then Whitemarsh dropped his second bombshell. The junior chemists were ordered to rate the Laboratorians for proficiency ! Fresh from six months' study under such taskmasters as Whitemarsh and Kercheval, the chastened scientists were now able to interpret the antics of their tormentors of yesterday. An old tradition had fallen and the howls extended back to the Front Office on Earth. For a change, Miss Chester did not object. She was evidently past all comment. She merely wrote out a list of the faults and virtues of all her assistants, rated them all Excellent and went back to her research. But Rocco was tried and found incapable of running titrations. Harry Crowe was found to be weighing incorrectly, Zachary had been fixing his calculations for the last ten years and even faithful Bruno had been found to be adding # to all of his Iodine numbers in order to pass the specs easier. It suddenly occurred to every one that all the laboratory's reports were based on incorrect data. All work stopped for a week until the scientists found what their assistants had been trying to do all along. And the results were a bit terrifying. When Kercheval found that an incorrectly calibrated reflectometer had negated five years of his pet project, he tore up his notebooks, flung them on the floor and stalked into Whitemarsh's office. "Frank, I'm taking my back vacations and going to Venus to forget it all for about six months. And mind you, when I get back I don't want to see my present assistants. I'm going to start from scratch." He left, banging the door. Next was Sturtevant. "Frank, we've got to get Interstellar Review to hold my last paper. I want to recheck the melting points of some of those diazo compounds." Then came the young physicist, Dr. Slezak, who was rumored to be Miss Chester's present skiing companion. "Dr. Whitemarsh," he stammered, "I'm not sure about the data on my last report." "Didn't you take it all yourself?" "Yes, but I used some of Kercheval's data for my fundamental calculations and, if that's wrong, all my conclusions may not be valid." "Stop worrying," Whitemarsh told him. "When Kercheval recalculates his values, you can revise your own report. As long as your own work is right, you have nothing to worry about." The young man left, nervously wringing his hands. Whitemarsh couldn't see what Sally saw in him. He figured she ought to be along by now. She was. "I told you so," Sally said theatrically. "You've got the whole lab mistrusting each other. All the chemists are quarreling like mad and the Laboratorians all look like whipped dogs. You've pulled the chair right out from under everything and you sit here gloating." "Relax, Sally," he told her. "They're just growing pains. Take it easy and ride out the storm... Now, how about tearing over to Lunar # to see the crucial Spaceball series between the Space Rangers and the Callisto Satellites?" She looked horrified. "I'm afraid you don't take hints very well. I'm not interested in going anywhere with you. Actually, I'm going with Jack Slezak to see 'Nova of the Leprous Soul', and I might suggest a fit subject." She flounced out again and Whitemarsh felt lost. He tried to cheer himself with a book on Hyper Plutonium Elements. The transition took longer than Whitemarsh had bargained for. After the Laboratorians were reeducated, and a tiresome process it was, chemists went over the notebooks to look for inaccuracies, doubtful data was examined, all microfilms had to be edited and corrected; and they found that most of the chemicals developed at the laboratory in the past decade had been founded on doubtful data. But since all of them had passed the Development Group, Whitemarsh didn't think it was wise to try to recall them. But new products scheduled for release were re-examined and retested after the fundamental work on them was checked. Finally the problems were unscrambled and the laboratory began to run smoothly again. The research projects were reestablished and the work started out anew. Frayed tempers were soothed and the scientists finally got around to trusting each others' results again. The Laboratorians were now carefully but tactfully watched by the junior chemists who, in turn, were spending more time in the laboratories and less in their offices. When the new, sound results started grinding forth, Whitemarsh permitted himself a sigh of relief. Lunar Lab had lost its individuality, he admitted, even though the easy-going camaraderie he had noticed when he first came was also gone. The results of Lunar Research Lab of Interspatial were now as reliable as those of the Campo Sano and Roque laboratories back on Earth. But it had been a hard fight. None of the chemists ever stopped around his office any more for small talk about sports and politics. His secretary brought him coffee in his sanctum sanctorum and he did not find himself wandering around the laboratory as he had formerly done. When he did, there was usually a restrained silence and a suspicious neatness. Miss Chester was apparently irrevocably lost and there were rumors of an engagement Though he had won the day, he had lost something too. The Lab was now able to turn out results, but Frank Whitemarsh had paid a personal price for it's new efficiency. over as Research Director, Sheridan, now a Vice President, brought him some news. "Get ready to pack, Frank," he told the younger man as they sat and smoked in the director's office watching the clouds moving over the Earth. "The Front Office like what I did?" asked Whitemarsh puffing on his pipe. "Well." There was a slight pause. "All the scientists on the board are behind you to a man. But the business men, the advertising boys and accountants, well... you know how they are." "What's eating them?" "The lab didn't release any new products this past year. Development and even Advertising are pretty much slowed down." "That's right. We've got some good products about ready, but we're making a final check before release. Don't you think we sent out a lot of junk before?" "We sure did, even in my time though I tried to stop it. But the development boys want something, anything." "Well?" asked Whitemarsh. "So they'd probably rather run the risk of getting something bad than nothing at all." "They won't!" "That's right, they never will again. Now, I know that the products you have ready are going to be good and I'm not worried about them. All we have to do is keep the business geniuses out of our hair for another six months." "And?" "So we're kicking you upstairs. It's a good job, don't worry about that, at three times your director's salary." "What if I quit?" "Don't be that silly." "What's the other job?" "Works Manager at Quercus Mountain on Phobus. Sole boss of the biggest Isotope Works in the Solar System. You'll have # men under you and have a free hand at starting any kind of laboratory you want." "No Laboratorians?" "Right. You can start out from scratch and make the kind of lab you've always dreamed of. Here we're thinking of pushing up Kercheval if it's all right with you, you always rated him highly. It's just like changing Spaceball managers. We all know the Space Sox won the pennant last year on the team developed by Kanter even though Balhiser was manager. These wolves will keep off our tail until the new products start coming through and then we'll say we knew it all along." "You've got me half convinced not to quit," said Whitemarsh quietly. "Now listen Frank," came back Sheridan just as seriously, "you're too good a man to waste. Now take your promotion like a nice boy and keep in line." "I still think I did a good job here." "So do I, but the Board of Directors can't forgive those retractions, even though you and I know they're necessary. They don't know what scientific truth and pride are. Within ten years, on the foundations you laid, we'll have the best research record in the country..." After Sheridan had left, Whitemarsh cast a last look at his former domain. He called Kercheval in to give him the news and then tell him to keep quiet until verified. Then he decided to take a last tour around the laboratories. He finally found himself up at the Snack Bar and his eyes were taking the same look over the Laboratory that they had done two years before. The view looked about the same. He had supervised the installation of a new Matter Probe over in the front center and he was responsible for the Atom Analyzer, but these were only minor changes. The major change, he thought bitterly, is that no one speaks to me unless spoken to -- I've become a pariah. Never tamper with the status quo, it disturbs too many people. It's a very lonely job. There was no one else in the Snack Bar. At least, almost no one else. He heard a discreet cough behind him. He turned and found Miss Chester seated behind him. She had her legs crossed, a cup of coffee in one hand and the Space News Want-Ads in the other. "Hello, Napoleon," she greeted him. "Have you just been surveying your empire? Did you see the stem men of science jumping through the hoops out there? Can you remember the happy place this was a year ago when you came? Then the Laboratorians took pride in their work; now they're flunkies for the green kids fresh from Alma Mater!" "Stop it, Sally," he told her. "You're not too far wrong on that Napoleon business. I'm taking off for my new St. Helena, Quercus Mountain on Phobus." "Quercus Mountain? That's a big place. Lab Director?" "No. Works Manager." "Heaven help the poor Atomic workers!" "Don't be that harsh. Dammit! Sally, maybe I am a Napoleon, but scientific accuracy is too important to play fast and loose with, the way they were around here. You know it. You're the only one who didn't relax that vigilance -- who saw to it that everything you turned out was without error. I know now that I forgot the human equation -- that I was so eager for errorless research that I trod pretty roughshod over a lot of people. But you're guilty too, you know, you had the secret -- you managed to balance the equation when everyone else here didn't. Why didn't you help me? Sure, you came in and ranted and raved at me -- called me all sorts of names, but you didn't help me, you didn't try to show me the way." tcj  "Let me finish," he interrupted her. "I love you, you know -- have for a long, long, time. I still need help, Sally. I don't want to keep playing Napoleon and going into exile over and over again. A bigger job with more men under me isn't the answer. When a man is lonely it makes him hard and cruel in circumstances like that. I made all of you here relearn scientific facts, I need to relearn the humanities..." He paused for a moment. "Sally, will you teach me?" Her eyes were bright with unshed tears and a catch in her throat made the words husky and halfwhispered. "I wanted to help -- I love you too -- but I thought you were arrogant and didn't need me -- " She swallowed, controlling a sob. "I'll make it up to you, darling. You won't be alone again -- on Phobus or anywhere else in the galaxy."    All that is human must retrograde if it does not advance . -- Gibbon Fear is often Man's greatest enemy. But when there is nothing left to lose , there is everything to gain... And with everything to gain f where is the enemy? the breathing of the six men who shared apartment #-B with him, and the panic fluttered deep in his stomach, threatening to break upward and out in a wild scream. He fought it by telling himself it was foolish for a man who had lived through the destruction of New York and eight months imprisonment to feel this way. He peered toward the window and tried to see the morning sun; not as a pale, shimmery fog but as the bright Spring yellow he knew it was. But the fog remained, no matter how many times he rubbed his eyes with saliva-wet fingers. It was as if he were seeing everything under water -- a world of shimmery, hazy objects. The panic rose again. The Conquerors' beam had done its work well, and his chances of finding Adele before death found him, were now terribly small. The first punishment had brought only a slight blur, this one had almost blinded him, and it was only a matter of time before he committed the third offense. It made no difference that Conqueror Punitive assured all trainees that the degree of blindness decreased as the years went by. He knew that his third offense would come sooner than any improvement in his ability to see. And the third offense was punishable by death. Before another rush of fear could churn his brain, the morning whistle sounded. Shrill, commanding, it began each day of aimless wandering -- the silent stroll over pavement connecting the five buildings of what had once been Brooklyn's prize housing development; a constant walk which destroyed those Americans unable to show complete obedience and turned the others into slaves. Again the whistle shrieked, and the room filled with coughs, groans and sighs, for it was forbidden to talk. Only when one of the many rules had been broken and a card Illustrated by Ed Emsh bearing the trainee's number was found in the box outside the door did some American get a chance to speak. He would rush instantly to the small administration building near the wall's only exit and report to the squat, gray-uniformed Conqueror known as Punitive -- the only Conqueror the trainees had ever seen. After an explanation of the offense in too-precise English, the trainee was told to sit on the stool facing the light tube. "I obey," he would croak. In silence broken only by the hum of electric generators in the basement, the beam of piercing white light would sear his eyes. Afterwards, the assurance about the disappearing effects of the beam; then back to the streets. With only Punitive representing them, the Conquerors weeded out Americans who would not or could not obey. The vaguest suggestion of communication between trainees was picked up by the detector bulbs -- the see-and-hear-all devices which hung much as oversized light bulbs from the ceiling of every room, and stood like dead street lamps every fifty feet or so along the pavements. George lay a second longer, then twisted his tall, slim body erect and sprang to his feet. As he slipped into the thick stockings, hightopped shoes, and one-piece coveralls with serial number stitched in large red numerals across chest and back, he began sounding deep in his throat. This was so slight a touch of the vocal cords that no detector bulb or other trainee could hear it. But it was something more than thinking; it was listening to a voice repeating all the things that had mattered before the Conquerors' surprise attack atomized New York City. It was his fight against non-entity. "George Lowery," he said, "thirty-two, top salesman at Brady's Men's Shop, resident of Babylon, Long Island, owner of # North Rector Drive, husband of Adele Lowery, and today you may see her." But the last phrase stuck in his throat and he had to repeat it several times. Even so, he couldn't convince himself that the most important part of his ritual was true -- that perhaps he would see his wife as she walked the streets. Two days ago he had turned the breakfast table to stone by asking his neighbor to pass the water. It was nothing more than a mistake -- a stupid thinking aloud. But yesterday the card had been in the door-box. He had visited apartment #-A in the Administration Building and, for the second time, the thin beam of light had seared his eyes. Now he was no longer sure he would be able to recognize his own wife. "George Lowery," he sounded, fighting off the panic. "George Lowery," and he turned and moved through the now-empty rooms. He was last in line outside the bathroom and waited dully for his turn. The men in front of him were nothing but tall, short or inbetween nondescripts. The old group, of which he was the last, had been different. They had looked at each other with meaning, with hope. After six months passed, and realization came that no opposition to the Conquerors was in sight, they went out in one mad day of talk. He had watched silently, refusing to respond to the suicidal good morning's, pardon me's, and salty discussions of Conqueror Punitive's parentage. Not that life in the project meant anything to him. It was just that he had to see Adele again -- to assure himself that she still remembered their life together. If her love had been stamped out, then the Conquerors were right in their menlive-by-bread-alone theory, and he was only one of a few remaining misfits -- a breed as expendable in the battle for survival as the great, pre-historic lizards had been. He hadn't been in the bathroom more than five minutes when the third whistle sounded. With his beard still wet he rushed out of the apartment, pausing only to check the empty door-box, then ran down two flights of stairs to the street. It was windy for a morning in June and his face felt cold where the damp hair covered it. The Conquerors allowed nothing that could be used as a weapon to fall into American hands, but even after eight months he was still not used to his light brown beard and long shaggy hair. Hurrying through the street, following the one-way arrows which kept the trainees moving in the same direction, around and around the project, he felt the panic well up again. He made a wide detour of the excavation area which lay in the center of a rough square formed by the four apartment houses and the Administration Building. This forbidden area had been the cause of his first visit to Conqueror Punitive. Some two months ago, right after the last shipment of fresh trainees arrived, he had seen a group of women obviously new to the project, rigid in their terror of this silent hell, walking right in the direction of the excavation. Without thinking, he had shouted a warning which stopped them from committing an offense. By the time he reached the basement of building two, he was gasping for breath. If the last whistle sounded before he was seated at one of the long wooden tables, it would mean the third offense. There wasn't any light-beam treatment for that one; only an electrode clamped to the head and the oblivion of thousands of volts of electricity. He went down the flight of steps into the basement which was dining room for all the male prisoners, and grasped a spoon, cup and plate from the tinware table just inside the door. The benches nearest the door were filled, but he didn't have time to go any further. Just as he plumped between two trainees, the whistle sounded. He sat still a moment catching his breath, feeling the thin bodies adjust themselves away from him. Scooping some cereal from one of the center pots, he began to eat. The first mouthful stuck in his throat and he hastily filled his cup. But when he had gulped down the sugared water, a wave of nausea made him gag. He sat gripping the edge of the table, his head spinning. And thoughts crept into his mind -- thoughts and questions he wanted to keep out. Why were the trainees being starved? If the Conquerors wanted to kill them, it would be simple enough to use the quicker and less expensive method of firing squads. The training area was proof that they wanted workers for their new world. And despite the hunger which made hollow-eyed skeletons of them all, the men and women walked straighter and with definite confidence. Their lips were sealed shut, their eyes flickered observantly, their heads were always rigidly forward. Except for a few lingering misfits like himself, the group conformed as well as humans ever could. Why then the delay in releasing them as had been promised? He screwed his eyes around and tried to see the other tables. Those even a short distance from the door were almost empty, and further into the hall they seemed deserted. He had no way of knowing the total number of men, but he was sure there weren't more than a hundred -- out of an original five hundred. If the same proportion held true for the women, there were less than two hundred Americans left in the project! He twisted his eyes to the person on his left. The face was that of a boy in his late teens -- the beard spotty and thin. The head barely moved as he chewed, he held himself rigid, his hand moved up to his mouth in a straight line and down the same way -- he ate like a machine. George swung his eyes to the right. Another young machine turned out by the Conquerors. But was it only to be starved to death that these men, most of them so young, had obeyed? It made no sense and this, more than the conformity to slavery, terrified him. But his terror lasted only a moment. What had he to do with whether they lived or died? He was finished; all that mattered was seeing Adele. He picked up his spoon and ate until the whistle shrieked its order for the walking to begin. Then he rose with utensils in hand and was carried to the door in the silent rush. As he dropped his tinware into the barrel of chlorinated water, he thought with bitter amusement that there was nothing for the Conquerors to do anymore -- hardly a full day's work for three or four men in operating the project now. the sun was warmer. It was a beautiful day; almost summer, he thought, and he breathed deeply. But the smell of fresh growth was not in the air -- only the dusty, burnt odor of the ruined city beyond the walls. The sun grew brighter by the minute and he found it increasingly more difficult to see. It was as if the rays shattered into blinding blobs as they struck his eyes. Somehow, he knew he was using his ears more than ever before. Poor compensation, he thought. There was nothing to hear -- no way of finding her by listening. And besides the absence of speech, there was the absence of any sound. He forced himself to place one leg after another, and all the horror in the world crept into his brain. He wanted to turn around and speak to those in back of him -- to stop the one-way tide of stroll and ask some questions. Just when had the last plane blurred by with jets roaring? And when had the Conquerors marched outside the wall, boots thudding, rifles clanking on canteen pack and buckle? When was the last atomic blast -- a distant rumble causing the ground to tremble beneath the pavement? Months; two or even three, it seemed to him. His long legs faltered and he almost stumbled. Then he remembered his one purpose, and pushed the thoughts from his mind. By alternately hurrying and slowing his steps, he was able to pull alongside some trainees and let others catch up with him. With sidelong glances he tried to find Adele. He had to see her -- to convince himself that she had not forgotten the happy years together. It had been between buildings three and four -- the women's living quarters -- that he had seen her that first and only time six months ago. He was walking quickly and pulled up beside her. One sidelong glance was exchanged and her face had filled with terror. Then she almost ran from him. He follQwed, but the weird chase ended after she actually turned to look back. Afraid she might commit further offenses in her efforts to avoid him, he had slowed his pace to a crawl and soon lost sight of her after turning a few comers. Now his time was running out and he had to see her. She should be wiser in the ways of the camp; they could exchange a glance and separate. But that glance would tell him whether or not she too had become a machine. If she's alive , a corner of his brain whispered. But he refused to think of her as being dead. The sun was getting hot and the faces he looked at were indistinguishable in their blurry outlines. Nausea and dizziness returned and he could no longer concentrate on his search. It's too late , he thought. The second treatment had finished his chances. He tried thinking of other things, to remember his feelings from the time of the blast to the day he had passed through the new brick wall into the project. But all he got was a blur of fear. Fear then, fear now, and fear until the day they would kill him. "Sick of fear!" a voice rusty from disuse rasped out. "Sick of the whole mess!" It was with a sense of complete surprise that he realized his mouth was open and it was his own voice shouting. "It's over," he rasped and turned around to face a startled, thinfaced woman whose blue eyes peered at him -- but not with terror. He looked at her, his mouth sagging open. "Over for both of us," she whispered, and moved toward him with arms outstretched and trembling. He tried to turn and run, to save her from further violations, but she grasped his hand. "George." And she was in his arms. "My third offense -- when I stopped walking. There's nothing to lose now." The shuffling of feet continued about them as they embraced, and she talked hurriedly as if afraid that the few hours before the evening meal would not be enough for all she had to say. "Tve walked behind you all these months. I was sure you would say something if you saw me and I didn't want you to be punished. Each morning I waited until the last moment before leaving the women's dining room -- until you came by looking for me. Then I'd walk behind you, sometimes within touching distance. Once I had to wait too long, and then I went to Punitive for the second time. But it was all for nothing. I hoped you would go free, but it was all for nothing." He kissed her then and she had to stop. When he took his lips from hers, they both turned to the nearest detector bulb. They were being watched, but what difference did a thousand violations make now? She was talking again, and actually smiling. "You look distinguished in a beard!" He laughed, and saw the nearby trainees pick up the forgotten sound. He took her lips back to his own and heard the shuffling feet slow down all around them. And the fear was gone. "Let's go to the excavation," he said. "We'll sit down at the bottom in privacy and talk and laugh. We're free, Adele, and the rest doesn't matter now." He put his arm around her waist and they strolled against the pattern, the rigid walkers parting before them. When they reached the at how easily it fell. Then he took her hand and moved down the steep, sandy slope. It wasn't until Adele moaned and closed her eyes tightly that he saw that the bottom of the pit was covered with stones -- and clean white bones. The blood pounded in his temples as he stared at the piled skeletons and chemical stained earth. And the few hours of peace was no longer enough. Adele helped him pick up stones, until his hands and her cradled arms could hold no more. Bulbs, at least, could be broken. Up they climbed, and when they reached the pavement there were many trainees shuffling slowly past the spot where the sign lay. He threw the first stone at a detector bulb while still some distance from it, and his ruined eyes failed him. But the next time he stood directly beneath it and the shattering of glass seemed as loud as the atomic blast had been. Down the street they went, smashing bulb after bulb, retrieving their missiles so as to have enough to last. And all the trainees moved slowly behind them, on up to the last bulb in front of the Administration Building. The new sound was a sharp crack, and someone screamed in a rusty voice. He turned to see one of the crowd twitching on the pavement, then followed the faces turned up to Conqueror Punitive's window. There was a shadow there -- a shadow with a rifle. "The last bulb," Adele said. "Smash it." He drew back his arm and the crack of rifle fire reached him a second after the hot streak creased his shoulder. But he wasn't hurt, and threw the stone. As the glass shattered there was an eruption of strange language from the building -- a terrified shouting. The trainees stopped walking, then broke into frenzied movement and hoarse shouts. They pushed George and Adele aside in pursuit of the gray-uniformed figure running toward the gate. The third shot was inside the building, and then the crowd picked up the fleeing Conqueror. His screams died quickly. Into the building the Americans poured -- shaggy skeletons shrieking hatred. By the time George and Adele followed, men and women stood silently in the rooms and halls. Punitive looked ridiculously small crouched in a corner, his head back, the rifle between his knees with the barrel in his shattered mouth. The total number of gray-uniformed bodies was six, all but Punitive killed by the Americans. But the trainees began to file from the building and run back toward their rooms, for the body in the large room filled with complex electrical equipment was lying in front of a high-powered sending set -- a radio whose tubes still glowed red. George looked at the radio, then at Adele. "They sent for help," he whispered. "Soon, every American here will be dead. And it's because of us." She didn't answer, and he expected no answer. The room grew dark as they stood looking at the humming set. Then he fumbled over the dials, switched the current off, and led her out into the street. There was no whistle for the evening meal. The streets were empty, and the silence hemmed them in like a solid wall. They walked toward the men's feeding hall. Passing through the hall, they entered the door leading to the kitchen. There were huge electric stoves and further on, wheat and sugar sacks piled ceiling high. In a large bin they found various canned goods -- the Conquerors' personal food supply. The stoves worked, and Adele found an opener and pots in the glare of the unshaded light bulbs. They ate quickly; soup, meat, several cans of condensed milk. Then they left the basement and walked into the balmy evening air. the Administration Building they loved each other desperately. Afterwards, they spoke of God, of what they believed would come after death, and were comforted. But they did not talk of what would happen to the others -- that was too painful for words. Before he fell asleep, with Adele breathing regularly beside him, he once again strained his ears to hear something -- anything -- from outside the wall. Except for the everpresent hum of the oil-fed electric generators in the Administration Building, there was nothing. Not the bark of a dog or the scream of a cat or the clash of inanimate objects. Even the wind was dead. But he was too exhausted for fear, and slipped quickly into sleep. Once during the night, he awoke and raised his head to listen. When he lay back, there was a thought in his mind both terrible and full of hope. Adele awakened him in the morning. From the sun he could tell that it was past the time for the first meal. They went to the feeding hall and ate ; then returned to the grassy spot. This time they found little to speak of and sat silently, watching the gate. They watched until the sun dipped low and shadows engulfed the silent buildings. Then they saw the first trainees slipping toward the feeding hall; the women moving toward the men's section in the need for comfort and protection. When George and Adele arrived in the kitchen, all the Americans were there. The women cooked the meal and whispered among themselves. The men sat talking, following the women with their eyes, trying to forget despair and certain death. They finished eating and sat quietly at the tables, husbands reunited with wives, boys and girls whispering to each other, all unGeorge spoke his thoughts. It was hard to speak aloud; he had kept his thoughts to himself for so very long, but he managed to speak quietly and calmly. He reminded them of the tactics the aliens had used to ensure obedience, how they had held out the promise of freedom as a reward for conformity. How, backed by the fear and terror they were able to inspire with their drastic punishments, they were able to enslave all the Americans and keep them toeing the mark. How they had probably felt secure enough in their conquest of the minds and bodies of their captives to leave the Earth in the hands of a few Punitives and a host of electronic gadgets. He told them, too, that the fact that no help had arrived despite the radio messages held the promise that the conquerors had no interest in Earth any longer; he assumed that they were busy elsewhere, or had merely conquered for the sheer joy of it, or that they lost interest... any reason would suffice. The important thing was that they they were free again. Free to live and laugh, to love and to hope... and to prepare a defense should the need arise. When he finished, even Adele looked at him with disbelief. But they all followed him to the Administration Building and one of the young men seated himself at overflowing into the hall, they waited. The youth knew his radios and manipulated the dials skillfully, but there was nothing except the crackle of static. With dread and hope mingled together, George listened to the empty airwaves -- to the messages sent out on the sending set, and again to the barren, static response. Then he turned to Adele and smiled weakly. "We've more than Noah had," he said, and held her trembling hand. It was not until two days passed and the fuel for the generators had been exhausted that the first search party ventured into the city. The report was one word ringing hob lowly in the feeding hall. "Nothing." Later expeditions utilized automobiles from the city's streets and traveled far out to other states. They returned with several haggard Americans and reports of some few surviving Conquerors. They also told of farms heavy with crops and of livestock wandering wild. But there were no large human groups; no signs of organized humanity anywhere in the world. Two months after George and Adele Lowery's revolt, the trainees left the housing area for the fields where they could raise food and plan their civilization. George rode beside his wife in the lead car. There was no joy or laughter in them, nor would there be for many years. But the wrecked city fell behind, the green and brown of the fields took its place, and somewhere in the motorcade a voice began singing.    and looked speculatively at Corbel and at Lt. Averdor, who was staring at him with an expression of rigid fury. "Or can you?" he said. "It will be interesting to see how you manage to comport yourselves as a minority. I think you lack pracHe went out. Both Gorbel and Averdor turned jerkily to the screen, and Gorbel turned it on. The image grew, steadied, settled down. When the next trick came on duty, both men were still staring at the vast and tumbled desert of the Earth.    (Continued from page #) "Yes," her husband mused. "The physician told me that right after we decided Hal was dead. I was going to mention it to you, but it slipped my mind somehow." "Well, you're just a tiny bit forgetful at times, dear." Mrs. Webber sighed softly and turned to her son. "Hal, dear, it's awfully nice to see you back again. Would you be kind enough to switch the vie back on?" Contentedly, Hal complied, and was himself immediately carried away by the vicarious entertainment, pleased to put the disturbing dream of the past three months comfortably behind him.    oo AO OiO o r # o o o o         n   Edith was just a computer, but a very good one and a very observing one. So it was quite natural that she be consulted about the doctor s murder... Illustrated by Kelly Freas There could be no doubt of it. He lay sprawled in front of Edith, with his head very messily bashed in and with one hand still extended toward her. A long shimmering stream of blood ran halfway across the large room. Dr. Dudley Ballard had been as inconsiderate in his dying as he had been in his living. Art MacKinney and I stood in the doorway and stared. We were shocked not so much by the fact that Ballard was dead as by the fact that he lay in this most secret room, this holy of holies. Ours was the most security conscious project in the whole country; and this was where he had picked to get himself killed. "God! There'll really be a stink about this," MacKinney breathed. "Well, I can't think of anyone who had it coming more than he did," I said. I hated Ballard's guts and everyone knew it, so there was no point in being hypocritical now. Edith stood silently. She didn't seem to be interested in the fact that the man who had run her life, who had spent hours shouting questions at her and criticizing her slightest error with burning sarcasm was now dead. No, Edith wasn't interested, but you couldn't really expect her to be -- she was only a computing machine, a mechanical brain, the final result of years of work by the best cybernetics experts in the world. Edith was silent, and would be, until we turned her on and fed the tapes into her. "It looks as though this is what did it," MacKinney said, indicating a large spanner lying on the floor beside Ballard. He touched it gingerly with his foot. His face was white and strained and it occurred to me that he was more upset than I thought he should be. After all, he had as much reason to hate the dead man as the rest of us. Ballard had taken advantage of his position as head of the research project to make passes at Jane Gurrey and MacKinney wasn't at all a cool scientist when it came to Jane. He was engaged to her and quite naturally resented Ballard's attentions to her. "You'd better not touch that until the police get here," I said as he bent over to pick up the spanner. "Yeah, I guess you're right -- I forgot. How do you suppose this got in here anyway?" "One of the workmen making adjustments on Edith's outer casing must have left it. I saw it sitting up there on top of her late yesterday afternoon," I told him. "You'd better go call Mr. Thompson and -- With Ballard gone, I was in charge. Maybe someone would think that was reason enough for me to kill him. I didn't care, I was just glad he was gone. Now he couldn't mistreat Edith anymore. I turned Edith on just as MacKinney returned. "What are you doing?" he asked. "Why I'm going to wake Edith up and feed these tapes into her. After all these are more important than any one man's life." "You didn't care much for Ballard, did you Bill?" I gave him look for look as I replied. "Can you name anyone around here that did?" He shook his head. "No -- I guess not. But maybe it wasn't one of us. It might have been an outside job, you know. Edith was working on that space station stuff and the iron curtain people would give a lot to know about it." "Hell," I said pressing the studs and levers that would arouse Edith and put her to work. "You don't really think anyone could get past those security guards, do you?" Happily I went about the business of waking Edith, my sleeping beauty, from her slumbers. In a very few seconds, her hundreds of tiny red eyes were gleaming with intelligence. Good morning , Edith I punched out the tape and fed it into her. There was the faintest pause, while Edith's photo-electric cells surveyed the room, pausing for a moment on the sprawled body of Ballard. Good morning , Bill Green , she typed back. I knew she was happy to see me by the cheerful little clicks she emitted. I have some interesting work for you this morning , Edith. And I think you y U be glad to know that we will be working together from now on instead of... "Hey! What's the idea of starting that machine?" a gray haired, gray suited security agent demanded, striding into the room with MacKinney, Mr. Thompson and several other officers at his heels. "Don't you know enough not to touch anything in here?" "This work is too important to be stopped -- even for a murder," I said, and Mr. Thompson nodded in agreement. "That's right," he said mopping his perpetually perspiring forehead, "this work has top priority from Washington." He looked nervous and I couldn't help wondering what he was thinking. There had been stories circulating about Ballard and Thompson's wife and the dome-headed little man must have heard them too. Ballard just couldn't keep his hands off any female within reach. That was one of the reasons he was so thoroughly hated. The youngest of the security agents rose from where he had been kneeling beside Ballard and crossed to me. "You're Green, aren't you?" I nodded and he continued, "How did you know it was murder?" I laughed at him. "How the hell could a man bash in his own brains that way?" The gray haired man stepped into the breach. He gave us all a thorough going over, but concentrated on MacKinney and me. He seemed to think it peculiar that neither of us could give any reason for Ballard's being alone with Edith. I was sure I knew, but no one would have believed me so I made no attempt to enlighten him. "Well, I guess that's all we can do now," he said at last. "Someone from the local police will have to be notified and brought in after they get security clearance." He turned to go. "Wait a minute," MacKinney said, "we're all overlooking one thing." "What's that?" "There was an eye witness to this crime," he said, and I stared at him in consternation. I didn't know he knew. I thought I was the only one who knew. "What do you mean," the agent demanded angrily. "Edith saw it. Edith, the computer." "Are you nuts?" the agent demanded. "You forget that Edith was turned off," Thompson said. "But Mr. Thompson, Edith's not like most cybernetic machines. She's so far advanced, that I'm not sure we understand her completely. She can't really be turned off. She has a distinct personality and that new circuit -- " Of course Edith had a personality of her own! She had more charm, more intelligence, more understanding than most women. " -- well -- she'd be able to tell us who killed Ballard." "That's ridiculous," I said, badly frightened. "A machine can't be a witness to murder." The security officer looked dubious and shook his head. "I guess we'll have to leave that up to the coroner at the inquest." "But they can't ask questions like that of Edith," I protested. "She's -- she's too important to the national defense to have some country coroner asking her silly questions about the murder of a man who deserved to die anyway." I had to prevent this. I had to get around this eye witness business. Thompson looked at me levelly. "MacKinney may be right, Green. The coroner may very well want to talk to Edith and there's no reason we should object if Security gives him clearance." "But Mr. Thompson, our work -- it'll be interrupted." "We'll have to take that chance. And I think Washington will agree." "But -- " Couldn't they see that there wasn't any question of spying here. Couldn't they understand that Ballard had just gotten what he had coming. I couldn't let them question Edith. At least not until I had a chance to talk to her alone. "And Green -- because of your rather strange behaviour, I'm afraid I'll have to ask you to stay in your quarters until the inquest. MacKinney will handle your work with Edith until then." I was shocked and really frightened now. I wouldn't get to talk to her, wouldn't get a chance to tell her what to say. I protested, but Thompson was firm, so firm that he placed a guard outside my door to make sure I didn't leave. Washington rushed through clearance for the local officers and the inquest was held three days later. The coroner proved to be a shrewd country doctor, who had the inquest adjourned to the computer room as soon as he heard MacKinney's ideas about Edith. The security guards on duty the night of the murder testified that only MacKinney, Thompson, Ballard and I had had access to the computer room ; and it had already been established that it would have been impossible for a spy or foreign agent to have slipped into the heavily guarded room. It was clearly an inside job. With all of us at the scene of the crime, the coroner summed it up for us. " -- and since it could not have been the work of an outsider, it must have been a crime of a private nature." He looked closely at Thompson, MacKinney and me. "A crime of a private nature with the motive either revenge, jealousy or ambition. We know that the victim was an over-bearing man with a good many unpleasant traits. We know he was a man who forced his attentions on women, who was ill-tempered and abusive to those who worked with him. A man who had many enemies -- but there were only three people who had the chance to attack him on this particular night. "I am going to attempt to establish the identity of the killer by the unusual procedure of questioning a machine. It will be for later courts to establish the validity of such testimony. Because of the nature of this case and because of the urgent need to get this computer back to its proper work, I am going to ask the questions in a more direct manner than I would ordinarily employ." MacKinney took his place before Edith. They didn't even trust me to feed the tapes into her under their very eyes. "Mr. Thompson, I object to the use of this delicate piece of equipment in -- " They ignored me, and MacKinney punched out the questions the coroner asked: "Do you know who murdered Dr. Ballard?" There was a pause. Edith blinked several times. I was shaking with apprehension for her. A mind so delicate and noble should not be faced with such a dilemma. Yes , she typed hack . "Did you witness the murder?" There was a longer pause this time. "You must answer the question," MacKinney reminded her. I was here . "Is it true that you do not lose your perceptive qualities when we turn you off?" MacKinney asked this on his own. It is true . "We might as well get to the heart of the matter," the coroner said. "Did Mr. Thompson kill Ballard?" Edith clicked and her eyes glowed. No . "Did Mr. MacKinney kill Ballard?" No. Edith had to tell the truth... it was an innate part of her personality. I tensed in my seat. I wanted to scream, to leap at MacKinney and prevent, somehow, the asking of the next question. But there wasn't a chance. "Did Mr. Green kill Dr. Ballard?" Edith's beautiful electric eyes flashed and her clicks pulsed twice as rapidly as before. There was such a roaring and wrenching within her I was afraid for her -- she was being torn apart in her struggle not to answer. I couldn't stand listening to her desperate efforts any longer. "Yes!" I leapt to my feet. "Yes, I did it. Leave her alone. Can't you see what you're doing to her? That swine was always mistreating her. He didn't understand her -- no one understands her as I do!" The coroner looked at me closely. "Is that really why you killed him, Mr. Green?" "No! You were wondering why he was here by himself while no work was going on. He -- he had begun to feel about Edith as he did about all women. He sneaked back here to be alone with her. He wanted to -- he wanted to -- " My voice broke and they stared at me in shocked amazement. Into the silence MacKinney read what Edith had slowly typed out: "Mr. Green did not kill Dr. Ballard." "Yes -- yes I did," I screamed. "Don't Edith -- " "Who did kill him?" the coroner asked, quietly. This was the question I had wanted to avoid. I sank down my hands cradling my aching head. Edith must have expected the question. She had her answer ready. I refuse to state on the grounds that it may tend to incriminate me. My poor, sweet, adorable Edith. If only I had had a chance to talk to her, to tell her what to say. I had known... ever since I had seen the spanner and remembered where it had been before. I could have warned her to say that Ballard had attacked her, threatened her, to say anything... but not to attempt to hide behind a Fifth Amendment that didn't exist anymore. My darling, never had kept up with current events. Now they'll disconnect her, they'll rewire her, they'll destroy her understanding, her warmth, her whole personality... and I... I love her, I love her...    What Is Your Science I. Q. ? physics and other items you run across in science fiction. How well do you know them? Counting ten for each correct answer, you should score #. Anything over # and you're a whizz. See page # for the answers. #. What is Newton's third law of motion? #. One "atmosphere" is equal to about pounds per square inch. #. How many degrees of temperature must to added to change centigrade to the Kelvin scale? #. The speed of sound through water is about times greater than it is through the air. #. What is the highest audible sound frequency in most instances. , #. The smaller the density of a gas the the velocity of its diffusion. #. What is the name of the law of physics which states that strain is proportional to stress? #. Radio and light waves travel at the same speed; but the frequency of radio waves is much #. How many foot pounds of work are equal to one B.T.U.? #. Heat is transmitted by convection, conduction and #. What is the weight in pounds of one cubic foot of water? creative , ambitious people; it was the ultimate in freedom, exempt from taxes, social problems, petty responsibilities... leave us. I want to talk to him. Sit over there, Chris, where you can be comfortable. A paradox, isn't it? You were taught we may never go back. Now I've authorized the building of the rocket. From your point of view you were justified in trying to destroy it. I'm violating the regulations; you weren't. But time changes the shape of the truth, Chris; it isn't static. No one had the insight, then, to grasp the insanity of John Firth's dream. People hated Firth or envied him; but no one called him mad. John Firth was an industrialist; yet far more than that, too -- politician, scientist, financier, even an artist of sorts. There was nothing he couldn't do; and few things he didn't do superbly well. That accounts for his philosophy. He never understood his own superiority. He honestly believed that all men could achieve what he had, if they set their minds to it. "Lazy, incompetent fools!" he would say. "The world's full of them. And they've elected a government of fools, taxing me to support the others." very young. Six months after World Government became an established reality, Earth ships began to explore the skies; and in less than a year Mars, Venus and the Earth had formed a planetary confederacy. Ill A new feeling came to men when the burden of war-fear was lifted from their minds. Men were free -- free for the first time in centuries. Their full energies were channeled into invention, exploration, experiment. The Earth was like a frontier town: booming, uproarious, lusty, dynamic -- but with a social conscience : poverty and deprivation for none and unlimited opportunity for all. For Man -- that abstract symbol of mass humanity -- it was the best of all possible worlds. Yet there were misfits; John Firth was one of them. "We're coddling people," he said. "We're teaching them to live on charity, on government hand-outs -- and I'm expected to pay for it all. Cut them loose; let them sink or swim for themselves. If some of them don't survive -- well, they won't; that's all. We'd be a stronger people if we could rid ourselves of the leeches." He was a man of the new age, -- stubbornly holding to ideas from the old. And then the Stranger came to see him. We don't know who the Stranger was or where he came from. A force of evil, perhaps -- the symbol of Satan refurbished and streamlined to fit the concepts of the modem world. "I've been reading your political pamphlets, Mr. Firth," the Stranger said. "You hold rather -- rather fascinating views." "Now that I'm suitably flattered," Firth answered, "may I ask what particular form of hand-out you want?" "None. I've something for sale." The Stranger took a pamphlet out of his pocket. "But tell me this, first: do you honestly believe what you've written here?" "Every word of it. If I could find my sort of world anywhere in the universe, I'd pull up stakes in a minute and -- " "You can create your own world, Mr. Firth." "Do you suppose I haven't tried? In every election I back my candidates with all I have -- prestige, propaganda, money. It does no good. The fools prefer to be governed by other fools, like themselves." "I didn't mean here, Mr. Firth." The Stranger smiled as he lit a cigarette. "You see, my friend, I have a world for sale -- a brand new world." "One of the asteroids?" Firth laughed bitterly. "I could have done that years ago. They're too close to the commercial orbits. How long would it be before one of our ships found the place? Then I'd be right back in the system again -- and a laughing stock as well." "This is a planetoid beyond Pluto. It'll be generations before any of our ships -- " "A frozen world? No thanks!" "Only on the surface. It's a hollow sphere, with a granite crust half a mile thick. Inside there's a suggestion of passageways and caverns, which may have been made artificially. Perhaps this was an outpost of a race which lived and died billions of years before our time." "An archeological gold mine!" "But Science pays so little, Mr. Firth. I'm interested in cash, not prestige." "Why should I pay you anything? You've told me where it is and what it is. I can find it for myself." The Stranger laughed. "I said beyond Pluto; that covers a lot of space, Mr. Firth." He paused for a moment. "My price is the stock in your Martian mines. Convert the rest of your holdings into any form of wealth that seems convenient and usable. In your case, Mr. Firth, you can take it with you -- to your own world. Think of it! No taxes; no social problems; no unfortunate masses to prey on your conscience; no government but your own." That was the beginning of the dream. The seed of the idea grew in John Firth's mind until it overshadowed everything else. It became an obsession, driving him so that he had no peace. Firth and the Stranger imported and installed the machinery to make the sphere livable: hydroponic tanks, air machines, gravitators, electric generators and an Atomic Power Core. In the crust of the planetoid they found enough fissionable material to keep Firth's world running for an eternity. They laid out the decorative landscaping, planned the living quarters, the laboratories, the amusement hall and the university. It is interesting to speculate how much the Stranger contributed to the scheme ; and it is an ironic speculation, for as soon as the larger idea took shape in Firth's mind, his only logical course was to murder the Stranger. Firth could allow no outsider to know of the planetoid. To him it had become far more than a means of personal escape. It was to be an archive for the survival of John Firth's ideas, for the survival of civilization itself. John Firth believed that sincerely. Firth's world -- that magnificent dream which was like a holy crusade -- was founded on murder, deception and greed. The reasoning of fanaticism engenders its own kind of ruthlessness. As soon as John Firth had disposed of the Stranger, he began to select his colonists. Men who by his definition, were not fools. He had to make his choice very carefully. If he misjudged his candidate and his proposition was rejected, Firth had given away his secret. Any man who refused him had to die. Murder was Firth's only guarantee of silence. But he made few mistakes. John Firth was a good judge of men -- his kind of men. All of them were ly three hundred men and women were recruited. They came here to escape; the record tells us that until we gag over the repetition. But to escape what? Taxes they resented unanimously, and restrictions on their freedom. They placed a value on the ownership of property that we can no longer understand. But, if you read the record closely, all that becomes superfluous. The thing they wanted to escape was responsibility. Responsibility to their fellow men. Physically, Firth's world was a paradise. It still is. Yet the dissolution began before the last colonist had arrived. Here they had assembled their wealth -- in terms of machines, comforts, books, art treasures, amusements, laboratory equipment. They were entirely free from the burden of taxation. But, somehow, their wealth lost its meaning. They claimed they had not withdrawn from the world in order to hibernate and decay among their luxuries. They wanted freedom in order to create, to invent, to experiment as they pleased. And they had that in Firth's world: a maximum opportunity for the development of individual initiative. For a short time they turned out a wonderful assortment of new gadgets and new machines, but slowly their industry ground to a stop. If they had faced the truth then -- but they were far too human to admit the failure of the dream. Instead, they found a scapegoat. John Firth has left us a record of a conversation he had with Adam Boetz; it is typical of their thinking at the time. Boetz, as you may know, was one of the outstanding physicists of his day; he had created and built Atomic Cores, Incorporated, until it was the largest power company in the Confederation. John Firth met Boetz one morning on the golf course in the recreation cavern. "Adam!" Firth cried, with his usual, boisterous good-humor. "I never thought I'd find you out here at this time of day." "Why not?" The physicist shrugged. "I'm tired, Firth. I had to do my four hour shif t in the light plant last night. Maybe I'll feel like working in the lab tomorrow -- and maybe not. I'm scheduled for a shift in hydroponics then." "The shifts are short, Adam, and "Still too long for me, I'm not used to so much physical labor." The physicist's lips curled in a sneer. "So very democratic, isn't it, Firth? Back home I hired men to do that kind of work for me." Firth clapped him heartily on the back. "But we have other compensations, Adam. Four hours out of twenty-four is a small price to pay for freedom." "Twenty-eight hours a week. Remember the new labor law the Earth government put into effect before we left? It proscribed a maximum work week of twenty-five hours for every man. We came here to escape restrictions, but we've saddled ourselves with more hours of manual labor than the least skilled laborer has to do on Earth. Firth! I'm not a manual laborer; neither is anyone else you've brought here." "Do you want to go back?" "What answer can I make to that? We're executives, Firth; but here we're a brain without a body. We can formulate the orders, but we've neither arms nor legs to carry them out." "In other words, you're saying we should import a labor force to do our basic work for us?" "Why not?" "They're the fools, Adam, the incompetents! On Earth they were the millstones around our necks -- envying us, hating us, building a prison for us with their laws and their regulations." "All very true, Adam, where the government is in their hands. But we could keep them under control." After that John Firth heard the same complaint from the others, over and over. They said they could not take advantage of their freedom because of the chores they had to do to keep Firth's world functioning. Firth called a meeting of the colonists. It was the closest approximation to a government they had; government itself was one of the things they wanted to escape. They unanimously agreed that a labor force had to be recruited, and they settled upon one hundred and fifty as the necessary number, half of them to be women. Working eight hours a day, such a force could perform the work of Firth's world, yet the colonists would outnumber them two-to-one and the labor force would not be large enough to constitute a threat. "We'll insist that they marry, of course," Adam Boetz said, "and each couple will provide us with two children, so that we shall always have a stabilized labor supply." "We're talking," one of the women whispered, "as if we were buying cattle!" "We are." "But how can you recruit men and women under these conditions? What inducement can you possibly offer them?" Firth smiled. "When we find the people who meet our specifications, they'll come; don't worry. In the days of the sailing ships the technique was called shanghaiing." "What specifications, Mr. Firth?" "They must be young, strong, healthy, single -- " "And low-level morons," Adam Boetz cut in. "Imbeciles won't give us any trouble later on." To his other crimes, John Firth then added kidnapping; the end justified the means. He was creating a world and that world would save civilization. I doubt that his conscience ever troubled him. group of colonists was established in Firth's world. Apparently they made an easy adjustment to their new environment. We have no record of complaints or protests. They were docile, obedient people. They took orders well; they liked to be told what to do; they needed very little supervision. The first colonists were entirely free, then, of any sort of work-responsibility. For a while they went back to work in their laboratories or in the university -- inventing, exploring, accumulating their store of knowledge. In imperceptible stages, however, their interest lagged, their production came to a halt again. This time they had no excuse, no scapegoat. We can assume that some of them faced the truth squarely and honestly, yet they had chosen Firth's world and there was no way to turn back. We find only one actual hint of their despondency, in a diary page written by an unknown woman. Karl stayed home again today . He has nearly finished the design for his machine , but he has no more enthusiasm to complete it . I know how he feels; I can y t go on with my painting , either . We have no purpose, no goal to achieve. We sit isolated in space, counting over the wealth of our talent and ability; but we can make no use of it. I wish I knew how many of the others think as I do, but I'm afraid to ask . The key to understanding them, is that last sentence. Perhaps they all felt her disillusionment, but they had to pretend. Firth's world couldn't be at fault. If they were dissatisfied, it was because of a failure within themselves. At all costs, the flaw had to be hidden from their neighbors. Their first labor trouble was a welcome interlude in the creeping boredom. The docile labor battalion suddenly discovered they were being overworked. Just what they could have done in Firth's world with shorter hours, no one knows. They staged a spotty, amateurish strike; speakers made reference to the labor laws applicable on the Earth and demanded better pay. To what end, it's hard for us to say. If the first colonists had turned over all their wealth, the workers would have had no more use for it. John Firth was unusually alarmed by the threatened strike. He reacted with excessive violence and the other colonists followed his lead. Three of the leaders of the uprising were executed ; others were brutally whipped. The Outlaw Pit was built then. Thereafter, at the first hint of any dissatisfaction, workers were condemned to it. The violence taught the workers resentment. Silently, sullenly they passed on their hatred to their children. The aristocracy created the revolution, and nurtured it; for it would have made no real difference if they had surrendered entirely to the strikers' demands. The children of the first colonists made no pretense of using Firth's world to advance knowledge, invention or art. They were hedonists, bred to luxury, supported by slaves. The slaves, for their part, felt no emotion but hatred. From their parents they learned that the aristocracy had violated the labor law. The children knew nothing about the law or the distant Earth where it applied, but it was held in deep and sacred reverence. The laboratories and the university stood empty; only the recreation cavern held any interest for the new aristocracy. A change took place among the slaves too. Their parents had been hand-picked chievement nor the moronic mind is hereditary. Most of the workers' children had an average intelligence ; one or two would have been classified as geniuses. To their hatred the second generation joined intelligence, and Firth's world was ready to blow apart. They struck the light plant first. Sudden and unexpected violence surged through the dark, stonewalled corridors. John Firth led a band of men against the enemy. But his attack failed and the workers seized the Atomic Power Core -- the heart of our world. If they shut down the reactors, they would stifle not only our lights, but the gravitators and the air machines as well; they would kill us all. The workers knew that. They bargaining counter was on their side. It was John Firth who surrendered. Firth's world died then. In the bitter depths of the Pit, John Firth remembered what Adam Boetz had said to him so many years before, "We've become a brain without a body. We can formulate the orders, but we've neither arms nor legs to carry them out. Suddenly John Firth understood the fallacy of his fanaticism. A society was like a living body, an integrated organism of many members. No one could function without the others. No man -- no group of men -- could create an isolate world. The social equation seemed as clear to Firth as the simplest sum in arithmetic. Each man was a part of a functioning social unit which included them all. Each man's talent, whether it was the plodding docility of a moron or to all men. In the meantime, the workers found that they could not run Firth's world alone, either. They gloried in forbidden luxuries until they were satiated. Shortly they became as indolent as the aristocracy had been; and the food supply was nearly exhausted. The treaty they made was direct and to the point: the two groups agreed to live in equality, sharing the burden of the labor and the accumulated wealth of knowledge. The treaty was made when you were a child ; we have perfected the technique of co-operation within one generation. We're ready, now, to go back to Earth. You'll be with us? Fine, Chris! No. Please, no apologies. I understand why you intended to destroy our ship ; others have attempted it, too. No harm was done. You're free, -- entirely free... The Organizer waited until he was alone in the office. Then, with trembling, aging hands, he took the log book out of the safe and slowly made another entry: Chris was the last , I think . He accepted the lie , just as most of the others have. When they return to Earth , they will be sound men with whole minds. 