You see, you arc a rare exception. What you arc, or possibly I should say, what you were, was a complete super ego. There are very few of those, Mr. Cutter, in this world, but you happened to be one of them. A really absolute, complete super ego, and the Confidet's cITect was simply the reverse of what it would have been with anyone else." Bolen shook his head, sympathetically, but he didn't stop smiling, and his eyes didn't stop their infuriating exploration of Cutter's face and eyes and hands. "It's really a shame, because I vvas almost certain you were a super ego, Mr. Cutter. And when you didn't return that last Confidet, I somehow felt that you might use it, after all that nasty business at the company and all. "But while I was fairly certain of the effects, Mr. Cutter, I wasn't absolutely sure, you see, and so like the rest of the experiments, I had to forget my conscience. I'm really very sorry." The anger was a wild thirrg inside Cutter now, and it made his hands tremble and sweat, and his mouth quiver, and he hated the man in front of him, the man who was responsible for what had happened to him, the smiling man with the soft voice and exploring eyes. But he didn't say anything, not a word. He didn't show his anger or his frustration or his resentment. He didn't indicate to Bolen a particle of his inner wildness. He didn't have the nerve.    The story of a woman patient who allowed doctors to graft living cancer cells under her skin was recently disclosed at a meeting of the American College of Surgeons. Hopelessly ill with a widespread cancer, she let doctors at Memorial Hospital in New York City operate to remove cancerous tissue for culture in laboratory animals and in test tubes. Several months later the doctors back-transplanted these cultured cells under her skin. They jjrcw actively, and when removed a second time for microscopic examination they proved to be identical with the cancer cells that had been removed in the original operation. Scientists who have struggled to control this killer disease have long been hampered by the fact that they must always work with mouse or rat cancers, or cells that have been cultivated outside the human body. Now, thanks to this heroic woman patient, science knows that the cells which have been cultivated outside the Ixidy are really human cancer cells, and drugs which work on these cells in test tubes are working on human cancer and can be used on patients with greater confidence. Nameless though she is, our Citation this month goes to this woman who pioneered so bravely in her desire to "be useful to humanity." Secrels entrusted to a few lhelUipu#iied be generally told -- things you ought to know, (ireat truths are dangerous to some -- but f;sc!.rs for personal powir and an.owpUhment in the hands of those who understand them. Behind the tales of the miracles and mysteries of the aiicicms, lie centuries of their seou probing into nature's laws -- their amazing iliscoveries of the h 'ul' iikH proit;sii uj man's mitiJ, and the p ?' Once shroudi ; ed in mjsiery n avoid their destruc' lion by mass tear and igmrance, these ' facts remain a u.setul heritage tor the i , thousands ol men and women who privately use them in their homes today.  'The Kosicrueians (not a religious u organization) an age-old hrotherhoid of learning, have preserved this secret wisdom in their archises for centuries. l'he now invite yon to share the praituul htlpjnines'i oj it.iir ttaihihg. W rite tixlay for a free copy of tlte book, ' I he Mastery of i.ite. " W ithin its pages rnas lie a new life il ojpcrluniiv lor you. Address: Scribe Ulje Rosicrucians L Illustrated by Virgil Finlay It was the Last Battle. The cavalry was ready. The air arm was ready. The troops were ready. Metal shining, relays renewed, energy reservoirs charged. Television for the world was ready... Was there anything not ready? barki'd "At case!" as he hurlii'd into the toiiunand room. Obediently, his three generals stood at ease. "We haven't much time," Fetterer said, glancing at his watch. "We'll go over the plan of battle again." Fie walked to the wall and unrolled a gigantic map of the Sahara desert. "According to our best theological information, Satan is going to present his forces at these coordinates." FIc indicated the place with a blunt forefinger. "In the front rank there will be the deviks, demons, succubi, incubi, and die rest of the ratings. Bael will command the right flank, Bucr the left. His Satanic Majesty will hold the center." "Rather medieval," General Dell inuimured. General Fettercr's aide came in. his face shining and happy with thought of the Coming. ".Sir," he said, "The prie.st is outside again." "Stand at attention, soldier," Fetterer said sternly. "I'here's still a battle to be fought and won." "Yes sir," the aide .said, and stot)d rigidly, some of the joy fading from his face. "The priest, ch?" Supreme General Fetterer rubbed his fingers together thoughtfully. Even since the Coining, since the knowledge of the imminent Last Battle, the religious workers of the world had made a complete nuisance of them.selves. They had stopped their bickering, which was commendable. But now they were trying to run military business. "Send him away," Fetterer said. "He knows we're planning Armageddon." "Yes sir," the aide said. He saluted sharply, wheeled, and marched out. "To go on," Supreme General Fetterer said. "Behind Satan's first line of defense will be the resurrected sinners, and various elemental forces of evil. The fallen angels will act as his bomber corps. Dell's robot interceptors will meet them." General Dell smiled grimly. "Upon contact, MacFec's automatic tank corps will proceed toward the center of the line. MacFee's automatic tank corps will proceed toward the center," Fetterer went on, "supported by General Ongin's robot infantry. Dell will command the H bombing of the rear, which should be tightly massed. I will thrust with the mechanized cavalry, here and here." The aide came back, and stood rigidly at attention. "Sir," he said, "The priest refuses to go. He says he must speak with you." Supreme General Fetterer hesitated before saying no. He remembered that this was the Last Battle, and that the religious workers ivere connected with it. He decided to give the man five minutes. "Show him in," he said. The priest wore a plain business suit, to show that he represented no particular religion. His face was tired but determined. "General," he said, "I am a representative of all the religious workers of the world, the priests, rabbis, ministers, mullahs, and all the rest. We beg of you, General, to let us fight in the Lord's battle." Supreme General Fetterer drummed his fingers nervously against his side. He wanted to stay on friendly terms with these men. Even he, the Supreme Commander, might need a good word, when all was said and done... "You can understand my position," Fetterer said unhappily. "I'm a general. I have a battle to fight." "But it's the Last Battle," the priest said. "It should be the people's battle." "It is," Fetterer said. "It's being fought by their representatises, the military." The priest didn't look at all convinced. Fetterer said. "You wouldn't want to lose this battle, would you? Have Satan win?" "Of course not," the priest murmured. "Then we can't take any chances," Fetterer said. "All the governments agreed on that, didn't they? Oh, it would be very nice to fight Armageddon with the mass of humanity. Symbolic, you might say. But could we be certain of victory?" The priest tried to say something, but Fetterer was talking rapidly. "How do we know the strength of Sattm's forces? We simply must put forth our best foot, militarily .speaking. And that means the automatic armies, the robot interceptors and tanks, the H bombs." The priest looked very unhappy. "But it isn't right' he said. "Certainly you can find some place in your plan for people?" Fetterer thought about it, but the request was impossible. The plan of battle was fully developed, beautiful, irresistible. Any introduction of a gross human element would only throw it out of order. No living flesh could stand the noise of that mechanical attack, the energy potentials humming in the air, the ail-enveloping fire power...A. humati being who came within a hundred miles of the front would not live to see the enemy. "I'm afraid not," Fettcrer said. "There aie some," the priest said sternly, "who feci that it was an error to put this in the hands of the military." "Sorry." Fettcrer said cheerfully. "That's defeatist talk. If you don't mind -- " Me gestured at the door. Wearily, the priest left. "These civilians," Fettcrer mused. "Well, gentlemen, arc your troops ready?" "We're ready to fight for Him," General MacFee said enthusiastically. "I can vouch for every automatic in my command. 'I'hcir metal is shining, all relays have been renewed, and the energy reservoirs arc fully cliarged. Sir, tliey're positively itching for battle!" G('neral Origin snapped fully out of bis daze. "The ground troops are ready, sir!" "Air arm ready," General Dell said. "Excellent," General Fettcrer said. "All other arrangements have been made. Television facilities are available for the total population of the world. No one, rich or poor, will miss the spectacle of the Last Battle." "And after the battle -- " General Ongin began, and stopped. He looked at Fettcrer. Fettcrer frowned deeply. He didn't know what was supjrosed to happen after The Battle. 'I'hat part of it 'as jrrcsumably, in the hands of the religinus agencies. "I suppoM' ihrre'll he a presentation or something," he said vague'y"You mi-an we will meet -- Him?" Gemial Dell asked. "Don't really kiinvv," Fcllcn-r said. "But I should think so. Alter all -- I mean, you know wli.ii I mean." "But what should we wear?' General AlacFec asked, in a suilcicn panic. "I mean, what does one wear?" "What do the angels wetir?" Fettcrer asked Ongin. "I don't know," Ongin said. "Rotics, do you think?" General Dell oli'ered. "No," Fetlerer stiid sternly. "We will wear dress uniform, without decorations." Till' generals nodded. It was fitting. And then it was time. G orgeous in their battle tirray, the legions of Hell advanced oei the desert. Hellish j)ipes skirled, hollow drums pounded, and the great ghost moved loruard. In a blinding cloud of sand. General Mael'ee's automalie tanks hurled themselves against the Satanic foe. Immediately, Dell's automatic bnrnirers screeched overhead, liurlitig their bomirs on the inas.sed horde of the daiimed. Fetterer thrust s'aliantly vith his automatic calvalry. Into this melee advanced Ongin's automatic infantry, and metal didwhat metal could. The hordes of the damned overflowed the front, ripping apart tanks and robots. Automatic mcchanisins died, bravely defending a patch of sand. Dell's bombers were torn from the skies by tile fallen angels, led by Marchodas, his griffin's wings beating the air into a tornado. The thin, battered line of robots held, against gigantic presences that smashed and scattered tliem, and struck terror into the hearts of television viewers in homes around the world. Like men, like hero-s the robots fought, trying to force back the forces of evil. Astaroth shrieked a command, and Bi'hemoth lumbered forwaid. Bael, with a wedge of devils behind him, threw a charge at General Fetterer's crumbling left flank. Metal screamed, electrons howled in agony at the impact. Supreme General Fettcrer sweated and trembled, a thousand miles Ix'-hind the firing line. But steadily, nervelessly, he guided the pushing of buttons and the throwing of levers. His superb corps didn't disappoint him. Mortally damaged robots swayed to their feet and fought. Smashed, trampled, destroyed by the howling fiends, the robots managed to hold their line. Then the veteran Fifth Corps threw in a counterattack, and the enemy front was pierced. A thousand miles behind the firing line, the generals guided die mopping up operations, "The battle is won," Supreme General Fetterer whispered, turning away from the television screen. "I congratulate you, gentlemen." The generals smiled wearily. Thev looked at eadi other, then broke into a spontaneous shout...Armageddon was won. and the forces of Satan had been vanquished. But something was happening on their .screens. "Is that -- is that -- " General Mac Fee Ix-gan, and then couldn't speak. For The Presence was upon the battlefield, walking among the piles of twisted, shattered metal. The generals were silent. The Presence touched a twisted robot. L'pon the smoking desert, the robots began to move. The twisted, scored, fused metals straightened. The robots stood on their feet again. "Mac Fee," Supreme General Fetterer whispered. "Try your controls. Make the robots kneel or something." The general tried, but his controls were dead. 'file bodies of the robots began to rise in the air...Around them were the angels of the Lord, and die robot tanks and soldiers and bombers floated upward, higher and higher. "He's saving them!"' Ongin cried hysterically. "He's saving the robots!" "It's a mistake!" Fetterer said. "Quick. Send a messenger to -- no! We will go in person!" And (juickly a ship was commanded, and quickly diey sped to the field ol battle. But by then it was too late, for Armageddon was over, and die robots gone, and the Lord and his host departed.    What Is Your Science I.O.? are some of the wonderful sights that would be pointed out to you. How many do you know? Counting five for each correct answer, # is passing, # very good and # is excellent. The answers arc on page I #. #. An especially bright meteor or fireball is called a . #. What is the name of the substance regarded as the only form of matter in which the phenomena of life are matiifestcd? #. Which of the following is not a part of the sun: chromosphere, Baily's Beads, corona, photosphere? #. In one second a ray of light could travel around the Earth's equator -- times. #. Triton and Nereid are the two moons of . #. When we speak of an Earthman we call him a Terran. W'hat other designation is often used? #. What is the name of the nearest bright star, four light years away? #. Polaris is the North Star of the present; but in the time of the ancient Egyptians was the North Star. #. How many constellations arc there in the heavens as we know them? #. The only moon known to us that has an atmosphere is . #. What is the name of tlie largest known asteroid? #. Eleven Earth years are equal to one year on . #. According to the Doppler shift a star that is in the violet shift on the spectrum is the Earth. #. What escape velocity is nccessai # for a ship to leave the Earth's atmosphere? #. What have the following in common? Antlia, Volans, Norma, Crater, Pavo, Tucana? #. The straight line joining the center of an attracting body with that of the body describing an orbit around it is called a . #. What is the name of the comet that returns every # years? #. Double stars which revolve around each other are called #. Which of the following is not a moon of Jupiter? lo, Europa, Mimas, Callisto, Ganymede? #. Another name for the ionosphere is . World Without War Cooperation was all right back in the dark ages but this was an era of super culture and hi-psi intelligence. And love was no laughing matter. People who cooperated, even biologically, were unlawful and... stop. He was already late for Jcnnette's birthday party, but the sight of three people out in the open like this was too much. He pulled around and hovered over the undulating flow of glassy magma, frozen on its way to the long, dry Potomac river bed, with its shallow caverns and fascinating mile-wide potholes. Just under an overhanging clilT' of half-vitrified soil were two cars, obviously damaged. The three men were standing beside them. Mark laughed out loud. It was not often that one found three people at once. And so close to each other. The scene there, with the long, slanting rays of milky sunlight glancing off the ribbing of the flats brittle shards of collapsed debris, filled him with a certain poetic exultation. "By the stars," he murmured to himself happily. Bubbling with good humor, he slipped down a little closer to the hole, staying up hard against the overhanging clilT. He was feeling too cheerful to use his rightful advantage over them, and decided to use a handgun, since they had nothing better. This was a mistake, of course. He was only moving along at a hundred miles an hour now. Too slow for safe shooting, particularly witlt llic bumpy air in the hole. But he ha)pily di'-rcg.iidi-il this, as he pushed oX'n a view poi t and blazed away with a zuzz pistol. MnKKt immediately tlic ship lurihr-d in the imeveii air, and he rimld see the tiny thin trace of violet as it swept up and awav off the taruels. One of the men went slown.liei-il cle.mlv in two. But the otlieis h.id seen him. Mark euiN d mildly, some of his high good humor gone, and pulled the car ahoui for another run. 'I'he ehronometer pinged s.trtiingly at him, nniifuing him that he was now a full hour late for Ji'nnette's birthday party, but the code re(uiied the siaoml try. There .is nothing that required h.indwe.iiMinv for ihi's. however, and he slipM-l his strong young hands iroiind the main gun control.  single burst of vioh-t. and one of the men v.mished in a puff of sti-.nn. Gol and eli-an. he told himself with satisf.ietion. But the ki'l man ojiened his )istol onto broad-beam, burning a red flare of gi-neral destiuetion at him. Mark veered around and bore down sli.irplv foi' the last burst. He h.iil to get it over witli and on to Jt mieite. Bill the deadly broad be.im swept bi-low the ear, evacuating the air and throwing the vehicle monienlaiily out of control. Close behiiul. the clilf iMvaine suddenly alive as the Ikmiii engaged it, iiubbling and sjK'wing out huge gouts ol molten rx-k. The airear foloied fire and fell, with Mark burning inside of it, yelling and screaming in pain. It took almost five seconds before tlic charntl brain of Mark's body .sto#iK'd fimclioning. Then it reHe was conscious of the humiimiiedi.itely the remembered pain l)rought rerspiration running down inside the helmet into his eyes. He reached up and removed the headpiece with unsteady hands, groaning softly. it had been some decades since he had last been involved in trouble like this. Killed, yes -- but in a painless, fair fight. Being burned to death was no joke. And that body had been one of his best, with the finest reflex sensory systsm manufactured. The machine purred softly beside him. He thought suddenly and emptily of jennette, and stood up. "Damn," he muttered, crossing the floor, feeling the pleasant warmth of the soft plastic under his feet. "Damn, damn, damn." He stopped before the transparent cover of a storage cabinet, gazing sourly at its contents. Eleven humanoid forms were stiffly erect behind the cover, all broadly resembling him in feature, and differing only in such minor things as height, hair, perhaps the color of the eyes. Each bore the scars of some past clumsiness or accident. "Damn," Mark said again. "That was the only decent body I had to wear. Now what do I do?" He went into the next room and bathed himself in the tepid perfumed mist that fell perpetually from its domed ceiling. If it were anybody but Jennette, there would be no problem. He just would have to .shoot off a quick RT, explaining the situation and excusing himself. Nobody would have minded, least of all himself. Particularly a nofight affair like this one was supposed to be. But not Jennette. Olihh, Jennette. Mark grinned and rubbed the pleasant fluid over his well-caredfor skin. Oh yes, Jennette. There was something about Jennette that he could not quite put his finger on, but it was good. It was wonderously good. Like the bodies she wore. No matter what it was, it was always perfect. She just had the knack of dressing well. Idly he wondered what her protobody was like. There must be some resemblance, of course. That was the law. Identification was very important, and few manufacturers would violate that, even as a simple matter of good taste. But there still would be considerable difference. As he thought about it, he got a strange wistful feeling that he did not quite understand. There was a sort of sadne.ss about it. Jennette seemed oddly different from other people. He liked her much too much. Guiltily he brushed the thoughts aside. Anyway, it didn't matter, he told himself. Due to his carelessness in that last fight, he probably wouldn't even see her tonight, since he had nothing to wear. He stalked out of the shower and gazed again at the bodies in the store room. The only halfway decent one there was that six foot black fellow with the little ears. It used to be his favorite, until he got it smashed one night during a party at his nearest neighbor's. A lialf smile tugged at Mark's lips as he recalled the incident. That had been a no-fight parly, too; but he had managed to smuggle in a small bomb, and set it ofi' right in the middle of the main bedroom. There were at least ten couples there, since it was a big party, and none of them lived. The trouble was, Mark had been pretty badly smashed up him.self, and just managed to get away without losing his body. Now the thing was all scarred up and practically useless for anything e.xcept manual labor. Mark shook his head disgustedly. There was nothing to do but send off the RT to Jennette. But this was her birthday -- He caught a glimpse of himself in the reflection from his transmitter housing and automatically straightened his shoulders a little, then laughed at his image. Then he stopped and contemplated himself further. There was one thing he could do. Many years before, he had an e.xacl duplicate of himself produced, when the vogue for copper colored bodies was at its height. Since then lire fasliion had changed back to the pink, but that old job must still be around somewhere. He hated to do it, though. He had never liked that body. It had been just too accurate, and every time he wore it, it embarrassed him. It had been almost as if he were going outside in his protobody. Which, of course, nobody did. People used their own bodies hundreds of years ago, but it was most uncivilized. Besides, it was tiring, and dangerous, too. Yet -- was it more fun? He wondered. He simply had to make Jennette's )aity. Olhcrwi.se he wouldn't see her for months at least, and the ihouglit of that made him feel funny in his stomai li. M.iik giinmil again, admiring her image in his mind, and set about his t .il.ilogue to find the fund.uncnl.il ficiiicncy of that old copy ol bim.scli. I'kise it, he told liiniself resolutely. Nobody would know it was an cx.ict dupliiate. lie loiateil the il.ita and set It ujj in the transiniltcr. lie had no idea wheie the body was, but that would take care of it.sclf if it were still in good shaiJc. Placing the helmet on his head, he punched the controls and relaxed back on the table. pile of dust-covered trash, the body became suddenly conscious. Mark opened his eyes and looked around, recognition slowly returning. He had forgotten all about this old room, but tlien -- one could hardly remember everything about a full shelter system, what with the hundreds of compartments, endless automatic ctuipment and innumerable connecting passages. Whoever it was who built this one sure had liked comple.xity. He bathed and carefully braided tire long, blueblack hair, simulating somewhat the fashion of the day, and spent some time adjusting a purple scarf over his left shoulder. The purple scarf was sort of a trade mark witli him, and Jennette always admired it. Purple was her favorite color. He made a joke out of it and called it Their color, which was typical of the strange, dangerous behavior she engendered in him. Mark was a little worried as he plunged up toward tlie stratosphere in his extra car. This time he kept clearly in his mind the fact that this was his last serviceable body, and he could take no chances with it getting ruined. Even if he saw a whole multitude of people, all clustered together, he would ignore them, he told himself. Halfway there, however, he spotted a peculiar marking on the scope, and detoured. The peculiar marking followed him. Anxiously, he looked out a clear view panel, but could see nothing in the cold, mist-laden night. The marking grew more definite as he hesitated. It was another car, and there could be no question what it was after. A shot at Mark. He cursed and sucked in his breath, making quick calculations. There was a rolling billow of cobalt fog off to one side, a whole bank of the stuff. Somebody apparently had been having a little game nearby. It was still hot enough, according to his indicators, to discharge anything the other car sent after him, and he would have the added advantage of being invisible to tlie other man's instruments. The only trouble was, once in the fog, he couldn't see anything either, and could be ambushed without difficulty on the way out. The marking on the scope became more definite, and the question settled itself as the other car came between Mark and the cloud. Growling with irritation, Mark swung around and sent a wide angle beam in the direction of his pursuer, watching nervously as the indicators described the pitiful short range of his fire at this setting. The assailant veered off, however, scurrying into the cobalt cloud. Mark grinned. He knew the man would expect him to wait for him to come out, so he swooped down at max acceleration toward the surface. In five minutes he was signaling into Jennette's shelter for permi.ssion to enter. There were servants everywhere -- mechanical things, controlled by electronics and not alive, although they looked it. This was jennette's specialty. She owned a factory that manufactured them for mining on the scalding plains of Mercury, and these had been superficially remodelled to act as .servants. There was the usual government man there, too, running the party. He strutted around under his official sash with ill-concealed self-importance. "Hey you, there -- w'ait a minute," he called to Mark, waving a zuzz pistol in his direction. "Yes?" Mark hesitated, eyed the pistol, and obeyed. "That scarf -- get it off," the man ordered sternly as he approached. The zuzz pistol was level and steady. "Why?" Mark demanded. "It's just a scarf. I always wear one." "You know why," the other man said coldly. "This is a tetotal party. If I let somebody slip a weapon or something in, it would be an awful brawl in no time. You know how people are." The man was right, of course. You can conceal a lot of things in the fabric of a sheer scarf. Reluctantly, Mark undid the catch and handed it over. "Okay. You can pick it up at the entrance when you leave." The officer's amused eyes wrinkled as he looked Mark up and down. "Say, that's a pretty nice job you've got there, man. Mind if I ask who made it?" "It's pretty good," Mark said cautiously. "It's custom made to a private specification." The officer grinned goodnaturedly. "Sure, I understand. That's all right. I'm not from the revenue department. I don't have to do anything about bootlegging." "I don't mean that." Mark protested. "There's nothing illegal -- " The man waved his disregard anyway. "Forget it. It's a nice one, though, .nd that cop#cr color is coming back soon, too. These fashions run in cycles, you know." "Yes," Mark murmured diffidently. 'T thought so, too." "Sure." The officer eyed it speculatively for a moment. "Two point oh one centimeter naval, isn't it? They're the best, of cour.se." Mark nodded shortly, looking away from the talk.itive officer, hoping he would stop. But the man went on. "And I don't have any use for these new non-feeders they've been coming out with recently." "No," Mark mumbled. "It's all right to fix it so that the food is not necessaiy, and it really is a bother to have to feed those old models whether you want to or not. But sometimes you like to eat something just for the fun of it, and with the non-feeder models there's no receptacle for it." Mark nodded, his eyes searching the huge anteroom, gazing hopefully between die moving ranks of robot servants. Then he saw her and caught his breath. low whi.sile in time-honored acclamation tif exi clleiue. The officer followed his g.re and agreed. "Yes," he s.iid in a low voice, "that girl is really Munething. Prisure knows how tci use it. Take that little golden job she's wearing tonight. Nothing to it. But with her, it's tei rifle." He uas right. Jennettc was wearing a slender, soft-looking golden little boily that Mark had nc'er seen before. But it was a real prize. Being hoste.ss, she could have clothes on, and spoi ted a half dozen little bracelets and a jet black bandana around her throat. The thing was draped down oer her left Itrc.ist, and the whole etlect was really Cjuite stunning. "Oh Mark!" she exclaimed, running up with an odd sort of breathlessness. "'mrre late." "Sony Jennette," he replied. "Ran into a little trouble and had to go back for another body." "You must h;i'e missed," she said with amused ticcusation. "I'm surprised ;it you. ".w, there were three of them," he protested. ".nd the last one used a broad betmi." "Never mind, I forgive you," she told him. "Gome along. Let's go look at my garden." Mark grinned hap)ily. "Wonderful ideti. But what about your guests? Are you just going to leave them like tlKil?" "I'his is my birthday," she said. "They can amuse themselves." Then she pulled him down and put her lips to his ear. "Besides," she whispered. "I've got an identical copy with electronic works. No one will even know I've left, unless they get too friendly with it." "Pretty clever," Mark admitted thoughtfully. "But I wouldn't always be so ready to break the law like that." "Who's to know except you, Mark?" She looked up at him with burning, gold-flecked eyes. "You wouldn't tell anybody, would you?" Mark shook his head uncomfortably. "All right, then." They entered the elevator that took them down another half mile to the central living quarters of the ancient shelter. It had been built early in the flux period and remodelled several tiimts. It was one of the best equipped on the planet. "Tell me," Jennette said, gazing appreciatively at the heavy bronze shoulders, "where on earth did you get that?" "I -- Oh, it was just lying around somewhere," Mark mumbled. "I bet," she said. "But it's nice. I like it." Mark just grinned at her, happy for the moment, secure in the knowledge that it would be impossible for her ever to know that it was really identical with his protobody. Not that it would matter, just so long as it was artificial. He listened to the humming of the elevator for a few minutes. When it stopped the door vanished, and the two of them moved out into a sea of wild, colorful beauty. High above them was a simulated sun that made as good a substitute for the real thing as had been developed since the underground movement. "Bright," Mark commented. "Oh, that's right. I've been forcing some Venerian puffers and scent flowers, and raised the radiation level ten decibels. They always do well under a strong sun, you know." She left his arm and moved to a control panel beside the entrance to the elevator. She manipulated something and the sun dimmed a little. "There," she turned around. "Better?" Mark looked at the landscape, then back to her. He grinned. "Too much light." "Oh you -- " she murmured. She touched the controls, and the sun disappeared, being replaced by a huge, mellow moon that sailed majestically on the simulated horizon. It was impossible to tell it from the real thing. "How's that?" "A little dark." Ignoring his comment, she came back and took his arm, and they went strolling across the flowers and grass. "Don't you like my moon, Mark?" "Sure. It's fine. Sort of aphrodisiac, of couree, but -- " "Isn't that what it's for?" Jennette asked innocently. "I dunno. I never had a moon." "Let's sit down here," she said abruptly. T hey were eating pomegranates, biting briefly into them and sucking on the sour juices. The moon had risen higher during the past hour, becoming a little smaller in appearance. It was a peaceful, contemplative scene. Jennette snuggled up against Mark, thoughtfully tracing a design with fruit juice onhis arm. "This is fun," she said softly. "So much more fun than the usual things a person has to do." "Mmmm?" "Oh, you know. Checking reports from the factory, making sure there is plenty of ammunition all the time, ijestering the body manufacturers so you'll always have something decent to wear. Always watching or somebody will sneak in and blow up part of your shelter." "Yeah. Well, guess that's life." Jennette sighed and picked up another fruit. "It gets so tiresome, always basing to keep on the lookout and fighting people. Don't you get bored by it." "Sure, sometimes. It's gotta be done though. Otherwise you couldn't tell what might happen." "Mark -- " Jennette said hesitantly"Yes?" "Mark, would you shoot me if you found me outside your shelter?" She looked coyly up at him. "Well, sure, unless you had a proper, government-authorized permit to be there." Mark turned astonished eyes on her. "What else could I do?" "Oh, but you know I wouldn't do anything to harm your place." "Aw, Jennette," Mark said uncomfortably, "of course you would. Anybody would. If people started acting like that, the whole balance would be upset." She gently stroked his arm where the fruit juice had dried. Her face crinkled up and she giggled. "Maybe you just don't know me." "Let's talk about something else," Mark suggested. "What's the matter? Do I shock you?" Mark laughed and brushed his lips against her shoulder. "I'm pretty hard to shock. Expecially by you." "See?" she replied archly. "You're just as anti-social as I ini. Mark's face clouded. "It's nothing to brag about, though." 'T'it not bragging." She sighed again, and resumed her fruit. Eying it speculatively, she said, "I guess I'm just bored with life, that's all. Sometimes things seem so silly. Like all the times you have to get a new body. You'd think the manufacturers were giving them away free." "Yeah. Not like it used to be. Guess business is pretty good." "Something ought to be done about it." Mark grinned mischievously. "What do you suggest? Build another factory?" "Oh, you know you can't do that. Somebody is always blowing it up." "Well, don't worry. In another hundred years or so, people will start dying off again. These protobodies aren't as serviceable as the manufactured kind." "Yes, but if they keep producing new people in the Decanting Centers, what good is that going to do?" "I dunno. Blow up the Decanting Centers, maybe." "Maybe," Jennette said, glancing impishly at the man beside her, "we ought to just stop wearing these silly old manufactured bodies entirely." "Yes?" Mark tasted a pomegranate, made a face, and tried another. "Just what do you suggest people wear?" "They could go around in their protobodics." "What?" Mark looked swiftly and scarchingly at her, alarm on his face. "Why Mark," she laughed disarmingly. "You're such a righteous beast, aren't you?" "Great Atoms, jennette," he said, gazing intently at her goldendecked eyes, wondering what strange things went on inside that lovely head. "You mean go around all the time as if w'e were savages? Why that's illegal, immoral, and besides -- besides, it's dangerous. Suppose somebody took a shot at you? You've only got one protobody, you know." "A clever fighter like you shouldn't have too much trouble writh that, if you're careful," she said gaily. "And I'm pretty good at that myself." Mark took a slow deep breath as he decided that she was just teasing him. "I'm surprised at you, Jennette." She shrugged. "I'm bored, I guess. I'd like to try something new, just for excitement. Personally, sometimes I think the whole social system we have is pretty silly, anyway." "Atoms," Mark mumbled. "No need to swear about it," she chided him. "Come on, Mark. Just think about it for a minute. And be consistant." "Consistancy is all right for a free psi," he said. "It sure doesn't do a protobody any good." Jennette laughed scornfully. "I'll bet you believe all that stuff they feed you in the Decanting Center about ancient history." " 'Course not," Mark said defensively. "All right then. Why follow all these rules of social conduct if there's no good basis for them?" ".Aw, but there is," he replied seriously. "There was a big war -- way back centuries before we were decanted out at Center." "Hah," said Jennette. "Sure. And it was a whole lot of people w'ho cooperated with each other in it. There must have been hundreds of them -- it was an awfully big war. Hundreds of people, all on one side, all fighting together against the other side." "I don't believe it." "It's true, I tell you," Mark insisted religiously. "Hundreds and hundreds of people. Maybe even as many as a thousand, all dressed alike -- with clothes, I mean. And they didn't shoot each other -- they just killed the people they were fighting -- the hundreds of people on the other side." "Other .side of what?" Mark frowned. "Oh, I guess that is just an expression. But that's what happened, anyway. Before civilization got started, people cooperated like that." "That's just a whole lot of theory," Jennette Insisted. "Nobody's going to make me ever believe people used to act like that. Besides, there just aren't enough people around to have all those mythical wars." Patiently, Mark continued. "I'm telling you, Jennette, this is more than theory. There are still some records left from those days." "Prove it." "All right. That's not hard. Somebody had to build the factories, didn't they? And the Decanting Centers?" "Robots." "Who built the first robot factory?" Jennettc considered. Then she shrugged petulantly. "Ob all right. Maybe a few people did cooperate. But not hundreds of them. People just don't act like that." "Well, they did. And, of course, the obvious thing happened. Since thev cooperated in some things, they cooperated in a lot of thing.s, even fighting. That'.s liow they could make war, you know -- not the nice, social sort of fighting we do now. And you can imagine w'hat happened. You can kill an awful lot of people awful fast, if a gang gets together on it like that. If they didn't h.ive the artificial bodies and the psi transfer transniitters to make them come alise, tliere wouldn't have been anybody left after a while. 'I'liat cooperation is rough stuir." "Obviously," she commented dryly. "Well, that's the reason for everything, then. Pietty soon the factories couldn't turn out hypnobodies fast enough and #eode luid to fight in their protobodies sometimes. But after a few centuries, the leaders began to get civilied, and decided to put an end to all tliis cooperative and agreed not to coo)eiate with each other in anything in the future." "It stand.s to reason," Mark concluded, "people had to learn to be civilized. They weren't just born that w'ay. It's -- it's culture." "Pouf," said Jennette critically. "All right," he growled, biting viciously into a pomegranate. "Let's hear your big story if it's so good." legs and contemplated her wiggling toes. "Oh, I don't know. I don't have any real ideas. But I know Ix'tter than to believe that sort of nonsense. People just ari'n't like that, and you know it." She hesitated thoughtfully, tht.'n continued. "Maybe a feu of them got together now and then for a party or something like this. But not hundreds of them." When Mark did not reply, she laughed and said, "I guess I'm just feeling riscpie tonight." "You sure aie," he mumbled. "Of course there aie parts of the old mythology that seem rather interesting -- beautil ul , even -- " "It's not mythology'." "Liki' the part that deals with marriage." She waited. Mark dutifully echoed, "Deals with what?" "Marriage." Mark considered it. Then he shook his head. "NN'hat's that?" "See? she taunted him. "You don't know everything like you think you do. Marriage," she explained, "was a sort of cooperative agreement that the ancient people were supposed to have entered into." "Sure, just like I said," Mark stated with assurance. "Hundreds of people did it. Tlu.-y got involved in this marriage agieement, and made war on each other with it." "What a dope. Marriage was an agreement between just two peopie. And that much I might believe. Hundreds is too much." "It was hundreds," Mark insisted. "It was not. It was just two. And what's more, it wjis between a man and a woman. They lived together with their protobodies and agreed to cooperate together, and they made children and took care of them until they grew up." "Why that's thirt)' or forty years," Mark exclaimed. "Even tlie wars didn't last that long. That's really nonsense. Besides, you can only make children in the Decanting Centers. And it's all done by machines." "Well, maybe it is a little far fetched. But I think it's cute." "Humph." There was a few minutes silence. Then Tennette said softly, "Mark -- " "Yes?" "Mark, you like me a lot, don't you?" Mark squirmed uncomfortably, and stared at the artificial moon. "Don't you?" she insisted. "More than you ever have anybody else?" "Well, guess that's right," he admitted lamely. "A whole lot more than I should." She reassuringly patted his hand with her little one. "That's all right, Mark. I won't tell anybody. Besides, I feel just the same way about you." Mark nodded without .speaking, worriedly studying the vague markings on the bright luminous disk in the simulated sky. "Mark, don't you ever want to see the real me?" she inquired urgently. "Don't you sometimes feel kind of empty because you can never really have me -- know me, because all you ever see is a manufactuied thing that only somewhat resembles what I am really like?" Mark blushed. She had come a little too close to the uncomfortable truth. But he rcfu.sed to admit it, at least to her. He mumbled an indistinct denial. "Are you sure?" she said, grabbing his hands, gazing intently into his eyes, forcing him to look at her. "Wouldn't you sometime like to come down to my transmitter quarters?" "But -- " "And see and touch my protobody -- the thing I really am?" "Aw -- " "Scared?" "Maybe I am." "That's silly." Mark swallowed and said stiffly, "Just becau.se there is a no-fight clause in your invitation tonight doesn't necessarily mean I have to follow it, you know. You don't need weapons. I could strangle your protobody easily." "You wouldn't," she said confidently. "You sure don't think much of me, do you?" "I think just the same of you as you do of me," she said simply. With impulsive hunger, Mark threw his arms around her, holding her tightly against him, nuzzling her, smelling the perfume of her hair, incoherently mumbling into her ear. "Jennette, Jennette," he sang, "I think more of you than anything. I love you. I know it's wrong, but I would never even shoot you, because sometimes it hurts you, and I wouldn't want you to feel even the slightest discomfort." He stopped, took a deep breath, and added meekly, "I'm sorry." "But Mark," she wliispered. "Why is it really so wrong?" "You know." "Suppose I told you that this body i.s my protobody right now?" she asked earnestly. "But it isn't." "It is," she said faintly. Mark's breath hi.ssed as he gasped, jennette was blushing all over her body, heightening the golden color of it. He let her go, and she slid off his lap onto the shadowed grass beside him. She bit her lip. "I didn't really mean to tell you -- yet." Tliere was silence. Mark said quietly, "That's all right, Jennette." "You aren't angry with me, are you?" "No," he said slowly. "Not angry." "Mark -- " "Yes?" "Now that we're Into this thing," she asked hopefully, "why don't we try this marriage agreement -- you know, like the ancients did. It seems like such a beautiful thing to do when two people like us -- you know." "I don't know." Mark sliook his head doubtfully. "I just don't know about it." "Why not? You wouldn't have to n'ally stay here. It could be just a secret agreement between us. And you could come and see me whenever you liked." "It all seems so unreal," lie muttered. They lapsed into tliougiit, both avoiding looking at the other. There was no sound except a faint sighing of wind in the leaves of the well trimmed shrubbery. "Suppose," Mark said finally, "suppose other people started doing this thing? This coojjerative agreement? Lots of people must want to, just like we do." "I suppose so," she admitted. "I went through this once before," he wt'nt on absently. ".Mioiit ninety years ago I met this woman -- slie was awfully nice. Clever. Understood things. Not like you, of course, but still she was vi'r nice. I thought about it tlu'ii." "What happened to her?" Jennette asked numbly. "She died after a w'hile...She was pretty old. Oh, we didn't do anything," he hastened to add. "We kept it all on a jjcrfcctly moral and honest plane -- never s:nv each other e.xcept at authorized government sex parties, like this, and all. Fought whenever we r.ui across e.ieh other outside. But I remember thinking at the time that some sort of agreement would he nice. We got along awlully well. I could never understand vvliat she saw in me." "I can," Jennette whispered. "I'his i.s just the same, only a lot mure .so," Mark went on thoughtfully. "And it's wrong. You know it's wrong. Suppose a lot of people started it. Fir.st thing you know, whole groups of people would be cooperating with each other again. And when thev got intc) trouble outside, or planned an innocent little raid on somebody's shelter, they would all work together on it...And pretty soon, tlicrc would be other groups cooperating in fighting back again. Tliey'd have to. "And that, of course, would be the end of civilization, ftetty soon, there would be nothing left, and everybody would be dead." Jennette did not reply when he stopped. She turned her head away, but Mark could hear her uneven breathing. "We have a re.sponsibility toward society at large. We know it. We've been well educated and we aren't savages. Neither one of us can get away from it. It might be wonderful at first, but our conscience would come out sooner or later, and the whole thing would be ruined." She rubbed her face with her cupped hands, shaking her head. "I suppose -- " she murmured unhappily. "You'd hate yourself for it after a while," he said. For a few minutes, Jennette stared at the grass before her feet, pulling up little blades of it one by one. Then Mark stood up, and she flashed him a small, wistful, damp .smile. Together they walked back toward the elevator, stepping quietly and almost furtively on the soft ground. "If it weren't for that -- " he started. "I understand," she replied quickly. Taking hold of his arm, she said, "I'm sony." "Sure." Mark grinned affectionately at her. "Come on. Let's see if they've been having any good fights upstairs." They stepped into the elevator and disappeared. The artificial moon continued its regular motion through the simulated sky... A small machine that juarantees year round air and temperature conditioning at a cost competitive with coal, gas and oil may soon be standard equipment in all homes. This wcatherstat which works on the same heat-pump idea as your home freezer or refrigerator to give you freedom from furnace worries and dust, maintains constant humidity despite conditions out of doors. Gauze bandages on wounds will soon be a thing of the past. New transparent surgical dressings can be sprayed directly on the wound from an aerosol "bomb." The clear plastic bandage will enable surgeons to inspect a wound without removing it and will peel off easily. An electronic "brain" that scores students' tests at the rate of # a minute and saves teachers a lot of time has been invented. Installation takes about one year and equipment will soon be available throughout the nation. Headlights, ten times more powerful than those of today, will be used on automobiles in the year # and will eliminate blinding glare to approaching drivers. More light with less glare will be possible by the use of polarized lenses and windshields. In daytime driving the polarization can be cut out with a flick of the switch. Exhaust fumes from buses and cars may soon be given their "walking papers". Engineers have found that liquifled petroleum gas, such as propane, burns to an odorless, smokeless exhaust, yields quieter bus operation and cuts costs too. Contestants will be interested in the latest and most oomplote book for Unicorn and American Puzzlers. book beamed at the largest puzzle prizes in history. We are proud to have Mr. Winthrop on our writing staff. This big book contains vital informaRead the exclusive features listed below and see how this remarkable book will help you in your quest for First Prize. diate shipment. Order today before the first edition is sold out. Complete for #. three easy payments. Send only # with coupon below and # per month for two months thereafter. ferent category names for selecting your answer. ficult objects used in past puzzles, with their identifications. puzzles with identifications and answers. ent synonyms. methods of solving American TieBreakers to suit your own particular abilities. your competition the easy way. Less effort but better results. # Church St. New York #, N. Y. ifo Please send me Immediately I # with this coupon and prom ise to send #. per month for two  additional months. !  Check here to save # cents i shipping and postal charges j by enclosing full # with j coupon. j Uluslrated by Kelly Freas Eat your spinach, little man! It's good for you. Stuff yourself with it. Be a good little consumer, or the cops will get you... For such is the law of supply and demand! imp of panic tliat lived under the garish rug of this unfamiliar room and crawled out at dawn to nudge him awake and stare from the blank space to his left where been. His fists clenched in anger -- at himself. He'd never been the sort to make allowance for his own weakness and didn't propose to begin doing so now, at age cightv'crash well over a year ago and it was time he got used to his widowerhood and quit searching for her every morning. But even after he gave himself the bawling out, orientation came slowly. The surroundings looked so strange. No matter what he told himself it was hard to believe that he was indeed Fred Lubway, mechanical engineer, and had a right to be in this single bed, alone in seen. The right to be there was all wrong. He disliked the house and hated all its furni.shings. The cybernetic cooker in the kitchen; the magnetically-suspended divans in the living room ; the three-dimensional color broadcasts he could so readily project to any wall or ceiling; the solartropic machinery that would turn any face of the pentagonal house into the sun or the shade or the breeze: the lift that would raise the entire building a hundred feet into the air to give him a wider -iew and more privacy -- all left him dissatisfied. They were new. None had been only to the extent required by law to fulfill his duty as a consumer. "You must change your home because of the change in your family composition," the Ration Board's bright young female had neral. "Your present furnishings are obsolete. S'ou must rc)lace them." "And if I don't?" He'd been truculent. "I doubt we'd have to invoke the penalties for criminal underconsumption," she'd explaini'd airily. "There are plenty of other possible courses of action. Maybe w'e'd just get a decision that you're prematurely senile and unable to care for yourself. Then you'd go to a home for the aged where they'd help you consume -- with forced feedings and such." So here he was, in this homeof-bis-own riiat seemed to belong to someone else. Well, at least he wasn't senile, even if he did move a little slowly, now, getting out of bed. He'd warm up soon. All by himself. With no one's help. And as far as these newfangled gadgets in the bathroom were concerned, he could follow any wellwritten set of directions. He'd scalded himself that time only because the printed instructions were so confusing. He took a cold shower this time. When the airtowel had finished blowing and he was half dry -- not wholly dry because the machine wasn't adapted to people who took ice-cold showers -- he went in to the clothing maihinc. He punched the same few holes in its tape that he put there every day, stood in the right place, and in due course emerged with his long, rawboned frame covered by magenta tights having an excessively baggy seat. He knew the costume was neither pretty nor fashionable and that its design, having been wholly within his control when he punched the tape, revealed both his taste and his mood. He didn't care; there was no one in the world whom he wanted to impress. He looked in the dressing room mirror not to inspect the tights but to examine his face and see if it needed shaving. Too late he remembered that twenty years had elapsed since the permanent depilatories were first invented and ten since he'd used one and stopped having to shave. There were too many changes like that in this gadget-mad world ; too many new ways of doing old things. Life had no stability. He stalked into the kitchen wishing he could skip breakfast -- anger always unsettled his stomach. But everyone was required to eat at least three meals a day. The vast machine-records system that kept track of each person's consumption would reveal to the Ration Board any failure to use his share of food, so he dialed Breakfast Number Three -- tomato juice, toast, and coffee. The signal-panel flashed "Under-Eating" and he knew the state machine-records system had advised his cybernetic cooker to increase the amount of his consumption. Chin in hands he sat hopelessly at the kitchen table awaiting his meal, and in due course was served prunes, waffles, bacon, eggs, toast, and tea -- none of which he liked, c.xcept for toast. He ate dutifully nevertheless, telling himself he wasn't afraid of the ration-cops who were always suspecting him of underconsumption because he was the tall skinny type and never got fat like most people, but that he ate what the cooker had given him because his father had been unemployed for a long time during the depression seventy-five years before, so he'd never been able to bring himself to throw food away. Failure to consume had in the old days been called "overproduction" and by any name it was bad. So was war -- he'd read enough about w'ar to be glad that form of consumption had finally been abolished. Still it was a duty and not a pleasure to eat so much, and a relief to get up and put the dirty dishes into the dispo.sal machine and go up topside to his gyro. D isgustingly, he had a long wait before departure. After climbing into the g)'ro and transmitting his flight plan he had to sit seething for all of fifteen minutes before the Mount Diablo Flight Control Center deigned to lift his remote-controlled gyro into the air. And w'hen the signal came, ascent was so awkwardly abrupt it made his ears pop. He couldn't even complain. The Center was mechanical, and unequipped to hear complaints. It routed him straight down the San Joaquin Valley -- a beautiful sight from fifteen thousand feet, but over-familiar. He fell asleep and awakened only when unexpectedly brought down at Bakersfield Field. Above his instrument panel the printing-receiver said "Routine Check of Equipment and Documents. Not Over Five Minutes' Delay." But it could take longer. And tardiness was subject to official punishments as a form of unproductiveness. He called George Harding at the plant. Harding apparently had been expecting the call. His round blulf face wore a scowl of annoyance. "Don't you ever watch the newscasts?" he demanded angrily. "They began this 'Routine Check' you're in at five this morning, and were broadcasting pictures of the resulting traffic jam by six. If you'd filed a flight plan for Santa Barbara and come on down the coast you'd have avoided all this." "I'm not required to listen to newsca.sts," Fred replied tartly. "I own the requisite number of receivers and -- " "Now, listen, Fred," Harding interrupted. "We need you down here so hurry up!" Fred heard him switch of! and sat for a moment trembling with rage. But he ended by grinning wryly. Everyone was in the same boat, of course. For the most part, people avoided thinking about it. But he could now see himself as if from above, spending his life Hitting back and forth between home and plant, plant and home; wracking his brain to devise labor-saving machines while at the plant, then rushing home to struggle with the need to consume their tremendous output. Was he a man? Or was he a caged squirrel racing in an exercisc-whcel, running himself ragged and with great effort producing absolutely nothing? He wasn't going to do it any longer, by golly! He was going to -- "Good morning!" A chubby young man in die H-a-green uniform of a ration-cop ojrened the door and climbed uninvited into the cockpit. "May I ( beck the upto-dateness of your ship's eipiipment, please?" Fred didn't answer. He didn't have to. The young officer was already in the manual pilot's .seat, checking the secondary controls. In swift routine he tried motor and instruments, and took the craft briefly aloft. Down again, he demanded Fred's papers. The licenses that pertained to the gyro were in order, but there was trouble over Fred's personal documents: his ration-book contained far too few sales-validations. "You're not doing your share of consuming, Oldtimer," the young cop said mildly. "Look at all these unused food allotments! Want to cause a depression?" "No." "Man, if you don't eat more than this, we'll have mass starvation!" "I know the slogans." "Yes, but do you know the penalties? Forced feeding, compulsory consumption -- do you think they're fun?" "No." "Well, you can file your flight plan and go, but if you don't spend those tickets before their e.xpiration dates. Mister, you'll have cause to regret it." With a special pencil, he sensemarked the card's margins. Fred felt that each stroke of the pencil was a black mark against him. He watched in apprehensive silence. The young cop was also silent. When finished he wordlessly returned the identification, tipped his cap, and swaggered off, his thick neck red above his green collar. Fred found he'd had more than enough of swaggering young men with beefy red necks. That added to his disgust with the constant struggle to produce and consume, consume and produce. Vague, wishful threats froze as determination: he absolutely wasn't going through any more of it. He filed a flight plan tliat would return him to his home, and in due course arrived there. The phone rang in his ears as he of)cned the cockpit. He didn't want to answer, and he stayed on the roof securing the gyro and plugging in its battery-charger. But he couldn't ignore the bell's insistent clamor. When he went downstairs and switched on the phone, George Harding's round face splashed on the wall. "Fred," he said, "when we talked a few hours ago, you forgot to say you were sick. I phoned to confirm that for the Attendance Report. Did this call get you out of bed?" He could see it hadn't. Therefore Fred knew he must be recording the audio only, and not the video; trying to give him a break with the Attendance people and coach him on the most appeasing amwers. A well-meant gesture, but a false one. And Fred was fed up with the false. "I forgot nothing," he said bluntly. "I'm perfectly well and haven't been near Ix-d." "No'v, wait," George said hastily. "It's no crime to be sick. And -- ah -- don't say anything you wouldn't want preserved for po.sterity." "George, I'm not going to play along with you." Fred insisted. "This busine.#s of producing to consume and consuiTiing to produce has got me down. It's beyond all reason!" "No, it isn't. You're an excellent mechanical engineer, Fred, but you're not an economist. That's why you don't understand. Just excuse me for a minute, and I'll show you." He left the field of view. Fred waited incuriously for him to return, suddenly conscious of the fact that he now had nothing better to do with his time. George was back in less than a minute, anyhow. "O.K." he said briskly. "Now, where were we? Oh, yes. I just wanted to say that production is a form of consumption, too -- even the production of machine-tools and labor-saving devices. So there's nothing inconsistent -- " "What are you trying to do?" Fred demanded. Don't lecture me -- I know as much econ as you do!" "But you've got to come back to work, Fred! I want you to use your rations, put your shoulder to the wheel, and confonn generally. The policing's too strict for you to try anythina; else, fclla -- and I like you loo wi'll to want to sue you -- " "I don't need you to protucl me, George," Fred said stiffly. "I guess yc'u mean well enough. But goodhye." He switched off. Not a sound stirred the air in that lonely new house exaqjt the slight wheeze of his brcatliing. lie felt tired. Bone weary...s if all the fatigues of his eighty-six years were accumulalecl within him. He stood by a window and stared blindly out. Evei'yone seemed to have becai heckling him, .shoving him aiound, making him change all his w'ays every minute. He didn't want to change. lie didn't want to he forever adajting to new gadgets, new fads, new ways of cloing things. I'le thought of the village.s of India, substantially unchanged for thri'( four, five thousand years. The villagcr.s had no money, so they couldn't be consumers. Maybe they had the natural way to live. Statically...Also, frugally. But no. It was loo frugal, too slalii'. He'd Iieaid and read too much about the siaivation, jiestilencc, peonage and other ills plaguing tho.se Indian villagcr.s. 'I'hey didn't have life licked, eiiht'i'. The Indians had not enough, die Americans, too much. One was as fiad as the other. And lie was in the middle. He leil the v'indow he'd lieen .staring from unsceingly and walked to the foyer eoiilrol-panel. Tiiere he pushed the button that would cause the liousc to rear a hundred feet into the air on its titaniumaluminum plunger. d'hen lie went hack to the winclow to w.ilcli the ground recede. He felt a hand on his shoulder. He decided the sens.uion ,l an illuA young man's oice said, "Mr. Lubway, we need you." so Fred turned, reads to smile. Hr didn't smile, He was eontronled by anuiher ration-cop. dark and hefty. He seemed very kindly, in hi.s olhcial sort of w'.iy. 'Mr, George Harding sent me," he exjilained. "He asketl us to look you uj ami see if we could help." "Yes:' " "You seem to havibeen a little well -- staring out that window while your house rises dangi'i'misly high. Mr. Geoige Harding didn't like the mood you're in, and neither rio I, Mr. laihway. I'm afraid you'll have to come to the linspilal. We can't liavi' a valu.ihle citizen like you falling out that window, e.in we? ' "What do you mean, 'valuable citizen'? I'm no use to anybody. There's ilenty of engineers, and more being graduated every semester. 'i'uu don't need me." "Gh, yes, we do! " Shaking his head, the young raiioii-eop took a firm gri) on Fred's right biceps. "You've got to come .ilong with me till vour outlook elianges. Mr Luhw Liv." "Now. see here!" Fred olijerted, trying unsuccesslully to iwisl lier of the ofileer's grip. "'ou'vc no (Continued on piifit: #) The Work-out Planet Colonial life on Mars with a "chicken" like Shirley was enough to make any Earthman shudder. But what can you do when you are mentally incompetent and legally trapped? I was in our study-lab working on my home cyclotron. The cyclotron was so new that Nora hadn't paid for it yet, but at least the solution to my troubles was at hand. Now I could finish my einsteins. That year I had been unable to find work for more than six weeks -- all because I hadn't finished my einsteins. Most people these days finish them by the age of twentyone or two, but I was thirty-two and beginning to worry. So was Nora. It was more than a little embarra.ssing that the greatest female scientific theorist in New York City had a husband with a low IQ. So after having held my last job for only two days -- a job which was hardly more than an office boy's -- I had gone out and bought the home cyclotron. I thoroughly intended to put an end to this nonsense about my being an intellectual lightweight. I had taken a vow not to leave home until I had finished my einsteins and though Nora lifted her brows at the cost of the machine, she had said nothing. Perhaps because she was too wrapped up in her work on the "Mathematical Point-Count of the Surfaces of Great Paintings." "Doesn't anyone answer doorbells on earth, Mr. Singer?" I turned in surprise to sec a young woman standing in the door. Then iny heart sank. It was Nora's cousin from Mars, Shirley Remington. She looked very odd indeed. She wore a light wool dress that outlined her body instead of a leisure-work smock or the standard female coveralls. Her hair was too long and waved, a mass of bronze, making her head look heavy to me brcau!C the female hutch haircut haiirt changed in fifty years. She wore archaic lipstick on her mouth and her eyebrows were neat and plucked which stamped her as a Colonial. I had seen pictures of her when Nora's uncle Remington had vi'ited F.arth alxut three years before. At that time he had the crazy idi-a that she should come to Earth to find a husband, since men were so short in the colonies, but we'd talk'd hitn out of it then. "Hello," I said, trying to bide my shock at her ugliness. "What brings you all the way from Mars?" "Didn't Nora tell you I was coming?" she asked in surprise. "No." I said. Her face showed no signs of work at all; no lines on her skin, no red veins in the eves. A smooth, shiny complexion like the ugly, unmarked jx'tal of a garden lose. She even bad a tan from being outdoors and not working very hard. "Quite frankly." she said, "I've come to New York to find a suitable and pleasing mate. We've had the usual cosmic ray storms on Mars and the male situation is fantastic. So when Nora said for me to come on ahc.id and m i' what I could do in New York, I came flying -- or rather rocketing." That struck me as queer. Of course Nora would be mildly interested in the marital success of her cousin, but Nora has very little time for such fixilishiu'ss and trying to introduce this ugly girl (nvioii hose!) around in New S'ork would be a 'hecr waste of effort. "Excuse me for sounding doubtful, Mis Remington." I said, "but you don't have a line on your face. Your figure is too youthful. It's too curvy to be frank with you. No man on Earth would look at you twice." "I realir.e my shortcomings," she said with an undisturbed grin. "But Cousin Nora is a very smart person and she told me to come. I'm leaving the answers to her." Disgusted that I had to inteiTupt my work, I led the girl to the spare room. There was the smell of Howers about her, some artificial concoction she called "perfume" and a long way from the socially acceptable aroma of perspiration that every attractive young Earth girl favors. I accidentally touched her while picking up her luggage and shuddered at her softness. N ora was in her lab behind the garage. Dr. Ryder was there also. I knew they were very busy, working on Nora's demonstration to le given tliat evening before the Society of Electrostatic Engineers. But I couldn't help puzzling over Nora's intentions. Certainly she knew that my work on the einsteins liad to be gotten through with at all possible speed and she couldn't expect me to jockey her unattractive cousin around the city on a fruitless hunt for a man. Dr. Ryder was in the harness that Nora had designed. It was a very clever contraption, destined to open a whole new field of leisure-work. Nora had an original Rembrandt on the scanning surface and her computer was scanning the work of the old master carefully, reading each and every brush stroke he had made. She had a photospectrometer set up alongside -- one of those devices which can distinguish over paint was mixed to the proper shade by automatic devices. The artist -- in this case Dr. Ryder -- was .standing Ix'fore a canvas witli his arms locked in a sort of harness. As the scanner read out each brush stroke Rembrandt had made on that original painting centuries ago, the harness duplicated the stroke in terms of motion on Ryder's arms, controlled by an analog servomechanism loop. Ryder was painting a Rembrandt which, when finished, would be indistinguishable from the original except for age effects. No value in duplicating Rembrandt, of course. The value was in training the artist's muscles. After Ryder had painted Rembrandt and Van Gogh and a half-dozen other great artists for hour after hour, he would have some concept of how the masters worked. In si.x months he would know more about painting teclmiques than a man could learn in ten years under the old system. This exciting technique, designed for leisure work, was just another Remington Singer's Art-Aid, she called it. "I thought I told you we were busy," said Nora. Nora turned off the Thompson Probe and Ryder slipped out of the harness with a sigh, exercising his tired anns. "Your cousin from Mars is here," I said. "I deem that important enough to interrupt you. Especially when she tells me you encouraged her to come to Earth on a fool's errand." Nora looked at Bob Ryder and he looked at her. I didn't like that look. "I think she's very wise to come to earth to find a man," said Nora. "Her looks are all against her." Nora is consciou.s of licr own great beauty. She's lived a full life. I'liough only three years older than #, she looks fifty. The hard lines of her face, the deep pouches undi'r her eyes, and the bent posture of her body give her a great animal attraction. I have seen men stop in sheer astonishment at her admirable work-worn figure. "Standards of beauty are different on Mars," said Nora. "If she's brought money, she has a chance," said Bob. "And I suppose I'm the one to take her around am! intiotluee her -- " Nora laughed. "Now. Hal. don't get excited. You arc out of a job -- " "I'm working hard on my einstelns -- " "And you conijrletcly ruined my digital read-outs on the 'Mathematical Point-Count System' last week, and so I'd think you could make yourself useful to someune in my family." "For years," I said angrily, "you've complained because you've practically supported me. Now with the new home cyclotron I can get my eiiisteins done and maybe find a decent job. That's all I'm tiying to do and cacli day'i delay means another day that I'm a stone around your neck." "Oh, now, Hal, you mustn't feel that way." "Having a low IQ is no crime," smiled Bob Ryder. "'h, if I had a # I'd be proud. At least it sets you apart in a city where the dull normal is #." "The Thompson Probe gives me headaches and so I work slower. Mr. Scientist," I said. "Someday I may surprise yon all." "Someday," said Nora with a sigh, "yon may even be smart enough to figure out how to distingui.sh molecules of dust from jaiiit molecules on iny Mathematical Point-Count System of Art. That's more than I can do. But meanwhile Shirley is here and she's brought quite a large sum of money with hei which has to he taken care of and you can make yourself useful by taking her to Mr. DuPres." I felt a wave of relief. Smart Nora! Mr. DuPres was our lawyer and the logical man to handle Shirley's jn'ohlem...s a member (jf one of the profesions he was in the bottom quarter of society, for on F.arth the tcclinical skills predominate. Therefore he would be ukid to handle .Shirley ftsr a fee...And being acquainted with lawyers, teachers, divines, doctors and other rilTraff, he could jrolrtibly find somebody for Sbirley, someone of low taste who would accept the Martian idea of beauty. "That's diH'crent." I said. "Well, be off with her!" cried Nora with entlursiastn. "And Lifter the lawyer's show her some of New York, if you wain. I'll not be lionnfor supper anyway, since Bob and I have to leave early for the demonstration." My relief ihatiged to anxiety. Nora was too cheerful about the whole thing. "DuPres may rn.it be at his office. It's Saturday al lernni m." "DuPres will be at his office," said Bob. "I don't know of a lowly professional in New York who can make a living on a five day workweek." "I'll call just to make sure," said Nora. "I wanted to talk to him anyway." I left them. I paused to make the complicated signal that brought the car out of the garage automatically, and I thought I heard a burst of laughter from the lab. My uneasiness grew. I'm not a jealous man, but Nora and Bob make a fine couple, he with his white hair and lined face and Nora with her workseared body. And when they get together they seem to talk down to me like a couple of parents to a simpleminded child. It would be well for me to get my einsteins done as soon as possible. A S WE drove downtown I had to explain to Shirley about our work-week. No one considers their job as important as their leisurework any more. In fact, employers have been trying to push through the # day workweek. I had to explain that to Shirley, because on Mars the employers want to get the most out of their workers and the workers want to give as little as possible. "It's simple," I said. "On Earth, leisure-work and hobbies increa.se the efficiency of the person. Take a man on a straight office job. In the office he may be merely shuffling papers around. But in his leisure-work he may bo doing garden chemistry or a study of the molecular structure of plastics. His leisure-work is so difficult that ordinary oflfice work becomes very easy for him and he can do twice as much in half the time -- because his leisure-work teaches him to think. Today work is the chief pleasure of mankind. At his office. Around the home. And in the allimportant leisure-work that used to be called hobbies." "All because of the Thompson Probe?" "All because of the Thompson Probe. It has made the final revolution in mankind -- the greatest since the Industrial Revolution. For centuries mankind complained that the layman could never catch up with science. Today all is changed. By the time he's reached his majority the average man (or woman) has become the equivalent of a graduate physics major in the old days. Science has a pretty hard time keeping up with us today," I said proudlyWe went past a large building that hummed with activity. "What's that?" she asked pointing. I laughed. "The public library." "The library! It looks like a mob scene. Why, back home on Mars you'd see a crowd like that in front of the theatre but there's never a crowd at the library." "They keep the libraries open all night long," I said. "They have had to cut book loan time to one week so that everybody will have a chance at them. Study is an imptortant part of leisure-work, especially the classics and heavy scientific literature. A book can't be a bestseller any more unless it's pretty meaty on science." A traffic policeman had his head bent over an experiment he was doing with a vacuum jar, and so I scooted across on a changing light and ended up in a mob that overflowed the sidewalk. "What's tliat crowd for?" I shot a sidelong glance at the girl and felt a tingle of pleasure. Living with a scientist of Nora's mentality, I am usually the one to ask Cjuestinns. Despite the girl's naivete, she really wanted to know, and I didn't give her the look of impatience that Nora and her friends are always giving me when I ask questions. "This is a w'ork-out," I said, stopping our vehicle. "Leisure-work has its bad features. But we can expect this, the old principle of loss and gain, you know. For every advantage there is a disadvantage. To the truly ohjectise mind, there is no purpose in hiding the bad features of our lives." The man was doing his last workout. For thirty or more years he had been using a Thoinjjson Probe. He had worked hard for each # hours out of # under the Probe, every day of his life. The energy released by that machine had finally set its pattern on his ntTve cells. The day finally came when he turned olT his Probe -- but couldn't stop working. He had to keep going, burning him.self out. He had been digging a patch of ground with a pick. The pick pounded the dirt with sludding blows and at each stroke the man gave a half-ciy of anguish because the rest of his body was tired abnormally tired after the years of ceaseless actis ity. The crowd about him was patient, grim-faced and respectful. Since no one has tune any more for funerals, it is social custom to attend any work-out you see and pay homage to the dying with applause. The man raised his pick, gave a shriek and dropped to his knees as his heart e.xploded inside of him. He made some futile, erratic gestures, patting the ground and crawling loi a moment in a spasmodic fashion, then he shoved his face into the dirt, quivered, and lay still. The crowd applauded sombrely for his soul and then lieuan to melt as a woman came out of the house with a home emlialming kit and began to arrange his limbs... me again of her repugnantly soft body. "Do people just die like that?" "He led a hajrpy, full life," I said. "He was probably fifty-two, three. No one lives any longer any more. Last year a man of fifty-eight w'as discovered and he caused a sensation. But in terms of work we accomplish four, five times as much as our ancestors who lived to be sLxty-.seventy. And we're not as neurotic." She sighed. "Doesn't anybody have fun on Earth?" "What kind of fun?" "Oh, you know. Parties, and the beach and going to bars. Eating fine dinners and going to concerts and shows." I was in a hurry to get rid of her, but I couldn't pass that remark up. Chuckling, I swung a couple of blocks out of the way to show her the largest movie theatie in New Yoik. It's hidden beivseen the #story All-Centuries Art Museum and one of the hundreds of buildings of the enlarged New York University. It has one hundred seats. "Martin and Lewis," she said in surprise. I smiled proudly. "We don't make fictional movies any more," I said. "Not since the Thompson Probe. This film is over two hundred years old and the only people who come to see it are the very young children and ofT-planet visitors." "But I saw a TV set in your living room." "Sure. Most of the programs are put on by the universities and the scientific institutes. Last year the convention of the Institute of Applied Science had an all-time record were some really fine papers -- " "On Mars people watch baseball," die said frowning. "Don't you even have that?" "Baseball? Sounds familiar," I said. "Wasn't that the game they played on ice with skates and sticks?" She made a sound of protest in her throat. Suddenly she put her hand on my arm. "Stop! There's a bar. My God, I could stand a drink -- " I Slopped reluctantly. I hadn't been in a bar since I met Nora. Drinking fuddles the mind and prevents clear thinking necessary to work. There aren't very many bars, and they're mostly attended by antiquarians. This one was dimly lighted in the true tradition, repulsively inefficient. Shirley was sighing for the nostalgic New York of magnificent bars and restaurants she'd read about in history books. She fell to talking to the bartender who was a hoarse-voiced old baboon of an Irishman, who obviously drank his own wares. "Look what this dag-nabbed Thompson Probe has went and did," he said. "It's went and eliminated sex." He leaned over the bar and winked at Shirley and pinched her .soft arm. "Take you now, Ma'm. In the old days you would've been a knockout." "How did they went and eliminate .sex?" asked Shirley, innocently cuddling forward on the ancient bar stool. "Like Freud went and said," said the bar-keep. "You take a baby, well, that little child is curious about hissclf. Right?" "Right?" asked Shirley of me, sipping her drink. "Right," I said glumly. I was thinking back to the day I met Nora. She was doing a study on "Stimulants and the Creative Mind." In those days ten years ago she was merely a bright student and I was a thorough-going antiquarian. I spent a lot of time in the bars. I had a chip on my shoulder against the world. The Thompson Probe that everybody used gave me a headache and I was way behind my friends in achievement. I was probably headed for a Clinic, but Nora saved me. She was always one to improve the world. Maybe she thought .she could remake me. Anyway, she tried hard for ten years... "That baby is curious about his body," said the bartender. "Then about his mother's body and finally about others. So he goes and grows up and this curiosity went and got sublimated." "At Sublimation Junction," I said remembering an old tune and letting the bubbles from the drink ping at my nose. "You know a big joke?" said the bartender. "You take an adult, a scientist. You take a big-dome, like Dr. Deveriiig oieven this Nora Remington Singer dame tliese giant brain tyires. all they're doing is being sublimated. Scientific curiosity is just a final result of the same old curiosity the kid had in his cradle. So what do they mean, giving papers on how to count up the #aint dots on some picture, painted by some old-timer?" Shirley grinned at me. "So what do they mean, Hal? These Nora Remington types?" "The Thompson Prove allows total sublimation," I said del'eieively. "Freud pointed out the los and gain factor in sublimation. Without sublimation, civilization couldn't exist. Of course, the primitive instincts continue to exist. Except that now the sex-drive is mostly swallowed in the curiosity sublimation. That's why a body that shows the effect of work is attractive, and a smooth, unmarked one like yours isn't." "You're mighty ugly, sister," said the bar-keep, chucking Shirk'v under the chin. "You're prettv ugh xoiuelf. Grandpa," said Shirley. She sighed and took my arm. "Come on, Hal, let's go." For a minute in the dim light she looked pretty good, and I thought that maybe she had a ch.ince, hut when we came out into the sun again, the clean, wind-blown look spoiled it. "What about marriage and children," she said. "Gosh, I hope the Earth men still believe in children." "Of course we do," I said. "But the begetting is unimportant. It is simply inefficient to make such a fuss over mating as our ancestors did. Think of the total loss in terms of wasted work lujurs. Tndav those hours aie moie re.oonahhpi nt in either job work or ieisure-worl; or in a dreamless sk e)." "No dreams. Hal?" "No. Afii-r j tlay undeithe Thompson Picihe, you sleej like a stone." She looked disturljed. "I see it." she said. "A New 'ork .is neat :is a pin, efficient and happy. But I still don't sec why -- why do you revel in work?" "Read history," I said. "There was a lime cvhen our technology exceeded the knowledge of the man on the street. Finally, beginning with the atom, it got so b.id th.it the average man no longei tiusted himself to make decisions in hi.s own em ironment. He had a tli siie to know as much as the scientist himself knew. So science gave him the Thompson Probe." She wrinkled her nose and showed her provincial prejudices. "Probe-smobc. I'm glad the Probe is outlawed on Mats." "When .Mars h.o enough books, labs and libraries they'll cotne to use the Probe," I said. He was shuffling some p.ipers on his desk and he looked ery grave. For tlie hundredth time that day I had a feeling of misgis iiig. I didn't like tlie legal looking documents lie had in front of him. "I'm afraid I hae 'ome bad news for you, Mr. Singer," he said. I waved a hesitant Shirley into the chair. After all, she was one of the family. "Go ahead, DuPres." He had a cringing look on his face. He handed me a paper. It was a divorce notice. It said that, due to my failure to support her, Nora Remington Singer, plaintiff, had decided to terminate our marriage and that she wished to collect fifteen thousand dollars from me which was the basic amount I should've brought home to support us in the ten years of our marriage. Fifteen hundred a year isn't very much but the law set the base very low and then insisted on it. In a world of work, of course, non-support is an ugly word, and I felt a cold clutch of horror. "Nora wanted me to break the word to you," said DuPres. "She just called me a few minutes ago." "I'll fight it!" "You can't," he said. "The evidence is all here. Affidavits from her friends telling of her mental distress at having a stupid husband. Why, it isn't even a case for a human judge. I'm putting the evidence into the Computer Court at nine Monday. By ten-thirty she'll have her final decree." "I'll cross-file!" I cried. "The machines would throw out your case as soon as it scanned your salary reports. No, your marriage is dead. The important question now is -- how can you raise the fifteen thousand dollars you owe Nora." "It's Ryder," I fumed. "He's a high-erg man. That's all she wants. A goddam high-erg man." "The court will most certainly demand fifteen thousand dollars of non-support money for Nora," said DuPres insistently. "Have you any ideas, Mr. Singer?" "I can lend you fifteen thousand dollars," said Shirley impulsively. "Don't be ridiculous," I said. "I don't think she's ridiculous." said DuPres. "Why don't you borrow the money from her?" "I couldn't pay it back. I can hardly support myself on Earth." "On Mars it would lu' different," said Shirley. "If you decided to come to Mars, you could get a fine job..." "No. I don't want to go to Mars. Besides, you've brought your money as a dowry, in hopes of finding a young man." DuPres cleared his throat. ".s a matter of fact," he said, "I believe my client, Nora, had something like this in mind. She mentioned to me something about your coming to Earth to find a husband. And she mentioned the money you had. And Mr. Singer will be free of all marital engagements, effective at ten o'clock Monday mornmg. We both stared at him in amazement. Shirley blushed. Nora had fit the pieces together in a very efficient, non-emotional way. DuPres now brought out anotlier piece of papi'r. "This marriage license is properly filled out," he said, "and needs only the signatures. I have a friend, a parson, whose offices are in the next building. We could wrap this whole thing up in a matter of minutes." He smiled benignly as if he had just put over a big deal. "You forgot one thing," I said. "Oh, don't worry about the license," said DuPres. "It's dated for Monday. The law will recognize the principle of convenience of ceremony, regardless of the stream of time." I stepped up and let him have one on the jaw. He went over backwards in his swivel chair. "My compliments," I said, "and you forgot that people have feelings." Shirley and I stood on the sidewalk outside. "Sure you won't borrow?" she asked. "No. I'm not through with Nora yet." I made a signal for the car and it came gliding up. I got in the car and she squeezed my arm. "Take care of your good right arm. The way you hit that man was the finest thing I've seen on Earth." "Aren't you going back?" I asked. "No," she smiled. "I've got a date with an old-fashioned bartender and a bottle of liquor." I watched her go, head back, her ugly, over-womanly body swinging in a hippy walk. Let science pile invention on invention, I thought, there is always the eartliy primitive oriented to breeding. I was half-way home when a It was so good that I cried out in amazement. There was still a way to prove myself to Nora, better than finishing my einsteins or better than cornering her with an emotional appeal. She hated the waste energy of an emotional appeal anyway. Nora was stumped on how to distinguish the dust molecules from paint molecules on her Mathematical Point-Count System. "Hal," I told myself, "Hal you've never done well under the Thomjjson Probe. But now, son, you've got to come up with it.' You've got to show them this time, or else -- " voted to the Probe because of the marvelous things it's done for humanity. Actually it always looked to me like no more than a paint spray gun, and it worked as simply. The Thompson Probe is a practical solution of man's oldest wi.sh -- to make available to himself the enormous mental energy he knows lies sleeping below the surface of every human mind. It emits nonthermal radiation which is played on the head and shoulders. This radiation is on the wave scale somewhere between visible light and ultra-violet. Thomp.son's spectrum, if you prefer, in which visible light is beginning to turn into something else before it becomes ultra-violet. It is very unstable, but it will radiate up to several hundred feet and for x number of hours before it loses shape and falls back into light rays or gains pulsations and moves up to ultra-violet. (Is there anyone who hasn't experienced the foolish feeling of being in the middle of serious work and having the commutator in the Probe fail? Then your desire for work drains out of you and you're staring fooli.shly at a beam of useless light. Or, on the other hand, your commutator goes wild and burns the hell out of you -- you get a sunburn strong enough to send you to bed for days.) But when the Probe works properly it literally forces increased activity in the atoms of the brain. Perhaps the molecules creak and snap a bit, perhaps that's why we don't live as long -- but to feel the pure energy of your full mind released for work -- Ah, that is life's greatest pleasure! I took out the set bar and moved up the generator. I moved it way up. The Probe is theoretically safe to handle the high metabolism rates of the very quickminded, but any child can kick off the governor. No one in our intelligent world does, of course. But this was emergency. I set up the power level as high as it would go, way beyond the last safety factor, even for the highest metabolic genius. I felt some misgivings, but I had gotten myself into an all-ornothing situation, and I restrained an impulse to fudge a little. I rushed in and got Nora's papers on the dot count of the surface of pictures. She had all of her papers out, because, she had told me, she had been asked to donate them to tlic Museum. Now I knew better. She was simply breaking up housekeeping. I went to the study and turned on the Probe and stepped into its rays. By midnight when Nora and Bob got home from the meeting they were going to find a little surprise waiting for them. I'm used to standard Probe effects as is everyone on earth. But the blue-white jolt I got dazed me, even while I felt my mind turn over and the racing energy come with a Jolt. I yapped and yammered like a lap dog because I was so jagged up. The thoughts cascaded in my mind and the headache-producing equations seemed to draw up on the paper and resolve themselves into marks as simple as "if I have four apples -- " Experiments were called for. All of the stuff was within the ray's beams, and I set up and activated a dozen different experiments at once. My hands flew as fast as my mind. I could feel my mind racing past the first fatigue and slipping down into a vast void of concentration. I worked like a very demon and muttered and laughed and quivered all over from the unaccustomed heavy charge of the Thompson Probe. I got some of the feeling a workout must have. The human mindbody stretched to the very limit of endurance. The nausea of fatigue grew like a round, black balloon. Yet I drove myself forward, lights blurred in my eyes and I was blinded and yet I could still work and I worked -- N ora and Bob discovered me around midnight when they got home. I was lying twitching on the desk while my experiments rattled on unheeded and the paper tapes I had fed into the machine went on rattling out long equations. I had received an overload of energy and run into a sort of human short-circuit, being too young for a real work-out to death. But not, I thought with pleasure, before I had done some considerably good work. The last thing I remembered was when they put me to bed. We are all doctors because everything short of surgery is fairly easy for an alert mind to pick up. When I awoke about noon on Sunday, I instantly knew that it was going to take me a long time to recover from niy efforts. Nevertheless, I was content. I crept downstairs in anticipation. I found Shirley in the living room assembling her luggage. She looked very white and used up. "Try to find a hangover remedy in this lousy city," she moaned. "I'm glad I can still make the two o'clock rocket." "Leaving?" "I've gotten everything I wanted out of my trip. So I leave." "How was last night?" "We got drunk and sang old songs," she said, "and I flirted with an antiquarian." "Wherc'rc Nora and Bob?" Shirley shook her head. "I don't know. But there's a note on the breakfast table." I crept into the breakfast room. Nora's note was to the point: Dear Hal: A noble try. In all your years you've never done such your usual unobservant fashion you picked the wrong set of equa lions. You solved a problem I worked on years ago which has to do with paint coatings on buildings and the weathering effects. If you had the intelligence to have read rny books, you'd have known. P.S. Shirley has given me the non-support money. I think she was drunk. She murmured .something about buying a man with a good right arm.  hope you'll be very happy together. P.P.S. You're wrong about Bob and me. I've always envied Bob his freedom of living alone. I'm going to be a bachelor too. You can get more ivork done. Goodbye -- Nora Remington. I dragged myself into the living room w'herc Shirley had just finished calling for a cab. "You gave Nora the money," I accu.sed her. "I sav('d enough for your ticket to Mars," she said. "I'm not going to Mars." She grinned and waved a paper at me. "This says you have to. Old DuPres came In this morning and drew it up. You owe me fifteen thousand. I can offer you a job from which you can pay it back. The law says you either have to have your own job or take the job I offer or go to a readjustment Clinic for mental incompetence. And I don't think you can find a job here very easily, nor allow yourself to be sent to a Clinic." I groaned. "I won't be bought like a side of beef!" "Now, Hal, what a thing to say! Your bags are packed, thanks to Nora. Do you want to come quietly or shall I send for the police?" What could I do? I was legally trapped and physically weak. rocket was an antiquarian. Each day Shirley brought me to the Solarium to enjoy the sun and left me neatly tucked in under the blankets. Each time this fellow would stare at her and then at me and then dig into the books and magazines he carried. Finally he spoke. (Continued on page # Illustrated by Paul Orban Once upon a time life was perfection. Government made sure its citizens were supplied with every comfort and pleasure. But sometimes perfection breeds boredom and... his pace so his forelock would he corrected himself. But he had quit bobbing. The damn thing never heard of a petition for a wasn't supposed to bob; it was DP being refused, supposed to be a sort of peaked He wanted to spend his last crest above rugged, handsome feanight in the city over here in the turcs -- a dark lock brushed caremain park of C Sector, walking in lessly aside by a man who had the restless crowds, trying to settle more important things to do than his thoughts. He moved through fuss with personal grooming. But slow aimless eddies of brightly apno matter how carefully he combed pareled citizens, avoiding other it and applied lusto-.set, it always pedestrians, skaters and the heavy, bobbed if he walked too fast. four-wheeled autoscooters. EveryBut then, why should it matter thing was dully, uncompromisingnow? He wasn't looking for a ly the same as in his own sector, woman tonight. Not when his apeven to the size and spacing of the poiniment with the Social Adjusthuge, spreading trees. He had ment counsellors was tomorrow hoped, without conviction, that morning, and he would get a Dethere might be some tiny, refreshinp clifTercncc -- anything: but the inincl-sappinp sameness that had driven him to the petition. Allen was careful not to brush against any girl with an escort. Since he wasn't on the make, what would be the use of fighting? Kind of an odd feeling, though, to know you'd never date or fight again, or... Or what? What else was there to do, if you hadn't the luck to be a jobinan or a tech? You ate, and slept, and preened, and e.xercised, and found what pleasure you could, and fought mostly because it was niomentarilv stimulating. and. eventually, after a hundred and fifty years or so, you died. Unless you were a tedi. If you were a tech. Government gave you stuff to keep you alive longer. A jobman got a somewhat different deal -- he got nothing to keep him alive abnormally, because ninety percent of Karth's population was waiting for his job anyway. Allen skirled a huge fountain throwing colored, scintillant spray high into the dark summer sky, stealing a glance backward over his shoulder. That girl was still behind him. Following him? It wouldn't be anything new. in his case -- especially in his own sector -- but maybe she just happened to be going his way. It would be easy to find out. He circled tlie fountain twice. With her looks she should have been picked up before she'd left her compartment building block -- except that whoever got her might have to fight more than once during the evening to hold her. Definitely a young mati's darling. And, the way it began to look, definitely Allen's darling. On the second trip around, she had backtracked to meet him face to face -- her purpose obvious. He tried to dodge, but there was no way it could be done without insult. Damn... "Hi, brute. Nedda Marsh. Alone?" She ran soft hands along the hard biceps under his short jacket sleeves. The motion threw open her shriekingly bright orange cloak, displaying saucy breasts, creamy abdomen and, beneath her brief jeweled skirt, long smooth thighs. And the perfume assailed his nostrils with almost physical force. "Hi, Nedda. Allen Kinderwood. Alone, natch." Natch, hell. But what could any male do to combat Government perfume? He smiled, his pulse suddenly quickening. "Date, darling?" She was a beautiful thing. Her large, sparkling eyes showed pleasure. "Take me, Al." She touched vivid red lips lightly again.st his. And the formula was complete. Private citizens Allen Kinderwood and Nedda Marsh were dated at least until dawn -- or a better man did them part. He scueezed her arm where she'd snuggled it against his side, starting with her away from the fountain. "How come the most gorgeous thing in Kansas City wasn't dated earlier?" She looked up at him, and the passion in her gaze made his heart skip like a teener's. "Could be I'm very particular, darling, but," her look was suddenly beseeching, "the truth is. I'm protected." A slow, tiny fire of distaste fanned itself alive in Allen's brain. Why in the name of World Government did every other girl who made first play with him have to be protected? But there was his out. By unwritten social code he could declare the date off. Except that he had grown to increasingly hate the spiteful practice of 'protection'. It meant Nedda had peeved some local lothario who, along with other males in his clique, was going to damn well see she wasn't intimate with anyone else until she begged another date with the original one. If you had a sadistic turn of mind, it meant you could keep a delectable bit in freeze until her natural inclinations forced her into your arms. But you'd have to fight any man who tried to date her in the meantime. Fighting was legal, of course, as long as the loser was surgically repairable, and it was considered a normal catharsis for strained relationships between males. Not, Allen thought glumly, that he had any stake in the future of frantically weary society, but he had reached the conclusion long ago that a man without the courage to back up his personal convictions wasn't worth the energy it took to down him. He stopped and held Nedda against him protectively. "I still want the date, sprite," he said. "I have to leave early tomorrow, but ni try to get you out of protection -- okay?" Her lips trembled. "Oh, yes. If you knew how it's been, these last few days -- " He shook her again, but more tenderly. "Deal. We'll try to reach your compartment." Living quarters were a sanctuary no one but a medic could legally enter without invitation. He removed his stainless indentiheation plaque and slipped its chain about her throat. "If you see any of the guys who're watching for you, tell me but don't look at them." He took her arm again and alertly began to work through the throng. "Describe your protector." "Jeff Neal-Haync. He's big, Al. Bigger than you. Heavier, but you've got muscles like he never saw. You look faster, too." Allen didn't know him, but the name was revealing. Not that anything but your Earth society number was official, but use of a double surname meant your father had elected to stay with your mother for at least a while after you were bom. Most babies, of course, were immediately turned over to a Government creche, but it had always seemed to Allen that kids raised by one or more parents had other advantages too, although he had never been able to figure out just what they were. Maybe it was only his imagination. A t the edge of the park they  chose the nearest double scooter which showed full battery charge. Allen leaned against the forward rail. "Herd it, will you, NedD P da? Every time I think of the hundreds of hours I've spent plowing air with one of these gutweighted things I want to break one. Hell, I can run faster. Anyway, you know where we're going." The girl smiled, pushed the power lever into forward range and steered into slow-moving traffic. "I saw a man lift a single, once, but that's all he was able to do with it." The lighted street seemed intensely bright after the dimmer reaches of the park. "Ever think of running one into the river?" She looked at him in amazement. "Fright, no. Why -- you'd have to drive along a pedestrian path for at least a block to reach the bank!" Ncdda spun the steering wheel to avoid a long string of solemn teeners playing follow the leader on singles. "You have funny thoughts, Al." "I'm laughing." He flexed his muscles, impatient, as usual, with another citizen's sluggish mentation. "I suppose the damn music never gets on your nerves, either?" "Music? Oh -- the music." She listened as though for the first time to the muted strains which played continuously throughout the city -- calming, soothing, lulling. "Of course not. Why should it?" "They've got it synchronized," said Allen. "Govcmineut's got it synchronized so you hear it just the same volume no matter where you are outside. You have to listen to it." "Darling, ycjur boredom's showmg. He squeezed her hand reassuringly. "Don't let me spin you, lovely. I've got the answer." "Oh?" "Yeah. I applied for a DP this morning." "Al -- no.'" "Why not?" He put it like the noodle thrust of a fighting knife, daring her to finda reason, half hoping she could. "I -- " She glanced at him once, quickly, then away. Then she drew a deep breath and let it sigh out. "How about Mars, Al? There aren't many service machines, and they even let women do lots of little detailed things. I almost went, once." He was watching her shrewdly. "Why didn't you?" He had fought this one out with himself before. "Oh -- I don't know, fust never did." "I'll tell you why you really didn't. It'd be too different. When the Government provides every convenience, every comfort you can think of here, you can't stand having to work in a mine, with an oxygen helmet, stuffed into heavy clothes. You can't stand the danger and the fear -- and somehow, inside, you must know it. I'm pretty strong, and I never met a man I was afraid of, but I know I couldn't stand Mars." He gripped the rail and stared out over the wide, swarming street. "But Earth is a trap, Nedda. A big, comfortable trap where you walk around endlessly without being any use at all." She trod the brake and barely missed bumping a couide who had stopped to embrace. "I'm some use, hon. Wait'll we get home." Her eyes held a promise she could barely restrain. Automatically, he caressed her with a practiced hand -- and grabbed the wheel when she suddenly strained against him, trembling, pressing eager lips against his neck. Christ, how long had she been protected? He felt a mounting anger against the social ennui which drove men's minds to such inhuman activity. Departure was the only escape from this kind of thing, and from the city -- from any city. But the Departees had always been only a tiny minority. Did that mean they -- and he -- were wrong? He brooded about it for seemingly the googolth time, guiding the scooter without conscious thought, turning as Nedda directed. A trap, he'd told her. Well, he could .see no reason to change that. The blazingly glorious sensotheaters, cafes, gymnasiums, dancing salons, amusement rides and hypnodream houses, crowding every main thoroughfare with their fantastically ornate architecture, were -- when you thought about it -- designed to trap people's minds, keep them from thinking of anything but a gossamer, useless pursuit of per.sonal pleasure. And wasn't the design faulty when everyone was bored, when some chose Departure and others sank to the unnatural practice of protection to whet their sated appetites? Nor was there any apparent hope for the future. Theatre productions, dream tapes, even the elaborate home teleview shows were all historical. Why? Was Government admitting there was nothing but staleness in the present? Why the concern with backtime? Because of Government entertainment diet, Allen could probthe Power of Your "Sixth Sense" "i'"w I kM AwWI Mn mw M !! kr MM m n Ul   W ppmi I I wl Muud Mj twi# o#  ' " #u tn iMt rhtMt lal  Muaft tah  ka  ttfM u ! kiu ipM't' Mn I ivtf Hw tli M ilw  tm Uw lrv OkMX ! fK Mum -- NUnU I  tni I  I II I I in TiMw  M bI  Umbb # ll IMa f.BxJ  .  Ik   -- MlM k   -- Ml to # ll fc  kM M Maiag Im k Im Mb M  mm m # #  kMA kf Mb H Vm Cm PtOVf  NO IlftK ilattr M I I AN ' NuIm k Mih-w  iIi M M (Mt MMl Ib M rvf tl M k# SkVM  r IM ha alifMi niMwwkAM #tWM to i f'-ltod.lHvrRllB...tMlfiM m MM  bto  ton #i m bm m m I # Fifth Ave., New York #, N. Y. I ! Ni -- rwR MV   Om ll iCMkf MM toM I i m tM lU n C Ito'BfV  fU m OT#M WkM ##(.M I viA  toRy Mto  I mM to ( uRM MR to t UI ftowto JI toy to  too ! to Md Cr . ably, with a bit of practice, fish skillfully from an outrigger, make and use a longbow expertly, run a store profitably in the Money Ages, weave cloth correctly, build complete wooden houses -- oh, any number of ancient things. But he couldn't even talk the same language as the relative handful of trained men who built and operated the unbelievably intricate robomachinery which activated and maintained the complex cities of Earth. his thoughts. "AI -- Dan Halgersen's coming up behind us on a single. He's one of JefT's -- " "Hold on." Allen swung the scooter hard right and adroitly darted across traffic toward an emblazoned theatre entrance. Here, now, was a situation he knew how to deal with. He said rapidly, out of the side of his mouth, "Jump off when I stop at the entry and kiss me like good-by. Register your plaque in the ID slot and head for the door -- then look back. If I'm down, go on in and lose yourself. If he's down, come back." He made a wrenching stop at the very edge of the crowd, swung Nedda through the opening between front and side rails and gave her a hard, sterile kiss. She clung to him a moment. Without letting her eyes stray she said, "Slowing down right behind you. Luck, lover." Then she turned and started to pick her way across the walk. Allen swung the scooter in a fast, tight circle to the left. Assuming his opponent to be right-handed, this would help avoid a knife slash from the rear if the other rammed his scooter -- further assuming the man had not been tricked into thinking his presence was unnoticed. He hadn't. When Allen whipped his head around to look at him, there was barely time to brake the heavier double to avoid a shrewdly planned collision. Halgersen, Nedda had said. He was thick-set, with heavy brows and large jaw. The type Allen had learned to associate with power and endurance but not too much speed. Halgersen was holding a knife in his right hand. Allen quickly slipped his own blade from the sheath conveniently held at the front of his belt. They cut intricate patterns of feint, attack and withdraw, using passing vehicles as buffers. But not for long. A voice from the crowd called, "Fight!" and space grew miraculously about the combatants, leaving a huge clearing in the street rimmed solidly with scooters and pedestrians. A few shouts of encouragement began to be heard as individuals selected one or the other of the men as a likely winner. Allen dodged a sudden attempt at a side-swipe collision and the attendant vicious swipe of Halgersen's blade -- and then drew first blood by a lightning riposte to the arm. Legal knife target was arm, leg, abdomen and a forehead cut without thrust -- which would obscure vision with blood without doing organic damage. The bright yellow luminescence of a police copter dropped and hovered as Allen tried to follow up his momentary advantage. The scene, he knew, would now be simultaneously filmed for possible legal record and broadcast on all teleview news programs. Entertainment for adults, education for the teeners. A feminine voice in the front ranks called, "Two stunts to one on green jacket!" and was immediately taken up by another girl near by. He had little time to think with satisfaction that no female had ever been forced to pay off a bet of some ingeniously embarrassing public behavior on his account. Halgersen was now trying to maneuver him for a straight ram which would bring them definitely together. He wasn't being w'eakened by the slow drip of blood from his arm and he didn't seem to be bothered by pain. And then they were close to the circle rim. Allen swung his scooter so the cooling downdraft from the copter -- coming from above the center of the cleared area -- was directly against his back, a method he had devised for knowing his position without having to take his eyes from a close opponent. He let his shoulders droop suddenly, as though he was tired, and at the murmur of disappointment from many onlookers he began to back slowly aw'ay from Halgersen. The blue-jacketed figure rolled into the trap scowling. He tried again for a head-on ram. Allen let him come, and at the last possible instant, when Halgersen would be unable to reverse, stop, or even swerve, he flipped the bar to full power ahead. And braced himself accordingly. The scooters met with a bonejarring thud of perimeter rubber. Halgersen was hurled neatly over D P his own guard rail to land gaspingly across Allen's. Allen grasped the back of the other's belt in a grip that had dismayed many a combatant, hauled him into position and hamstrung both legs with two ck'xtrous thrustarid-cut mov'emciits. It took but a moment longer to leap above a desperate slash at his own legs, drag the heavier man to the thick floor of the scooter and render him unconscious with a stamping kick of one sandaled hei'l. It left an easy repair job for the medics, but would keep one Dan Halgersen from fighting again for more than a week -- and maybe make him think twice about joining in another protection pact. Allen leaped up and balanced on two guard rails while the police copter settled down to pick up Halgersen. He signaled Nedda to move on along the walkway. While the onlookers were clapping approval of the show, he removed Halgersen's plaque, leaped down and dodged an attempted ki.ss from the girl who had given odds on him -- glancing back warily in case her escort felt insulted -- then pushed through the mob to join Nedda. She hugged his arm ecstatically. "Darling, every woman .should have a guy like you." "Yeah." He felt no sense of triumph. It had happened too many times before. Everything had happened too many times before -- repetitive, palling and purposeless. He tucked the won plaque into her decorative belt. It was Nedda's proof that protection was ended, and Halgersen would have to call for it accompanied by a witness. "Where the hell is your place?" he asked. For a moment he wondered why he didn't just turn abruptly and leave her, social mores notwithstanding. Then Nedda's perfume began its chemical magic again, and he carefully straightened his jacket and set his forelock in its proper place. "you're a nymph. Ever tried psychoconditioning?" She gave him a tender, lingering kiss and burrowed more comfortably in his arms. "Not yet, darling. Would you prefer me less -- responsive?" Allen patted her as carefully as possible to show approval without arousing her again. "No man Would. But it must be rough between dates, isn't it?" And just why should he be worrying about anyone else at this stage of the game? Maybe he wasn't. Maybe he was just curious now that it no longer mattered. She avoided his eyes in the cool semigloom of the compartment. "I -- usually manage to have enough dates. Until some moron like NealHayne puts me under protection." He disengaged himself gently, rolled off the pliant couch and increased the room's light with the wall knob. "You should register a complaint, Ncdda. After three he'll be forcibly ijsyched, you know." He dialed the servoconsole and focused a morning meal menu on the viewscreen. "Ready for breakfast, pip?" "Mmin -- if you are." Nedda came over and lifted the phone from its panel recess. "That number she algal protein is supposed to be a new taste sensation. Like?" He shrugged. "Let's try it. It'll be my last go at this robot feed." When the meals had been deposited in the service chute she looked at him pleadingly. "Hon, why don't you try being psyched? They could make you satisfied with -- things as they are." Allen lifted a thin transparent food cover while he shook his head. "Maybe they could, Nedda. But it would have to be almost total erasure to change my slant on everything, and being forced to accept what I hate is worse than anything else I can think of. It wouldn't be me when they got through. Whatever causes me to think like I do is the me, and that'd be gone." Some of the resentful animosity surged up in him and he had to talk about it. "Look at your compartment. The same as every other single in the city -- or any city. The walls arc the shade of green that's best for the eyes. Furniture and fi.tures are always the same colors. Every compartment has a servoconsole to condition the air, control the temperature and humidity, bring you food or any other standard service, provide teleview shows, music or requests. You could live your life inside this square hole. Eveiybody has everything and nothing means anything -- can't you sec that?" She came around the table and sat on his lap with her head against his neck. "No, presh, but if you'll change your mind about a DP you can date me any time, always. I'd like to share a double with you forever." He traced soothing circles on her smooth back with his fingertips. "That's the closest I've ever come to owning anything," he mused. "But hon, Government owns everything and takes care of everything. When you can always use a thing, how could it be better if you owned it?" Allen held her against him tightly, fighting the old fight to find words. How could you explain how you felt things to be right or wrong, without really knowing the reasons? "Maybe," he said slowly, "it's as though I wanted to keep you for myself alone. But Nedda, if another man made the right approach, could you refuse him?" After a minute he repeated, "Could you?" Eventually, she made two answers. They were warm and wet and dropped onto his chest. T he adjustment Building was a soaring, chastely white structure of silicoid plastic, dazzling in the hot morning sun. It crossed Allen's mind fleetingly that everything built nowadays would long outlast the builders. That seemed right, but he didn't know why. He took his ID plaque from Nedda and kissed her. He had tried to di.ssuade her from coming with him, but she had merely smiled and held his arm and urged him toward a double scooter. "This is it, beautiful," he said shortly, at the entrance. And, with an attempt at levity, "Don't take any more protection." Actually, what could you say? He went inside quickly, without looking back. D P At the door marked Kansas City Department of Social Adjustment he slipped his plaque into the correct slot for a moment and was admitted directly to the waiting room for those who had appointments for the day. There was only one other waiting -- a handsome blond youth whose knife was new. Allen sat down in a lounge chair across the room. And Nedda came in and sat down beside him. He could have understood almost anything but that. "How in the name of fear -- " "Do you think," she said mischievously, taking his hand, "the B Sector champ is theonly one who can get an appointment?" Before it could more than flash through Allen's mind that he'd not told her that, the blond youth was standing before them, his eyes hotly on Nedda. Then, obviously confused that she was already holding hands, he addressed himself to Allen as though it was what he had intended doing. "Marty Bowen, sir. Uh -- I'm going to see if they'll let me have a double compartment with some gym apparatus in it." He shifted his weight to the other foot and hung a thumb nervously in his belt, unable to keep from darting glances at Nedda. Allen noted, with rising anger and some other unpleasant emotion he couldn't define, that she hadn't dropped her eyes. He said curtly, '"Fine, kid -- hope you make it." The youth mumbled sometliing else and went back to liis chair. He had barely seated himself when a voder speaker crooned a number melodiously. With a quick backward glance at Nedda, the blond lad went on into the counsel room. Allen's mind remained in confusion, shot through with anger at himself that he should waste thoughts now on anything but the coming interview. The room was beginning to fill quietly with others. His number was called a few minutes later. And Nedda's was called along with it. Well -- the place to get the answer was the counsel chamber. He got up slowly, barely noticing that Nedda continued to hold his hand as they went in. stories high, with fluted walls and no windows. Obviously the size was to impress interviewees. But why should they have to be impressed? Wasn't the wisdom of the five tech doctors sufficient by itself? Wasn't it? He sat in a chair indicated by the dark-skinned one, and listened while the very old one in the center talked to Nedda. Had dating the B Sector park champion solved her difficulty with the man she had reported? Fine. It was the second such report about him in a year -- the other also coming from a girl who was highly sexed. Did Nedda not consider herself to have a problem which required psychoconditioning? No? Well, perhaps in later years, when her beauty and her mind were somewhat changed... No, there would seem to be no justification for giving her a compartment in another sector, unless she had persuaded the champion or another to share a double with her. Would that be all? Much happiness to her. Abruptly, Allen realized Nedda had left and that the frail old man was talking to him. "... unusual to have joint interviews without a more definite emotional tie, but we felt you would like to know how you had rendered civic aid." So pitting him without choice against any of several men was their idea of civic aid. No wonder he'd met so many protected girls in the past. This time, they'd harnessed Nedda's restless passion to the task of dissuading him from a DP. Very neat. It made him feel better to know they'd failed where he was concerned. and his resentment abated somewhat. He said, "Glad I could help," careful to keep his voice emotionless. Then, determined to have no further subtleties, "If I can have my departure permit, I won't trouble you further." Maybe his approach wasn't right, but all they could do would be to refuse him. In which case there were other ways -- and the hell with legality. "We hope," smiled the old doctor benignly, "there may be another way. Perhaps, if we discuss your problem, we can find a solution which won't cost the city a handsome young citizen." Allen made it a direct attack. "Why should the city miss any citizen? In fact, what good is the city itself -- what good is any city?" And almost, the techs seemed startled. But a younger one said easily, "A city, Mr. Kinderwood, pennits a maximum of efficient service and pleasure, with a minimum of waste and discomfort." Allen leaned back and stubbornly folded his arms. "I've had enough of pleasures and comforts without meaning, and I've nothing to do, and it doesn't look like anyone's making any progress anywhere. Even on the planets they're just repeating backtime stuff with modern equipment." The old man waved a hand at the others and looked at Allen intently. His voice was softly insistent. "The one continuous thread in human history has been the seeking of more pleasure and greater comfort for all members of the race. Our technology gives us a maximum of both. No one labors, and the few who work prefer to do so. No one is diseased, no one stays in pain longer than the time necessary to reach a medic. Everyone can have everything he needs, without striving and without debt. And as technology advances, there will be even greater benefits for all. What more can be done to make the citizens of Earth happy?" For the first time, Allen felt confused. "I don't know," he said slowly. "The way you put it, it sounds right. But where does it all lead? What reason have I got for living? What reason does the human race have for surviving?" The sociologist looked even older. "In all seriousness, sir, can you answer the questions you have just asked?" His eyes were expectant -- but there didn't seem to be much hope reflected in their depths. Allen noted a tenseness around the table. Why were they asking him for answers they were supposed to know? Or was it another of their subtli'ties? D P "No," he said curtly, "I don't know the answer to any of them. Has it got a bearing on my getting a DP?" The central figure sighed. "None at all." He pressed several tiny buttons on the polished table and an inscribed card rose halfway out of a slot. "We merely hope that some day a man will come along who can tell us -- before someone who may not be a man comes along and makes the answers futile." He handed Allen the card. "Here is your permit. You may take it to the third office south on the corridor through that door. We don't feel it is the answer to your prblem, but we admit we don't -- " "Pardon me, sir," interrupted Allen. He wet his lips. "Did you say 'someone who may not be a man'?" "Yes. It is an aspect you have not considered, Mr. Kinderwood." The sociologist's face seemed haggard. "Even a few generations ago. Earth as it is today would have seemed like a concept of heaven. We know now it is not enough, but we don't know why. Perhaps, if wc can reach the stars the problem will cease to be critical. By the same token, life from the stars may come here first. "We have no remotest idea what such an eventuality would entail. It may provide a solution. It may quite conceivably send man back to the forests and jungles. "You have experienced our only answer to the latter possibility. While providing man with everything to which he has aspired for milleniums, we instill in him, through the media of entertainment, knowledge of all the survival practices known to the backtimers who painfully nurtured civilization from an embryonic idea to its present pinnacle. We can do no more." Allen flexed his arms involuntarily at the sheer enormity of die idea. It was one thing to let a useless race expire, quite another to think of its being forced back to -- "But -- can't anyone think of anything else to do?" "Whoever is capable of devising anything else," the old doctor said resignedly, "will undoubtedly be able to carry it out with or without our assistance." He pressed more buttons and there was a muted sound of the voder calling a number. "The exit over there, Mr. Kinderwood. And -- much happiness." Allen's thoughts swirled in tumultuous confusion. Dimly, he realized that man had outstripped himself, and saw with intense bitterness that there W'as no answer on Earth for any ordinary citizen. Or was there? And if there was, was it worth trying to find? He flung open the door to the corridor violently, as though the force could quiet his mind. Maybe, if he didn't u.sc the permit, he could stay and figure out an arrswer. Nedda would be sympathetic and patient while -- And then he stopped. Across the wide hallway, Nedda stood beneath a window, looking at him. And the blond youth held her with flushed understanding, impatiently waiting, caressing her arm with his hand, binding her to him with the one bond she could not break. She watched Allen start slowly down the corridor. Once, when he stumbled, she gave a stifled sob, and tears brimmed and spilled silently when he passed through the door marked Kansas City Department of Euthanasia.    "This chicken is your wife?" he asked. "Chicken?" He handed me an ancient Earth magazine. On the cover was the picture of a very ugly woman. She had been called Marilyn Monroe. "That's a chicken," he said, "like youi-s." I shrugged. "No, she's not my wife." "If I'm not too curious, what are you going to do with her?" "It's what e's going to do with me," I said glumly. "Her father is rich and I have to go to work for him. As for her, slie has a great enthusiasm for archaic items like baseball, fine restaurants, bars, (Continued from page #) parties and -- uh -- breeding. I will probably have to escort her on these functions." His eyes lighted up. "Rich dame, good-looking and sexy, likes a good time and gets a kick out of breeding. Brother, some people have all the luck!" I sighed. "No. I'd give anything to be back in New York, working again, doing my einstcins and putting in a useful eighteen hours a day." My scatinate gave me a look of disgust and pulled his blankets up over his face. He never spoke to me again. I can see it's going to be hard to get used to colonial thinking.   . -- in the privacy of your own home! No gadgets -- nothing to buy -- yet these simple methods offer effective relief for over #  of people who now suffer from back pains I  aching across your upper back  fatigue in your shoulders  soreness shooting from base of neck to back of head and downward  weakness in hips and loins  shooting pain down your right or left leg  or other muscular discomforts Trouble." It takes the mystery out of back ailments... tells you what to do for relief from: slipped disc, sacroiliac pains, lumbago, sciatica, twists, sprains, etc. Offers you positive help for almost A well-known Philadelphia orthopaedic surgeon says: "I commend without reservafon the views expressed in this book." Then either remit the low price of # plus postage -- or return Englewood Clifft, Now Jorcoy end of that timeo I will either send you just # plus postage in full payment -- or return the book and owe nothing. Noma Addrett The good Martian Samaritans rescued Johnny Love and offered him "the stars". Now, maybe, Johnny didn't look closely enough into the "gift horse's" mouth, but there were others who did... and found therein the answer to life... he was alive, and to be alive meant fighting like hell to stay that way. That was the first thing returning consciousness told h. The next was that his helmet should have been cracked wide open when the bum landing had wrenched the acceleration hammocks out of their suspension sockets and heaved his suited body across the buckled conning deck. It should've been, but it wasn't. The third thing he knew was that Ferris' helmet had been that Ferris was dead. Sand sifted in a cold, red river through the gaping rent in the side of the ship, trying to bury him before he could stand up and get his balance on the crazily tilted deck. He shook loose with more strength than he needed, gave the rest of the muscles in his blocky body a try, and there wasn't any hurt worse than a bruise. Funny. Ferris was dead. He had a feeling somewhere at the edge of his brain that there was going to be more to it than just checking his o.xygen and food-concentrate supply and walking away from the sliip. A man didn't complete the first Earth-Mars flight ever made, smash his ship to hell, and then just walk away from it. His astrogcologer-navigator was dead, and the planet was dead, so a man just didn't walk away. There was plenty of room for him to scramble through the yawning rip in the buckled hullplates -- just a matter of crawling up the river of red sand and out; it was as easy as that. Then Johnny Love was on his feet again, and the sand clutched at his hca# boots as though to keep him from leaving Ferris and the ship, but it didn't, and he was walking away... Even one hundred and forty million miles from the Sun, the unfiltered daylight was harsh and the reflection of it from the crimson sand hurt his eyes. The vault of the blue-black sky was too high; the desert plain w'as too flat and too silent, and save for the thin Martian wind that whorled delicately-fluted traceries in the low dunes that were the only interruption in the flatness, there was no motion, and the planet was too still. Johnny Love stopX'd his walking. Even in the lesser gravity, it lUustraUd by Paul Orban seemed too great an effort to place one booted foot before the other. He looked back, and the plume of still-rising smoke from the broken thing that had been his ship was like a solid black pillar that had been hastily bulk by some evil djinn. How far had he walked; how long? He turned his back on the glinting spec and made his legs move again, and there was the hollow sound of laughter in his helmet. Here he was, Johnny Love, the first Martian! and the last! Using the last of the strength in his bruised body to go forward, when there was no forward and no backward, no direction at all ; breathing when there was no purpose in breathing. Why not shut off the valves now? He was too tired for hysteria. Men had died alone before. Alone, but never without hope! And here there was no hope, for there was no life, and no man had ever lived where there was not life! But he had come to sec, and he was seeing, and in the remaining hours left to him he would see what no man had seen in a half a Harrison and Janes or Lamson and Fowler would not be down for twenty days at the inside; that had been the time-table. Twenty days, twenty years... he heard himself laugh again. Time-table! He and Ferris first. Then Harrison and Janes. Then Lamson and Fowler, all at twenty-day intervals. If all landed safely, they would use Exploration Plan I, Condition Optimum. If only two crews made it down, Plan II; Condition Limited. And if only one made the #-day journey from the orbit of Terra -- Untenable, Return. The twentyday interval idea had come from some Earth-bound swivel-chair genius who had probably never even set foot in a Satellite operations room. Somebody had imprc.ssed on him when he was young that egg-carrying was a safer mission with a multiplicity of baskets; it was common sense that if anything happened to Mars-I touching down, at least it wouldn't happen Common sense, Johnny thought,' and he laughed again. Space was' not common, and it was not sensi-' ble. And nobody had ever taughti it the rules men made. He kept svalking, seeing, think-' ing and breathing. For a long time. He fell once or twice and picked himself up again to walk some more, and then he fell a final time, and did not get up. Red sand whispered over him, danced lightly, drifted... T he flat, wide-tracked vehicle swerved in a tight arc, throwing up low ruby-colored clouds on either side. Its engines throbbed a new note of power, and it scuttled in a straight line across the desert floor like a fleck of shiny metal drawn by an unseen magnet. Behind it rose a thinning monument of green-black smoke, and between its tracks was a wavering line of indentations in the sand already half-obliterated by the weight of their own shallow walls. But they became deeper as the vehicle raced ahead; and then at length they ended, and the vehicle halted. There was a mound of sand that the winds, in their caprice, would not have made alone, for they sculptured in a freer symmetry. And the child-like figures seemed to realize that at once. With (piick precision they levelled the mound and found Johnny Love. They took him into their vehicle, and deftly matched and replenislied the waning gas mixture in the cylindrical tanks on his back. Then they drove away with him. "Ferris?" "Ferris was your astrogeologcrnavigator. He died when you crashed." "Harrison... Janes?" "Harrison and Janes are not due for nine more days. But you are in no danger." There was darkness and warmth ; his throat was dr)' and it burned. It was hard to talk, and Ferris was dead. Harrison and Janes were not due for nine more days. Somebody said so. Nine more days and then everything would be -- Panic shook him, sent blood throbbing to his head and brought consciousness back hard. His eyes opened and he was suddenly sitting bolt upright. "But Lamson, you were twenty days behind -- " .And the racing thought froze .solid in his fumbling brain. Then there was a torrent of thoughts and memory overran them, buried them, and red desert was rushing up to engulf him. He screamed and fell back with his hands clawing at his eyes. "You are in no danger. You had thought our planet lifeless; it was an error. We live underground, John Love. That is why you did not see us, or surface indications of our existence. A group of us speak your language, because for eleven days we have been studying your brain and analyzing your thought-patterns." Johnny was bolt upright again, and now his eyes were wide and his hands were knotted, and where there had been only light and shadow before there was full sight now. Swiftly he was off the low cot and on his feet looking for the speaker, arms ready to lash out and hit. But he was alone in the small, sterile-looking chamber, and his muscles were so much excess baggage. He tried to recover his balance; he had forgotten about the slight gravity. He tried too hard, and his body crashed, confused, into a wall. A -- damn them, a padded wall! He regained his feet. Stood still, and raced his eyes about him. There it was -- above the cot. A .small round, shuttered opening -- some sort of two-way communication system. He wondered if they could see him, too. If they could, that part of it worked only one way. "All right, whoever you arc, so you've analyzed me!" He had to direct his sudden anger at something, so he shouted at the shuttered aperture. '"Now what..." There was silence for a tiny eternity, and he could feel them probing, evaluating him, as a human scientist would study a rare species in a cage. The feeling ignited a new anger in him, and made him want to curse the teachings that had conditioned his lifetime of thinking to the belief that Man was more than an animal. He'd been sold short... "Damn you! God damn you, what arc you going to do to me?" In a corner of his mind he was aware of a gentle hissing sound, but he did not listen. The fear and terror had In l)c broken. Make them tell, #iiaki' them tell... His muscles grew heavy and his face was feverish with his effort, and his eyes stung. Something... like roses. But there were no roses on dead planets -- "Earthman, can you still hear?" "I can hear," Johnny said. It was suddenly easier to talk. Even easier to understand. They had done something... "We are surprised that your state of shock was not more seere. In the process of analyzing you, we discovered that you were totally unprepared for Space-Sight, and therefore -- " "Unprepared? What do you think all those months of physical conditioning were for? Yeah, and all those damned textbooks? You think that barrel I cracked up was built in a Kindergarten class -- " "Space-flight requires but a relative minimum of those things, Earthman. Required most is psychological and philosophical conditioning." "To what?" "To all things unreal. Because they are the most real; infinity applies to probability and possibility far moi-e directly than to simple Space and Time. But -- are you calm now?" The voice was growing deeper, and seemed almost friendly. Johnny tried his muscles; they weren't piralyzcd -- he could move easily, and his head was clear. And there was no anger, now. No "shock." "Go ahead," he said. "Our examination of you has indicated that your race is a potentially effective one, with a superior survival factor. We feel that, properly instructed and assisted, such a race might be of great value as a friend and ally. In short, we receive you in peace and friendship, Earthman. Will you accept us in like manner?" Johnny tried to think. Hard thoughts, the way men were supjxMed to think. What kind of game was it? What were the strings? The angles... the gimmicks. What did they really want? His lips were dry and barely moved over his teeth, but the words came easily. "Who says you'ie a friend?" "We would have learned as much about you by examining your corpse, Earthman."  he was alive, and that had to prove something. And it might have been a lot of trouble to keep him that way. The hell of it was you couldn't know... Anything... you couldn't know anything when you were tossed into the middle of the impossible. He felt the skin on the back of his neck chill and tighten. But who held out their hand like this? Whoever did anything like tliat? No. "We wish to help you. Earthman, and your race. W'e have observed your kind at close quarters, yet we have never landed among you nor attempted communication because of fear for ourselves. But with proper help, there need be no fear between us. We offer you friendship and progress." "You keep talking about what vue get out of it." Johnny stared upward at the ceiling, got his eyes off the little shuttered aperture. He wished he had a cigarette. "You sound too damned much like a politician." "Perhaps at this point you should be informed that your ship is completely repaired, and ready for your return to Earth whenever you desire." "So, it's -- You said Harrison and Janis would be here in nine days! That means I've been out for nearly two weeks! For a nap that's a long time, but nobody could get that bucket back in one piece in eleven days! Not after what I did to it -- " "Your ship is completely repaired, Earthman." Johnny knew somehow that the voice wasn't lying. So maybe when you got off of Earth miracles did happpen. He just didn't know enough. "We wish to give you data to take back to your Earth which will banish disease for you -- all disease. Data which will give you spacecraft that match our own in technical perfection. Data that will make you the undisputed masters of your environment. We offer you the stars, Earthman." He shut a thousand racing thoughts out of his head. "Maybe I'll believe this fairy tale of yours on one condition," Johnny said, "because I can't intelligently do otherwise." "And that -- condition?" "Tell me why." There was a pause, and it was as though something forever unknowable to men hung in the silence. "Picture, if you can, Earthman," the answer came at last, "several small islands in the center of a great sea; all without life, save two. The men on one have learned to build boats which can successfully stiil the sea within certain limits -- they can visit the other islands, but are too frail and too limited in power to venture past the horizon. It is infinitely frustrating to them. The only places to which they may go are dead places. Save for one -- only one, and it becomes magnified in importance -- it becomes an entire raison d'etre in itself. For without it, the men with the boats sail uselessly... "We are old, Earthman. We have watched you -- waited for you for a long time. And now you have grown up. You have burst your tiny bubble of human experience. You have set out upon the sea yourselves..." "You guys should give graduation talks. I didn't ask for a scaleddown philosophy. You tell me that you want to give us every trick in your hat -- for free, no questions asked. So I asked why. And the question isn't changing any." "The answer should be self-evident, Earthman. We are old. And we are lonely." T here was a logic at work somewhere in his brain even during the dream. It told him that he was exhausted from the day's tour with the child-like men of Mars, and that the dream was only the vagaries of a reeling, tired mind of a badly jarred subcon scious. Ittold him that the things lie had seen liad been too alien for his relatively inflexible adult Earth mind to aeecpt without painful reaction, and this was the reaction. This, till' dream. That was all it was; his logic said so. Earth spread out before the undisciplined eye of his dreaming brain, and the near-conscious instant of logic faded. The fertile plains that once had been yellow desert-land mounted golden fruits to a temperate sun, and beyond the distant green of gently-rolling hills spread the resplendent city, and there were other cities as gracefully civilized beyond the untroubled horizon. And in the dream, these were all things men had done, as though sanity had invaded their minds overnight. It was the Earth that men had intended, rather than that which they had built. The sun dimmed. The air chilled, and the grains and fruits wilted, and the rolling hills were a darker hue than green as the shadow lengthened, spread to the gleaming cities beyond and then as it touched them and ran soundlessly the length and breadth of their wide malls, there were other changes... Skeletons, reaching upward to a puffy, leaden sky. The horizon split into jagged, broken moats of dark flame, and Earth was no longer what men had built, but what they eternally feared they must one day create... Then Johnny Love was suddenly awake bolt upright in his cot and his eyes were open wide. His muscles were taut and cramjied. And he was afraid although the men of .# Mars had offered friendship and told him that there was nothing for him to fear. Slowly, he lay down again. And gradually, the cold perspiration that had encased him vanished ; his body relaxed, and the fear subsided. The day's tour had been exhausting both mentally and physically, and there was the excitement of knowing that in five more days Harrison and Janes would land. If they did not, his own ship would carry him safely back to Earth on the day following, for the little men had miraculously repaired it; they had shown him. They had shown him, and he wanted to go home. Johnny Love rolled over on the wide, soft cot, sighed, and went back to sleep. "He sleeps again, Andruul." "Yes, but the damage is probably done." "No, or he would not sleep again so easily. His kind do not have such emotional control." The two turned away from the fading transparency of the sleeping-room wall, and their short, thin bodies were in incongruous contrast to the spaciousness of the metalsheathed corridor down which they walked. "Psychoanalysis showed up the difference in his brain structure -- that apparently accounts for the poor efficiency our screens are showing. IVhat docs Kaarn say?" "He says we should never have allowed the theft." Andruul cursed. "Allowed it! Those nomadic scum are like flies! No matter how many you exterminate, they never fail to come back in double their number. And they strike at the precise moment you are certain the bones of the last one are sinking beneath the sand. Somehow Central Patrol has got to get that unit back." You're certain it was a theft, then?" "Don't be an idiot. Since when can those gypsies build anything more complex than a crude electrical generator? Let alone a psibeam unit? They've forgotten what little their civilization ever knew." "They are clever enough at evading directed over-surface missiles." Andruul muttered something, and lapsed into silence. "Well there is one thing for certain at any rate... A psibeam unit is unaccounted for, and despite our protective screening, the Earthman was visibly disturbed in his sleep. His encephalotapes show that clearly. They know about him, Andruul, and they're making their bid. Central Patrol had belter be quick and certain this time." Andruul kept his silence. But he thought. He thought Central Patrol was getting less efficient and more stupid every day. It was a strange feeling; a feeling with which no human was emotionally equipped to deal. Johnny looked at his flawlessly renovated ship, poised like a snubnosed bullet against the blue-black brittleness of the Martian sky, and then looked behind him at the crescent-shaped formation of tracked vehicles that had escorted him back across the sucking red sand to this place. With each heavybooted step away from them he closed the short distance between them and his ship, and there was not enough time to think about the feeling. Or about the heavy sealed tube they had given him to take back to his people. Usually, when a man ventured beyond the bounds of familiar existence, there was conflict. Either a struggle to win, or, immediately recognizable success, with no struggle or hint of conflict at all. But not this. Not this success that seemed -- what was the word? Hostile? That was ridiculous. These people were friendly. But somehow -- there was an empty ring -- Hell! They had saved his life. Rebuilt his ship. Given him the tube that contained transcriptions, in his own language, of every scientific secret his people could ever hope to learn for themselves in the next thousand years! And, they had even buried Ferris... Use the brains of a mature man, Johnny Love! You've pulled it off without even trying! The most stuendous thing any man in any age as ever pulled off... without even trying! For God's sake don't question -- don't question things you don't understand! Take the credit and let the soul-searching go! He looked behind him again. They were still there. A special, smiling farewell escort, watching a single, solitary figure cross a short expanse of sand to a towering, glistening thing of power. He raised a booted foot to the bottom fin-step, hauled himself up by the stern mounting rungs, hammered the outer lock stud with his gloved fist and the hatch swung open. Like a trap. He could feci the skin at the back of his neck tighten but he forced himself to ignore it. The lock cycled up to thirteen psi and die inner port swung automatically Inward, and then he was inside, clambering up the narrow ladder past the titanium alloy fuel tanks and the spidery catwalks between them to the tiny control room in the fordiull. He would not be waiting for Harrison and Janes. He would get the hell out of here and then radio them and let them make all the decisions from there. Earth for him. Home. He ached for it. He strapped himself in the hammock, punched the warming studs for each engine, and there was a dull, muffled throb below him as each jumped into subdued life. The banks of dials that curved in front of him glowed softly, and he started an almost automatic blast-off check. It took twelve precious minutes. Then he was ready. Scanners on, heat up... ready. The Martian sky was like frozen ink above him and his hands w'ere wet inside his gloves and there was a choking dryness in his throat. Now... And he could not move. There was a sudden, awful nausea and his head spun, and before his eyes there spread a bleeding Earth; the sun dimmed, and fertile plains were cast in sudden shadow... The air chilled, the shadow spread, and there were skeletons reaching upward to a puffy, leaden sky! And Earth was no longer what Aten had built! Then the horror in his head was gone, and he felt an awful pressure on each side of it. His hands... he had been pressing with insane strength at both sides of his skull as if to crush it with his bare hands... His face was wet, and he was breathing, choking, in strangling gulps. A scanner alarm clanged. He forced his eyes to focus on the center screen. "Earthman! Emergency! There has been a flaw discovered in the repair of your ship! Do not blast off! Do not..." The other image caught him as his arm was in mid-flight toward the control bank. Sweet and warm... the fertile plains mounting their golden fruits to a mellowed sun, and beyond the distant gently-rolling hills spread the resplendent city, and there were other cities... But his ann kept going, its muscles loose, and it fell. Heavily. Squarely on the stud-complex toward which its fist had been aimed a split-second before. The engines roared, and the ship lurched upward from the red sand. The command flicked into the Captain's brain like a lash of ice. "Slaazar! Converge sheaf!" "Converging, sir... It would be no use, of course. If the high brass had been content to rely on the beams rather than on their own subtlety in the first place, the Earthman would never have fallen prey to the Nomads, even for a second. But they had wanted to be as forthright as possible -- force, they said, would only arouse suspicion. Psibeam units only as a last resort... The lowliest Patrol Lancer could have told them the folly of that! Hastily, Slaazar issued orders to his battery crews tracking the ascending Spaceship, their units already nearing overload potential. But the desert-scum would see some real psi-power now! They'd see it wasted completely if they saw it at all... Because they'd outmaneuvered the brass again! "Convergence impossible sir." As he had expected. "Colonel Truul, this is Captain Slaazar. Target has passed critical planetary curvature. Convergence impossible. Standing by, sir." For several moments after that, the thin atmosphere of Mars was warmed a little . , . not been total; leaving Mars was even easier than leaving the surface of Earth for the orbits of the Stations. But there was a period of no-thought, no-time, no-being. And then full consciousness seeped back slowly. But not as it was supposed to. Johnny Love knew he had come to because he could see the banked instruments glowing palely before him; because he could realize from reading them that his ship was doing its job to perfection. Almost ready to complete the blastoff ogee, and -- Angrily he belted the scanner switches off and the dull red sphere faded from the viewplates. And he could feel the sweat start again all over his body. No, the returning consciousness was all wrong... All wrong, and the image wouldn't go away... Red desert he had seen before, yet had not seen. There were dark ridges of brown-green at its horizon; oddly-formed crater-places that might once have held placid lakes. And on all the vast surface there was no hint of the Patrol tracks, no sign of -- anything. But he had to descend to the place. He did not know how to locate it, but the image told him that it did not matter. The image said merely that he must begin cutting his power. There was no strength in his arms and hands, yet they moved in front of him as though things detached from his body; .skillfully, surely, playing deftly across the colored studs. Scanners on. Scanners on, kid... He watched the screens again, unconscious of what his fingers did on the panels. The dull red sphere loomed large once more. The picture was off-center; without knowing W'hat he did he rectified course with the bow jets; it was centered again. But it was a different place. Still the desert, but with ridges of brown-green at its horizon; oddlyformed crater-places... It was coming up fast, now; faster, until the horizon was only a gentle arc against a thin span of blackness, and the rest was cold red. Hardly knowing what he did, his fingers suddenly raced over the control console, even before the scanner-alarms began their earsplitting clanging! The ship lurched into a direction-change that threatened to wrench the hull apart, and the picture in the scanner reeled crazily. He knew his own brain was not dictating the commands of control to his fingertips, nor was it evaluating for itself the madly fluctuating values indicated on the panels. A human brain could not have done it, he knew that... He had cut power. At least there was no power. He was falling at a crazy angle and the desert was rushing u) now, hurtling up to smash him. They'd hit him, then, yet he'd felt nothing... It was getting hot. His hull must be glowing, now, even in the thin atmosjjhere of Mars -- it was a long fall. Slower than a fall on Earth, through thinner air layers, yet he was glowing like a torch. The ocean of sand rushed up. And suddenly his left hand rammed the full-power stud. It was as though he'd been hit from behind wdth all the brute force of some gigantic fist, and there were two things. There was the split-second glimpse of a crescent formation suddenly wheeling toward him and there was the clang of the scanner-alarm. There were those two things his brain registered before the titanic force of full power squeezed consciousness from it and left him helpless. He was running. In a nightmare of a dead planet that was not dead, he ran, away from something. That was how his consciousness returned. While he ran. He stopped, stumbling, turned to look behind him. And the ship was there. Landed perfectly, stubby bullet-nose pointing to the sky. And above it -- Run! The command hit his brain with almost physical force. A will that was not his own took hold of his whole being, and he was rimning again, plowing his way through the sucking sand with strength summoned from a well of energy within his body that had never been there before. Through the thin glassite walls of his helmet he could hear the thuk, thuk, thuk of his boots as they pounded somewhere below him, and there was another pounding, a deadly rhythmic bursting pressure in his chest. And a whine in his ears... The wind-strewn sand stretched flat and infinitely before him. Then leaped at him headlong and there was no horizon; there was only the sudden awful wrench of concussion, a tremor of pure sound which would, in denser atmosphere, have destroyed him with the inertia of his own body. He could not move. Only cling to the shifting desert floor that rocked sickeningly beneath his outstretched body... cling to it for dear life. There was no thought, no understanding. Only a sensation which he could not comprehend, and the sure knowledge that none of this was real. Not real, but the end of survival nonetheless. jects transiting the darkness at which he looked; seeing something then between. His brain began identifying. The darkness; sky. The bright objects; Diemos, Phobos... And the something between -- It was a transparency of some sort; curved, or he would not have been able to detect it at all. A vaulted ceiling through which he could see... His full consciousness came flooding back, then. He tried the muscles in his neck, they hurt, but they worked, and he could move his head from side to side. There was the same transparency, as though he were covered by some huge, invisible bowl. And there were men. Big, muscular creatures, yet thin, tall... Not like the others at all... He sat bolt upright, and they did not move. It was not the same as before. No small room. No voice that he could not see. They had not even removed his suit or his helmet, and he was lying on a hard, cold substance. Then he saw what they were doing. There were two of them apart from the others, working to bring a compact-looking machine into position near him. A gleaming, short cylinder, swung on gymbals between slender forks, mounted on a thin wheeled standard. They were aiming it at him. "No! No -- ' He tried to get to his knees, but it was as though there were no muscles in his body. "Man of -- Earth! We arc friendly. Is that understood?" The thought-words formed in his brain as the strange images had before, and then he knew. Should have guessed it, part of his mind was telling him in a fantastically detached way, the dreams... the compulsions over which he had had no control in the ship... This -- thing. It probably -- "You are quite astute. Earthman. But it is not our technology which created this device. To save you and the civilization which you represent -- and ultimately, our own -- it was necessary for us to steal it. It cost six lives." "Steal..." "From your former captors. It is God... all things are possible! A you facing difficult Brohiemi? Poor Health.' Mone or job Troubles. Love or Troublei Are you Worried about Kmcone dear to you? Is some one dear to you Drinking too Much? Do you ever get Lonel -- Unhappy -- Ditcouraged? Would you like to have more Happiness, Success and 'Cood Fortune" in If you do have any of these Problems, or others like them, dear friend, then here is thousands of other men and women to gloyou -- and very, very quickly too! So don't wait, dear friend. Don't let another minute go by! If you are troubled, worried to dip this Message now and mail with #c in helping so many others and may jim as You will stirely bless this day -- so please don't delay! Just clip this Message now and mail with your name, address and #c in # Norotom. Conn. We will rush ibis their invention, as are so many things with which they destroy. With this instrument, they have succeeded in taking one of Nature's more subtle phenomenon -- psychokinesis -- and amplifying its Those stepped-up energies can then be projected in a tight or fanned beam at will. "They can make a man 'dream,' as you did -- or they can destroy him outright, depending on which given dominance during projection. But we are not skilled in its operation -- they detected our use of it on you while you slept, and from that moment on you were so well screened that even at the risk of burning this unit out, wc were not able to project powerfully enough to do more than merely touch your brain -- " T here was a strange calm in his mind, now. He undestood the words and accepted them as matter-of-factly as they were given. Even now they were manipulating him like some intangible puppet, yet he was convinced it was not a malevolent manipulation. Convinced. The conviction -- manipulation, too... "Only partly, Earthman. We said we are friendly, and we are. We have calmed you and erased your fear. From this point on, we will use this instrument only for communication. And then he felt the fear in him again, gnawing, and his body was again damp and cold. But he had control, now. Control enough to speak. They stood before him, immobile, watching. Somewhere, Johnny Love found his voice. "Look, I've been through this 'friendly' act before..." He hesitated, and they did not try to interrupt him. "Well don't just stand there!" The fear was suddenly turning to the bitter anger of frustration, they had him whipped, and he was tired. "Tell me why! You stick that thing into my head when I'm blasting for home. You force me to drop back. You blow up my ship. Real friendly! Real sports!" For a moment he had run out of words, and again they made no effort to an.swer him. "All right! I don't understand you -- I don't know what you want. But nobody is trying to hurt you, nobody's after your little desert paradise. We had an idea, that's all. Wc thought we could make it work. People have been talking 'go to Mars' on my planet for longer than most of 'em can remember. So we finally gave it a whirl! Sorry!" He looked at them hard, then, and thought that there was something almost like a smile on the face of one. Smile, then, damn you... "We want nothing, Earthman, but to prevent from happening on your planet the thing that happened on this. If they succeed in destroying you as they have us, then this System will always be under their heel, and we shall never be rid of them. Understand, their numbers were too few ever to conquer a planet with a civilization as large and as highly organized as that of Earth, by physical means. "Knowing that, we -- they call us gypsies, nomads, desert-scum today -- we were not too alarmed when they landed here two centuries ago. We were glad to take from them, without paying a price. We were awed by their gifts. Their papers and their books, which would show us how to rebuild our waning civilization -- advance us a thousand years in less than fifty; restore to us our lost arts... And compared to you, we were so very few. "In return, they said that all they wanted was permission to set up a research site. They told us they were a scientific expedition from far out-System. Aldeberan, they said. Part of a vast exploratory program which they had been conducting for centuries. "We believed them -- why not? One day, we thout, we too will be in Spaced And with that day would begin one of the greatest projects of exploration that our race had ever known. So we agreed, and gladly." "Hold it, hold it! 'They' -- who the hell are 'they'? You can spare the suspense... And then there was no more words. The pictures formed in his mind as before, only stronger, now, and there were no details left out. The weapons of war had been built, not by the out-System men, but by their hosts. The plans had not proven too difficult to follow... The new knowledge was not hoarded, was not held under jealous guard by those who had given it, but by those to whom it had been given. One man from another; one group of men from another. that have startled the Frtndi lav Itfiian. fir. American Rvlllen Abrebem ln. f AA  # prophecies dating to the year # A.D. Inter  preted in plain, easyto-understand language by tho f famed Henry C. Roberts. Nodtradamus predictions have never been dlsprevedl r Here in one Big revealing volume you will find the accuracy. Now see what may Fbe in store for us in the fu ture. Clothbound -- over # 'f Pages. 'U(I ' X'   HUi." Just a fawavonfsfromNosfrodQmut Cataclysmic Destruction of Great States and nations from each other. Until there was no trust left on all the planet. There were the wars, then. And when they were over, the new masters had established their first beaelihead in the new System. "But, it was only a beachhead, and had been only intended as such -- " The pictures broke off ; the unspoken words resumed. "Your planet was the ultimate target, but at first, your civilization was not adequately advanced to fall prey to their technique. Their weapon is knowledge, but the potentialities of that knowledge must be understood by a people before it can be effectively used to destroy them. "The rest must be self-evident. After we destroyed ourselves, they sank their infectious, hollow roots into our planet. And from then, investigated your Earth from time to time... and waited... "Waited, because they knew you would be coming. And they knew what kind of men you would be. Strong men, with the light of the stars in your eyes. Yet confused, weak men, with the darkness of suspicion and jealousy still in your souls. Such arc humans, after all... "That is why we stopped you, Johnny Love. Once your blast-off ogee had carried you beyond the curvature of their horizon and brought you over us, our psibeam was effective and theirs were not. We are sorry about your ship. Once they realize that you were under our influence, and were returning rather than taking their precious data to your people, they zeroedin with those damnable guided juggernauts -- " "It wasn't you, then. You mean they -- " "There is little that they cannot do. Destruction is their forte. They could not keep us from preventing your taking their 'gift' to your people, but they could keep that 'gift' from falling into our hands -- and they did. They do not always win. But they never lose." "But I -- " Johnny's thoughts raced. The ship, gone. And Harrison and Janes, Lamson, and Fowler. They would be landing in a few days. They -- "Yes," the thoughts of the true Martians before him answered. "And they will be given a 'gift' for Terra as you were. If your friends return successfully to your planet with that 'gift' -- then -- " The thought was not completed. But it did not have to be. A beachhead was one thing. These scattered, struggling people who had once been masters of Mars might one day unseat it, for they were not yet beaten people, and their will to survive was yet strong. But beyond that' -- Earth taken, the System taken. There it was. There was a sudden coldness inside him now that the fact had crystallized, had become real. Here was no fantasy; no wild surmise. They left him in silence while he thought, their psibeam turned away, now. Harrison and Janes. Lamson, and Fowler. Had to stop them. Stop them, and then somehow, get home. He ached for home. He thought about Ferris, who had given his life for this thing. No, Feiris would not be going home. Ferris was dead. He signalled for the psibeam to be turned toward him again. "You'd have to know their positions out there to make contact, wouldn't you?" They did not answer. He worked to get the words formed, and there was a fleeting thought of a green, lush planet far away, its wide streets and rolling fields bathed in warm sunlight. "I can figure 'em," he said. "I know blast-off schedules, speeds. I know the works! Those things they had in the books. Then you guys can do the rest with -- that thing. Right?" They answered him, then. "Thank you," they said. And that was all. "Answer me!" the General barked again. "You, Janes! Lamson! Fowler -- Harrison! For the last time, what happened out there?" The four stood silently before the nervous figure of their commander, and it was Fowler who finally spoke. said. Condition Untenable -- Return..." "That is all you can say?" "That i.s -- all, sir." The General turned away. There was frustration and anger in his face, and it hid the fear betime yet. It was the thing he saw in the faces of the four men that told him that. There had been too many giant steps, too fast. He had seen this thing in the faces of men before, but never so nakedly. One day, perhaps, men could think of Plan I again. One day, but not now. He turned back to the four, and looked once more into their faces. Plan HI. Condition Untenable. "Dismissed!" the General said. call to treat me like a criminal. Nor to talk to me as if I were senile. My outlook won't change, and you know it!" "Oh, yes, it will! And since you're neither criminal nor senile, that'.s what has to be done. "We'll do it in the most humane way possible. A little brain surgery, and you'll sit in your cage and consume and consume and consume without a care in the world. Yes, sir, we'll change your outlook ! "Now, you mustn't try to twist away from me like that, Mr. Lubway. I can't let you go. We need every consumer we can get."    Beads. # -- # a. # -- Neptune. # -- Tellurian. # -- Alpha Centauri. # -- Thuban. # -- Eighty-eight. # -- Titan. #I -- Ceres. # -- Jupiter. # -- Approaching. # -- # m.p.h. # -- All constellations. # -- Radius vector. # -- Encke's comet. # -- Binaries. # -- Mimas. # -- Heaviside Layer. Sforf Utinf fRi for # Doyf Whilcvcr you want in # -- a oew home, a happier mao' riage, a healthy state of mind and body, a belter job, more money -- here is a remarkable method for turning your (The Science of Setting Your Goal -- and then Reaching Jt) by Claude Bristol, writer, lawyer, lecturer This unusual book shosks you how to put your inner mind to work -- how to utilize the power of your subconscious mind to help you overcome obstacles and succeed in whatever you want to accomplish. Here is the secret of what women call intuition -- religious leaders call revelation -- gamblers call hunch -- top executives call personal niagoetism. The Magic of Believing" shows you:  How you can win success by working less hard than you do now.  How belief makes things happen.  How to get what yoo want easily through a process of making mental pictures.  How to use "the law of suggestion' to step up your effectiveness in every thing you do,  How to let your imagination find the ways and means of pushing obstaclei aside for you.  How "the mirror technique" will release your subconscious.  How to project your thoughts and turn them into achievements. You can put this powerful force to work for you at once In hst tO Jayt you will htgin to ite bow tbii umrkaoie mtthod ton thongt your tntirt lift! It will reveal to you what steps to tikej Irhai decisions to make: who to seti what to say; when and how. "Th.e Maic of Believing' eta See fot yourself -- without risk or obligation -- how "The Magk of Believing'# reveals the rottical way to gel more of everything you want out of life. Mail coupon below. got a lob I have been wanting and over t year. Engltwoed, Coltf. An exceedingly practical analysis of the technique of mental power... a guides book to success. -- Ain. R. BonJurant, Portland, Orr, "This book is magic! Star lUng and instantaneous re Suits seem to follow every Chapter. Truly one of the best investments #. have ever fhade.' -- Afn, . F Qlitn, Dalntb, Minn, I Englewood Cliffa New Jersey At the emt of # days I will either return the book and owe notlilne -- or keep It and enU only #I # plus a tvw penulta fot postarr anl parklnu. aoii (Itvn # a month until the low price of only # # Is pilO. Name Ad Jrefi. City Xooe Siaio... alne Charles, tana retera privilei -- your noaey bask If et eoDiIttciy utiffted. of theie Complete New Masterpiees of outd  # t I M ltN I Klirt .Vtvntufi Ml thinrncKMi. # THf astoundmg saeCETN nl lltr l-t laics ((intn'l iMwn a clv-t# eS s oriK--hicttiMi Ma#iiic liy It editor, V t 'amtibrll Jr Jusf Mai Coupon WV know you will rnioy nirmhorslnp in tins iinuMii.il nt v biHik dub. T(  ri )'K it . wi ;iriiiinkiiiK tliis niti.iiinK olTci to iirw tnt'inln'rsl SiiMUf-Kiclioii iii.iHirt iteri'!i USi filMHl luTf -- A I I L' l I't )l your first Club si-lertion. This liberal offt-r may h.ivc to Ic with(Iiawii at niiv lime. So mail cuuHn Dept. IF-#, Gorden Cify, N, Yll?aae ru#l ihr i ImmiIc cImh (.i'll -linv. my gitl ami lirtl I wicuon. Hill im (tiily FI lut ,(  (tilio h'w viu liitijuitK  . ;uter ot'cepiniK tour Mlttion. tniuk in # iLty. pay nothittf and tin nieinberihip will UaikvlU.l. I Acroit tKe Spec Frontier LioKit in ih Sky I  AHurdire Anthlv I Omnibvo f Science FUliep I #em Lender  Send of Mert I u Coves of Steel Wetl of the Sen I KiUiie. I.  . traf 'ft mi) I Address. I City niu... Male I Self tnm !.- in Tanatla St lit #u siniH'inc Addxt's  i'ir-l-itimi fltil. U# Hnd M . IvOMitO #  t rr #  n I aui C anada! #T Fiction c I e n c e I'Tuture by Ten  Tou Space ScU tnr.lAts Includin#; Willy Ley  C h e # I e y FfOneetell  Dr. Heinz Haber. by the leading Scientists I in the world! kT lastI Tlie world's ten top space research scientists reveal their  actual plans foQ the exploration and coiuiuest ol space, in this big, brand-new book. "Across The Space Frontier,' experts like Willy Ley preview actual plans for a #-stage atomic rocket ship... the first flight to the moon... the construction of a powerful giant space station -- J# miles above the earOi! Tells what the conquest of space will mean to your future. How man cun survive in space. How the man-made Space Station will be llic greatest force for peace or the most terrible weapon of war ever known. Includes actual blue prints and diagrams for an atomic rocket ship... a round-thc-moon ship... a space suit... and a Space Station. # feet in diameter. Turns amazing Flclion Book Club! Now you cun get the cream of the best new Science-Fiction thriller? for only I each (plus few cents shipping) -- even though they cost # and up in ptibllKliers' editions. Ydtf need take only four books a year -- yet you can still enjoy this sensational low price. And on this special introductory offer you arc invited to select any # of the books shown here (and described on the other side) for only t. Each is a brand-new. full-length, fullsize science-fiction thriller. A #...SO to # value -- yours for only #! Read about them -- then mail the coupon (on other side) now! See  By Milton Lesser energy. Sun heat, collected by acres of gloss pones, four layers thick, is concentrated on tiers of water pipes. Water is heated to # degrees Fahrenheit under pressure, released into "flosh" tanks (located in center of gloss panes) ond converted into steam. The toll, square tower cools water; balloonlike tonk is for water storoge. Problem: too expensive unless oil Earth's fuel is exhausted "You can atop worrying, Jane. My job'a secure now! And here'a the insurance policy lo prove ii my l.C.S. diploma! This feeling of aeeurily U probably typical of every I.C.S. graduate. Because -- aa the job ailuation gels lighter, the man with I.C.S. training has the dvanlage. Vhy? Your T.CS. diploma lella your present employer three im ponant ihiogs: (#) You want to make the most of your present job. For Real Job Security -- Cct I (#) You have the training you need for advancement. (#) You look forbetterways of doing ibingt on your own. What you do about your fu lure Is up lo you. Do nothing and stay at your prcjtenl job at the same old pay. Or rorn an l.C.S. diploma in your spare time for eeurityt promotioni more pnyt Your Arst step is lo mark the course thni Interesla you in the coupon below and mail it to us. Free books We)l send you two interesting books. The first, How to Sue ceed, is a gold mine of helpful tips. Points out many small things in your personality and behavior that can make the difference be iwcco success and failure. The second book tells you about the opportunities in ibo field of youf choice. C.S. Tmlningl Cosh poonJot a day Many an I.CS. student has mad# up the cost of his course in one munih wiih the salary Increase hit l.C.S. training corned for him. By studying at home in your spare time, you pay yourself many limes an hour more than youre now making. (One student reports -- My I.C.S. course was worth #S an hour to me.") The security of your pres enl Job -- or the success in And ing the new Job you've always wanted -- is in your hands. Move ahead with #. C. S. training while others stay behind on the routine, smalhpay jobs. Re member, your Arsl step lo ae curity and success la to mail tbit coupon. Take  few min ttics and do it note. If you put it off it can cost you yew future I.C S., Scranton # Penna. moou cMt w oUsstiiM. und M '##W a suecuo" Md  aMathslly tookM aoot Ota loiS  Atchilodiirt OAdvniiln  Hlfhwn tnfnttin O l#Mtdir Miinltfunc Q Suilwi AiJdiinafiUtefl Q jn'UOr tninf mi # CafpwJH nd aH WMk O CariMeoMiitca O SVwhhl O CiitiRW AiiMk Accowntrfit Q Survirini nd Mapptnf ! Mi CndiltaniN'Rflri, Atchiiodiiri luiliTtni Cenirsetor SMtdir Miinltfunc ndMiJlWa(k ttlinwiinc HHitac O Psifltint ConlucW O PlamSint S lMdin ArcA StsrlalS QCrtMaA # I w Ai ow I ihtrnlpOd O aitf lA umtnltnt O Vmm Card Md Sa lattailag  aad Paoili  Aah Body labnMiae Aohllat TadMMiM AalalaiM Tom U# O nnali Sthiaan Ql  ONc MAimal O   laUil ButMm aaotiMaanl  i  Salat Rbwaii n al Q  Stow'ahScfttofUI O O TraSK HUnaiaiwaal  Aoaliwa Ckaaintrr Q i O Ckm US lathiciaa O O Cwifat CAotwittr? O aattfS Cat PiM S TfMS O g PaValaaw lagiagatiaa  ruitin O OraUaMrUUtH O  AnJidKtufiJ OtaRlnf O tticai Dratlmi O Wtchaatcal Oianinf  Mim Sanrtrini and iUMlB Ship OiiAiaf StnKtarM Drrfliaf O CoiiMMrifle Q Eiactneal UaMdaMaca  GoadCoflHli  fartw M af # caorwa) KOtf wucS I Aav naOkod X: Q IMuatnat SapahitioA  # tw # lacootlM Q Uadhihip and OriankialtM  IkoflaiivatnimaW O rartoAnal-UbM RtlitiOAi G SKtian F#finin OCatCIliK Wildtnff O CemSuiiioa tAfoMoni Q Htl Itailmtfil O MUllu((r O Dittal-Eltc E # Dittai ln(  indmlrial Cflcmatrtni  CIkUk LicM and Pwar Q ladnlrlal lattmnwnUUoS O Saltanarr ricaman G ladatUtal SupaniitM Q Stationary Slaaai CAdrwafJi  UachiAO Shop lrswoct.# O Catdmf aad Spania  hlachuio ShM fiaclKt O Cotton. Rayon. Wooha Ms  Qotir Cwtrol QLonruint Modtag Shop Stoapnoti O Tyabst Ottirtini RUiioratB D Taitilo OTtdpol G Shoot MaUI WMkor O arp.i( and Watoiat # IlKbon( Q Maforo ntH.tog fiaclcN Oadio-IV Caerad OOeaaahatdNM  Radio and TV Sohkiog O SliipMtmd O Rad OponiMi C Shad SWy Drritde C ioi fl aa h i Ida a h UM t o op oa la laUnaUoal CorratpooSMco SUsah. Caaadiaa. Ud, UmraU. CastSi... Spatial Iwtiaa nm U mmwm N Aa U t ArMd rcap. All Stories New and Complete Cover by Robert Swanson: Comparison of the Sexes, # A.D. Mill I Power from the Sun's Roys  IF is pulilMicd monthly by Quinn Publishing Company, Inc. Volume #, No. #. Ck)pyright # by Quinn Publishing Co., Inc. OfRcc of publication, # Lord Street, Buffalo. New York. Entered as Second Class Matter at Post Onice. BufTalo, New York. Subscription S#. # for # issues in U.S. and Pos.scssions; Canada # lor # issues; eLsewhere #. Allow four weeks for change of address. All storiK appearing in this magazine arc fiction; any similarity to actual peisons is coincidenta). Not responsible for unsolicited artwork or manuscripts. #r a copy. Printed in U.S. A. Next issue on sale September lOtk you're that man. here's something chat will interest you. Not a magic formula -- not a getrichquick scheme -- but something more substantial, more practical. Of course, you need something more than just the desire to be an accountant. You've got to pay Soil, wouldn't it be wonh your while to sacrifice some of your leisure in favor of interesiiog borne study -- over a comparatively brief period. Always provided that the rewards were good -- a salary of # to S #' An accountant's duties are interesting, varied and of real worth ro his employers. He has fjmJtagf Do you feel chat such things aren't for you? Veil, don't be coo sure. Very possibly they fSH be! Why not. like so many before you. investigate LaSalle's modern Problem Method of training for an accountancy, position Just suppose you were permitted to work in a targe accounting house under the personal supervision of an expert accountant. Suppose, with his aid. you studied accounting principles and solved problems day by day -- easy ones at first -- then more difficult ones. If you could do this -- and could turn co him for advice as the problems became complex -- soon you'd master them all. That's the training you follow in principle under (he LaSalle Problem Method. You cover accountancy from the basic Principles light up inrough Accoununcy Systems aisd Income Tax Procedure. Then you add C. P. A. Training and prepare for (he C. P. A examina(sons. As you go along, you absorb the pnneiptes of Audiung, Cost Accounting. Business Law, Stacisticai Control. Organiation. Management and Finance. Your progress is as speedy as you care to make it -- depending on your own eagerness to learn and the time you spend in study. Will recognition come. The only answer, as you know, is thai success ifvj come to the man who is really twneJ. Ir's possible your employers will notice your improvement in a very few weeks or months. Indeed, many LaSalle graduates have paid for their training -- with increased earnings -- before they have completed it! For accoununcs. who axe trained in orgamaation and management, are the executives of (he future. Snd For Froo Sampio Lofson For your own good, get diJ (he kts. Write for our free #-page book, "Accountancy. The Profession That Pays" -- also the free sample lesson so you can prove to yourself that you can master accountancy quickly, choroly in spare time at borne. Ovor # Cartiflad Public Accountant amono LoSollo olumnl A Corrospondenco institution Send me without obligation. Free Sample Lesson and "Accountancy, The Prolessioo That Pays. Nsmt Apr...,..., AJdftu Citj, ## # Stsi# .AM thing of a "gimmick", and the definition in the dictionary is rather ambiguous, too. "Resulting or terminating favorably or as desired; also, achieving success, wealth, position or the like. Syn. Prosperous, fortunate, thriving, flourishing." It's a popular definition, of course, but if you look at the word long and thoughtfully, you begin to see loopholes in the dictionary definition -- and after awhile (maybe years) you wind up with a definition all your own. What does "successful" mean? And to that question you might add: "Successful in what?" From that point you can go into a multitude of definitions and near-answers and generalities. Like the person voted by his or her class to be most successful. Like the twenty or thirty or some-number of men or women voted by some people to be the most successful in the country or the state or something. But you can't measure success that way. You can't use a given yardstick; it is a nebulous quality and it must be broken down many times to get its shades of value. Like successful in what? Then: "Who is successful in what?" And still: "Who considers himself successful in what?" That which the public considers successful is entirely different from what the individual might consider success for himself. Let's go back to the old phrase, "there goes a successful man". How does anyone but that person know he's successful? Oh, you say, he's president of the bank. Or, he Or. he's got fourteen children and feeds them three square meals a day. Or, he's the world's champion bo.xer or swimmer or golfer. Sure, that's got it square on the head -- if being president, or havfourteen children or being champion -- if that is what he or she wants and it makes him happiest, then that person is successful. But it's pretty safe to venture that -- nine limes out of ten -- this isn't always the case, at least as far as the indivdual is concerned. A man's life is made up of many facets and intangibles and if he's hapy or successful in one of them he's lucky or fortunate. Some years ago I met a blind man who raised strawberries on a little patch of ground less than an acre in size. They were wonderful strawberries and he was happy raising them. Some people considered him unfortunate. He considered himself successful. Another time I met a retired railroad engineer whose worldly goods were certainly not pretentious. But after hearing him tell of his experiences during the early days of railroading and brag about bringing in his train on time through some of the difficulties he faced and seeing his face light up with each story -- you couldn't doubt that his life had been a success. What was even more important, he thought it was. Conversely, you can talk to people in the limelight, famous people who have been successful by the general yardstick, and they'll sometimes open up and say "hell no! what I wanted was something else." Sometimes people who haven't got it, have it more than you think. And sometimes those who seems to have it, haven't got it after all. It is the inner .success of the individual upon which hinges the ultimate success of mankind. Now, what is the ultimate success of mankind? I would say that mankind has been successful, so far, in many ways. Simply propagating and living in such close quarters on this globe may be one. Gaining new knowledge of the universe and its components may be another. Beating some diseases and lengthening the life of individuals may be still another. In these things we cannot doubt that mankind has been successful. But are these individual successes enough? There are other goals to strive for -- and there is the fly in the ointment. Shadings and meanings that were part of each man's personality have gone into making up the individual successes, and tliey color world leadership too. In leadership, personal success is not enough, yet the shadings enter into -- let's say -- statesmanship. Whether war is avoided or plowed right into is a part of a personal or patriotic desire to achieve success. And the immediate success becomes the goal. But the ultimate success of mankind is a larger goal than that. What is that goal? And, having attained the goal, will mankind be "successful"? Let's say the goal is the welfare of all the peoples of the world... and start all over again with statesmanship. Or -- with human nature? reading some of the most interesting manuscripts that have ever come into this office. Not by professional standards, of course -- but because they represent the ideas and imaginations of students in colleges all over the United States and Canada. These manuscripts are their answers to the theme question in IP's first nationwide College Science Fiction Contest: "What Will Life In America Be Like # Years From Now?" When the winners have been selected, seven young men and women will receive # in cash prizes, with # going to the author of the manuscript judged the best. The awards will be announced in next month's issue (November), with the winning .stories appearing in subsequent issues. Don't miss them; they contain some refreshingly new approaches to science fiction. -- jlq It was a duel to the death and Kraas' had all the advantages, including offense and defense. Jonner had neither, but he employed an old equation peculiarly adaptable to the situation. And the proper equation properly worked... M urdering stcin was easy. Kraag waited until Jonner donned his spacesuit and went out to have a personal look at the asteroid. Even then Kraag held his patience, because he wanted Jonner to come back to the .ship unsuspecting. Kraag sat tensely at the back of the control room while Stein, the navigator and communications man, operated the radio. There was a brief period when Stein talked with Marsport, then he got in touch with Jonner. Until Jonner got some distance from the wrecked ship, most of their conversation was an argument. "I still think two of us ought to go out and one stay at the ship," argued Stein. "Kraag agrees with me. What if you fall into a crevice?" "There's not much danger, and you've got a directional fix on me," replied Jonner's voice through the loudspeaker. "If we had a large crew. I'd agree we ought to explore in pairs. Since there are just three of us, only one ought to be endangered at a time. I'm the captain, so I'm it." "Well, don't get out of sight," warned Stein. "We don't have an atmosphere here to bounce radio waves over the horizon." Through the glassite port, Kraag could see Jonner poking around at Illustrated by Paul Orban lX'J r-'r ft-# #r! A 'r'wj M m m. the asteroid's surface with his steel probe. Against the incredibly curved horizon, jonner's suited figure leaned at a slight angle under the black, star-studded sky. The distant sun gleamed from the sphere of his helmet. "Pretty smooth terrain," remarked Jonner. "It's not much of a planet, but it seems to have enough mass to pull down any mountains. Looks like there should be some hills, though. It must have been in a molten state when the original trans-Martian planet was broken up." "That ought to mean high albedo," said Stein. "Higher than it ought to be." "Sounds more like Vesta," said Jonner. "Sure we're on Ceres?" Stein looked at the notes he had made from the ship's instruments, before the crash. "The escape velocity was #I feet per second," he said, "and the diameter #. I figure the mass at .#." "All those figures are off according to the latest table for Ceres," said Jonner. "The fellows that made that table were on Mars," reminded Stein. "Vesta doesn't have a #mile diameter. It must be Ceres." "You're the navigator," surrendered Jonndr. "I'll lake your word for it." The personnel sphere of the ship rested on the ground, tilted at almost a #-degrec angle from the horizontal. The tilt was no inconvenience, however. Each of the men weighed only five or six pounds here, and slippage was hardly noticeable. "I'll turn you over to Kraag," said Stein at last, glancing up at the chronometer. "It's my day to fix supper, you know." It was the signal Kraag had been waiting for. He reached behind him and fumbled in the rack for a gun. The one he brought out was Jonner's, and it wasn't a heat-gun but the ancient pistol Jonner swore by. Kraag put it back hurriedly, but not before Stein had turned in his chair and seen it. "What's up, Kraag?" asked Stein without alarm. "Why the gun?" Kraag pulled a heat-gun from the rack. "Nothing's up," he said, and shot Stein. The ray burned into Stein's shoulder, and Kraag swung it down across Stein's chest to his stomach before relaxing his pressure on the trigger. "My God, Kraag!" gurgled Stein. Summoning a last effort, he croaked into the microphone: "Jonner! Watch out! Kraag shot..." Kraag blasted him in the face, cutting him off. Stein's body floated forward and upward out of the chair and began to settle slowly toward the slanting floor. "What's going on, Stein?" came Jonner's alarmed voice over the loudspeaker. "Stein? Stein!" "It's all right, Jonner," said Kraag as calmly as he could, when he could reach the microphone. "Stein just fainted." There was silence from Jonner. "I'll take care of Stein and then take over the mike till you get ready to come in," said Kraag into the microphone. "I want to talk to Stein when he comes around," said Jonner. His voice sounded cold. So Jonner suspected something. Well, that couldn't be helped. Maybe he could be talked around. "All right, Jonner," agreed Kraag soothingly. Stein's body had to be hidden from Jonner, just in case Jonner got into the personnel sphere alive -- something Kraag did not intend for him to do. When he had taken care of Jonner, he could dispose of both bodies before the rescue sliip got there. Dragging Stein's body was like towing someone through water. It floated through the air of tlic sphere at Kraag's tug. settling slowly. His only problem was getting good leverage for pushing, .fter some cogitation, he jammed the body into an empty food compartment two decks below the control room. Back in the control room, Kraag looked out the port. Jonner was closer to the personnel sphere now, looking toward it but not moving. Other portions of the ship, some jettisoned, some crumpled and broken apart by its crash, lay at varying distances from the personnel sphere. Some of the parts were scattered out of sight beyond the horizon, a mile away. Kraag had not wanted to fool with the asteroid. There had been no question that they had to swing back off their original orbit toward Titan when the meteorite slashed open both of their hydrazine tanks. But Kraag's idea had been to stay in space and try to turn back toward Mars before the fuel gave out. As the engineer, Kraag resented Jonner overruling him. Jonner had felt it safer to take an orbit around the asteroid and wait for rescue. But the fuel pumps had failed before they could adjust to the orbit. Kraag would never forget that helpless waiting as they circled and circled, spiraling downward to the inevitable crash. He went back to the microphone. "Okay, Jonner." he said. "What's going on out there now?" "Where's Stein?" countered Joiiner. "I want to talk to him." "He's not feeling so good. Said he'd rather not try to get back up to the control room right now." "Tell him to come to the mike anyhow. I don't want to talk to you till I talk to Stein." "Stein can't talk, I tell you. If you don't want to talk to me, then arc you ready to come in?" ".nd get shot?" retorted Jonner. So Jonner's suspicions were that definite. It was to be cxjKCted after the words Stein had been able to shout into the microphone. Jonner was nobody's dumbbell. Kraag tired once more. "That's a ridiculous idea, Jonner," he said. "I can't figure why you'd say such a thing." "You shot Stein," said Jonner positively. "There's no use your denying it. I know you shot Stein, and I'll know it until Stein himself tells me it isn't so." Kraag knew Jonner too well to try to keep up the pretense any longer. He tried another tack. "Okay, so I shot Stein," he admitted. "That doesn't mean I'll shoot you. Come on in and talk it over. We can make a deal." "If you shot Stein, why wouldn't you shoot me?" asked Jonner logically. "There wasn't enough air for three. There is, for two." Jonner was silent for a moment. "So that's why you did it," he said then. "Figured it pretty close, didn't you, Kraag?" "I'm the guy who has to watch supplies on this boat. I checked the oxygen after the crash broke open those three compartments on the supply deck. There's # pounds of oxygen left. It'll take almut # months for the rescue ship to get here from Mars...t # pounds of oxygen a day, you and I can make it, but it would have lasted the three of us only # months." Jonner cursed him for a full minute, not loudly but with such intensity that Kraag felt his face getting warm. "You damn murderer!" finished Jonner. "You damn cold-blooded murderer!" "Cut it out, Jonner," growled Kraag. "I can't understand you and Stein. What were you expecting to save us? A miracle?" "I don't feel like talking about it now," said Jonner warily. "If you had only... Hell, Kraag, we'd been together a long time. Even if all of us had thought we were going to die, I didn't think we'd kill each other off like animals." "Self-preservation is the first law of nature," said Kraag cynically. "Better that two should die than three. Come on in. Jonner." "That's self-presei-vation? No thanks, Kraag. You know I'll turn you in as a murderer when the rescue ship gets here. I have no hankering to walk up where you can burn me down." "Okay, stay out there till your air gives out." The airlock was not a comfortable place to spend one of the asteroid's seven-hour nights, but Kraag was afraid not to stand guard there with his heat-gun. He was afraid to sleep, too, for the airlock combination was virtually noiseless and Jonner could open it from the outside. Jonner was unarmed, but Kraag had no hankering for a hand-to-hand fight with the powerfully built captain inside the personnel sphere. Because the air would swish out of the lock instantly if Jonner ojicned it, Kraag had to wear a spacesuit. He tried to talk to Jonner several times, but got no answer. Toward dawn, Kraag doed olf, only to be brought awake with a start by Jonner's voice in his earphones. "Good morning, Kraag," said Jonner. There was iron in his voice. "Have a good night's sleep?" "About as good as yours. I'd say," retorted Kraag, wishing he could get his hands inside his helmet to rub his eyes. "I slept fine. Found me a good foxhole just beyond the horizon." "Damn you, Jonner! Where are you now?" "Go on and have breakfast, Kraag. I'm far enough away for you to see me. Take a look." Kraag peered out of the uppermost airlock ports, one by one. They slanted at a bad angle, but through one of them he made out Jonner, standing half a mile away. Uncannily, as though he could see Kraag's helmet at the port, Jottner waved. Kraag was afraid to take olT the sparesuit now because the supply deck had no ptorts and Jonner could get to the sliip in a hurry if he wanted to. He took off the helmet, though, and went up to the center deck. Hurriedly, he opened the cover of the port in the direction he had seen Jonner. jonner was still in the same place, sitting down. Kraag heated breakfast and ate it with an eye on the port. Jonner didn't move. Kraag felt better when he had eaten, and went up to the control room. "Why don't you give it up and come on in, Jonner?" he asked. "The o.xygen in that suit's not good for more than another #.') hours." "That's where you're wrong, Kraag, and that's what's .so tragic about your murdering Stein," said Jonner quietly. "You either forgot that we carried oxygen instead of nitric acid as the fuel oxidizer this trip or, being an engineer, you didn't think of it except as fuel. "There's enough oxygen in the tanks scattered over the landscape to keep a dozen men alive until the rescue ship gets here. It's hard for me to get at, but I've already found I can manage it." Kraag was profoundly .shocked. For a moment the enormity of what overwhelmed him. It had been completely unncce.ssary. Then his self-reproach turned into a growing anger against Jonner. Jonner was always so reticent, always required his orders to be obeyed without explanation. During the whole argument about taking an orbit around the asteroid, during the whole time it had taken to spiral down to a crash, he had not told Kraag how he expected them to stay alive until they were rescued. Kraag hadn't asked him, of course. Kraag had assumed Jonner was thinking in terms of his own figures. "I'm sorry about Stein," said Kraag, and meant it. "But it can't be helped now, Jonner. There's enough air for both of us, if you'll keep your mouth shut when the rescue ship gets here." "If I promised, I still wouldn't trust you and you wouldn't trust tne. No, Kraag. The only way it'll work is for you to come out unarmed and let me go in and get the guns. Then I'll lock you in the control room till the rescue ship gets here." "One of us is a fool, Jonner, and you seem to think it's me. I'm not going to burn for murder. I've got the whip hand. You may have oxygen, but you've got to have food and water, too." Jonner laughed, without humor. "I've got enough of that for three Earth days and I can last longer," he said. "Before that time, I'll come and get you, Kraag. Don't go to sleep!" Kraag cursed and switched off the loudspeaker. But he kept an eye on Jonner through the glassite. Always, he had to watch Jonner -- or stay on guard in the airlock. If there were only some way to lock Jonner out! But the only real lock was on the control room, and a man couldn't live in the control room with an enemy below who could cut the water and oxygen lines. Kraag would have to sleep .some time. Jonner couldn't know when, but Jonner already was ses'cn hours sleep up on him. Jonner could pick his own time to slip up to the sphere under cover of darkness, he could pick his own time to come through the lock. Maybe Kraag would be awake and could burn him down -- but maybe not. There was only one thing to do. He'd have to take the attack to Jonner. every port he passed, always watching Jonner, Kraag hung a heat-gun on one of the hooks at his spacesuit's belt. He went back below, put the helmet on, and went out through the airlock. The shadow of the sphere stretched away toward his left. He was in sunlight. Jonner, still in the same spot, got to his feet but made no move to approach. "Welcome to the great outdoors," said Jonner. "I'm going to get you, Jonner," said Kraag grimly. "One way or another. I'm going to get you." He moved toward Jonner. Each step was a long, floating leap and it was hard to stay balanced before landing. Jonner moved, not away from him but sidewise. Kraag stopped. The effective range of the heat-gun was no more than # feet. If he tried to get close enough to Jonner to use it, Jonner could circle and get to the personnel sphere. There were the oxygen tanks, the big ones used for fuel. If Kraag could get to them and bum them open, Jonner couldn't last long outside. But they were scattered pretty far from the personnel sphere. Jonner would get to the sphere for sure if he tried that. "Okay, Jonner, I know when I'm licked," said Kraag. "Come on in." "I'm not too far away to see the gun, Kraag." "I'll take it back to the sphere and leave it." "Why not just toss it away?" "And have you beat me to it and get the drop on me? We'll leave the guns in the sphere and I'll meet you on even terms." "I'll believe it when I see it." Kraag went back to the sphere. He couldn't stand in shadow without looking suspicious, but he took the heat-gun from his belt ostentatiously and swung it in an arc, apparently tossing it through the open outer lock. Instead, he held onto it and hung it by the trigger guard to a belt hook at the back of his suit. "I'm all clean, Jonner. Come on up," he invited. "Let's see the hooks, Kraag," said Jonner. Kraag held his arms aloft, wriggling the empty steel fingers of the spacesuit. Jonner came toward him, floating high above the surface with each step. At just about the extreme range of the heat-gun, he stopped. Kraag kept his arms outspread, but tensed himself. "Clean, so far," said Jonner drily. "Now turn around, Kraag." "And have you jump me from behind? Not hardly." "Gun on the back hook, eh, Kraag?" "Damn you, Jonner!" Kraag reached behind him for the gun and at the same time leaped toward Jonner. Jonner, ready, jumped back, and Jonner was a more powerful man. Handling a heat-gun with the hand-hooks of a spacesuit is awkward business, and by the time Kraag could bring the weapon to bear on Jonner and press the trigger, jonner's distance was such that the ray obviously did no worse than make things uncomfortably warm for him. "I didn't think that surrender rang true," commented Jonner. "If you'd been Ieel, you'd have tossed away the heat-gun." Then Jonner revealed that he was not entirely weaponless. As he hit the surface, his arm moved in an arc and a good-sized rock came hurtling through space toward Kraag. Kraag writhed frantically, two feet off the ground, and the stone missed him by inches. Kraag landed on his side and bounced again. Jonner hit once more and hurled another rock. Evidently he was armed with .several of them. This one ricocheted off the ground near Kraag just as Kraag finally .slid to rest. Getting to his feet and turning to flee was agonizingly slow, when every frantic movement lifted him off the ground. Another stone came sailing by, to strike the personnel sphere and rebound at an angle, before Kraag could jump back, away from Jonner. Perspiring and panting, he clambered hastily back into the safety of the airlock. Jonner's rocks were a better weapon than a heat-gun, Kraag realized. They weighed only a fraction of an ounce and Jonner could fling them an amazing distance. But their mass was just the same as ever, and a jagged one could rip a fatal hole in a spacesuit. He had no intention of engaging in a stonethrowing duel with Jonner, in which Jonner would be at least on equal terms with him.  On the other hand, it was even more imperative than before that he eliminate Jonner as soon as possible. A rock could be a deadly weapon if Jonner got inside the sphere, too. At any rate, there was no point in concealing Stein's body from Jonner any longer and Kraag couldn't take chances on it polluting the atmosphere of the sphere. He dragged the corpse from the food compartment, down to the airlock, and pushed it out onto the surface of Ceres. The body settled stiffly to the ground a few feet away. Kraag removed his helmet and hand-hooks, went back up to the control room and settled himself to watch Jonner. Jonner walked around freely, periodically hurling rocks at the sphere. The rocks bounced off without damage, but every time one of them hit the hull, the sound of it rang through the sphere. Kraag switched on the communications system. "Do you have to do that?" he demanded in irritation. "It's not doing you any good." "Keeping me in practice," replied Jonner cheerfully. "I developed a pretty good arm throwing grenades in the Charax Uprising." Jonner was a veteran of that brief but savage war on Mars, and sometimes reminisced about it. It was there he had developed his preference for the old-style projectile pistol over the heat-gun. ner's pistol, hanging in the rack with the heat-guns, and slowly an idea spread through his mind. The heat-gun range was the same anywhere, but the range of a projectile weapon .should be greater hefe than on Mars or Earth. Its range should be far greater than Jonner's rocks. Kraag took it from the rack and turned it over in his hand, studying it. He wasn't sure of its principle, but thought it was something on the order of rocket fuel. It should fire without an atmosphere around it. There were some figures stamped Cal-.#, MV#I #, Ser-# #." Kraag puzzled over them. He knew the first one was the make and year and the last undoubtedly was the serial number. He deduced that "MV-llOO" probably was a figure showing tlie relationship between the projectile's mass and velocity. But it had been a long time since projectile weapons were common. He called on the memory of a demonstration of the weapon Jonner had given his companions once on Mars. There was something that had to be done to prepare it for firing. Holding it in his right hand, Kraag grasped the barrel with his left. After a moment of hesitant tugging, he hit the right movement and the whole outer casing of the barrel slid backward and clicked. It snapped back into position as Kraag released it, and he remembered. The gun was primed now. All he had to do was press the trigger and it would fire. It would automatically prime itself again after firing. It would fire each time he pressed the trigger now, until it exhausted its projectiles. Exultant, he laid it carefully in a contour chair, where it wouldn't slide out. He put his helmet back on and replaced the hand-hooks of his spacesuit. He looked out several ports before he found Jonner. The captain was not more than # feet away, casually lobbing rocks at the sphere. Kraag picked up jonner's pistol and made his way down to tlie airlock. He emerged and walked around the sphere to the side where he had located Jonner. Jonner was moving away now, though he couldn't have known Kraag was coming out. He was about # feet away -- too far for a heat-gun, but certainly w'ithin range of the projectile weapon. He seemed to be headed tow'ard one of the big fuel tanks. Kraag levelled the pistol toward Jonner and pulled the trigger. To his astonishment, he was hurtled backward, heels over head. The kick of a .# on an asteroid is pretty powerful. Kraag must have bounced # feet backward over the terrain before he slid to rest on his stomach. But he held on to the pistol -- and, since he never had a chance to release the pressure of his hand-hook on the trigger, it did not fire again. When lie struggled upright, Jonner was standing at the edge of the fuel tank, watching him. "Using my gun now, ch, Kraag?" Jonner said. "You'd better stick to weapons you know something about." With that, he disappeared behind the fuel tank. Kraag got to his feet and advanced confidently. His heat-gun was still hanging at his belt if he got close enough to Jonner to use it, and he could fire the projectile weapon at Jonner when Jonner was out of heat-gun range. He was learning. One had to point the projectile gun accurately before firing. It couldn't be swung around and focussed while pressing the trigger, like a heat-gun. He might miss a few times, but he ought to be able to hit Jonncr at least once before the ammunition was exhausted. Once should be enough. Heat-gun ready in his left hand, projectile gun in his right, Kraag circled the fuel tank. Keeping it between them, Jonner had headed straight for the horizon, running in long, shallow leaps. He was at least half a mile away. Kraag pointed the projectile pistol and pulled the trigger. Nothing happened. Then he realized that he had never released the pressure of his hand-hook on the trigger after firing the first time. He let up on it and pressed it down. And again Kraag was hurled backward, but this time he was smashed against the fuel tank and rebounded forward, falling on his face. By the time he reached his feet again, Jonner had vanished over the horizon. Cursing softly, Kraag made his way back to the personnel sphere. He had hoped to get Jonner with that shot. He was very sleepy, and now he was faced with another night on guard. He entered the airlock, pushed himself gently upward to catch the rungs of the metal ladder and turned the wheel of the airlock's inner door. Nothing happened. The door did not open. Fear gripped him like a paralyzing hand. For a moment he thought Jonner had managed to get to the sphere ahead of him and somehow had locked him out. But that was impossible. Then he thought the inner door might be jammed, and he and Jonner locked out together. He glanced frantically below him, then broke into relieved laughter. He had left the outer airlock door open. As a safety measure against the sphere's accidentally losing its air, neither door would open unless the other was shut. And that meant he could lock Jonner out of the sphere simply by leaving the inner door of the airlock open! His laugh was full and genuine now as he pulled the outer door closed. "Having fun, Kraag?" asked Jonner in his earphones. "Just looking forward to a good night's sleep, for a change," retorted Kraag triumphantly. "Prowl around all you want to, Jonner. I can wait you out, now." "The airlock, eh? I wondered when your guilty conscience would settle down and let you remember about that airlock," said Jonner phlegmatically. "You know, Kraag, I had no idea you wouldn't think about a simple thing like that, till I looked through the airlock port last night and saw you huddled up there with a heat-gun. You should have turned out the light." Jonner was silent for a few minutes. Then he added: "I don't think I'd laugh yet, though, Kraag. Remember, you're fighting with my weapons." Kraag wasn't sure what he meant by that: whether he was talking about Kraag's using the projectile pistol or the fact that they were in space, Jonner's natural element. Kraag himself had been in space # years, most of it with Jonner, but before then he had never left Earth. Jonner had been born and raised on Mars, where a man needed a suit to go to the next settlement, and he had been on a ship since he was #. As for using the pistol, Kraag could sec danger for no one but Jonner. He had proved, twice, that he could fire it. He was quite sure the old-fashioned wcapon was no more likely to e.xplode than a heatgun. The only trouble he foresaw was figuring how to reload it if he used up all its projectiles before hitting Jonner. Kraag shrugged and removed his suit. He was hungr', and he was looking forward to a supper better than Jonner had available in the concentrated supplies in his spacesuit. Jonner's food and water bynow had dwindled to less than # hours' supply, unless he was weakening himself by going on slim rations. A S HE wolfed down his supper, Kraag took stock of his situation. He could sec no flaw in his position...-Ml he had to do was sit back and wait. He decided not to destroy the tanks that were Jonner's supply of extra oxygen. After all, Jonner could not last beyond his food and water supply. The presence of the oxygen made his case airtight. He could disjx)se of the bodies of Stein and Jonner and tell the crew of the rescue ship they had wandered off on an exploration tour and never returned. With plenty of oxygen for the three of them, no motive could be established, against him for the murders.  He began to feel rather sorry for Jonner. They had been companions, and Stein with them, for a long time. After eating, he went up to the control room and turned Jonner in on the communications system. He was genuinely regretful that Jonner had to die so soon. It would be lonesome on the asteroid with no cne to talk to. "I hope you've been keeping the radio open to Marsport, in case there were any inquiries," said Jonner. "If they get the idea we're all dead out here, they may call off the rescue." "The last time tliey called was right after you left the ship," said Kraag. "Stein was going to tell you, but I suppose he forgot it. Marsport knows where we are. A rescue ship should have blasted off by now." "That's the advantage of being on Ceres instead of in space," Jonner pointed out. "They know Ceres' orbit, but they'd have to have several directional fixes on us, spaced several days apart, to pinpoint us if the ship were in space. What did Stein say the escape velocity here is?" Surprised at the unexpected question, Kraag consulted the notes Stein had left lying in the control room. "EV #I feet per second," he replied. "Not figuring on jumping off the planet, are you, Jonner?" "Maybe," said Jonner. "Well, don't wake me up if you do. I'm really going to pound the pillow tonight." Jonner laughed shortly, and Kraag heard the click as the captain switched off his helmet radio. He grinned. Kraag was asleep almost as soon as he hit the bunk. He came awake slowly, reluctantly, knowing he had not had all the sleep he needed. Something was pounding noisily somewhere, ringing through his head. He shook his head to clear it. For just an instant there was silence in the utter darkness. Then: Like a clap of thunder the noise reverberated through the metal hull of the sphere. Kraag started violently, and only the bunk straps kept him from rocketing to the ceiling. Again: And Kraag could feel the sphere shiver with the blow. He switched on the lights just as another terrific crash sounded. This time he could see everything on the central deck quiver with the impact. One of the four small ports around the central deck was mcovered, and the light threw a beam out into the blade night of the asteroid. It brought a temporary cessation of the regular blows. During the interval, Kraag unstrapped himself and tumbled up to the control room, to switch on the communications system. "Jonner!" he shouted. "Jonner, what in hell?" "I'm not deaf," said the loudspeaker resentfully. "Give me a chance to turn down my volume, if you're going to holler." "What the devil are you doing out there, Jonner?" "W'hat I promised you. I'm coming in after you." Kraag swore. "I'm going to blow you off the damned planet," he threatened, and leaped for the gun rack. "You'll have to come outside to do it," reminded Jonner. "If you try to shoot through the ports, you'll save me a lot of work." Kraag raced up and down the sphere twice before he had sense enough to turn out all the lights and use the searchlight. Then he located Jonner, clinging to the sphere outside the astrodome on the navigation deck. Jonner had a sledge hammer from the ship's cargo section in his hand. Jonner grinned at him and moved quickly out of the searchlight's beam. Ten seconds later, another thunderous crash sounded, apparently from the other side of the sphere. Kraag swung the light in a circle, but Jonner could move faster than the beam. Hastily, Kraag made another tour of the sphere, this lime closing all the metal covers over the ports. When he reached the control room, Jonner's voice was calling him over the loudspeaker, repeating his name every few seconds. "What do you want?" demanded Kraag, panting. "Just wanted to tell you I could have knocked out the astrodome or one of the ports before you woke up," said Jonner cheerfully. "I don't want to kill you, Kraag. I just want you to surrender, and if you don't I can eventually batter through the meteor shield and the hull, and ruin the sphere for you." "We'll see about that," gritted Kraag. Hurriedly he donned a spacesuit. Hanging Jonner's pistol at hb belt, he took a heat-gun in his right hand and a flashlight in hb left and ventured out through the airlock. He did not make the mistake of switching on the airlock light, but Jonner seemed to know when he emerged, possibly from the vibration when the lock opened. "Nice night out, isn't it, Kraag?" Jonner welcomed him. Kraag grunted. The night was black as pitch. The only way he could tell where the ground ended and the sky began was that the sky was jewelled with stars. He turned the light on and flashed it over the sphere. No sign of Jonner. But a rock struck his helmet and bounced off with a clang that nearly knocked him down and left him momentarily dizzy. "I'm behind you, Kraag," said Jonner pleasantly. "Better go back inside. I promise not to break your shell open tonight." Kraag twisted around and fired the heat-gun even as he searched for Jonner with the flashlight. Both beams pierced emptiness. Jonner just laughed at him. Afraid now that Jonner would get into the sphere, Kraag scuttled back around to the airlock. Heatgun ready, he turned on the light before closing the outer door, and breathed a sigh of relief at finding it empty. Trembling with reaction, he closed the outer lock, left the inner one open and made his way up to the center deck. He needed coffee. "I see you've gone back to the heat-gun," said Jonner. "That's smart." "You'd like to see me exhaust the fuel tank of your pistol shooting it in the dark, when I can't hit you, wouldn't you?" retorted Kraag. "No, thanks. I'll keep it for long distances." "Fuel tank? Oh, you mean the magazine." Jonner laughed. "I'd stay away from that old .# of mine if I were you, Kraag. It's been with me too long. It's a lot more likely to turn on my enemies than to do me any harm." "Rot!" snapped Kraag. "It's a gun. All I have to do is get the hang of aiming it properly." "I wouldn't use too much power tonight, either," warned Jonner. "You don't get much with the solar mirror this far out. Anyhow, I took the mirror off while you were having your nap. The batteries should give out in a few hours." Without answering, Kraag switched off his radio and removed his helmet. That last bit of information was a blow. Gradually, Jonner was stripping Kraag down to his own subsistence level. Power or not, Kraag was determined to have his coffee. But first he went over the sphere again and switched off all unnecessary lights. Jonner was a man who kept his word, but Kraag couldn't afford to trust him. Jonner might change his mind and try to break open the sphere again before morning. Kraag kept his spacesuit on. He did not sleep too well, for about once every # or # minutes something -- either a large rock or Jonner's sledge hammer -- would strike the sphere a resounding blow. it was morning, he opened the ports of the center deck and let the weak sunlight stream into the sphere. Off to the east, he saw Jonner digging with a pick from the cargo. Jonner was far enough away for his legs from the knees down to be hidden by the extreme curvature of the little planet. Kraag's first impulse was to go out and take a pot shot at him. Instead, he switched on the shortwave cooker and prepared some breakfast. Taking it up to the control room, where he could switch on the communications system, he opened the eastern port and watched Jonner. This high, he could see Jonner's feet and the hole he was digging -- and Stein's body. Jonner had taken Stein's body from the spot outside the sphere where Kraag had pushed it. He was burying Stein. Jonner finished his excavation and laid Stein gently to rest in it. He pushed rocks back in to fill it up, and wrested a boulder that would have weighed a ton over it for a monument. Then he murmured a brief prayer over the grave. Kraag was ashamed and then, tinaccountably, angry. But he stood at the port, drinking his coffee and watching Jonner, and said nothing. Either with chalk or with some soft rock he had found -- Kraag could not tell which -- Jonner wrote something on the big stone that was Stein's monument. Then he stood up and turned toward the sphere. "Kraag," he said. "Kraag, are you tuned in?" "Yes," replied Kraag shortly. "You have today to surrender. Tonight I'm going to hatch you out of your comfortable egg." Kraag switched off the communications system and paced the room, anger burning slowly inside him. This was ridiculous. He held all the cards. He had the guns, he had the sphere. Jonner was outside, weaponless, with a limited supply of food and water. Yet Jonner had him on the defensive. How had it happened? How could it happen? Kraag lit a cigarette and puffed at it slowly, applying his mind coldly to the situation. He didn't doubt that Jonner would do as he threatened, but he didn't think it was the recklessness of desperation. More likely, Jonner deliberately, calculatingly, planned to reduce his own chances for comfort, in order to bring Kraag down to more even terms with him. If Jonner broke the hull of the sphere, it could be repaired -- by someone working outside, free from interruption by an enemy. Until it was repaired, it would mean that Kraag, too, would have to live in a spacesuit. And Jonner might knock open a hole, or more than one, big enough to permit him to enter the sphere and attack Kraag in the darkness. If only he could surround the sphere with light at night, he could keep Jonner at a distance. But with the solar mirror gone, the searchlight, on top of the sphere's other electrical requirements, would discharge the batteries before the flight was half gone. Kraag knew Jonner's stubbornness, his resourcefulness, his raw courage. Jonner was the one of them who was really at bay, when you considered it. Yet Kraag felt that Jonner was closing in on him, gradually, inexorably. Facing this, Kraag felt the steel enter his own will. He wasn't a coward. He had just been expecting this to be too easy. If Jonner would force him to fight, he would fight. He still had the advantage. He must abandon the sphere as an asset. Jonner could take that away from him anyhow. On the other hand, if Jonner took over the sphere, Kraag could use the same weapxm against him. He could break open the sphere. So the sphere was no longer a factor. The food and water were no longer a factor, for food and water went with the sphere. He would admit Jonner to equality in those supplies -- not full equality, for he could provision himself now more fully than Jonner had been provisioned two Ceres days earlier. He still might pin Jonner down as Jonner tried to get to the sphere for more supplies. Then Kraag's remaining advantage lay in the guns. They should be enough. If he could get close enough to use a heat-gun, he could blast Jonner. Jonner's own projectile weapon would keep Jonner out of rock-throwing range, and sooner or later he would hit Jonner with it. He couldn't keep on missing; the law of average would give him a hit sooner or later. And all he needed was just one... Kraag provisioned his spacesuit and hung all three of the heat-guns at his belt. In one of the capacious outside pockets he put two spare flashlights and half a dozen of the extra fuel packets -- What was it Jonner had called them? Magazines, that was it -- for Jonner's projectile pistol. He took that pistol in hu right hand and sallied forth to do battle. Kraag shut the outer lock to make it appear he might be still in the sphere if Jonner happened not to spot him. He went over to Stein's new grave. Jonner had written on the stone: Angrily, Kraag burned the lettering off in a #-second blast with his heat-gun that left the face of Stein's gravestone cherry red. He turned to survey the terrain, and saw Jonner. The captain was crouched half a mile away, apparently writing more on a flat rock or on the ground itself. Jonner was facing him, but his head was down and he hadn't seen Kraag. If Kraag fired the projectile pistol, he probably would miss and might warn Jonner with the shot. He was sure of his accuracy with a heat-gun. Kraag took a heat-gun in his left hand and ran toward Jonner, Possibly the vibration of the ground warned Jonner. He looked up, jumped to his feet and Bed. As soon as he could stop and get hb feet planted firmly on the ground, Kraag fired the projectile pistol after him. He was still shooting low and to one side. Kraag picked himself up from the ground, where the backlash of the weapon had knocked him, and went up to the spot where Jonner had been writing. A mathematical problem had been scratched on the surface with a sharp rock. Kraag had interrupted Joimer in the middle of it. The figures that had been written were: #)#I Kraag stared at it, carrying out the rest of the simple mathematics in his head. The answer was #. But what was the problem? The figure "#" was familiar enough. It was the square root of two, carried to two decimal places. But what was Jonner dividing by it, and why? He frowned in concentration. There was something familiar about the numbers, something that had to do with him and Jonner, and Jonner wouldn't be working arithmetic just for amusement. He saw Jonner moving on the horizon, just his head visible against the black sky, his body hidden by the curve of the planet. Jonner was circling. The sudden realization of danger wiped other thoughts from his mind. Until he saw the epitaph Jonner had written for Stein, Kraag had thought Jonner looked at this as he did: one man against the other, and winner take all. But Jonner intended to win even if he lost, because Jonner was not fighting just for Jonner's survival but for due process of law. Jonner was trying to make certain that, even if Kraag killed him, Martian law would punish Kraag for Stein's death. And if Jonner got into the sphere, he could get his message to Marsport or the rescue ship simply by turning on the radio. Kraag turned and raced back to the sphere. He arrived, panting heavily. Jonner was nowhere in sight, but he knew Jonner, circling, could not have gotten there ahead of him. He must kill Jonner before nightfall, if he could, but he must not get far enough from the sphere to let Jonner slip in behind him. He was not ready, yet, to destroy the radio to keep Jonner from it. He walked around the sphere. There was Jonner on the other side, only his head above the horizon, moving clockwise. The sun flashed and gleamed from Jonner's helmet. There was no sense in shooting at so small a target as a head. A mile away, Jonner's whole body was a small enough target. A carefully gauged leap carried Kraag to the top of the sphere. Here, # feet higher, his range of view was increased considerably. He could see Jonner well. Jonner could see him, too. Jonner stopped to hurl a stone. It took a while for the missile to cover the distance. It passed below Kraag's level, some distance away from him. "Why don't you give it up, Jonner?" asked Kraag. "You can't hurt me with a rock, at this distance." "Why should I?" retorted Jonner. "All I have to do is wait tOl night." "Sure, wait. But I'm not waiting, Jonner. One of us is going to win this thing before night, or I'm going to blast the radio so you can't reach Marsport. If I have to do that. I'll track you down tomorrow -- and I think I can stay outside and fight you away from the sphere tonight." "Getting desperate enough to fight like a man now, aren't you, Kraag? If you want a showdown Kraag's mind was clear now. He had the situation under control. He glanced around the landscape at the scattered portions of the wrecked ship. There was the cargo hull, burst open, where Jonner had gotten his sledge hammer and the pick to bury Stein. Over there was a red sphere, ripped by the jagged gash of the meteor collision -- one of the two hydraine fuel tanks. The yellow sphere # degrees away from it was an oxygen fuel tank. Kraag leveled Jonner's gun and fired at the yellow sphere. The kick knocked him off the sphere, but as he somersaulted backwards he saw the projectile hit the ground. Still low and to one side. But he noticed something on the gun he hadn't seen before. There were ridges for sighting along the barrel of Jonner's pistol. Regaining his position atop the sphere, Kraag pressed his back against the obsersatory dome, to brace himself against the gun's backlash. He aimed carefully at the yellow sphere and fired again. The yellow tank jumped -- not from the impact, but from the spout of freed, expanding oxygen through the hole the bullet made. It moved and wobbled about in the weak gravity, like a dying balloon. When it stopped. Kraag knew he had destroyed half of Jonner's oxygen supply. "Good shot, Kraag," congratulated Jonner, with fatalistic irony in his tone. "Of course. I'm not as big a target as the tanks." "Each target in its own time," replied Kraag triumphantly, and looked around for the other yellow sphere. He had been afraid it might be one of the parts that had fallen over the horizon, but it wasn't. It was behind him, a little closer than the first. He hit it with one shot. Now Jonner had only the oxygen in his spacesuit tanks. Jonner had made no effort to move farther away. He was still visible on the horizon, from the knees up, moving in a great circle around die personnel sphere. Kraag aimed carefully and fired. He did not know the projectile's spieed, but certainly it would be much faster than Jonner's rocks. After half a minute had passed, he knew he had missed. There was only one thing to do. He settled himself and fired again, trying to lead Jonner slightly. Again he missed. Methodically, taking his time, Kraag fired. Jormer walked on unconcernedly, circling. Kraag tried to fire so the path of his projectile would strike at the top of Jonner's strides, for then Jonner rose several feet into the air and his whole body was visible. Occasionally, Jonner would stop and hurl a stone at Kraag. One man was as inaccurate as the other. Jonner's stones went wide at that distance, and Kraag obviously had not hit Jonner with a bullet. At last Jonner stopped. He seemed to be fiddling with something that was right on the ground, below Kraag's line of vision. Then a tremendous stone, bigger than Kraag's head, came hurtling toward the sphere. Kraag duck instinctively, but the missile passed # feet above him, still going well. "What in the devil!" exclaimed Kraag. "A little innovation of mine, to make things more interesting," said Jonner. "In case you ever want to use the idea, I made me a .superslingshot out of two of the jeep inner tubes from the cargo, and a couple of crowbars I could drive into crevices. Fixed it up yesterday for bombardment purposes." The duel went on. There came the time when the hammer of the pistol clicked on an empty chamber. "How do you refuel this thing, Jonner?" asked Kraag pleasantly. The sun was still high. He could retreat to the interior of the sphere and figure it out if he had to. "It's pretty hard to do with spacesuit hooks," replied Jonner. "Be glad to demonstrate, if you'll toss me the gun." Kraag laughed, a laugh with more triumph in it than humor, because in his fumbling he had just hit the button that ejected the magazine. To push in a fresh one was the matter of a moment. He had hoped Jonner would move in closer when he knew the pistol was empty, but no such luck. Jonner stayed put. Kraag's first effort with the new magazine brought no results, for he had neglected to prime the weapon by pushing the outer covering back on the barrel. He did this, and resumed his methodical firing. As the time wore on, Kraag began to appreciate the difficulties involved in hitting a moving target, even a slowly moving one, when the marksman was as inexperienced as he was. The trouble was that, at that distance, he could not see where the bullets were striking and had no way of knowing how wide of his mark he was shooting. He was on the fourth magazine and the sun had passed the meridian when he felt the sphere vibrate faintly and momentarily beneath him. He twisted around, alarmed. He could see nothing. It wasn't one of Jonner's rocks, because a big one had just missed. His eye detected a shining streak that stretched a few inches along the curve of the sphere's meteor shield, at about the level of his feet. He bent to examine it. Something had struck it at high speed, a glancing blow. It couldn't be one of Jonner's rocks. Small meteor? A jagged hole suddenly appeared in the observatory dome near him. Kraag moved up and examined it closely. It had been made by some small object. Through the glassite he could see a similar hole in the other side of the dome. Did Jonner have some sort of new weapon? He couldn't. Even Jonner wasn't resourceful enough to invent a high-powered weapon with the innocuous cargo they were carrying for the Titan colony. Something struck Kraag a powerful blow in the left chest, a blow that hurled him sideways, to tumble off the sphere and fall slowly to the ground below. There was a great pain in his chest, and he released his hand-hooks in agony, so that the pistol fell away from him. Kraag gasped for breath as he struck the ground and bounced. He coughed up blood. He fell slowly again, and bounced again. The third time he settled jarringly, prone on his back. He couldn't understand what had happened to him. He pulled his right arm inside the suit with an effort and probed the painful area on his chest. He felt the hot wetness of flowing blood. He would have to get to the sphere. He tried to move. He couldn't get off his back. He lay there and writhed in pain. Jonner's voice was in his ears, saying something. "I knew it would get you," jonner said. "It was my only chance. But it got you at last, Kraag." "Come help me, Jonner," whimpered Kraag weakly. "I've been hit by... I don't know. It must have been a meteor." "I'm coming as fast as I can, Kraag, but it was no meteor. It was my gun." "Gun?" repeated Kraag wonderingly. "I warned you about that gun of mine, Kraag. If you'd looked at the figures on the barrel, the muzzle velocity of those .#-calibre bullets is # feet a second. With Ceres' escape velocity, that's almost exactly the circular velocity at the asteroid's surface." Jonner was standing over him, and then was lifting him gently, to carry him to the sphere. "I deliberately got just out of your range of vision, from the ground, so you'd climb to a high spot," said Jonner. "You had to be high, so the bullet would clear the irregularities on the planet's surface, and I knew that sooner or later you'd shoot a bullet or two high enough not to hit the ground. "When you were firing at me, your bullets weren't describing a trajectory and failing to the surface, as they would on Earth or Mars. They were taking an orbit tliat brought them all the way around the planet to the same spot, to hit you from the other side two hours later." Kraag tried to look up at him. Something was going wrong with his right, and everything outride his face plate was a blur. Must be the oxygen... maybe his suit didn't seal the bullet bole properly. "I thought..." Kraag began, and choked. He coughed, slowly and painfully, then tried again: "I thought that... problem on the rocks... looked familiar." "You've always done it with a slide rule. That's probably why the long division didn't register," said Jonner. "The equation is one every spaceman knows: the circular velocity equals the escape velocity divided by the square root of two." in IP's first great Collegiate Science Fiction Contest with # in prizes going to the seven best answers to the question "What Will Life in America Be Like # Years from Now?" Ask your newsdealer to reserve your copy now! Dr. Kinsey, meet Mr. Grover, the amorous adventurer. Even in a world of polygamous sexual relations and legal multiple marriages, here is the nation's champion philanderer! like a goldfish in a coptcrcab. The plexiglass bubble a Horded full # degree vision, but people could also see you from the crowded traffic lanes above a big city. "Hurry," said Simon Grover, a small, energetic man with close-set hazel eyes and a stubljorn chin. "I'm hurrying," the pilot told him with frustrating indififercnce. In another few moments he would be safe. He squirmed around and saw another copter rise above the express lane and close the gap between them. It had never been this close before. The aquamarine roof of the Marriage Building loomed ahead, then swelled up at them. The other copter buzzed closer. "Don't see any landing space," the pilot said laconically. Simon squinted down anxiously. The copters were lined up in neat but crowded row's on the rooftop, with hardly more than walking space between them. "Hover," Simon pleaded. "I'll jump." "I could lose my license."Simon reached into his pocket and drew out a handful of bills. "This is important to me," he said. The pilot pocketed the money, then sw'ooped down toward the roof. Suspended grotesquely eight feet above the aquamarine surface, blades whirling, the coptercab hovered. Simon grunted his thanks and slid back the door. The other copter was fanning air above them and dropphig fast when Simon jumped. His left leg struck the side of a parked cab and threw' him off balance. He landed on his shoulder, rolled over and scrambled to his feet. He darted between the rows of copters, thankful for the partial protection their blades ofTcred him. A paraheam zipped down at the long shadow he cast in the late afternoon sun, but in another moment he had reached the roof entrance to the Marriage Building and flung himself inside. Breathing hard, lie smoothed his rumpled clothing with shaking hands. That had been entirely too close. They thought he was fleeing becau.se he did not want to work for a living. Rot. If he were ever captured, all the romance would go from his life. He sauntered down the long, pleasant corridor lined with murals of domestic tranquility -- family gathered around the dining table. Illustrated by Ed Emsh father and son raking leaves in the front yard, graceful elderly couple entertaining children and grandchildren at a merry hearth, young husband and wife going to bed. He was in no hurry now, for the Marriage Building was legal sanctuary. He passed the long lines of registering Quickies, men filing into one room, women into another. He let his glance rove the line of female Quickies, wondering if his new wife would come from this group. They ranged in age from eighteen to about sixty, he guessed, and naturally they were of all conceivable types. He caught himself in time and stopped looking. It was not considered proper etiquette. Rounding a turn in the corridor, Simon took the slidestair down one level to where Transients registered and attached himself to the end of a long line of men which was swallowed slowly by a doorway above which was the legend : Simon checked his counterfeit registration papers and was aware of the old, familiar feeling of uncertainty. His heart bobbed up into his throat and pounded there. His palms were clammy, his fingers wouldn't keep still. VV'ould the papers pass inspection? He was almost certain they would. But he savored the other possibility although he hated its ultimate consequences. As some people craved security, so others thrived on adventure. Simon lit a cigarct and waited while the line crawled forward, parallelling a line of female Transients moving through another doorway. "Sit down, Mr. Grover," the Counselor said as Simon entered the room. It was a large place with a central aisle and a dozen private cubbies on cither side, each one with celotex walls, a desk, two chairs, the latest in marriage literature, and a Counselor. Simon cased his small frame into a comfortable chair and handed his papers to the Counselor. "I see you have come from Philadelphia," the man said, smiling not quite professionally -- which, Simon knew, was the best of all professional smiles. "Were the accommodations .satisfactory? Of course, you don't have to talk about them." "They were fine. Just fine." Naturally, Simon did not tell the Counselor about his flight from the police. "How long will you be with us in New York?" "I figure about three weeks. It depends on business, though. Might be a little longer, I guess." "We'll say three weeks." The Counselor .scrawled something on .Simon's registration form. "Now, Mr. Grover, exactly what kind of wife arc you looking for?" "To tell you the truth, I haven't given it much thought yet." "Splendid," the Counselor was delighted with the opportunity to expound on his wares. ".As you know, we have six basic types." He removed six colorful folders from six stacks on his desk and handed them to Simon. "The first," he went on, "is the newlywed Quickie. The red folder, Mr. Grover. She has just completed her honeymoon, is not pregnant, and has been married for no more than six months." Simon examined the folder. On the cover was pictured a young man carrying his bride, complete with bashful smile, across the thre.shold of their home. There were suggestive dining room, patio and bedroom scenes inside, with appropriate captions. "The second type," explained the Counselor, "is the new mother." The folder showed a charming young woman Ineast-feeding an infant. The Counselor went on to the other types: the middle mother, a woman of about thirtywith two children, one of pre-school age and one in the first three grades; the teener, with from two to five children in their teens or early twenties; the pre-gram, with any number of married children living away from home, but no grandchildren; and the grandmother. "You understand," the Counselor said, "we have all types in between as well. These are merely the basics." He surveyed Simon's registration papers again. "You're thirty-five, Mr. Grover. A fine age, I might say. You'd be suited to any type, with the exception of the grandmother." "I don't want the grandmother, anyway," Simon told him. "You know, I think I'll take the newlywed this time." The Counselor winked knowingly. "Still a lot of get-up-and-go in the old copter, eh?" "It's spring," Simon said. "Yes. We find it most interesting, that certain types are favored in the various seasons. Newlyweds in the spring, pre-grams in the summer, middle mothers in the fall, new mothers and grandmothers in the winter. Confidentially, Mr. Grover, I've always longed to be a Transient myself. But you have to be a Quickie to hold this job, since you're in one place for such a long period of time. Well, what type of newlywed did you have in mind?" Simon licked his lips eagerly. In Philadelphia the last time he had come close to learning the parting ritual. But it tripped him up, as usual, and he reached New York one step ahead of tlie police. "She must be very impressionable," Simon said, "and very talkative. She must be eager to discuss the theories of multiple marriage -- " "Most newlyweds are," the Counselor pointed out. "Well, particularly so. And, of course, she must not be carrying a torch for her honeymoon husband." "That's rare these days, Mr. Grover." "It happened to me once, in St. Louis. Had an awful time." "Then she probably was a misfit. After all, the institution of multiple marriages is almost eighty years old, and the only form of marriage in the United States today. If we were still in the early pioneering days you might have cause to worry. Ideas of propinquity still seemed important then, and people were concerned with such things as lasting relationships, though for the life of me I can't see why." "They thought it was more secure," suggested Simon. "But it isn't. In the old days, statistics proved that if a man or woman was saddled with one mate too long, it often led to trouble. The old Et al report of # shocked the world with its figures: ninety five percent of all with other women, and the figure was almost as high for women. Relations with unmarried people. It's rather horrible, isn't it, Mr. Grover?" "I suppose so," said Simon, halflistening. All he needed now was the parting ritual. A nice, impressionable, talkative newlywed girl As usual," the Counselor continued in a dedicated voice, "man had leaped ahead of his outmoded institutions without realizing it. i The notion of marriage based largely on propinquity and permanent relationship just didn't fit the modern tempo of civilization, where transient workers dart across the continent constantly, always on the move, hardly staying in one place long enough to hang their hats, as the expression goes. Marital infidelity in the old days led to crimes of passion, to divorce, to unsettled families, to children reared in orphanages or by strangers -- perfect strangers, mind you -- to divorce and re-marriages and so much energy and time and money wasted on second and even third courtships. "Fortunately, the social institution fits the tempo of the culture today. A Transient -- man or woman -- gets married and provides for one spouse, one family, but has the pick of the nation to choose from. Even a Quickie like myself is stimulated by constant variety and change. No one is ever bored. You don't have to see your original mate ever again, as long as you, as a Transient, provide for her. The Quickies, in their turn, will provide for you in all your subsequent marriages. You have the novelty and sati.sfaction of a true change in environment every time you travel, but you also have the comfort and .security of a home." "This newlywed girl must also be naive," said Simon. "That's important." The Counselor made another notation. "You know," he said, "there is one small school of thought which claims the novelty, the verve and sparkle aie lacking because the constant variation is perfectly legal. Perhaps they have a point there; secrecy is stimulating. But they refuse to admit we even provide for that. After all, a Transient assumes the name of his temporary spouse, his Quickie. No one, not even the Quickie, know's his real identity. The Marriage records are available to no one, not even the government, not even the police, thus preseiving the .sense of -- well, freshne.ss for the Transients. "But I digress. Have you any physical preferences, Mr. Grover?" "I'm not very tall. Keep her down to my size, please. And I want a pretty wife." The Counselor made his final notations, rolled Simon's registration papers and stuffed them into a pneumotube which he droppcd into a wall slot. The tube, Simon knew, was being whisked to Quickie Records, Newlywed Division, where identification of the girl fitting his requirements would Ire made by the machine records unit of available newlyweds. Last time, in Philadelphia, he had selected a garrulous old grandmother and hated every moment of the two weeks he had spent with her. It had been against the recommendations of the Counselor there, who had claimed the age difference would not make for harmony. The man had been right, but worse yet, the old hag had been too wily to reveal what Simon had to know. "Congress is considering a law," said the Counselor as they waited for the return of Simon's registration papers, "which would permit Quickies and Transients to alternate year after year. It would cause social upheaval at the beginning, but it's only fair to us Quickies, don't you think?" Simon shrugged. The man was starting to bother him. "I'd rather be a Transient," he said. "I'm for the status quo." "But Quickies have no choice in the matter, don't you see? We have to marry whoever comes along. My last wife -- " "As a Quickie, you're not supposed to talk about her." The Counselor blanched at what had almost amounted to a sin. "Thank you," he said, and waited in silence for the pneumotube. Finally, it came, popping out of the wall slot and alighting on the desk. The Counselor removed Simon's papers and unrolled them, revealing a set of similar papers rolled tightly within. These he opened and spread on the desk, beckoning Simon to come around behind him and take a look. The first thing Simon saw was the snapshot, in the latest trivision process. The girl looked pretty enough, with a pale, heart-shaped face set off against short-cropped, shining black hair. She had enormous, child-like eyes. "How do you do?" the picture said. "I am Jane-Marie Paige. I miss you." "See," said the Counselor, "she has a lovely voice." Simon nodded, picked up the trivision snapshot and held it under his nose, sniffing delicately. He liked the scent of Jane-Marie's perfume -- not too musky, not too flowery, but that ideal compromise which indicated she would be neither too sultry nor too fragile. The Counselor wrote in Simon's name on her pajjers, printing "approx. # wks" under the column for time, and handed both rolls to Simon. "Her address is in the second column," he said. "Visit us again on your next trip to New York, Mr. Grover. And good luck." B y the time Simon took the tubeway out to the suburban Long Island community in which Jane-Marie Paige lived, the bright spring afternoon was fading into dusk, tinting the western sky with bands of color ranging from deep blue and purple through mauve to delicate, dusty pink. The smell of spring was in the air, but with the coming of night the lingering chill of winter was still apparent. It would be great, coming home again to a new wife, to a drink and an excellent home-cooked dinner, to a cozy fire perhaps -- especially when you could have all that and still retain the pulse-quickening feeling of adventure. Whistling, Simon found Maple Lane and walked by the rows of spherical houses which could rotate with the sun from equinox to solstice and back again. Simon could tell it was a development of newlywed homes by their small size, by the absence of baby carriages and toys on the front lawns, by the small clumps of white birch trees and windows with their curtains drawn. He found the address listed on Jane-Marie's registration papers and turned up the walk, noticing the small, ranch-type name j)ost with "Mr. and Mrs. Jane-Marie Paige" on it in big gold letters. "It's Simon," he said as the door slid soundlessly into the curving wall. "I'm home." Suddenly, Jane-Marie appeared there in tlie doorway. She must have been at one of the curtained windows, peeking out at him. There were soft lights behind her and a delicate halo circled her dark hair from the raditiara she wore. "Simon," she said, barely above a whisper, a radiant smile on her face. "They called me. Come in, darling." But she still barred the doorway. When he came in he came into the arms of his waiting wife, his newlywed wife, his Jane-Marie. "I missed you ever since they sent your picture," she breathed, while he kissed the lobes of her ears, the tip of her nose, her eyes, her warm, eager lips. "Jane-Marie," he said. It was sensed. It was more than that to ing, worth all the quick exits and close calls with the police. "You'll muss me," Jane-Marie scolded him, drawing away and rearranging her hair under the tiara. "There. Are you hungry?" "Honey, I'm famished." "Well, I'm making no promises. I'm not much of a cook, really. They didn't tell me how long you were going to stay, but I should improve enough so when the next -- " "Sh. I'll be here three weeks." "Come in, come in." She took his hand in her own warm one, pressing the door button and dimming the hall light as they walked into the house. "Tell me about yourself, darling. What do you do? How are you going to spend your time in New York? Oh, I'm so excited. There's so much to talk about, so much to learn about each other. Do you play bridge? There's a couple down the street, the wife's a Transient and just got here today, but I know the husband, who likes to play bridge. Do you like music? I'll turn some on." She was talkative, all right. Soon Simon heard the lilting strains of a Strauss waltz. Jane-Marie pirouetted happily about the dining room table in three-quarter time and sat down, motioning Simon to sit near her and not on the other side. As he adjusted his napkin she leaned her head on his shoulder and said, "I like your eyes, darling." He smiled. "They're close-set." "They are not. They're very intelligent-looking. I'll bet you're an engineer or something. I'll bet you're going to help design that new construction project in Brooklyn. Gee, I like your eyes." She gazed up at them demurely. The robot server wheeled in the first course along with a frosted bottle of champagne leaning gracepopped the cork expertly, filled both glasses and raised his. "To us," he said. "To us, darling. Forever and ever three weeks. I hope you like chopped liver salad," Jane-Marie added nervously. "I had no way of knowing, but from now on you'll get whatever you like, I promise." "It's delicious," Simon said, beginning to eat. Other courses followed. There was jellied consomm#, roast, stuffed chicken and sweet potato pudding, a salad which Simon tossed with an enthusiasm and expertness that Jane-Marie said was a joy to behold, dessert of brandied bing cherrles, coffee and pie. And a constant stream of chatter from Jane-Marie. "Well," said Simon, patting die bulge at his waistline and sliding his belt-clasp an inch or two looser with the comfortable informality only a married man can display (and in his own home, thought Simon). "I must say that was good." "I'm so glad you liked it. Do you want to sit around the fire and talk, dear?" She flavored the term of endearment once more. "Dear." The robot server had begun to remove the dishes from the table. Simon stood up and was followed by Jane-Marie into the sunken living room, where he began to pile wood and kindling on the andirons in the raised-hearth fireplace. As she bent to watch him, the decollete hostess gown revealed a breathless amount of lovely white skin. "Maybe we'll retire after that," Simon said, trying not to sound the way he felt, which was more than mildly lecherous. Jane-Marie smiled a secret, small-girl smile and pulled him down on the cushion in front of the hearth, on which a bright fire was now crackling. "It's so good to have you home, darling, all to myself. Will your work keep you away much? I hope not." "To tell you the truth, I'm on vacation." "That is nice," Jane-Marie murmured dreamily. "And flattering, too, because you selected me to share your vacation." "Could it be anyone but you?" Simon said. "As if it could be anyone but you." Which was perfectly, beautifully, delightfully true -- for three weeks. "You married rather young, I see." Jane-Marie stroked his temples witli long fingers. "Oh, now, don't be so sure," she smiled. "Maybe I'm older than I look." "No. You're about twenty. I guess you like marriage." "I love it. It's too early to tell, but -- well, it agrees with me." "I'm glad." "Glad of what, darling?" "That you married early. Come here." She came and sat in his lap. He blew in her ears and at the short hairs on the nape of her neck until she laughed. "I love you," she said. "I love you so." He loved her too. It was right. She was the girl he had selected. But a sense of urgency swept over him, not only for the love they would consummate as the night grew longer, but for what he hoped to learn from her so he could have the name as well as the game -- as well as that feeling of adventure which sharpened his senses so acutely. He said, "Do you ever think of the times before multiple marriage became the accepted social institution? Do you ever think of how those people must have felt?" "I knew you were an intellectual!" Jane-Marie cried instead of answering his question. "I just knew it. I could see it in your eyes, darling. Oh, I do love you." He kissed her tenderly, then with fire. He could feel the passion mounting between them, but tore himself from its grasp. "Don't you ever think of it?" he asked again. "Well, I read a book about it once, Murray's The Decline of Monogamy. They must have felt simply awful, darling. I mean, I love you, but to have to spend all that time, season after season, year after year, svith the same person would -- would drive you crazy. You'd get to know him so well, everything he did, the way he thought and all. Oh, with you it's different. I could spend forever with you three weeks, but -- " "No, Honey. I mean the others. The outcasts. Those who carried on adulterous relationships." Jane-Marie frowned in thought. He could tell the conversation interested her but thought she would have preferred to drop it. Still, the conversation was flowing more smoothly than he had dared hope, and in the right direction. "I don't know," Jane-Marie finally admitted. "I suppose they were pioneers, sort of. I mean, flaunting social custom the way to fight for a better way of life." "I agree with you," Simon said. "Sometimes convention restricts you and doc.sn't allow you to live the fullest life. You should then flaunt convention by all means, don't you think?" "I do. I do." He sighed gratefully. The seed had been planted. He now had to cultivate it for three weeks. A word here, a gesture there, a suggestion, twenty-one days of marital bliss, of gaining her confidence, of impressing her with everything he did. "Well," he said, "shall we go upstairs?" He watched the color rise from Jane-Marie's throat and soon .suffuse her face. "I was thinking Mr. and Mrs. Busby might want to play some bridge -- " "There are other nights," he said. He scattered the embers of the burning logs with the poker and went into the dining room after the bottle of champagne. With Jane-Marie at his side he climbed the stairs. T he shower had stopped. He could hear Jane-Marie humming to herself in a nervous falsetto. He didn't know whether to get under the covers or not, and finally decided Jane-Marie would be more at ease if he did. He had already combed his hair and brushed his teeth. At last, she came. She was lovely, his wife, in a daring black negligee. She stood there in it for a long, wonderful moment, then plunged the room into darkness. You could be a newlywed over and o-er again, Simon thought happily. You could taste the joys of brand new parenthood not once but a hundred times. You could see the kids off to school on that memorable first day as often as you liked, see your grandchildren that first glorious time through the glass window also as often as you wi.shed, or taste many times of an old, established relationship which was yet mysteriously new, despite the gray hairs and conditioned familiarity. It was a full life, but something was lacking. Did it make him a misfit? Probably, but he had his own life to lead, his own fulfillment to achieve, his own strange kinship with the early rebels who had blasted monogamy from the pages of social history. "You'll think this is silly," JaneMarie whispered in the darkness. "What's that, dear? What will I think is silly?" "What I'm going to ask you." "No I won't. Honest." "Well -- " "Go on, if it will make you happy." He could sense her presence near him. "Well, it isn't that I don't trust you, but there's so much of it going on lately that I thought -- " "What did you think?" "The -- the parting ritual. You know what it's for, darling. A safeguard." Simon plunged from zenith to nadir in seconds. He would never spend those three weeks with JaneMarie. He would be running again, running until he could board the tubeways in anonymity from the basement of a Marriage Building in some other city. But it had never happened so quickly before. "Can't it wait for three weeks?" he asked, knowing the request was futile. "Then it's hardly a safeguard for me, just for -- for the next one. It's just lately that all those misfits have Started... I guess some people will never be satisfied." Her hand touched his hand in darkness. There were finger movements. She began to chant meaningless syllables. This was it, Simon knew in despair. He could not respond. It was a simple thing, but people were sworn to absolute secrecy. It was changed every few months and he had never been able to learn it. A sob escaped JaneMarie's lips. Simon," she gasped. "Simon, you aren't... you're not doing... "No," he said wearily. He sat up quickly in the darkness, and dressed. He could hear her reaching for the phone. He stood up and went to her, but she turned away. "Don't you touch me. Go away, leave me alone. Of all the despicable... and I thought... I almost... Hello, police? This is Mrs. Jane-Marie Paige on Maple Lane. I want to report..." "Goodbye," he whispered softly. "I hate you!" He left quickly, double-timing down Maple Lane between the rows of spherical houses. He didn't belong. He was an outlaw, a criminal, a maladjusted misfit -- or worse. Some people are never satisfied. The police failed to understand. To them his type was lazy, shiftless. They were drones, parasites who could reap all the advantages of multiple life without working a day. They had no one to support. But that isn't it at all, thought Simon as he ran. He could hear the approaching wail of police sirens. He must hurry. Perhaps in Boston he would get the one stroke of luck he needed, if the police didn't catch him first. It wasn't that he was lazy and lacked the sense of responsibility which would make him support a family. Everything was too patterned, too set-out-foryou, too prosaic. In his own way he courted danger and was hated for relationship which he supposed some people always needed. He could picture pretty JaneMarie crying out the whole story to the police. "That man -- he was a bachelor!" ... Money Is the Root of All Good Urgent! Class A A emergency for Universal Relief! Stock market crash on planet Lyrane, where people live by economy based on good deeds. Cause unknown. Suspect galactical manipulators of watering stock. Illustrated by Ed Emsh tic Empire, is not, as one would cxfDcct, one solid city. As a matter of fact, it is more surburban and rural than many farming planets. The reason is obvious if but considered. The galactic government and the equally large galactic businesses arc so immense that they must he distributed throughout the whole galaxy, with only the very cream of the hierarchy located on Kalgor. Thus, each company would have only one small building -- but with a communication web that enfolded macroscopic enterprises. Universal Relief Incorporated was typical of this arrangement. Although its warehouses and offices throughout the Empire could form a megalopolis in themselves, the fountainhead on Kalgor was a two story building. In that building there was excitement. People were rushing frantically -- the teletypes chattered in a frenzy -- the air was static with urgency. It manifested itself in the quick jerky motions, in the voices held just below the cracking point. Universal Relief scived the function that used to be handled by the Red Cross. They were disaster rectifiers, succor and reconstruction was their business. But they were a business -- declaring annual, taxable profits and dividends and, in general, a profit-seeking firm. They received regular payments from planetary governments, much like premiums with insurance, and in case of emergency they were to provide complete relief as swiftly as possible. There was no chance for graft in their business, for they were closely checked by the government and competing organizations like Galactic Aid, their closest rival. This business was now apparently faced with a crisis and its staff was feverishly trying to cope with it. Roald Gibbons, President of Universal Relief, was the only person not affected -- at least not apparently. His indolent posture, his quiet grey eyes reflected nothing of the hectic activity. This made Kim Roger ners'ous. "I don't think you comprehend the seriousness of it, Mr. Gibbons," he was saying. "I am not thinking of the seriousness of it. I just want the facts." "Very well, sir. Two days ago, the Lyranian stock market crashed." "You will have to go back further than that. I can't possibly know the history of all the planets in the Empire. That's what I pay you for. Give me some background." This little speech made Kim lose his clutching hold on his patience. Roald Gibbons had just taken office after the death of his father, who had managed the galactic firm for twenty years. By merely being the boss's son, Roald had achieved the reputation of being an ignorant, careless playboy. His professed ignorance of the planets confirmed, in Kim's mind, this reputation. With an effort, Kim resumed. "The planet of Lyrane, the only habitable one in the system of Lyrane -- Copernicus sector -- was colonized by a socio-economic sect for the purpose of testing its slightly radical beliefs. "This sect maintained that an individual should not be paid on the basis of the work he did, but for the good deeds, or good thoughts he had. A small stipend was paid for actual work or production, to establish a workable basic economy and trade. This stipend was enough to cover all the basic wants of the individual. "To procure luxuries, a citizen had to use the money he received for his good deeds or thoughts. Every time a man helped an old lady across the street, or came up with a bit of philosophical wisdom, he could record it with a central office and receive his luxury pay from the government. "The purpose of the system was to make people emphasize virtue and quality in their lives. Instead of concentrating on profit for profit's sake, they would hav'c to consider the inherent rightness and beauty of what they were doing." "In such a system," Roald asked, "how could such a thing as a stock market possibly develop?" "Very simple, .sir. This luxury pay, issued in a different currenev than the commodity pay, could be used in any way a person saw fit. Some people naturally developed the idea of investing stock in a particularly virtuous or intelligent person. Every time that person ffid a good deed, the stockholders received a dividend from his luxury pay. All of the scientists and philosophers, therefore, became corporations in themselves, with as many as five thousand people holding stock in one man." "Sorr', Kim, but I don't get it. How' could these incorporated individuals get any luxuiy pay for themselves if they had to hand it out to their stockholders?" "The administration w-ould allow for that. A person received luxury pay in proportion to the number of stockholders that he claimed. The government had to do this since they indirectly were investing in these corporation men -- but I'll explain that later. "The corporation-man lived off the original investments of stockholders, with some of the stock solvent for sales. In this way, the individual would profit from "gooddoing" by receiving many new investments." "What is the social makeup of this Lyrane? It seems to me it would be a lunatic fringe de luxe, with every hack writer, thaumaturgist, or evangelist climbing aboard the gravy train." "On the contrary, it is a social structure of the finest minds in the galaxy. The rest are all weeded out. Although the motives of the system are idealistic, they are enforced witli a rigid practicality. They demand quality and truth, and gauge it with the revealing yardstick of public consumption and approval as measured in sales and polls." Roald gazed out at the pastoral countryside surrounding tliis vital ness. He swung back to Kim, and said, "But the basic difficulty would be determining ju.st what a good deed or thought is. How in God's name could they determine that, when every' act or word that anyone ever commits or utters is open to judgment by so many different standards. For instance, what about the case of the man w'ho trespasses to save a person's life. How are you going to rate diat sort of thing?" "Mr. Gibbons, I am an economist, not a philosopher. It is the wonder of the gala.xy that these people did establish and maintain tills system, in spite of obstacles such as you mentioned." "All right, we'll discount the philosophical angle. I still don't understand it. How about big business? How could that develop with this system? They certainly need it to support a planet." "That's the easiest part of it. People would use their luxury pay to establish businesses. At these businesses men could work their five hours a day to get their commodity pay. It was not only possible, but mandatory that such businesses develop. There were two types: mass production of commodities, with a regulated profit in commodity pay; or specialization and production of fine merchandise that was sold at cost, but whicli die government paid for in luxury pay in proportion to its quality as thoroughly tested. "However -- all big businesses were closely controlled by the government. They would grant franchises so that there would be no cutthroat competition, and supply was regulated to meet demand. Therefore, business itself was stable, and there was'no opportunity for speculating in its stock market. That left only the variable corporation-men for actual stock market trading -- and that is what crashed. "Let's take a writer, for example. He writes a book, and a publishing house prints it. The people buy it -- spending luxury pay. The publishing house has to convert that luxury pay to commodity pay to cover costs and payroll. They make no profit, the book being sold at cost. "That book has to sell so many thousand copies to receive luxury pay from the government. Then both the author and the publisher receive luxury pay in proportion to its sales, which is the indication of its merit. The luxury pay that the publisher receives goes in the pockets of the executives. The luxury pay that the author receives -- which is much larger -- goes to his stockholders. "Since the author is the source of this transaction, the people invest in him and not the publisher, for they can't get any great return from investing in the publisher, but they can from the author. "Actually, what the whole thing amounts to is a complete shift of emphasis from big business and its .speculations -- which is what we've always known -- to individuals and the intangibles and variables of their ideas and deeds."  "There is only one question left," Roald said. "The government doles out all this luxury pay. Pray tell, where do they get it?" "There arc two parts to the government. There is the actual administration, with its members drawing set salaries and unable to draw luxury pay, to prevent graft; and then there is the Economics Commission, which controls luxury py"This Economics Commission is a business. They invest in galactic corptorations, such as ours, and make a profit. That's part of their money. Then -- and here's the secret -- any time a book is written, or fine merchandise produced, it must be sold on Lyrane at cost. But the government sells it throughout the galaxy for a profit, and keeps that profit to redistribute in luxury pay to Lyranian citizens. "Anyway, the system finally blew up, and now we're holding a messy bag." "But how could it? Why?" "That's just it. Nobody knows what brought it about, but suddenly the men who were corporations just stopped producing. They stopped doing good deeds, stopped writing, stopped research, and what-not and, consequently, stopped drawing luxury pay. "Naturally, their stockholders got mad and wanted to sell, but incorporated men couldn't liquidate and the values of the stocks dropjjed to zero, along with the value of the luxury pay. The result was a depression and a lot of angry people." "A planetary depression is not such an outstanding emergency that it should cause Universal Relief to be in such an uproar. I believe that it is merely a Class B emergency, with complete regulations on proper handling." Kim was so earnest in his reply that he leaned over and almost rubbed noses with his superior. "On the contrary, sir. There are other factors, so its not so simple. This Lyranian system has been working for ten years now, and the Lyranians want desperately for it to succeed. They are almost fanatics on it, trying to prove the value of their .system .so that other planets will adopt it -- which God forbid. "Naturally, the resentment against the corporation-mcn for betraying them has turned into hatred, with murder, riots and a civil war in the offing. Yes, their politics were unitary and stable until this emergency, but you'd be surprised at the number of political factions that can be formed and develop hostilities in a period of crisis." "Could it be an attempt by some faction to seize power?" "Impossible. The way it was set up, political power was not desirable, being unprofitable and mostly drudgery'. If they upset the applecart, the balance was so fine only chaos would result and there would be nothing to take power over. The only reason parties have developed now is due to differing views on how to rectify the situation, and blaming different things for being responsible. But no power motive." "Very well then, the situation is a Class A emergency, but we've handled them before." Kim allowed one fleeting sigh of despair. He had thought for a while that this Roald could take hold, could be competent, but -- "If you have ever consulted our financial records, sir," he said with heavy sarca.sm, "you would find that our largest contribution comes from Lyrane. They have established our organization as tops in the good-deeds field, and nearly every person on Lyrane has stock in us, along with a sizable payment since we threw a high premium at them, fearing just this eventuality." Roald appeared thoughtful, then said, "Well, continue with standard procedures for a Class A emergency. I'll .see what can be done." Kim made one last desperate appeal. "I firmly believe that this should be a Class AA emergency!" "Your field of specialization is overriding your business sense, Kim. You arc fascinated, as an economist, by this Lyrane system, and you would like to see us put it back on its feet so you economists would have a live experiment to observe. I'm sorry, but it isn't practical. You know how fantastically expensive a Class AA is, and no one planet is about to get it." Kim cowered mentally. This wasn't the indolent playboy, but the Old Man, giving him a good dressing down. He left the office with restored faith, but a faith that was interlaced with doubt in regard to Roald Gibbons. Roald appeared to Kim to be uninformed and incompetent ; but on the contrary, he had learned the business thoroughly from his father. There was one division of the company that he knew especially well. This division was known to only a few people in the company, and no one outside knew it existed. Roald managed this special division, and left the rest of the management to the routine procedures and junior executives. while the rest of the company was in a state of organized hysteria, with great ships loading from the massive warehouses of food, medicine, and other relief supplies, and heaving into the sky bound for Lyrane, Roald was having a quiet conference with the members of his special division. Roald's father had known that the cheapest way to relieve an emergency was to alleviate the causes behind it, unless it were a natural disaster. For this reason, he had organized a corps of special agents to penetrate behind the scenes to straighten out the causes and cut short the emergencies that Universal Relief had to pay for. "Apparently there is a definite force operating on Lyrane," Roald was saying to his elite corp, "that caused these men, who had been living by the standards of that civilization and becoming rich from it, to cease the activity which they had profited by." "Could it be a religious doctrine?" one of them asked. "Possibly. It could be anything. The fact is wc don't know -- and we should. So we're going to Lyrane. For the Main Office, this is a Class A; but for us it is a Class AA!" stone terrace of the mountain lodge, gazing out over the small valley with the golden orange sun of Lyrane setting behind the mountains. The cool evening breeze gently rearranged his white hair and brushed over the creased forehead and the worried eyes. He looked up to see his daughter come out on to the terrace. She was a comely young woman of slight build and apparently sensitive nature as vivified in her piquant features. He gave her a wistful smile, at which she rushed into his arms and buried her head in his shoulder, which was still powerful despite his age. Her body quivered with muffled sobs. "Yma, my dearest Yma," he said tenderly. "Why didn't you marry, so that you would have none of this? You could be leading your own life, instead of bearing my burden." "You are no burden, Father. You are my life. And now that your life is threatened -- " He knew what had upset her. He had heard the newscasts too -- yes, the video still operated, controlled by the people. He had heard the names of his old friends -- Fredrikson, Tomlin, Masschau -- all dead by violence. "Why do you keep silent?" his daughter asked with a little child's pleading. "Where is the protection you were offered? Why don't you tell the people?" The world was mad and destructive in the eyes of the child -- the woman who was a child in the face of this dilemma. He gently quieted her with a large, steady hand that pressed her head to him. "It would do no good. Arnson tried it." She looked up with hope in her eyes. "He spoke to a special meeting of his stockholders and tried to tell them. They scorned it as a wild fantasy to excuse his betrayal. They issued him an ultimatum -- work! He said that they would have to believe him ; he couldn't work. They killed him." The hope slid away and her eyes assumed the depths of despair and bitterness. Despair for the future, and bitterness for the past. And she thought of the past -- for she dared not think of the future. Where does violence start, she wondered. Trace it to its roots; what's its source, what's its manifestation? It starts with one man and an idea. Many men may have had the same idea, but it takes one man to express it at the right time, to apply it. Then the planning, by many or by one. And, finally, the last step is persuasion. The man who had the original idea must convince others. He must indoctrinate them with this new concept so that they believe. No more. For once a man, who has been a stable entity in a stable organization, develops and believes a strange and contradictory idea -- the result is inevitable. Misunderstanding, resentment, hate, violence. The cycle carries on from there with its own momentum. And the people who arc swept up in it, and that may include anyone from the most innocent to the perpetrator himself, are as helpless to control its outcome as are the atoms helpless to control the nova they started in a sun. So this violence on Lyrane had begun, with one man, then a group of men, and then had come the misunderstanding, resentment, hate, violence cycle. It manifested itself in the offices of Universal Relief as a logical study in sociology and economics. But to Yma Garbin and her father, it was pure hell. When had it all started, and when would it end? Did it start that first day when an orphanage in the capital city burned to the ground, and not one of the many philanthropists made a move or an offer to aid or restore ? Yes, that was when it started for the public, but it had really started in midnight conversations in locked rooms. Words, an idea, then the act -- and who is to say which is more real? But there was no questioning the reality of what she had seen at Tomlin's house. That was yesterday. Tomlin, the greatest living biochemist in the empire, was nothing but a sad, huddled corpse. His beautiful mansion was slashed and looted, and then fired to the ground. The air was filled witli the odor of burning, of death -- but especially the mentally sickening, defeating odor or violence. This was true of the whole planet, especially in the cities. The great houses beseiged by furious mobs, shattered. Night full of stray shots and casual death. Every man with that cold gleam in his eye when he looked at even his best friend. "Did you cause it?" Yma lay in her father's arms, her mind reeling through this wax works of personal horror and death. This scene was interrupted by a gyro landing on the lawn. his daughter, tensely. A man emerged and strode towards them. He was a young man, with good and intelligent features, and Erol felt no fear. "Dr. Garbin," the man addressed him, "I'm delighted to find you. I tried to see others -- I was always too late." He paused, then said, "If anyone should 'be able to tell me what has happened, you should." A slight suspicion showed in Erol's face while Yma looked as wary as an animal. "If I can help you in any way, sir, I shall be delighted," Erol said. The young man sat down. His eyes told of bewilderment and horror, and Erol guessed that he had been in the cities. "My name is Florin Brite," the man said after a long silence. "I was a student of Tomlin, the biochemist, who was, I believe, your friend. I left over a year ago to study at the Institute of Klynos. I heard of trouble here and grabbed the first ship home. "I never dreamed I'd find such violence. "When I tried to find out what happened, I only found that all the great men that I knew were murdered, or in hiding." "How did you find where I was?" Erol asked. "I talked to one of Tomlin's servants, an old fellow -- scared silly -- but he remembered me and he told me." Erol seemed to accept this. "What do you want to know?" "Sir, I just want to know what happened. Why do the people feel they have been deceived, and by whom? Why are all the incorporated men in danger of their lives?" "It is the corporation men who' have deceived the public." It was a flat statement by Erol, without rancor or sympathy. "They are, in consequence, subject to the wrath of the people who relied upon them." The bewilderment in the young man's eyes deepened. "How could they deceive the public? Why? They had everything to gain from earning luxury pay for their stockholders. Why did they stop?" As if at a signal, Erol relaxed and his weariness became evident. Yma relaxed somewhat but remained alert. "Why they did," Erol replied, "is a private matter that only each of those men knows. The fact is that they, myself included, did -- and now we must pay." "You sir? But you were always such an eminent figure. I've admired you from childhood as being one of the best of the planet's many scientists. Your researches in sociology have led the empire. Why should you suddenly stop your writing?" "Fine flattery, son, but it will not avail you. I also see that you are not completely in the dark. You must have been investigating or you wouldn't know that I have a half-finished book that never got to the publisher on time. "Anyway, the reasons are inconsequential, now. It is done, and we must consider the consequences. And we must consider you. What do you intend to do, return to Klynos, or stay here?" "You don't get out of it that easily," Florin said. "Yes, consider me. Consider me as a citizen of this planet, a believer in its principles. I am no idiot that can't understand or won't accept the truth. "You are a sociologist. Here we have one of the most paradoxical sociological situations imaginable on our planet. There obviously are many unknown factors. You know them -- you must. Just consider me a student and explain the functionings of these phenomena." "You try my patience, Mr. Brite. I am accepting you at face value, but you are a stranger to me. What I wish to keep to myself is entirely my business. As I say, I am accepting you, and trying to help you -- as we all must do in this mess. Now what do you intend to do?" With a fatalistic shrug, Florin replied, "I cannot go back to Klynos. My education was paid for by my stock in corporation-men here. That is now, as you know, worthless." Yma spoke to him for the first time. "Then don't you feel resentment towards the men who -- who betrayed you?" Her eyes awaited his answer. Florin smiled. "I do not feel that I have been betrayed. I know that the corporation-men, representing the most intelligent clement of Lyrane, wouldn't do this thing without a sound reason." Erol said, "Apparently you wish to throw in your lot with us, rather than the mob." "My loyalty to my teacher and his associates compels me to do so. It is also my personal desire." "You won't get any luxury pay for that loyalty," Yma snapped. "That's unfair. You know Tomlin always advocated proper living from a moral obligation rather than for mercenary reward." Their conversation was interrupted by a faint humming. Out over the valley three gyros were approaching at a low altitude. Bitterly, Yma said, "Apparently Tomlin's servant has talked to other people -- or perhaps Mr. Brite here -- ." Florin shrugged again. "I have no defense except to say that I talked to no one. Either you believe me or you don't." Erol chimed in, "You'll have to excuse my daughter; she's upset. I expected them to discover me long before this. This abandoned hunting lodge was too well known." Yma's mind jumped on that. Yes, she thought. How well it is known -- to me. My childhood is stuffed full of memories of this place, all pleasant. I know the woods around here better than the streets of the city. Now it will be the scene of this furtive hiding, suspense, and God knows what new violence. While she was thinking, Erol was still talking. "I will ask you, since you are young and more adept in this sort of emergency. What shall we do?" Florin glanced at Yma, and saw that the bitterness had left her in the face of danger. She too looked anxiously to him for help. "If we stay here," he said, "we will be killed without question. I have no doubt that those ships are part of the mob. Even if it is the police, and I doubt there are any left after the rioting, they will imprison us." Erol said, "This is a hunting lodge. There are some weapons here. We have nothing but your gyro to escape in, and it's too slow. I can see that those are police gyros." "Then we'll fight," Yma declared and rushed inside, with Florin and Erol following her. "This place is not much for defense," Florin said while they rummaged for rifles, fot nothing more deadly was allowed outside the hands of the Galactic Patrol. "I suggest we make it seem peaceful and surprise them." "Good idea, boy," Erol said. "If you want. I'll sit outside as a decoy." "That's great!" Florin said quickly, ignoring Yma's protest. "If they see you, they will probably land and talk; but if nobody's in sight, they might bomb us." The three worked well together, swiftly and efficiently. Erol sat on the veranda, in the open, with a pistol under a lap robe, while Yma and Florin stationed themselves inside. The three gyros approached cautiously. They were the large black type used by the planetary police, but from the inexpert way they were handled all three at the lodge knew they were not bearing police. They carried bombs, the one weapon allowable to planetary police by the Galactic Patrol, but the men in them would have nothing more than firearms. Therefore it was imperative to get them on the ground. They circled over the lodge, with two finally landing and one remaining aloft. Florin padded over to Yma, and whispered for her to station herself in some bushes by the lodge. He told her to try to shoot down the gyro above when firing began. Men piled out of the ships which had landed, and approached the lodge. They spread out and swiftly encircled the building. They all carried rifles. Florin estimated that there were about twenty of them. Three of them approached Erol. "Are you Erol Garbin?" "Yes. What can I do for you?" "We are arresting you." "What for?" "For betraying the confidence of the people." "May I see your warrant?" "We don't need a warrant. We are a people's committee, come to take you to a people's court, where you will undoubtedly be found guilty and executed." "And what if I refuse to recognize your authority?" "We will have to kill you. Resisting arrest -- " What happened next surprise Florin with its swiftness. Erol flipped the gun from under the robe and with three snap shots dropped all three men. Florin did not let surprise hamper him, for Erol's shots were echoed by his own rifle, which caught two men who were further away. As the rest of the attackers dove for cover, Florin was pleased to hear the blast of a rifle from the side of the lodge, and the whine of a shattered blade as the gyro plummeted to the ground. Yma had done well, hitting where he told her, at the base of the props. The moment of victory was rudely shattered by a volley of fire from the men around the lodge. As Erol sprang from his chair and dove towards the door, he was hit and fell outside. Ignoring his wound he kicked over a table and used it as a shield, returning fire. Florin's thought of rescuing him, was cut short by Erol's yell, "Get to the back of the lodge. They may rush it." Florin made a dash for it, finding Erol's words true. The attackers were moving in. He still heard firing from the front and side, so he felt reassured. He was lost in the blind ritual of firing at moving objects. His whole mind was devoted to the problems of loading clips, changing windows to keep everything covered, and trying to stay out of the path of the viciously whining bullets. This was adventure and excitement. There was the crash of the rifles, the nasty whistle of ricochets, the moving bodies, sometimes jerking ludicrously when hit. Yet, to Florin, it was just a job, as it always is in the face of danger with every man. Just a specialiaed job with a very high incentive. Staying alive. Florin was surprised when he realized that he had disposed of all the attackers on his side. Despite their numbers, they were no match for the trio in the lodge. Florin was an expert marksman, and Erol and Yma had done enough hunting to be quite proficient. On the other side of the ledger, the people's committee were completely new to the business, some of them never having held a gun, and certainly not used to combat in woods. When he went up front, he found that Erol had done a magnificent job despite his wound, beating back wounding all his men. But he had received two more wounds and he was lying on the flagstone terrace in a litter of blood and cartridge cases. The firing from the bushes at the side had stopped too, and Yma came rushing up, to kneel beside her father. She screamed at Florin to get bandages, but it was too late. In the pastoral woods, men had fought and died, and now they felt tragedy. But the sky was still blue, and in a nearby de, a bird warbled freely. L ate that night, Florin and Yma stopped at a .small cabin in the mountains, finding it deserted. They had been travelling on foot since the fight, leaving the gyros as too obvious a method of travel. Yma was still upset over her father's death, and Florin had remained quiet in consideration. The mountain paths were rocky and steep, and they were both exhausted. After a cold meal, they sat in the gathering darkness in the cabin and talked. "I know it's inconsiderate of me to talk of it," Florin said, "but don't you feel resentment against tlie men who killed your father?" She shook her head and said, "I can't feel resentment, I know that it was just circumstances. Those men felt justified in what they did -- and maybe they were." "How can you be so coldblooded?" he said half-angrily. norance and violence against intelligent and kindly men are the supreme injustice." "Why bother discussing the right and wrong of it," she said wearily. "It is all over with, all so meaningless -- and easily forgotten." "That's just it," Florin said earnestly. "You've got to think about it, decide who was right and who was wrong. You've got to decide so that you can base your future actions and attitudes on that. You can't just mark it off the books, for it will still be in your head, all jumbled emotion and no sense." He was trying desperately to bring her out of apathy. He knew that the incident and all of its contributing factors must be clinically analyzed, for both their sakes. Again she shook her head. "No, they were right, they were betrayed. Some of those people had their life's saving of luxury pay invested in the corporation-men, and when those men failed them, they lost their savings and their futures. Poverty is a treacherous catalyst, it makes men do weird and horrible things. Common tricks of psychology added to that, make the whole mess into a primitive society of revenge and hatred." Florin saw he had her on the right track, but ran his hand through his hair in bewilderment as he asked, "But why? We can see tell the cause. I've got to know." She looked at him, barely discemable in the dark cabin, then said, "Why are you so interested? Why did you help us?" "I told you. I was a student of Tomlin, and a believer in the principles of this planet. I saw it produce a society where intelligence and virtue were manifest -- whether for mercenary or other reasons is inconsequential. It worked, and it made a wonderful world. I wanted to do my part in that world -- my world. "Now I want to know why my world has crumbled into a screaming madhouse of violence." "Yes, I can understand all too well how you feel. It's really horrible when you have grown up in a society, learned about its every intricacy, its principles, and come to have faith in it -- then see it suddenly disintegrate. "You come to think of your society ai the universe, nothing else is as permanent as your world, your people. You make plans and move through that society, believing in it with a faith stronger than any religious faith -- for you can see and understand it constantly. "Then something like this happens. The familiar still exists, but palled with suffering and horror. People you have known suddenly become beasts. Your world has collapsed. And even if you know the reason, it doesn't seem possible, the reason is out of a textbook and unreal, but the disillusionment and despair are all too real. "And from such a disintegration, you learn one important thing -- how abysmally ignorant you are of the society that you've lived in, and of people in general." There was a long silence. Finally she said, "I believe in you, and I believe you should know the reason." It was a strange scene as the two people, dirty and tired, sat in the crude cabin by the moonlight and discussed the fate of a world. "When this planet was colonized," Yma began, "everyone laughed at us, and said that our radical socio-economic system couldn't work. All types of people started here. Some were merely looking for a final refuge, some were criminals and confidence men out to 'take' this 'starry-eyed flock of crackpots'. Most of them, though, were solid citizens, who believed that this system of paying a man for his intelligence and virtue on a carefully regulated basis was the proper compromise between reality and altruism to achieve a Utopia. "As you know, it did produce a peaceful, cultural world that has few if any equals in the galaxy. There was one dangerous element in the plan though. Men were paid for their ability and it was money that was used; and wherever there is money there is dishonesty and greed. We had security and precautions against such things disrupting us internally, but we never counted on outside interference. "We joined that galactic company known as Universal Relief. Our government maintained that it performs the highest type of good deeds, they do it for profit, neverthele.ss it was .still a beneficial organization. Its motive of meritorious work for profit was quite similar to our own economic structure, so we invested heasily in the company, both on an individual and a governmental level. We also gave them a large premium, because of our -- well, our eccentricity. We were considered unstable, and I guess the company knew what it was talking about." The last comment was with a wry bitterness that stung Florin. "Anyway, in the last few years a rival company has sprung up. This company, Galactic Aid, has made great strides and is a serious comjjetitor to Universal Relief. " -- The managers of Galactic Aid thought that if they could take our account and investment from Universal, Galactic Aid would have a distinct advantage and eventually break their competitor. They tried salesmanship first, but we were loyal to the original company. "Then they tried other means." Until then her story had been told in the dispassionate voice of a mechanical reader, but when she continued, there was vehemence. "In a galactic company there is inconceivable power, and inconand able, to go to any lengths to gain an economic advantage over a rival. The fate of one planet, more or less, is irrelevant. "Galactic Aid's method of destroying us for that advantage was very crude and very simple; but effective because of its simplicity. "As you know, the ratio of corporation-men to citizens here is very disproportionate, and the economy of the planet is vested in comparatively few individuals. These few people were the ones Galactic Aid attacked. "They sent their agents to the corporation-men, my father included, and told them to stop research, writing, art, or whatever they were doing to earn their luxury pay. They promised protection if they were threatened by the people, and also promi.sed full rc-instatement after normalcy had returned, plus a sizeable bonus for co-operating. The ones who lefused this offer, were threatened, each one personally and their families. It was mass terrorization, and they actually killed a few to prove their seriousness. "Because of our social structure, this plan could, and did work. There are only # corporationmen with over a hundred stockholders. These people are, of course, quite clannish and have little actual contact with the masses. Therefore, this mass threat was heightened by the unity of the small group that it affected. "You know the rest. Under this pressure the incorporated men stopped producing, the economy crumbled, and the riots began. "We have developed a peaceful, cultural society, but no matter how civilized and stabilized a society is, once you knock out the financial props, the populace is going to go mad. "The corporation men didn't receive the promised protection. They soon realized that they had been tricked, but it was too late. Galactic Aid wanted them destroyed by the mob; they wanted murder and riots; and they wanted a Class AA emergency which would drain Universal Relief's resources. "They wanted an economic debacle on Lyrane, thus cutting off a large source of Universal's income. "When the corporation-men tried to tell the people the truth, the mobs called them liars and killed them." Yma appeared to be more relaxed after she had relieved her burdened mind. Florin, however, was stunned. "I know it's terrible," she said, "but what can we do? What can anyone do? Their plan has succeeded, and the planet is too far into chaos to patch up things. "There is notliing that can be done, so we have only individual survival to consider." Florin said, "I don't know what your personal plans are, but I've got to go back to the cities. I've got work to do." She didn't question him. The next morning, after a solid night's sleep, they separated. Yma headed through the mountains to some relatives, while Florin struck out for the capital. T he office of the new, selfappointed Planetary Governor of Lyrane was quite busy. It was the disorganization of a new office, set up during an emergency. And yet, it was an office, a recognizable political mechanism. Considering the murderous imbroglio that this planet had been facing, such an office, even in disorganized form, was quite surprising. Due to the confusion and a knack for bluffing, Florin Brite was able to gain admittance to the Secretary-Governor's office. This official, a former municipal police chief, was obviously impressed with his new position. He was quite brusque to Florin. "What is it man? I hope that it's important -- don't want my time wasted. We're frightfully busy." "I can see that, sir. I merely wished to establish my clas.sification in the new administration." "Good grief man!" the Secretary-Governor exploded. "We've published classification lists. Do I have to tell every man, woman and child their classification? Are you blind -- or just too lazy to read?" "My classification isn't listed," Florin said mildly. "Isn't listed? What classification is that?" "A scientist -- and a former corporation-man." Years of police work and interrogation had steeled the official. There was no surprise shown. "Wc handle those cases directly, Mr. ah -- ah -- " "Florin Brite." "Mr. Brite, there is a feeling of -- uh -- well, touchiness about such individuals so we handle their cases in confidence. I'm glad you came here -- " "Yes, you're quite delighted," Florin was no longer mild. "You're also quite amazed -- for you had no idea that there were any corporation-men left after the 'purge', a very thorough purge, I might add." "Now, see what I mean about touchiness? We were not responsible, not even involved in that mc.ss. This new government is comptosed of citizens who merely wish stability and sanity. Co-operation is our keynote -- " "Cut it. I don't need the party platform. I've read your handbills. I just want to know, what about me?" "Well, you will undoubtedly have to be put under some sort of protective custody. There is still strong feeling -- " Their tete a tete was interrupted by a rushing clerk shouting wildly. "They did it! Universal Relief finally declared it a Class A A I" The clerk was brandishing a .sheet of paper, which he profl'ered to the Secretary, who took it with an expression of pleasure. His reading was interrupted by Florin's voice. "It seems highly unnecessary that wc be declared Class AA now. You people have done such a marvelous job of organizing an emergency government that everything seems to be well under control." "Nonsense man," the Secretary declared. "There is still isolated fighting and rioting, even murder is not unusual." "I merely wished to congratulate you on your speedy action. It was almost as if this government was waiting to spring into existence." The irony was very thinly veiled. The Planetary Governor himself had entered the office while Florin was speaking. There was ice in his voice as he said, "What do you mean by that, sir?" Florin turned and bowed to him. When he spoke again, the v'eil was torn off and the irony was as flagrant as a dead rat -- and as fragrant. "Good day sir. I'm delighted to meet you. I was merely commenting to your Secretary on your efficiency and speed which has so helped this planet in its hour of need." The Governor's eyes ossified. "Just words. What do you want?" The irony disappeared, and Florin's voice transmuted to a tone of accustomed authority. "I want to find out just how you were able to organize and take over so quickly in this emergency. With this planet's economy completely shot after the corporation-men quit producing and with stocks down to nothing, I am fascinated by the problem of how you got financial backing." , "That is none of your business." "On the contrary, it is very much my business. You left your offices in rather a turmoil in your rush to take control. Since you haven't had the time to security screen your governmental employees, the files were as open as if they'd been set on the sidewalks. "From those files, my agents have procured some interesting items, such as -- " and he paused to pull out a sheaf of papers -- "cancelled checks made out to officials of your new government from Titanic Food Distributors, a subsidiary of Galactic Aid. "Also a detailed plan of organization for this government, outlining each step for acquisition of power during the emergency. This plan is dated two years ago and is are the initials of the president of Galactic Aid Incorporated. Handwriting analysts will sew that one up. "The plan is quite fascinating. It gives the procedure for your present establishment: the vigilantes gradually converted to city councils, local governments, consisting of confused and unprepared citizens gullible to the suggestions of agent provocateurs, regional then international conventions to formulate the new government. And at every turn, every election, guided by citizen-agents who would never have seen political power under the old status quo. "The future of this plan is even more fascinating -- putting Lyrane on an industrialized economy, when Lyrane has never had industrial potential, gumming up the works with embargoes and tariffs; and a bureaucratic, leech-like government that will sop up everything in taxes.-' "It's a masterpiece of planning -- of planning the permanent financial and moral destruction of a planet." The planetary officials had suddenly been confronted by a master duelist, this stranger was a swordsman with complete command of ripo.ste, parry and thrust. All they could do was try a few clumsy lunges. "Just who the hell are you to take charge this way and say these preposterous things?" the Governor asked. Florin replied. "You, I know, are a minor e.xecutive of one of Galactic Aid's subsidiaries. I happen to be Roald Gibbons, head of Universal Relief. "And since you want the cards on the table -- here they are. "We have this evidence that I hav-e mentioned, and much more, all under lock and key now. We will use that evidence to prove that this planetary government was and is sponsored by Galactic Aid for the purpose of exploiting this planet in a negative sense and thereby removing it from the accounts of Universal Relief. "We also have a solid case to prove that you, or some of your cohorts, incited the original treason and violence that caused this whole mess. My special investigators have unearthed the cobra nest of your government, while I personally had the satisfaction of gathering proof of your hand in the corporation-men purge." From a casual administrative difficulty. Florin had turned the conversation, since he entered, into a venomous attack. Florin had remaincd standing, but the two officials had retired to chairs. As opposition, they were discouragingly silent, but Florin had more than enough to carry the conversation alone. The two governors were just listening. appalled, but as all men do when they watch their world crumbling, figuring angles, escapes, explanations. But Florin, or rather Roald, was smashing angles faster than they could think of them. "Furthermore," he continued to the silent men, "if you will read that bulletin declaring this planet under Class AA emergency, you will find some interesting facts. As you may or may not know, when a planet is declared Class AA by a relief company, that company is empowered by galactic law to have several controls. "Those controls consist of complete administration of the planet until status quo is resumed, establishment of martial law with the right to arrest and confiscate any persons or things that may have caused the emergency, confiscation of all planetary currency to be retained and re-issued at face value when normalcy returns and, of course, the right to bring charges in Galactic Court against individuals or organizations that have caused the emergency. "On that last point, we. Universal Relief that is, have many charges to bring against Galactic Aid and its agents on this planet. First there is the charge of coercion, readily proved by the testimony of the corporation-men... yes, there arc some left. We protected them. Other charges will include inciting planetary revolution, establishing a false government through outside sources, and -- oh, just lots of others. "Since you arc an executive in Galactic Aid's organization, I will speak for your benefit now." Roald moved over and faced the Governor. "You were pulled in from .some desk job to handle this fledgling government. You had your orders, and for you it was mastly a paper operation. You understand what I have just been talking about, because you know galactic law. "But now, let's talk about something you aren't familiar with. Let's talk about violence, death, and a sick planet -- the things that your company planned and e.xecutcd. "For that your company will stand trial and be found guilty. It will probably be outlawed, and certainly bankrupt once fines and reparations are paid. Meanwhile, this planet, under the guidance of Universal Relief, will be hcljjed to recuperate and the people will be informed of the gross injustice they have suffered. I am sure they will then desire to return to their previous system. "But so much for the future. What about the past? Do you fully realize the enormity of the crime that your company has committed? "Of course you don't. You weren't with me when I saw a nice old gentleman, one of the most down with primitive rifles and even more primitive rage. You haven't heard the screams at night, have you? You weren't around, and neither was I, thank God, when Gerta Robin, that beautiful woman physicist was caught by the mob. (Continued on page I #) A Pattern for Penelope Here is the story that tells us why the first day of February, #, was a very significant day for Miss Haskell, her cat Penelope and -- the entire Universe!... T he first of February, nineteen hundred and fifty-six was a date of considerable significance on Miss Haskell's calendar. It marked the day on which she discovered that she needed new eyeglasses. Galactically speaking, however, the first of February, nineteen hundred and fifty-six, was significant in quite another way. Its equivalent on the galactic calendar, which takes such factors as relative axial rotations and relative orbital velocities into consideration, marked the "day" on which a new quality emerged from behind the crude pillars of Arrogance and Conceit, which hitherto had supported the galactic credo, and stepped into the civilized radiance of a quarter tuitous circumstances of its introduction it captivated the entire galactic civilization in a matter of galactic minutes, undermined the whole socio-centric structure, and led ultimately to the recognition of a number of primitive cultures which the Supreme Council had steadfastly snubbed for galactic centuries. It was a quality that was only relatively new. On primitive Earth it had been around for centuries and Earth philosophers were still vying with each otlier in their various attempts to name it. Some of them called it "naive sentimentalism" and one of them in particular called it "reverence for life". Earth poets, who were supposed to be well versed in such phenomena, were wont to call it "humility"... In its nascent phase, the first of February, nineteen hundred and fifty-six -- insofar as it applied to Illustrated by Kelly Frees Miss Haskell -- gave no intimation that it was going to be noticeably difTercnt from its predecessor, the thirty-first of January, nineteen hundred and fifty-six. She got up at her usual hour, hurried downstairs and dressed in the warmth of the kitchen the way she always did during the winter months. She put the teakettle on and made a few typical remarks to Penelope on the subject of New England winters. Then, unsuspectingly, she went out to get the milk. The milk bill regarded her bleakly when she opened the lid of the small insulated milk box. The "Plca.se" written diagonally across its white countenance was what she noticed first, and small wonder since there were four lines under it this time instead of the three she was accustomed to. Reluctantly, she lowered her eyes to the total. #, she read. She knew then that the day wasn't going to be an ordinary one after all, despite its deceptive beginning. She shivered in the cold wind. Fine snow was blowing in from the ocean, slanting across the low hills that lined the shore, finding the house and swcejjing unchecked from one end of the ofxm back porch to the other. There was a small boy standing on the summit of the highest hill, staring out at the somber restless mass of water. She noticed him subconsciously just before she turned and re-entered the kitchen. "I don't know what we're going to do, Penelope," she said, setting the single quart of milk on the kitchen table and laying the bill beside it. "I simply don't know what we're going to do!" Penelope yawned. She stretched her sleek gray body luxuriously, then she jumped down from the rocker and confidently approached the saucer behind the stove. "Oh, I know you're not worried," Miss Haskell said. "You don't have to try to stretch your pension. All you have to do is sleep and drink milk, and I never did see a cat who could drink as much milk as you do'" She turned back the tinfoil cap of the milk bottle and went over to the stove and filled the saucer. "Just the same," she added softly, "I don't know what I'd do without you." She returned the milk bottle to the table and procured a tea bag and a cup from the cupboard. Pas.sing the window she noticed die small boy again, consciously this time. She paused, staring out into the wind-slanted snow. He was standing motionlessly on the hilltop, looking out across the foreboding waste of snow-pocked waves and troughs as though he were confronted with the most intriguing vista of his lifetime. Why, Miss Haskell thought, he'll freeze standing out there! He'll catch his death of cold standing out there in that cold wind without even a coat on! She opened the door and stepped out on the back porch. She called out, her thin voice fighting valiantly with the wind. "Little boy," she called. "Little boy!" After a moment he turned around and faced her. Even at that distance she noticed that there was something unusual about him. She beckoned to him. After hesitating a moment he started walking toward the house, down the white hillside and across the windswept patch of ground where last summer Miss Haskell had raised string beans and red potatoes. He walked lightly over the uneven, slightly tumbled earth, not stumbling once, and he stopper! at the foot of the porch steps. He looked up at her questioningly. He had the largest, widest eyes that she had ever .seen. Looking down into their gray depths she had the vertiginous feeling that she was standing on the brink of an abyss, staring into misty concepts that were far beyond her ken. For a moment her composure deserted her, then her eyes dropped to the open collar of his strange jacket, dropped still farther to the whiteness of his bare hands, and it returned abruptly, accompanied by indignation. "S'oung man, you get into this house right this minute!" she said, in a manner reminiscent of Aunt Polly laying down the law to Tom Sawyer. "Standing out there in the wind on the coldest day of winter without even a coat on. Why, you're liable to catch your death! The idea!" She thought his eyes widened slightly, but she wasn't sure. It didn't seem possible that they could get much wider. His expres.sion, which reminded her of the expressions she used to see long ago when she had been a country school teacher and had found it frequently necessary to interrupt her charges in the midst of their grandiose daydreams, changed appreciably. It became friendly and disarming. "I'm not really very cold," he said in an astonishingly pleasant voice, "but I'll come in if you like." "Not really very cold indeed!" Miss Haskell said, holding the door open for him. "Why you look as though you're half frozen!" (He really did : his face and hands were almost shockingly white.) "You sit down now, and I'll fix you a cup of tea. What's your name?" "Otelis." He looked around him as though he were intensely interested in every detail of the small crowded kitchen. He paid particular attention to the position of the several chairs. ( Penelope was out of sight behind the stove, still preoccupied with her milk.) "Why what an odd name!" Miss Haskell said, getting another tea bag and another cup from the cupboard. "What won't people 'oe naming their children next! Live near here?" "Yes, in a way." He sat down in the rocker which faced the window and from which a view of the ocean could be obtained. "Relatively speaking, I live quite close." Miss Haskell wondered why he didn't take his hat off. People simply didn't bring up their children the way they used to, .she thought, and they didn't dress them snug and warm the way they used to citlier. The hat, for instance, was a flim.sy little thing consisting of nothing but silvery wiielike threads woven loosely together, and it didn't even come down far enough to cover his ears! She sighed. "I guess I just can't keep track of my neighbors any more," she said. "A body gets old so fast it seems like the years just fly by!" "You're not so very old, are you?" Otelis asked. "I'll never see sLxty-five again!" "But that's not old at all. Why -- " Miss Haskell had gone to the cupboard drawer for spoons. When she turned around, the aspect of her small guest startled her. He was sitting stiffly in the rocker, his mouth partly open, his eyes focused on something moving towards him across the kitchen floor. They had definitely widened this time. "What in the world is the matter?" she said. He did not answer. Mi.ss Haskell followed the direction of his gaze, expecting to see nothing less than a saber-toothed tiger, but all she saw was Penelope who had emerged from behind the stove and was approaching the rocker with an air of adamantine proprietorship. When she reached it she paused for a moment and regarded its occupant contemplatively. Otelis shrank back, his gray eyes enormous. "Why you act as though you never saw a cat before!" Miss Haskell said. Penelope leaped then, landing softly on his lap. For a while he seemed incapable of movement. He sat there rigidly, leaning as far back in the rocker as he could, his white hands tautly gripping the arms. It wasn't until he realized that Penelope didn't intend to proceed any farther than his lap that he began to relax. Presently, after she had curled up comfortably and closed her eyes, he released one of the rocker arms and very cautiously moved his hand to the gray, softly pulsating body. Wonderment suffused his face. "Why," he said, "it makes a noise!" "She's puTTing!" Miss Haskell said. "For heaven's sake, didn't you ever hear a cat purr before? Are you a city boy?" "I -- I'm afraid I neglected to learn about cats. I must have missed them somehow. But oceanography's my speciality. That's the main reason my planet paper received meritclassification." "You must be a city boy, studying such outlandish subjects and not knowing anything atout such ordinary creatures as cats!" Miss Haskell got the kettle from the stave and filled the two cups. "I drink mine plain," she said, sitting down, "but you can have some of Penelope's milk in yours. And of course you'll want sugar. All boys do." "No, I'll drink mine the way you do," Otelis said quickly, watching her closely as though he were waiting to ascertain just the way she did drink it. "Well, be careful then. It's awfully hot." She raised the steaming cup to her lips and took a careful sip. Otelis followed suit. He set the cup down very quickly, Miss Haskell thought. When he did so his hand happened to touch the milk bill, and he picked it up, as though he were eager to occupy his attention with something other than tea. "What's this?" he asked. "It's the milk bill, but I'm afraid it's Penelope's death notice, too." Miss Haskell slumped a little in her chair. "If I can't pay it this month they aren't going to write 'Please' any more. They just aren't going to leave any more milk." "Then why don't you pay it?" "I can't. Not till my pension comes, and that's a long ways off." "You mean Penelope will die?" His gray eyes had attained their maximum circumference. "She will without her milk." He looked down suddenly at the cat curled up in his lap. He ran his fingers gently up and down her back and the purring crescendoed, "she's beautiful in a way. She shouldn't have to die. That's wrong." "Lots of things are wrong in this world," Miss Haskell said, "but I guess there isn't very much we can do about them. But I shouldn't be talking like this," she added quickly. "Carrying on like a lonely old woman, telling a little boy all my troubles. You just drink your tea now, and forget about Penelope." "Funny how I missed cats that way," he said abstractedly. Abruptly he raised his eyes and stared through the window at the somber expanse of ocean that showed darkly beyond the thickening snow. Miss Haskell saw an expression of boyish yearning settle upon his face, saw a far-away look come into his eyes. He sat there immobile for a long time, his eyes lost, and then, slowly, the expression faded and his eyes returned from wherever they had been and dropped gently back to Penelope. "I always sort of liked oceans," he said. "I don't know why. Because they're so big, I guess." "What do oceans have to do with cats?" Miss Haskell asked in bewilderment. A smile flickered at the corners of his mouth. The word "wistful" entered Miss Haskell's mind, then ran quickly out again when she saw how serene his eyes had become. "Quite a lot," he said. He stood up, first lifting Penelope from his lap and depositing her carefully on the kitchen floor. He seemed taller somehow. "I have to go now. Thank you very much for the tea." "You're very welcome," Miss Haskell said, "although I don't believe you touched a drop of it." He picked up the milk bill once more and stared at it VC# intently. The silvery threads of his ridiculous hat seemed to glow. Finally he laid the bill down again and he walked over to the door. "Make sure you go straight home now," Miss Haskell said, getting up and opening the door for him. "Don't let me catch you standing out there in that cold wind again!" "I won't be standing out there any more," he said. He paused for a moment on the porch steps, staring across the field and the snow-blurred hills at the leaden grayness of the ocean. Then he went down the steps and started across the field toward the highest hill. "Goodbye," he called over his shoulder. "Goodbye!" Miss Haskell shouted into the wind. She watched him from the window. It was snowing harder than ever now and by the time he reached the hill she could barely see him at all. He probably lived in one of the winterized summer cottages that stood a short distance down the beach, she thought. She wished suddenly that she had asked him specifically, and wished too that she had thought to ask him why he wasn't in school. But it was too late now. Fie was climbing the hill now, a vague blur of a little boy in a New England snowstorm. Just before he reached the summit a gust of wind sprang up in a wild white flurry and engulfed him, and by the time the flurry had died away the hill was empty. Miss Haskell sighed, more aware of her loneliness than usual. But of course there was Penelope, and as long as she had Penelope she could never be completely lonely. Thinking of Penelope reminded her of the milk bill, and with a shudder she went over to the table and picked it up, intending to put it it away somewhere where she wouldn't have to look at it. But before she put it away she looked at it once more, and that was when she discovered that she needed new eyeglasses. T he M.C. waited until the last child had stepped out of the vertical halo of the matter transmitter and had taken his assigned seat upon the studio stage. Then he stepped before the gargantuan eye of the tele-camera and faced the galaxy-wide audience. Beside him the Alterator scintillated like a complex silver web. "You have just witnessed the winners of the 'My Favorite Primitive Planet' essay contest returning from their sojourns on the planets which they selected as the subjects of their winning essays," he said. "During these sojourns they have instituted the temporal alterations granted to them as a reward of merit, and in a moment they will come forward singly and validate those alterations before the Alterator. "This contest has been sponsored by the Society for the Encouragement of Youthful Confidence in an attempt to impress upon the minds of our galactic-citizens-to-be some idea of the omnipotence to which their scientific heritage entitles them, and to give them some conception, through studying the language, customs and literature of inferior cultures, of the supreme superiority of our own culture. Naturally, due to the serious ramifications that might result from tampering with certain integral time patterns, the winners were instructed to confine all alterations of a geographical nature to nominal patterns only, and those of an historical nature to events which did not involve strong philosophical or ethical trends. Each winner was limited to one alteration." The M.C. turned toward the stage where the children sat waiting, their white faces shining, their little alterator helmets twinkling brightly in the radiance of the studio lights. "You will come forward one at a time and orally submit your alterations for validation," he said... "Alesa, would you like to be first?" Alesa walked demurely across the stage and stood before the intricate web of shining thread-like wires. "The name 'Tekit,' most magnificent city on Tarth #, to 'Alesa'," she said. The Alterator hummed. Alesa returned to her seat. "Voris?" Voris came forward a little shyly. " 'Liliel', largest continent on Fruith #, to 'Voris'." "Stris?" "The 'Metnumen' system of government of Matnanet, Sairis #, to the 'Stris' system of government." "Elora?" "The river 'Tib', on Tranuska #, to the river 'Elora'." "Otelis?" He felt ashamed at first, standing up there in front of all those famous children whose names were already integrated in geography textbooks all over the galaxy. And then, suddenly, he didn't feel ashamed any more at all. He felt proud instead, and he stood up very straight before the dazzling web of the Alterator and he said what he had to say with quiet dignity. " '#' on the milk bill of Miss Abigail Haskell, Rural Route No. #, Smithport, Massachusetts, America, Sol #, to '#'," he said, "and the word 'Please' on same bill to the word 'Paid'." The North "Otelis" Ocean wouldn't have sounded right anyway.    These mindftVere Roshrucid  w'. mil Ftands Bacon Why were these men great? How does anyone -- man or woman -- achieve grc-amess? Is it not by mastery of the powers within ourselves? Know the mysterious world within you ! Attune yourself to the wisdom of the ages! Grasp the inner power of your mind ! Learn the secrets of a full and peaceful life! Benjamin Franklin, statesnrun and inventor... Isaac Newton, discoverer of the Law of Gravitation... Francis Bacon, philosopher and scientist... like many other learned and great men and women... were Rosicrucians. The Rosicrucians existence for centuries. Today, headquarters of of mail annually to all pans of the world. The rebellion of Mankind was successful, and the fate of Loki, Lakkuret Administrator, rested with the rebel leader. Skelling, the rebel leader, didn't know it but in his decision also rested the fate of Mankind. H uman servants admitted Henry Skelling, Advisor for Putnek, to the presence of the Lakkuret Administrator. Skelling, as was necessary, bowed to the Administrator in the presence of the servants. Then the Administrator dismissed the servants. It had been an innovation of his own to do this during routine interviews. Skelling, who had been Advisor for Putnek for a very long time, could remember the previous Administrator; he had always kept the servants by him except for top-secret discussions, and they were rare. The Administrator's name was Loki -- on Lakkuret, at any rate, the Mirmi never owned to more than one name. There was a title, of course. Sir Loki. It was odd, Skelling thought, that they kept the vernacular for a thing like that. Loki spoke. "Well, Skelling, how are things?" He spoke a clear precise English, clearer, Skelling knew, than his own. "They might be worse. At least there isn't quite as much unrest as there was a couple of days ago. But things are hanging fire now, waiting on the Berlin news." Loki looked up at Skelling. "Yes, the Tulinn business." It was difficult to be sure whether there was a snub intended in his correction of Berlin to Tulinn or not. But Skelling had stopped looking for snubs a good many years before. It was the essentials he went for now. He said, "If the sentence is carried out, the rising won't be confined to this continent." Loki looked at him; hailing from a smaller planet his bones were longer and more fragile, his muscles more easily wearied; he drooped languidly in his special Mirmi chair. "For other continents I have other advisers, Skelling. As you know." "As I know. All the same, when there's the possibility of a really big fire, the man who knows the dryness of the local tinder is as good a guide as any... What do they say, by the way?" Loki smiled wearily. "You still try to pcrsuade me that you don't know exactly what advice I get from the others? Skelling, let's stop fooling each other." Skelling looked at him a moment, and they both laughed. "Skelling, the original regulation made any unauthorized entry of a Mirmi building punishable by death. Two years ago, there was the Dietle case. He got a very light sentence." "We didn't think so. Five years -- and he was shown to be as mad as a hatter. To us, it was savage." Loki shook his head. "I'm not sure you know as much about the Dietle case as you think you do... This new affair at Tulinn. Three men caught in the Mirmi building by night, with equipment for circumventing the alarm system -- and armed! What verdict can your people possibly expect? What -- " "Sir Loki," Skelling interrupted. "When a planet, an entire race, is kept in subjection -- what do your people expect?" "What we can command. That only. Obedience." "By what right?" Loki laughed. "We've travelled Illustrated by Kelly Freas a long way. Had your first predecessor put that question to my first predecessor, what would have happened?" Shelling said evenly, "A public flogging, I imagine." "And you imply that the simple carrying out of a law, for whose breaking the penalty is well known, would be brutal?" Skclling looked at him warily. They had become respectful adversaries, in a way friends, but he still felt, at times, that he was treading dangerously. That did not stop him from putting his foot down with some weight. "We've civilized you, but not to the extent we would like. Yes, it would be brutal." Loki laughed quite a long time. Shelling waited for him to stop. Still smiling a little Loki said, "I've been looking through some of our early adrr.inistrative reports. They're interesting. Those for the administration of my predecessor Skrutt particularly." "Locally known," Skclling remarked, "as Satan Skrutt." "In one year," Loki went on, "Administrator Skrutt ordered more than eighty-four thousand executions. And the result? -- calm over the planet from Surrint to Tolda. In my four years there has not been a single execution. And now, when it looks as though I may be forced to act -- not harshly but, shall we say, firmly -- you tell me I am threatened by a planetwide wave of revolt." "I tell you the truth." Loki glanced at him. "I don't disbelieve you. My other sources, you will be glad to hear, confinn it. But tell me, what will be the reason for the revolt -- excessive harshness or excessive laxness?" "Neither. That calm -- in the year of the eighty-four thousand executions -- did that mean defeat? That was Skrutt's last year. His be martyrs; only he didn't have Skrutt's stomach for the job. Nor did he have Skrutt's instructions; your government fell over those eighty-four thousand victims. Skrutt's successor came out with die first glimmering of Mirmi conscience behind him." Loki's look was tired. "Don't lecture me, Skclling. You can't imagine that all this hasn't been the basis for a lot of discussion back on Mirma. Something happened to us when we conquered this planet. It was not our first conquest, but it was the first time we had encountered a continuing resistance. We met it. with a ptolicy of repression -- Skrutt had his orders just as Nemmin who relieved him had his. It failed. There are differing opinions as to why. Our liberals claim that you taught us a lesson in ethics. There is another party that talks of a failure of nerve -- and believes that the failure can be retrieved." "And which party -- ?" "Do I belong to? I am a professional administrator, Skclling. Like Skrutt, like Nemmin. I take my orders, and carry them out to the best of my ability." There was a moment's silence. Skelling broke it. "Well." he said, "has the government fallen?" "Tell me," Loki countered. "How do you come to be so well informed on Mirmi ptolitics?" Skelling allowed a slight trace of contempt to enter his voice. "Why has the Mirmi term of service here been reduced, from five to three years? We corrupt your troops within a twelve-month of their posting here. You know very well that if the revolt comes your own troops will not be united." "If the revolt comes, I should not be too confident that reprisals will be confined to the use of Lakkurct-based troops. We can have a battle squadron here within two weeks. This time it will not be just one city ; they will all feel it." Skelling half smiled. "Will Minni fire on Mirmi?" Loki's look to Skelling carried something that was vague, but it might have been an appeal. It was incredible that it should be so, but it looked that way. "We've known each other some time, Skelling. It was not I who sealed your appointment as Adviser, but I've come to rely on you. Frankly, I don't know what the result of repressive action would be. Neither do you, so we're equal. But one thing you must understand -- I obey orders. If I am told to use the battle fleet, I will use it. I was trained from childhood for this kind of job. Throughout my career I have never failed my superiors. I won't fail them now, either. Whatever it involves, I shall do my job." Skelling spoke softly. "I'll tell you what it will involve. Evacuation. It will be better for you Mirmi if you evacuate without bloodshed, but evacuate you must. We have won already, Sir Loki. It only remains for your people to recognize it." Loki drummed his seven fingers on the desk. The screen that was set into it was blank. Skelling had seen it on other visits covered with the blunt clumsy characters of the Mirmi language. Loki caught his glance. "The news should have been here by now." "The government will fall," Skelling said. "Yes, but to be replaced by which party? The government is a coalition. What will take its place -- a government of liberals, or of repressives?" "Our information says Allef will head the new government." "Your information!" Loki's eyes were on the blank screen."Camp gossip. Sometimes you overestimate your powers, Skelling." Skelling said indilTerently : "Perhaps." Eyes still on the screen, Loki continued : "I hear rumors of Lakkuret politics, too. I hear that, on this evacuation supposition, you have been created World PresidentElect. Congratulations." "You know our proverb," Skelling said, "about the possible slips between cup and lip. A PresidentElect is not a President." "No, and may never be. But congratulations, all the same. Should we have to abandon this planet, I would prefer to think of the administration being in good hands after wc had gone; and with you I know it would be." "Thank you," Skelling murmured. Then in a firmer tone, "I would return the compliment but for one minor detail -- that the worst man on Earth would fit your place better than you do. Nothing personal, you understand." "I understand." The small screen flashed into activity, and they both tensed. Shelling knew enough Mirmi to pick out certain words -- "demonstration," "crisis" and "Surrint." It was not the message from Mirrna that they were waiting for. Loki pressed a button, and the message was transferred to the large screen on the wall. "Local," he murmured. He pressed another button. The writing gave place to a street scene. "Here," Loki said with some astonishment. "In Surrint itself!" The camera closed in. The marching column was very orderly and very steady, though some of the faces looked nervous. They were singing the old song, part march, part dirge, that dated back to the time of Skrutt. They were and, more roughly done but in big"I think," Loki said, "that the imposition of Mirmi names on your cities may have been a .serious mistake." Skelling pointed to the screen. "And -- what do you propose to do about that?" Loki smiled. "Ignore it. It isn't relevant to the main issue. I take it you knew this would happen?" "I advised against it." Skelling smiled ruefully. "Even a World President-Elect does not always have his wishes respected. It seemed to be a pointless provocation while we were waiting for the big news from Mirma." A man in the front rank shook his fist towards the watching camera. He was a little man, and he looked scared. "If we go," Loki said, "if we go, our stay here will not have been quite without advantage to you." "We shall have interstellar travel, and a few other gadgets!" "No, I didn't mean that kind of thing. You know that. We came to a planet that had learned nothing from two shattering wars, and was preparing to plunge itself into a third. We brought you peace." "We remember that propaganda," Skelling said bitterly. "We remember that we believed the talk of benefits -- and found ourselves slaves." "All the same," Loki said emphatically, "there were benefits. If we went, we should leave you a united planet." "A benefit," Skelling said, "but we've paid for it. Another civil war might not have been worse." "Civil war? Your ancestors would not have called it that. Perhaps you needed the Mirmi to bring these things home to you." "Perhaps." "And us, what becomes of us, the Mirmi?" "How many planets do you claim to have colonized -- two hundred, three hundred? You have living space enough. You don't want us to feel sorry for you, do you?" "A millenium of expansion," Loki said quietly. "Almost exactly a millenium. A thousand years of expansion, the creation of a stellar empire extending over five hundred light years. You could spare some sympathy for us, Skelling. Because once we begin to retreat, what follows? Once our hegemony cracks, it's an open ring. You aren't the only race to which we've given interstellar travel. At least, our rule brought peace." "The word 'peace,' Skelling said, "is beginning to hypnotize you. Peace... peace... peace. I told you we had won already. As for what follows -- that can wait on events. If your grip breaks, I presume some other race will supply the deficiency." Loki looked at him. "Some other race? Men, perhaps?" The Administrator shook himself out of his languor and sat upright, as upright as any of the Mirmi could sit. "You know, I have a feeling we have allowed our conversation to become somewhat unreal. We are not here to discuss the way your people propose to take over our empire, but the measures to be adopted against the Tulinn saboteurs." "Not that, either. We are here. Sir Loki, to pass the time while the government falls on Mirma." Loki had left the receiver switched onto the big screen, though he had cut out the view of the demonstration. Now while Skelling spoke a message began to form. Without letting his attention become distracted from vriiat he read there, Loki murmured tensely, "The Government has fallen." "And... ?" Skelling looked not at the screen but at Loki's face. "And Allef... ?" The message had ended. Loki looked at him. "No, not Allef. Mered is the new Chief Minister," F or a moment Skelling let the crushing weight of despair master him. Bitter news, and unexpected. Mered was the leader of the repressives; translations of his speech calling for racial regeneration and reassumption of the mission of conquest had been widely disseminated on Lakkuret, which had once been known as Earth. Gently Loki said, "The Tulinn case. I've put it up to Mirma Command, and there will be no final decision until I hear from them. But, in view of the change of government... I don't think there can be any doubt as to what the decision will be." Skelling had recovered himself. "What I told you earlier was no bluff. Sir Loki. The whole planet will rise against you. You have been Administrator here for a long time ; you can't look forward with any pleasure to what is going to happen. If you were to resign rather than carry out the decision... there must still be a delicate balance on Mirma... it might make the difference." Loki's face was expressionless. "I told you, Skelling -- I obey orders. I was trained for this duty; to carry it out, not to shirk it. Let me give you some advice instead. Tell your people to behave themselves. There will be some new regulations, but providing they are obeyed there is no reason to expect harsh measures. I warn you -- it is your only hope." "That is not hope," Skelling said tersely. "That is resignation to slavery." Loki smiled; the contemptuouslooking smile of the Mirmi, but there was sadness in it, and wry humour. "There is a barrier between us, Skelling. I have enjoyed your company, as I think you have mine, and if the barrier were not there we might have been friends. You are human, and determined to rebel. I am of the Mirmi. That separates us." "Look at it from our point of view. Sir Loki." "Look at it from ours. A thou.sand years of empire is not put aside in a moment. Had it been Allef. I would have earned out my different orders, but at heart I would have been ashamed. I have been here a long time, and grown to love Lakkurct, but there would have been the shame of defeat -- nothing could have prevented that" "And there is no shame at the thought of the bloody fighting that is bound to come?" "No shame, Skelling. Regret, but not shame. If you humans do rebel and I am still Administrator after the rebellion is crushed, I shall try to mitigate the conditions that wiil be imposed. It will not be easy, but I shall do my best." "This rebellion will not be crushed." "'ou have forgotten our power," said Loki. "You have grown used to conce.ssions and the presence of garrison troops. It will be a different matter when the battle squadron darkens your skies. Then your eople will look for holes in the ground, as they did before." Loki stood up. lie stretched his hand out. "Goodbye, Skelling. I shall t # to stop the bloodshed. There will be planet-wide telecasts about the new government, 'our people will be warned by us. if not by you." They shook hands. Skelling spoke quietly now. "It will do no good." "I shall try, anyway. If I fail... I hope that it will soon be over." In the outer rooms there were the human servants who had been dismissed by Loki at the beginning of tile interview. One of Skelling's own men was among them. He came close to Skelling as he went out. "Well?" "Mered," Skelling replied. "War. But we shall win." He hopied he sounded more confident than he felt. T hey wanted Skelling to leave London; the other members of the secret NVorld Council had left their cities to take up their prearranged duties as resistance leaders -- cities were potential deathtraps. Skelling, however, would not leave. Loki was still in London, although on the day that he ordered the execution of the Berlin rebels he dismissed his human serving .staff; their purjxisc had, in any case, been no more than decorative -- the work was done by robots. As Skelling piointcd out, Loki's presence was a fair indication that, whatever happened elsewhere, London would not be bombed. By and large, events fell out as planned, though there were nerveracking setbacks. The first wave of revolt spread from Berlin, and the Mirmi garrison there went over to the rebels in a matter of hours. There was a counter-drive from France, and another from Russia which tried to pincer with the first, but they collapsed separately, and within three days the continent of Europe w'as in the hands of men and the rebel Mirmi. A week after the insurrection began, only South America and the islands of Britain were still ruled by Mirmi loyal to their own planet. The situation had consolidated, and both sides sat back to await the intervention -- decisive one way or the other -- of the battle squadron from Mirma. Fighting ceased; an armed truce took its place. There had been relatively little bloodshed. No bombing had occurred; the rebel Mirmi held nine tenths of the local space fleet. Their units paraded over the centers of resistance -- Skclling watched them hail low over the huddled roofs of London -- but there was no combat. A good sign, Skelling thought at first; for men, everything depended on the reluctance of Mirmi to fight Mirmi. But reflection showed him the unwisdom of his confidence -- these were all Earth-garrison Mirmi, sharing the bond of having been under human influence. It had been that wcapon -- the human power to sway their conquerors -- which had brought the pre.scnt temporary success, but there was no reason to think that it would apply against the Mirmi in the battle squadron. They would be coming, flushed with that atavistic yearning for power which even Loki had shown, probably only too ready to kill their fellow-Mirmi whom they saw as traitors. The game was far from over. The battle squadron arrived two weeks, to the day, after the revolt. Somewhere beyond the moon it emerged into three-dimensional space, but the first that was known of its presence was when New York was obliterated. Then the telecasts carried scenes of the smoking slagheap that had been the city, round the entire earth. To reinforce the impression the battle squadron itself cruised through the lower atmosphere, showing itself above the major centers of population. It was a grim and impressive sight; the great crui.sers looming monstrously in comparison with those ships which men had been accustomed to see, the pitiably small patrol vessels on which the hope of liberation now rested. Why should the local Mirmi defenders pit themselves against such odds, against their own kind? There was no logical reason for it. But they did. The battle was joined in atmosphere, above the Pacific Ocean. The small patrol ships, capable of so much greater speed and manoeuverability in the confinement provided by air pressure, launched their attack directly at the ponderously cruising armada. They tore through the loose formation, lancing it again and again. Some of their electro-corrosion charges got through the defence; when the battle squadron rose clear into free space it left one ship behind, rolling helplessly on the waves of the Pacific. Three patrol ships had gone down with it. The battle squadron did not again venture into the atmosphere. Instead, lying just off the planet in space, they destroyed Leningrad, and dealt Rome a blow that was near mortal. The new tactics were clear -- a progressive destruction of the cities of the Earth until the rebels begged for peace. And the patrol ships went for them again. In space they were hopelessly ineffective against the great cruisers. They attempted only diversionary attkeks, flipping up through the stratosphere and launching their charges, then away back to their relative haven. But their losses were heavy. Skclling, in radio communication with the fleet of patrol ships, saw a meteor glow red, plunging towards the distant Welsh hills, and knew with sadness what it was. They were a wonderful race, the Mirmi. Men might have taught them some things, but there were other respects in which men could only, humbly, learn from them. For several days the dwindling number of the rebel ships continued their hopeless struggle. Skelling, extrapolating on the course of events, could fix a term to the possible continuation of resistance. Even if the Mirmi who had allied them.selves with men fought to the bitter end, to the last patrolship, within a week all would be over. But the war was over the following day, and the rebels had won. The message came over the telecast blanket channel, in Mirmi first and then in English:  "The #rd Battle Squadron salutes the garrison of Lakkuret. The Admiral Besson has been deposed; the fleet takes commands from Commodore Atark. The blood of our brothers has gained the freedom of the humans of Lakkuret; to our brothers we surrender the fleet and this planet. Mirmi shall not slay Mirmi, in an unjust cause. We come in peace now, and bring liberty." Skelling saw the great armada, a menace no longer, sink through the English clouds; the .surrender was being made, reasonably enough, at the old center of government. He was called then, and told the other news; Loki's personal retinue, joining the winning side, had turned him over to the Earthmen. alike. Skelling's first impression was that it was Loki who was sitting as usual behind his desk. Then he saw Loki held prisoner on the far side of the room. There were two other Mirmi present, and three of his own men. The Minn behind the desk made the movement with his hand which was the greeting between equals; .Skelling had never received it before. "Grceting.s, President. I am Atark, Commodore of the Fleet." "Greetings," Skelling replied. "The men of Earth offer you their duty. Commodore, and their gratitude for liberation." "Peace between our races." "Peace," echoed Skclling. Atark permitted himself to smile. "Earth," he repeated. "Men of Earth. A word dies. Lakkuret exists no longer." "Many words die," Skclling .said quietly. "Surrint dies. The name of this city is London." "London? I had not heard that. Lakkuret -- you knew what that means, in our speech?" Skclling .shook his head. "It means Fair Haven. The Admiral of the First Fleet gave it that name. The Mirmi, in all their wanderings, had never found so lovely a world." Skelling looked at him curiously. "But you never made any serious attempt to colonize it? Only troops -- no settlers." "There were to have been setI In s. But if our troops, under disword clumsily -- "what would beloiiir if settlers? The idea was iwvn abandoned; only postponed. ".nd now... ?" "Our first duty is to Mirma. The licet is reforming. Tomorrow we nMurn liome, to depose Mered." "You can do that?" "Mirnii do not fight Mirmi," At. irk replied, "in an unjust cause. 'I'liat accomplished... many of us will wish to come back to Earth -- as friends, as guests. We do not seek your good lands. Give us your deserts, and we will make thent bloom. Will you take us?" "I cannot speak finally until the Council has met," Skelling said, "but I tliink you can take it the answer is yes; we shall be glad to have the Mirmi as friends." "It is a lovely world," Atark said wistfully. He stood up, stooping under his body's greater weight. "We will leav'e now. We have much to do." Skelling gestured towards the bound L.oki. "And Loki?" Atark looked at his fellow Mirm indifferently. "He is yours. I understand your people hold him guilty of the death of the men of Tulinn, and perhaps of the death and destruction that followed. Do whatever is necessary." After all these years, Skelling reflected, lie still knew very little of Mirmi sychology. "Mirmi do not fight Mirmi, except in a just cause." But they abandon them. There was a curious logic in their minds, difficult for men to grasp. The human mind was so much more flc.xible and, he thought, more petty, Skelling said : "And should our decision be not death but banishment?" "Send him back to the fleet." Atark smiled grimly. "But we shall be surjrised to see him." When the Minni had gone, Skelling indie. ited Loki. He said to his men, "Untie him." As they obeyed, one of them commented ; "That was a funny thing to say, President -- about banishment. We know what the sentence will be." Skelling answered softly; "No one know that, until it's pronounced. You can go now." They did not look very pleased about going. Loki glanced after them. "I prefer men when they aren't exercising their unique talent for claptrap. Your followers arc quite right. We do know what the sentence will be. Behind the spurious liberalism your race has an odd vmdictivcne.ss, cspcci.ally when acting in the mass." "Perhaps." Skelling looked at him. "Well? I told you we had won, even then." "Not by your own qualities, by ours." "A catalyst," Skelling suggested, "to help the Mirmi on the right course." Loki continued, "You are not childish enough to believe that, Skelling. Unless you regard defeat and decadence as the right course for the Mirmi." "There can be no defeat in civil war. Why should there be decadence?" "Lakkuret," Loki said. "Fair Haven. You will let the Mirmi come here to settle. Noble generosity -- and meanwhile men will be voyaging through the stars, taking the place of the Mirmi as rulers of the Mirmi empire." "It might happen," Skelling admitted. "But by consent." Loki said admiringly; "Nothing will stop men; they nave a h'pocrisy which will win them the galaxy." There was an irony in his voice which was different from the irony of defeat; it had an edge of satisfaction. It was difficult to imagine what Loki could have to be satisfied about. His side had lost, his race he saw as foredoomed to lotuseating exile, and his own life was forfeit. And yet there was satisfaction in his voice, ironic triumph. "You did your duty," said Skelling. "I haven't stopped doing so. The duty of a Mirm continues to death." "There is not much you can do now." "Duty has its negative side. The things not to do, as well as the things to do." "A witness to the past greatness of the Mirmi?" "A witness for the prosecution," Loki said, "not for the defence." Skelling looked at him with admiration and some affection. "There will be no trial." For the first time, Loki was thrown off balance. He looked uncertain. "You have no choice in that," he said. "Our casualties numbered more there will be a verdict of guilty, and a sentence of death. It would be unfair, but that is what would happen... So I shall release you." "Release? To what?" "To the fleet. You have your patrolship on the roof, and you can have my signature on a pardon." Loki looked at him for some moments without replying. "That would be a breach of your duty to your people." Skelling nodded. "In a sense, yes. I don't think it's important." "You would be deposed as President." "Possibly." "Not possibly -- certainly." "Certainly, then. That's not important cither. There would be no pleasure in a presidency built on such a foundation." "You are serious about this! You surprise me. More than that -- I am corifused." "I should waste no time," said Skelling. "We have talked long enough. My men may get suspicious and come back. It may be impossible for you to get away then." "So there can be friendship," Loki murmured, "between you and me, between man and Mirm." "It was never my view. Sir Loki, that there could not be." Skelling saw Loki come to a decision; his expression changed and he smiled. "I accept your offer -- and I find that I can betray my duty, too, for friendship." "Your duty -- as a witness?" "More than that. Before he was deposed Admiral Besson sent me something -- the Weapon." Skelling felt horror crawl in his mind. It had been his over-riding fear, that the Mirmi might, in their desperation, use their ultimate weapon -- the hydrogen chain-reaction bomb -- against the rebel planet. Activated, the earth's atmosphere would blaze, the world burn like a tinder. He saw now what Loki's duty had been -- the duty of keeping silence while the slow fuse burned. Loki went on, "It seemed to us that Earth had been a curse on the Mirmi, and that if it were destroyed the curse might lift. I don't think that now and an)'way... it doesn't matter." Skelling said urgently: "When is it set for?" "There's time enough. Tomorrow morning. It was necessary' to destroy the battle squadron along with the planet. It was that which was the hardest to bear, but there seemed to be no choice." "And it's..." "On the roof. In my patrolship. Set to e.xplode pretnaturely if tampered with, of course." "I'm c.xceptionally nervous," Skelling said. "Shall we go up now?" locked the fuse mechanism and put it out of action. Loki tossed the fuse away. He looked round, at the other roofs of the city and at the distant sunlit hills. "Surrint," he said. "Goodbye, Surrint." "Come back some time," Skelling said. "Come back here to London." "No. I shall not come back. But it is a lovely world. Perhaps for the Mirmi the einjiire is well lost." "Lovely," Skelling asked, "or corrupting?" "Both. Perhaps loveliness always corrupts. I never thought I would disobey instructions; and yet now it doesn't matter." Loki stood by the door of the patrolship. ready to enter. "Remember us," he said. "Remember the Mirmi when your great shijss are probing the darkness beyond the galaxy." "That will be after my time," Skelling said. "I will remember you, Loki." "And I, you." The patrolship climbed into the blue sky towards the great poised shadows of the battle squadron. Skelling watched it out of sight. Then he went downstairs, to confront outraged humanity.    the Earth one of these evenings. Scientists are urging the launching of a small #-pound moon now, instead of aiming at a "super-satellite." It would flash across the sky for about three weeks and then gradually slow by friction and spiral down to Earth with its load of instruments. The "new look ' in propo.scd satellites has Orbital Unmanned Satellite Earth." plastic chemically bonded together. New bonding compounds which will unite chemically with plastics and glass in combination have been discovered. The Ironded nraterials can be made into laminated panels that combine the flexibility of plastic with the strength of glass flbers. There are times when the animal in Mankind savately asserts itself. Eiien children become snarling little beasts. Fortunately, however, in childhood laughter is not buried deep H e dropped over the stone wall and flattened to the ground. He looked warily about him like a young wolf, head down, eyes up. His name was Steven -- but he'd forgotten that. His face was a sunburned, bitter, filthy elcvcn-ycar-old face -- tight lips, lean cheeks, sharp blue eyes with startlingly clear whites. His clothes were rags -- a pair of corduroy trousers without any knees : a man's white shirt, far too big for him, full of holes, stained, recking with sweat ; a pair of dirty brown sneakers. He lay, knife in hand, and waited to sec if anyone had seen him coming over the wall or heard his almost sesundlcss landing on the weedgrown dirt. ,bovc and behind him was the grey stone wall that ran along Central Park West all the way from Columbus Circle to the edge of Harlem. He had jumjaed over just north of #nd Street. Here the park was considerably below street level -- the wall was about three feet high on the sidewalk side and about nine feet high on the park side. From where he lay at the foot of the wall only the jagged, leaning tops of the shattered apartment buildings across the street were visible. Like the teeth of a skull's smile they caught the late afternoon sunlight that drifted across the park. For five mimites Steven had knelt motionless on one of the cement benches on tlic other side of the wall, just the top of his head and his eyes protruding over the top. He had seen no one moving in the park. Every few seconds he had looked up and down the street behind him to make sure that no one was sneaking up on him that way. Once he had seen a man dart out halfway across the street, then wheel and vanish back into the rubble where one whole side of an apartment house had collapsed iii.o #th Street. Steven knew the reason for that. A dozen blocks down the street, from around Columbus Circle, had come the distant hollow racket of a pack of dogs. Then he had jumped over the wall -- partly because the dogs might head this way, partly because the best time to move was when you couldn't see anyone else. Alter all, you could never be sure that no one was seeing you. You just moved, and then you waited to see if anything happened. If someone came at you, you fought. Or ran, if the other looked too dangerous. No one came at him this time. Only a few days ago he'd come into the park and two men had been hidden in the bushes a few yards from the wall. They'd been lying very still, and had covered Illustrated by Paul Orban themselves with leaves, so he hadn't seen them; and they'd been looking the other way, waiting for someone to come along one of the paths or through the trees, so they hadn't seen him looking over the wall. The instant he'd landed, they were up and chasing him, yelling that if he'd drop his knife and any food he had they'd let him go. He dropped the knife, becau.se he had others at home -- and when they stopped to paw for it in the leaves, he got away. Now he got into a crouching position, very slowly. His nostrils dilated as he sniffed the breeze. Sometimes you knew men were near by their smell -- the ones who didn't stand outside when it rained and scrub the smell off them. He smelled nothing. He looked and listened some more, his blue eyes hard and bright. He saw nothing e.xcept trees, rocks, bushes, all crowded by thick weeds. He heard nothing except the movement of greenery in the afternoon breeze, the far off baying of the dog pack, the flutter of birds, the scamper of a squirrel. He whirled at the scamper. When he saw that it was a squirrel, he licked his lips, almost tasting it. But it was too far away to kill with the knife, and he didn't want to risk stoning it, because that made noise. You stoned squirrels only after you'd scouted all around, and even then it was dangerous -- someone might hear you anyway and sneak up and kill you for the squirrel, or for anything else you had, or ju.st kill you -- there were some men who did that. Not for guns or knives or food or anything else that Steven could see... they just killed, and howled like dogs when they did it. He'd watched them. They were the men with the funny looks in their eyes -- the ones who tried to get you to come close to them by pretending to offer you food or something. In a half-crouch Steven started moving deeper into the park, pausing each time he reached any cover to look around. He came to a long green slope and went down it soundlessly, stepping on rocks whenever he could. He crossed the weedgrown bridle path, darting from the shelter of a bush on one side to press against the trunk of a tree on the other. He moved so silently that he surprised another squirrel on the tree trunk. In one furious motion Steven had his knife out of his belt, and sliced it at the squirrel so fast the blade went tuhuh in the air -- but the squirrel was faster. It scurried up out of reach, and the knife just clipped off the end of its tail. It went higher, and out onto a branch, and chittered at him. It was funny about squirrels -- they didn't seem to feel anything in their tails. Once he'd caught one that way, and it had twisted and run off, leaving the snapped-off tail in his hand. Dogs weren't that way -- once he'd fought a crippled stray from a pack, and he'd got it by the tail and swung it around and brained it on a lamppost. Dogs... squirrels... dreamlike memory of dogs that acted friendly, dogs that didn't roam the streets in packs and pull you down and tear you apart and eat you alive ; and he had a memory of the squirrels in the park being so tame that they'd eat right out of your hand... But that had been a long, long time ago -- before men had started hunting squirrels, and sometimes dogs, for food, and dogs had started hunting men. Steven turned south and paralleled the bridle path, going always wherever the cover was thickest, moving as silently as the breeze. He was going no place in particular -- his purpose was simply to see someone before that someone saw him, to see if the other had anything worth taking, and, if so, take it if possible. Also, he'd try to get a squirrel. Far ahead of him, across the bridle path and the half-mile or so of tree-clumped park that lay beyond, was Central Park South -- a sawtoothed ridge of grey-white rubble. And beyond that lay the ruin of midtown Manhattan. The bomb had exploded low over #th Street and Seventh Avenue that night six years ago, and everything for a mile in every direction had been leveled in ten seconds. The crater started at around #th and sloped down to where #th had been and then up again to #th, and it glowed at night. It wasn't safe to go down around the crater, Steven knew. He'd heard some men talking about it -- they'd said that anyone who went there got sick ; something would go wrong with their skin and their blood, and they'd start glowing too, and die. Steven had understood only part of that. The men had seen him and chased him. He'd gotten away, and since then had never ventured below Central Park South. It was a "war", they'd said. He didn't know much about that either... who was winning, or had won, or even if it was still being fought. He had only the vaguest notion of what a war was -- it was some kind of fight, but he didn't think it was over food. Someone had "bombed" the city -- once he had heard a man call the city a "country" -- and that was about as early as he could remember anything. In his memory was the flash and roar of that night and, hours before that, cars with loud voices driving up and down the streets warning everybody to get out of the city because of the "war". But Steven's father had been drunk that night, lying on the couch in the living room of their apartment on the upper west side, and even the bomb hadn't waked him up. The cars with the voices had waked Steven up; he'd gone back to sleep after a while, and then the bomb had waked him up again. He'd gone to the window and climbed out onto the fire escape, and seen the people running in the street, and listened to all the screaming and the steady rumble of still-falling masonry, and watched the people on foot trample each other and people in cars drive across the bodies and knock other people down and out of the way, and still other people jump on the cars and pull out the drivers and try to drive away themselves until someone pulled them out... Steven had watched, fascinated, because it was more exciting than anything he'd ever seen, like a movie. Then a man had stood under the fire escape, holding up his arms, and shouted up at Steven to jump for God's sake, little boy, and that had frightened Steven and he went back inside. His father had always told him never to play with strangers. Next afternoon Steven's father had gotten up and gone downstairs to get a drink, and when he saw what had happened, he'd come back making choked noises in his throat and saying over and over again, "Everybody worth a damn got out... now it's a jungle... all the scum left, like me -- and the ones they hurt, like you, Stevie..." He'd put some cans of food in a bag and started to take Steven out of the city, but a madman with a shotgun had blown the side of his head off before they'd gone five blocks. Not to get the food or anything... looting was going on all over, but there wasn't any food problem yet... the man was just one of the ones who killed for no rea.son at all. There'd been a lot like that the first few weeks after the bomb, but most of them hadn't lasted long -- they wanted to die, it looked like, about as much as they wanted to kill. Steven had gotten away. He was five years old and small and fast on his feet, and the madman missed with the other barrel. Steven had fled like an animal, and since then had lived like one. He'd stayed away from the men, remembering how his father had looked with half a head -- and because the few times men had seen him, they'd chased him; either they were afraid he'd steal from them, or they wanted his knife or belt or something. Once or twice men had shouted that they wouldn't hurt him, they only wanted to help him -- but he didn't believe them. Not after seeing his father that way, and after the times they had tried to kill him. He watched the men, though, sneaking around their fires at night -- sometimes because he was lonely and, later on, hoping to find scraps of food. He saw how they lived, and that was the way he lived too. He saw them raid grocery stores -- he raided the stores after they left. He saw them carrying knives and guns -- he found a knife and carried it; he hadn't yet found a gun. They ran from the dogs; he learned to run from them, after seeing them catch a man once. The men raided other .stores, taking clothes and lots of things whose use Steven didn't understand. Steven took some clothes at first, but he didn't care much about what he wore -- both his shirt and his heavy winter coat had come from dead men. He found toy stores, and had a lot of toys. The men collected and hoarded wads of green paper, and sometimes fought and killed each other over it. Steven vaguely remembered that it was called "money", and that it was very important. He found it too, here and there, in dead men's pockets, in boxes with sliding drawers in stores -- but he couldn't find any use for it, so his hoard of it lay hidden in the hole in the floor under the pile of blankets that was his bed. Eventually he saw the men begin to kill for food, when food became scarce. When that happened -- the many of the men left the city, going across the bridges and through the tunnels under the rivers, heading for the "country". He didn't follow them. The city was all he'd ever known. He stayed. Along with the men who said they'd rather stay in the city where there was still plenty to hunt hard and sometimes kill for it, and, in addition, beds to sleep in, rooms for protection from the weather and dogs and other men, all tlie clothes you could wear, and lots of otlier stuff just lying around for the taking. He stayed, and so he learned to kill, when necessary, for his food. He had si. knive.s, and with them he'd killed men higher than he could count. He was good at hiding -- in trees, in hallways, behind bushes, under cars -- and he was small enough to do a good job of trailing when he saw somebody who looked as though they were carrying food in their pockets or in the bags almost everyone carried. And he knew where to strike with the knife. His home was the rubble of an apartment building just north of Columbus Circle, on Broadway. No one else lived there; only he knew the way through the broken corridors and fallen walls and piles of stone to his room on the seventh floor. Every day or so he went out into the park -- to get food or anything at all he could get that he wanted. He was still looking for a gun. Food was the main thing, though; he had lots of cans up in his room, but he'd heard enough of the men's talk to know that it was wise to use them only when you didn't have anything else, and get what you could day by day. And, of course, there was water -- when it didn't rain or snow for a while, he had to get water from the lakes in the park. That was hard sometimes. You could go two or three days without water, even if you went to one of the lakes and stayed hidden there all day, because it might be that long before a moment came when no one was near enough to kill you when you made your dash from the bushes and filled your pail and dashed back. There were more skeletons around the lakes than anyplace. T he dogs were coming up Central Park West. Their racket bounced off the broken buildings lining the street, and came down into the park, and even the squirrels and birds were quieter, as if not wanting to attract attention. Steven froze by the bole of a tree, ready to climb if the dogs came over the wall at him. He'd done that once before. You climbed up and waited while the dogs danced red-eyed beneath you, until they heard or smelled someone else, .ind then they were off, bounding hungrily after the new quarry. They'd learned that men in trees just didn't come down. The dogs passed the point in the park where Steven waited. He knew from the sound that they weren't after anybody -- just prowling. The howls and snarls and scratchy sounds of nails on concrete faded slowly. Steven didn't move until they were almost inaudible in the distance. Then, when he did move, he took only one step -- and froze again. Someone was coming toward him. Just a shadow of a motion, a whisper of sound, a breath -- someone was coming along the path on the other side of the bushes. Steven's lips curled back to reveal decayed teeth. He brought out his knife from his belt and stood utterly still, waiting for the steps to go on so he could trail along behind his quarry, off to one side, judging the other's stature from glimpses through the bushes, and ascertaining whether he was carryBut the footsteps didn't pass. They stopped on the other side of the bushes. Then leaves rustled as whoever it was bent to come through the bushes. Steven hugged his tree trunk, and saw a short thin figure coming toward him through the green leaves, a bent-over figure. He raised the knife, started to bring its point down in the .short arc that would end in the back of the other's neck... He dropped the knife. Wide-eyed, not breathing, he stared at her. Knife in hand, its point aimed at his belly, she stared back. She was dressed in a man's trousers, tom off at the ankles, and a yellow blouse that might have belonged to her mother, and newlooking shoes she must have found, or killed for, only a week or so ago. Her face was as sunburned and dirty as his. A squirrel chittered over their heads as they stared at each other. Steven noted expertly that she seemed to be carrying no food and had no gun. No one with a gun would carry a drawn knife. She still held the knife ready, though the point had drooped. She moistened her lips. He wondered if .she would attack. He obviously didn't have any food either, so maybe she wouldn't. But if she did -- well, she was only a little larger than he was; he could probably kill her with her own knife, though he might even get his osvn knife from the ground before she got to him. But it was a woman, he knew... without knowing exactly what a woman was, or how he knew. The hair was long -- but then, some of the men's hair was long too. It was something different -- something about the face and body. He hadn't seen many women, and certainly never one as little as this, but he knew that's what it was. A woman. Once he'd seen some men kill another man who'd killed a woman for her food. By their angry shouts different somehow. And he remembered a woman. And a word : mother. A face and a word, a voice and a warmth and a not-sour body smell... she was dead. He didn't remember who had killed her. Somehow he thought she had been killed before everything changed, before the "bomb" fell; but he couldn't remember very well, and didn't know how .she'd been killed or even why people had killed each other in tho.se days... Not for food, he thought; he could remember having plenty to eat. Another word: cancer. His father had said it about hb mother. Maybe somebody had killed her to get that, instead of food. Anyway, Contestants will be interested in the iatest and most complete book for Unicorn and American Puzzlers. book beamed at the largest puzzle prizes in history. We are proud to have Mr. Winthrop on our writing staff. This big book contains vital informaRead the exclusive features listed below and see how this remarkable book will help you in your quest for First Prize. diate shipment. Order today before the first edition is sold out. Complete for #. three easy payments. Send only # with coupon below and # per month for two months thereafter. ferent category names for selecting your answer. ficult objects used in past puzzles, with their identifications. puzzles with identifications and answers. ent synonyms. methods of solving American TieBreakers to suit your own particular abilities. your competition the easy way. Less effort but better results. # Church St. New York #, N. Y. Please send me immediately # with this coupon and promise to send #. per month for two additional months. Q Check here to save # cents shipping and postal charges by enclosing full # with somebody had killed her, because she was dead, and people didn't just die. Seeing a woman, and such a little one... it had startled him so much he had dropped his knife. But he could sull kill her if he had to. She stirred, her eyes wide on his. She moved just an inch or so. Steven crouched, almost too fast to see, and his knife was in his hand, ready from this position to get in under her stab and cut her belly open. She made a strangled sound and shook her head. Steven pulled his swing, without quite knowing why. He struck her knife out of her hand with his blade, and it went spinning into the leaves. He took a step toward her, lips curled back. She retreated two steps, and her back was against a tree trunk. He came up to her and stood with his knife point pressing into her belly just above where the blouse entered the man's pants. She whimpered and shook her head and whimpered again. He scowled at her. Looked her up and down. She was wearing a tarnished ring on her right hand, with a stone that sparkled. He liked it. He decided to kill her. He pressed the knifepwint harder, and twisted. She said, "Little boy -- " and started to cry. Memories assailed Steven; Jump for God's sake, little boy Distrust. Kill her. My little boy... my son... His knifepoint wavered. He scowled. Don't run away, little boy -- we won't hurt you. ,... Kill. Tears were rolling down her cheeks. My son, my baby... I'm crying because I have to go away for a long time... Steven stepped back. She was weaponless, and a woman -- whatever that was. Leaves rustled. Steven and the girl froze motionless. It was only a squirrel in the bushes. He bent silently, looked around under the leafy green bushes that surrounded them, almost at groundIcvel. If there had been men nearby, he could have seen their legs. He saw nothing. He kept one eye on the girl as he bent. She wasn't crying, now that he'd taken the knife away. She was watching him and rubbing her belly where he'd pressed it. When he straightened, she took a step aw'ay from the tree, moving as silently as he ever had. Suddenly she stooped to pick up her knife, made a slashing motion at the ground with it, looked up at him. He was in mid-air. On her. She flattened beneath him with a squeal. She was stronger than he was, and e.perienced. She brought her knife back over her shoulder, and if he hadn't ducked his head it would have laid his face open. When she brought it down for another try, he clublred the back of her hand with the hilt of his knife, and she gasped and dropped it. Astride her, he raised his knife to kill her. She was pointing with her left hand, frantically, at something that lay on the ground beside them, and saying, "No, no, little boy, no, no -- " Then she just whimpered, knowing that his knife was poised, and kept stabbing her finger at the ground. Because she was helpless, he paused, looked, and saw a stuirrel lying there, head bleeding. He understood. She hadn't been trying to kill him. She had seen the squirrel, and gotten it. He decided to kill her anyway. For the squirrel. "No, little boy -- " He hesitated. "Friends, little boy... After a moment he rolled off her. She sat up, cheeks tear-streaked. She pointed at the squirrel, then at Steven, and shook her head violently. Knife threatening her, he reached out to pick up the squirrel. Mine, the knife said. At that point the squirrel, which had been only momentarily stunned by her blow, shook itself and scrambled for the bushes. His hand missed it by inches. He lunged for it, flat on his belly, and caught its tail with one hand. As another squirrel's tail had done long ago, this one broke off. He lay there for a moment, .snarling, the tail in his hand; and when he turned over, the girl had her knife in her hand and her teeth were bared at him. Blue eyes blazing, he got to his feet, expecting her to attack any second. He dropped the tail. He crouched to fight. She didn't attack. Nor, for some reason, did he. The way her chapped lips were stretched back over her teeth disturbed him... or rather it unsettled him, because it didn't disturb him. At least not the way a snarl did. It didn't put him on guard, every muscle tense; it didn't make him feel that he had to fight. She didn't look angry or eager to have anything he had or ready to kill... he didn't know the word for how she looked. She weighed her knife in her hand. Then she struck it in her belt, and said again, "Friends, little boy." He stared. At her strange snarl that wasn't a snarl. At the knife she had put away. He had never seen anyone do that before. Slowly he felt his own lips curl back into an expression he could hardly remember. He felt the way he felt sometimes late at night when, safe and alone in his room, he would play a little with his toys. more. He left like... like friends. He looked at the squirrel tail lying on the ground. He worried it with a foot, then kicked it away. It wa.sn't good to eat -- and he thought of how the squirrel had looked scrambling off, and felt his lips stretch tighter. He tried to think of the word. Finally it came. "Funny squirrel," he said, through his tight lips. He stuck his knife in his belt. They stared at each other, feeling each other's pleasure at the peacemaking. She bent, picked up a small stone and flipped it at him. He made no attempt to catch it, and it struck him on the hip. He halfcrouched, instantly wary, hand on knife. A thrown stone had only one meaning. But she was still smiling, and she shook her head. "No, little boy," she said. "Play." She tossed another stone, high in the air. He reached out and caught it as it descended. He started to toss it back to her, and remembered only at the last moment not to hurl it at her head. He tossed it, and she missed it. He grinned at her. She tossed another one back at him, and he missed, and they both grinned. Then he grunted, remembering something from the dim past. He picked up a small fallen branch from the ground. When he looked up, she was poised to run. This time he shook his head, waving the stick gently. "Play," he said. She threw another stone, eyes warily on the stick. He swung, missed. He hit the next one, and the sharp crack, and the noise the stone made rattling off into the bushes, flattened him to the ground, eyes searching for sign of men. She was beside him. He smelled her body and her breath. They saw no one. He looked at her lying beside him. She was grinning again. Then she laughed; and, without knowing what he was doing or why -- he could hardly remember ever doing it before -- he laughed too. It felt good. Like the snarl that wasn't a snarl, only better. It seemed to come from way inside. He laughed again, sitting up. He laughed a third time, tight hesitant sounds that came out of his throat and stretched his lips until they wouldn't stretch any more. Tears were on his cheeks, and he was laughing very tightly, very steadily, and she was laughing the same way, and they lay that way for a few minutes until they were trembling and their stomachs ached, and the laughter was almost crying. He saw her face, so close by, and felt an impulse. He rolled over and started to scuffle with her. When she realized that he wasn't trying to kill her, that he was playing, she scuffled back, rubbing his face in the dirt harder than he had hers, because she was stronger. He spat dirt and grass and grinned at her, and they fell apart. Footsteps. and so was hers. Legs moved on the other side of the bushes, stopped. Silently, almost stepping between the leaves on the gi'ound, Steven and the girl crawled out the other side of the bushes and took up positions against treetrunks, just enough of their heads protruding to see around. A man came probing into the head-high bushes from the path side... stood there a moment looking around, only a vague brown shape through the leaves. He grunted, went out to the path again, walked on. Steven and the girl followed him by his sounds, trailing about twenty feet behind, until Steven got a good look at him when he passed an open space between the bushes. He was a big man in brownishgreen clothes -- new-looking clothes, not full of holes. He walk almost carelessly, as if he didn't care who heard him. And Steven saw the reason for that. Men with guns always walked louder. This man wore a bolstered gun at his belt, and carried another one -- a long gun something like a rifle, only bulkier. Steven's lips curled. He darted a look at the girl. Across his mind flashed the vague idea of sharing whatever the man had with her, but he didn't know how to let her know. She was looking at the guns, eyes wide. Afraid. She shook her head. Steven snarled silently at her, put a hand on her chest, shoved gently. She stayed there as he moved on. Silently he drifted from tree to tree, bush to bush, getting ahead of his quarry. The big man's shoes clumped noisily along. Steven had no trouble telling where he was. At last Steven spotted a good tree a thick-foliaged one about forty feet up the path, where the sun would be in the man's eyes. If the man kept following the path -- He did. And when he passed below the tree, Steven was waiting on the low branch that overhung the path -- waiting with his face taut and his eyes staring and his knife ready. One stab at the base of the skull, and the guns would be his. He jumped. They brought them into the camp. By this time Steven and the girl had found that their captors were far too strong and too many to escape from, and quite adept at protecting themselves from the foulest of blows. But still the two of them struggled now and then, panting like animals. Everything at the camp, which was over on Long Island, near Flushing Bay, was neat and trim and olive-drab, and it was almost evening now, and as the jeep rolled up the avenue between the rows of tents Steven and the girl stopped struggling to blink at the first artificial lights they'd seen in a very long time. In the lieutenant's tent, the big man Steven had tried to kill said to the man behind the desk, "Like a jaguar, sir. Right out of the tree he came. I had him spotted, of course, but he did a peach of a job of trailing me. If I hadn't been ready for him. I'd be a dogtag." The lieutenant looked at Steven and the girl, standing before him, and the four soldiers who stood behind them, one to each strong dirty young arm. "The others got the girl, eh?" he said. "Yessir. When we first heard 'em, I started making enough noise to cover the rest of the boys." The sergeant grinned. "I swear, he came at me as neat as any commando ever did." "God." said the lieutenant, and closed his eyes for a moment. "What a thing. Let this war be the last one, Sipich. So this is what happened to New York in six years. Maniacs. Murderers. Worst of all, wolf-children. And the rest of the country..." "Well, we're back now, sir. We can start putting it all back together -- " "God," said the lieutenant again. "Do you think the pieces will fit?" He looked at Steven. "What is your name, son?" Steven snarled. "Take them away," said the lieutenant wearily. "Feed them. Delouse them. Send them to the Georgia camp." "They'll be okay, sir. In a year or so they'll be smiling all over the place, taking an interest in things. Kids arc kids, sir." "Are they? These kids, Sipich?... I don't know. I just don't know." The sergeant gave an order, and the four soldiers urged Steven and the girl out of the tent. There was a bleat of pain as one of the children placed a kick. The sergeant started to follow his men out. At the tent flaps he paused. "Sir... maybe you'd like to know: we found these two because they were playing and laughing. We were scouting the park, and heard them laughing." "They were?" said the lieutenant, looking up from the forms he was Ailing out. "Playing?" "It's still there, sir. Deep down. It has to be." "I sec," said the lieutenant slowly. "Yes, I suppose it is. And now we've got to dig it up." "Well... we buried it, sir."    With Gfd... all things are possible! A XA.re you facing difficuli Broblemt. Poor Htslth Mome or )ob Troublet? Love or Femit Troubles? Are you Worried ibouc someone dear lo you? Is some one deal lo you Ofinkini too Much? Do you ever get Lonely -- Vmboppy -- Diseournged? Would you like to have more Hoppimess, Success and "Good fortune" io Life? If you do have any of these Problems, or others like them, dear friend, theo here is thousands of other men and women to gloyouand very, very quickly too! So dont wait, dear friend. Don't let another minute go by! If you are troubled, worried CO clip this Messoge now and mail with #c in helping so many others and may just as You will surely bless this day -- so pinse don't delay! Just clip this Message now and ouil with your name, address and #c in # Noroton, Comm. We will rush this They said old Doctor Price was an inventive genius but no miracle worker. Yet -- if he didn't work miracles in behalf of an over-worked little guy named Cupid, what was he doing?. Hammeistead, Attorneys, from: Walter Gordon Dear Bill: Enclosed is the itemized inventory of the furnishings of the late Dr. Edward Price's estate. As you requested, I personally examined the laboratory. Candidly, Bill, you needed a psychiatrist for the job, not a graduate physicist. Dr. Price was undoubtedly an inventive genius a decade ago when he was still active in General Electronics, but his lab was an embarrassing example of senile clutter. You had an idea. Bill, that before he died Price might have been playing around with a new invention which the estate could develop and patent. I found a score of gadgets in the lab, none of them finished and none of them built for any functional purpose that I could discover. Only two seemed to be completed. One resembled a small, portable radio. It was a plastic case with two knobs and a two-inch speaker grid. There was no cord outlet. The machine may have been powered by batteries, for I heard a faint humming when I turned the knobs. Nothing else. Dr. Price had left a handwritten card on the box. He intended to call it a Semantic-Translator, but he had noted that the word combination was awkward for commercial exploitation, and I suppose he held up a patent application until he could think of a catchier name. One sentence on that card would have amused you, Bill. Price wrote, "Should wholesale for about threefifty per unit." Even in his dotage, he had an eye for profit. The Semantic-Translator -- whatever that may mean -- might have had possibilities. I fully intended to take it back with me to General Electronics and examine it thoroughly. The second device, which Price had labeled a Transpositor, was large and rather fragile. It was a hollow cylinder of very small wires, perhaps a foot in diameter, fastened to an open-faced console crowded with a weird conglomeration of vacuum tubes, telescopic lenses and mirrors. The cylinder of wires was so delicate that the motion of my body in the laboratory caused it to quiver. Standing in front of the wire coil were two brass rods. A kind of shovel-like chute was fixed to one rod (Price called it the shipping board). Attached to the second rod was a long-handled pair of tongs which he called the grapple. The Transpositor was, I think, an outgrowth of Price's investigation of the relationship between light and matter. You may recall. he wrote on that subject when he was stiU working in the laboratories of General Electronics. At the time Price was considered something of a pioneer. He believed that light and matter were different forms of the same basic element; he said that eventually science would learn how to change one into the other. I seriously believe that the Transpositor was meant to do precisely that. In other words. Price had expected to transpose the atomic structure of solid matter into light, and later to reconstruct the original matter again. Now don't assume. Bill, that Price was wandering around in a senile delusion of fourth dimensional nonsense. The theory may be sound. Our present knowledge of the physical world makes the basic structure of matter more of a mystery than it has ever been. Not that I think Price achieved the miracle. Even in his most brilliant and productive period he could not have done it. As yet our accumulation of data is too incomplete for such an experiment. I believe that Price created no more than a very reali.stic illusion with his arrangement of lenses and mirrors. I saw the illusion, too; I used the machine. There were two dials on the front of the console. One was lettered "time", and the other "distance". The "time" dial could be set for eons, centuries or hours, depending upon the position of a three-way switch beneath it; the "distance" dial could be adjusted to light years, thousand-mile units, or kilometers by a similar device. Since there was no indication which position would produce what results, I left the dials untouched. I plugged the machine into an electric outlet and pushed the starter button. The coil of wire blazed with light and the chute slid rapidly in and out of the cylinder. That was all, at first. The starter button was labeled "the shipper", and I gathered that Price had visualized the practical application of tlie Transpositor as a device for transporting goods from one point to another. I looked around the lab for something I could put into the chute. There was a card, written in red, warning me not to load beyond the dimensional limits of the chute. The only thing I saw that was small enough was the little radio-like gadget Price had called a Semantic-Translator. Loaded horizontally, it just barely fit the chute. I pushed the shipper button a second time. Again there was a blaze of light, brighter than before, which temporarily blinded me. For a moment I saw the SemanticTranslator in the heart of the fragile, wire cylinder. It had the glow of molten steel, pouring from a blast furnace. Then it was gone. The chute shot back to the front of the machine. The tray was empty. Was it an illusion? I believe that, Bill, because later on, when I thought of using the grapple... the gravel trail from the dressing room. The early morning sun was bright and warm, but she held her woolen robe tight across her throat. She tried to avoid looking at the other camps -- at the sleepyeyed women coming out of tents, and the men starting morning fires in the stone rings. Bitterness was etched in acid in her soul. She made herself believe it was because she hated Yosemitc. The vacation had been such a disappointment. She had expected so much and -- as usual -- it had all gone wrong. Her hope had been so high when school closed; this year was going to be different! "Are you going anywhere this summer?" Miss Emmy asked after the last faculty meeting in June. "To Yosemite for a couple of weeks, I think." "The Park's always crowded. You ought to meet a nice man up there, Bertha." "I'm not interested in men," Miss Kent had replied frostily. "I'm a botany teacher and it helps me professionally if I spend part of the summer observing the phenomenon of nature." "Don't kid me, Bertha. You can drop the fancy lingo, too; school's out. You want a man as much as I do." That was true. Miss Kent admitted -- in the quiet of her own mind. Never aloud ; never to anyone else. Six years ago, when Bertha Kent had first started to teach, she had been optimistic about it. She wanted to marry; she wanted a family of her own -- instead of wasting her lifetime in a high school classroom playing baby sitter for other people's kids. She had saved her money for all sorts of exotic summer vacations -- tours, cruises, luxury hotels -- but somehow something always went wrong. To be sure, she had met men. She was pretty; she danced well; she was never prudish; she liked the out-of-doors. All positive qualities: she knew that. The fault lay always with the men. When she first met a stranger, everything was fine. Then, slowly. Miss Kent began to see his faults. Men were simply adult versions of the musclebound knot-heads the administration loaded into her botany classes. Bertha Kent wanted something better, an ideal she had held in her mind since her childhood. The dream-inan was real, too. She had met him once and actually talked to him when she was a child. She couldn't remember where; she couldn't recall his face. But the qualities of his personality she knew as she did her own heart. If they had existed once in one man, she would find them again, somewhere. That was the miracle she prayed for every summer. She thought the miracle had happened again when she first came to Yosemite. She found an open campsite by the river. While she was putting up her tent, the man from the camp beside hers came to help. At first he seemed the prototype of everything she hated -- a good-looking, beautifully co-ordinated physical specimen, as sharp-witted as a jellyfish. The front of his woolen shirt hung carelessly unbuttoned. She saw the mat of dark hair on his chest, the sculpted curves of suntanned muscle. No doubt he considered himself quite attractive. Then, that evening after the firefall, the young man asked her to go with him to the ranger's lecture at Ccunp Curry. Bertha discovered that he was a graduate physicist, employed by a large, commercial laboratory. They had at least the specialized area of science in common. By the time they returned from the lecture, they were calling each other by first names. The next day Walt asked her to hike up the mist trail with him to Nevada Falls. The familiar miracle began to take shafje. She lay awake a long time that night, looking at the dancing pattern of stars visible through the open flap of her tent. This was it; Walt was the reality of her dream. She made herself forget that every summer for six years the same thing had happened. She always believed she had found her miracle; and always something happened to destroy it. For two days the idyll lasted. The inevitable awakening began the afternoon they drove along the Wawona highway to see the Mariposa Grove of giant sequoias. They left their car in the parking area and walked through the magnificent stand of cathedral trees. The trail was steep and sometimes treacherous. Twice Walt took her arm to help her. For some reason that annoyed her; finally she told him, "I'm quite able to look after myself, Walt." "So you've told me before." "After all. I've been hiking most of my life. I know exactly what, to do -- " "There isn't much you can't take care of for yourself, is there, Bertha?" His voice was suddenly very cold. "I'm not one of these rattlebrained chnging vines, if that's what you mean. I detest a woman who is always yelping to a man for help." "Independence is one thing, Bertha; I like that in a woman. But somehow you make a man feel totally inadequate. You set yourself up as his superior in everything." "That's nonsense, Walt. I'm quite ready to grant that you know a good deal more about physics than I do." "Say it right, Bertha. You respect tlie fact that I hold a PhD." He smiled. "That isn't the same thing as resjecting me for a per.son. I knew you didn't need my help on the trail, but it was a normal courtesy to offer it. It seems to me it would be just as normal fur you to areejjt it. Little things like that are important in relations between people." "Forget it. Walt.' She slipped her hand through his. "There, see? I'll do it just the way you want." She was determined not to quarrel over anything so trivial, though what he said seemed ehildish and it tarnished the dream a little. But the rest was still good; the miracle could still happen. Yet, in sj)ite of all her effort, they disagreed twice more before they left the Mariposa Grove. Bertha began to see Walt as he was; brilliant, no doubt, in the single area of physii al science, but basically no difl'erent from any other man. She desperately wished that she could love him ; she earnestly wished that the ideal, fixed so long in her mind, might be destroyed. But slowly she saw the miracle slip away from her. That night, after the fire-fall, Walt did not ask her to go with him to the lecture. Miserable and angry, Bertha Kent went into her tent, but not to sleep. She lay staring at the night sky, and thinking how ugly the pinpoint lights of distant suns were on the velvet void. As the hours passed, she heard the clatter of pans and voices as people at the other campsites retired. She heard Walt when he returned, whistling tunelessly. He banged around for nearly an hour in the camp ni.'xt to hers. He dropped a stack of pans; he overturned a box of food; he tripped over a tent line. She wondered if he were drunk. Had their (juarreling driven him to that? Walt must have lov( d her, then. After a time all the Coleman lanterns in the camp were out. Still Bertha Kent did not sleep. The acid gri('f and bitt-rness tormented her with the ghost of another failure, another shattered dream. She listened to the soft music of the flowing stream, the gentle whisper of summer wind in the pines, but it gave her no peace. Suddenlv she heard quiet footsteps and the crackling of twigs behind her tent. She was terrified. It must he Walt. If he had come home drunk, he could have planned almost anv kind of violence by way of revenge. The footsteps moved rinser. Bertha shook ofT the paralysis of fear and reached for her electric lantern. She flashed the beam into the darkness. She saw the black bulk of a bear who was pawing through her food box. She was so relieved she forgot that a bear might also be a legitimate cause of fear. She ran from the tent, swinging tlie light and shooing the animal away as she would have chased a puppy. The bear swung toward her, roaring and clawing at the air. She backed away. The bear swung its paws again, and her food box shattered on the ground, in a crescendo of sound. Bertha heard rapid footsteps under the pines. In the pale moonlight she saw Walt. He was wearing only a pair of red-striped boxer shorts. He was swinging his arms and shouting, but the noise of the falling box had already frightened the bear away. Walt stood in the moonlight, smiling foolishly. "I guess I came too late," he said. "I'm quite sure the bear would have left of its own accord, Walt. They're always quite tame in the national parks, you know." As soon as she said it, she knew it was a mistake. Even though he had done nothing, it would have cost her little to thank him. The words had come instinctively; she hadn't thought how her answer would affect him. Walt turned on his heel stiffly and walked back to his tent. With a little forethought -- a little kindness -- Bertha might even then have rescued her miracle. She knew that. She knew she had lost him now, for good. For the first time in her life she saw the dream as a barrier to her happiness, not an ideal. It held her imprisoned; it gave her nothing in exchange. She slept fitfully for the rest of the night. As soon as the sun was up, she pulled on her woolen robe and went to the dressing room to wash. She walked back along the gravel path, averting her eyes from the other camps and the men hunched over the smoking breakfast fires. She hated Yosemite. She hated all the people crowded around her. She had made up her mind to pack her tent and head for home. This was just another vacation lost, another year wasted. She went into her tent and put on slacks and a bright, cotton blouse. Then she sat disconsolate at her camp table surveying the mess the bear had made of her food box. There was nothing that she could rescue. She could drive to the village for breakfast, but the shops wouldn't open for another hour. Behind her she heard Walt starting his Coleman stove. Yesterday he would have offered her breakfast ; now he'd ignored her. All along the stream camp fires were blazing in the stone rings. Bertha wondered if she could ask the couple on the other side of her campsite for help. They had attempted to be friendly once before, and Bertha hadn't responded with a great deal of cordiality. They weren't the type she liked -- a frizzyheaded, coarse-voiced blonde, and a paunchy old man who hadn't enough sense to know what a fool he looked parading around camp in the faded bathing trunks he wore all day. Suddenly a light flashed in Bertha's face. A metal shovel slid out of nothingness and deposited a tiny, rectangular box on the table. For a long minute she stared at the box stupidly, vaguely afraid. Her mind must be playing her tricks. Such things didn't happen. She reached out timidly and touched the box. It seemed real enough. A miniature radio of some sort, with a two-inch speaker. She turned the dials. She heard a faint humming. The coarse-voiced blonde came toward the table. "We just heard what happened last night, Miss Kent," she said. "Me and George. About the bear, I mean." Bertha forced a .smile. "It made rather a shambles, didn't it?" "Gee, you can't make breakfast out of a mess like this. Vhy don't you come and eat with us?" The blonde went on talking, apologizing for what she was serving and at the same time listing it with a certain pride. Strangely, Miss Kent heard not one voice, but two. The second came tinnily from the little box on the table, "You poor, dried-up old maid. That guy who's been hanging around would have been over long before this, if you knew the first thing about being nice to a man." Bertha gasped. "Really, if that's the way you feel -- " "Why, honey, I just asked you over for breakfast," the blonde answered ; at the same time the voice from the machine said, "I suppose George and me ain't good enough for you. O.K. by me, sister. I didn't really want you to come anyway." Trembling, Miss Kent stood up. "I've never been so insulted!" "What's eating you. Miss Kent?" The blonde seemed genuinely puzzled, but again the voice came from the plastic box, "The old maid's off her rocker. You'd think she was reading my mind." Switching her trim little hips, the blonde w'alked back to her own camp. Bertha Kent dropped numbly on the bench, staring at the ugly box. "Reading my mind," the woman had said. Somehow the machine had done precisely that, translating the blonde's spoken words into the real, emotional meaning behind them. It was a terrifying gadget. Bertha was hypnotized by its potential horror -- like the brutal, devasting trutli spoken by a child. A camper walked past on the road, waving at Miss Kent and calling out a cheerful good morning. But again the machine read the real meaning behind the pleasant words. "So you've finally lost your man. Miss Kent. The way you dished out the orders, it's a wonder he stayed around as long as he did. And a pity: you're an attractive woman. You should jnake some man a good wife." They all thought that. The whole camp had been watching her, laughing at her. Bertha felt helpless and alone. She needed -- wanted -- someone else; it surprised her when she faced that fact. Then it dawned on her: the camper was right; the blonde was right. She had lost Walt through her own ridiculous bull-headedness. In order to assert herself. To be an individualist, she had always thought. And what did that matter, if it imposed this crushing loneliness? For a moment a kind of madness seized her. It was tlie diabolical machine that was tormenting her, not the truth it told. She snatched a piece of her broken food box and struck at the plastic case blindly. There was a splash of fire; the gadget broke. She .saw Walt look up from his stove. She saw him move toward her. But she stood paralyzed by a shattering trauma of pain. The voice still came from the speaker, and this time it was her own. Her mind was stripped naked; she saw herself whole, unsheltered by the protective veneer of rationalization. And she knew the pattern of the dream-man she had loved since her childhood; she knew why the dream had been self-defeating. For the idealization was her own father. That impossible paragon created by the worship of a child. The shock was its own cure. She was too well-balanced to accept the tempting escape of total disorientation. Grimly she fought back the tide of madness, and in that moment she found maturity. She ran toward Walt, tears of gratitude in her eyes. She felt his arms around her, and she clung to him desperately. "I was terrified; I needed you, Walt; I never want to be alone again." "Needed me?" he repeated doubtfully. "I love you." After a splitsecond's hesitation, she felt his lips warm on hers. From the corner of her eye she saw a chute dart out of nowhere and scoop up the broken plastic box from the camp table. They both vanished again. That was a miracle, too, she supposed; but not nearly as important as hers. Then the reason of a logical mind asserted its own form of realism: of course, none of it had happened. The mind-reading gadget had been a device created in her own subconscious, a psychological trick to by-pass the dream that had held her imprisoned. She knew enough psychology to understand that. She ran her fingers through Walt's dark hair and repeated softly, "I love you, Walt Gordon." W AS IT an illusion? I believe that. Bill, because later on, when I thought of using the grapple, I brought the Semantic-Translator back from nowhere. Apparently the smaller gadget had been in the console or behind it. I hadn't seen it when I searched, because my eyes had been hurt by the glare of light. In the process the Translator somehow got twisted around, for the chute dragged it back vertically through the coil of wire. It touched the wall of the cylinder, and the whole machine exploded. It was impossible to save anything from the wreckage. But as a physicist I assure you. Bill, the transposition of matter into light is, in terms of our present science, a physical impossibility. It is certainly not the sort of invention that could have been produced by a senile old man, pottering around in a home laboratory. The only thing I regret is that I had no opportunity to examine the Semantic-Translator, but I'm sure it would have proved just as much nonsense. I'm going up to Yosemite tomorrow for a couple of weeks. If you want any further details on the Price inventory, look me up at the office when I come home. Yours, Walt Gordon    -- in the privacy of your own home! No gadgets -- nothing to buy -- yet these simple methods offer effective relief for over #  of people who now suffer from back pains!  aching across your upper bock  fatigue in your shoulders e soreness shooting from base of neck lo back of head and downward e weakness in hips and loins  shooting pain down your right or left leg  or other musculor discomforts Trouble." It takes the mystery out of back ailments... tolls you what to do for relief from: slipped disc, sacroiliac pains, lumbago, sciatica, twists, sprains, etc. Offers you positive help for almost A well-known Philadelphia orthopaedic surgeon says: "I commend without reservation the views expressed in this book." Then either remit the low price of # plus postage -- or return Englaweed Cliffa, Naw Jartay end of that time, I will either tend you just # plua postage in fiU payment -- or return the book and owe nothmg. Noma Address ;c s Illustrated by Ed Emsh Women on space station assignments shouldn't get pregnant. But there's a first time for everything. Here's the story of such a time and an historic situation. O NE thousand seventy-five miles above the wrinkled surface of Earth, a woman was in pain. There, high in the emptiness of space. Space Station One swung in its orbit. Once every two hours, tlie artificial satellite looped completely around the planet, watching what went on below. Outside its bright steel hull was the silence of the interplanetary vacuum; inside, in the hospital ward. Lieutenant Alice Britton clutched at the sheets of her bed in pain, then relaxed as it faded away. Major Banes looked at her and smiled a little. "How do you feel, Lieutenant?" She smiled back; she knew the pain wouldn't return for a few minutes yet. "Fine, doctor. It's no worse than I was expecting. How long will it before we can contact White Sands?" The major looked nervously at his wristwatch. "Nearly an hour. You'll be all right." "Certainly," she agreed, running a hand through her brown hair, "I'll bo okay. Just you be on tap when I call." The major's grin broadened. "You don't think I'd miss a historical event like this, do you? You take it easy. We're over Eastern Europe now, but as soon as we get within radio range of New Mexico, I'll beam a call in." He paused, then repeated, "You just take it easy. Call the nurse if anything happens." Then he turned and walked out of the room. Alice Britton closed her eyes. Major Banes was all smiles and cheer now, but he hadn't been that way five months ago. She chuckled softly to herself as she thought of his blistering speech. "Lieutenant Britton, you're either careless or brainless; I don't know which! Your husband may be the finest rocket jockey in the Space Service, but that doesn't give him the right to come blasting up here on a supply rocket just to get you pregnant!" Alice had said: "I'm sure the thought never entered his mind, doctor. I know it never entered mine." "But that was two and a half months ago! Why didn't you come to me before this? Of all the tomfool -- " His voice had died off in supressed anger. "I didn't know," she had said stolidly. "You know my medical record." "I know. I know." A puzzled frown had come over his face then, a frown which almost hid the green eyes that contrasted so startlingly with the flaming red of his hair. "The question is: what do we do ne.xt? We're not equipped for obstetrics up here." "Send me back down to Earth, of course." And he had looked up at her scathingly. "Lieutenant Britton, it is my personal opinion that you need your head examined, and not by a general practitioner, either! Why, I wouldn't let you get into an airplane, much less land on Earth in a rocket! If you think I'd permit you to subject yourself to eight gravities of acceleration in a rocket landing, you're daffy!" She hadn't thought of it before, but the major was right. The terrible pressure of a rocket landing would increase her effective body weight to nearly half a ton; an adult hiunan being couldn't take that sort of punishment for long, much less the tiny life that was growing within her. So she had stayed on in the Space Station, doing her job as always. As Chief Radar Technician, she was important in the operation of the station. Her pregnancy had never made her uncomfortable; the slow rotation of the wheelshaped station about its axis gave an effective gravity at the rim only half that of Earth's surface, and the closer to the hub she went, the less her weight became. According to the major, the baby was due sometime around the first of September. "Two hundred and eighty days," he had said. "Luckily, we can pinpoint it almost exactly. And at a maximum of half of Earth gravity, you shouldn't weigh more than seventy pounds then. You're to report to me at least once a week. Lieutenant." As the words went through her mind, another spasm of pain hit her, and she clenched her fists tightly on the sheets again. It went away, and she took a deep breath. Everything had been fine until today. And then, only half an hour ago, a meteor had hit the radar room. It had been only a tiny bit of rock, no bigger than a twentytwo bullet, and it hadn't been traveling more than ten miles per second, but it had managed to punch its way through the shielding of the station. The self-sealing walls had closed the tiny hole quickly, but even in that short time, a lot of air had gone whistling out into the vacuum of space. The depressurization hadn't hurt her too much, but the shock had been enough to start labor. The baby was going to come two months early. She relaxed a little more, waiting for the next pain. There was nothing to worry about; she had absolute faith in the red-haired major. The major himself was not so sure. He sat in his office, massaging his fingertips and looking worriedly at the clock on the wall. The Chief Nurse at a nearby desk took off her glasses and looked at him speculatively. "Something wrong, doctor?" "Incubator," he said, without taking his eyes off the clock. "I beg your pardon?" "Incubator. We can't deliver a seven-month preemie without an incubator." The nurse's eyes widened. "Good Lord! I never thought of that! What are you going to do?" "Right now, I can't do anything. I can't beam a radio message through the Earth. But as soon as we get within radio range of White Sands, I'll ask them to send up an emergency rocket with an incubator. But -- " "But what?" "Will we have time? The pains are coming pretty fast now. It will be at least three hours before they can get a ship up here. If they miss us on the next time around, it'll be five hours. She can't hold out that long." The Chief Nurse turned her eyes to the slowly moving second hand of the wall clock. She could feel a lump in her throat. Major Banes was in the Communications Center a full five minutes before the coastline of California appeared on the curved horizon of the globe beneath them. He had spent the hour typing out a complete report of what had happened to Alice Britton and a list of what he needed. He handed it to the teletype operator and paced the floor impatiently as he waited for the answer. When the receiver teletype began clacking softly, he leaned over the page, waiting an.iousIy for every word. Banes nodded and turned to the operator. "I want a direct open telephone line to my office in case I have to get another message to the base before we get out of range again." He turned and left through the heavy door. Each room of the space station was protected by airtight doors and individual heating units; if some accident, such as a really large meteor hit, should release the air from one room, nearby rooms would be safe. Banes' next stop was the hospital ward. Alice Britton was resting quietly, but there were lines of strain around her eyes which hadn't been there an hour before. "How's it coming, Lieutenant?" She smiled, but another spasm hit her before she could answer. After a time, she said; "I'm doing fine, but you look as if you'd been through the mill. What's eating you?" He forced a nervous smile. "Nothing but the responsibility. You're going to be a very famous woman, you know. You'll be the mother of the first child born in space. And it's my job to sec to it that you're both all right." She grinned. "Another Dr. Dafoe?" "Something on that order, I suppose. But it won't be all my glory. Colonel Gates, the O.B. man, was supposed to come up for the delivery in September, so when White Sands contacted us, they said he was coming immediately." He pau.sed, and a genuine smile crossed his face. "Your husband is bringing him up." "Jim! Coming up here? Wonderful! But I'm afraid the colonel Vv-ill be too late. This isn't going to last that long." Banes had to fight hard to keep his face smiling when she said that, but he managed an easy nod. "We'll see. Don't hurry it, though. Let nature take its course. I'm not such a glory hog that I'd not let Gates have part of it -- or all of it, for that matter. Relax and take it easy." He went on talking, tr'ing to keep the conversation light, but his eyes kept wandering to his wristwatch, timing Alice's pain intervals. They were coming too close together to suit him. There was a faint rap, and the heavy airtight door swung open to admit the Chief Nurse. "There's a message for you in your office, doctor. I'll send a nurse in to be with her." He nodded, then turned back to Alice. "Stiff uppah lip, and all that sort of rot," he said in a phony British accent. "Oh, TZiwtheT, old chap," she grinned. Back in his office. Banes picked up the teletype flimsy. B anes sat on the edge of his desk, pounding a fist into the palm of his left hand. "Two hours. It isn't soon enough. She'll never hold out that long. And we don't have an incubator." His voice was a clipped monotone, timed with the rhythmic slamming of his fist. The Chief Nurse said: "Can't we build something that will do until the rocket gets here?" Bancs looked at her, his face expressionless. "What would we build it out of? There's not a spare piece of equipment in the station. It costs money to ship material up here, you know. Anything not essential is left on the ground." The phone rang. Banes picked it up and identified himself. The voice at the other end said: "This is Communications, Major. I tape recorded all the monitor pickups from the Earth radio stations, and it looks as though the Space Service has released the information to the public. Lieutenant Britton's husband was right when he said the whole world's praying for her. Do you want to hear the tapes?" "Not now, but thanks for the information." He hung up and looked into the Chief Nurse's eyes. "They've released the news to the public." She frowned. "That really puts you on the spot. If the baby dies, they'll blame you." Bancs slammed his fist to the desk. "Do you think I give a tinker's dam about that? I'm interested in saving a life, not in worrying about what people may think!" "Yes, sir. I just thought -- " "Well, think about something useful! Think about how we're going to save that baby!" He paused as he saw her eyes. "Fm sorry. Lieutenant. My nerves are all raw, I guess. But, dammit, my field is space medicine. I can handle depressurization, space sickness, and things like that, but I don't know anything about babies! I know what I read in medical school, and I watched a delivery once, but that's all I know. I don't even have any references up here; people aren't supposed to go around having babies on a space station!" "It's all right, doctor. Shall I prepare the delivery room?" His laugh was hard and short. "Delivery room! I wish to Heaven we had one! Prepare the ward room next to the one she's in now, I guess. It's the best we have. "So help me Hannah, I'm going to see some changes made in regulations! A situation like this won't happen again!" The nurse left quietly. She knew Banes wasn't really angry at the Brittons; it was simply his way of letting off steam to ease the tension within him. The slow, monotonous rotation of the second hand on the wall clock seemed to drag time grudgingly along with it. Banes wished he could smoke to calm his raw nerves, but it was strictly against regulations. Air was too precious to be used up by smoking. Every bit of air on board had had to be carried up in rockets when the station was built in space. The air purifiers in the hydroponics section could keep the air fresh enough for breathing, but fire of any kind would overtax the system, leaving too little oxygen in the atmosphere. It was a few minutes of ten when he decided he'd better get back to Alice Britton. She was trying to read a book between spasms, but she wasn't getting much read. She dropped it to the floor when he came in. "Am I glad to see you! It won't be long now." She looked at him analytically. "Say! Just what is eating you? You look more haggard than I do!" Again he tried to force a smile, but it didn't come off too well. "Nothing serious. I just want to make sure everything comes out all right." She smiled. "It will. You're all set. You ordered the instruments months ago. Or did you forget something?" That hit home, but he just grinned feebly. "I forgot to get somebody to boil water." "Whatever for?" "Coffee, of course. Didn't you know that? Papa always heats up the water; that keeps him out of the way, and the doctor has coffee afterwards." Alice's hands grasped the sheet again, and Banes glanced at his watch. Ninety seconds! It was long and hard. When the pain had ebbed away, he said; "We've got the delivery room all ready. It won't be much longer now." "I'll say it won't! How about the incubator?" There was a long pause. Finally, he said softly: "There isn't any incubator. I didn't take the possibility of a premature delivery into account. It's my fault. I've done what I could, though; the ship is bringing one up. I -- I think we'll be able to keep the child alive until -- " He stopped. Alice was bubbling up with laughter. "Lieutenant! Lieutenant Britton! Alice! This is no time to get hysterical! Stop it!" Her laughter slowed to a chuckle. "Me get hysterical! That's a good one! What about you? You're so nervous you couldn't sip water it!" He blinked. "What do you mean?" Another pain came, and he had to wait until it was over before he got her answer. "Doctor," she said, "I thought you would have figured it out. Ask yourself just one question. Ask yourself, 'Why is a space station like an incubator?' " Space Ship Twelve docked at Space Station One at exactly eleven thirty-four, and two men in spacesuits pushed a large, bulky package through the airlock. Major Peter Banes, haggard but smiling, met Captain Britton in the corridor as he and the colonel entered the hospital ward. Banes nodded to Colonel Gates, then turned to Britton. "I don't know whether to congratulate you or take a poke at you, Captain, but I suppose congratulations come first. S'our son, James Edward Britton II, is doing fine, thank you." "You mean -- alrrady?" The colonel said nothing, but he raised an eyebrow. "Over an hour ago," said Bancs. "But -- but -- the incubator -- " Bancs' grin widened. "We'll put the baby in it, now that we've got it, but it really isn't necessary. Your wife figured that one out. A space station is a kind of incubator itself, you sec. It protects us poor, weak humans from the terrible conditions of space. So all we had to do was close up one of the airtight rooms, sterilize it, warm it up, and put in extra oxygen from the emergency tanks. Young James is perfectly comfortable." "Excellent, Major!" said die colonel. "Don't thank me. It was Captain Britton's wife who -- " But Captain Britton wasn't listening any more. He was headed toward his wife's room at top speed. that have startled the # prophecies datinf to the year # A.D. Inter 'w preted In plain, casytounderstand lanfuafe by the # famed Henry C. Roberts.  Nostradamus predictions have never been disproved! Here In one Bif revealinf volume you will find the accuracy. How see what may be In store for os In the fa tore. Clothboand over # Paces. aov-KAiunn. Jut I a f,w vanlt from Noftrarfamw, Cataciramic DaatTactSaa of Gnat accuiAiiiv rat. ItfiloH. teftdee VIp. AMi(e  #AM, Xhanph was the fully accredited ambassador from Gfun, and Earth's first visitor from outer space. History and the amenities called for a tremendous reception. But earth people are funny people... A ll the way over, all through the loneliness of the long trip, he had consoled himself w'i the thought of the reception he would get. How they would crowd around him, how they would gape and cheer! All the most prominent and most important Earthlings would rush to see him, to touch their own appendages to his tentacles, to receive his report of interplanetary good will. His arrival would certainly be the most celebrated occasion in all the history of Earth... He was coming in for a landing, and it was no time for day-dreaming. He brought the ship down slowly, in the middle of a large square, as carefully as if he were settling down among his own people. He gave them a chance to get out from under him before  making contact with the ground. When the ship finally rested firmly , on the strange planet, he gave a ' sigh of relief, and for a few long' seconds sat there motionless. Andthen he began to move toward the door. The increased gravity did not affect him as badly as he had thought it would. For the dense atmosphere, with its high oxygen content, he had of course been prepared. He injected another dose of respiratory enzyme into his bloodstream just to make sure, and then swung open the door. The inrush of air caused only a momentary dizziness. Then he climbed over the side and stared about in surprise. No one was paying any attention to him. Their indifference was so enormous that it struck him like a blow. Individuals of both sexes -- he could easily distinguisli them by the difference in their clothing -- were going about their own business as if he simply were not there. A small animal running about on all fours had its forepart to the ground. It trotted from one place to another, making a slight noise with an organ that he felt sure was used for the intake of o.xygen. When it came to him, it sniffed slightly, without any especial interest, and then ran off to more important business. No other creature paid him even that much attention. Can it be, he asked himself incredulously, that they don't see me? Perhaps tlieir organs of vision make use of different wave lengths. Perhaps to them I and the ship are not pink and gray respectively, but a perfect black which fails to register. I must speak to them, I must make m'self known. They may be startled, but I must take the chance. He rolled over to an individual who towered over him a full spard, and said gravely, "Greetings! I, Xhanph, bring you greetings from the inhabitants of the planet, Gfun. I come with a message of friendship -- " There could be no doubt that the other heard him. And saw him too. He looked straight at Xhanph, muttered something, probably about a pink monster, which Xhanph could guess at but not really interpret, and moved on impatiently. anph stared after him .# with an incredulity that grew by the moment. They didn't understand his language, that he realized. But surely they didn't have to understand in order to be interested. The very sight of his ship, a mere glimpse of him, the first visitor from interplanetary space, should have been enough to bring them flocking around. How could they possibly greet him with such disinterest, with such faces which even to a When you have traveled as far as he had traveled, you don't give up easily. Another, a shorter individual, was coming toward him, and he began again, "Greetings! I, Xhanph -- " This time the individual didn't even stop, but muttered something which must surely have been of the nature of an oath. And hurried on. Xhanph tried five more times before he gave up. If there had been the slightest indication of interest, he would have kept on. But there wasn't. The only feeling he could detect was one of impatience at being annoyed. And he saw that there was nothing else to do but go back to his ship. For a while he sat there, brooding. One possible solution struck him, although it didn't seem at all probable. These people were not representative of their kind. Perhaps this entire area he had taken for a city was nothing more than a retreat for tlie mentally disabled, for those who had found the strain of living too much and had sunk back into a kind of stupor. Perhaps elsewhere the people were more normal. At the thought, he brightened for a moment. Yes, that must be it. Convincing himself against his own better judgment, he lifted the ship into the air again and set it down a few dozen grolls away. But there was no difference. Here, too, the faces looked at him blankly, and people hurried away impatiently when he tried to stop them. He knew now that it was useless to pick up the ship still another time and set it down elsewhere. If there was some rational explanation for such irrational behavior, it could be found here just as well as anywhere else. And explanation there must be. But he would have to look for it. It would not come to him if he simply sat there in the ship and waited for it. He got out and locked the ship so that in case some one finally did show curiosity, no harm would come to it. Then he began to roll around the city. E verywhere he met the same indifference as at first. Even the children stared at him without curiosity, and went on with their games. He stopped to watch -- and to listen. They bounced balls, and as they bounced, they recited words. When something interrupted the even tenor of the game and they had to begin again, they went back to the start of the recitation. Surely, they were counting. Listening carefully, he learned the fundamentals of their system of numerals. At the same time, for the sake of permanence, he made pictorial and auditory records. Every now and then the game would be interrupted by a quarrel. And a childish quarrel, of course, was sure to be full of recriminations. You did this, I did that. He learned the names of the objects with which they played, he learned the words for first and second persons in their different forms. He learned the word for the maternal parent, who seemed to stand in the closest relation to the young ones. By evening he had acquired a fairly good child's grasp of the language. He rolled back in the direction of the ship. When he came to the place where it should be, he had a sudden feeling of panic. The ship was gone. They must have dragged it away. Their whole pretense of indifference must have been a trick, he thought excitedly. They had waited until they could tamper with it without his Interference, in order to learn its secret.s. What had they done with it? Perhaps they had harmed it, possibly they had ruined the drive. How could he ever get off this accursed planet, how would he ever get back to Gfun? He rolled hastily over to the nearest man and tried to put his newfound vocabulary to use. "'Where -- where -- " He realized suddenly that he didn't know the word for ship. "Where galcnfain?" The man looked at him as if he were crazy, and walked on. Xhanph did some swearing on his own account. He began to roll madly around the square, becoming more desperate from moment to moment. Finally, just when he thought he would explode from rage and frustration, he found the ship again. It had been dragged to a neighboring street and left on a vacant lot, surrounded by rusty cans, broken bottles, and various other forms of garbage and rubbish indigenous to this section of the planet. Relief mingled with a feeling of outrage. Xhanph swore again. The indignity of it was enough to start an interplanetary war. If they ever heard of it back on Gfun, they would want to blast this stupid and insulting planet out of existence. He hastened into the ship, and found to his joy that there had been no damage. There was nothing to prevent him from taking off again and getting back to Gfun. But the mystery of his reception still intrigued him. He could not leave without solving it. He rolled out of the ship again and stood there watching it. Evidently they had regarded this miracle of engineering as nothing more than so much rubbish. They would probably leave it alone now. He could let it remain here, and in the meantime carry on his investigating as before. Things would go more rapidly now that he understood some of the elements of human speech. All he had to do was keep his hearing appendages open and interpret the key words as he heard them. It shouldn't take him long. One of the reasons he had been selected to make the trip was that he had a gift for languages, and a day or two more should suffice to establish communications. He left the ship again, and began to roll around the city. He listened to traffic policemen directing the flow of helicopters, he stood by unobtrusively while boy talked with girl -- these conversations turned out to be very limited in scope, as well as uninstructive in syntax -- and he even managed to get into a place of amusement where three dimensional images created in him a sense of nostalgia. From his slight knowledge of the language, he could perceive that the dialogue was so stale that he himself could have supplied it from stories written long ago on his native planet. After a lapse of many hours, the majority of the people disappeared from the streets, and he decided it was time to return to his ship and suspend animation. In the morning he set out again. By the end of that day he felt he could understand the spoken language well enough. What next? To learn the language in written form might take too long, and besides, to solve his mystery he would have to waste time in digging up the recorded forms that contained the necessary information. No, he would have to find some one to talk to, some one who would have the necessary information at his tentacle-tips, or as they called the appendages here, finger-tips. He began to approach various people again, undi.scouraged by their cold and impolite replies. Finally he found the informant he had been seeking, an old, whitehaired individual who was walking slowly, with the aid of a cane, along one of the wider and quieter streets. The man looked at him with calm lack of interest as he approached. Xhanph came to a stop, and said, "Greetings! I, Xhanph, bring you greetings from the inhabitants of the planet, Gfun. I come with a message of friendship." "Very glad to make your acquaintance, sir," said the old man FoliteIy, but still without genuine interest. At last some one who had answered! Xhanph started his portable recording machine going. "I wish for infonnation. Perhaps you can give it to me." "Ah, iny young fellow, I liave seen a great deal and know a great deal. But it isn't very often that vou young ones want to find out what we old folks know." "Perhaps I have not made myself clear. I am an inhabitant of the planet. Gfun." "Yes, indeed. Do you intend to stay here long?" "I have come with a message of friendship. But I have found no one to receive it." "Mnini. That's unfortunate," the old man said. "People are very impatient nowadays. Time is money, they say. t!an't spare the money to stop and talk. Couldn't spare it myself, not so long ago. I'm retired now, though. U.sed to run a stereo store, up around Mudlark Street. Biggest store in the city. Everybody used to buy from me. Jefferson J. Gardner's my name. You may have heard of me on -- where did you .say you come from?" "Gfun. However, I wish to make clear -- " "Never sold any stereos to any one on Gfun. Probably don't get good reception up there. Sold 'em to everybody else, though. I'm well known here, Mr. -- " "Xhanph. But before you go further -- " "Got into the stereo game when they first came out. Went like hotcakes in tho.se days. Although I don't suppose you know what a hotcake is. Quality didn't count. Only thing that counted was size of screen and strength of the threedimensional effect. Mr. Gloopher -- he was M.iyor then -- Robert F. Gloopher -- had a daughter who went in for acting..." Not for the first time, Xhanph cursed this damnable planet. The talk was senile and his conversation rambled wildly like a feather in a strong and particularly erratic whirlwind. Still, he told himself with a touch of philosophy, I have wasted so much time, I can afford to waste a little more. Sooner or later this individual will tell me what I want to know. Half an hour later, however, when Jefferson J. Gardner began to repeat himself, Xpanph realized that he couldn't just wait for the old man to talk himself out. Different tactics were needed. He interrupted rudely. "Why don't people pay any attention to me?" "Eh? What's that you .say?" "I come from the planet, Gfun. I thought that as an interplanetary visitor I would be received with tremendous enthusiasm. Instead I fiml myself disregarded." "I recollect that back in the old days -- " "Never mind that. Why don't people pay any attention to me?" "Why shoulcl they?" "That is no answer!" "But it is, sir," said the old gentleman with dignity. "They don't find you out of the ordinary. Why pay attention to you?" "You mean that you are accustomed to visitors from space?" "No, sir, I mean nothing of the kind. What I do mean is that we are by now thoroughly accustomed to the idea of you. I remember -- " "Never mind what you remember!" "When I was a child, stories about visitors from Mars or Venus were already trite and stereotyped. What could a visitor do? What might a visitor look like? All the fKJssible answers had already been given, and we were familiar with every one of them. We imagined visitors with tentacles and without, with a thousand legs and no legs, with five heads and seven feet, and eighteen stomachs. We imagined visitors who were plants, or electrical impulses, or viruses, or energy-creatures. They had the power to read minds, to move objects telekinetically and to travel through impossible dimensions. Their space ships were of all kinds, and they could race along with many times the speed of light or crawl with the speed of molasses. I do not know, sir, in which category you fall -- whether you are animal, vegetable, mineral, or electrical -- but I know that there is nothing new about you." "But you are familiar merely with the ideas. I am a real visitor!" "Young man, I am a hundred and ten years old, and the idea of you was already ancient when I was eight. I remember reading about you in a comic book. You are not the first visitor who has pretended to be real. There were hundreds before you. I have seen press agent stunts by the dozen, and advertising pictures by the hundreds about Mars, about Venus, about the Moon, about visitors from interstellar space. Your pretended colleagues have walked the streets of innumerable cities, until now we are weary of the entire tribe of you. And you yourself, sir, if you will pardon the expression, you are an anticlimax." "Your race must be insane," protested Xhanph. "For all you know I may come with great gifts which I wish to confer upon you." "We have been fooled before. And in view of the fact, as I have reminded you, that time is money, we do not wish to bankrupt ourselves by investigating." "But suppose I'm here to harm you!" "If your race is capable of it, we can hardly stop you, so it is no use trying. If incapable, you are wasting your efforts." "This is insanity, genuine racial insanity!" "You repeat yourself. The fact is, we have become blas#," said the old man. "Thanks to the efforts of our science fiction writers, we have experienced in imagination all there is to experience in interplanetary contact, and the genuine article can be only a disappointment. I am reminded of an incident that occurred when Gerald Crombie, who was City Councilman at the time, ordered a twenty-five inch stereo set..." his answer now, and he couldn't stand listening any longer to the old man's babbling. He rolled aimlessly, up one street and down another. And he thought of how they would receive his answer when he went back to Gfun. Was it him or the planet that they would consider mad? Almost certainly, they wouldn't believe him. He could imagine the exchange of wondering glances, the first delicate hints that the long trip had deranged him, the not so delicate hints later on when he persisted in sticking to his story. He remembered the high hopes with which he had departed, the messages with which he had been entrusted by the Chief of Planetary Affairs, the Head of the Scientific Bureau, the Director of Economic Affairs, and countless others. And he could imagine the reception he would find when he reported that he had been unable to deliver a single message. How long he rolled in this aimless fashion he did not know. After a time he seemed to come to his senses. It was no use trying to run away from reality, as he was doing. He had to go back to the ship and return to Gfun. Let them believe him or not, his report would tell the truth. And the pictorial and auditory records would confirm his story. What a planet, he thought again. the curiosity, the ordinary intellectual decency, to be interested in him. Not one had the imagination, the awareness -- "Pardon me," said a shrill voice, "E.cuse me for reading thoughts, but I could not help overhearing -- I am a visitor here myself." He swung around. The figure before him was strange, but an aura of friendliness came from it and he knew there was nothing to fear. Nothing to fear -- and much to be thankful for. With a heartfelt double sigh, while disinterested passersby spared them not even a glance, pink tentacles and green streamers clasped in a gesture of friendship that terplanetary space.   . thought provoking stories it has been IP's pleasure to present: Carry Me Home, by Gordon R. Dickson, is an unusual study in the revelation of a character; Progeny, by Philip K. Dick, is an emotion filled story about a father and son in the distant future; For Every Man a Reason, by Patrick Wilkins, tests the love of a man for his wife, versus his love for his State; plus other short stories, each with a different theme, by Mari Wolf, William E. Bently, John Christopher, Basil Wells and Vernon L. McCain. Also, meet the winners in IP's # nation-wide College Science Piction Contest. Ask your newsdealer to reserve you a copy. fVe bid you welcome. Earthmen! Take your rif'htful place beside us, share our peaceful existence. By your endless struggles you have earned it. Prace Communique No I . -- Abilene -- April I, # The war is over. Iverson is safely exiled on asteroid #, and the otlicr leaders of the agp-essor forces -- Cartwright. Briande, Remberg, Klang and Risofsky -- arc all in confinement on their resjjcctive space islands. Peace has Ixren restored to the system: on Rios and on Nwad. Sup. AC Riot Adm, AC Pamphlet On March #. # (Rios Time), the Rios-Nwadian war ended. This report on the recent conflict has been prepared by the Bureau of Public Information and Education. Rios Branch, for the purixise of enlightening the inhabitants of Rios about the War, its causes, and the proposed policy of the Nwndian government concerning the administration of your planet. In order to provide for full underst.inding by the people of Rios. Riosic terminology shall be used wherever possible in this report. Thus. Rios shall be called 'Earth', Nwad shall be designated 'Venus', and all dates, measurements and other data which arc difTerent on the two planets shall be indicated according to the Riosic calculation. The War ended on March #, # when the last Earthian troops surrendered to the Venusian peace forces. When did the War begin? The first battle was fought on December #. #. but the first 'incident' that led directly to the conflict occurred in November, #-#. And es'en before that date, many years before, officials on Venus knew that war between the two worlds was inevitable. Space scientists of Venus have bfen observing Earth for hundreds of years. The first spare ship to reach )our planet and return to Venus made its voyage in the Earth year, #. From that time on, explorations were made sporadically until the #'s, when revolutionary improvements in the design of our ships made possible more economical and faster trips. It is an interesting coincidence, incidentally, that atomic power was discovered on Earth just as we on Venus had made atomic driven spacecraft obsolete by the introduction of the magnetico-gravitational drive. This fact is mentioned because it was the evidence of atomic explosions on Earth that increased our interest in your planet a century ago. In all our ob.servations of Earth, the most obvious fact we learned was that its dominant race was aggressive and war-like in nature. Having no desire to introduce this war-inindedness to our peaceful world, we avoided all contact with Earth. We realized, however, that in time the Earth race would accomplish space travel and thus force a contact with us. Therefore, we devised highly potent weapons for our defense in the event that the people of Earth ever stopped quarreling among themselves and attempted an attack on our world. High officials in our government were appalled at the thought of war' with its chaotic and indiswho deemed it an actual act of aggression on our part to arm ourselves in preparation for a war. The opposition to our defense program was strong. Yet, it was our preparedness which saved our civilization from destruction when your forces launched their invasion of our planet last year. To understand the events which led to The War, it is best that we briefly review the history of space travel by Earthians. In the year #, the six remaining nations of the Earth formed the Federation to abolish war and to enable the people of your planet to put forth a united effort to discover the secret of interplanetary travel. This endeavour, in itself, was considered by our leaders to be most creditable. But the entire pattern of your development, observed for many centuries, instilled seeds of doubt in our minds. You were conditioned to war and the mere establishment of a Federation to monitor the future was not adequate insurance, we felt, against further conflict. In your concentration on conquering space, however, you did stop warring among yourselves. Space travel from Earth began thirty-eight years ago. The first successful trip to Luna and back was made in #, and by # the Lunar space port was opened. It was in #, also, that the space ship. Pioneer, left for Mars. It was never heard from again. Unsuccessful attempts to travel to the other planets were made during the years #-#. The Pioneer II, bound for Mars, the Adventurer, bound for Mars, and the Enterprise, bound for Venus, all disappeared without a trace. In September, #, the Space King returned to Earth after completing a voyage to Mars. The ship landed safely, but the excited celebration that greeted it was shortlived when it was discovered that the entire crew was afflicted with a neurological disease that your Earth scientists labeled 'space sickness'. This disease posed a new obstacle to interplanetary travel. It attacked indiscriminately and it proved fatal in almost every case. Research and experimentation on the cause and cure of 'space sickness' was carried on continuously from the time the Space King returned with its dying crew until the disease was conquered in #. During these years, the experimental ships Enterprise II, Razorback, and Space King II were utilized as laboratories in orbital flights. In April, #, the space liner Morning Star was completed, incorporating technological improvements designed to prevent the occurrence of 'space sickness'. The Morning Star left the Lunar station on July #, #. Its destination was Venus. In government circles on Venus, it was felt that no further delay could be permitted in establishing contact with the people of Earth. They were already too close to space flight maturity to forego any opportunity for formulating an understanding. Therefore, The Morning Star, whose flight had been observed contsantly, was allowed to pass through our ionic barrier and land unharmed on our planet. Emissaries of our Lora Dannun ( nearest translation : Supreme Council) were on hand to greet the Earthmen when they left their ship. As a precautionary measure, two atomic scorchers were trained on the ship, but our officials approached the debarking Earthmen without side arms and in a friendly manner. The Earthmen, understandably apprehensive, came forward with their hand weapons drawn. Although we on Venus were already familiar with your International English language, our welcoming committee did not think it wise to further startle the men from Earth by greeting them in their own tongue. Therefore, our friendly intentions were made known by elaborate and unmistakable gestures. The aliens from Earth, nevertheless, were startled enough by our appearance. They stared wide-eyed at what appeared to be four childlike specimens of human beings. This resemblance which Venusians bear to humans, and which should have impressed the crew of the Morning Star with the possibilities of intelligent negotiations, did not deter them from jumping to irrational conclusions. Our chief emissary, Ser Madi, heard their leader and his lieutenant in the following conversation (which is reproduced from the auto-tape recording made on the spot) : Leader: What do you make of them, Jensen? They look almost like human children, don't they? Lieutenant: There doesn't seem to be anything to worry about here, sir. They seem friendly enough. But why children? You'd think they'd send some bigwigs out to welcome us. Why did they send children? Leader: I don't know... Maybe it's a trap! Lieutenant: You're right, sir. We can't afford to take any chances. Leader; Take them back to the ship for the psych boys to work on. I don't like the looks of this. At this point Ser Madi revealed his knowledge of the Earth language. "I assure you, gentlemen," he said to the strangers, "that this is not a trap. Please follow us peacefully." The invaders were stunned into silence, but it took the leader only a moment to recover. "I'll be damned!" he exclaimed. "The sly little devils understand English! Jensen! Have these creatures escorted onto the Star. This is something we'll have to talk over on the ship." At a signal from the man called Jensen, eight of your people advanced toward the four members of our welcoming committee. Ser Madi spoke again; "I warn you, sir, not to try to abduct us. Order your men back." The leader of the Earthmen laughed. "Look at them!" he said to his lieutenant. "These things are threatening us!" The soldiers had paused at Ser Madi's words. "Go on," the leader ordered them. "Take them aboard the ship!" "You were warned," Ser Madi said sadly. He motioned to his companions and, in an instant of reduced to smoldering ashes. The stunned Earthians were easily taken into custody. They were completely awed by the destruction of their ship, which had been accomplished with "invisible" weapons. Ser Madi did not think it necessary to explain the compactness and efficiency of the atomic scorchers to them. They would not have been able to comprehend the principles behind the finger ring weapons. Captain Daniels, the leader of the Earth expedition, was interrogated at great length, but he remined hostile and uncooperative. The only information that he offered was his name, rank and serial number, which he repeated over and over again. Jensen and the remaining crew members refused to answer our questions also, insisting that their captain was the spokesman for all of them. This action increased our fears that the intellectual and emotional make-up of Earth was incompatible with that of Venus. We accomplished nothing in four days of questioning. It seemed impossible to determine the means whereby we could arrive at some workable line of reasoning. It was equally impossible for us to ascertain whether the hostile actions of the Morning Star represented the attitude of the Earth government or if they were merely the impulsive results of the emotional strain endured by Captain Daniels and his crew on their voyage. The Supreme Council decided it was necessary to visit Earth now, make our presence known, and see if friendly relations could be established with that planet. We had hopes that this might be done, for there had been no war on Earth for almost fifty years. It was hoped that the people had finally achieved a civilization capable of friendly interplanetary exchange. The Council ordered a delegation to leave immediately on the first diplomatic mission from Venus to Eai. Ser Madi had justifiable doubts about the possibility of success, but the Council overruled his objections. The delegation, led by the elder statesman, r Alaga, left for Earth aboard the light cruiser, Tunn. The date was December #, #. Returning to Earth aboard the Tunn, were the eleven survivors of the Morning Star, treated not as prisoners, but as survivors of a space wreck. The Tunn landed on Earth two miles out of Abilene, on December #, #. A few hours after touching down, the Venusian delegation arrived in the Earth capital and presented themselves at the Ministry of State. The office worker who stood between them and the Secretary of the Minister of Foreign Affairs was amused by the delegates' story. "Why don't you kids go home and stop annoying us?" he said. "And stop watching those TD shows!" Ser Buldi indignantly repeated his request to see the Foreign Minister. "Get out of here!" the office worker said in a tone that indicated he was through talking to us. Ser Buldi began to reply but he was silenced by Ser Alaga, who wished to avoid any unnecessary incidents which could have proved embarrassing to the Earthmen. Instead, the elder statesman approached a young lady seated behind a desk. "What can I do for you, little boy?" the girl asked with a smile. Ser Alaga, with the aid of his hypno-tube, quickly convinced her to admit the delegates to the office of the Sub-Secretary for Foreign Affairs. Then began a three day procession through the offices of many sub-secretaries, four under-secretaries and two deputy ministers. In each office our diplomats were received skeptically and passed on to the next. Finally, in desperation, the delegation released the survivors of the Morning Star. Although Ser Alaga realized that their account of the incident probably would be distorted, he knew that it would serve to verify the delegation's identity. The Abilene News of December #, #, shouted at the top of its headline voice; The Bugle: The Times: #I Survivors Of Space Liner Tell Story Of Attack An immediate meeting was held between our delegation and the leaders of your government. After the formalities of greeting were over, the spokesman for the Earth government reviewed the facts of the Morning Star incident as they had been related by Captain Daniels and his crew. Venusian forces, they claimed, had been guilty of an unprovoked attack against the ship. We had barbarously murdered all of the ship's complement, save for the eleven "hostages" whom we had brought to Earth aboard the Tunn. You Can Master t the Power of Your "Sixth Sense" la KJia-ttHklutdr mu -- m M # Fifth Ave., New York #, N. Y. I nMe rwA M# ctpr ml Bmm tMvtJaiiri  Am. I CaH -- tM Kn  uwn. to ptotii wreppM WAm dhvML I wUI Aepoui MUi pmtAmmm mmXf II f. plwe I MN be II Mth mmI NeeMt. w I tS rew IW AmA iJi #m la  iefi  I Mae ta haep aeaa H I fatMi boA The government of Earth demanded an explanation. Ser Alaga spoke the truth. The Earthians were not satisfied. (the followino conversation is Earth Spokesman: We will grant that your act of aggression was not premeditated, but resulted from a misinterpretation, on your part, of the friendly intentions of our forces. Nevertheless, our vessel was destroyed. Twentythree of our men were killed. The government of the World Federation demands that your government make suitable reparations. Ser Alaga: Mr. Cartwright, we respectfully deny the allegation that our forces were guilty of any act of aggression. Cartwright: The Morning Star was destroyed by your men, was it not? Ser Alaga: In self-defense, yes. As we have explained, the captain of your ship threatened our welcoming committee with... Cartwright: None of your men were harmed! Ser Alaga: They prevented their own imminent destruction by their action in self-defense. It was this action which resulted in the unfortunate... Cartwright; Our ship and our men were attacked before they had fired a shot. Therefore, your action cannot be deemed to have taken place in self-defense. Ser Alaga: Your reasoning confounds me, sir. If the prevention of aggressive action is termed aggression, then we are guilty of it. I bow to your logic. Naturally our government wishes to express its regrets over the impulsive act of its representatives. We want to meet with you in peace and friendship. We want to prevent any future incidents such as the one which has brought us here today. Cartwright; On behalf of the World Federation, I accept your apology. We, too, would like to prevent further strife between our worlds. There is much to be gained by a useful and cooperative alliance between Earth and Venus. But, to insure this, we feel that your government should make certain... payments in reparation for our losses. Ser Alaga: Although I am in sympathy with your views, our delegation has not been empowered to oer any reparations. However, if you will indicate what your government would consider a suitable payment for your losses, we shall convey your request to our Council. (end of auto-tape recording) Yttrium was the reparation asked by Earth -- five thousand pounds of isolated and purified Yttrium. This metal was essential for the construction of Earth's space ships, the "alumiryten" alloy being used in the manufacture of the tough Outer shell of tliese ships. The supply of Yttrium ores on Venus is almost unlimited, and the Council had no trouble delivering the requested amount of the refined metal. The last shipment of ingots reached Earth within three months. This conciliatory payment was intended to preserve the peace and build good will within the system. It was our intention that, if possible, the Earth would assume a more respKjnsible attitude toward the greater scope of friendly interplanetary relations. It was our hope that harmony would form a permanent bond between our two worlds. Our efforts were wasted. screamed the tabloid headlines. President Iverson of the World Federation sent a stiff note to the Council on Venus. He demanded apologies and immediate restitutions, claiming that sixty percent of the metal delivered was actually zirconium. We had cheated them, said Iverson. In a terse reply to his note, our government branded the Iverson accusation a lie. It was all too apparent what was intended. We refused to discuss the matter. We broke off all diplomatic relations with Earth and simply ignored the numerous threats and accusations that were continuously being made. Our vigilance increased, however, and we prepared for the attack that Iverson promised when he said: "Venus has not yet felt the force of Earth... They will!" Several years pas.sed, during which time the Federation built a huge space armada, using to good advantage the five thousand pounds of pure yttrium they had received from Venus. It was also during these years of preparation that Venus and its people were forced to accept the hardships of a regimented economy. Our citizens, however, long accustomed to persorial sacrifice for the welfare of Society, did not complain. On September #, #, a fleet of four hundred Federation warships took off for Venus. The battle in defense of our planet was carried out exactly according to the strategy of the Supreme Council. The first wave of one hundred attacking ships was completely demolished in our ionic barrier. Fifty percent of the second wave was accounted for in the same manner. Those ships which did manage to pierce the discharging barrier were badly damaged and were easily destroyed by our cruising disintegrator teams. The third wave of invaders was met by our ascending task force of sixty scout ships, each equipped with twin cosmic blasters. In this engagement, three of our ships were lost... all the invaders were destroyed. While this battle was being fought, our space patrol descended upon the fourth wave from outer space. The Earth fleet was completely obliterated. On March #, #, our invasion fleet attacked the Earth. After two weeks of sporadic fighting, the occupation was completed. Iverson, Cartwright, Briande, and the rest of the leaders of Earth's war-like government are in exile on their various asteroids. We shall not kill them, nor shall we allow them to die. They are supplied with their needs by a p that calls once a month. Otherwise, they are left completely alone on their space islands, each a master of his own little world. We believe this to be a fitting punishment for men who try to conquer a world. Peace has been restored to the system: on Venus, and on Earth. Peace Communique No. # -- Abilene -- May #, # One month ago, the provisional Venusian government on Earth was established to administer the military occupation of your planet. During the past month, that government, assisted by the Venusian Administration Corps, has instituted reforms whereby peace and security have been attained for all the Earth. What of the future? Citizens of Earth, here is your future: You are welcomed as equals in a union with Venus. For a time, until you have learned how to govern yourselves peacefully, your planet will be directed by Venusian administrators. But even now -- immediately -- you shall be accorded the same rights and privileges that the citizens of Venus enjoy. And you shall have peace! Perhaps you should be thankful for the last terrible war which your leaders brought upon you, for as a result of it, you shall no longer know the meaning of war. Of course, citizens have duties as well as rights. Failure to comply with regulations is severely punished. Therefore, it is adsisable that you acquaint yourselves with the obligations of a peaceful citizen. Tlie duties of a citizen vary, depending upon the individual's classification and the location in which he lives. In addition to his special duties, however, every citizen is required to know and observe the citizen, listed below. #. Every citizen will work at his appointed task one-third of each day. #. Every citizen will perform those duties necessary to maintain his sleeping area in such a manner as to comply with the directives posted in his barracks. #. Every citizen (male) will father (female) will bear a child once every alternate cycle. #. Every citizen will report promptly when notified of special duty (e.g. waste disposal detail, sewer maintenance crew, restorative squad). #. Every citizen will report to his e.xtermination center immediately upon notification. (See Note) (Note: Certain measures are necessary to prevent the over-population of a peaceful world. In addition to the obvious elimination of the incurably sick, the insane, the feebleminded, the disabled, the dishonest, and the aged, periodic exterminations must be held among the general citizenry. Citizens who have been selected will report promptly to the appointed center for speedy, painless extermination. Failure to do so will result in a delayed and painful process.) Now we bid you welcome. Earthmen. Take your rightful place beside us and share our peaceful existence. By your endless struggles through a long heritage of war, you have earned it. Sup. AC Riot Adm    "Friend against friend, and the old hunting guns polished up for more deadly and constant shooting -- is that a story that belongs in galactic history? Is it for this that great galactic corporations work -- to turn peaceable planets into charnel houses for a stinking profit? "That's the charge that you, and the rest of your workers, will have to answer to -- not in courts, but to the people of the Galaxy. "And, most important -- to yourselves!" "With that, he strode out. presence of Roald Gibbons, and he was angry again. "And don't look so smug. I know what you did. I worked with your father long enough to know about his special agents -- but don't think the ofieration was all your doing. "What do you think happened here when you sent that spacegram tipping us off that it was Galactic Aid behind the mess, and that we were to declare it a Class AA. It was a madhouse! "It accomplished the desired result," Roald said. "When the Governor and the Secretary read that Class AA bulletin -- and it took careful planning and timing to get into their ofliice just when it was delivered -- with me there to pound it home, they sort of faded about the gills. "They came running to me in a few minutes. Now they are Honor Witnesses at Galactic Court, with more than enough testimony to sew up Galactic Aid." Roald had a hard time keeping his mind on the present conversation. He was due to blast to Lyrane in a few hours. Hh company was proceeding with rehabilitation ahead of schedule, with the natural zealousness of the Lyranians for their old system helping them along. Roald had not forgotten the piquant beauty of Erol Garbin's daughter. He had a hard time keeping his mind on the conversation. "If anyone else had read that Class AA bulletin," Kim said, "we would have been sewed up. You know perfectly well we don't have the powers you had us state in that bulletin. It was a galactic offense to even print such a thing. What if the Governor had known that?" "I counted on him not knowing it. Even though he was an executive of Galactic Aid, Class AA emergencies are so rare that very few people are familiar with their actual provisions. "Certainly, it was a risky bluff. But when you're dealing with that sort of power, you have to bluff fast and hard. We didn't have enough evidence to actually stop Galactic. We needed inside testimony. When you rescinded the Class AA order, two hours later, the confession was already signed." Exasperation was now Kini's mood. "One of these times your bluff won't work, and all your secret agents won't do you a bit of good. Empire law is nothing to tamper with." Roald smiled. "I think that Galactic Aid found that out."    Whatever you wane io # --  new home, a happier marriage, a healthy state of mind and body, a better job, more money -- here is a remarkable method for turning your (The Science of Selling Your Goal -- and ihen Reaching It) by ClauJt M. Briilol, u'riter, lawyer, lecturer This unusual book shows you how to put your inner mind mind to help you overcome obstacles and succeed in whatever you want to aaomplish. is the secret of what women call intuition -- religious leaden call hunch -- top executives call personal magnetism. "Th shows you;  How you can win success by working lets hard than you do now.  How belief makes things happen.  How to get what you want easily through a paocess of making mental pictures.  How to use "the law of suggestion" to step up your effectiveness in evety thing you do.  How to let your iouginaiion find the ways and means of pushing obstacles aside for you.  How "the mirror technique" will release your subconscious.  How to project your thoughts and turn them into achievements. You ran put this powerful force to work for you at once. In Inn # Jnyt yon will Itgln to tee mow tkit TtoterknhU methoJ tom tknnee yonr entire life! It will reveal to you what iteps to taket what dedsioos to make: who to see; what to say; whdi and how. "The Matic of Bcltevin," caa i.a. I . See for yourself -- without risk or obligation -- how "The Magic I m a oo I nave Dceis qJ Believing'! reveals the proetirol way to get more of everything wanting and tnring to get coupon below. lnfUwd CllfH, Nw Jtrtty l t )ob I have been wanlins and tnint to M oer a year.' -- 'O. M. Esat, ' Emglrwood, Ca 'Afi eiceedingly practical analyats of the tccnniqoe of mental power... a guide book to fucetta. -- Alrr. X. FftUnd, Ort, Tbf book la magic I Star tltng and inatantancous retttlta aeem to follow every chapter. Truly one of the beat inveatmentt I have ever made.' -- Affi. i, P. Otten, Dtihik, At ibe end of # clay I will either return lha book and owa poaiaix aal narklue. aad than # a nootk oMll tba low-prlea I of only to # li paid. tAg. ga.g ts.ts Wltsi Tl lao ckareai. Baaa ralara tareai. Baaa ralara prUllao-yaar laaaay  lOUU Ol '# # WoortM nf l-lAnli Afid XIaAi  f idAniltlA UlTVnUrMMt... of rWtV rrtAB ipArv of Kir TrAvcitag... Workto #f Tttowirruw. M# pAC. nrwt AlWmli... wrttlm lirfMT It a lnvrntrll atc Ji(t a frw nt the # g l(tp tAl rluiMni fnm a tltirra yesni f Ad(uiMllnr H#'trtirr-Klrtk#t SflACatnr ti cdittiT W. ('A # iptMli. Jr. Jmmt... You r wnrklftg tin a aerm 'injert When yiMir (M bmimcA ma I pri tn  nf ynitr MAptuyer. Ihry kldnip , hrr. WiMi ynu try to fly avaj. nur iflAfie BvallnwAd up to by a Awim # ... Tlc tvbled gialitfi rmlNdt itlw MQle liAii eu twm r m l aJamwC tA rvitirr AlAty! imly uor clvIUrAlInn had 'mped. Hmr fmmtd tkeg stmp tkU mutdk I Mait... Tbey b C AK t d lb S'IcAata to. , brlp dadniy tW ' ftmAb " -- a rtTAac ' nrw raev wttb myatcncMAt pnwent. Hirt )UAR Hli found tliAt he Aod bki gUI wort, .' (nuiAnu Uieoiaelvwi T tiAOiKC -- SoT UtaM fuU-nise. fuU Imcft) Mw oonKv-Kirtioa Boolu -- your for ooly #. A # to # vAhie! We me thiA Amarinfl offer lo introduce ou to the Pew SetOB c e-Fktioo Hook dub. Thii (Yub brincA # roa the ermm of the new arteoetfielkifi niAAteriieees (or only # (giliu few eenta ahipnlnfl rlwnoil -- even tloush they eoit #. # And up in the urigiaAf publaiherB No Dvflt PC CpniDNcptfld ffplAt Karh month our Editor aeleet the No. I title from aU the new Acieore betiem liooliA. But you toke ooly the yeor. You rereive dmrritkm of ench rlretioB In ndvanee. end you may reject nay book you pleoAe. No due, no fee. Take ad'Antapr of Ihk Amnrinfl offer now! JiiAt fiek any # hook you want -- of enfp t mr oO fkrrrf You need cnd no aoo -- limply mail poatoard below. Tliw offer may have to be withdrawn at any time. o mail poeteard right now to feiaaca-Wcflaa look dob. Oepl. If.ld. Gordon Ofy. N. V. Dept. IF#. GardM Oty. NawYavk #I for Ail three (nlu few eenu Mitippiiig eliAfvei), aimI enroll me a a mamher nf the Hetane Hrtloh IbMik I 'lull l.very nwinlh nefMl me the  lub' free Imlletin.  Thing lo Come.' o that I may deride whether nr not I wHli to rerdve the coming monthly #) daecilbed therein. Knr CNrh iMMik I Arrefit, I will pay only #I pluH a few cent ihipinnit charge. I do not have to take  (MMik every month hmly four ilurtng each year I am a member) -- and I may ratgt) at any time after arrepllng four Mclertlno. aod #M memberhlp wUI lie mneeUedf Q Aifeundiwf Anthelefy  fflnp Around Ike #u rotrcAftD 'iriiimhiio AT ONa AddTM Was the"Flymg Saucer of iowa'RegLIy a Fake?... The Chief of the IT. S. #uter turm who attarhed themselves to Serret #eriee wondered. men and turned them into Drs Moines told Its listenem that You'll thrill to every pace of  landed nearby was a fake by Ri#ierl A. Ileinlein -- just Umb why did several of the in this errat offer! He Powers Stosi Neeswory if Moflsd ii Kia Unttad Slefat I  What the Youth of Today Thinks About the Hermes, closest asteroid to the Earth, seen # miles in the distance. travels through its orbit at seven to nine miles o second. Thousands of asteroids, from hundreds of feet in diameter to hundreds of miles in diameter, whirl through our solar system, with new ones being discovered every year. you're that man, here's something that will interest you. Not a magic formula -- not a getrichquick scheme -- but something more substantial, more practical. Of course, you need something more than just the desire to be an accountant. You've got to pay Still, wouldn't it be worth your while to sacrifice some of your leisure in favor of interesting home study -- over a comparatively brief period. Always provided that the rewards were good -- a salary of # to #.' An accountant's duties are interesting, varied and of real worth to his employers. He has standing,! Do you feel that such things aren't for you? Well, don't be coo sure. Very possibly they can be! Why not, like so many before you, investigate LaSalle's modern Problem Method of training for an accountancy, position. Just suppose you were permitted to work in a large accounting house under the personal supervision of an expert accountant. Suppose, with his aid, you studied accounting principles and solved problems day by day -- easy ones at first -- then more difficult ones. If you could do this -- and could turn to him for advice as the problems became complex -- soon you'd master them all. That's the training you follow in principle under the LaSalle Problem Method. You cover accountancy from the basic Principles fight up through Accountancy Systems and Income Tax Procedure. Then you add C. P. A, Training and prepare for the C. P, A. examinations. As you go along, you absorb the principles of Auditing, Cost Accounting, Business Law, Statistical Control, Organization, Management and Finance. Your progress is as speedy as you care to make it -- depending on your own eagerness to leara and the time you spend in study. Will recognition come.' The only answer, as you know, is that success dm come to the man who is really trained. It's possible your employers will notice your improvement in a very few weeks or months. Indeed, many LaSalle graduates have paid for their training -- with increased earnings -- before they have completed it! For accountants, who axe trained in organization and management are the executives of the future. Send For Free Sample Lesson For your own good, get all the facts. Write for out free #-pagc book, "Accountancy, The Profession That Pays" -- also the free sample lesson so you can prove to yourself that you can master accountancy quickly, tboroly in spare time at hoxe. Over # Certified Public Accountonti omong LoSalle alumni A Correspondence fnstftutfon Send me without obligation Free Sample Lesson and "Accountancy, The Profession 'That Pays." Nave. dip AddetSf, , .  ...  . a... aaa.a......a...... Cty # # #   Sat. a   .w    I ll All Stories New and Complete Cover by Bob Watkins: Youth of Today Looks at America of Tomorrow Approaching for Landing on Asteroid Hermes IF is published monthly by Quinn Publishing Company, Inc. Volume #, No. #. Copyright # by Quinn Publishing Co., Inc. Office of publication, # Lord Street, Buffalo, New York. Entered as Second Class Matter at Post Office, Buffalo, New York. Subscription # for # issues in U.S. and Possessions; Canada # for # issues; elsewhere #. Allow four weeks for change of address. All stories appearing in this magazine are fiction; any similarity to actual persons is coinciaental. Not responsible for unsolicited artwork or manuscripts. #c a copy. Printed in U.S.A. Next issue on sale October #th Are you too old to learn? not at alt, new tests show! New tests, cited by an expert in news stories, show that: your ability to think increases with age; your powers of deduction are greater; your judgment is belter, files are thousands of case histories of men and women of every age. Their successes, their promotions, their raises prove that men and women past school age can learn! Listen to A.L.G. "Up until I took the course, I did what I was told. But now... I tell others what to do. have the feeling you're "stuck" in your job? Real Job Security -- Cet an I.C.S. Diplomal, Your trained I. C. S. counselor will appraiso your abilities, help you plan for the future. Listen to D.F.K. "Before enroUing, I was # foundry laborer. Today I am a draftsman, enjoying a Vs increase in salary." with I. C. S. at home, in your spare time. There's no interference with business or social activity. Famous I. C. S. texts make learning easy. And whatever your age, you're more capable now than you've ever been. But don't delay! Pick your field from the coupon below. Mail the coupon today! We'II send free "success" book, survey of opportunltl in your field! Mail now or # free books, Nams i tC,S. Scranton #, Penna, G Air Conditioning-Refrig.  ArcMtecturo y Suiiding Contractor # Sviidirg Maintananet # Carpenter and Mill Work O Estimating g Heating Painting Contractor  Plumbing  Reading Arch. Blueprints  Steamtitting  Cartooning O Commercial Art  Fashion Illustrating  Magagine Illustrating  Aircraft I Engine Mechanic  Civil Engineering O Industrial Supervision D  Advertising  Highway Engineering  Rersonnei-Labor Reiations  O Business Corteaponderce # Structural EngmMring O CsElclric Welding O  Certified Public Accounting O Surveying and Mapping Q Heat Trealmerrt  Metallurgy  O Business Corteaponderce # Structural EngmMring O CsElclric Welding  Certified Public Accounting Q Surveying and Mapping  Heat Treatment  Met...  federal Tax O Aircraft Drafting O Industrial Instrumentation  letter-writing Improvement  Architectural Drafting O Industrial Supervision C Managing Small Business  Electrical Drafting G Machine Design-Drifting  Office Management  MKhanlcal Drafting  Machine Shop Inspection  Retail Business Management  Mine Surveying and Mapping  Machine Shop Practice  Sales Management  Stenographic-Secretarial O Traffic Management O Analytical Chemistry O Show Card and Sign Lettaring  chemical Enemeerina O Auto Body Rebuilding  Auto Elec. Technician G Auto-Engine Tune Up O Automobile Mechanic  Ship Drafting O Structural Drafting O Ciecfrical Engineering  Electrical Maintenance  Electrician Q Contracting  lineman Q Natural Gas Prod C Trans. O Commercial  Petroleum Ertgineering  Plastics  Pulp and Paper Making  Good English  High School Subjects  Mathematics G Mechanical Engineering   Quality Control O O Reading Shop Blueprints  Q Refrigeration Q O Sheet Metal Worker  Q Tool Design Q Toelmeking O Electronics # O Radio and TV Servicing O O Radio Operating O O Television -- Technician O Air Brakes  Car Inspector Diesel Locomotive Locometivo Engineot Section Foftmart Combustion Engineering Oiesel-Eiec. Diesel Eng's Electric Light and Power Stationary Fireman Stationary Steam Enginearing Carding and Spinning Cotton, Rayon. Woolen Mfg. Finishing and Dyeing Loom Fixing Textile Designing Textile EngYg  Throwing Warping and Weaving Domestic Refrigaratiort Marine Engineering Ocean Navigation Shipfitting Short Story Writing Telephony Warking Hour, A M to PM . Canadian residents tend coupon to International Correspondence Schools, Canadiart. Ltd... Montreal. Canada... Special tuition rates to mamben el the U. S. Armed Force. ludicrously funny cartoons on ash trays or cocktail napkins or home bar glasses entitled "People are no damned good" or "Nobody loves me" or "Farewell cruel world" or some of the others? No doubt you have; they have become quite a fad. And whole you do get a heck of a big laugh out of them, it's still sort of tragic that they hit home so accurately. They pin-point the foibles of so many of us, and that's what makes them funny in the last analysis. Quite probably you have, at some time or other, gotten into conversation with someone who has said, "Oh I guess the place is all right, but the people are so damned unfriendly." Or, something like this: "Have you noticed how cliquish this town is?" Or, "If my job weren't here I'd leave like a shot." Etcetera, etcetera. New York City is a classic example. Scores of people who left home to make their money there call it a cold, uhr friendly place. And New York isn't unique in this respect; you can; hear similar comments about other A good many of these "gripers" probably left the old home town because they felt that way there... and they carry the seed of discontent with them wherever they go. A sort of invisible chip on the shoulder. Perhaps if they gave whatever town they're talking about half a chance to be friendly they'd be singing a different tune. Then, again -- maybe they wouldn't. Maybe, psychologically, they'd be unhappy anywhere unless they could complain. But to give them their due, you can find a bad egg now and then in any basket. So if nothing but a basket of perfect eggs will do, maybe living alone on a four by four island in the Pacific is the answer. And there is no guarantee .that even that will be Utopia. If you want to like a town, it will like you. And that goes for the biggest place in the world as well as the smallest. I have good reason to think that so-called "cold" and "unfriendly" New York is the greatest city in the world -- and not only because of its size. I never "froze" during the # years I spent there, and I met a lot of people who were certainly far from unfriendly. And I left it with more than I had when I went there. As far as this particular spot called Kingston is concerned, I don't know of a better place on the map. I've been here ten years and I wouldn't mind another hundred. like this one on the banks of the Hudson. You get to know most of the folks and they get to know you. It's kinda good to have someone yell across the street "Hi, Jim!" Or to stop and gab in the middle of the street until a car honks you on your way. Then, too, maybe it's because in less than # minutes after you leave the office you can be fishing or swimming or playing golf or paddling a canoe on the river or just walking through the woods or sightseeing from the top of a mountain. Yup, it's very nice around here. Of course, while I like vanilla, another man likes chocolate. Which is fine. But those who don't like vanilla or chocolate or strawberry or lemon or lime or tutti-fruitti or anything else... well, that's their privilege. They are what the dictionary calls "misanthropes". And the way this old world of ours is getting smaller every day there isn't much room for that kind of philosophy. People have a lot of living together to do, and a lot of liking to do. Perhaps it will require a good deal of effort on each individual's part to develope a "give" attitude; but our society today seems to demand that effort from all of us. Tolerance is not enough, we need a definite policy that is concerned with putting our best foot forward in taking a step toward our neighbor. You could live in a town or city forever and a day without griping; but without liking it either, if you are merely tolerant of the "coldness and unfriendliness". You've got to pitch in with your neighbors, develope a "give" attitude, become an integral part of community affairs... and the cliques and the coldness melt away. Moral and intellectual and political distrust between nations is too rampant today to let it penetrate to next door neighbors. When a choice is made, whether it be in local politics, or in international diplomatic relations, it always seems to be a choice of "the lesser of two evils". Perhaps I'm naive, but why can't it be the "better of two goods"? Or isn't that cricket in politics and diplomacy? "Give" isn't an easy thing to acquire. It so often involves pride and ethics and prejudice and an almost complete about face of personality and thinking. Such a reversal of opinions may seem like too big a job. But there are hundreds of people who have managed just that task, who have stepped out of the ranks of the misanthropes, and found that here is no such thing as an unfriendly town, and that life can be a very pleasant thing whether they are living in Oshkosh or in Dallas. It's a big job for the individual and may not seem to have much affect on the rest of mankind or on world politics. But it is a beginning. And perhaps if we start in a small way, those cartoons that seem to point out that we're all going to hell in a handbasket won't hit the mark so closely any more. Maybe all this is Sunday school stuff. Maybe it's too Pollyanna-ish. Maybe so. Maybe you don't think it's science fiction. I do. And heck, a little slice of optimism does a fellow good now and then. -- jlq What the Youth of Today Thinks About the America of Tomorrow Reflected in Stories by Undergraduates junior, Andy Offut, of Louisville, Kentucky, captured the first prize of # with his manuscript entitled "And Gone Tomorrow" in the nation-wide College Science Fiction Contest sponsored by IF Magazine which closed midnight May #th. His story was judged best among those submitted by amateur writers in colleges all over America in answer to the theme question : "What Will Life in America Be Like # Years From Now?" Second prize of # went to Jack Nelson, of Norwalk, California, a Brigham Young University senior, for his story "Men of Boru". Five runner-up prizes of # each went to the following: Leo Kelley, of Kingston, Pennsylvania, a Wilkes College sophomore, third prize for "Dreamtown, U.S.A."; Lee Holum, of Spokane, Washington, a senior at Whitworth College, fourth prize for "The Third Party"! John R. Arnold, of Rochester, New York, a senior at Cornell University, fifth prize for "One Remained to Question the Gardener" ; Edward D, McHugh, of Holyoke, versity of Louisville, Louisville, Kentucky Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah more, Wilkes College, Wilkes Barre, Pennsylvania worth College, Spokane, Washington Cornell University, Ithaca, New York Senior, Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire more, City College of New York, New York City Massachusetts, a senior at Dartmouth College, sixth prize for "Image of God"; Stanley Gleit, of New York City, a sophomore at City College of New York, seventh prize for "It's Really Sirius". Last fall IF Magazine announced its first College Science Fiction Contest to # colleges and universities throughout the United States and Canada. Students, who had never written professionally, were invited to submit stories, based on their own ideas and interpretations of events today, predicting what life in America will be like # years from now. Prizes of # in cash were offered for the best stories. The idea caught on like wildfire. Here was a chance to draw attention to their own thoughts, tenets, philosophies and moral and political convictions which had been the subjects of classroom discussions and "bull sessions" in fraternity houses and dormitories. Inquiries, ideas and suggestions poured into our offices from all corners of the country. When we finished them we had a pretty clear picture of what the youth of today thinks will be the American Way of Life # years from now. Unfortunately, only a few manuscripts were received from the fair sex and these were eliminated well before the final judging. And we did want to include a pretty coed in our gallery of winners. But -- ! When Jules Verne wrote his imaginative tales about submarines and airplanes, he was accused of writing "fairy tales". These stories by the young people of today are predicted on the same sort of datacum-imagination that prompted Verne to predict a future filled with mechanical and technical marvels. Perhaps, in these winning manuscripts, there is much indicated and predicted that will become actuality in # years. Predictions that covered almost every aspect of our society from religion and philosophy to biology and technology made the choice of winners an intensely interesting and very difficult problem. But the choice was finally made; and here are the winners, with what they predict, fiction-wise, for America and the world to come: "And Gone Tomorrow" Andy Offut was born in Louisville, Kentucky twenty years ago. After what he terms a very conventional childhood, he made his bid for unconventionality by skipping his senior year at high school and entering the University of Louisville on a Ford Scholarship in #. Now a senior studying for an AB, he's majoring in English and psychology, and has had a smattering of everything else from math and philosophy to French and political science. He has also found time to be Secretary of the Student Council, house manager and assistant pledge master of his fraternity, editor-in-chief of one school paper and columnist and assistant editor of the college weekly. He was recently initiated into Pi Delta Epsilon, national journalism fraternity. He also spends twenty hours a week as "chief flunky" with an advertising agency and another ten hours a week as a clothing salesman. As if all this wasn't enough to fill up his time, Andy's hobbies sound like a full time job in themselves. He draws and writes an "uncomical comic strip", writes a biting and satirical advice-to-thelovelorn column, plays poker and bridge, and reads science fiction and Roman history. The future includes a job in Uncle Sam's army, then a career in advertising or public relations. And Gone Tomorrow forsees a world wherein government has reverted to a complete autocracy. In a very literal sense, the time of Julius Caesar has returned in the person of an Italian dictator whose legions and centurions are ruling the world. There is one ruler, one capital, one army, one language, one nationality, one world, one religion. There is time travel, there are locks that open when "recognizing" fingerprints, there are telephones that recognize voices. There are self-shaping sandals, air baths, ever-running chronometers, ro-jet cars that hug the road like a magnet but can sprout wings and fly, and cyanide pellet guns that kill instantly without pain or maiming. Cigarettes have been outlawed as detrimental to health and there is no insurance. The trial marriage system in effect works so well that there are never any divorces. The story that Mr. Offut tells concerns a young man of today, who is whisked one hundred years into the future, and a political truth which he discovers : "there is no perfect government." Mr. Offut's story will appear in the next issue of IF. Watch for it. "Men of Boru" years old, single, and was born in Artesia, California. His family moved to nearby Bellflower, and he attended Excelsior High School where, according to Jack, he learned to chase girls and to throw a reverse body block in football. It was here, too, that Jack was stricken with the malady that has confined him to a wheel chair for the last five years... His hobbies are hunting and fishing -- which he does from a wheel-chair. That handicap hasn't bothered him much though; he's gotten his deer each season for the last three years, plus innumerable rabbits and ducks. And he manages to get his limit of trout quite often by fishing from a rubber raft. After high school, he went to Fullerton Junior College and while taking a writing course there won the California Junior Colleges award for creative writing. At Brigham Young University, from which he graduated this June with a Bachelor of Arts degree, he majored in journalism, was sports editor of the paper, did quite a bit of work in political science and history, won a medal for rope climbing and two other medals for the men's yearly literary award. He's sold magazines, picked fruit, worked in a dairy, been an electrician's helper and a reporter on a daily paper. For the immediate future Jack wants nothing more than to work on a newspaper for a while -- one "where a fellow can whistle when he wants." Men of Boru pictures a future where most of the American people live in underground cities. Fear and a desire for security have driven them into an almost mindless slavery under a "Leader". People sleep when they're told, wake when they're told, eat when and what they're told, and work at a job arbitrarily assigned to them. Each person lives alone, and women mate only with the "Leader's" chosen representatives. Children are cared for by the "Leader's" nurses from the day of their birth. Salt is the highest of luxuries, and mechanically induced dreams are the only recreation. Those who rebel against such slavery are sterilized and brainwashed and forced to live outside on the surface of the Earth. There are a few men who never succumbed to the need for security and who live lives of freedom in the world outside. This is the story of those free men and their efforts to bring the ant-like people of the cities back to reality. Mr. Nelson's story will appear in the January issue of IF, published in November. "Dreamtown, U.S.A." years old and has lived all twentyfive of those years in Kingston, Pennsylvania where he was born. A sophomore at Wilkes College, Wilkes Barre, he is working toward the Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in English. Coupled with his interest in English and literature is an equally strong interest in psychology, subjects which he feels will help him reach his goal of professional writer. After leaving high school he held sundry, short-lived jobs in various parts of the country. He has worked as a concessionaire at seashore resorts, as dishwasher in restaurants, and as a freight handler and window trimmer in department stores. One year was spent sailing the seas in . the Merchant Marine. Italy, Nova Scotia and Venezuela were on the itinerary that year. A childhood ambition to join the circus was realized to some degree when Leo brought to life a clown marionette called "Candy", which he operates nightly on a television program in Wilkes Barre. He'd been working with marionettes for years, ever since the fifth grade. Between high school and the Army he toured professionally with the Meredith Marionettes presenting "Pinocchio" for school children. His tour of duty with the Army Signal Corps was spent in the States. The G.I. Bill and some money saved from the seafaring days are paying his way through college. With two more years of school ahead and a nightly T.V. show, he expects to be kept pretty busy, but hopes, nevertheless, to continue his writing. A world where every effort is bent to the pursuit of pleasure and sensation is the tomorrow of Dreamtown U.S.A. Drugs are a casual everyday part of living, clothes are decorative and brief. There are moving sidewalks, invigorating and soothing rays which relieve tension and hangovers. Each home has a dimensional theater and a ceiling television screen, and parties are an all day and an all night event. Schools of all kinds have been abolished and children are sent to big, bright playgrounds where the biggest buhy is considered the "prize" pupil. All books have been burned, and a person who is caught reading one is a subversive. A council is the protector and provider and producer, and as long as there are parties, pleasures and drugs no one cares who or what the council may be. There are some rebels outside the city; people who remember the dignity of learning, the wonder of books and art, who feel that life has more to offer than pleasure and sensualism. This is the story of the rebels and their fight to capture the city and tO give back man's dignity to those caught in the web of hedonism. Dreamtown, U.S.A. will appear in the February issue of IF, "The Third Party" three years ago in the town of Wolf Point, Montana, located in the northeastern corner of the state ; but has spent most of his life in the Pacific Northwest. He completed the work for his Bachelor of Science degree in chemistry at Whitworth College this year. He had a paper route while in grade and high schools, and the money saved from that paper route paid his first semester at college. Since then he has earned his way by working in a dairy bottling plant during summer vacations. Lee says his only hobby is reading science fiction which he does "voraciously". He started to read it in his junior year in high school and has been doing more and more of it ever since. His favorite authors are Robert Heinlein, Arthur C. Clarke and Isaac Asimov. Although the BS is now an accomplished fact, he plans to start work on his master's at New Mexico Highlands University this fall, with a major in organic chemistry. Research is the real love of his life and Lee Holum hopes fervently that the government or some private industry will come up wdth a job in that field when he's ready to start a career. The Third Party envisions a future in which the moon has been reached and colonized, where the arctic is honeycombed with underground cities, and weather station satellites circle the Earth. Rocket ships are a common mode of travel and there are convertiplanes, conveyor sidewalks, self-molding chairs and electrically heated clothes. The movie industry is a thing of the past, with television providing all entertainment. Chicago is the North American capital, the U.S.S.R. is gone, split into tiny, constantly warring states. The United States after a severe economic collapse, has risen again as part of the North American Republic. There is an Asian Commonwealth, a South American Republic, an Arctic League, a Baltic Federation and a very powerful League of Islam which had gained much stature after the collapse of Russia and the United States. This is the story of political intrigue and attempts by the League of Islam to start a war of destruction between the North and South American Republics; and of the one man, an eminent scientist, who is the focal point in the conspiracy. The Third Party will appear in the March issue of IF. "One Remained to Question the Gardener" Arnold was born in New York City. High school math and science stimulated a desire to be an engineer, and a scholarship made a course in electrical engineering at Cornell University the next obvious this year, after a five year program. The liberal electives that he found time for stimulated a new interest in writing, and writing about the frontiers of science "just sort of came naturally". Participating in almost all sports is his hobby; but wrestling is the only one that he takes seriously. He plans to continue as an amateur athlete in the hope that he may someday place in a national tournament. The immediate future is pretty vtell mapped out for John. He's a reserve officer in the Army Ordnance Corps, but has received a year's deferment to work for Bell Telephone Laboratories in New York City. He's been accepted by Bell Labs for their Communications Development Program, which is the equivalent of graduate study in electrical engineering. Writing is harder than he thought it would be; but John finds that it has forced him to think more deeply and to discover more about himself; and that is enough of a reason to prompt him to plan to go on writing whenever he can find the time. One Remained To Question the Gardener has an America of the future run by electronic brains and computers. Factories, weather bureaus, social insurance -- all that men can feel, taste, see or be affected by in a physical sense is effortlessly controlled by computers. Research laboratories are the center of all human effort. i.Music, art and literature have flourished in this leisure society. Women have reached a state of complete independence. Cooking and cleaning are done by machines, unborn children are carried only three months instead of nine, there is compulsory education from the cradle through college. Cities are deserted by il but career women, and the men have retired to athletic lodges or clubs. This is the story of a new computer which begins to infringe on personal philosoness to be led and controlled on this level too, and of the one man who determines that he will stand by his beliefs and help man transcend the machine. One Remained to Question the Gardener will appear next spring. "Image of God" in Holyoke, Massachusetts, in #, and has had his heart set on being an M.D. ever since. He entered Dartmouth in #, after getting his primary and secondary education in the local schools, and this June was awarded an AB in chemistry and zoology. Summer vacations provided experience as a bus boy, waiter, mail carrier and ditch digger. While marking time between graduation and entering Georgetown Medical School he is working at a local brewery. To while away the hours between chemistry-zoology and ditch digging he explores the "dark mysteries of magic" and gives performances of the art of prestidigitation for church groups, children's parties, etcetera. Photography is another of his sidelines, and developing and printing his own pictures and those of his friends takes up a good part of his spare time. That Medical degree he wants so much has even been the reason for Ed's writing. While at Dartmouth, he discovered that he would need at least two full years of English in order to qualify as a candidate for a medical school. He had already had one year, and a friend suggested some courses to complete the necessary two. A socalled creative writing course was among the suggestions and Ed blindly wandered into it, took it, found he liked it very much. Image of God pictures an America in the grip of an autocracy. It is a world without wars, where Negroes have been exterminated to avoid friction, where all printed matter has been confiscated and burned and where man has been reduced to the level of the machine. Radiation sickness has been conquered but mutations crop up in the succeeding generations, and mutants are hunted down like animals. There are electo guns that paralyze or kill, backjets that can be worn by men and so enable them to fly, and any thinking, above the mindless machine level, is done by members of a world federation which rules the Earth. There are men with a desire for freedom and self-government who have banded together in an underground to revolt against the tyranny that oppresses man. McHugh tells the story of a hunted mutant with a desire to live like other men who finds kinship with the rebels and joins them in their fight for liberty and equality and the right to tread the Earth as an accepted human being. Image of God will appear in IF next spring. "It's Really Sirius" est of our winners. He was born in New York City nineteen years ago, and has been a staunch resident of the Bronx ever since. He has always been interested in design and construction and majored in art and architecture in high school. After graduation he decided to enter engineering school at the College of the City of New York so that he might combine the fields of engineering and architecture. In the fall he will be entering his junior year at college, still working toward a Bachelor of Science in ( Continued on page #) Illustrated by Paul Orban To love your wife is good; to love your State is good, too. But if it comes to a question of survival, you have to love one better than the other. Also, better than yourself. It was simple for the enemy; they knew which one Aron was dedicated to... T he thunder of the jets died away, the sound drifting wistfully off into the hills. The leaves that swirled in the air returned to the ground slowly, reluctantly. The rocket had gone. Aron Myers realized that he was looking at nothing. He noticed that his face was frozen into a meaningless smile. He let the smile slowly dissolve as he turned to look at his wife. She was a small woman, and he realized for the first time how fragile she was. Her piquant face, framed by long brown, flowing hair, was an attractive jewel when set on the plush cushion of civilization. Now her face, set in god-forsaken wilderness, metamorphosed into the frightened mask of a small animal. They were alone. Two hunian beings alone on this wild, lonely planet. Aron's mind suddenly snapped from that frame of reference -- his subjective view of their position -- to the scale of galaxies. It was a big planet to them, but it was a marble in the galaxy that man had discovered and claimed, and was now fighting with himself to retain. This aggrewracked with the violence of war, where marbles were more expendable than the microbes that dwelt on them. The two walked hand in hand away from the meadow where the ship had been. The feeble wind snuffled at the scraps of paper and trash, the relics of man's passing. They walked up the hill to their station, the reason for their being on this wayside planet. Aron thought about the scenery around them. The compact, utilitarian building that was the station did not seem out of place against the bleak landscape. The landscape did not clash or conform to its location -- it just didn't give a damn whether there was a building there or not. Aron and Martha, his wife, took their time. They had an abundance of that elusive quantity known as time at this lonely outpost. The trail up to the station was rough, with rocks and weeds tearing at them. Aron resolved that that would be one of his first projects, to put in a good path to the meadow where the rocket would come for them -- five years from now. The sunset did nothing to enhance the countryside. There was not enough dust in the air to create any striking colors. As the shadows began to lap at the hill, they hurried the last few steps to the building. That evening they were both nervous, justifiably so, for not only were they starting on the questionable adventure of sequestered watchdogs on the planet, they were starting the adventure of marriage. Aron had met Martha on Tyros, a planetary trade center of some importance. She was a waitress. Since he was marking time on Tyros, waiting for his assignment, he had a chance to cultivate her acquaintance. On their dates, what he had to tell her about his life was brief, impersonal. Aron was in the Maintenance division of the Territorial Administration and his duties were to hold posts on various planets and act as an observer of that planet's caprices. The rush of mankind from Earth, like a maddened swarm of bees from a hive, had carried it through the galaxy in a short time. On all the discovered planets that had to be reserved for future inhabitants, the Territorial Administration had set up observation stations. The men posted there were merely to record such fascinating information as meteorological and geographical conditions. When the time came to expand, the frail little creatures with the large brains and larger egos would know the best havens for migration. Another reason for these stations was the war. When man had flung himself madly at the galaxy, he had diffused himself thinly over a macroscopic area. Some almost isolated colonies had developed the inevitable thirst for independence. From local but violent wars between colonies, some semblance of order had been wrought. Now there were two sprawling interstellar empires, the United Empire -- Aron and Martha were citizens -- and the People's Republic. Since Aron's realm relied on industrial technology and agriculture and the People's Republic based its economy on mining and trade, there seemed to be plenty of room for consolidation. Unfortunately this consolidation, or even peaceful trading, was not possible, due to the fact that the two dominions had entirely different forms of government and religion. The result was, as always, war. These were the general facts that both Aron and Martha knew. What Aron discussed with his fiance were the effects of this macropolitiCal situation upon their personal lives. The previous posts that Aron had held in the TA were planets in the interior of the United Empire. During his stay on Tyros, he received the assignment he expected. It was a post on the fringe of the empire, a planet called Kligor. These stations of the fringe served dual purposes, not only their usual function of planetary observation but as military outposts to warn and halt any attempted invasion. When he heard this assignment, Aron proposed, holding up to Martha the prospect of comfortable living in civilization once the five year hitch on Kligorwas over. She consented -- not really knowing if she loved him or not. They had been married the day they left. The space ship was so crowded there was no chance for privacy, so the two had no honeymoon till they reached the station. on Kligor in what was autumn on the planet, for the seasons were consistent in all hemispheres. Aron planned to spend a week at the station with his wife and then begin a planetary check of the various automatic observation stations that compiled the meteorological and other data and. relayed it by radio to the main station. This check had to be completed before snow came to the planet. In that week they learned about each other. Neither of them was young and both were mature and prosaic enough to develop the daily routine of a long-married couple. There were many free hours which they would spend talking about themselves. To Martha, marriage was not new. She had experienced matrimony before. Her husband, a gambler, had killed himself after a bad loss, leaving her with an impossible burden of debt and a disillusioned mind. Since then she had worked, gradually paying off his debts. When Aron had come along, she liked the big man and thought that the years on Kligor would give her respite from a demanding reality. Ste did not. picture herself as a tragic figure but rather as merely compefent-and stable, not realizing that that attitude in itself is a sure sign of instability. A smile seldom found her face. She was slightly nervous with a tendency towards moodiness. Aron's history was not so bitter. He was born in a large family and had formed an aloof, reserved nature to achieve a sense of individuality in the group. His life had been spent in government work and he had never tasted the variable brew of the nuptial cup till he met Martha. He was not a deep man in emotion. His nature was such that he had to be constantly occupied with something -- not the frenzied scurrying of insecure individuals- -- but a solid problem that he could work out. A project that he could carefully shape with a keen analytical mind or capable hands. They did not think of each other in terms of these thumbnail sketches, but merely watched and observed -- and adjusted to each other. Their marriage was almost one of convenience, with just enough affection involved to oil over any disputes. The spell of the planet gradually lulled them into hypnotic acceptance of their sequestered lives. Their daily duties became the only things worth thinking about. Aron learned about the planet in the next two months on his tours of inspection. He used a small atmosphere flier to cover the various posts scattered over its surface. The small blockhouses were automatic and hermetically sealed to preserve the instruments, but something could go wrong and then it was his job to fix it. As for the military defense system of Kligor, that was also automatic but not Aron's responsibility. It was a series of artificial satellites on the rim of the planetary system, with long-range detecting and tracting systems that would activate and co-ordinate firing mechanisms to blast any ship from the void. It was Aron's duty to de-activate them with a control in his station if he was signalled by a pre-arranged code from a friendly United Republic ship. That was all he had to, or could, do with them. The planetary stations were all in good shape except for minor repairs, which Aron attended to with the quiet joy of a man who loves machinery. He was home sooner than expected and just in time. The next day it began to snow. The weather had opposite effects on the people in the station. Aron, long used to such confinements, settled down and began reading some of the great mass of books which he had brought, or working painstakingly on hobbies. Martha grew more distraught as the snowbound months went by. The wild enthusiasm of her youth had left her, but she was not stoic enough to take the long confinement and inactivity. She tried to pick arguments, but Aron wouldn't argue. She tried to get interested in some time-consuming hobby, but she lacked the patience. Spring finally came. On the first nice day MarAa went on a long walk to watch the few flowers that Kligor boasted push their fragile buds into the air. Aron spent the day working on the path and the clearing that was a spaceport. When night came, he was alone at the station. Aron waited up all night, knowing it would be futile to search in the dark, not knowing in which direction or how far she had gone on her stroll. Aron was not too worried, since there were no dangerous animals. She was probably lost or had a sprained ankle, in which case she would have the sense to find a sheltered place and be safe for the night. When morning came he began searching. He used the atmosphere flier to cruise over the nearby country. Up and down hillsides he flew the craft, gliding slowly at a low altitude. He stopped over clumps of bushes for a careful scan, occasionally roaring towards what looked like a piece of cloth, but always turned out to be a bright stone. When he found her, he knew before he landed. She was sprawled at the bottom of a high cliff. She was not pretty any more. She wasn't even a live animal, just dead flesh lying there, smeared with blood and covered with tattered clothes. Aron remained in a stage of pre-shock, a state of cold clear rationality, until he had taken her back to the station, dug a grave and buried her. He wasn't sad, it was just a job to be done. This wasn't his wife he was burying. It wasn't until that evening that the fact of her death penetrated and was accepted by his mind. T he next few days were spent in routine actions. Aron relied on his usual anodyne -- work. The pathway and the meadow were filled with cement by the end of the fifth day. He let his stunned mind become wrapped in the problem of completing this job -- the weight of the shovel in his hand, the heat of the sun on his back -- these were what he thought about. It was not a solution or even escape, just a stall. The sixth day brought a visitor. The shock of someone knocking at the door, walking in, introducing himself and sitting down to talk yanked Aron's mind into awareness. The only way to achieve a landing would be for a friendly ship to signal him and have him deactivate the defenses -- which definitely had not happened! Therefore it was hallucination, a miracle, or at least an interesting trick that this man had appeared at his station. Aron took interest, demanding that the man start from the beginning again as he had missed the introductions due to slight surprise. "I said I am Karl Rondwell, an agent and representative of the People's Republic, being a member of the Intelligence department of her imperial navy," the man replied. "The first question is, naturally," Aron said, "How the Hell did you get here?" A slight smile. "Your muchvaunted defenses that are supposed to be able to snuff out the mightiest fleet, these defenses are easy to pass -- for one man." Aron could see that easily enough. "What is your purpose here then?" "A deal, naturally!" "I imagined so. You will have to persuade me, because you can't remove me and take over those defenses. Lack of knowledge of the proper code would trip you up when our United Empire ships came snooping around as they do so often." "Since we understand the rules of the game," the enemy agent said, "let's proceed with It. "Let me begin with a discussion of civilization. You may have forgotten something about it in your secluded life here." The agent went on to speak of civilization, its comforts. Since he was a spy, he had spent a good deal of time in the United Republic. He spoke in terms of a man with money, the plush night spots, the beautiful girls that would be only too glad to be friendly with a wealthy man. "All right," Aron interrupted him. "That's clever oratory, but money isn't all I'll take to sell out my empire. What else have you to offer, and remember, I'm not buying -- just looking." The agent made his case stronger by comparing plush civilization to the futile hermit's existence of a TA observer, throwing in a few remarks about the brevity of one's life to be wasted in such a barren pastime as five years in solitary confinement. When he began talking about a comfortable married life in a civilized community, he noticed Aron growing distraught. "Why does talk of marriage so disturb you?" he asked. Aron looked at him with a sneer in his eyes, "You must know, you check your victims before you begin your Judas acts." With a rueful grin, the agent replied, "That is one place our agents can't penetrate, your Personnel Records Office. You, being a hard man to know, have made very few acquaintances that we could approach to get your history." Silence. Then Aron said, "All right, here's a bone I'll toss you. You may use it, I don't give a damn! "My wife died five days ago on this planet." He said it with vehemence, probably imagining by some twist of thought that he was shocking, hurting the enemy agent, whereas he actually was deliberately shocking himself. Masochism. "Your wife?" the agent was amazed. "I didn't know your TA observers took wives with them." 'Til bet you didn't know. Though, most of them don't, come to think of it." The agent relaxed, lighted a cigarette -- an ancient habit that cropped up in all eras. "Men can take it," he began quietly. "Women are different. They can take it if they want to, but it's hard to find the right woman; and even then she must want to take it by being with the man she loves, or perhaps it is psychological -- martyring themselves to gain a subtle control of that man, which they all want to do. "When you get a woman who can't, or doesn't want to take it, she can pull a beautiful crack-up. Without friends to appreciate her martyrdom, with a husband who refuses to acknowledge it, she sometimes uses the supreme martyrdom to gain recognition." "Instinct tells me to slug you in the teeth," Aron said, "but apathy forbids me." "Couldn't it be that you refuse to slug me because you want me to keep talking? Because you recognize the truth, that your wife committed suicide because of the loneliness and now your devotion to state has become meaningless? 'The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away' was the old maxim, but 'the State only taketh away" is the new." There was more talk and some drinking, for the agent had conveniently brought some choice liquor. The next morning, after they had arisen from where they had fallen asleep in a stupor, the agent proposed his plan. With the disgust and despair of the hangover, the agent's biting attack on his pride and his state, Aron listened, Later the agent was no longer die enemy, but a partner in a deal. T he next week the ships came. T wenty-seven proud cruisers of the People's Republic; also troop and supply ships. They landed in the broad valley on the main continent of Kligor, twenty miles from Aron's station. The professional fighters emerged from their tools of war, the dull hulls of the ships and the dark uniforms lapping up the pleasant sunshine. The only reflection was from the polished bits of metal that hung at their sides, bits of metal that could spit destruction in ten different forms. They looked at the planet but did not see it, it was just their newly gained base. They did not see the poignant beauty of the seemingly senescent hills covered with wisps of green and bathed in blazing sunshine. They only saw strategic positions, avenues of approach and tactical advantages. The pebble had become a pawn. War had come to Kligor, The slow, subtle weavings of individual threads of human psychology were ripped and snarled as the Mass Effort took over. Conferences were held, land surveyed, machinery trundled from the cavernous holds of supply ships and the base was begun. To, the cadence of barked orders, shuffling feet and grinding, pounding, thumping machinery, the buildings rose, the men moved in. There was the usual bustle of a new military operation, the normal tension of a top-secret operation, the usual bungling and mix-up of supplies. But there was a slightly different attitude toward the gradually growing base. This was not a standard military location, one that had existed for years, or an enemy one that had been capture, or even a piece of ground that had been paid for in blasted hulks and smashed bodies. This gain was by treason. Naturally then, the men felt contempt for the operation and their contempt was manifested in sloppiness. The commanding officers would ordinarily have become raging martinets at such lax discipline and slovenliness, but the taint and contempt of treasonous gain was upon them also. This contempt was displayed openly whenever the Traitor came to the base. Weak egos must be flattered by derision of others. They would have killed him as a matter of course, if he hadn't been clever enough to refuse to relinquish the secret codes which allowed the friendly ships to pass. Torture was obsolete, for hypnosis allowed a victim to die before he could reveal secret information. He came every week to get free supplies and have conferences with the Intelligence men. The Traitor would walk the freshly-laid sidewalk boldly, his head up, his eyes flashing about to take in every new building. The soldiers hazed him, spitting at him, bumping into him, glaring and swearing at him ; but he always reciprocated with such a withering look of contempt that they soon grew tired of the sport. The worst day for the Traitor, alias Aron Myers, was when he went into the Soldier's Club to quench his thirst of a hot day. Since it was a week-end and there was nowhere to go on what few week-end passes were given, the Club was packed. In the dimmed-light atmosphere, the black uniforms made the place seem filled with vagrant and ominous shadows with white faces. The noise was almost unbearable and Aron had a mind to leave. He was confronted by a group of these shadows. They were all the same, indistinguishable in their identical uniforms, crew-cuts and young, arrogant faces. "Hello Mr. Myers," one of them said. "Won't you join us in a drink?" When he started to demur, they interrupted, "But we insist, Mr. Myers." One took him by an arm and led him to a table. "After all," they said as the drinks came up, "We owe you at least a drink for giving us such a nice new base and everything, now don't we." It was sarcasm, and hammy sarcasm at that, Aron thought. He recognized the situation as another case of hazing, but this time by a group of soldiers made even more obnoxious and bellicose by the liquor in their guts. "You don't owe me anything," Aron said, "I gave it to you for my own reasons and not for money." Sure enough, they even came out with the corny laughter. He let them play out their little satire without protest. Their grandiose courtesy towards him, the toasts drunk in his honor. That is, until one of them, more drunk than the others, said, "Mr. Myers, I hope you don't mind my telling you, but you are a -- The epithet was a new slang word but its vileness stemmed from prehistoric days. Aron replied with blazing eyes. "I can't insult you back and you know it. I don't want to be killed that badly. All I can say is: "Who are you to judge me? You are blind little men in a cage trying to judge someone on the outside. "Your hearts and minds have been forged in the crucible of duty and battle. You live for your uniforms and the distinction those uniforms bring you. You live to #ght and die, to spend your spare time in dank, noisy holes like this. Drinking and lying to each other about your adventures and lovelife. "Then you try to judge galactic politics and the decisions of a man caught up in the rip tides of these politics, when all you know is your own vicious lives. You are traitors as much as any man, for you have sacrificed your normal lives to dedicate yourself to the violent deadend of a soldier of space. "Yes, you know what I am talking about, the Fermi radiations! The hard radiations of space that make every person who stays in space any length of time a sure candidate for an early grave. "You're young now, so terribly young, only twenty or so years old in a possible life-span of a hundred years. "You are traitors to yourselves by rejecting this life-span for a few brief years of glory as a soldier, then a slow decay for ten years till you are in a grave at thirty or forty. "Your motto ought to be, 'live fast, fight hard, die young and have a radiation-rotted corpse'. "And yet you condemn a man because he tries to seek a few comforts from an uncomfortable, implacable universe." They didn't get it. They never get it, he thought ruefully. They continued in their cat and mouse game until they realized the mouse refused to be terrified, then they let him go. During the next few weeks, someone started the rumor that the Traitor was actually a native of the People's Republic who had been trained and then planted in the United Empire's T A to do this job for Intelligence. The soldiers quickly believed it and almost came to respect the Traitor. F rom the way that the Intelligence officers freely talked about classified information with him in his weekly visits, Aron was aware that they would probably kill him once his usefulness was over. He was devising ways, though, to get around that at the last minute. From this knowledge that had been blatantly tossed in front of him, he knew how strategic Kligor was in the stalemated war between the empires. The People's Republic now had a fair-sized striking force based there, so that when an all-out offensive, which was scheduled in a few weeks, started, this hidden force could attack United Republic's squadrons from the rear and be doubly effective because of surprise. So the weeks trotted by, the soldiers' camp expanding daily as the Traitor let the supply ships through the barrier. There are moods in war just as in people. This was a crucial point, the People's Republic had gained a slight edge by its gain on Kligor. So the usual pitch of anticipation was infused with the higher excitement of a sure victory. The days were slipping furtively away as the Kligor garrison gathered itself together, crouched and got ready to spring into blind, violent action on the big day. The laughter of the soldiers was tinged with nervous hysteria, but when they thought of that grim array of defense satellites, with its all-seeing eyes, its electronic brain, its steel guts and large parcel of hell in its fist, all this United Empire strength protecting them, their laughter grew louder and more sincere. Aron thanked providence that Kligor didn't have any moons. This particular night called for every ebony patch of darkness that he could find. He was on a nocturnal visit to the base, not using his flier. He knew there were guards posted near his station that would notify the camp when this craft was used. Slipping out the night before and avoiding the guards, Aron had begun the twenty mile hike to the base. As he neared the base his precautions increased, his speed decreasing proportionately. Avoiding the outer ring of guards was easy, as they were spaced far apart. Moving in undetected, through the tigr nets of guards around the camp, required the skill and patience of a feline. That this base should have foot soldiers patrolling the ground around it seemed absurd on the face of it, especially to the men who had to do it. The planet was uninhabited and their only worry was from the skies above where the TA satellites defended them. The Intelligence officers knew better. They knew how easily one man could slip through these defences. One man at a time, for several weeks, and a sizable ground force could be built up in sorne remote spot on Kligor. It was a long shot probability, but it was their duty to protect against such a probability destroying what they had achieved. There was also a traitor, one of those fluctuating spineless things, loose on the planet -- a clever man who couldn't be trusted by anyone. This lack of trust was justified as Aron crawled and inched his way through the last circle of sentries. His whole body was a detecting device, listening for footsteps, watching for dim figures in the dark, even his nose was waiting to detect the odor of a cigarette. According to the paper he had been lucky enough to read in the Intelligence offices when they weren't looking, he knew the Captain of the guards should be making an inspection about then. The seconds hung suspended, reluctant to pass, and Aron waited. The Captain finally showed up, walking briskly, a smile on his face. This smile was rudely erased and all future occasions for smiles removed by a swiftly moving figure that plunged a knife into his throat before his mind could translate the .# shock into a cry of alarm. More movement on the path and a new Captain of the guards emerged, walking just as briskly, but in a new direction. The People's Republic's base occupied the narrow end of the valley, with a canyon entrance serving as the ape.x of the triangle it covered. Near this apex were the buildings, the dozens of barracks and administrative buildings, all dwarfed by the massive concrete warehouses set around them against the hills. In these warehouses were the fuel, food and munitions of the enemy. Below these buildings were the ships, first the rows of the # warships and then the # or so cargo and troop ships. These supply ships made up the base of the triangle. From the air these ships looked like a tiny forest of needles stuck upright in the ground, but from close range on the ground, where Aron walked in the captain's uniform, they were mammoth towers of steel -- again, a matter of scale. He emerged from the sentry lines near the cargo ships. These were all sealed and unoccupied and he passed the rows of them without a glance. It was a long walk, for the ships were hundreds of feet apart. The open field where they rested had the rough ground of a meadow, making his attempted military stride more of a burlesque jerky gait while he tried not to stumble. There was a guard outside the airlock of each of the warships, for the crews remained aboard constantly. These guards were standing around talking to friends or moving restlessly about. The sentries saluted Aron as he marched by, for they could see the brass on his uniform gleaming in the dark. He found what he wanted, a group of four guards talking by one airlock. They snapped to attention as he approached. The base had expanded so rapidly, with new units and men being shifted constantly, that Aron counted on the men not knowing exactly who the Captain of the guards should be. All the sentries knew was the insignia of the Captain was before them and the man who wore them was to be obeyed. His orders sent a chill of alarm through them. He said he had received a report of someone slipping through the guards and moving among the cargo ships. Since the soldiers were needed to patrol, he wanted these men to gather all the warship guards together and search the area of the cargo ships. In answer to the question in their eyes, he said he knew the warships would be unguarded but he was ordering a special detail to replace them immediately. The four dispersed and, in a few minutes, all of the lock guards had left their posts and were moving down to the cargo ships. Time was the critical element now. Aron had taken a terrific chance by donning the Captain's uniform, but he had pulled off the bluff and now he had to capitalize on it -- fast! While the ship sentries were on their futile search, he ran from ship to ship, jumped into the open airlocks and worked quickly with pliers and a screwdriver. It was a little trick that he had learned from a talkative spaceman in a bar many years ago. It. worked on any ship. Disconnect a tiny spring, cut a wire, and it was impossible to close the massive airlock door. Aron wanted very badly to have those doors stay open. Twenty-seven ships, hundreds of feet apart. He was on his last five when the search was abandoned and the sentries began returning. He hoped they would react normally, taking their time, dragging their feet and talking to each other in disgust about the wild goose chase. On the last two ships he had to use different tactics. The sentinels had returned. When he walked up to them, they came to attention sullenly, waiting the chance to deride the usual stupidity of the soldiers and their Captain. Instead, they had their throats cut. Finishing the last airlock, Aron then walked through the post. Right up the main street he strode, his heart in his throat but his step and demeanor firm. The time of night helped him, for there were few soldiers about that might recognize him, and what few patches of light were thrown out from windows and doors, were quickly swallowed by the black maw of darkness. Up the main street, past the barracks, towards the last warehouse at the head of the valley. The two pillars of rock that marked the opening of the canyon served as a background for the massive blank walls of this warehouse. At the little door set in the center of the front wall there was a sentry. He was grumbling to himself about having .to do such a damn-fool thing as guard a warehouse when there wasn't an enemy within light years of the building. He was wrong. And the enemy killed him. Inside the warehouse, there being no lock on the door, Aron groped about in the stuffy, pitch blackness till he came to a little fire station set against a wall. There was a locker containing an insulated suit, hatchet and other firefighting equipment, at this station. He donned the fire-fighting suit and helmet and went to one end of the building that was walled-off. In this separate room was the emergency power supply for the base. There was a turbine with a fuel supply and tiers of high-voltage storage batteries. There was also a fire hose on one wall because of the presence of the combustible turbine fuel. Aron had to pause for a minute to gather his thoughts. He had come so far, so fast through the first steps of his plan and now he was ready for the final action. What Aron now needed for success was three things. Sulphuric acid and salt water in large quantities and the right wind. The first two had been thoughtfully provided by the People's Republic. The third was a matter of waiting. The land on Kligor was dry. What little water supplies were available weren't enough to. maintain a base the size the garrison had built. Since the ocean was only fifteen miles from the valley where the base was located, it was a simple matter to pipe in water. One of the mammoth cargo ships JJ# had been loaded with six inch flexible hose, tougher titan steel, wound on drums. It was a matter of a day's work to fly the ship slowly from the ocean to the base, laying out fifteen miles of this flexible pipe on the ground. It was salt water, then, that was received at the base. Most of it was filtered through a chemical plant in the valley to make fresh water, but it was salt water that was available to the fire hoses for the needed quantity and pressure. The emergency power supply and the fire hoses were only normal safety precautions, but now, in the hands of the Traitor, they became deadly weapons. By pushing the lever that removed the lids from the storage batteries automatically for inspection he had sulphuric acid -- for the law of conservation of energy said fhat man had achieved the highest efficiency of electro-chemical conversion, in practical form, in the lead acid storage battery. After finding the light switch and flipping it on, Aron found this lever and released it. Now all he needed was wind, and he had that, blowing a cool ten miles an hour down the canyon and over the valley. He had to consult the weather maps at his station for weeks to determine the probability of this wind occurring and the weather conditions that produced it. One small breeze to chart, when his recording instruments gave hourly descriptions of the whole planet's climate. It wasn't too hard a job. Yet that breeze had to be at the right time, at night and on the night he wanted. Close enough to the attack date to be effective yet not too soon. Last night his instruments recorded the data that would produce this wind, so he was making his strike tonight. He could not stand and gloat exultantly over his success. There were dead sentries and sprung airlocks that might be discovered. With a twist of a nozzle, the fire hose came to life, throwing a pulsing stream of water on the batteries. What Aron had done by ingenuity, luck, daring and careful planning was finished. It was now nature's turn. T he next night after his one man attack on the base, Aron had a visitor at his weather station. The visitor was in sad shape. His clothing was disheveled, his face dirty and unshaven, his eyes bloodshot and he seemed to be on the verge of a mental collapse tvith a frantic gleam to his eye. But he held a pistol in his hand and Aron didn't. He was an officer of the Intelligence Corps of the People's Republic. It was not the officer who had first visited Aron; but one of the others that Aron had come vaguely to know, like picking out sheep from a flock. He had been away from the base on a planetary reconnaissance mission the night before. Since then he had gone through a nightmare ordeal. He had returned to his base to find sixty ships of the People's Republic about to fall into enemy hands without a struggle, because # men were dead or dying of chlorine gas poisoning. The gas that had come pouring ot#' of thewarehouse at the head of the vallto last night. It had billowed down me valley, its streamers and tentaclespushed by the gentle wind bringing the sleeping men awake coughing and gasping only to fall asleep again -- permanently. It had seeped through the barracks, the warehouses and into the open airlocks of ships, while dying men tried frantically to close those locks. They wouldn't close though, and the spacemen died puzzled as to why not. In galactic warfare, with the emphasis on speed, maneuverability, range and power of space cannon, et cetera, everyone had forgotten an archaic weapon -- gas. Aron hadn't. After the horror of this discovery, the Intelligence officer had taken a flier to Aron's station. He was feeling justifiably sorry for himself and his empire's thwarted plans for conquest, now completely impossible since the United Empire had been notified of the impending attack, and since the most strategic part of that attack, the Kligor task force, had been destroyed. His military mind refused to admit that one man, the Traitor, Aron, could have caused this tragic vent his desire for revenge on this one man. Aron was unmoved by his threats and denunciations. The Intelligence man was going to kill him, certainly, but the officer wanted to make him suffer first, to make him squirm. When one man has defeated and completely made fools of a galactic "We weren't stupid enough to try to coerce you with pure logic," the agent was saying to Aron. "We knew you must have a large amount of patriotism to even take such a thankless job as this Kligor post. "There had to be something else, some stronger reason to make you reject your empire." Aron watched him warily. He could tell by the malevolent gleam of the Intelligence man's eye and the sneer that he was playing a trump, that he had a choice bit of information he thought would hurt Aron. All Aron could do was listen. "You came here happily married and full of patriotic zeal," the armed man said. "That way you were no prospect for us. "We changed those conditions by a very simple act. "We killed your wife." The officer watched him like a hungry animal, waiting for the reaction. The reaction was a pitying smile and the following words. "Why don't you sit down. I know you are going to kill me, there's nothing I can do about it and, actually, I don't object. But I would like to say several things first and you might as well be comfortable while I'm talking. "I want to speak my piece mostly to clarify my ideas before death, but also so that you, who will continue to live, will be able to think about them in the future." While the agent sat down with a puzzled look, Aron continued, "That is why, when there is combat between men, it will always be in doubt. Even though one side may be outnumbered, outmaneuvered and have all the military laws of advantage against it, that side can still win. "You have made the one mistake, the perpetual mistake, of combat. You forgot about the psychological factor. The force that can make a man surrender when the odds are with him, or fight like a demon when it is hopeless. "So long as there is war, this psychological factor will make it an even, undecided combat despite all laws of logic. "The psychological factor in this case, the one you overlooked, was that I love my empire more than my wife. She was merely a companion. You wouldn't know that, or the reasons for it, unless you knew my whole life -- and not just the events of my life, my whole psychological life." "Of course we couldn't know that," the enemy agent said, "but we could go on general rules of human behavior, and those rules deny the fact that a man can love a state more than a woman." "What training do you Snooper boys get? You don't even know the rudiments of p.sychology. Intelligence men -- ha! All you know how to do is steal papers, kill in the dark and be suspicious of everyone all the time." In a quieter tone, Aron went on, "It is easy to love a state like a woman, because a State is a woman. "A love for State fulfills all emotional needs. The censorship of yourself by your super-ego, manifested in a desire for repentance or masoschism, this need is effected by dedication such as my lonely watch here. "Your destructive tendencies, half of the love-hate primary drive of life, can be expressed by fighting and destroying an enemy. You can't destroy your wife because of laws, yet everyone wants to. "The other half of the ambivalent drive, your love desire can be committed in a platonic admiration or a patriotic zeal as you call it. "Sure, the State is a woman. It'll kick you around, neglect you and abuse you; but when she rewards you, she does so lavishly. And this, plus the self-satisfaction of having protected her from her enemies and helping her to survive -- this is all the consumatlon of a love affair that a man could want. "I know, what about the physical love? If all your other emotional needs are so well satisfied, you can be happy without that, especially if you're used to it -- " The agent interrupted. Aron knew he was not comprehending what he was saying, the man was still in a state of shock. But Aron knew the words were there, in the man's brain till he died. He could reason them out later. "All right, all right," the agent said, "I am not here to argue philosophy. I just want to know why our plans failed. "Since your wife's death didn't rnake you disillusioned enough to be receptive to treason, weren't you at least impressed with our offers of fabulous wealth and release from this prison?" Aron rose from his chair and walked to the window. He didn't notice the agent and his menacing gun. He didn't care. He looked out at the lifeless sunset of the world that sported the bare minimum of vegetation so it couldn't be insulted with the word "barren". "Just another case of Intelligence men's stupidity," Aron said so quietly that the other man had to lean forward to hear. "Don't you know anything about your own territorial administration or ours? Do you know how they choose their men for these stations?" "No, that isn't our department," was the answer. Aron turned from the window and looked at him, seeming surprised to see him and hear him. "Well, what sort of men would they choose? Where could they get men with the intelligence and ability required to operate one of these stations and cope with situations such as I've faced here? Where would they get such men to recould have amongst, civilization with such capabilities?" "Damn it! Stop playing games. Spill what you've got to say!" Aron looked at him coldly, searchingly, "Since you are attached to the Navy I imagine you've clocked many hours in space." When the agent nodded, Aron said, "Then, if you are lucky and show enough sense, you will become a TA man." Slowly, comprehension came to the Intelligence man. The gim clutched in his hand lowered, his whole body slumped as he caught on to the fact they had overlooked. The fact that caused the failure of their plans. The fact that was his grim future. "Fermi radiations!" Aron barked. "They rot your cells, weaken the blood, ruin the body. A man can spend about five years as a spaceman, about twenty months of which is spent in actual space. Twenty months and the man is doomed. "If the man is smart he can become a space officer, then when he retires at twenty-five, he can land a good job with the TA. He doesn't want anything to do with civilization. That five years has made him love space, love isolation. So, they put out to pasture on wayward planets until they die at thirty-five." It was said with all the bitterness of a condemned man. "What use would I have of your offers, even if they were true. When I finish, or rather, if I had finished my stay on Kligor, I'd only have a few months till I die. Your pleasant little cries of adventure, luxury, women, meant nothing. (Continued on page #) Lt. Jason Jonasse had one more lesson to learn before duty on the Frontiers: that the Past and Future are one, but it is the Future which demands the courage. Illustrated by Ed Emsh of Jason Jonasse that made it difficult for him to understand his fellow man. But mainly, it was his background. His family was of the military. From their native city on Kilbur Two, during the past hundred years or so, had come a steady stream of Jonasses. Mostly, they died, in one way or another, while serving humanity on the Frontier of man's expanding spatial area. Those who did not, won through to advancement and posts of high honor. All, however, without exception, made the first step of transfer from the backwaters of military duty, earning their right to carry their officer's buttons to Glass A Service in the Frontier Zone. It was this transfer that Jason had just received and which was propped now on the toilet shelf beside the shaving mirror in his quarters, where he could feast his eyes on it during the process of trimming the straight black lines of his little mustache, with the aid of that selfsame mirror. The mustache was an index of his character, so essentially Kilburnian, so uncompromisingly military, so uniquely Jonasse. It was the final seal upon his difference, the crown upon his height and the lean good looks of his breed, and the uniform of which tunic cape and boots were custom-tailored. There was no one thing about him which did not set him off from the other officers of this small military garrison on Aster. For this small lost planet out in the Beltane Quadrant was class C duty; and the other officers were Class C officers, as Jason had been, serving his apprenticeship in a sort of police duty, until the blessed arrival of the transfer, welcome as a pardon to a life sentence prisoner. Jason beamed at it, working the clippers carefully over the ends of the mustache, for his baggage was packed and ready for the next courier ship that came and the transfer was his passport to the future. A buzzer rang through his room, and Jason jerked at the unexpected suddenness of the sound. For a split-second the clippers slipped, chopping a little, ragged v out of the top line of the mustache, a v unfortunately beyond the ability of any clipping to disguise and anything but time to mend. For a moment, Jason stared at its reflection in the mirror. Then he cursed, threw down the clippers and thumbed the switch of the intercom. "Officer Five Jonasse here," he said. "Headquarters, Chief Troopman Basker, Sir," said the Speaker. "The Commandant would like you to report to his office right away. Officer." "It'll be right there. Chief." "Right, sir." Scowling, Jason buttoned his tunic and clipped his cape about his shoulders. There was no good reason why the Commandant should want to see him, unless there had been some change in his orders directing the transfer. And if that... Jason clamped down on the speculative section of his mind and left his quarters, hurrying across the drill-ground to the Headquarters Building. Hot sunlight hit him a solid blow as he stepped out of the shade of his quarters. The Timudag, as the plains country of Aster's one large continent was known, broiled during the summer months under a cloudless sky. Jason strode across it and stepped gratefully into the air conditioned coolness of the Headquarter's Building. The Commandant was waiting for him in the outer office. Like Jason, a Kilbumian, but without the Jonasse family tradition of Service, he had won little recognition during his short term of Frontier Class A Service; and, having no prospects to speak of on retirement from that, had fallen back on Class C duty, where the retirement age was much higher. A thin, cold man, he did not particularly like Jason though a scrupulous sense of fairness forced him to admit that the younger Kilbumian was far and away the most valuable of his men, "You messaged for me, sir?" said Jason. The Commandment took Jason's elbow and drew him aside, out of earshot of the troopmen at work at clerical tasks about the outer office. "Something has come up, Jason." Jason felt cold apprehension and hot resentment. But he held it locked within him. "The courier ship has just arrived," the Commandant said. "It brought your replacement -- and another man." The Commandant looked out the window and back to Jason again. "The other man's an officer retired from Class A Service," he went on. "And he carries a request from the General Commander of our Quadrant to give him every assistance in returning home." Jason looked at the Commandant in puzzlement. This was nonsensical. If the man was from Aster, he was already home. If he was not from Aster, why had he come to Aster, to this outlying station to obtain assistance? "I don't understand," he said honestly. "His home," explained the Commandant briefly, "is in the Timumang." derstand. North of the Timudag, on Aster's one large land mass, lay the Timumang, the Mountains of the People. Boulder-strewn upthrust of the continental geosyncline to the north, it housed the degenerate descendants of an early abortive attempt at colonization, four hundred years before the coming of civilization proper to Aster. Wild and suspicious, these forgotten people had backslid to a clan-tribal form of organization. They warred on each other, lived off their inhospitable country in the course of nomadic wanderings, and shunned their latter-day cousins of the lowlands as if they had been plague-ridden. The Timumang ignored the Timudag. Jason had not, in his term of service guarding the Interstellar Message Station and the few raw little towns of the Timudag, been anywhere near the Mountains of the People. Nor, as far as he knew, had any of the other men at the station. But of course he had heard stories. There were other worlds where the tragic accident of too-early colonization had taken place, and the settlers had backslid to savagery or near-savagery. They were the cobwebbed corners that the Central Headquarters on Earth, like a busy housewife, was always planning to do something about and never getting to. From them, every so often, would come the rare case of a degenerate who ran away or escaped from his own people to join the ranks of civilization. Sometimes such men rose to respectable positions. But the tendency of ordinary people was to feel some repugnance toward them -- reminders as they were of the fact that the human race was not completely without exception shooting up the dizzy stairs toward the millenium. "A degenerate!" Jason muttered. "An ex-officer," corrected the Commandant coldly. Jason felt his temper rising, but held it back. He returned to the crux of the matter. "I interrupted you, sir," he said. "Pardon me." "Well," said the Commandant. "He'll need an escort and an officer to command the escort." "You don't mean me, sir?" said Jason, aghast. "My orders -- " "I've no choice," said the Commandant, irritably. "And the delay in your transfer needn't be fatal. I've got no one else I can trust with such a job. He won't take more than twenty men." Jason stared, incredulous. "You can't go into the Timumang with just twenty men," he said, at last. The Commandant snorted. "Come and talk to him, yourself," he said, turning and leading the way toward his private office. "And remember, the Commander General requests our assistance. There's no dodging this." Bitterly, Jason followed him, the sour anger of the betrayed curdling in his stomach. Mere hours from shipping out, they had to send him off on a what sounded like a suicide mission. Not that Jason had any objections to dying, if the time and place were right -- but to be possibly clubbed to death in what amounted to a backyard brawl ! The Commandant ushered him in and a man sitting in one of the easy chairs of the office rose to greet them. He was a curious figure, as tall as the two Kilburnians, but so broad of shoulder and long of arm that he seemed much shorter. In the dark skin of his face, set above flat, heavy cheekbones and beneath pronounced brows, his brown eyes looked out at them with the soft liquidity of an animal. There was something yielding and sad about him. Not guts, thought Jason, harshly, out of the fury of his resentment. No backbone. The Commandant was introducing the two men. Jason shook hands briefly. "Mr. Potter, this is Officer Five Jason Jonasse," said the Commandant. "Jason, this is Mr. Kerl Potter, formerly an Officer Three." "Honored to meet you," said the degenerate. His voice was husky and so deep that he almost seemed to croon the words. "Pleasure is mine," replied Jason briefly and mechanically. "The Commandant tells me you think twenty men is a sufficient escort into the Timumang." "Yes," replied Potter, nodding. "Why, that isn't nearly enough strength," said Jason. "The average dan usually musters at least a hundred fighting men." "I know," Kerl Potter smiled, a warm, but deprecating smile. "I grew up in the Timumang -- or had the Comrnandant told you?" He didn't have to, thought Jason, looking at the man with disgust and disfavor. Aloud he said, "Any single tribe would be more than a match for us." "Please " Kerl held up his hand. "Let me explain." Jason nodded, curtly. "I wish to get back to my own clan -- the Potter Clan," said the dark man. "For that we must go in on foot and search, because the clans move constantly, and from the air -- which would be the quickest way of going -- there is no way to tell which tribe is which. They go to earth when they see a flyer." "I'll admit that -- " began Jason. "So we must go in on foot," continued Potter, his deep voice like distant summer thunder in the office. "We must hunt for campsites until we find Potter sign at one. And then we must trail the clan until we catch up with it." He paused, looking at Jason and the Commandant to see if they understood. "Now," he said, "that means we must go through much Timumang territory. If we are too large a group, the word will go ahead of us and all clans will hide and we will never catch up with the Potters. If we are too few, the first tribe we meet with will destroy us. Therefore the solution is to have enough men to discourage attack, but not enough to frighten the clans into moving out of our way. When we have found the Potter Clan, you can drop me off and call for air 'transport to pick you and the men up and bring you back." Kerl wound up the argument and smiled at Jason as if to soften the young man's opposition with good humor. Jason looked helplessly at the Commandant, who shrugged and looked out the window, washing his hands of the matter. "Look, Mr. Potter," said Jason, turning back to the man and making an effort to be reasonable. "These men of ours are all Class C. They know something of police duty in the towns here, and maintaining order generally. What they know about expeditioning is nothing -- " "You can take your pick of the station, Jason," said the Commander. It was the culminating blow, the stab in the back. Turning to look at his superior officer, Jason realized finally that he was not to be allo-ed to avoid this expedition, nor to alter the conditions of it. For some reason, some intricacy of interbranch politicking, it had become necessary for the General Commander to oblige Kerl Potter and for the Commandant to oblige the General Commander. It struck him as symbolic. As the degenerates were a clog and hamper upon the progress of humanity, here was Kerl Potter, their representative, to be a clog and hamper upon the progress of Jason, representative of the outseeking spirit of Man. His spirit bent under the blow, but pride held his body upright. "Well, thank you. Commandant," said Kerl, turning to the commanding officer. "I'll look forward to leaving tomorrow then." He turned back to Jason. "Until then, sir." "Until then," said Jason, and watched him leave. When the door had shut behind the broad back, he turned once more to the Commandant. "This is unfortunate," said the Commandant, reading his eyes. "But into each life some rain must fall, eh?" Damn him! thought Jason. "Yes sir," he replied woodenly. for the expedition with the same lack of sympathy the Commandant had shown in the choice of Jason, himself. He was curt with the Quartermaster, harsh with Ordnance, and unfeeling toward Transportation. At the end of the day the expedition had been outfitted with turned to his quarters to write a letter to his family on Kilbur Two, explaining that his expected entrance into the realm of glory would be somewhat delayed. "... the duty (he wrote his father, after the usual family wellwishes) is hardly one that I would have wished for at this time. Aside from the fact that I am naturally eager to enter on my Class A assignment at the Frontier, I do not expect to find it pleasant to be cooped up, possibly for weeks, with such a man. Your instincts, I know, would cause you to advise me to treat him with respect for his former rank as an Officer Three. Ordinarily, such respect would be automatic on my part. However, this is no ordinary case. In the first place, he has obviously left the Service long before the earliest age of retirement, which argues a lack of courage, or at least of character. And in the second place, to meet the man is to realize there is. nothingat all to respect about him. And finally (if .any more were needed) the fact that he is turning his back on the competition of civilized life and running back to hide in the stagnant safety of the primitive. If there is one thing that revolts me, it is a lack of courage..." And more in that vein. By the time Jason had filled a couple of micro-reels, he was more resigned, if not reconciled to his task. He got to bed and managed to get to sleep. He awoke to the day's duty. The men were mustered on the drill field under the leadership of Chief Troopman Acy, a non-commissioned officer who had grown up in the foothills of the Timudag to the north, and whose knowledge of local conditions, slight as it was, might prove to be useful. Looking the detachment over, Jason had to admit that if any men from the station could do this job properly, these were the ones. All were fit professionals with more than one hitch to their credit and a few had even had some combat experience. Jason nodded and ordered Chief Troopman Acy to move them over to Transportation. Kerl Potter was waiting for them when they arrived, his dark figure a still monument of patience in the clear morning sunlight. A transport was waiting for them, already loaded with two man cars and supplies. They embarked. The transport flew them to a spot where the foothills gave way to the mountains. Here they landed and transferred all personnel and equipment to the two man cars. When all was ready, Jason signed off the transport and gave the order to mount, taking the lead car himself, with Kerl in the bucket seat beside him. The transparent tops of the cars were shut and the caravan led off up a steep and unmarked valley toward a pass into the mountains. "Now," said Jason, turning to his passenger as they topped the pass. "Where to?" Kerl turned brown eyes to him and away and pointed out and ahead to where a long canyon that lay like a knife slash through the mountains, its further end lost in distance. "North," he said. "Straight north until we pick up sign." Jason nodded and turned the car off in the direction of the canyon. Like obedient mechanical sheep, the cars behind swung through the turn, each in their proper order, and followed him. It was about an hour's run to the beginning of the canyon. From there, the route they were following sloped down and the steep walls rose high and forbiddingly above them. Gazing at this barrenness and the apparent lack of life, with the exception of the stunted bushes clinging in the cracks of the boulders, Jason felt his stomach turn over at the thought of deliberately spending a lifetime, by choice, in such an environment. It would he worse than being dead. It would be hell without a purpose. How did these people live? "Mainly off game," said Kerl beside him ; and, turning with a jerk, Jason realized she had spoken his last thoughts aloud. "There's quite a bit of it. Wild mountain sheep and goats descended from stock the early settlers themselves brought in. Native species, too, of course, but they aren't edible. Only their furs are useful." "I see," said Jason, stiffly. "It's not a bad life when you're used to it," Kerl went on. "You'd be surprised, Jason -- you don't mind me calling you Jason, do you? Seems foolish to be formal when we're cooped up like this -- but if you like the mountains and like to hunt, it can come close to being ideal." Jason had meant to keep his mouth shut; but this last statement was too much. "Exactly," he said, bitterly, "and let the rest of the race take care of you." Kerl looked at him in surprise. "The Peoples of the Mountain don't ask help from others," he protested, mildly. "How about the Frontier?" demanded Jason. "How about the Class A troops that protect the inner worlds like this from attack by some inimical life form?" "What inimical life form?" countered Kerb "We've never run across one intelligent enough to be a threat." "That's no sign there isn't one," said Jason. "Nonsense," said Kerl, but without heat. "The Class A troops have only one real function and that's to clean up planets we want to take over. You know that." "I -- " Jason realised he was getting into the sort of argument he had promised himself to avoid. He bit his tongue and closed his mouth. Two seconds more and he would be telling this man what he thought of degenerates in general. "The mountaineers are a sturdy self-sufficient people," Kerl went on. "They even have a few virtues that are largely lacking in the outside world." "Virtues!" said Jason. His hard-held temper was about to snap when an interruption occurred that saved him from himself. From nowhere there was suddenly the sound of thin, crescendoing screams. Something slapped with sickening violence against the transparent cover of the car, leaving a small grey smudge; and half a second later came the sound of a distant report. "What was that?" Jason snapped. Kerl pointed away and up to the high rim of the canyon where a tiny plume of white smoke rose lazily in the still air. "They're shooting at us," he said. "They use chemical firearms, you know, with solid missile projectiles. We've moved into the area of one of the clans." Jason's hand shot toward the intercom button that would activate the speakers in all the cars behind him. Kerl caught his fingers before they could activate the mike. "Let it go," he said. "That was just a warning to make sure we keep traveling. If they meant to attack they wouldn't give themselves away by shooting from a distance." He pointed at the smudge on the overhead transparency. "No harm to it. The plastic is missile proof." Jason looked at him icily for a minute then continued to reach for the intercom. His fingers touched the button. "All cars," he said, into the mike. "Keep your tops up. There'll be sporadic shooting at us from now on. Kerl smiled a little sadly, and looked away, into the distance of the canyon, winding out of sight ahead. F or a week they searched, always headed north. They traveled by day, barracking at night, sentries posted, and sleepers locked in their individual cars. By night, the stars glittered, cold and frosty and distant, far above the jagged tops of the mountains; and every rattle and slither of falling stone made the sentries jerk nervously and grab their power rifles in sweatdampened hands. By day it was better only because of sunlight and company. The eleven cars jolted and rocked their way down one valley and up the next, moving in single file. From time to time they would run across the cold ashes and litter of an abandoned clan campsite and halt for a few minutes while Kerl prowled about it, sifting the ashes with his finger, sniffing like a huge black bear at any discarded equipment. Then they would rebark and be moving again. Every so often from the cliff tops above them would spurt a little puff of grey smoke and seconds later would come the report of a chemical energy missile jBrearm and the whack and scream of a solid slug as it bounced off the transparent cover of one of the cars. The shooting ground on the nerves, a constant reminder of the unseen, inimical, mountain dwellers waiting just out of sight and reach for something, to happen to the detachment. It was hard on the nerves of the men of the detachment. And it was hard on Jason, chafing at the bit to be free of this degrading duty, faced with the responsibility of holding untested troops to their work, and forced to live cheek by jowl with a man whom training and his own inclinations forced him to despise. It was a situation with explosive potentials. And the first touch of violence brought these out into the open. On their seventh day out and some nine hundred miles north and slightly west of the point at which they had entered the Timumang, they were proceeding down a long narrow valley. To the left, a small stream marked their road for them, clear water singing down the narrow, level throat of the valley. Beyond it, a series of slopes faded up and back to the skyline. To the right, the cliffs rose more steeply, sharp, pitching angles rubbled with boulder and sharp-cornered loose rock. Jason had been guiding the caravan of cars as usual, his hands on the controls, his mind a dozen light years off on the Frontier and the job he had yet to do there. Abruptly he felt a hand on his arm. Yanked abruptly back to the present and the Timumang, he turned with no great pleasure to see Kerl staring at him with a frown line deep-graven between the brown eyes. "What is it?" said Jason. "I've got a hunch," answered Kerl. His deep voice filled the interior of the little car with hollow sound. "I think we ought to turn back." "Turn back?" echoed Jason. "This valley," said Kerl. "I dori't like it. I don't like the feel of it. We could go back and take another one." Jason throttled down the speed of the car but kept it moving forward. "Now let's get this straight," he said, impatiently. "You don't think we ought to go any farther down this valley. Why?" "We may be attacked," answered Kerl. "We haven't been shot at for some hours now. That's a bad sign." "Couldn't we be traveling through an area where there are no people?" "Could be," admitted Kerl. "But I've got this hunch -- " Jason considered, keeping his face blank. On the one hand, the man beside him was supposed to know these mountains. On the other hand, the little knowledge he had so far gained of the mountaineers had given him a kind of contempt for them. "Tell me," said Jason abruptly, "have you any definite reason for warning us out of this valley? Any -- " he stressed the word slightly -- "real evidence?" "No," said Kerl. "We'll go on," Jason said flatly. The detachment proceeded without trouble. As they approached the far end of the valley, it became too narrow for two of the cars abreast. Abruptly, Kerl shot out an arm and skidded the car to a halt. Behind them the rest of the detachment slammed brakes to keep from piling up. "What now?" demanded Jason, exasperated. "I was right. Look -- " Kerl pointed directly ahead to a low mound of stones that half-blocked the route. "A food cache. The tribe around here has been on a hunting sweep." "What's that got to do with us?" demanded Jason. "We don't want their food." "But they don't know that," said Kerl. Jason looked at him; and the thought crossed his mind that the other man was pushing his point home out of sheer stubbornness. It bolstered his belief that there was a cowardly streak in Kerl. "We'll go forward," he said. "If trouble comes, it'll be time enough to turn back." "I don't -- " said Kerl; and suddenly his face twisted in alarm. He thrust out with both hands, slamming home the throttle and activating the intercar communicator. "Forward! Full speed!" he yelled. And, Jason, slammed back in his seat by the acceleration, had just time to grab for the steering bar as the little car leaped forward. As he shot past the cache, the reason for Kerl's actions became horribly apparent. High up the steep slope to the right the top of the cliff seemed to be bowing forward like the head of an old man and crumbling slowly and majestically into a thousand pieces. Distance lent it a gentle air as if the whole process was taking place in slow motion, but Jason realized suddenly with a sickening sense of shock that thousands of tons of rock were in that landslide, tumbling down upon him and upon the detachment that was his responsibility. With no time for cursing fate or bawling orders, he hung grimly to the controls of the car and prayed that the men behind him had followed. For an agonizingly long time it seemed that they would make it. And finally, when the dust and the rattle of smaller stones closed about them, it proved impossible to tell. At that moment a huge rock came springing out of nowhere at Jason's car, and he felt a terrific blow that flung him into darkness. L ate that night, after two dead troopers had been buried in the shattered frame of one of the cars, Kerl went hunting Jason. He found the young officer standing off by himself, wrestling with his devils in the darkness. It is not easy at any time, but particularly the first, to have to face the fact that an arbitrary decision of yours has cost two men their lives. And this becomes worse when there is ground for self-blame in the reasons behind that decision. Rightly or wrongly, Jason believed, and would go on believing for the rest of his days, that his dislike of Kerl had killed two men. He was not particularly glad, therefore, when Kerl loomed up out of the darkness beside him. "Well?" he said. "The men are pretty well bedded down," replied Kerl. "I thought you'd like to know. They've got the last car fixed, so we can go on with nine of them, tomorrow." They stood in silence for a little while. "I know how you're feeling," volunteered Kerl, finally. "Do you?" said Jason, savagely. "I did the same thing myself once," said: Kerl. "Shortly after I Was taien into Class A Service. I was on Kelmesii and I thought I'd save time by fording a river. It was shallow enough and the water was clear enough, but there was more current than I thought and I hadn't the foresight to rope the men together. I lost five troopers." Jason said nothing. "You'd better come back inside the ring of cars," said Kerl. Jason looked up at the cliff. And then, just at that moment, the moon crept into sight, bathing the whole long valley suddenly in silvery luster. And in that same split second, born almost it seemed of the light itself, came a long, keening, wavering cry, that quivered out alone over the valley for a minute and then was taken up by many voices in something half-song, half-wail. Jason halted as If struck. "What's that?" he said, staring at Kerl. The dark man's face in the bright moonlight was etched and hollowed by mysterious shadows. He looked off at the hills. "There was some shooting while you were unconscious," he answered. "One of the men evidently hit and killed the clan's head. That's the lament for a chieftain." They turned in silence and went back to the cars. The voices followed, crying on their ears. The men in the cars were somber and quiet as they broke camp the next morning. Once they were moving, their little car trundling up out of the valley to head into the next one, Kerl spoke to Jason. "Things may start occurring to the men," he said. "Things?" repeated Jason, sharply. "Wliat things?" "That if I was out of the way, they could start back to the lowlands." Jason stared at him. "What?" he said, half-unable or right. "Don't look so shocked," said Kerl. "It's a natural reaction." "These troops are completely trustworthy!" Jason felt his face warming with anger. Kerl shrugged and looked away, out front at the barren cliffs. "It's something to think of," he said. "It's important to me to reach my destination." Jason felt words coming to his lips. He tried to check them, but the pressure inside him was too great. "More important than men's lives?" Kerl turned to face him again. His features were unreadable. "To me," he said, "yes." For what seemed a very long moment they seemed to sit poised, staring at each other. Then Kerl said, very softly: "You don't understand." "No," said Jason. "Tell me," said Kerl. "What do you intend to do with your life?" "I am a career officer," answered Jason stiffly. "Serving humanity on the Frontier, eventually, no doubt?" "Of course." Effort kept Jason's voice level. "I was ready to leave for the Frontier when you arrived." "And I held up your transfer," said Kerl, thoughtfully. Jason could think of no rejoinder to this that would not be explosive; and so said nothing. "Each to his own," Kerl went on, after a pause. "I was a Frontier officer myself, as I said. On Kelmesh." It was the one weak spot in the armor of Jason's resentment. This man was a former officer. To Jason the words implied the very opposite of all that the word degenerate implied. He felt his fury ebb with a rush leaving him floundering in uncertainty. "I don't understand you," he said helplessly. "I don't understand you at all." The new valley dipped abruptly before them and Jason found that all the attention of his eyes was required to guide the car. "Let me tell you about myself," he heard Kerl say. "I was a chief's son," said Kerb "I am still, for that matter, for there is nothing that can take that away from you. If my father has died while I was gone I am chieftain; my people will offer their hands to me as if I had never been away. But I am also a deserter." "Deserter," murmured Jason, finding the military ring of the word odd in context with the mountain people. "Deserter," repeated Kerl, strangely, as if for him the word had some hidden, personal meaning. "I ran away. I wanted to go down to the lowlands. I wanted to go to civilization and become famous. Not that being famous in itself was important. It was what it stood for. I wanted to leave my mark on the race." "So you ran away?" "We were camped one day near the southern foothills. My father had refused permission for about the thousandth time. That night I went. Three days later I was wear# ing a uniform back at your station there. That was twenty years ago. I was fourteen years old." Jason shot him a glance of shocked surprise. "You w'ere in the Service for twenty years?" he asked. Kerl shook his head. "I put in three years and saved my money. Then I took off toward the frontier as a civilian pioneer. I bounced from new planet to new planet, doing everything -- mines, timber, weather, construction. It was a rough life, but I liked it. It was like home." He means the Timumang, thought Jason, looking bewilderedly at the bleak mountains. "Then one day I woke up. I was twenty-eight and I hadn't even started to do the things I wanted to do. I hadn't left my mark on the progress of civilization, but it had left its mark on me. Suddenly all the wishing dreams I'd had as a boy came back. I just had to build something permanent and lasting that would be my own." He paused. "I went to Kelmesh," he said. He turned his head to look at Jason. "You've heard of Kelmesh?" Jason nodded. "A good world," said Kerl, his voice thoughtful as if he was halftalking to himself. "A fine world. Sweet water and clean air and all the natural resources. Nothing but little harmless life-forms as far as we could see. Everything was beautiful. I looked at Kelmesh and I told myself that here was where I would make my mark and finish my days. Someday Kelmesh would have schools where history was taught. And near the beginning of that history would be the name of Kerl Potter." He sighed, a thin husk of a sound. "I went to work," he said. "People were pouring into Kelmesh in those first couple of years after the planet was cleared and opened up. I bought land. I bought into the new towns and started things -- an ore processing plant here, a tool factory there. I backed prospecting expeditions, and news services and everything else that I had the time or finances for." He looked down at his big hands in his lap with something like sati-sf action. "I got a lot done." "I suppose you made money," said Jason, thoughtlessly. "Oh, I made it, all right," said Kerl. "But I ploughed it back in, every cent of it, as fast as I got my hands on it. It was history I was really after. And I made it, too, until the hordes came." "Locusts, weren't they?" asked Jason, his eyes on the ground as he guided the little car through a small scattered forest of huge boulders. "No," said Kerl, "they just resembled them in their life habits. Like the seven year (is it seven buried as much as ten feet underground. Every forty years they worked their way to the surface as worms and came out as little, hopping creatures as big as a small frog. Then they grew. They swelled up to the size of a grown sheep and Kelmesh and devoured everything." His voice stopped on a flat note. "Everything," he repeated. Jason had the good sense to keep his mouth shut. After a little bit, Kerl went on again. "The colonists ran," he said. "God, I didn't blame them. Homes, lands, the grass, the trees, everything up to and including the clothing they wore was meat for the hordes. But I hated them for it. I stood on the spaceport landing stage with a silicoid jumper over what was left of my clothing and a thermite gun in my hand and cursed the last ship out of sight." "You didn't leave?" asked Jason, incredulously. "I thought everybody left." "Not I," said Kerl. "And not some others. It took us about two weeks to find each other for we were scattered all over the planet. But at the end of that time there were sixty of us gathered together in what was left of Kelmesh's governing city hall. Sixty-odd lousy, dirty, hungry men, with just one thought in common : that the hordes might chew the planet to the bone this time around, but the next generation wasn't going to live to boast about it." The fierce note on which Kerl ended rang through the little car. He stopped, as if abashed by it, and then went on in a mild voice. "They live for five years, you know," he said, "and lay their eggs at six week intervals all during that time. They don't all lay at once, either. A bunch go off somewhere by themselves and bury themselves alive. The body of the parent is food for the grubs when they hatch." Jason shivered. "Well, our first plan was to take to the air and track down a group that was about to lay and incinerate it. The first few months we tried it. Then we woke up to the fact that the Job was too big and started just tracking them down and marking the laying areas. When the hordes began to split up and the individuals began to spread all over the place, we finally yelled for help. By that time we were down to about eighteen men." Jason glanced sideways at him in surprise. Kerl caught the look. "Lack of food," he explained. "Long hours in the air. Men would go asleep at the controls and crash. On foot you couldn't count on lasting very long. A human being's organic, and anything organic suited their appetites. "We messaged our story out to the nearest Message Relay Station. Three months later a spruce Frontier Cruiser dropped down on our spaceport. I was there to meet it with two other men. A neatly tailored little commandant came down the landing ramp and looked me over. " 'Where is everybody?' he asked." " 'Dead,' I said." "He looked at me as if I was pulling some kind of joke on him." " 'Well, come on inside,' he said. 'We'll fix you up with some food and clothes.' " 'The hell with food and clothes,' I said. 'Give us thermite recharges for the guns.' "He peered at me. " 'You're out of your head, planter,' he said. And I took a swing at him and woke up in the ship's hospital two days later. "Well, they wanted to send us back to civilization, but none of the three of us would go. So we compromised all around by havingus sign on as Frontier Special TroojK. Then the war began. "It wasn't what Sector Headquarters ten light years away had thought it would be. It wasn't even what I thought it would be. It was worse. The whole thing tied in with the evolution process of these critters. They had no natural enemies, so they weeded each other out on a survival of the fittest basis. Within a few months after they came out of the ground -- inside half a year at the latest -- they'd cleaned up everything else worth eating. That meant the only source of food was -- each other. "Sounds good, doe.sn't it?" Kerl smiled briefly at Jason, "Sounds as if they were helping us along in our extermination program? But it turned out that this process had bred some intelligence into thern and with that intelligence, the ability to learn -- fast. "They had no use for brains when the whole planet was one big dinner table. But when the numbers began to thin out -- when they of them -- intelligence began to show up. "First, they took to cooperating. Each little group began to show signs of internal organization. Then the groups began to work together, and we woke up to the fact that the critters were fighting back; what had started out as a fumigating project had turned into a war." Kerl broke off suddenly to stare intently out the transparent front of the car. The seconds lengthened into minutes, and finally Jason spoke. "Whatis it?" he demanded. "Potter sign, I think," said Kerl. "A campsite about five hundred yards ahead. Drive on up to the foot of that big rock and halt the detachment." T he sign was Potter sign. Kerl toured the area of the camp, like a hunting animal, running the cold ashes from the cooking fires through his fingers, and raking through the discarded litter around them. His investigation kept him occupied until noon, so the midday meal was eaten where they stood. They pushed on after lunch, covering another fifty miles before night brought them to a stop. The going was slower now, for Kerl was forced to watch the ground and the rocky walls closely to make sure that they were staying on the Potter trail and not drifting off on the track of some other clan that might have crossed or paralleled the same route. Consequently, there was no further chance for conversation between him and Jason and it was not until , that evening that Jason had an opportunity to draw him aside. They sat down in their car and closed the top -- that being the only meager means to privacy the situation afforded. "How much farther before we catch up with them?" asked Jason. "Not far," replied Kerl. His voice seemed to have grown old and weary since the morning. "Say thirty miles. We should catch up with them tomorrow afternoon." "Good," said Jason, They sat in silence for a little while, each occupied by his own thoughts. Finally Jason broke the pause. "You were telling me about Keh mesh earlier today -- " "Oh -- yes," said Kerl, abruptly, like someone whose thoughts are suddenly recalled from a great distance. "I was. Well -- right now I'm a little tired. If you don't mind -- " "Of course," replied Jason promptly. He threw back the lid of the car and stepped out. "Good night." "Good night," said Kerl, from the interior shadows of the car. Jason did not feel like sleeping. He had always been a straightforward man, as honest with himself as nature permitted. He believed thoroughly in the solid universe that he knew. It contained space and the human race, whose manifest destiny it was to occupy space. Occasionally, among the teeming hordes of mankind emerged those who perceived this destiny. These went out and dedicated themselves to it. The rest lived and bred in happy ignorance. To them, no blame, but no glory. But among the dedicated -- By no possible stretch of the imagination could Jason imagine a man who saw the light, followed it, then turned his back on it, and went again to dwell in darkness. What flaw in the ideal of man's manifest destiny could prompt such an action? The thought was very disturbing to Jason. After all, this was the ideal he was probably going to get himself killed for -- unless good luck and skill preserved him. Jason could no longer write Kerl off as a man basically lacking in courage and the virtues that the frontier demands. Jason had read and heard enough about Kelmesh to recognize that the other man was speaking the truth. Had Kerl's nerve finally broken under those conditions? Jason could not believe it. There was nothing broken about the big, dark man. What then? Pacing the narrow circle of the camp, Jason looked up at the stars and did not know the answer. But he would find out tomorrow, before Kerl parted company with them for good -- he made himself that promise. M orning came bright and sudden. A little of the sparse rain that fell upon these mountains had fallen during the night, and the rocks around them were dark and had a damp smell that began to fade quickly as a thirsty sun licked up the moisture through the dry air. Camp was struck, and the circle of cars took up the trail again in customary file. For four hours, the going was the same as it had been the day before, the detachment crawling along slowly, with Kerl in the lead car tensely scrutinizing the ground for sign. They crossed out of the valley and into another that ran parallel for some twenty miles. This at a point where the mountains split three ways, Kerl called a halt. He got down from the lead car and began to examine the little open area where the four valleys came together. For some time he combed the area minutely, eyes bent on the rock at his feet; long arms dangling loosely from hunched shoulders, so that he looked almost more ape than human from a distance. Finally, he returned to the car where Jason waited. "There," he said, pointing to the rightmost of the three new valleys as he climbed into the car. "And about thirty miles off. I know where they're headed, now." Jason looked at him; then closed the open top of the car and gave the order to move out over the intercom. They rolled ahead between the rocky walls that had been steadily about them since the beginning. In his bucket seat in the car, Kerl leaned back and sighed, rubbing one big, square-fingered hand across his eyes. "A strain, that tracking, I suppose," said Jason. Kerl turned to look at him. He managed a tired grin. 'Tm out of practise," he replied. "Too much being done for me by gadgets has spoiled the senses." His eyes had wandered off to look at the mountains. Now he brought them back again to Jason. "You've done a good job for me," he said. "I'm grateful." "My duty -- " said Jason, with a little deprecating shrug. He halfturned to look at the other man. "Can I ask you a question?" he said. "Go ahead," Kerl told him. The strict Kilburnian ethics of Jason's upbringing fought a momentary, short and silent battle with his curiosity and lost. "Why are you going back?" he asked. Jason could see the sharp barb of his question strike home. Kerl did not answer. And, as the seconds slipped past and were lost in silence, he began to think that he had, indeed, stepped beyond the bounds of all propriety and right. And, then, just as he was about to apologize, words did come from the other man. "You asked me to tell you about the rest of what happened to me on Kelmesh," said Kerb "I -- yes," replied Jason. "Yes, I did." "I'll tell you now," said Kerb "You've heard what it was like, no doubt." "I had a cousin who came in on the tail end of it." said Jason. "I read some letters from him." "A lot of men died," Kerl spoke softly, "more men than I could ever have imagined dying in one place at one time. That's why I earned rank so quickly. They discharged me as an Officer Two, but I was acting Commandant for the last six months." "You know," Jason said, "I have trouble understanding how creatures like that, even with a little intelligence, could stand up to our war equipment so long, and cause such trouble." Kerl chuckled a little bitterly, "Sector Headquarters had trouble understanding it, too. But then, they weren't on the planet." Jason blinked at such open criticism of the Frontier's military leadership. Kerl went on: "It was easy enough to understand when it was under your nose. There were two reasons. One was that we were not fighting a war, we were conducting an extermination project, in which all of those critters had to be killed off. The second was that we couldn't defend, we had to attack. Impose those conditions on men fighting in what amounted to a wasteland, and what did you have? "You had small patrol action and nothing but small patrol action. There was so much ground to be covered and so many of the things to be killed. You called in your junior officers and lined them up in front of a map and drew out their routes for them. Then out they went to make their patrols on foot -- on foot, mind you, because the critters buried themselves in the ground during the daytime and even in a two man car you'd drive right over them. "They'd take off -- " Kerbs eyes had grown bleak and distant, seeing again the bitter plains of his memories. " -- extended in a skirmish line, looking for spots where the earth was loose. And when they found one, they'd dig it out and incinerate it, unless it woke up first and got away before the thermite charges could cripple it enough to make escape impossible. "When night came the men would bivouak arid dig in, with their guns charged and portable searchlights illuminating the ground all around them. And they'd try to sleep -- but the night would be one long battle. "Nothing kept the critters away. The searchlights even attracted them -- but what could you do? The men needed light to shoot by, and some warning when they came. For they came at top speed. They must have been crazy mad with hunger, during this period when there was nothing for them to live on but each other and us. One would spot the light and come up quietly, then suddenly charge in as fast as it could. And they could move fast. The idea seemed to be to pick up a man and carry him off into the darkness. "Sometimes, two or three would work together and we'd have them charging at once. The horrible thing was, there was a sort of instinct in them that made them try to continue eating even when they were dying. If they grabbed a man and couldn't make it out of the circle, they still tried to make a meal of him, even while being burned by the gun charges. "Their notion of fighting was just to start eating their enemy. In fact, fighting and feeding was the same thing. In the beginning the losses from night attacks were fantastically high. But after a while we began to keep them down to a minimum. The men kept their lives, but they lost their nerve -- " This was so close to what Jason had been thinking about Kerl himself the night before, that the young officer started involuntarily. Kerl, however, went on without noticing. " -- and cracked. And the commonest form of cracking was to blow up some night when the patrol was dug in, to jump out of the hole you had dug and go running off into the darkness to hunt down the critters that were prowling out there. That waiting -- " Kerl shuddered, " -- it was bad. Sooner or later, the men would lose their selfpossession and go to meet them halfway." He turned to look at Jason. "They estimate around a hundred thousand men were lost that way." "A hundred thousand!" Even Jason's military-conditioned mind was shocked by the number. "But not all of them. Not -- "his tone was almost accusing, -- "not you." "No, not me," said Kerl. He sighed. "I Was the exception -- the freak. It bothered me, but I lasted through five long years of it. I even kept other men from cracking up as long as they were with me. Nothing particular I did -- just knowing I was around seemed to brace them." Jason stared at him. "But that was marvelous -- wasn't it?" he said. "I mean, they could study you and find out what was needed to keep other men from cracking up. You could turn yourself into Service Research and..." his voice faltered, died before a supposition so monstrous that it overwhelmed him. Finally he put it into words. "You aren't -- that isn't what you're running away from?" Kerl laughed. "Nothing so melodramatic," he said. "Research didn't even wait for the business to finish on Kelmesh before pulling me back to Earth. They tested me and worked me over and scratched their heads and finally came up with an answer. In plain words, what was happening was that the civilized man of today was many times as susceptible to the emotional strains of war as his remote ancestor. It was a matter of environment -- what the psychologists called having a 'wider mental horizon'." "But what are they going to do about it?" asked Jason. "There isn't too much they can do," said Kerl soberly. "There are two obvious solutions. One is to return to the environment of eighteenth -- nineteenth century Earth, which is impossible. The other is to freeze the present environment long enough for the human race to mature up to it. Which is unpalatable and which people won't stand for." "Of course not!" cried Jason. "Why, that'd be ridiculous! It -- it'd be fantastic. To hold up our proper and necessary expansion for a little problem like that. The human race solves problems -- it doesn't knuckle under to them." A shadow passed across Kerl's face for an instant, saddening it. "You're right," he said. "The race does." "There must be some practical steps they can take," continued Jason. "Some conditioning process, or such." Kerl shrugged. "Some factors seem to help a little," he said. "You may have wondered why you've been held in Class C duty so long when it's usual to promote to Class A Frontier posts fairly quickly." "They have been slow with me," frowned Jason. "And with a lot of others in your class," said Kerl. "That's one of the little things that seems to help some -- a longer tour of garrison work." "Look here!" said Jason. "I'm not liable to crack up. My mental health is excellent." "A fresh water fish," replied Kerl, "can be in fine shape. But put him in salt water and he sickens and dies." "But this is all backward!" exploded Jason. "You're supposed to have come through on Kelmesh. To you that environment should have been much more of a shock than to a man like me -- I take new and different worlds for granted. I grew up with an open mind. Why, if what you say is true, then these mountain people of yours -- " He broke off abruptly, a realization taking startling form in his mind. In the little silence that followed, Kerl's voice answered him. "It is the opposite from what you might expect," he said. "Early in the beginnings of psychology, men began to notice that some primitive peoples were amazingly well adjusted. Not all primitive peoples, of course. The majority ran the scale from bad to worse. But a few stood out." "But you can't scrap civilization!" cried Jason, desperately. "I don't know," answered Kerl. "Can't you? I can't. You can't. No government or controlling power can -- or wants to. Maybe we won't have to. But when Research dug into the matter they came up with some funny answers. For instance -- the individual has a survival instinct. They've known that for a long time. Now they think the race has one, too." "Of course," said Jason. "Survival of the fittest -- " "No," said Kerl. "Think of the race as a single individual with instincts. And one of the instincts is not to put all his eggs in one basket." Jason merely looked puzzled. Again, that shadow crossed Kerl's face, shading his eyes with an obscure pain. "Never at any time," Kerl said, "have all the people been all alike. Some were more one way than another. Geographical accident, they used to think -- and of course it was, largely. But there's a real instinctive tendency for groups to be different, even as there is for the individual to be different -- and for the same reason, survival. It wouldn't be good for them all to be alike. Then, some new thing that could wipe out one, could wipe out all." "Do you mean to tell me," said Jason, spacing the words slowly, and, he thought, calmly, "that the ever it is we have of people on all the civilized worlds, are an evolutionary dead end; that you and these mountaineers squatting on their rocks represent the future of the race?" "No," Kerl shook his head, "not the future. A possible future. A remotely possible future. One of nature's extra strings to its bow. Imagine civilization breaking down. Would that make any difference to my people here? Not a bit. They're completely self-supporting. They don't need and don't want the rest of you. They might pull humanity back up out the mud again." Kerl's words died in the car. For what seemed a long while, Jason sat thinking. Finally, he turned to Kerl. "But you think your people will make the future," he said. It was an accusation. "That's why you've come back." Kerl's dark face was suddenly ravaged with sorrow. "No," he said. "No. I came back for an entirely different reason." Jason waited. "Research turned me inside out," said Kerl, painfully. "When they were through with me, I knew myself -- too well. I knew myself inside and out. And I realized -- " his voice faltered, then picked up with a new strength " -- that I was different. From the time when that difference came home to me, living in civilization became living among strangers. There was a barrier there I could not cross because it was inside me and now I knew it was there." He stopped. "I had no choice," he said suddenly. "I had to go home." He let out his breath and looked down at his hands, big and dark, folded in his lap. "I -- am sorry," said Jason, stiffly. "I beg your pardon." "That's all right," said Kerl, "It's almost over now." He raised his eyes from his lap and looked out ahead. "You can stop anyplace along here. We don't want to drive up to the camp. We'll stop a bit short and let them find us." "All right," said Jason. He switched on the intercom and gave the necessary orders. The cars circled in the light of the afternoon sun, halted, men got out, and camp was made. A bout an hour before twilight, the Potter clan put in its appearance. One moment, the valley was empty beyond the camp and then -- it seemed, almost without transition -- a small host of rough-clad figures had sprung into view, on the valley floor and down the rocky slopes some two hundred yards from the circle of cars. They stood silent, waiting. Two groups with centuries of apparent difference between them. Silent, they stood and watched. Jason went to get Kerl and found him sitting in their car, chin on hand, his eyes absent and thoughtful. "Well, they're here," said Jason. Kerl nodded. "I know," he answered. "They've come right out in the open," continued Jason. "Almost as if they knew you were with us." "I imagine they do," said Kerl. "Other tribes will have seen me with you and pas.sed the word along." He got heavily to his feet and stepped out of the car. Beyond the cars were the troopers. Followed by Jason, Kerl walked to an open space where a number of the men of the tribe stood waiting. Kerl turned and looked at the troopers. "Goodby," he said. "Thanks." The men murmured self-consciously. Kerl turned again and started off, stepping surely down the rugged path. Jason followed, without quite knowing why. Where the rough going ceased and the valley began to broaden out, Kerl stopped again and turned to Jason as the younger man came up level with him. They were far enough from the troopers now so that low voices would not carry their words back. "Goodby," said Kerl. "Goodby," Jason replied. Kerl put out his hand and Jason took it. They shook briefly, but Kerl held on to Jason's hand for a minute before releasing it. "Don't -- " he began earnestly, but the words seemed to stick in his throat. "Yes?" said Jason. Kerl's face was twisted as if with a mighty inner effort. "Don't be afraid of the future," he said, tightly. "Keep going. Keep looking. There's nothing so w'onderful as that." Jason stared at him. "You say that?" he could not keep the incredulity out of his voice. He nodded toward the waiting mountaineers. "But you're going back!" "Yes," whispered Kerl. "I told you. I have no choice." Jason swallowed. "Come back with us," he said. "I didn't know. But if it's our future you want, not theirs, come back. You can if you want to." "I can't." "Why not?" cried Jason. "It's all a matter of what you want. I thought you wanted this." "This?" echoed Kerl, looking bleakly about him at the mountains. "This?" His face worked. "God, no!" he cried. "The only thing I ever wanted was Kelmesh!" He turned, tearing himself away from Jason and facing towards the clansmen. Pebbles rattled and rolled under his uncaring feet as he lurched away. Walking like a blind man, he went down the valley.    The universe is vast and men but tiny specks on an insignificant planet. But the minute we realize our minuteness, our impotence in the face of cosmic forces, the more astonishing becomes what human beings have achieved. -- Bertrand Russell The rules of a duel between gentlemen are quite different from the rules of war between nations. Is it because gentlemen do not fight wars, or is it that men in war cease to be gentlemen? T he bullet slapped rotted ridges -- they were his insurance on leaves and dirt into Gram this mile-wide island high above Treb's eyes. He wormed backward Earth. to the bole of a small tree. Something thudded into the tree "Missed!" he shouted. He used roots behind him. He hugged the English, the second tongue of them ground, body flattened. His breath both. "Throw away your carbine eased raggedly outward, and and use rocks." caught. The waiting -- the seconds "You tasted it anyhow," Harl that became hours! If the grenade Neilson's shrill young voice cried, rolled after him, down the slope "How was the sample?" into his shelter, he was finished. "That leaves you two carThere was nothing he could do. tridges," taunted Treb. "Or is it His palms oozed sweat... only one?" The grenade exploded. It was like The sixth sense that had brought a fist slammed against his skull. He him safely through two of these was numbed for a long instant, bloody war duels here in space Then he checked, made him fling his body to the left. Unharmed. The depression had He rolled over once and lay hudsaved his neck this time. He wanted died in a shallow depression. He to shout at Neilson, tell him he was knew all the tiny hollows and down to a lone grenade, but that was poor strategy. Now he must withdraw, make Neilson think him injured or dead, and trap him in turn. They were the last of the belligarents here within Earth Satellite. For two months, since what would be May on Earth, they had carried on this mad duel. Of the other eighteen who had started the war in November of the preceding year, only four had survived their wounds. The United Nations' supervisory seconds had transported them to their homes in Andilia and in Baryt... Treb wormed his way as noiselessly as possible into the undergrowth, sprawling at last in the shelter of an earthen mound thirty feet from the grenade's raw splash. He waited -- and thought. Memories can be unpleasant. He could see his comrades of the three battles as they had fallen, wounded or gray with death. Too many of them had he helped bury. He remembered the treasured photos. The draining wound in his right forearm throbbed... The enemy dead too. He had killed several of them -- more than his share, he thought savagely. They too were young despite the ragged beards some of them cultivated. Treb felt like an old man. And he was old. He was twenty-nine. He had a son also named Gram, a boy of five, and little Alse, who was two. Flad little Alse's mother lived he would never have volunteered for this third United Nations' war duel. He would have been with her in the mountain valley of Krekar working hard, and gradually erasing those other ugly episodes here on Earth Satellite One... Minutes crawled by, lumped together into hours. Birds sang in the trees so laboriously maintained here in the satellite's disk-shaped heart. And, a hundred feet overhead, where the true deck of the manmade island in space began, other birds nested in the girders. An ant crawled over Treb's earthstained hand and passed under his outstretched carbine's barrel. There was a movement in the clustering trees off to his right. Neilson had circled and was coming in from an opposite angle. Treb thumbed off the safety and waited. An earth-colored helmet, with a trace of long pale hair around its rim, came slowly into view. Could be a dummy, Neilson was clever at rigging them to draw fire. And he had exactly two cartridges. After that it would be his three grenades, his two-foot needle-knife, that doubled as a bayonet, and the steel bow he had contrived from a strip of spring steel. He held his fire. The trees made grenade lobbing a touchy business. And his bow was back in one of the dozens of foxholes he had spotted in both the inner and outer rings of trees. In the fantasy stories of adventure in space that he enjoyed reading, the hero could always whip up a weird paralysis ray, a deadly, invisible robot bullet, or an intelligent gaseous ally from the void would appear. And out of scrap glass, metal and his shoestrings he could contrive a solar-powered shell that stopped any missile, deadlier than a marshmallow, cold. In actual life he was finding it difficult enough to contrive a primitive sort of bow, a knife-lashed spear, and snares for the increasingly wary rabbits. Lack of sleep and lack of food supplies were sapping his lanky body of the whiplash swiftness and wiry strength it once possessed. Nor was the week-old wound any aid to his dulled wits... The helmet advanced; he could almost see the twig-stuffed gray shirt's pockets, and he let his nostrils expand as he sucked in a steadying breath. Now, a yard behind the fake Andilian, he could see the moving shoulders and skull of Harl Neilson -- or so his bloodshot eyes told him. He squeezed the trigger. There was a subdued yip, and then a derisive jeer. Missed again -- or had he? "Sour rocketing, Grampaw," Neilson laughed. "Try again. And then I'm coming after you." Only Neilson wouldn't. Unless he'd miscalculated  the number of grenades, he wouldn't come charging at Treb. And he couldn't be sure of the number of cartridges Treb possessed. He was just talking to keep his nerve up. Especially if he was wounded now. That sudden yip... ficial night as artificial as the central ten-acre pool of water, the ring of flowering green trees and grasses, and the final outer ring of forest trees. It was here that the two thousand UN employees and soldiers on Earth Satellite One normally took their recreation periods. Only the supervised war-duels, that since # had been the only blood-letting permitted between nations, could long keep a Terran from visiting the green meadows and trees of this lowest of the three levels... "I'd give half that quarter million," Neilson groaned, across the darkness, "for a cigarette." "You mean," corrected Gram Treb, "half your ten thousand." "It's the winner's grant or nothing, Treb. I promised Jane I'd hand it to her. Then we'll marry." "But not if you are the loser?" "I wouldn't -- she wouldn't -- it's impossible to think of asking her to share poverty and disgrace." "I'd hardly say that. We lost our first war here on the Satellite. Baryt was obligated to cede a thousand square miles to Tarrance. Most of my ten thousand paid off my family's debts. "Yet I married. I married Nal who had nursed me back to health. And we were happy. Until the second war with Duristan. I wanted money for her -- for the children -- for my impoverished valley." Treb broke off. He backed away several feet and shifted noiselessly to a new position. Every night, and sometimes in the artificial sunlight, they talked together. But they never forgot that they were sworn foes. "So you won it didn't you?" From his voice Neilson had shifted closer and to the left. "Sure. And I wish I were as poor as before. For Nal was kicked to death -- by the horse I should have been using -- while I fought here." Neilson made a sympathetic sound. Treb felt his lips twitch into a thin crooked line. This is what it meant to be human. To feel sorrow for another man's misfortunes -- and then kill him! Sure, Neilson was a good sort. Only twenty-four and in love with a girl, a woman really, widow of a dead lunar explorer. And he was a clean-living sort, nothing dishonorable or hateful about him. They even honored the same God. But tomorrow, or the next day, or a month from now, he would kill or wound Neilson. Unless, as might well happen, Neilson got to him first. He pushed aside a thought that came more and more often of late. Why not surrender, or let Neilson capture him? He did not consider suicide -- little Gram and Alse needed him -- although he had not been thinking of them when he signed for this ugly miniature battle in space. His wife's death had been too vivid yet. But, why not surrender? He had enough money. The valley people could struggle along without the machines and the dam he had hoped to grant them with victory. And Baryt could lose the island of Daafa to Andilia without crippling herself. The three hundred and fifty inhabitants could be transferred to the mainland. Treb laughed silently, a laugh that cut off with a twinge of drawing ugly pain from his wounded forearm. He knew that he could no more surrender without a fight than he could command his breathing to stop forever. He was a man, and men cannot give up dishonorably... "Fd like to see those two kids sometime, if you're still around, Treb." Neilson had moved again. His voice was lower but he was nearer. "Stop around anytime, Harl." Treb moved a few feet deeper into a thicket. "We'll show you what real Baryt hospitality is." "That's a promise, Treb." you had to kill. Or you volunteered to kill. But you didn't have to like it. All these little wars under UN supervision were needless -- arbitration would serve as well. But the people, the leaders -- someone -- wanted blood. So ten or twelve or fifteen citizens of one nation fought an equal number of the other state's sons. Doubtless it was an improvement over the mass bombings of innocent city dwellers, and the horror of atomic dusts and sprays. No overwhelming army could sweep, unchecked, over a helpless neighbor. It was fairer, too, for those involved. Equal numbers of men, guns, supplies. Wealth if your side won, and a fair sum if you lost. The United Nations saw to that. After all the avenues to peaceful settlement had been explored and turned down they finally permitted bloodshed. Much against their better judgement, perhaps. So he could destroy likeable young Andilians like Neilson. "Why don't you send up a rocket?" Neilson kidded, his voice coming from a changed direction again. "So I can see you." "Anything to oblige." Neilson was circling out around, as though to drive him into a trap or trick him. They were getting back to the primitive now. Soon it would be knives, spears, and deadfalls. "Come on over and I'll show you Jane's picture, Treb," invited Neilson. He laughed hoarsely. "If we weren't where we are, I'd mean that." "I know. I feel that way myself sometimes. We've been here alone too long. Hate hasn't lasted." "Why aren't you a wrongo, Treb?" The young voice was cracked and , savage. "Why'd you have to tell me about -- Gram and Alse?" Treb was backing away again, cautiously. He scented a trap. No doubt Neilson's words were sincere, at the moment, but in a second's time he could change into a coldblooded executioner. He knew. He had seen the gentlest of men suddenly turn killer... And then his foot struck a yielding branch and his aroused suspicion sent him lunging forward. A heavy something fell with a sickening thud, brushing as it struck, the sole of his distintegrating shoe. A cleverly rigged deadfall of small trees and rock, doubtless. "You're slipping, Harl," he shouted. But he could feel the sudden sweat damping his palms, and the muscles twitched unsteadily in his arms and across his stomach. a mile away, in a foxhole less than sixty yards from the massive outer perimeter of the arena. Two of his snares had yielded a rabbit each, and so he was supplied for several days. The foxhole had two entrances, both well-concealed, and he had rigged elaborate warning devices should the vicinity be approached. So he was sleeping. His dreams were unpleasant. In his latest dream an extremely shapely and smiling young woman with dark hair was heaving a grenade into a pit where he lay bound and helpless. The grenade swelled until it became a space ship heading directly toward the frail scout craft he piloted... And a tiny blob of dislodged mud from the dugout spatted his face. He sat up. Another day to hunt or be hunted. Or to lie here and try to rest and make plans. There was slight possibility that Neilson could find him here. He gnawed at the scantly-fleshed ribs of the first rabbit, savoring the raw meaty smell and flavor. Hunger was his salt. Now that they had lost contact with one another it might require several days to find Neilson. A wooded platter, a smile in diameter, can afford many hiding places for one creature hiding from another hunting beast. It was time to set some of the traps he had been contriving. There were the two nooses, attached to bent-down triggered young trees that could not be set until darkness fell again. The net, too, would need darkness to conceal the four rough pulleys, and the rocks that a tug on his rope would spill. But the almost invisible nylon cords, set at ankle height across the paths, and the ugly little pits with their sharpened stakes set three feet below, could trip up a man and cripple him. He must put out several of those. He had no wish to kill Neilson. If he could capture him, very good. He could go back to Andilia and perhaps his Jane would be glad to take him. If she did not -- it was worth knowing how little she really cared, was it not? So he would try to trap the younger man and save his life. It would be difficult. The other man had grenades, a carbine and a keen needle-knife. Perhaps, before the end, he would be forced to kill after all. But regretfully. Treb dumped the last of the tsaftha antibiotic into his wound and lay back for a few more hours of rest before going out to prepare the traps. His head was not clear. And his eyes drew together from exhaustion... Another night and another day, and it was night again. His traps were set and ready. All through the day he had prowled the trees, watching for some sign of Neilson. He found he was muttering to himself, hungry for the sound of spoken words. It was nervous work. His muscles were jumping in faint spastic explosions. Neilson could have been lying in ambush in any of a hundred leafy coverts, resting there and waiting... He had covered less than two miles of inching, crawling paths, his eyes ever alert for deadfalls, pits and spear-traps that might flash across the way to impale him. And he had caught no sight of Neilson. Now it was night again. Time to check on his traps. The rabbit traps as well as the human traps. He was approaching the net. And the awareness that this furtive game of hide-and-seek might go on for weeks oppressed him. He might lie here close by the net for days without sight of Neilson. They were too evenly matched -- and Neilson was younger. It was Neilson's youth against his experience. He found the thin rope of knotted nylon and plastic scraps that led to the four balanced rocks. One stout yank and the net would jerk upward four feet and tighten around its victim. But, in the dim starlight from the small globes spotting the Satellite's ceiling, the path was an indistinct blur. A moving body's exact position... And at fifty feet... He saw Neilson -- it could only be Neilson. Moving on hands and knees, he was, keeping low and to the side of the little-used trail -- but within the width of the hand-patched net. And he moved slowly, probing before him with a stick or his needle-knife; Treb could not tell which. Another two feet and he could trip the net. Neilson would be captured, alive, and the stalemate ended. Now! The net flung into the air, snapped tight about Neilson's thrashing body! He heard the pop of parting strands as Neilson slashed with his knife. And then he swung the butt of his carbine, twice, against the trapped man's skull. Neilson went limp. It was finished. He could take his prisoner to the lock, summon the UN guards, and go home to the Krekar Hills. And an end to all blood-letting for him. He set about binding tight the arms and legs of Neilson, and had barely completed his task when the prisoner groaned and struggled. "So this is it, Treb?" "Yes." "You win again. And I -- I lose everything." "So?" Treb touched his pocket torch to a heap of shredded dry twigs. "What have you lost? Your health, your life? And will not the woman forget all else and love you?" "Hah! She will laugh at me if I come near her. Defeated, and with a paltry ten thousand to offer. Better that I died than this." "Perhaps you do not -- know this woman. Hark If she is good, she will come to you." The growing firelight was on Neilson's bearded face. And beneath his eyes something glistened and beaded. He laughed bitterly. "She's not good, Treb, understand that. She's evil and moneyhungry, and ambitious. But she is beautiful and I love her. I'd sell my soul and my body to possess her. "That's why I volunteered. With the winners' grant I would have money. Prestige. Honor. There would be a thousand new opportunities for a career. And Jane could not refuse me then." "It is wrong, Harl Neilson, to so worship a woman. Like alcohol or Venerian fire pollen -- it is unnatural." "I know. I have tried to forget, to put her memory aside. But it is like a disease. An incurable disease. I must have Jane." Treb threw more wood on the little fire and checked over the lashings about Neilson's body. "I am going to look at my rabbit snares," he said, "and to spring the other traps. We will eat and sleep, and in the morning try to shave and look decent before going to the locks." Neilson let his head sag between his shoulders, and said nothing. He was leaning against a tree, his arms lashed behind him and to it. "There is one more thing, Harl, that I wish to discuss. It is about the Paul Hubble Foundation Award. Think about it." Treb moved off into the darkness. T he sunlight from the overhead "suns" of the Satellite revealed a greatly changed Treb. He was shaved, his hair combed and hacked off above his ears, and he was stitching the last rough patch on his dark green trouser leg. Now he donned the trousers and went over to the bound Andilian. He cut the ropes, his carbine ready. "Get down to the lake," he ordered. "You'll find a razor, soap and an old shirt to dry yourself with." Harl Neilson was chunky and fair-haired, with a healthy looking red-brown skin. His eyes were wide and darkly blue. Now the wide mouth under his shapeless nose twisted into a faint grin. "I'll try to get away," he warned. "Aren't you afraid of that?" "I have all the guns, grenades and needle-knives, Harl. I'll shoot you if you attempt escape, of course, but I hope you'll listen to what I propose first." Neilson slowly stripped off his ragged tunic and trousers. There was the scar of a recent bullet's path across his right shoulder blade. It was crusted with blackened blood. "I thought I heard you two days back, Harl," said Treb. "Just a scratch." Neilson took up the soap and waded into the nearby lake. "Start talking, Treb." "I told you to think about Paul Hubble's Award, Harl. He's the American industrialist who opposed violence in settling any issue." "Sure. Heard about him in the he sunk in his worthless Peace Foundation. What about it?" "Hear me out. Did you like what we just went through? Your friends and comrades dying -- my friends dead and wounded? And all to settle some territorial dispute or to wipe out some imagined slur. "Would you like to prevent your kid, or mine, from having to face this again?" "Stop sounding off, Treb, and say something." Neilson scrubbed vigorously. "Of course I would -- if I ever had a kid, I mean." "We could help, Harl. By calling off the duel and making peace right here. Of course there might be new balloting -- even another battle between our countries. But we would crack the theory that victory means more than humanity." Neilson snorted. He splashed water into his eyes and over his soapy beard and hair. "And go home penniless? To have every friend and neighbor avoid us? What's eating you? You won. You'll get the quarter of a "I want you to share equally. I want our two countries to know that friendship means more than glory." "I don't get it. If neither side wins we get nothing." "You forget about the Hubble Award. Two hundred thousand to each member of both sides, or their survivors, if they declare an armistice." "I had forgotten. You'd give up fifty thousand so I could get the same two hundred thousand! You're a prince, Treb. "But I couldn't do it. Jane would turn against me. The radio, the newswires, television and the magazines would crucify me -- both of us." "We'd ride it out. None of the participants in the twenty-two duels here in Satellite has had the courage to admit he hates war. In years to come our stand would be honored." "It means losing Jane. I can't do it." "You've lost her anyway, Harl, if she's the way you say. How about your three wounded buddies: Wasson, Clark, and Thomason? Badly cut up aren't they? Clark blind. Wasson with no arms. "Couldn't they use the two hundred thousand?" Neilson was coming ashore. A sudden resolve hardened his fade, and his blue eyes were dark and angry. His jaw jutted through the sandy fairness of his draggled beard. Treb felt his vitals knot at what he sensed in Neilson's expression. He'd gambled on the essential fairness and sympathy of the Andilian's character. But now... "I'll do it," Neilson said tonelessly. "I hope you'll never regret what you are doing, Harl." "Aw, lock valves!" snarled Neilson. "Get ready to go while I finish shaving." So that was the way it was to be. Treb turned wearily away. He went back through the screen of flowering shrubs and trees to where the coals of their fire turned gray. The grenades and the three cartridges, his own and Neilson's, he buried in a hasty hole under a tree's sprawled roots. Afterward he tamped sod back into place and spread leaves. His needle-knife he laid on the turf. From his pocket he took a long strip of cloth and some of the tough nylon cords from the net. Then he let his trousers drop about his ankles and set about anchoring the needle-knife securely to his upper leg. When he had finished the keen blade projected a foot below his knee-cap. And around it, carefully, he wound some of the cloth. He donned his battered trousers again. The concealed knife was well hidden, although it did impede the freedom of his stride. Then he went down to rejoin Neilson. Neilson was just finishing hacking at his hair with the short-bladed safety razor. He scowled at Treb, his eyes on the carbine that the man from Baryt yet carried. "Not taking any chances, eh, Treb?" "Just in case you change your mind, Harl." "My friend -- my very dear friend -- Gram Treb!" Neilson laughed. "What trust -- what a faith in human nature!" "Yes, Harl. Your friend." They left the lake behind, Neilson in advance. Directly ahead, beyond the outer ring of trees, the locks to the upper levels waited. They had less than a third of a mile to traverse. The rusting shattered debris of a machine gun, with a spilled clutter of empty shell cases, lay just off the trail. "Harok Dann died here," said Treb. Neilson did not turn. "The big man, Manross, was killed by Dann's fire even as he threw the grenade," he added. Treb was watching the broadshouldered figure ahead. "Shut it off, Treb, will you?" Neilson shouted, turning. "Isn't it tough enough without you yap-yapping all the way?" Treb's lips thinned. The knife chafed his leg. Already he was limping slightly. But they had covered more Aan half the distance. Once they contacted the UN guards and were through the locks he could relax... T he circular outer face of the lock was before them. And the button that summoned the guards jutted redly from a shoulderhigh recess. Neilson leaned against the lock, his narrowed eyes on Treb as he reached for the button. Treb jabbed. And he relaxed inwardly. Too late now for Neilson to attempt ov'erpowering him and claiming the victory. He had feared such an attempt -- with the lust for the woman, Jane Vanne, driving him, Neilson might have gone back on his word. It was tough going for the kid. But he wasn't losing anything worth keeping. And hundreds of fine young lads like him might be spared going through this ordeal in space. They'd... Neilson's fist caught him behind the ear. That split-second of inattendon was proving costly. Neilson clamped the carbine barrel, wrested it away from Treb. He raised it. Treb lifted his hands. "So now it's me at the controls," Neilson said, grinning. "Any reason why I should go through with your Hubble Award idea?" "The guards will be here in no more than a minute, Harl. Throw the gun away and we'll go through together." Neilson's eyes were shining. He was seeing the crowds waving crazy welcome as his space ship grounded. He was seeing the adulation of the boys, and the adoring glance of the dark-eyed girl named Jane. He was seeing the medals and the banquets and the bundles of money. "You were crazy, Treb," he said, "to ever trust me. In war promises mean nothing. Study your history." Treb squared his shoulders, his hands came down. "If that's the way it is," he said, and then, "coming at you, Neilson." Neilson flinched. It was the first time Treb had called him by his last name, perhaps that was the reason. Or it could have been the sight of an unarmed man walking directly into his carbine's ugly muzzle. He pressed trigger. The unloaded weapon was silent. Treb wrenched at the gun. Neilson kicked him in the crotch. The gun came free. He brought it down at Treb's head, but at the last second before impact Treb dodged. The barrel smacked into Treb's right shoulder and broke the collar bone. Treb came on, his left hand jabbing, and his right arm dangling. Neilson chopped at his face with the vertically held carbine, and tore a great chunk from his left cheek. And then Treb's knee came up. The shielded razor-sharp blade sliced through his trouser. He drove the ugly little dagger into Neilson's body. Neilson went down, squirming away from the sudden pain that tore at his vitals. The carbine went clattering. Treb knelt beside him; tried to stanch the warm gush of red life, and cursed, soundlessly, the ambition that is mankind's greatest boon -- and curse. He tore off the bloody knife. "You won't die, Neilson," he said gravely. "Not with the surgeon and the hospital here on Earth Satellite so near. You'll live to see Andilia again. "And about the invitation to visit us -- I'm sorry you rejected it like this. But the offer still stands. When I can call you Harl again, when you are a man, visit us." The lock behind them creaked and started to open.    Why does this magnificently applied science which saves work and makes life easier bring so little happiness? The simple answer runs : because we have not yet learned to make sensible use of it. -- Albert Einstein To define it rudely but not ineptly, research is the art of doing well with one dollar that which any bungler can do with two after a fashion. -- Wellington what Is Your Science I. Q. ? light, sound, atmosphere, bombs, planets and other items you run across all the time in science fiction. How well do you know them? Counting five for each correct answer, you should score #. Anything over # and you're a whizz. See page # for the answers. #. Mach number I is equal to the speed of sound at sea level, or miles per hour. #. What have klystron and rhagnetron in common? #. The star visible to the naked eye has a magnitude of plus #. #. The gravity on Mars is approximately what fraction of Earth gravity? #. On Earth, a falling object would have an acceleration of feet per second. #. What is the name of the companion of the double star Mizar? #. Electrons are to matter what are to light. #. What sort of an atmosphere does the moon Titan have? #. It takes the sun's light minutes to reach us here on Earth. #. What is the nitrogen content of the air we breathe? #. An artificial moonlet would have to travel at a speed of miles per hour to maintain a circular orbit around the Earth. #. When a planet crosses in front of the sun as seen from Earth, it is in #. What other planet besides Mercury and Pluto has an eliptical orbit rather than a circular one? #. What is the name of the red star in the constellation Orion? #. A day on the Moon is times as long as a day on Earth. #. Within how much time after an atomic explosion is the peak of radiation reached? #. The lightest of all the elements that are solid at ordinary temperature is #. A star that is a cephied variable is what color? #. What is another name for the great nebula in Andromeda? #. The explosion energy of A-bombs, H-bombs, and Lithium bombs is caused by a  reaction process. Intelligent parents readily understand why they must not try to educate and train their children. Robots do it much better; they do not confuse them with complexes or emotions or petty impulses. Even tired old Ed Doyle could tell you that much... , a surface car, waved fifty credits in the robot driver's face, mopped his florid face with a red pocket-handkerchief, unfastened his collar, perspired and licked his lips and swallowed piteously all the way to the hospital. The surface car slid up to a smooth halt before the great whitedomed hospital building. Ed leaped out and bounded up the steps three at a time, pushing through the visitors and convalescent patients standing on the broad terrace. He threw his weight against the door and emerged in the lobby, astonishing the attendants and persons of importance moving about their tasks. "Where?" Ed demanded, gazing around, his feet wide apart, his fists clenched, his chest rising and falling. His breath came hoarsely, like an animal's. Silence fell over the lobby. Everyone turned toward him, pausing in their work. "Where?" Ed demanded again. "Where is she? They?" It was fortunate Janet had been delivered of a child on this of all days; Proxima Centauri was a long way from Terra and the service was bad. Anticipating the birth of his child, Ed had left Proxima some weeks before. He had just arrived in the city. While stowing his suitcase in the luggage tread at the station the message had been handed to him by a robot courier; Los Angeles Central Hospital. At once, Ed hurried, and fast. As he hurried he couldn't help feeling pleased he had hit the day exactly right, almost to the hour. It was a good feeling. He had felt it before, during years of business dealings in the "Colonies", the frontier, the fringe of Terran civilization where the streets were still lit by electric lights and doors opened by hand. That was going to be hard to get used to. Ed turned toward the door behind him, feeling suddenly fooh ish. He had shoved it open, ignoring the eye. The door was just now closing, sliding slowly back in place. He calmed down a little, putting his handkerchief away in his coat pocket. The hospital attendants were resuming their work, picking up their activities where they had left off. One attendant, a strapping late-model robot, coasted over to Ed and halted. The robot balanced his noteboard expertly, his photocell eyes appraising Ed's flushed features. "May I enquire whom you are looking for, sir? Whom do you wish to find?" "My wife." "Her name, sir?" "Janet. Janet Doyle. She's just had a child," The robot consulted his board. "This way, sir." He coasted off down the passage. Ed followed nervously. "Is she okay? Did I get here in time?" His anxiety was returning. "She is quite well, sir." The robot raised his metal arm and a side door slid back. "In here, sir." Janet, in a chic blue-mesh suit, was sitting before a mahogany desk, a cigarette between her fingers, her slim legs crossed, talking rapidly. On the other side of the desk a well-dressed doctor sat listening. "Janet!" Ed said, entering the room. "Hi, Ed." She glanced up at him. "You just now get in?" "Sure. It's -- it's all over? You -- I mean, it's happened?" Janet laughed, her even white teeth sparkling. "Of course. Come in and sit. This is Doctor Bish." "Hello, Doc." Ed sat down nervously across from them. "Then it's all over?" "The event has happened," Doctor Bish said. His voice was thin and metallic. Ed realized with a sudden shock that the doctor was a robot. A top-level robot, made in humanoid form, not like the ordinary metal-limbed workers. It had fooled him -- he had been away so long. Doctor Bish appeared plump and well fed, with kindly features and eyeglasses. His large fleshy hands rested on the desk, a ring on one finger. Pinstripe suit and necktie. Diamond tie clasp. Nails carefully manicured. Hair black and evenly parted. But his voice had given him away. They never seemed to be able to get a really human sound into the voice. The compressed air and whirling disc system seemed to fall short. Otherwise, it was very convincing. "I understand you've been situated near Proxima, Mr. Doyle," Doctor Bish said pleasantly. Ed nodded. "Yeah." "Quite a long way, isn't it? I've never been out there. I have always wanted to go. Is it true they're almost ready to push on to Sirius?" "Look, doc -- " "Ed, don't be impatient." Janet stubbed out her cigarette, glancing reprovingly up at him. She hadn't changed in six months. Small blonde face, red mouth, cold eyes like little blue rocks. And now, her perfect figure back again. "They're bringing him here. It takes a few minutes. They have to wash him off and put drops in his eyes and take a wave shot of his brain." "He? Then it's a boy?" "Of course. Don't you remember? You were with me when I had the shots. We agreed at the time. You haven't changed your mind, have you?" "Too late to change your mind now, Mr. Doyle," Doctor Bfsh's toneless voice came, high-pitched and calm. "Your wife has decided to call him Peter." "Peter." Ed nodded, a little dazed. "That's right. We did decide, didn't we? Peter." He let the word roll around in his mind. "Yeah. That's fine. I like it." The wall suddenly faded, turning from opaque to transparent. Ed spun quickly. They were looking into a brightly lit room, filled with hospital equipment and whiteclad attendant robots. One of the robots was moving toward them, pushing a cart. On the cart was a container, a big metal pot. Ed's breathing increased. He felt a wave of dizziness. He went up to the transparent wall and stood gazing at the metal pot on the cart. Doctor Bish rose. "Don't you want to see, too, Mrs. Doyle?" "Of course." Janet crossed to the wall and stood beside Ed. She watched critically, her arms folded. Doctor Bish made a signal. The attendant reached into the pot and lifted out a wire tray, gripping the handles with his magnetic clamps. On the tray, dripping through the wire, was Peter Doyle, still wet from his bath, his eyes wide with astonishment. He was pink all over, except for a fringe of hair on the top of his head, and his great blue eyes. He was little and wrinkled and toothless, like an ancient withered sage. "Golly," Ed said. Doctor Bish made a second signal. The wall slid back. The attendant robot advanced into the room, holding his dripping tray out. Doctor Bish removed Peter from the tray and held him up for inspection. He turned him around and around, studying him from every angle. "He looks fine," he said at last. "What was the result of the wave photo?" Janet asked. "Result was good. Excellent tendencies indicated. Very promising. High development of the -- " The doctor broke off. "What is it, Mr. Doyle?" Ed was holding out his hands. "Let me have him, doc. I want to hold him." He grinned from ear to ear. "Let's see how heavy he is. He sure looks big." Doctor Bish's mouth fell open in horror. He and Janet gaped. "Ed!" Janet exclaimed sharply. "What's the matter with you?" "Good heavens, Mr. Doyle," the doctor murmured. Ed blinked. "What?" "If I had thought you had any such thing in mind -- " Doctor Bish quickly returned Peter to the attendant. The attendant rushed Peter from the room, back to the metal pot. The cart and robot and pot hurriedly vanished, and the wall banged back in place. Janet grabbed Ed's arm angrily. "Good Lord, Ed! Have you lost your mind? Come on. Let's get out of here before you do something else." "But -- " "Come on." Janet smiled nervously at Doctor Bish. "We'll run along now, doctor. Thanks so much for ererything. Don't pay any attention to him. He's been out there so long, you know." "I understand," Doctor Bish said smoothly. He had regained his poise. "I trust we'll hear from you later, Mrs. Doyle." Janet pulled Ed out into the hall. "Ed, what's the matter with you? I've never been so embarrassed in all my life." Two spots of red glowed in Janet's cheeks. "I could have kicked you." "But what -- " "You know we aren't allowed to touch him. What do you want to do, ruin his whole life?" "But -- " "Gome on." They hurried outside the hospital, onto the terrace. Warm sunlight streamed down on them. "There's no telling what harm you've done. He may already be hopelessly warped. If he grows up all warped and -- and neurotic and emotional, it'll be your fault." Suddenly Ed remembered. He sagged, his features drooping with misery. "That's right. I forgot. Only robots can come near the children. I'm sorry, Jan. I got carried away. I hope I didn't do anything they can't fix." "How could you forget?" "It's so different out at Prox." Ed waved to a surface car, crest-fallen and abashed. The driver drew up in front of them. "Jan, I'm sorry as hell. I really am. I was all excited. Let's go have a cup of coffee someplace and talk. I want to know what the doctor said." E d had a cup of coffee and Janet sipped at a brandy frappe. The Nymphite Room was pitch black except for a vague light oozing up from the table between them. The table diffused a pale illumination that spread over everything, a ghostly radiation seemingly without source. A robot waitress moved back and forth soundlessly with a tray of drinks. Recorded music played softly in the back of the room. "Go on," Ed said. "Go on?" Janet slipped her jacket off and laid it over the back of her chair. In the pale light her breasts glowed faintly. "There's not much to tell. Everything went all right. It didn't take long. I chatted with Doctor Bish most of the time." "I'm glad I got here." "How was your trip?" "Fine." "Is the service getting any better? Does it still take as long as it did?" "About the same." "I can't see why you want to go all the way out there. It's so -- so cut off from things. What do you find out there? Are plumbing fixtures really that much in demand?" "They need them. Frontier area. Everyone wants the refinements." Ed gestured vaguely. "What did he tell you about Peter? What's he going to be like? Can he tell? I guess it's too soon." "He was going to tell me when you started acting the way you did. I'll call him on the vidphone when we get home. His wave pattern should be good. He comes from the best eugenic stock." Ed grunted. "On your side, at least." "How long are you going to be here?" "I don't know. Not long. I'll have to go back. I'd sure like to see him again, before I go;" He glanced up hopefully at his wife. "Do you think lean?" "I suppose." "How long will he have to stay there?" "At the hospital? Not long. A few days." Ed hesitated. "I didn't mean at the hospital, exactly. I mean with them. How long before we can have him? How long before we can bring him home?" There was silence. Janet finished her brandy. She leaned back, lighting a cigarette. Smoke drifted across to Ed, blending with the pale light. "Ed, I don't think you understand. You've been out there so long. A lot has happened since you were a child. New methods, new techniques. They've found out so many things they didn't know. They're making progress, for the first time. They know what to do. They're developing a real methodology for dealing with children. For the growth period. Attitude development. Training." She smiled brightly at Ed. "I've been reading all about it." "How long before we get him?" "In a few days he'll be released from the hospital. He'll go to a child guidance center. He'll be tested and studied. They'll determine his various capacities and his latent abilities. The direction his development seems to be taking." "And then?" "Then he's put in the proper educational division. So he'll get the right training. Ed, you know, I think he's really going to something! I could tell by the way Doctor Bish looked. He was studying the wave pattern charts when I came in. He had a look on his face. How can I describe it?" She searched for the word. "Well, almost -- almost a greedy look. Real excitement. They take so much interest in what they're doing. He -- " "Don't say he. Say it." "Ed, really! What's got into you?" "Nothing." Ed glared sullenly down. "Go on." "They make sure he's trained in the right direction. All the time he's there ability tests are given. Then, when he's about nine, he'll be transferred to -- " "Nine! You mean nine years?" "Of course." "But when do we get him?" "Ed, I thought you knew about this. Do I have to go over the whole thing?" "My God, Jan! We can't wait nine years!" Ed jerked himself upright. "I never heard of such a thing. Nine years? Why, he'll be half grown by then." "That's the point." Janet leaned toward him, resting her bare elbow against the table. "As long as he's growing he has to be with them. Not with us. Afterwards, when he's finished growing, when he's no longer so plastic, then we can be with him all we want." . "Afterwards? When he's eighteen?" Ed leaped up, pushing his chair back. "I'm going down there and get him." "Sit down, Ed." Janet gazed up calmly, one supple arm thrown lightly over the back of her chair. "Sit down and act like an adult, for a change." "Doesn't it matter to you? Don't you care?" "Of course I care." Janet shrugged. "But it's necessary. Otherwise he won't develop correctly. It's for his good. Not ours. He doesn't exist for us. Do you want him to have conflicts?" Ed moved away from the table. "I'll see you later." "Where are you going?" "Just around. I can't stand this kind of place. It bothers me. I'll see you later." Ed pushed across the room to the door. The door opened and he found himself on the shiny noon-day street. Hot sunlight beat down on him. He blinked, adjusting himself to the blinding light. People streamed around him. People and noise. He moved with them. He was dazed. He had known, of course. It was there in the back of his mind. The new developments in child care. But it had been abstract, general. Nothing to do with him. With his child. He calmed himself, as he walked along. He was getting all upset about nothing. Janet was right, of course. It was for Peter's good. Peter didn't exist for them, like a dog or cat. A pet to have around the house. He was a human being, with his own life. The training was for him, not for them. It was to develop him, his abilities, his powers. He was to be molded, realized, brought out. Naturally, robots could do the best job. Robots could train him scientifically, according to a rational technique. Not according to emotional whim. Robots didn't get angry. Robots didn't nag and whine. They didn't spank a child or yell at him. They didn't give conflicting orders. They didn't quarrel among themselves or use the child for their own ends. And there could be no Oedipus Complex, with only robots around. No complexes at all. It had been discovered long ago that neurosis could be traced to childhood training. To the way parents brought up the child. The inhibitions he w'as taught, the manners, the lessons, the punishments, the rewards. Neuroses, complexes, warped development, all stemmed from the subjective relationship existing betveen the child and the parent. If perhaps the parent could be eliminated as a factor... Parents could never become objective about their children. It was always a biased, emotional projection the parent held toward the child. Inevitably, the parent's view was distorted. No parent could be a fit instructor for his child. Robots could study the child, analyze his needs, his wants, test his abilities and interests. Robots would not try to force the child to fit a certain mold. The child would be trained along his own lines; wherever scientific study indicated his interest and need lay. Ed came to the corner. Traffic whirred past him. He stepped absently forward. A clang and crash. Bars dropped in front of him, stopping him. A robot safety control. "Sir, be more careful!" the strident voice came, close by him. "Sorry." Ed stepped back. The control bars lifted. He waited for the lights to change. It was for Pete's own good. Robots could train him right. Later on, when he was out of his growth stage, when he was not so pliant, so responsive -- "It's better for him," Ed murmured. He said it again, half aloud. Some people glanced at him and he colored. Of course it was better for him. No doubt about it. Eighteen. He couldn't be with his son until he was eighteen. Practically grown up. The lights changed. Deep in thought, Ed crossed the street with the other pedestrians, keeping carefully inside the safety lane. It was best for Peter. But eighteen years was a long time. "A hell of a long time," Ed murmured, frowning. "Too damn long a time." studied the man standing in front of him. His relays and memory banks clicked, narrowing down the image identification, flashing a variety of comparison possibilities past the scanner. "I recall you, sir," Doctor Bish said at last. "You're the man from Proxima. From the colonies. Doyle. Edward Doyle. Let's see. It was some time ago. It must have been -- " "Nine years ago," Ed Doyle said grimly. "Exactly nine years ago, practically to the day." Doctor Bish folded his hands. "Sit down, Mr. Doyle. What can I do for you? How is Mrs. Doyle? Very engaging wife, as I recall. We had a delightful conversation during her delivery. How -- " "Doctor Bish, do you know where my son is?" Doctor Bish considered, tapping his fingers on the desk top, the polished mahogany surface. He closed his eyes slightly, gazing off into the distance. "Yes. Yes, I know where your son is, Mr. Doyle." Ed Doyle relaxed. "Fine." He nodded, letting his breath out in relief. "I know exactly where your son is. I placed him in the Los Angeles Biological Research Station about a year ago. He's undergoing specialized training there. Your son, Mr. Doyle, has shown exceptional ability. He is, shall I say, one of the few, the very few we have found with real possibilities." "Can I see him?" "See him? How do you mean?" Doyle controlled himself with an effort. "I think the term is clear." Doctor Bish rubbed his chin. His photocell brain whirred, operating at maximum velocity. Switches routed power surges, building up loads and leaping gaps rapidly, as he contemplated the man before him. "You wish to view him? That's one meaning of the term. Or do you wish to talk to him? Sometimes the term , is used to cover a more direct contact. It's a loose word." "I want to talk to him." "I see." Bish slowly drew some forms from the dispenser on his desk. "There are a few routine papers that have to be filled out first, of course. Just how long did you want to speak to him?" Ed Doyle gazed steadily into Doctor Bish's bland face. "I want to talk to him several hours. Alone." "Alone?" "No robots around." Doctor Bish said nothing. He stroked the papers he held, creasing the edges with his nail. "Mr. Doyle," he said carefully, "I wonder if you're in a proper emotional state to visit your son. You haye recently come in from the colonies?" "I left Proxima three weeks ago." "Then you have just arrived here in Los Angeles?" "That's right." "And you've come to see your son? Or have you other business?" "I came for my son." "Mr. Doyle, Peter is at a very critical stage. He has just recently been transferred to the Biology Station for his higher training. Up to now his training has been general. What we call the non-differentiated stage. Recently he has entered a new period. Within the last six months Peter has begun advanced work along his specific line, that of organic chemistry. He will -- " "What does Peter think about it?" Bish frowned. "I don't understand, sir." "How does he feel? Is it what he wants?" "Mr. Doyle, your son has the possibility of becoming one of the world's finest bio-chemists. In all the time we have worked with human beings, in their training and development, we have never come across a more alert and integrated faculty for the assimilation of data, construction of theory, formulation of material, than that which your son possesses. All tests indicate he will rapidly rise to the top of his chosen field. He is still only a child, Mr. Doyle, but it is the children who must be trained." Doyle stood up. "Tell me where I can find him. I'll talk to him for two hours and then the rest is up to him." "The rest?" Doyle clamped his jaw shut. He shoved his hands in his pockets. His face was flushed and set, grim with determination. In the nine years he had grown much heavier, more stocky and florid. His thinning hair had turned iron-gray. His clothes were dumpy and unpressed. He looked stubborn. Doctor Bish sighed. "All right, Mr. Doyle. Here are the papers. The law allows you to observe your boy whenever you make proper application. Since he is out of his nondifferentiated stage, you may also speak to him for a period of ninety minutes." "Alone." "You can take him away from the Station grounds for that length of time." Doctor Bish pushed the papers over to Doyle. "Fill these out, and I'll have Peter brought here." He looked up steadily at the man standing before him. "I hope you'll remember that any emotional experience at this crucial stage may do much to inhibit his development. He has chosen his field, Mr. Doyle. He must be permitted to grow along his selected lines, unhindered by situational blocks. Peter has been in contact with our technical staff throughout his entire training period. He is not accustomed to contact with other human beings. So please be careful." Doyle said nothing. He grabbed up the papers and plucked out his fountain pen. H e hardly recognized his son when the two robot attendants brought him out of the massive concrete Station building and deposited him a few yards from Ed's parked surface car. Ed pushed the door open. "Pete!" His heart was thumping heavily, painfully. He watched his son come toward the car, frowning in the bright sunlight. It was late afternoon, about four. A faint breeze blew across the parking lot, rustling a few papers and bits of debris. Peter stood slim and straight. His eyes were large, deep brown, like Ed's. His hair was light, almost blonde. More like Janet's. He had Ed's jaw, though, the firm line, clean and well-chiseled. Ed grinned at him. Nine years it had been. Nine years since the robot attendant had lifted the wire rack up from the conveyor pot, to show him the little wrinkled baby, red as a boiled lobster. Peter had grown. He was not a baby any longer. He was a young boy, straight and proud, with firm features and wide, clear eyes. "Pete," Ed said. "How the hell are you?"  The boy stopped by the door of the car. He gazed at Ed calmly. His eyes flickered, taking in the car, the robot driver, the heavy-set man in the rumpled tweed suit grinning nervously at him. "Get in. Get inside." Ed moved over. "Come on. We have places to go." The boy was looking at him again. Suddenly Ed was conscious of his baggy suit, his unshined shoes, his gray stubbled chin. He flushed, yanking out his red pocket-handkerchief and mopping his forehead uneasily. "I just got off the ship, Pete. From Proxima. I haven't had" time to change. Fm a little dusty. Long trip." Peter nodded. "# light years, isn't it?" "Takes three weeks. Get in. Don't you want to get in?" Peter slid in beside him. Ed slammed the door. "Let's go." The car started up. "Drive -- " Ed peered out the window. "Drive up there. By the hill. Out of town." He turhed to Pete. "I hate big cities. I can't get used to them." "There are no large cities in the colonies, are there?" Peter murmured. "You're unused to urban living." Ed settled back. His heart had begun to slow down to its normal beat. "No, as a matter of fact it's the other way around, Pete." "How do you mean?" "I went to Prox because I couldn't stand cities." Peter said nothing. The surface car was climbing, going up a steep highway into the hills. The Station, huge and impressive, spread out like a heap of cement bricks directly below them. A few cars moved along the road, but not many. Most transportation was by air, now. Surface cars had begun to disappear. The road levelled off. They moved along the ridge of the hills. Trees and bushes rose on both sides of them. "It's nice up here," Ed said. "Yes." "How -- how have you been? I haven't seen you for a long time. Just once. Just after you were born." "I know. Your visit is listed in the records." "You been getting along all right?" "Yes. Quite well." "They treating you all right?" "Of course." After awhile Ed leaned forward. "Stop here," he said to the robot driver. The car slowed down, pulling over to the side of the road. "Sir, there is nothing -- " "This is fine. Let us out. We'll walk from here." The car stopped. The door slid reluctantly open. Ed stepped quickly out of the car, onto the pavement. Peter got out slowly after him, puzzled. "Where are we?" "No place." Ed slammed the door. "Go on back to town," he said to the driver. "We won't need you." The car drove off. Ed walked to the side of the road. Peter came after him. The hill dropped away, falling down to the beginnings of the city below. A vast panorama stretched out, the great metropolis in the late afternoon sun. Ed took a deep breath, throwing his arms out. He took off his coat and tossed it over his shoulder. "Come on." He started down the hillside. "Here we go." "Where?" "For a walk. Let's get off this damn road." They climbed down the side of the hill, walking carefully, holding onto the grass and roots jutting out from the soil. Finally they came to a level place by a big sycamore tree. Ed threw himself down on the ground, grunting and wiping sweat from his neck. "Here. Let's sit here." Peter sat down carefully, a little way off. Ed's blue shirt was stained with sweat. He unfastened his tie and loosened his collar. Presently he searched through his coat pockets. He brought out his pipe and tobacco. Peter watched him fill the pipe and light it with a big sulphur match. "What's that?" he murmured. "This? My pipe." Ed grinned, sucking at the pipe. "Haven't you ever seen a pipe?" "No." "This is a good pipe. I got this when I first went out to Proxima. That was a long time ago, Pete. It was twenty-five years ago. I was just nineteen, then. Only about twice as old as you." He put his tobacco away and leaned back, his heavy face serious, preoccupied. "Just nineteen. I went out there as a plumber. Repair and sales, when I could make a sale. Terran Plumbing. One of those big ads you used to see. Unlimited opportunGold in the streets." Ed laughed. "How did you make out?" "Not bad. Not bad at all. I own my own line, now, you know. I service the whole Proxima system. We do repairing, maintenance, building. Construction. I've got six hundred people working for me. It took a long time. It didn't come easy." "No." "Hungry?" Peter turned. "What?" "Are you hungry?" Ed pulled a brown paper parcel from his coat and unwrapped it. "I still have a couple sandwiches from the trip. When I come in from Prox I bring some food along with me. I don't like to buy in the diner. They skin you." He held out the parcel. "Want one?" "No thank you." Ed took a sandwich and began to eat. He ate nervously, glancing at his son. Peter sat silently, a short distance off, staring ahead without expression. His smooth handsome face was blank. "Everything all right?" Ed said. "Yes." "You're not cold, are you?" "No." "You don't want to catch cold." A squirrel crossed in front of them, hurrying toward the sycamore tree. Ed threw it a piece of his sandwich. The squirrel ran off a way, then came back slowly. It scolded at them, standing up on its hind feet, its great gray tail flowing out behind it. Ed laughed. "Look at him. Ever see a squirrel before?" "I don't think so." The squirrel ran off with the piece of sandwich. It disappeared among the brush and bushes. "Squirrels don't exist out around Prox," Ed said. "No." "It's good to come back to Terra once in awhile. See some of the old things. They're going, though." "Going?" "Away. Destroyed. Terra is always changing." Ed waved around at the hillside. "This will be gone, someday. They'll cut down the trees. Then they'll level it. Someday they'll carve the whole range up and carry it off. Use it for fill, someplace along the coast." "That's beyond our scope," Peter said. "What?" "I don't receive that type of material. I think Doctor Bish told you. I'm working with bio-chemistry." "I know," Ed murmured. "Say, how the hell did you ever get mixed up with that stuff? Bio-chemistry?" "The tests showed that my abilities lie along those lines." "You enjoy what you're doing?" "What a strange thing to ask. Of course I enjoy what I'm doing. It's the work I'm fitted for." "It seems funny as hell to me, starting a nine year old kid off on something like that." "Why?" "My God, Pete. When I was nine I was bumming around town. In school sometimes, outside mostly, wandering here and there. Playing. Reading. Sneaking into the rocket launching yards all the time." He considered. "Doing all sorts of things. When I was sixteen I hopped over to Mars. I stayed there awhile. Worked as a hasher. I went on to Ganymede. Ganymede was all sewed up tight. Nothing doing there. From Ganymede I went out to Prox. Got a work-away all the way out. Big freighter." "You stayed at Proxima?" "I sure did. I found what I wanted. Nice place, out there. Now we're starting on to Sirius, you know." Ed's chest swelled. "I've got an outlet in the Sirius system. Little retail and service place." "Sirius is # light years from Sol." "It's a long way. Seven weeks, from here. Rough grind. Meteor swarms. Keeps things hot all the way out." "I can imagine." "You know what I thought I might do?" Ed turned toward his son, his face alive with hope and enthusiasm. "I've been thinking it over. I thought maybe I'd go out there. To Sirius. It's a fine little place we have. I drew up the plans myself. Special design to fit with the characteristics of the system." Peter nodded. "Pete -- " "Yes?" "Do you think maybe you'd be interested? Like to hop out to Sirius and take a look? It's a good place. Four clean planets. Never touched. Lots of room. Miles and miles of room. Cliffs and mountains. Oceans. Nobody around. Just a few colonists, families, some construction. Wide, level plains." "How do you mean, interested?" "In going all the way out." Ed's face was pale. His. mouth twitched nervously. "I thought maybe you'd like to come along and see how things are. It's a lot like Prox was, twenty-five years ago. It's good and clean out there. No cities." Peter smiled. "Why are you smiling?" "No reason." Peter stood up abruptly. "If we have to walk back to the Station we better start. Don't you think? It's getting late." "Sure." Ed struggled to his feet. "Sure, but -- " "When are you going to be back in the Sol system again?" "Back?" Ed followed after his son. Peter climbed up the hill toward the road. "Slow down, will you?" Peter slowed down. Ed caught up with him. "I don't know when I'll be back. I don't come here very often. No ties. Not since Jan and I separated. As a matter of fact I came here this time to -- " "This way." Peter started down the road. Ed hurried along beside him, fastening his tie and putting his coat on, gasping for breath. "Pete, what do you say? You want to hop out to Sirius with me? Take a look? It's a nice place out there. We could work together. The two of us. If you want." "But I already have my work." "That stuff? That damn chemistry stuff?" Peter smiled again. Ed scowled, his face dark red. "Why are you smiling?" he demanded. His son did not answer. "What's the matter? What's so damn funny?" "Nothing," Peter said. "Don't become excited. We have a long walk down." He increased his pace slightly, his supple body swinging in long, even strides. "It's getting late. We have to hurry." wristwatch, pushing back his pinstriped coat sleeve. "I'm glad you're back." "He sent the surface car away," Peter murmured. "We had to walk down the hill on foot." It was dark outside. The Station lights were coming on automatically, along the rows of buildings and laboratories. Doctor Bish rose from his desk. "Sign this, Peter. Bottom of this form." Peter signed. "What is it?" "Certifies you saw him in accord with the provisions of the law. We didn't try to obstruct you in any way." Peter handed the paper back. Bish filed it away with the others. Peter moved toward the door of the doctor's office. "I'll go. Down to the cafeteria for dinner." "You haven't eaten?" "No." Doctor Bish folded his arms, studying the boy. "Well?" he said. "What do you think of him? This is the first time you've seen your father. It must have been strange for you. You've been around us so much, in all your training and work." "It was -- unusual." "Did you gain any Impressions? Was there any thing you particularly noticed?" "He was very emotional. There was a distinct bias through everything he said and did. A distortion present, virtually uniform." "Anything else?" Peter hesitated, lingering at the door. He broke into a smile. "One other thing." "What was it?" "I noticed -- " Peter laughed. "I noticed a distinct odor about him. A constant pungent smell, all the time I was with him." "I'm afraid that's true of all of them," Doctor Bish said. "Certain skin glands. Waste products thrown off from the blood. You'll get used to it, after you've been around them more." "Do I have to be around them?" "They're your own race. How else can you work with them? Your whole training is designed with that in mind. When we've taught you all we can, then you will -- " "It reminded me of something. The pungent odor. I kept thinking about it, all the time I was with him. Trying to place it." "Can you identify it now?" Peter reflected. He thought hard, concentrating deeply. His small face wrinkled up. Doctor Bish waited patiently by his desk, his arms folded. The automatic heating system clicked on for the night, warming the room with a soft glow that drifted gently around them. "I know!" Peter exclaimed suddenly. "What was it?" "The animals in the biology labs. It was the same smell. The same smell as the experimental animals." They glanced at each other, the robot doctor and the promising young boy. Both of them smiled, a secret, private smile. A smile of complete understanding. "I believe I know what you mean," Doctor Bish said. "In fact, I know exactly what you mean."    Beaumont to appear in IF since his much reprinted The Beautiful People. It is a story of human terror and the clash of two cultures, one of the distant tomorrow and one of the ancient yesterday, in a city carved out of the steaming jungle. Which will survive?... It's a novelette, by one of America's outstanding young writers, that will rate with the best science fiction you have read all year. Don't miss it! Illustrated by Virgil Finlay The black dwarf sun sent its assassin on a mission which was calculated to erase the threat to its existence. But prophesies run in strange patterns and, sometimes, an act of evasion becomes an act of fulfillment... , T he ruler of a planet with a black dwarf sun had called a meeting of the council. It was some time before they were assembled, and he waited patiently without thought. When the patchwork of mentalities was complete he allowed the condusions of the prognosticator to occupy his mind. A wall of unanimous incredulity sprang up. The statement was that when the inhabitants of a distant planet achieved space flight they would come to this planet, and use a weapon invented by an individual to destroy it. The prognosticator could not lie, and soon the facade dissolved into individual reactions as acceptance became general. Anger, fear, resignation, and greedy little thoughts of self-aggrandizement. Those thoughts were replaced by a quiescent, questioning receptivity. The questioning grew out of proportion, became hysterical, assumed the panic shape. Self-preservation demanding that there be a solution. Minor prophecies had been evaded before. Details of the individual had been supplied, could not something be done? The Assassin was summoned. The pattern of Dr. Simon Cartwright's encephalic emanations, and the approximate position of the center of these emanations were impressed on its mind. And in a strangely bulbous ship it plunged outward from that eternally dark and silent planet towards Earth, road. A high road. A silent, dark road. Below him on both sides of the road flat marshland swept away, and a little wind caressed him with chill fingers. His tiny world of road beneath him, darkness around him, sky above him, contained only the sound of his footsteps -- and one other. A regular, liquid sound. He thought it was a sound from the marsh. He listened to it, and wondered how long it had been with him. It was close behind him on the road. He stopped, turned round in small curiosity, and bellowed in great horror. He threw up his hands against an immense bulk, a frog-like shape, a lurching, flowing movement. Then it was upon him, and stilled his futile writhings, and passed over him, and left him dead. The Assassin continued along the road. It was aware that it had killed, but it could not contemplate the fact. It possessed all the mental powers of its race, but its conditioning had focused them in one direction, the assassination of Dr. Cartwright. It could consider only those factors which had a direct relation to that purpose. Daylight was one of those factors. It was not aware of the passage of time, but when the sensitive patch on its back began to contract it left the road and went to the marsh. There it burrowed into the slime until green-flecked water closed over it. And deeper until a depth of mud protected it from the sun. Dr. Cartwright groaned and sat up in bed. He silenced the ringing telephone by putting the receiver to his ear. "Do you know what time it is?" he asked, aggrieved. "Hello? Doctor Cartwright? This is the police." "It is half-past seven," continued Simon. "For me, the middle of the night. I am in no fit state to measure a drunk's reactions." "I'm sorry, sir, but there's been an accident. On the Waverton Highway. A man is dead. Inspector Andrews is in charge of the case." "Inspector Andrews? Is mayhem suspected? Never mind. I'll get down there, right away." He put the receiver down and got out of bed. His wife muttered something unintelligible and wrapped his share of the blankets round her. Simon went downstairs. He made a cup of coffee and drank it while he dressed. The engine of his car was cold, but his house was on a hill and he was able to coast down to the Highway. The road was level and straight, and after a few minutes driving a little tableau came into sight -- two cars, a group of uniforms. Inspector Andrews, tall, thin, dyspeptic, greeted him with a limp handshake. "Something funny about this," he said. "See what you think." Simon went down on one knee beside the body and began to undo the clothing. After a time he looked up into the sky. "This is very strange," he murmured. "I know," grunted Andrews. "Can they take the body now?" Simon stood up and nodded. He remained staring out across the marsh until the body had been removed, and the ambulanCe a distant object. Then he went and sat in his car. Andrews finished giving instructions to his Sergeant, and joined him. "I'll let you give me breakfast," he said. "You're very kind," said Simon absently, and released the brake. "Any use asking for the cause of death?" asked Andrews. "Oh, the cause of death was crushing, but the cause of the cause of death -- " Simon shookhis head. "There wasn't an unbroken bone in his body. Could he have been dropped from an airplane?" Andrews shook a ponderous head. "He was a bus driver on his way to work without an enemy in the world. And I've a feeling his death is going to keep me awake at nights. Anyway, Sergeant Bennet is going over the area with a magnifying glass. We'll put up a pretty good show. Can you suggest anything?" "It wasn't a car," said Simon carefully. "The skin was unbroken, except from the inside. I can only imagine something like a rubbercovered steam-roller." T hat night the Assassin killed two people. When it grew dark it heaved itself up out of the slime. A long business of bodily expansion and contraction. Two men were on the road and heard the noise it made. "Somethin' out there." "Stray cow, maybe." They stood and peered into the dark, trying to see a familiar shape. The Assassin approached them, and was too big for them to see. They stood in its path and looked for a familiar object in the blackness of its body. So the instant of apprehension was small, the panic and exertion soon over. Without pausing the Assassin moved over them and continued on its way. A little later Inspector Andrews found them. He was in a radio patrol car, and he was moving in the same direction as the Assassin. With him in the car were three large men carrying automatic rifles. Andrews stopped the car, and one of the men got out and knelt by the bodies. Andrews watched him somberly for a moment then reached for the microphone. He spoke to the station sergeant. "Inspector Andrews here. Send an ambulance out here, will you, and phone Dcx:tor Cartwright. Tel! him the steam-roller's loose again. It may be on the road heading his way. Yes, steam-roller. He'll understand." He put the microphone down, called to the man on the road. "I'm leaving you here, Roberts. There's an ambulance on its way. Go back with it. Get in Sergeant Bennet's car and both of you join us up ahead." He closed the car window and released the brake. The empty road began to unwind slowly into the area of light ahead. Simon put the receiver down and looked at his wife. She was concentrating on a sock by the fire. He went over and kissed the top of her head. "Goodbye," she said. "Listen," he said quietly. "When I'm gone lock the door behind me and don't go out. If you hear any funny noises go down to the cellar. Understand?" She was a little frightened. "Honey, what is it?" He smiled. "It's nothing. Long John Andrews is out hunting. I'm going along in case he shoots himself." He took his shot-gun off the mantle and stuffed his pockets with cartridges. "I'll bring you back a rabbit," he said. "So long." He drove down slowly. He was scared, but he was still young enough to find it exhilarating. The loaded shot-gun was a great help. He turned on to the highway, and slowed to walking pace. He stared into the darkness ahead until his eyes burned, and imagination peopled his surroundings with writhing shapes. Then he saw it, and the muscles across his chest trembled convulsively. Fear clutched his stomach. He slammed his foot down on the brake and gaped up at it. It was standing still in the middle of the road, a giant, pear shaped body, looking something like a man kneeling upright. At the front, turned inwards, were a number of armlike appendages. The shot-gun was ridiculous now, the car made of paper. To get out and run was impossible, and he longed to be able to sit still and do nothing. And the seconds dragged by. Time for contemplation built up, and a strange realization dropped into his seething mind. He sensed something about its attitude. A cringing, a withdrawal. "God," he whispered. "It doesn't like the light." He might have relaxed then, but it moved. One of its arms unfolded, swung outward holding something metallic. Simon yelled. He grabbed the shot-gun, shoved the door catch down, threw his weight sideways. He landed on his shoulder and kept on rolling. He reached the other side of the road, straightened up, and saw the roof of the car fly off with a roar. He fired then, from a crouching position and without taking aim. A lucky shot that hit the end of the weapon arm and shattered it. Then he ran, and the Assassin followed. He ran in the direction he'd been heading, and gave himself up to terror. He was primaeval man fleeing from sabre-tooth. He was living a nightmare. His brain reeled, air burnt his lungs, and his pounding heart echoed in his temples. Then he was running into a blaze of light, between headlights that enfolded him like a mother's arms, and he was clinging to a radiator cap. Dimly he heard the crash of high powered rifles about him. A black figure came into his haven of light, began to loosen his tie. "Get out of the light," he gasped. "It doesn't like the light." "Who invitedyou?" grunted Andrews. He put Simon's arm round his neck, and half carried him round to the side of the car, pushed him into the front seat. "I'll be all right in a minute," said Simon. "Yeah," said Andrews, and left him. After a little while the trembling in his limbs began to subside, breathing became easier. He leaned forward and watched a strange battle. The Assassin was about seventy yards ahead, moving slowly nearer. Two men stood on the right hand side of the car, pumping bullets into the grey, indistinct mass. Andrews stood watching with his hands in his jacket pockets. Suddenly he said, "All right, let go. You're only wasting bullets." Simon looked at him in alarm. "Hey, you're not just going to stand there. It doesn't like the light, but light canH kill it." "Lie down on the floor," said Andrews dourly, without looking at him. "Eh?" Andrews ignored him, stepped two paces forward. The Assassin was about twenty yards away now, seeming to have to fight against the stream of light. Andrews took his hands from his pockets. Simon saw what he was holding, and dived for the floor. He clasped his hands over the back of his neck as the night exploded with a gigantic crash. When his ears had stopped screaming he got up. Andrews, an elbow on the window ledge, was watching him expressionlessly. "You might hav'e left me something to dissect," complained Simon. "Somebody's got to, you know." "I'll mop you up a sponge full," said Andrews. "Oh, no, you won't. You and your men stay back here. It's probably crawling with alien bacteria." Actually, quite a lot of the Assassin was left, but decomposition was very rapid. Simon did the best he could with a magnifying glass and a penknife. He found that the body was almost entirely composed of bone and flesh in a honey-comb like structure. The bone being highly flexible, and the cavities filled with grey flesh. Flesh which quickly liquified and drained away from the bone. There was no blood, and Simon could find no trace of internal organs. While he worked two more cars drove up, and gave him a little more light, but soon he had to give up. As he walked slowly back a spotlight sprang suddenly to life, and a pleasant authoritative voice spoke. "Will you stay where you are, please, Doctor Cartwright." Simon obeyed. Hell, "he thought wearily. Officialdom has arrived. He shaded his eyes against the light, but he could see nothing. "Who's that?" he asked. "Commanding officer in charge of operations in this emergency. You've made an examination?" "As far as I could. There's complete decomposition now." "Oh, I see." A slight pause, then ; "Perhaps I'd better put you in the picture. This is armed aggression, Doctor Cartwright. In any language it says war. Do you understand? We're at war, now. "We found the vessel your friend came in several days ago. It was in the sea, twenty miles from here. Its discovery was kept secret because we weren't sure of its point of origin. Our people are engaged in finding the method of propulsion. They say it will give us the ability to travel in space. They also say that they can find the approximate position of its home planet. All that is top priority, of course, but in the meanwhile we must have an emergency line of defence against these things. We want to know how to find them and how to destroy them with the least possible expenditure of life and material. You understand?" "Yes. I've got an idea about light waves. I fired a shot at it back there. The bone structure -- " "Don't tell me," interrupted the voice sharply. "Remember it. You realize, Doctor Cartwright, that you are just about the most important man alive. You know how fast it can move. You have fought it, you have examined it. So you can be sure that very good care will be taken of you." "What are you saying?" "I'm sorry, but you must see that you have to go into strict quarantine now. We dare not risk a plague. After quarantine you will go to work with our people. Now will you please get into the car at the extreme right, and follow the police." "Where am I going?" "Please hurry. There is a team of incendiaries waiting to clear the area." "Oh, damnation," sighed The Most Important Man Alive, and walked towards the waiting car. the prognosticator again, after the Assassin's failure had been recorded, he found that a qualification had been added. The prophecy was now being fulfilled. He considered this dispassionately. He visualised the complex pattern of implication almost with pleasure. Was the machine alive? Certainly it could contemplate itself. It had calculated the effect of its existence, and had used the knowledge to destroy them. Or had they condemned themselves? By losing the ability to question. For the information on which the prophecy was based could have been available to them. Or was the machine only obeying a greater Fate? A Decree, stating that any life-form that surrendered itself to the dictates of a machine was doomed. One thing alone was left to him. A choice. Without haste he began the preliminaries to thinking himself to death.    cellar, the attic, out in the alley, under the shipping counters, etc., and see if they had any back copies of IF hanging around collecting dust and whatnot. They did -- enough to feed a healthy hilly goat for several weeks. But we haven't got a billy goat, and our diet around the office here says We can't eat paper with ink on it. So, if you would like back Copies of IF -- for your collection, of course -- just send us # cents for each copy ordered. Available issues are listed below. Address : IF Magazine, Kingston, New York. Vol. #, No. #, March # Vol. #, No. #, March # Vol. #, No. #, July # Vol. #, No. #, April # Vol. #, No. #, Sept. # Vol. #, No. #, May # Vol. #, No. #, March # Vol. #, No. #, June # Vol. #, No. #, July # Vol. #, No. #, July # Vol. #, No. #, Sept. # Vol. #, No. #, Aug. # Vol. #, No. #, Nov. # Vol. #, No. #, Sept. # Vol. #, No. #, Jan. # Vol. #, No. #, Oct. # Only fear can hold Vou back... for "There Is a Time When Your lack Will Ohange!" Three years ago Marguerite Carter published this very true and, at the time, unbelievable statement -- "Russia is headed toward internal revolt and new leadership." Since then, Stalin died and new leaders have risen with rumblings of discord behind her Curtain! Today Miss Carter says, "Spain and Germany will be our first line of defense -- we will bring forth a new monetary plan. Marguerite Carter has studied many years, keeping records that may be used to help mankind. She is sincerely earnest in her life's purpose which is to give help where it is needed. Write to Marguerite Carter today. Don't let fear hold you back! You can also order the forecast of any one near and dear to you. Send complete birth informa tion on separate sheet of paper. Mprguerite Carter # Jackson Bldg. Indianapolis, Ind, # Jackson Bldg., Indianapolis, Ind. I onclose; by Marguerite Carter.  I for my forecast by Marguerite Carter Name. Cltv StrttA Place of Birtli Date f Birth Year Month Date (Hour if known) Illustrated by Kelly Freas The Hitch Hikers The Rell, a great and ancient Martian race, faced extinction when all moisture was swept from their planet. Then, one day, a lone visitor -- a strange, two-legged creature composed mostly of water -- landed on Mars... planet had taken centuries in all. The Rell had still been a great race when the process started. Construction of the canals was a prodigious feat but not a truly remarkable one. But what use are even canals when there is nothing to fill them? What cosmic influences might have caused the disaster baffled even the group-mind of the Rell. Through the eons the atmosphere had drifted into space; and with it went the life-giving moisture. Originally a liquid paradise, the planet was now a dry, hostile husk. TKe large groups of Rell had been the first to suffer. But in time even the tiny villages containing scopic entities had found too little moisture left to satisfy their thirst and the journey ever southward toward the pole had commenced. The new life was bitter and difficult and as their resources were depleted so also did their numbers diminish. Huddled at their last retreat the Rell watched the ever smaller ice cap annually diminish and lived with the knowledge they faced extinction. A mere thousand years more would see even this trifling remainder gone. Oh, you might say there was hope... of a sort. There might be Rell in the northern hemisphere. The canals girdled the globe and a similar ice cap could well exist at the opposite pole. Rell perhaps survived there also. But this was scant comfort. The fate of the Rell in the South was sealed. What hope of any brighter future for those in the North? And if they survived a few hundred thousand years longer... or if they had perished a similar period earlier, what actual difference did it make? There was no one more aware of this gloomy future than Raeillo eel#. In the old days a single unit of the group-mind of the Rell would have possessed but a single function and exercised this function perhaps a dozen times during his life. But due to the inexorable shrinkage only the most important problems now could command mind-action and each unit had been forced to forsake specialization for multi-purpose endeavors. Thus Raeilloeel# and his mate Raellu# were two of the five thousand units whose task was to multiply in any group-mind action involving mathematical prediction. Naturally Raeilloeel# and Raellu # did not waste their abilities in mundane problems not involving prediction. Nor did they divide, add, or subtract. That was assigned to other units just as had the task of sorting and interpreting their results. Raeillo eel # and Raellu# multiplied only. And it must be admitted they did it very well. It is a pity the Rell could not have multiplied physically as easily as Raeilloeel# and Raellu# multiplied mentally. With the exception of an occasional comet or meteor the Rell were seldom diverted by anything of a physical nature. The ice cap was their sole concern... But one afternoon a rare physical phenomenon was reported by a bank of observer Rell. "In the sky's northwest portion," an excited injunction came through. "Observe that patch of flaming red!" More observer Rell were quickly focused on the novel sight and further data was rapidly fed into the interpretive bank. The Rell were justifiably proud of their interpreters. With the race shrinkage it had proved impossible to properly train new interpreters. So, not without a great deal of sacrifice, the old interpreters, dating back to when the canals still flowed with water, had been kept alive. They were incredibly ancient but there was no doubt as to their ability. It was a truism among the Rell that the interpretive banks arrived at their conclusions faster than any other group and that these conclusions could be checked to hundreds of decimal places without finding inaccuracy. So it was no surprise to have the interpretive bank respond almost instantly, "It is quite odd but the flame appears to be of artificial origin." "Artificial!" came the rough and questing probe of the speculative bank. "But how could Rell possibly be out there?" "Who mentioned Rell?" was the interpretive bank's smug answer. They were not utterly averse to demonstrating their superior mental abilities on occasion. The speculative bank replied, "Artificial implies intelligence, and intelligence means Rel..." "Does it?" the interpretive bank interrupted. The speculative bank waited but the interpretive bank failed to enlarge on the provocative query. The Rell had found certain disadvantages accrued to abnormal prolongation of life and thus were not unused to the interpretive bank's occasional tendency to talk in riddles. "Perhaps not" the speculative bank replied after a quick check with the logical formulae held in reserve by the historical bank. "It is theoretically possible that Relllike individuals might have developed elsewhere, and perhaps even have developed intelligence, although, according to the historical bank, such an idea has never before been subjected to consideration. But what is the flame doing?" they continued, a trifle resentful at having been left to do work properly in the interpretive bank's province. The observation and interpretive banks once more came into play, studying the situation for several minutes. "The flame appears to be the exhaust of a fairly crude vessel," the interpretive bank finally reported, "propelled by ignition of some gaseous mixture." "Is it moving?" "Quite rapidly." "Where is it going?" This called into play the prophecy division of the mind and Raeilloeel# and Raellu#, who had been merely interested onlookers before, hurriedly meshed themselves with the other forty nine hundred odd of their fellows. (It was impossible to say at any given time just how many there were in their computer section, as several births and deaths had occured among the group since beginning the current observations. These would be suspended for the next several moments, however, as there was a strict prohibition against anyone being born, dying, or otherwise engaging in extraneous activity while their particular bank was either alerted or in action.) Raeilloeel# and Raellu# felt the group discipline take hold much more firmly than the free-and-easy mesh which each unit enjoyed with the complete group-mind during periods of leisure. With a speed that would have been dizzying and incomprehensible to any individual unit, the observing banks relayed huge masses of extraneous data to the interpretive bank. They strained out the salient facts and in turn passed these to the computing: prediction section. Here they were routed to the groups who would deal with them. Raeilloeel# and Raellu# found their own talents pressed into service a dozen or more times in the space of the minute and a half it took the computing : prediction and interpretive banks to arrive at the answer. "It's aimed here," the interpretive bank reported. "Here!" a jumble of incoherent and anarchistic thoughts resounded from many shocked and temporarily out-of-mesh units. "Order!" came a sharp command from the elite corp of three thousand disciplinary units. As stillness settled back over the group-mind the speculative bank once more came in. "By here... do you mean right here?" "Approximately." replied the interpretive bank with what would have sounded suspiciously like a chuckle in a human reply. "According to calculations the craft should land within half a mile of our present location." "Let's go there then and wait for it!" That thought from the now seldom used reservation of impulse. The speculative bank murmured, "I wonder if there would be any danger. How hot is that exhaust?" Calculations were rapidly made and the answer arrived at. The Rell prudently decided to remain where they were for the present. struments in the cramped control cabin which, being the only available space in the ship, doubled as living quarters. A larger man would have found the arrangement impossible. Brown, being #' #" and weighing # pounds found it merely intolerable. At the moment he was temporarily able to forget his discomfort, however. The many tiny dials and indicators told a story all their own to Brown's trained vision. "Just another half hour," he whispered to himself. "Just thirty more minutes .and I'll land. It may be just a dead planet but I'll still be the first." There really wasn't a great deal for Brown to do... The ship was selfguided. The Air Force had trusted robot mechanisms more than human reactions. Thus Brown's entire active contribution to the flight consisted in watching the dials (which recorded everything so even watching them was unnecessary) and in pressing the button which would cause the ship to start its return journey. Of course the scientists could have constructed another mechanism to press the button and made it a completely robot ship. But despite their frailties and. imperfections, human beings have certain advantages. Humans can talk. Machines may see and detect far more than their human creators but all they can do is record. They can neither interpret nor satisfactorily describe. Brown was present not only to report a human's reactions to the first Mars flight; he was also along to see that which the machines might miss. "We've never satisfactorily defined life," one of his instructors had told Brown shortly after he started the three grueling years of training which had been necessary, "so we can't very well build a foolproof machine for detecting it. That's why we've left room for # pounds of dead weight." "Meaning me?" "Meaning you." "And I'm your foolproof machine for detecting life?" "Let's say you're the closest we can come to it at present. We're banking everything on this first trip. It'll be at least eighteen months later before we can get a second ship into space. So it's up to you to get everything you can... some evidence of life, preferably animal, if possible. With public support it'll be a hell of a lot easier squeezing appropriations out of Congress for the next ship and to get public support we need the biggest possible play in the newspapers. If anything is newsworthy on Mars it should be evidence of life... even plant life." So here he was, # pounds of concentrated knowledge and anticipation, itching with the desire for action and also from more basic causes having to do with two months confinement in a small space with a minimum of water. "Life is most probable at the poles." the instructor had said. "You won't be able to stay long so we'll try to set you down right at the South Pole. You won't have room to bring back specimens. So keep your eyes open and absorb everything you see. Don't forget anything. What you bring back in your mind weighs nothing." "It's just sitting there," the observing banks reported, "and the red flame has gone out." "Is it safe now?" enquired the speculative bank. "In what way?" "Is it safe to go near that thing?" "It's very huge," ventured the observing banks unasked. There was a stir of activity which encompassed practically all except the most simple units and which lasted for perhaps five minutes while the speculative bank's last question was processed. Finally the interpretive bank reluctantly admitted, "We can't arrive at a positive answer. Too many unknown elements are present. We don't know for sure what caused the flame, when it might start again, or what, if anything, is inside." "But you said it was a work of intelligence. Doesn't that mean Rell would be inside?" "Not necessarily. They could have constructed the thing to operate itself." It was just then that the observing banks reported, "It's opening." The speculative bank quickly responded, "This is an emergency. We must be able to observe from close up. We'll have to approach it." "The entire mind?" enquired the disciplinary corps. The speculative bank hesitated. "No, we'll need to split up. Onefifth of us vvAll go, the rest remain here. It's a short distance and we'll still be able to continue in complete contact." Those who were to go were quickly sorted out and Raeilloeel# was quite thrilled to find he and Raellu# were included in the scouting party. The group set off briskly toward their objective but had moved hardly one hundred yards when a vertigo seemed to overtake them. Raeilloeel# found himself swimming helplessly in a vortex of darkness and isolation, blanked off from not only the group-mind and his bank but also from Raellu#. Frantically he grasped for some sort of stasis, but dependence on the group-mind was too ingrained and he was unable to stir his longdormant powers of sight and education. Then the isolation cleared to be replaced by a brief impression of chaos with perhaps a tinge of alienness. Another instant of vertigo followed and then everything was normal once more as the comfortable familiar mesh took hold. "What was that?" Even the speculative bank sounded frightened. "Sorry." The usually silent meshing bank sounded abashed. "We weren't prepared for that. Some sort of thought wave is issuing from the opening and it disrupted the group mesh till we were able to take it into calculation and rebuild the mesh around it." "Thought wave? Then there are Rell in that thing." "Do not compute before the mesh is set." the interpretive bank cautioned. "The presence of Rell, while extremely probable, is not yet entirely certain." Without waiting for a suggestion from elsewhere the disciplinary group ordered the entire mind forward. Perhaps, in time of stress, dormant qualities tend to emerge, Raeilloeel# mused. Certainly everyone, himself included, appeared to be exercising speculative qualities. Not that specialization isn't a marvelous blessing, he hastily added, in case the disciplinary corps might be scanning his bank. But the disciplinary corps itself was as fascinated by the phenomenon ahead as Raeilloeel#. Emerging from the infinitely huge upright thing was a mobile being, also infinitely huge. Not that they were the same size. The mobile one was small enough to fit easily through the opening in the lower portion of the larger. But beyond a certain point words lose meaning and infinitely huge was the closest measurement the tiny Rell could find for either the upright pointed thing or the knobby one which had emerged and was quickly identified as the source of the disrupting thought patterns. L eonard brown was enjoying himself thoroughly. The inside of a space suit can scarcely be termed comfortable but at least you can move around in it and Brown was making the most of this sensation after two months cramped in his tiny cell. He was, in fact, comporting himself much as a threeyear-old might have done after a similar release. But before long he settled down to the serious business of observing and mentally recording everything in sight. There were none of the mysterious 'canals' in view, which was disappointing; one piece of glamour the publicity boys would necessarily forego until the next trip. The ice cap itself, if such it could be called, was almost equally disappointing. On Earth it would have been dismissed as a mere frost patch, if this section was typical. For a radius of many yards the ground was blasted bare by the action of the exhaust and nowhere in sight did there appear to be more than the flimsiest covering of white over the brown sandy soil. "Not even lichens," muttered Brown in disgust. But disgust cannot long stand against the magic of a fresh new planet and Brown continued his avid, though barren, search until hunger forced his return to the ship. He had been able to detect no life and was completely unaware of his close proximity to the planet's dominant species. It had been considered neither practical nor particularly desirable to build a microscope into the space suit. Simplicity and the least possible weight had been the watchwords here as with everything designed to go aboard the ship. In any case, a microscope would have done Brown little good in trying to detect the submicroscopic beings of the Rell. The Rell, who had somewhat lost their fear of Brown, hastily retreated when they saw him returning to the still awesome ship. "But are you sure he's completely self-powered?" the speculative bank queried. "No Rell inside him at all?" "There are many Rell-like beings in various parts of him." replied the interpretive bank. "Some help digest his food, others are predators, and still others their enemies. But most are too big and clumsy to have developed intelligence, and even the small ones appear completely mindless." "But where do the thought waves come from? We all felt them." "It's hard to accept but we are almost forced to conclude they are emanating from the mobile unit itself, or rather from the living part within the cocoon." "You're positive they aren't the product of some of the Rell-beings inside?" "Almost positive. The mesh insists not. In fact, it claims this is an un-Rell like type of intelligence, though that appears to be a contradiction in terms. The thought pattern is completely outside our experience. In fact, it is so alien we haven't broken it down yet to the meaning behind it." "But if the Rell inside are too large to have developed intelligence, how could this gigantic monster in which they live have done so?" "We cannot yet say. Remember, the theory that intelligence cannot develop in creatures above a certain size is unproven, even though never before challenged. We've watched other races die through failure to adapt to change so apparently it is true of Rell-like creatures on this world. But who can say about organisms on another world or of the unprecedented size of this one? Completely different physical laws may apply." It was later that afternoon after the Rell had spent much time observing Brovra while Brown was busy observing the landscape that the interpretive bank made the triumphant announcement, "We have it! We've broken the thought waves down to their meanings and know what he's thinking. What would you like to know first?" "Check and see if there are any Rell inside the other thing or on his home world. They might have constructed him." "Apparently there are none, or at least no intelligent Rell, on his world. We can't guide his mind but the memory bank recorded all the thoughts weVe received and some time ago he was thinking of something he termed 'vermin'. Apparently these are sometimes Rell-like creatures, although far larger. He regards them as a great nuisance, but mindless. The big thing, by the way, he calls a 'ship' and it is utterly lifeless. We needn't fear the flame until this creature leaves." "What about him? What is he like?" "That's the most exciting part! He thought of his bodily needs once and we glimsed a concept dealing with his physical construction. It's incredible! His body is composed almost entirely of water... there's enough water in him alone to prolong the life of the Rell many ages. Further, the air in his 'ship' is heavily impregnated with moisture and he even has reserve supplies of water for his needs." At this, not only Raeilloeel#, but all except perhaps the most responsible units felt a shiver of primitive longing and perhaps even greed. Not for millenia had there been such a plentitude of water so close ! "Then can't we appropriate at least part of it?" asked the speculative bank. "Unfortunately both the 'man', as he calls himself, and his 'ship' are sealed so tightly that we could not penetrate either. Worse yet, almost half his time here is already gone. We don't quite understand his purpose here. His thoughts seem to say he is searching for Rell for some unfathomable reason yet he seems to know nothing of the Rell and cannot even detect us." time was almost all gone that the two big discoveries were made. During a routine check, the mesh came across a thought of the man's return and a visualization of his home world. It was so startling that the interpretive bank was recalled from its effort to try to devise a means through the spacesuit and set at the new problem. A hasty check of the man's subconscious thoughts revealed the big news. "Do you know," the interpretive bank announced, "not only does this being's home world have a moist atmosphere like that in his ship but two thirds of the surface of his world is liquid water!" Even the speculative bank was silent for a full two seconds after this news. Then a hasty impulse was sent to the disciplinary corps and the entire mind called into action. An extreme emergency upon which the fate of the race hinged called for the utmost effort by even the humblest members of the group. The Rell worked diligently and many blind alleys were explored, but it was not for some time that anyone thought of enquiring of the not-too-bright feeding bank how they were managing to keep the mind operating at considerably more than normal power with no frost within feeding distance. "We're taking moisture from the. air." was the answer. "Where is the moisture coming from?" the interpretive bank was asked. The answer didn't take long. Rapid measurements supplied it. "Some of it is vaporized frost but that vyouldn't be enough for our needs. The only other possibility is that moisture must be seeping away from either the man or his ship despite his sureness that they were both airtight and our own investigations which confirmed it." They had maintained a cautious distance from the ship for the most part despite the interpretive bank's assurance of no immediate danger. But now they swarmed over both it and the spacesuit determined to detect the leak. They found none. And now the man was returning to his ship. "This is the last time." the mesh warned. It was now or never. For a second there was conflict over control of the circuits to the disciplinary corps which carried with it command of the organism during the emergency. The speculative bank customarily assumed this responsibility, but a slight schism had developed between it and the interpretive bank. The latter's greater age and skill came into play and victory was quickly won. From the disciplinary corps came the order, "Stay close to the 'man'." The interpretive bank explained, "He breathes the air so he'll have to get to it some way." The defeated speculative bank maintained a sulky silence. Thus it was that the entire mind of the Rell rode into the interior of the ship through the airlock while clustered around Brown. The Rell had grasped that the man lived and traveled Inside his ship and the necessity for it to be air tight. But so desperate were the two races' needs that the necessity for an airlock and the consequent slight seepage each time it was used had not occured to even the interpretive bank. Inside, many Rell, suddenly intoxicated by the heady moistureladen air, commenced uniting with each other then splitting away, each such union resulting in another unit of Rell, naturally. The interpretive bank again seized control. "Stop it! Stop it this instant!" it snapped. "Reproduction must be kept to the former minimum for now. That is a firm order." Reluctantly the process was halted. The interpretive bank explained, "It would not take long for us to use up the entire supply of water if we indulged in uncontrolled reproduction. That might endanger the whole trip." "What do we do now?" the speculative bank finally asked. "There is no way of knowing positively whether the man uses this same atmosphere until he returns to his world or not. For our own safety it would seem best, since Rell-like creatures already inhabit him, that we join them. If any place is safe it will be his interior. And there is plenty of moisture within to sustain us. But we must be good parasites," the interpretive bank warned. "Remember, no undue reproduction no matter how many quarts of moisture seem to be going to waste inside this 'man'. He may need it himself and if he does not survive the ship might not complete its trip." Brown was just emerging from his space suit so the Rell chose his closest available body opening and flowed as a group into his mouth and nostrils. "Ahchoo!" sneezed Brown, violently evicting half the Rell. They re-entered a bit more cautiously in order not to irritate the sensitive membrane again, "Dammit," said Brown, "don't tell me I've caught a cold clear out here on Mars. Hope I didn't pick up any Martian germs." But he needn't have worried. By the time he reached Earth he was far less germ-ridden, even if considerably more itchy on the exterior, than when he'd left. The Rell were good at self defense and a surprising number of mindless but voracious creatures in Brown's interior had been eliminated. Brown dreaded having to give the news he carried but he needn't have. He was a conquering hero. So much fuss was made over the first flight to Mars that Congress promptly voted twice the appropriation for the second ship that the Air Force had requested, despite strong opposition from the Navy and headlines which read: Actually, as it happened, the headlines were one hundred percent correct, but they neglected to mention, chiefly because the headline writers didn't know it, that there were now two races of intelligent life on Earth.    ( Continued from page #) civil engineering. At five he started the model building which he still works at quite assiduously. At eleven he began reading everything he could lay his hands on. Then came sports. Today, model building, reading and various sports are his main hobbies. Stanley feels that he hasn't had enough experience to decide what his specialty will be in the engineering field, but he hopes to be able to get that degree before he's inducted into the Armed Services. Sirius, is Earth that has been in stasis for one hundred years. Russia and the United States are still having a cold war, the United Nations is still the hope of small nations and the debating ground for the large ones. The United States has launched a space satellite, and the other side of the moon has been explored. Venus and Mars have been reached, but society is so lethargic that only a few from the crowded Indo-Asian countries have migrated to the planets. The cities are empty of all but industry; there are overhead monorails, robot servants, brief, utilitarian clothing, visiphones, television and every sort of conceivable gadget and gimmick to make life easy. Life is dull, monotonous, calm and boring, but the drive for security is so great that adventure, excitement, tension are avoided like the plague. The story tells of the efforts of a declining race of Sirians to shock the Earth out of stasis -- and to unify it and to teach it to trade and share discoveries and so ready it for the fight against the menace from another galaxy. It's Really Sirius will appear in IF next spring. Important announcement for...  future ond bored With your pastimes -- don't despair. You've do something about it. Modern psychological testing can show you the way to a work you're best suited for. It can reveal your basic aptitudes, abilities and personality self, you can do something about changing your present and future. Do the simple tests in a few hours in your own home. Mail them to The Institute. Receive a comprehensive, confidential report by mail that may show you (as it has for so many others) the way to a better, bigger-paying job, to a happier future for yourself and your family. Get to know confidential and costs only # -- l#th of what similar in-person testing costs. But send no money -- write Illustrated by Leo Summers It was an island paradise, where you could fish and pick coconuts and be as lazy as you please. For three glorious days just the two of you could be alone and remember... three days out of a lifetime. raised himself on one elbow to look for it, but there was only the luxuriant green of the trees, pressing down to the sand. The island was a single hill, and further back, high up on the slope, the vegetation thinned. He could see the hut, surrounded by garden neatness. They had preferred to sleep on the sand. Everyone did. Jenny said: "You listening, too? It's happy, all right. You can tell that." He rolled over and smiled at her. "As long as it doesn't come right up and sneer at us, let it be happy." "I mean it, though. I never heard it sing like that before." "The air," he said. "The sunshine, sound of a breeze. So many little differences. It?s the same bird." "It's free", she said. "It's home." "It doesn't know that." They lay quietly for a few moments. As it had done last night, just before he drifted off into sleep, his hand went out to the soft sand, the fingers pushing down into its fineness. It was difficult to tell how far the action was a conscious one. Thinking of that, he sat up. The sun was well clear of the line where the two different blues met, the horizon. That was the kind of thing to remember: the open glory of sunrise. He touched Jenny's shoulder. "Swim, honey?" Her face was buried in the sand. "You go on. Be right with you." The fragile golden crust broke under his feet. He walked faster, and then began running. It was perhaps a hundred yards to the water's edge. When the first lapping wavelets were round his feet he began singing, a bawling senseless song but it filled the warm and quiet air with the sound of his voice. The ground dipped quite sharply after if entered the water, and he flung himself forward and went under. Water, all round him. The consciousness of pleasure was like being a boy again: now, in this instant, you are smoking a cigarette, kissing Abigail Summers -- any one of a dozen things long thought of, now realized. Water, water. He came splashing to the surface. Jenny was still lying, face down, on the sand. He called to her, again and again, until she sat up. She got to her feet and began to walk towards the water, but slowly, as though reluctantly. That morning he worked on the garden round the hut. Two hours' work a day were requested of the men, although, of course, there was no way of enforcing the request. He did four hours in the morning, and carried on again in the afternoon. He wondered how many others had set out to do the full six hours' work on the first day, with the intention of having the remainder of the time free. He rested in the middle of the afternoon, when the sun got really hot, but he went back to the garden again afterwards. He wondered how many had done that, too. The garden was in very good shape. Jenny, meanwhile, had been busy in the hut. It had three rooms and an annex of an uncompleted fourth. Someone, struggling perhaps with his hazy memories of carpentry, had found three days not quite long enough to achieve his projected improvement. They should have let him stay on, he thought. But if it had been he and Jenny who had been next on the list, waiting? On the tea table she had prepared the processed foods that had been familiar and monotonous and detestable for over fifteen years. He shook his head. "Throw that stuff out. We've got plenty fruit here." "No." She motioned him to sit down. "Unless we want to spend the rest of the time doubled up. Our stomachs aren't used to it. It's this they're used to." She helped him to slices of soytein, and he made no protest. She was right. The rest of the time... he wished she hadn't put it like that. The sun was getting low. When it dipped down to touch the sea, a third of the time would be gone, two days remaining. He had a swift ripple of anger that it should be only three days; just four, even, would make all the difference. Just four. "God Almighty," he said, "it's not long. Three days." She looked at him. "No." "After sixteen years." She said : "Some will have twenty five, if they live that long. And the boys..." The anger had gone now. He felt very tired; from the unaccustomed work, perhaps. "I know." "We're lucky. It might have been the typhoon season." "I'd like a typhoon. A little one." after a swim, he went back to work in the garden. Someone, quite recently, had begun an extension along the western slope. Already, in what was clearly a short time, the island's natural plant life had begun to counterattack; in another week or so the whole of the new ground would have been lost again. He set to the job of clearing it with enthusiasm, and also with relief at having something to do where time's passing would not be so much marked. After a couple of hours, he wondered where Jenny was. He realized that for some time he had not seen her moving about the hut. He looked down to the beach, to see if she had gone for a swim, but the long stretch of sand and the blue ocean were both unbroken. He called her two or three times. and got no reply. Then he put down his fork, and went to look for her. He came upon her unexpectedly, in a clearing on the other side of the hill. She did not hear his approach, and he was able to watch her, and listen to her. She was talking; to herself, he thought at first. Then he noticed the bird they had brought, on a branch quite close to her head. That surprised him -- that it should stay there while she talked, although the whole island was open to it. And yet, caged for how many generations, it might even have a need of human speech. He looked at the bird: the last of a species that gradually had ceased to breed in captivity, and so had been freed. A sterile liberty. Jenny was talking to it in an ordinary tone of voice. "... you won't be alone. There'll always be people here on the island. Here for three days, and then gone. They'll take it different ways, I guess. But whatever way they take it, it will only be three days. How long does a bird live -- your kind of bird? I'd like to think you'll still be here when the boys come. I doubt it, though." The bird stretched its wings, and she stopped speaking to look at it. It flapped to another branch, no more than a couple of feet away, and stayed there. From peg to peg, even though the cage was gone. "We saved your kind," Jenny said, "and then we kept you, and you're the last. There was talk of putting a pair here a good few years ago, but there were so few of you and they thought you could be cared for better in the City. They were wrong, but it's too late now. So you came in the boat with us. I'd rather it had been some other couple. We've set you free, and tomorrow night we go back. I'd rather it had been someone else." She looked away, towards the branches which screened him, and he instinctively lowered his head. But she had not seen him. She said to the bird: "What's it like? What's it like, being alive? I'm not alive. How can you be alive, for three days, knowing that the end's there? I don't think Fran and I will be back. We might just make it, but I don't think so." She got up. He saw her face : sad and angry and despairing, as he had never seen it before, as she had never let him see it. She put her hand on the branch, and shook it more and more vigorously until the bird took flight. "Go on!", she cried. "Live! Enjoy yourself!" The bird circled, dark against the hazy blue sky. "Live till the boys come," she said softly. He did not return to the garden. All that afternoon he lay in sight of the sea, at first in the sun's glare and then in the small patch of shade thrown on the sand by an outlying palm. The small waves rolled in and cast down their nets of lace and were gone; a thousand of them, or a hundred thousand, beside him for a time. They did not speak to each other. Out of the corner of an eye he could see her arm, and if he listened carefully he could pick her breathing out from the soft unending suspiration of the waves; but that was all. When he was aware of her getting up and heard her feet scuffing the sand as she went away, he was glad. There was all the rest of the island. Learning to live, one was alone -- learning to live after so long. It did not matter whether it was worth it or not. After so many years of unremitting usefulness it was easier to do what one was supposed to do, even here on the island. And it must be this that was intended, even though he could not think why it should be. The silence that had come between them was barely broken by the meal they had together; they exchanged the brief necessary words, with no communion either of affection or resentment. She got up from the table before he did and later, standing in front of the hut, he saw her down on the beach. She was walking by the very edge of the sea, occasionally letting the water break round her ankles. She walked slowly, preoccupied. The casualness of his own vision startled him; it was as though this were an everyday thing, as though the world had slipped from wonder into the commonplace, the blessed commonplace. That much was gained; to that extent he had begun to be alive. For Jenny he felt a rising of love: let it be the same for her, even for so short a time. He stayed up very late, watching the half moon that scored the sea with light. Jenny came back, and said "Good night" and went on into the hut. He followed her there at last. It was natural, after all, to sleep under a roof. T hey remained apart all the third day. He found the raft that someone had made, and the spears, and he went fishing. For a moment, as the raft drifted out from the shore, he felt afraid because he had provided no means of bringing it back. Then he realized that the shore was, of course, well within swimming distance. Thinking of it, he knew, too, that there had been guilt along with the fear, a guilt of desertion. Not for Jenny, or the boys, but for the City. He thought sadly: no, it isn't long enough. You don't get away as easy as that. He tried to concentrate on fishing, but he had no skill at it and caught nothing. In time another current pulled the raft in to shore. He pulled it high up, under the trees. Someone else might want it. He spent the afternoon wandering through the brush that covered the base of the island's hill. He remembered being told once -- it might be five years ago -- that there were lizards, and it began to seem important that he should see one, if possible touch it, hold that cool throbbing smallness within his hands. He only gave up hunting at the approach of sunset. Jenny was sitting outside the hut, on one of the roughly made wooden chairs. There was a second chair beside her, and he sat down in it. "I've been hunting lizards," he said. "Didn't find any. Did you see any?" She shook her head. "I remember, it was Leon Corter told me he saw lizards. I suppose they might have died out." "Why should they?" The silence between them that followed was different now. After a while he broke it. "It should have been better. I should have made it better. I'm sorry, honey." "No one's fault." They watched the sun slide over the edge of the world. Jenny said; "When we put that request in -- to let the boys come in place of us -- I hoped they would turn it down." She marvelled at herself. "I didn't really want them to have it -- our own kids." "Neither did I. But it doesn't matter. They couldn't have granted it." "Why two?", die said angrily. "Why break up a family that way?" "Why three days? You know how it is: there's only enough power to spare for the boat, and the boat won't take more than two." "Then why anything?" He said slowly: "I've been wondering about that." "What does it amount to? Three days of misery, three days of learning to look at things again, learning to be human... three days, and then... You don't think they're going to be pleasant, do you -- the next few weeks?" "Weeks? Months, years. Less than a month before we came I woke up crying, from dreaming about home, from remembering." He nodded towards the rosy sunless horizon. "We're only half-seeing things now. But we'll see that sunset as long as we live." She asked: "Has anyone refused it, ever?" He shook his head. "Not that I've heard." "I wish we'd refused it. Oh, Fran, why on... Why do they do it? why not just let us stay in the City, doing what we have to do? why this? Why force us to remember? It would have been easy enough. Not enough power, even for the boat. Why didn't they do that?" The light was being drawn from the sky. Other evenings it had seemed fantastically slow after what they had become used to; now the day fled into dusk. He said: "How long before the boys' turn? Ten years -- twelve?" "About that." "They could put a stop to it after the last of the old ones. Any excuse -- as you said, not enough power. There's never enough power. They could say: what you've never known you don't miss." "It wouldn't be fair." "What's the latest figure -- a thousand years? Near enough. A thousand years of the City. Better to forget things altogether." "No!" she said quickly. There was a pause of silence between them, a silence of two people and one bird on an island. "I guess they know what they're doing. They could have warned us, though." "No, they couldn't. We wouldn't have believed them, would we?" She said softly: "But such pain..." "Pain makes you remember," he said. "We've got to remember." He took her arm. "It's due. Better be getting ready, old girl." T he new people were both women, friends and spinsters; (Continued on page #) Illustrated by Ed Emsh Poor Riuku!... Not being a member of the human race, how was he supposed to understand what goes on in a womans mind when the male of the same species didn't even know? orbit of Mars the two aliens sat looking at each other. "No," Riuku said. "I haven't had any luck. And I can tell you right now that I'm not going to have any, and no one else is going to have any either. The Earthmen are too well shielded." "You contacted the factory?" Nagor asked. "Easily. It's the right one. The parking lot attendant knows there's a new weapon being produced in there. The waitress at the Jumbo Burger Grill across the street knows it. Everybody I reached knows it. But not one knows anything about what it is." Nagor looked out through the ports of the spaceship, which didn't in the least resemble an Earth spaceship, any more than what Nagor considered sight resembled the corresponding Earth sense perception. He frowned. "What about the research scientists? We know who some of them are. The supervisors? The technicians?" "No," Riuku said flatly. "They're shielded. Perfectly I can't make contact with a single mind down there that has the faintest inkling of what's going on. We never should have let them develop the shield." "Have you tried contacting everyone? What about the workers?" "Shielded. All ten thousand of them. Of course I haven't checked all of thefti yet, but -- " "Do it," Nagor said grimly. "We've got to find out what that weapon is. Or else get out of this solar system." Riuku sighed. "I'll try," he said. in the juke box, and the theremins started in on Mare Indrium Mary for the tenth time since Pete Ganley had come into the bar. "Aw shut up," he said, wishing there was some way to turn them off. Twelveten. Alice got off work at Houston's at twelve. She ought to be here by now. She would be, if it weren't Thursday. Shield boosting night for her. Why, he asked himself irritably, couldn't those scientists figure out some way to keep the shields up longer than a week? Or else why didn't they have boosting night the same for all departments? He had to stay late every Friday and Alice every Thursday, and all the time there was Susan at home ready to jump him if he wasn't in at a reasonable time... "Surprised, Pete?" Alice Hendricks said at his elbow. He swung about, grinned at her. "Am I? You said it. And here I was about to go. I never thought you'd make it before one." His grin faded a little. "How'd you do it? Sweettalk one of the guards into letting you in at the head of the line?" She shook her bandanaed head, slid onto the stool beside him and crossed her knees -- a not very convincing sign of femininity in a woman wearing baggy denim coveralls. "Aren't you going to buy me a drink, honey?" "Oh, sure." He glanced over at the bartender. "Another beer. No, make it two." He pulled the five dollars out of his pocket, shoved it across the bar, and looked back at Alice, more closely this time. The ID badge, pinned to her hip. The badge, with her name, number, department, and picture -- and the little meter that measured the strength of her Mind Shield. The dial should have pointed to full charge. It didn't. It registered about seventy per cent loss. Alice followed his gaze. She giggled. "It was easy," she said. "The guards don't do more than glance at us, you know. And everyone who's supposed to go through Shielding on Thursday has the department number stamped on a yellow background. So all I did was make a red background, like yours, and slip it on in the restroom at Clean-up time." "But Alice... Pete Ganley swallowed his beer and signaled for another. "This is serious. You've got to keep the shields up. The enemy is everywhere. Why, right now, one could be probing you." "So what? The dial isn't down to Danger yet. And tomorrow I'll just put the red tag back on over the yellow one and go through Shielding in the same line with you. They won't notice." She giggled again. "I thought it was smart, Petey. You oughta think so too. You know why I did it, don't you?" Her round, smooth face looked up at him, wide-eyed and fulllipped. She had no worry wrinkles like Susan's, no mouth pulled down at the comers like Susan's, and under that shapeless coverall... "Sure, baby. I'm glad you did it," Pete Ganley said huskily. Riuku was glad too, the next afternoon when the swing shift started pouring through the gates. It was easy, once he'd found her. He had tested hundreds, all shielded, some almost accessible to him, but none vulnerable enough. Then this one came. The shield was so far down that contact was almost easy. Painful, tiring, but not really difficult. He could feel her momentary sense of alarrn, of nausea, and then he was through, integrated with her, his thoughts at home with her thoughts. He rested, inside her mind. "Oh, hi, Joan. No, I'm all right. Just a little dizzy for a moment. A hangover? Of course not. Not on a Friday." Riuku listened to her half of the conversation. Stupid Earthman. If only she'd start thinking about the job. Or if only his contact with her were better. If he could use her sense perceptions, see through her eyes, hear through her ears, feel through her fingers, then everything would be easy. But he couldn't. All he could do was read her thoughts. Earth thoughts at that... The time clock. Where's my card? Oh, here it is. Only #:#. Why did I have to hurry so? I had lots of time... "Why, Mary, how nice you look today. That's a new hairdo, isn't it? A permanent? Yeah, what kind?"... What a microbe! Looks like pink straw, her hair does, and of course she thinks it's beautiful... "I'd better get down to my station. Old Liverlips will be ranting again. You oughta be glad you have Eddie for a lead man. Eddie's cute. So's Dave, over in #. But Liverlips, ugh...  She was walking down the aisle to her station now. A procession of names : Maisie, and Edith, and that fat slob Natalie, and if Jean Andrews comes around tonight flashing that diamond in my face again, ril -- ril kill her... "Oh hello, Clinton. What do you mean, late? The whistle just blew. Of course Fm ready to go to work." Liverlips, that"s what you are. And still in that same blue shirt. What a wife you must have. Probably as sloppy as you are... Good, Riuku thought. Now she'll be working. Now he'd find out whatever it was she was doing. Not that it would be important, of course, but let him learn what her job was, and what those other girls' jobs were, and in a little while he'd have all the data he needed. Maybe even before the shift ended tonight, before she went through the Shielding boost. He shivered a little, thinking of the boost. He'd survive it, of course. He'd be too well integrated with her by then. But it was nothing to look forward to. Still, he needn't worry about it. He had the whole shift to find out what the weapon was. The whole shift, here inside Alice's mind, inside the most closely guarded factory on or under or above the surface of the Earth. He settled down and waited, expectantly. Alice Hendricks turned her back on the lead man and looked down the work table to her place. The other girls were there already. Lois and Marge and Coralie, the other three members of the Plug table. Line #. "Hey, how'd you make out?" Marge said. She glanced around to make sure none of the lead men or timekeepers were close enough to overhear her, then went on. "Did you get away with it?" "Sure," Alice said. "And you should of seen Pete's face when I walked in." She took the soldering iron out of her locker, plugged it in, and reached out for the pan of #I wires. "You know, it's funny. Pete's not so good looking, and he's sort of a careless dresser and all that, but oh, what he does to me." She filled the #I plug with solder and reached for the white, black, red wire. "You'd better watch out," Lois said. "Or Susan's going to be doing something to you." "Oh, her." Alice touched the tip of the iron to the solder filled pin, worked the wire down into position. "What can she do? Pete doesn't give a damn about her." "He's still living with her, isn't he?" Lois said. Alice shrugged... What a mealymouthed little snip Lois could be, sometimes. You'd think to hear her that she was better than any of them, and luckier too, with her Joe and the kids. What a laugh! Joe was probably the only guy who'd ever looked at her, and she'd hooked him right out of school, and now with three kids in five years and her working nights... Alice finished soldering the first row of wires in the plug and started in on the second. So old Liverlips thought she wasted time, did he? Well, she'd show him. She'd get out her sixteen plugs tonight. "Junior kept me up all night last night," Lois said. "He's cutting a tooth." "Yeah," Coralie said. "It's pretty rough at that age. I remember right after Mike was born... Don't they ever think of anything but their kids? Alice thought. She stopped listening to them. She heard Pete's voice again, husky and sending little chills all through her, and his face came between her and the plug and the white green wire she was soldering. His face, with those blue eyes that went right through a girl and that little scar that quirked up the comer of his mouth... "Oh oh," Alice said suddenly. "I've got solder on the outside of the pin." She looked around for the alcohol. Riuku probed. Her thoughts were easy enough to read, but just try to translate them into anything useful... He probed deeper. The plugs she was soldering. He could get a good picture of them, of the wires, of the harness lacing that Coralie was doing. But it meant nothing. They could be making anything. Radios, monitor units, sound equipment. Only they weren't. They were making a weapon, and this bit of electronic equipment was part of that weapon. What part? What did the #I plug do? Alice Hendricks didn't know. Alice Hendricks didn't care. The first break. Ten minutes away from work. Alice was walking back along the aisle that separated Assembly from the men's Machine Shop. A chance, perhaps. She was looking at the machines, or rather past them, at the men. "Hello, Tommy. How's the love life?" He's not bad at all. Real cute. Though not like Pete, oh no. The machines. Riuku prodded at her thoughts, wishing he could influence them, wishing that just for a moment he could see, hear, feel, think as she would never think. The machines w'ere -- machines. That big funny one where Ned works, and Tommy's spot welder, and over in the corner where the superintendent is -- he's a snappy dresser, tie and everything. The corner. Restricted area. Can't go over. High voltage or something... Her thoughts slid away from the restricted area. Should she go out for lunch or eat off the sandwich machine? And Riuku curled inside her mind and cursed her with his rapidly growing Earthwoman's vocabulary. At the end of the shift he had learned nothing. Nothing about the weapon, that is. He had found out a good deal about the sex life of Genus Homo -- information that made him even more glad than before that his was a one-sexed race. put away and Alice in the restroom gleefully thinking about the red Friday night tag she was slipping onto her ID badge, he was as far from success as ever. For a moment he considered leaving her, looking for another subject. But he'd probably not be able to find one. No, the only thing to do was stay with her, curl deep in her mind and go through the Shielding boost, and later on... The line. Alice's nervousness... Oh, oh, there's that guy with the meter -- the one from maintenance. What's he want? "Whaddya mean, my shield's low? How could it be?"...If he checks the tag I'll be fired for sure. It's a lot of nonsense anyway.The enemy is everywhere, they keep telling us. Whoever saw one of them? "No, honest, I didn't notice anything. Can I help it if... It's okay, huh? It'll pass..." Down to fifteen per cent, the guy said. Well, that's safe, I guess. Whew. "Oh, hello, Paula. Whatcha talking about, what am I doing here tonight? Shut up..." And then, in the midst of her thoughts, the pain, driving deep into Riuku, twisting at him, wrenching at him, until there was no consciousness of anything at all. He struggled back. He was confused, and there was blankness around him, and for a moment he thought he'd lost contact altogether. Then he came into focus again. Alice's thoughts were clearer than ever suddenly. He could feel her emotions; they were a part of him now. He smiled. The Shielding boost had helped him. Integration -- much more complete integration than he had ever known before. "But Pete, honey," Alice said. "What did you come over to the gate for? You shouldn't of done it." "Why not? I wanted to see you." "What if one of Susan's pals sees us?" "So what? I'm getting tired of checking in every night, like a baby. Besides, one of her pals did see us, last night, at the bar." Fear. What'll she do? Susan's a hellcat. I know she is. But maybe Pete'll get really sick and tired of her. He looks it. He looks mad. I'd sure hate to have him mad at me... "Let's go for a spin, baby. Outin the suburbs somewhere. How about it?" "Well -- why sure, Pete..." Sitting beside him in the copter. All alone up here. Real romantic, like something on the video. But I shouldn't with him married, and all that. It's not right. But it's different, with Susan such a mean thing. Poor Petey... Riuku prodded. He found it so much easier since the Shielding boost. If only these Earthmen were more telepathic, so that they could be controlled directly. Still, perhaps with this new integration he could accomplish the same results. He prodded again. "Pete," Alice said suddenly. "What are we working on, anyway?" "What do you mean, working on?" He frowned at her. "At the plant. All I ever do is sit there soldering plugs, and no one ever tells me what for." "Course not. You're not supposed to talk about any part of the job except your own. You know that. The slip of a lip -- " "Can cost Earth a ship. I know. Quit spouting poster talk at me, Pete Ganley. The enemy isn't even human. And there aren't any around here." Pete looked over at her. She was pouting, the upper lip drawn under the lower. Someone must have told her that was cute. Well, so what -- it was cute. "What makes you think I know anything more than you do?" he said. "Well, gee." She looked up at him, so near to her in the moonlight that she wondered why she wanted to talk about the plant anyway. "You're in Final Assembly, aren't you? You check the whatsits before they go out." "Sure," he said. No harm in telling her. No spies now, not in this kind of war. Besides, she was too dumb to know anything. "It's a simple enough gadget," Pete Ganley said. "A new type of force field weapon that the enemy can't spot until it hits them. They don't even know there's an Earth Bingo!... She drank it in, and in her mind Riuku did too. Wonderful integration, wonderful. Partial thought control. And now, he'd learn the secret... "You really want to know how it works?" Pete Ganley said. When she nodded he couldn't help grinning. "Well, it's analogous to the field set up by animal neurones, in a way. You've just got to damp that field, and not only damp it but blot it out, so that the frequency shows nothing at all there, and then -- well, that's where those Corcoran assemblies you're soldering on come in. You produce the field... Alice Hendricks listened. For some reason she wanted to listen. She was really curious about the field. But, gee, how did he expect her to understand all that stuff? He sounded like her algebra teacher, or was it chemistry. Lord, how she'd hated school. Maybe she shouldn't of quit... Corcoran fields. E and IR and nine-space something or other. She'd never seen Pete like this before. He looked real different. Sort of like a professor, or something, tie must be real smart. And so -- well, not good-looking especially but, well, appealing. Real SA, he had... "So that's how it works," Pete Ganley said. "Quite a weapon, against them. It wouldn't work on a human being, of course." She was staring at him dreamy-eyed. He laughed. "Silly, I bet you haven't understood a word I said." "I have too." "Liar." He locked the automatic pilot on the copter and held out his arms. "Come here, you." "Oh, Petey... Who cared about the weapon? He was right, even if she wouldn't admit it. She hadn't even listened, hardly. She hadn't understood. And neither had Riuku. Riuku waited until she'd fallen soundly asleep that night before he tried contacting Nagor. He'd learned nothing useful. He'd picked up nothing in her mind except more thoughts of Pete, and gee, maybe someday they'd get married, if he only had guts enough to tell Susan where to get off... But she was asleep at last. Riuku was free enough of her thoughts to break contact, partially of course, since if he broke it completely he wouldn't be able to get back through the Shielding. It was hard enough to reach out through it. He sent a painful probing feeler out into space, to the spot where Nagor and the others waited for his report. "Nagor..." "Riuku? Is that you?" "Yes. I've got a contact. A girl. But I haven't learned anything yet that can help us." "Louder, Riuku. I can hardly hear you... no Make Sure You Don't Miss an Issue of Science Fiction Magazine" is the growing-est science fiction magazine in America because every issue sparkles with new ideas and entertainment!... The finest fiction and features by the finest writers!... The best artwork by the best artists!... The finest paper and the finest printing by far! . , . That's why readers everywhere are calling it "America's most interesting science fiction magazine"... But why not see for yourself? You risk nothing! We will send you -- All you have to do is mail the handy subscription form below. We will then send you your first issue at once -- IF Magazine, Kingston, New York Enclosed find # (check or money order) for which please send me IF Magazine for the next # months. It is understood that the first issue is a know and you will return the full subscription price at once! on trial! If you do not enjoy every minute of it, just let us know and we will refund your money at once! If you DO like it (which we are sure you will) we will send you the next # issues fresh off the press -- which means you get # issues in all for the regular # subscription price, saving you #! Mail the Alice Hendricks stirred in her sleep. The dream images slipped through her subconscious, almost waking her, beating against Riuku. Pete, baby, you shouldn't be like that... Riuku cursed the bisexual species in their own language. "Riuku!" Nagor's call was harsh, urgent. "You've got to find out. We haven't much time. We lost three more ships today, and there wasn't a sign of danger. No Earthman nearby, no force fields, nothing. You've got to find out why." Those ships just disappeared. Riuku forced his way up through the erotic dreams of Alice Hendricks. "I know a little," he said. "They damp their thought waves somehow, and keep us from spotting the Corcoran field." "Corcoran field? What's that?" "I don't know." Alice's thoughts washed over him, pulling him back into complete integration, away from Nagor, into a medley of heroic Petes with gleaming eyes and clutching hands and good little Alices pushing them away -- for the moment. "But surely you can find out through the girl," Nagor insisted from far away, almost out of phase altogether. "No, Pete!" Alice Hendricks said aloud. "Riuku, you're the only one of us with any possible sort of contact. You've got to find out, if we're to stay here at all." "Well," Alice Hendricks thought, "maybe..." Riuku cursed her again, in the lingua franca of a dozen systems. Nagor's voice faded. Riuku switched back to English. #:#. Jean's diamond again... Wish it would choke her; she's got a horsey enough face for it to. Where's old Liverlips? Don't see him around. Might as well go to the restroom for a while... That's it, Riuku thought. Get her over past the machine shop, over by that Restricted Area. There must be something there we can go on... "Hello, Tommy," Alice Hendricks said. "How's the love life?" "It could be better if someone I know would, uh, cooperate..." She looked past him, toward the corner where the big panels were with all the dials and the meters and the chart that was almost like the kind they drew pictures of earthquakes on. What was it for, anyway? And why couldn't anyone go over to it except those longhairs? High voltage her foot... "What're you looking at, Alice?" Tommy said. "Oh, that." She pointed. "Wonder what it's for? It doesn't look like much of anything, really." "I wouldn't know. I've got something better to look at." "Oh, you!" Compared to Pete, he didn't have anything, not anything at all... Pete. Gee, he must of got home awful late last night. Wonder what Susan said to him. Why does he keep taking her lip, anyway? Riuku waited. He prodded. He understood the Restricted Area as she understood it -- which was not at all. Pie found out some things about the #I plugs -- that a lot of them were real crummy ones the fool day shift girls had set up wrong, and besides she'd rather solder on the #l#'s any day. He got her talking about the weapon again, and he found out what the other girls thought about it... Nothing. Except where else could you get twelve-fifty an hour soldering? She was stretched out on the couch in the restroom lobby taking a short nap -- on company time, old Liverlips being tied up with the new girls down at the other end of the line -- when Riuku finally managed to call Nagor again. "Have you found out anything, Riuku?" "Not yet." Silence. Then: "We've lost another ship. Maybe you'd better turn her loose and come on back. It looks as if we'll have to run for it, after all." Defeat. The long, interstellar search for another race, a race less technologically advanced than this one, and all because of a stupid Earth female. "Not yet, Nagor," he said. "Her boy friend knows. I'll find out. I'll make her listen to him." "Well," Nagor said doubtfully. "All right. But hurry. We haven't much time at all." "I'll hurry," Riuku promised. "I'll be back with you tonight." That night after work Pete Ganley was waiting outside the gate again. Alice spotted his copter right away, even though he had the lights turned way down. "Gee, Pete, I didn't think... "Get in. Quick." "What's the matter?" She climbed in beside him. He didn't answer until the copter had lifted itself into the air, away from the factory landing lots and the bright overhead lights and the homebound workers. "It's Susan, who else," he said grimly. "She was really sounding off today. She kept saying she had a lot of evidence and I'd better be careful. And, well, I sure didn't want you turning up at the bar tonight of all nights." He didn't sound like Pete. "Why?" Alice said. "Are you afraid she'll divorce you?" "Oh, Alice, you're as bad as -- look, baby, don't you see? It would be awful for you. All the publicity, the things she'd call you, maybe even in the papers..." He was staring straight ahead, his hands locked about the controls. He was sort of -- well, distant. Not her Petey any more. Someone else's Pete. Susan's Pete... "I think we should be more careful," he said. Riuku twisted his way through her thoughts, tried to push them down... Does he love me, he's got to love me, sure he does, he just doesn't want me to get hurt... And far away, almost completely out of phase, Nagor's call. "Riuku, another ship's gone. You'd better come back. Bring what you've learned so far and we can withdraw from the system and maybe piece it together... "In a little while. Just a little while." Stop thinking about Susan, you biological schizo. Change the subject. You'll never get anything out of that man by having hysterics... "I suppose," Alice cried bitterly, "you've been leading me on all the time. You don't love me. You'd rather have her!" "That's not so. Hell, baby... He's angry. He's not even going to kiss me. I'm just cutting my own throat when I act like that... "Okay, Pete. I'm sorry. I know it's tough on you. Let's have a drink, okay? Still got some in the glove compartment?" "Huh? Oh, sure." She poured two drinks, neat, and he swallowed his with one impatient gulp. She poured him another. made his job easier. Alice's thoughts calmed, swirled away from Susan and what am I going to do and why didn't I pick up with some single guy, anyway? A single guy, like Tommy maybe. Tommy and his spot welder, over there by the Restricted Area. The Restricted Area... "Pete." "Yeah, baby?" "How come they let so much voltage loose in the plant, so we can't even go over in the Restricted Area?" "Whatever made you think of that?" He laughed suddenly. He turned to her, still laughing. He was the old Pete again, she thought, with his face happy and his mouth quirked up at the corner. "Voltage loose... oh, baby, baby. Don't you know what that is?" "No. What?" "That's the control panel for one of the weapons, silly. It's only a duplicate, actually -- a monitor station. But it's tuned to the frequencies of all the ships in this sector and -- " She listened. She wanted to listen. She had to want to listen, now. "Nagor, I'm getting it," Riuku called. "I'll bring it all back withr me. Just a minute and I'll have it." "How does it work, honey?" Alice Hendricks said. "You really want to know? Okay. Now the Corcoran field is generated between the ships and areas like that one, only a lot more powerful, by -- " "It's coming through now, Nagor." " -- a very simple power source, once you get the basics of it. You -- oh, oh!" He grabbed her arm. "Duck, Alice!" A spotlight flashed out of the darkness, turned on them, outlined them. A siren whirred briefly, and then another copter pulled up beside them and a loudspeaker blared tinnily. "Okay, bud, pull down to the landing lane." The police. Police. Fear, all the way through Alice's thoughts, all the way through Riuku. Police. Earth law. That meant -- it must mean he'd been discovered, that they had some other means of protection besides the Shielding... "Nagor! I've been discovered!" "Come away then, you fool!" He twisted, trying to pull free of Alice's fear, away from the integration of their separate terrors. But he couldn't push her thoughts back from his. She was too frightened. He was too frightened. The bond held. "Oh, Pete, Pete, what did you do?" He didn't answer. He landed the copter, stepped out of it, walked back to the other copter that was just dropping down behind him. "But officer, what's the matter?" Alice Hendricks huddled down in the seat, already seeing tomorrow's papers, and her picture, and she wasn't really photogenic, either... And then, from the other copter, she heard the woman laugh. "Pete Ganley, you fall for anything, don't you?" "Susan!" "You didn't expect me to follow you, did you? Didn't it ever occur to you that detectives could put a bug in your copter? My, what we've been hearing!" "Yeah," the detective who was driving said. "And those pictures we took last night weren't bad either." "Susan, I can explain everything... "I'm sure you can, Pete. You always try. But as for you -- you little -- " Alice ducked down away from her. Pictures. Oh God, what it would make her look like. Still, this hag with the pinched up face who couldn't hold a man with all the xosmetics in the drugstore to camouflage her -- she had her nerve, yelling like that. "Yeah, and I know a lot about you too!" Alice Hendricks cried. "Why, let me get my hands on you... "Riuku!" Riuku prodded. Calm down, you fool". You're not gaining anything this way. Calm down, so I can .get out of here... Alice Hendricks stopped yelling abruptly. "That's better," Susan said. "Pete, your taste in women gets worse each time. I don't know why I always take you back." "I can explain everything." "Oh, Pete," Alice Hendricks whispered. "Petey, you're not -- " "Sure he is," Susan Ganley said. "He's coming with me. The nice detectives will take you home, dear. But I don't think you'd better try anything with them -- they're not your type. They're single." "Pete... But he wouldn't meet Alice's eyes. And when Susan took his arm, he followed her. "How could you do it, Petey... Numb whispers, numb thoughts, over and over, but no longer frightened, no longer binding on Riuku. Fools, he thought. Idiotic Earthmen. If it weren't for your ridiculous reproductive habits I'd have found out everything. As it is... "Nagor, I'm coming! I didn't get anything. This woman -- " "Well, come on then. We're leaving. Right now. There'll be other systems." Petey, Petey, Petey... Contact thinned as he reached out away from her, toward Nagor, toward the ship. He fought his way out through the Shielding, away from her and her thoughts and every detestable thing about her. Break free, break free... "What's the matter, Riuku? Why don't you come? Have the police caught you?" The others were fleeing, getting farther away even as he listened to Nagor's call. Contact was hard to maintain now; he could feel communication fading. "Riuku, if you don't come now..." He fought, but Alice's thoughts were still with him; Alice's tears still kept bringing him back into full awareness of her. "Riuku!" "I -- I can't!" The Shielding boost, that had integrated him so completely with Alice Hendricks, would never let him go. "Oh, Petey, I've lost you..." And Nagor's sad farewell slipped completely out of phase, leaving him alone, with her. The plant. The Restricted Area. The useless secret of Earth's now unneeded weapon. Alice Hendricks glancing past it, at the spot welding machine, at Tommy. "How's the love life?" "You really interested in finding out, Alice?" "Well -- maybe -- " And Riuku gibbered unheard in her mind.    I dumped into the seas and rivers has long been a sore point with  I chemists. They insisted that a way should be found to convert  I garbage into topsoil and so feed valuable materials back to the  I land. I I Now, Bernard Haldane, member of the faculty at Wagner  I College on Staten Island, New York City, has demonstrated  I equipment that does the trick; and does it automatically and sim I ply and cheaply. The garbage is dumped into the topmost of a  I series of tanks, is ground up (tin cans and bottles included), in I noculated with bacteria, then mi.xed and aerated by being turned  I over. It then flows by gravity to lower tanks as the bacteria mul I tiply and digest it at ever increasing temperatures. In the lowest  I tank the heat is high enough to kill disease-causing bacteria. The  I loamy end-product, which is an excellent topsoil and smells like  I good earth after a rain, can be removed through a trap door in  I the lowest tank. The entire process completely does away with  I hand labor.  I Any big city -- such as New York, Chicago, Philadelphia, etc. --  I could deal with its garbage in this new way for less than # a  I ton. In New York City it would mean an annual saving of  I #. Equipment for incineration costs approximately  I #, while digestion and conversion equipment for the same  I amount of garbage disposal would cost about one-half that  I amount.  I Our Citation this month goes to Mr. Haldane for solving not  I one but two economic problems of today's civilization: Econom I ical garbage disposal, which has always been a headache in con I gested areas all over America, and the return to the soil of valu I able organic materials which may help to lick the problem of soil  I erosion and enervation now going on.  they knew them slightly. There was the same nervousness, the same forced jokes. "How's the City?" "Still spreading. The coconuts ripe?" "Watch out for sharks." They were glad when the transfer had been made, when it was time to go. There was no moon yet, but all the stars, and the dim water lapping round them. She said, her voice sharp: "It's funny no one ever rebels, refuses to go back." He was attending to the controls. "We're hand-picked, remember? And what good, would it do?" "No good." She turned away. "I've finished looking." He thrust the control forward. The jets began to hammer against the glassy sea; the boat shivered and lifted. The island had remained green only because it was poised mid-way between the two great continents. It was several seconds before they were high enough to see them -- Africa and America, burning, burning, and beyond them Europe and Asia and Australasia, all burning. A scarlet glow of death. Ahead of them lay the City, in the lip of Tycho's crater on the barren sheltering Moon.    "I just wanted to be alone to die." Now it was the eiiemy agent's turn to speak bitterly. "Then you planned it all along. You led our men on, pretending you were going to aid us while you were in our midst learning everything about us to destroy us. "You finally found the method, God knows where you dug up that fiendish idea of sulphuric gas, but you planned and watched. I'll never know how you were so lucky -- and it was pure luck, but you did it. You destroyed our base." With a smile, "Yes, I was lucky, I had a chance to end my life in a final battle and victory. That's all a man can ask for." Aron was still smiling when the blast of the Intelligence man's gun blew his head off. As he left the station, all the agent could think of was one phrase he had heard many times jokingly; but now it became a grim accompaniment for his footsteps. Though he didn't want to hear it, it kept whispering through his mind every few seconds. "Live fast, fight hard, die young -- and have a radiation-rotted corpse." Two hours later the United Empire fleet landed on Kligor. They came to claim the sixty ships lying waiting -- waiting -- in the peaceful valley that was still tainted with the smell of chlorine.    Chemical firms of the future may "employ" microbes as helpers. Laboratory research has shown that if the lakes in the hot desert could be contaminated with the right kind of sewage or "broth" and stocked with specially cultivated sulphur producing bacteria the process of building up sulphur deposits could be speeded up to six times faster than it takes to do it naturally. With such a .system in full swing, large scale sulphur production would be an accomplished fact. The "weather makers" predicted for tomorrow's generations may need no more than common table salt to provide rain when necessary. Intensive studies have indicated that there is a strong possibility that natural salt particles in the air are the rain-making agents. Tests are now going on to determine whether clouds seeded with salt will actually produce precipitation. The relationship of light to life has long been known, but recent discoveries point to it as becoming the key to farm crop control. The correct use and management of radiant energy in the interest of better crops and better market timing has already proved of considerable worth. Electric lights and a home generator may soon be as important to the farmer of the future as the seeds and fertilizer. The Antarctic continent, where the edges haven't been completely mapped and the interior is unknown and unexplored, may be the "last frontier" for the pioneers of the next twenty years. At least one expedition is being planned for # or #; and a bill to finance it has already been introduced to Congress. The automobile driver on the highways of tomorrow very likely will find that all cars are two-tone, and of only two colors -- blue and yellow. Studies by traffic and safety engineers have proved that the accident rate could be greatly reduced if this idea were to be adopted. These two colors are more visible against varying backgrounds than any others. The darker blue is good for daylight and fog conditions; and the yellow is the color most readily seen at night. Plastic pillows filled with helium and joined together to make a milehigh floating dome may "weather condition" communities of the future. Such a dome covering would provide year-round sub-tropical weather without rain or bugs. The sun's light and heat would penetrate (with harmful rays filtered out), and rain pouring off the edges would be caught to provide a pure water supply for all purposes. Fishing with electricity may revolutionize the commercial fishing industry. Scientists in Germany and Russia have shown that almost all types of food fish can be attracted by electric currents out in the open sea. American trawlers, equipped with electricity producing gadgets and, nets are now conducting trials to test and measure the catches against pre-electric fishing. Harvesting cattails may some day be a profitable business for farmers who own a piece of swamp land. Nearly a dozen by-products of this "weed" have been found in recent laboratory research. The root can be eaten "as is", or dried and ground into a flour for baking. The flour can also be fermented to produce ethyl alcohol for anti-freeze, medicinal purposes, and as an industrial solvent. The stem fibers when extracted are as useful as jute for making string, burlap, webbing, or for stuffing furniture. The seeds yield an oil very similar to linseed oil and equally as useful; and after the oils have been extracted the meal made from the seeds makes excellent cattle or chicken feed. Ten years from now, or earlier, electricity will be commercially produced from uranium at a cost that is less than that of the coal-fueled power now in use. The development of a new boiling reactor has proved that costs will be reduced to a total of # mills an hour in contrast with the #I mills it now costs for coal powered electricity. Surgeons of the future may have robot helpers instead of the human team they now have when they operate. A new type of electronic "brain" has been designed which instead of making computations from facts and figures fed into it, picks up its own facts from the unconscious patient's body and relays them to the surgeon. Records of blood pressure, pulse rate, breathing rate and volume of air exhaled per minute are taken continuously, and indicated in such a manner that the surgeon or anesthesiologist can interpret the situation at a glance. New cars may be coming off the production lines a great deal faster than they do now, and they may be a good deal cheaper too. A tough new plastic has been introduced which requires only three or four .weeks to be made into dies for automobile parts. The steel dies now in use need three to eight months of work before they can be used and cost thirty to seventy per cent more than the new plastic dies. # -- ##. # -- #. # -- Alcor. # -- photons. # -- methane. # -- eight. # -- ##ths. #I -- #. # -- transit. # -- Mars. # -- Betelgeuse, # -- #. # -- ## of a second. # -- Lithium. # -- yellow. # -- Messier #. # -- thermonuclear. Why were these men great? How does anyone -- man or woman -- achieve greatness? Is it not by mastery of the powers within ourselves ? Know the mysterious world within you ! Attune yourself to the wisdom of the ages! Grasp the inner power of your mind ! Learn the secrets of a full and peaceful life ! Benjamin Franklin, statesman and inventor... Isaac Newton, discoverer of the Law of Gravitation... Francis Bacon, philosopher and scientist... like many other learned and great men and women... were Rosicmcians. The Rosicrucians existence for cenmries. Today, headquarters of of mail annually to all parts of the world. eonfinued from bock over lected from Fantasy and Science l'Iction Muxaziue. The woman who became her own daughter... gambling on a strange planet -- See description on back cover. top stories by outstanding authors... stories of Wonders of I'-artli and Man... inventions... of visitors from " Outer Space ... AclftrV# entllre in Dimension # ,... W'orlds of TornorII 'w W row. # Images. 'riling that becomes whatever it meets. Plus many other best tales skimmed from a dozen years of Astounding Science-Fiction lagazine by its editor, John W. Campbell. Jr. fay Hal Clement -- Charles the planet Mesklin. But  the force of gravity there is so powerful the planet is squeezed almost flat -- and a fall of even a few inches can crush a human body to powder! by Itaoc Asimov -- Robots are the most hated creatures on earth. VW Then a noted robot  c scientist is murdered. Detective Baley has to track down the killer. And -- he's given a robot as a partner! ''V Angelo lontevecchio 'if'T' can destroy the Earth -- or he can save it. But it's not up to him to Martians, posing as earthmen, have him in their power H Tucker -- Paul Breen jn S' one-man secret weapon! From his hideout he could read the minds of enemy agents anywhere on earth! Then he got a brain wave that he was about to be killed... not McIntosh -- The strange story of the last rocket ship to leave doomed Earth -- and the wouldbe dictator who couldn't find the people he was trying to conquer! Please rush me the # books clincked below, as my gift books and first selection. Bill me only I for all tliree (plus small shipping charge), and enroll me as a member of the Science-Fiction Book Club. l- er # month send me the Club's free bulletin, "Things to Come." so that I may decide whether or not I w ish TO receive the corning monthly selection described therein. For each book I accept, I will pay only I plus small shipping i-liaigc. I do not have to take a book every month (only four during each  eaiI am a member) -- and I may re.sign at any time after accepting four selections. tills membership will be cancelled I I  Astounding Anthology LJ Dost from Fantasy  Science Fiction Q Dorn Leader Q Coves of Steel Q Mirror for Observers Q Mission of Gravity Q Omnibus Q Wild Talent Name Selection price in Canada # plus shipping. Address Science-Fiction Club, # Bond St., Toronto #. (Offer good only in U. S, and Canada). Welcome to the World of Tom orrow ! Y OU'UK a high school physics teacher. You've just stumbled on a way to get atomic power from ordinary beans. One bean can run a washing machine for five yt'ars! It's fantastic -- rfO fantastic you can't get anyone to believe you of these new mosterpleces of O# of these rocket-swift, jetfor only #! Each one is cranitned with science thrills of (he future... packed with theiniagination that will make tomorrow'! headlines. A # to # value -- yours for only # on this amazing offer I Now -- The Cream of New ScienceFiction Books -- For Only SI Each! month the best new ScieneeF'iction book. And the Club isrings you these hraiul-new, full-length, full-size book.# (plus small sliipping charge) -- even though they cost #...#. #.# and up in publishers' original editions! You need only take four books a year. Just Mail Coupon enjoy iuember.ship in this unusTjal new book club. To  this amazing offer to new menibers! Yoiir choice of Fiction masterpieces -- AT offer may have to l)C withdrawn at any lime. So mail coupon (on other siile of Oepf. IF-#, Garden City. New York.  By Charles Beaumont r W I i I effected a safe landing on Hermes. Engineers will probe it for possible valuable ores and minerals. Earth is seen in the distance. Spherical or irregular in shape, asteroids are supposed to have their origin in the break-ups or explosions of larger planets. Earth's chances of being struck by one of the thousands of asteroids which whirl through our solar system are infinitesimal. you're that man, here's something that will interest you. Not a magic formula -- not a get-rich-quick scheme -- but something more substantial, more practical. Of course, you need something more than just the desire to be an accountant. You've got to pay Still, wouldn't it be worth your while to sacrifice some of your leisure in favor of interesting home study -- over a comparatively brief period? Always provided that the rewards were good -- a salary of # to #? An accountant's duties are interesting, varied and of real worth to his employers. He has standing! Do you feel that such things aren't for you? Well, don't be too sure. Very possibly they can be! Why not, like so many before you, investigate LaSalle's modern Problem Method of training for an accountancy, position? Just suppose you were permitted to work in a large accounting house under the personal supervision of an expert accountant. Suppose, with his aid, you studied accounting principles and solved problems day by day -- easy ones at first -- then more difficult ones. If you could do this -- and could turn to him for advice as the problems became complex -- soon you'd master them all. That's the training you follow in principle under the LaSalle Problem Method. You cover accountancy from the basic Principles right up through Accountancy Systems and Income Tax Procedure. Then you add C. P. A. Training and prepare for the C. P. A. examinations. As you go along, you absorb the principles of Auditing, Cost Accounting, Business Law, Statistical Control, Organization, Management and Finance. Your progress is as speedy as you care to make it -- depending on your own eagerness to learn and the time you spend in study. Will recognition come? The only answer, as you know, is that success does come to the man who is really trained. It's possible your employers will notice your improvement in a very few weeks or months. Indeed, many LaSalle graduates have paid for their training -- with increased earnings -- before they have completed it! For accountants, who are trained in organization and management, are the executives of the future. Send For Free Sample Lesson For your own good, get all the facts. Write for our free #-page book, "Accountancy, The Profession That Pays" -- also the free sample lesson so you can prove to yourself that you can master accountancy quickly, thoroly in spare time at home. Over # Certified Public Accountants among LaSalle alumni A Correspondence Institution Send me without obligation. Free Sample Lesson and "Accountancy, The Profession That Pays." Name Age Address City, Zone  State r All Stories New and Complete Cover by Anton Kurka Illustrating the story  (( First Stage: Moon" I Landing on Asteroid Hermes  IF is published monthly by Quinn Publishing Company, Inc. Volume #, No. #. Copyright # by Quinn Publishing Co., Inc. Office of publication, # Lord Street, Buffalo, New York. Entered as Second Class Matter at Post Office, Buffalo, New York. Subscription # for # issues in U.S. and Possessions; Canada # for # issues; elsewhere #. Allow four weeks for change of address. All stories appearing in this magazine are fiction; any similarity to actual persons is coincidental. Not responsible for unsolicited artwork oi manuscripts. #c a copy. Printed in U.S.A. Next issue on sale November #th New tests, cited by an expert in news stories, show that: your ability to think increases with age; your powers of deduc tion are greater; your judgment is better. files are thousands of case histories of men and women of every age. Their successes, their promotions, their raises prove that men and women past school age can learn! Listen to A.L.G. "Up until I took the course, I did what I was told. But now... I tell others what to do." bave the feeling you're "stuck" in your job? for Real "Job Security --  Get an I.C. S. Diploma! Your trained I. C. S. counselor will appraise your abilities, help you plan for the future Listen to D.F.K. "Before enrolling, I was i foundry laborer. Today I am a draftsman, en joying a  increase in salary." with I. C. S. at home, in your spare time. There's no interference with business or social activity, Famous I. C. S. texts make learning easy. And whatever your age, you're more capable novi than you've ever been. But don't delay! Pick your field from the coupon below. Mail the coupon today! We'll send free "success" book, survey of opportunities in your field! Mail nou for # ree books  JfaiMiMreqMg I.C #t Scranton #, Penna  Civil Enginaaring  Construction Enginaaring  Highway Engineering  Reading Struct Blueprint  Sanitary Engineering  Structural Engineering a Surveying and Mapping O Aircraft Drafting  Architectural Drafting C Electrical Drafting  Mechanical Drafting  Mine Surveying and Mapping  Ship Drafting  Structural Drafting  Electrical Engineering  Electrical Maintenance  Electrician  Contracting  Lineman  Commercial  Good English  High School Subjects  Mathematics ( Partial list of # courses)  Air Conditioning -- Refrigl  Architecture  Building Contractor  Building Maintenance  Carpenter and Mill Work  Estimating  Healing  Painting Contractor  Plumbing  Reading Arch. Blueprints  Steamfitting  Cartooning  Commercial Art  Fashion Illustrating  Magazine Illustrating  Sfv.-w Card and Sign lettering  Sketching and Painting  Auto Body Rebuilding  Auto Elec. Technician  Auto-Engine Tune Up  Automobile Mechanic Q Aeronautical Engineering Jr.  Aircraft  Engine Mechanic  Advertising  Bookkeeping and Accounting  Business Administration D Business Correspondence  Certified Public Accounting  Creative Salesmanship  Federal Tax  Letter-writing Improvement  Managing Small Business  Office Management  Retail Business Management  Sales Management  Stenographic-Secretarial  Traffic Management  Analytical Chemistry G Chemical Engineering C Chem. Lab. Technician  General Chemistry  Natural Gas Prod l Trans.  Petroleum Engineering  Plastics O Pulp and Paper Making  Foremanship  Industrial Supervision  Leadership and Organization Q Personnel-Labor Relations O GasElectric Welding O O Heat Treatment  Metallurgy   Industrial Engineering   Industrial Instrumentation   Industrial Supervision   Machine Design-Drafting  Machine Shop Inspection   Machine Shop Practice   Mechanical Engineering   Quality Control   Reading Shop Blueprints   Refrigeration   Sheet Metal Worker   Tool Design  Toolmaking  Electronics   Practical Radio -- TV Eng'r'ng O  Radio and TV Servicing O  Radio Operating   Television -- Technician  Air Brake  Car Inspect Diesel Locomotive Locomotive Engineer Section Foreman Combustion Engineering Diesel-Elec.  Diesel Eng'S Electric Light snd Power Stationary Firemen Stationary Steam Engineering Carding and Spinning Cotton, Rayon, Woolen Mfg. Finishing and Dyeing Loom Fixing Textile Designing Textile EngVg  Throwing Warping and Weaving Domestic Refrigeration Marine Engineering Ocean Navigation Shipfitting Short Story Writing Telephony NameJtge...Home AddressCity...Zone...State.Working Hours. Occupation. Canadian residents send coupon to International Correspondence Schools, Canadian, Ltd., Montreal, Canada... Special tuitipn rates to members of the (J. S Armed Forces. patch from Washington, D.G., reported that the Federation of American Scientists had proposed a "six point revision" of government standards regarding security. This eminent group of scientists declared "there is a need for a new approach to security" because "loyal people at all levels of responsibility in the atomic energy program, including the commissioners themselves, might well be indicted by the same kind of standards as were applied to Dr Oppenheimer." One of the six points offered was: "Although association with a large number of reputedly disloyal persons might be a ground for a finding of disloyalty or flagrant indescretion," the scientists contended that "when a few such associations can outweigh all other evidence of discretion and loyalty, the security system is in danger of becoming monstrous." From this it seems that these scientists think the ruling was unfair and that loyalty can be diluted. In other words, it reads to me like you can associate with four or five disloyal persons and be subject to a mere reprimand, while it would require association with thirty or forty or fifty disloyal persons to be found guilty of complete disloyalty. All I know about such top drawer operations of the government is what I read in the newspapers. But from what I have read in the newspapers about the Oppenheimer case, it seems that the Government was fair and just and right in declaring Dr. Oppenheimer a security risk. Loyalty is something you can't divide. It has to be # or nothing. If you are ninety-eight per cent loyal, you're still short as far as a vital seourity risk is concerned. That other two per cent is enough to give an enemy agent all he wants. "Few such associations" are a few such associations too many, regardless of evidence of other loyalty or discretion. One single indiscretion with one single spy can wreck the country. History has too many such cases to ignore them. And the United States Government leans over backwards in an effort to be fair towards spies, subversives and disloyal persons. I think this is rather obvious. Dr. Oppenheimer admitted associating with Communists, and he had failed to adhere strictly to security rules and other factors. In Russia they would have kept him under #-hour guard and the only person he could talk to would have been himself or one of the Kremlin dogs. If he had escaped his keepers and had been found mingling with a bunch of U.S. capitalists, they would have shot him. Now and then, as in any law, there are shades of guilt or innocence, but in a verdict there can be only black and white -- guilty or not guilty. The security of a nation is too big a thing to gamble with. they are doing the right thing in proposing that standards pertaining to our national security be revised, let's remember one thing: not one of them, nor the group, is more important than the nation they serve. Therefore, whether security regulations seem right or wrong, they have submitted themselves to its dictates and decrees by becoming the eminent scientists they are. For seven or eight years I have repeatedly convinced myself that I would never become such an addict as I have seen other people become. And I have reserved a great deal of sympathy for those stricken with this particular habit. Now, all that's changed. A few days ago I became a full fledged member of that new social order that has taken the conversation gambit away from the fishermen and the hunters and the skiers and golfers and others. And it looks like I shall become an addict too -- because I obtained a gadget or an instrument or device or whatever it is that causes people to re-do their living habits more than any other invention of modern times. Because of this gadget or instrument I find that I shall spend several times its cost in partitioning off a room, putting in a couple of doors, laying some sort of floor and decorating the joint. Then I shall get chairs and ash trays and peanut bowls and special lights. I shall put in a stock of liquid refreshments and nicknacks and short order stuff. I shall have to adjust my eating habits, my reading habits and my sleeping hours. I shall get quite used to unexpected telephone calls from people whose gadgets have gone out of order. I shall get used to unexpected people showing up at the door with the excuse that they just happened to be passing my way at a certain time. I shall become used to considerable irritation and susceptible to ulcers because it isn't working right; or because somebody else wants something I don't want or vice versa. I shall view corn served a hundred different ways and cuss myself for wasting time and sleep and go right back and do it again the next night. I shall tell bald face lies -- that will out-do those of the most ardent fishermen -- about how good my gadget works. I shall discuss and argue about certain electronic devices, politics, personalities, sports, parts and installations with the greatest authority -- when I don't know a damn thing about them. I shall dwell in the dark, shutting out the good daylight and the wonderful view of the Catskill Mountains and the fresh air of the four seasons. I shall spend all my free time, and a lot of time that isn't free, slouched in a chair down below the ground in my cellar... For that is where my new television set is located. -- jiq wmm mmsmm  IwHl Illustrated by Leo Summers Mbarara was Austin s city, his dream, a civilization carved from the screaming depths of the Jungle . The culture and sciences of his people would see that it lived. And the "magic" of old Bohawah would see that it died... foxfeet, invisibly, it had crept, past all the fences and traps he had laid, past all the barriers. And now it sat inside his mind, a part of him, like his pulse, like the steady beat of his heart. Richard Austin became rigid in the chair. He closed his eyes and strained the muscles in his body until they were silent and unmoving as granite; and he listened to the thing that had come again, taking him by surprise even while he had been waiting. He listened to it grow -- it seemed to grow; he couldn't be sure: perhaps he was merely bringing it into sharper focus by filtering out the other constant sounds : the winds that whispered through the foliage of balloon-topped trees the murmurous insect-drone of all the machines that produced this wind and pumped blood through the city from their stations far beneath the night-heavy streets. Or, perhaps, it was because he was searching, trying to lay hands on it that the thing seemed to be different tonight, stronger, surer. Or -- what did it matter? He sat in the darkened room and listened to the drums; to the even, steady throb that really neither rose nor diminished, but held to that slow dignified tempo with which he'd become so familiar. Then quickly he rose from the chair and shook his head. The sounds died and became an indistinguishable part of the silence. It was only concentration, he thought, and the desire to hear them that gave them life... Richard Austin released a jagged breath from his swollen lungs, painfully. He walked to the bar and poured some whiskey into a glass and drank most of it in a single swallow: it went down his dry throat like knives, forcing the salivary glands back into action. He shook his head again, turned and walked back across the living room to the far door. It swung out noiselessly as his hand touched the ornamented circle of hammered brass. The figure of his wife lay perfectly still under the black light, still and pale, as she had lain three hours before. He walked toward her, feeling his nostrils dilate at the acrid medicine smells, harshly bitter and new to his senses. He blinked away the hot tears that had rushed, stinging, to his eyes; and stood for a time, quietly, trying not to think of the drums. Then he whispered: "Mag... Mag, don't die tonight!" Imbecile words! He clenched his fists and stared down at the face that was so full of pain, so twisted with defeat, that now you could not believe it had once been different, a young face, full of laughter and innocence and courage. The color had gone completely. From the burning splotchy scarlet of last week to this stiff white mask, lifeless, brittle as drying paste. And covered over with perspiration that glistened above her mouth in cold wet buttons and over her face like oil on white stone. The bedding under and around her was drenched gray. Austin looked at the bandage that covered his wife's head, and forced away the memory, brutally. The memory of her long silver hair and how it had fallen away in clumps in his hands with a week after she had been stricken... But the thoughts danced out of control, and he found himself remembering all the terrible steps in this nightmare. The scientists had thought it malaria, judging from the symptoms, which were identical. But that was difficult to accept, for malaria had been effectively conquered -- powerful new discoveries in vaccines having been administered first, and then the primary cause of the disease itself -- the Anopheles mosquitoe -- destroyed completely. And the liquid alloys which formed the foundations for this new city eliminated all the likely breeding places, the bogs and marshlands and rivers. No instance of re-occurrence of the disease had been reported for half a century. Yet -- malarial parasites were discovered in the bloodstreams of those first victims, unmistakable parasites that multiplied at a swift rate and worked their destruction of the red corpuscles. And the chemists immediately had to go about the business of mixing medicines from now ancient prescriptions, frantically working against time. A disquieting, even a frightening thing; but without terror for the builders of the new city; not sufficient to make them abandon their work or to spark mass evacuations. Panic was by now so forgotten by most that it had become a new emotion, to be learned all over again. It had not taken very long to relearn, Austin recalled. Terror had come soon enough. The stricken -- some thirty husky workmen, engineers, planners -- had rallied under the drugs and seemed to be out of critical condition when, one night, they had all suffered relapses, fallen into fevered comas and proceeded to alternate between unconsciousness and delirium. The scientists were baffled. They tried frenziedly to arrest the parasites, but without success. Their medicines were useless, their drugs and radium treatments and innovations -- all, useless. Finally, they could only look on as the disease took new turns, developed strange characteristics, changed altogether from what they had taken to be malaria to something utterly foreign. It began to assume a horrible regular pattern: from prolonged delirium to catatonia, whereby the victim's respiratory system and heartbeat diminished to a condition only barely distinguishable from death. And then, the most hideous part: the swift decomposition of the body cells, the destruction of the tissues... Richard Austin carefully controlled a shudder as he thought of those weeks that had been the beginning. He fingered out a cigarette from his pocket, started to strike it, then broke the cylinder and ground its bright red flakes into his palms. No other real hint had been given, then : only the disease. Someone had nicknamed it "Jungle Rot" -- cruel, but apt. The victims were rotting alive, the flesh falling from them like rain-soaked rags; and they did not die wholly, ever, until they had been transformed into almost unrecognizable mounds of putrescence... He put out a hand and laid it gently against his wife's cheek. The perspiration was chill and greasy to his touch, like the stagnant water of slew banks. Instinctively his fingers recoiled and balled back into fists. He forced them open again and stared at the tiny dottles of flesh that clung to them. "Mag!" It had started already! Wildly, he touched her arm, applying very slight pressure. The outer skin crumbled away, leaving a small wet gray patch. Austin's heart raced; an involuntary movement caused his fingers to pinch his own wrists, hard. A wrinkled spot appeared and disappeared, a small, fading red line. She's dying, he thought. Very surely, very slowly, she's begun to die -- Mag. Soon her body will turn gray and then it will come loose; the weight of the sheet will be enough to tear big strips of it away... She'll begin to rot, and her brain will know it -- they had discovered that much : the victims were never completely comatose, could not be adequately drugged -- she will know that she is mouldering even while she lives and thinks... And why? His head ached, throbbed. Why? The years, these past months, the room with its stink of decay -- everything rushed up, suddenly, If I had agreed to leave with the rest he thought, to run away, then Mag would be well and full of life. But -- I didn't agree... He had stayed on to fight. And Mag would not leave without him. Now she was dying and that was the end of it. Or -- he turned slowly -- was it? He walked out to the balcony. The forced air was soft and cool; it moved in little patches through the streets of the city. Mbarara, his city; the one he'd dreamed about and then planned and designed and pushed into existence ; the place built to pamper five hundred thousand people. Empty, now, and deserted as a gigantic churchyard Dimly he recognized the sound of the drums, with their slow muffled rhythm, directionless as always, seeming to come from everywhere and from nowhere. Speaking to him. Whispering. Austin lit a cigarette and sucked the calming smoke into his lungs. He remained motionless until the cigarette was down to the cork. Then he walked back into the bedroom, opened a cabinet and took a heavy silver pistol. He loaded it carefully. Mag lay still; almost, it seemed to Austin, expectant, waiting. So very still and pale. He pointed the barrel of the pistol at his wife's forehead and curled his finger around the trigger. Another slight pressure and it would be over. Her suffering would be over. Just a slight pressure! The drums droned louder until they were exploding in the quiet room. Austin tensed and fought the trembling, gripped the pistol with his other hand to steady it. But his finger refused to move on the curved trigger. After a long moment, he lowered his arm and dropped the gun into his pocket. "No." He said it quietly, undramatically. The word hit a barrier of mucus and came out highpitched and child-like. He coughed. That was what they wanted him to do -- he could tell, from the drums. That's what so many of the others had done. Panicked. "No." He walked quickly out of the room, through the hall, to the elevator. It lowered instantly but he did not wait for it to reach bottom before he leapt off and ran across the floor to the barricaded front door. He tore at the locks. Then the door swung open and he was outside; for the first time in three weeks -- outside, alone, in the city. He paused, fascinated by the strangeness of it. Impossible to believe that he was the only white man left in the entire city. He strode to a high-speed walkway, halted it and stepped on. Setting the power at half with his passkey, he pressed the control button and sagged against the rail as the belt whispered into movement. He knew where he was going. Perhaps he even knew why. But he didn't think about that; instead, he looked at the buildings that slid by silently, the vast rolling spheres and columns of colored stone, the balanced shapes that existed now and that had once existed only in his mind. And he listened to the drums, wondering why the sound of them seemed natural and his buildings suddenly so unnatural, so strange and disjointed. Like green balloons on yellow sticks, the cultured "Grant Wood" trees slipped by, uniform and straight, arranged in aesthetically pleasing designs on the stone islands between belts. Austin smiled: The touch of nature. Toy trees, ruffling in artificial winds... It all looked, now, like the model he had presented to the Senators. About as real and lifelike. Austin moved like a carefully carved and painted figurine, incredibly small and lonely-looking on the empty walkway. He thought about the years of preparation; the endless red tape and paper work that had preceeded the actual job. Then of the natives, how they had protested and petitioned to influence the Five-Power governments and how that had slowed them down. The problem of money, whipped only by pounding at the point of over-population, again and again, never letting up for a moment. The problem of workers. The problems, problems... He could not recall when the work itself had actually begun -- it was all so joined. Laying the first railroad could certainly not have been a particle as beset with difficulty. Because the tribes of the Kenya territory numbered into the with hatred and fury, opposing the city at every turn. No explanation had satisfied them. They saw it as the destruction of their world and so they fought. With guns and spears and arrows and darts, with every resource at their disposal, refusing to capitulate, hunting like an army of mad ants scattered over the land. And, since they could not be controlled, they had to be destroyed. Like their forests and rivers and mountains, destroyed, to make room for the city. Though not, Austin remembered grimly, without loss. The white men had fine weapons, but none more fatal than machetes biting deep into neck flesh or sharp wooden shafts coated with strange poisons. And they did not all escape. Some would wander too far, unused to this green world where a man could become hopelessly lost within three minutes. Others would forget their weapons. And a few were too brave. Austin thought of Joseph Fava, the engineer, who had been reported missing. And of how Fava had come running back to the camp after two days, running and screaming, a bright crimson nearly dead creature out of the worst dreams. He had been cleanly stripped of all his skin, except for the face, hands, and feet... But, the city had grown, implacably, spreading its concrete and alloy fingers wider every day over the dark and feral country. Nothing could stop it. Mountains were stamped flat. Rivers were damned off or drained or put elsewhere. The marshes were filled. The animals shot from the trees and then the trees cut down. And the big gray machines moved forward, gobbling up the jungle with their iron teeth, chewing it clean of its life and all its living things. Until it was no more. All of Kenya, and most of Tanganyika, leveled, smoothed as a highway is smoothed, its centuries lions of tons of hardened stone. The birth of a city... It had become the death of a world. And Richard Austin was its murderer. A S HE traveled, he thought of the shaman, the half-naked, toothless Bantu medicine man who had spoken for most of the tribes. "You have killed us, and we could not stop you. So now we will wait , until you have made your city and others come to live here. Then you will know what it is to die. # Bokawah, who lived in superstition and fear, whom civilization had passed, along with the rest of his people. Who never spoke again after those words, and allowed himself to be moved to the wide iron plateau that had been built for the surviving natives. Bokawah, the ignorant shaman, with his eternal smile... How distinct that smile was now! The walkway shuddered, suddenly, and jarred to a noisy grinding stop. Austin pitched forward and grasped the railing in order to break his fall. Awareness of the silence came first. The eerie dead silence that hung like a pall. It meant that the central machines had ceased functioning. They had been designed to operate automatically and perpetually; it was unthinkable that these power sources could break down! As unthinkable as the drums that murmured to life again beyond the stainless towers, so loud now in the silence, so real. Austin gripped his pistol tightly and shook away the panic that had bubbled up like acid in his chest. It was merely that the power had gone off. Strike out impossible, insert improbable. Improbabilities happen. The evil spirits do not summon them, they happen. Like strange diseases. I am fighting, he thought, a statistical paradox. That's all. A storage pile of coincidences . If I wait -- he walked close to the sides of the buildings -- and fight , the graph will change. The curve will... The drums roared out a wave of scattered sound, stopped, began again... He thought a bit further of charts; then the picture of Mag materialized, blocking out the thick ink lines, ascending and descending on their giant graphs. Thinking wasn't going to help... He walked on. Presently, at the end of a curve in the city maze, the 'village' came into view, suspended overhead like a gigantic jeweled spider. It thrust out cold light. It was silent. Austin breathed deeply. By belt, his destination was only minutes away. But the minutes grew as he walked through the city, and when he had reached the lift, hot pains wrenched at his muscles. He stood by the crystal platform, working action back into numbed limbs. Then he remembered the silence, the dead machines. If they were not functioning, then the elevator -- His finger touched a button, experimentally. A glass door slid open with a pneumatic hiss. He walked inside, and tried not to think as the door closed and the bullet-shaped lift began to rise. Below, Mbarara grew small. The treated metals glowed in a dimming lace of light. And the city looked even more like the little clay model he had built with his hands. At last movement ceased. Austin waited for the door to slide open again, then he strode out onto the smooth floor. It was very dark. The artificial torches did not even smolder: their stubs, he noticed, were blackened and cold. But the gates to the village lay open. He looked past the entrance into the frozen shadows. He heard the drums, throbbing from within, loud and distinct. But -- ordinary drums, whose soundwaves would dissipate before ever reaching the city below. He walked into the village. The huts, like glass blisters on smooth flesh, sat silent. Somehow, they were obscene in the dark, to Austin. Built to incorporate the feel and the atmosphere of their originals and yet to include the civilized conveniences; planned from an artistic as well as a scientific standpoint -- they were suddenly obscene. Perhaps, Austin thought, as he walked, perhaps there was something to what Barney had been saying... No -- these people had elected to stay of their own free will. It would have been impossible to duplicate exactly the monstrous conditions under which they had lived. If not impossible, certainly wrong. Let them wallow in their backward filth? In their disease and corruption, let them die -- merely because their culture had failed to absorb scientific progress? No. You do not permit a man to leap off the top of a hundred-story building just because he has been trained to believe it is the only way to get to the ground floor -- even though you insult him and blaspheme against his gods through your intervention. You restrain him, at any cost. Then, much later, you show him the elevator. And because he is a man, with a brain no smaller than yours, he will understand. He will understand that a crushed superstition is better than a crushed head. And he will thank you, eventually. That is logic. Austin walked, letting these thoughts form a thick crust. He felt the slap of the pistol against his thigh and this, also, was comforting. Where were they now? Inside the huts, asleep? All of them? Or had they, too, contracted the disease and begun to die of it?... Far ahead, at the clearing which represented the tip of the design, a glow of light appeared. As he approached, the drums grew louder, and other sounds -- voices. How many voices? The air was at once murmurous and alive. He stopped before the clearing and leaned on the darkness and watched. Nearby a young woman was dancing. Her eyes were closed, tightly, and her arms were straight at her sides like black roots. She was in a state of possession, dancing in rhythm to the nearest drum. Her feet moved so fast they had become a blur, and her naked body wore a slick coat of perspiration. Beyond the dancing woman, Austin could see the crowd, squatted and standing, swaying; over a thousand of them -- surely every native in the village! A clot of brown skin and bright hunched in the firelight. An inner line of men sat over drums and hollow logs, beating these with their palms and with short sticks of wood. The sounds blended strangely into one -- the one Austin had been hearing, it seemed, all his life. He watched, fascinated, even though he had witnessed Bantu ceremonies countless times in the past, even though he was perfectly familiar with the symbols. The little leather bags of hex-magic: nailfilings, photographs, specks of flesh ; the rubbing boards stained with fruit-skins ; the piles of bones at the feet of the men -- old bones, very brittle and dry and old. Then he looked beyond the natives to the sensible clean crystal walls that rose majestically, cupping the area, giving it form. It sent a chill over him. He walked into the open. ly, like a scream cut off. The dancers caught their balance, blinked, drew in breath. The others lifted their heads, stared. All were turned to dark unmoving wax. Austin went past the gauntlet of eyes, to one of the painted men. "Where is Bokawah?" he said loudly, in precise Swahili. His voice regained its accustomed authority. "Bokawah. Take me to him." No one moved. Hands lay on the air inches above drums, petrified. "I have come to talk!" From the corner of his eye, Austin felt the slight disturbance. He waited a moment, then turned. A figure crouched beside him. A man, unbelievably old and tiny, sharp little bones jutting into loose flesh like pins, skin cross-hatched with a pattern of white paint, chalky as the substance some widows of the tribes wore for a year after the death of their mates. His mouth was pulled into a shape not quite a smile, but resembling a smile. It revealed hardened toothless gums. The old man laughed, suddenly. The amulet around his chickenneck bobbled. Then he stopped laughing and stared at Austin. "We have been waiting," he said, softly, Austin started at the perfect English. He had not heard English for a long time; and now, coming from this little man... Perhaps Bokawah had learned it. Why not? "Walk with me, Mr. Austin." He followed the ancient shaman, dumbly, not having the slightest idea why he was doing so, to a square of moist soil. It was surrounded by natives. Bokawah looked once at Austin, then reached down and dipped his hands into the soil. The horny fingers scratched away the top-dirt, burrowed in like thin, nervous animals, and emerged, finally, holding something. Austin gasped. It was a doll. It was Mag. He wanted to laugh, but it caught in his throat. He knew how the primitives would try to inflict evil upon an enemy by burying his effigy. As the effigy rotted, symbolically, so would... He snatched the doll away from the old man. It crumbled in his hands. "Mr. Austin," Bokawah said, "I'm very sorry you did not come for this talk long ago." The old man's lips did not move. The voice was his and yet not his. Austin knew, suddenly, that he had not come to this place of his own accord. He had been summoned. The old man held a hyena's tail in his right hand. He waved this and a slight wind seemed to come up, throwing the flames of the fire into a neurotic dance. "You are not convinced, even now, Mr. Austin. Aiii. You have seen suffering and death, but you are not convinced." Bokawah sighed. "I will try one last time." He squatted on the smooth floor. "When you first came to our country, and spoke your plans, I told you -- even then -- what must happen. I told you that this city must not be. I told you that my people would fight, as your people would fight if we were to come to your land and build jungles. But you understood nothing of what I said." He did not accuse; the voice was expressionless. "Now Mbarara lies silent and dead beneath you and still you do not wish to understand. What must we do, Mr. Austin? How shall we go about proving to you that this Mbarara of yours will always be silent and dead, that your people will never walk through it?" Austin thought of his old college friend Barney -- and of what Barney had once told him. Staring at Bokawah, at this scrawny, painted savage, he saw the big Texan clearly, and he remembered his wild undergraduate theories -- exhuming the antique view of primitives and their religions, their magics. "Go on, pal, laugh at their tabus # Barney, who was an anthropologist, used to be fond of saying, "sneer, while you throw salt over your shoulder . Laugh at their manas, while you blab about our own 'geniuses # ! # He had even gone beyond the point of believing that magic was important because it held together the fabric of culture among these natives, because it -- and their religious superstitions -- gave them a rule for behavior, therefore, in most cases, happiness. He had even come to believe that native magic was just another method of arriving at physical truths. Of course, it was all semantic nonsense. It suggested that primitive magic could lift a ship into space or destroy disease or... That had been the trouble with Barney. You could never tell when he was serious. Even a social anthropologist wouldn't go so far as to think there was more than one law of gravity. "Mr. Austin, we have brought you here for a purpose. Do you know what that purpose is?" "I don't know and I don't -- " "Have you wondered why you, alone, of all your people, have been spared? Then -- listen to me, very carefully. Because if you do not, then what has happened in your new city is merely the beginning. The winds of death will blow over Mbarara and it will be far more awful than what has been." The medicine man stared down at the scattered piles of bones. Panther bones, Austin knew -- a divination device. Their position on the ground told Bokawah much about the white people. "Go back to your chiefs. Tell them that they must forget this city. Tell them that death walks here and that it will always walk, and that their magic is powerful but not powerful enough. It cannot stand against the spirits from time who have been summoned to fight. Go and talk to your chiefs and tell them these things. Make them believe you. Force them to understand that if they come to Mbarara, they will die, in ways they never dreamed, of sickness, in pain, slowly. Forever." The old man's eyes were closed. His mouth did not move at all and the voice was mechanical. "Tell them, Mr. Austin, that at first you thought it was a strange new disease that struck the workers. But then remind them that your greatest doctors were powerless against the contagion, that it spread and was not conquered. Say these things. And, perhaps, they will believe you. And be saved." Bokawah studied the panther bones carefully, tracing their arrangement. Austin's voice was mechanical, also. "You are forgetting something," he said. He refused to let the thoughts creep in. He refused to wonder about the voice that came through closed lips, about where the natives could have found soil or fresh panther bones or... "No one," he said to the old man, "has fought back -- yet." "But why would you do that, Mr. Austin, since you do not believe in the existence of your enemy? Whom shall you fight?" Bokawah smiled. The crowd of natives remained quiet, unmoving, in the dying firelight. "The only fear you hold for us," Austin said, "is the fear that you may prove psychologically harmful." He looked at the crushed doll at his feet. The face was whole; otherwise, it lay hideously disfigured. "Yes?" "Right now, Bokawah, my government is sending men. They will arrive soon. Whey they do, they will study what has happened. If it is agreed that your rites -- however harmless in themselves -- cause currents of fear -- are in any way responsible for the disease -- you will be given the opportunity to go elsewhere or -- " Or, Mr. Austin?" " -- you will be eliminated." "Then people will come to Mbarara. Despite the warnings and the death, they will come?" "Your magic sticks aren't going to scare away five hundred thousand men and women." "Five hundred thousand..." The old man looked at the bones, sighed, nodded his head. "You know your people very well," he murmured. Austin smiled. "Yes, I do." "Then I think there is little left for us to talk about." Austin wanted to say, No, you're wrong. We must talk about Mag! She's dying and I want to keep her from dying. But he knew what these words would mean. They would sketch his real feelings, his fears and doubts. And everything would be lost. He could not admit that the doll was anything more than a doll. He must not! The old man picked up a calabash and ran water over his hands. "I am sorry," he said, "that you must learn the way you must." A slow chant rose from the natives. It sounded to Austin like Swahili, yet it was indistinct. He could recognize none of the words, except gonga and bagana. Medicine? The man with the medicine? It was a litany, not unlike the Gregorian chants he had once heard, full of overpowering melancholy. Calm and ethereal and sad as only the human voice can be sad. It rode on the stale air, swelling, diminishing, cutting through the stench of decay and rot with profound dignity. Austin felt the heaviness of his clothes. The broken machines had stopped pumping fresh breezes, so the air was like oil, opening the pores of his body, running coldly down his arms and legs. Bokawah made a motion with his hand and sank back onto the smooth floor. He breathed wrackingly, and groaned as if in pain. Then he straightened and looked at Austin and hobbled quickly away. The drums began. Movement eased back into the throng and soon the dancers were up, working themselves back into their possessed states. Austin turned and walked quickly away from the ceremony. When he had reached the shadows, he ran. He did not stop running until he had reached the lift, even while his muscles, long dormant, unaccustomed to this activity, turned to stone, numb and throbbing stone. He stabbed the button and closed his eyes, while his heart pumped and roared sound into his ears and colored fire into his mind. The platform descended slowly, unemotional and calm as its parts. Austin ran out and fell against a building, where he tried to push away the image of the black magic ceremony, and what he had felt there. He swallowed needles of pain into his parched throat. And the fear mounted and mounted, strangling him slowly... loomed, suddenly, to Austin, more unreal and anachronistic than the tribal rites from which he had just come. Stalagmites of crystal pushing up to the night sky that bent above them; little squares and diamonds and circles of metal and stone. Office buildings; apartments; housing units; hat stores and machine factories and restaurants; and, cobwebbing among them, all these blind and empty shells, the walkways, like colored ribbons, like infinitely long reptiles, sleeping now, dead, still. Or, were they only waiting, as he wanted to believe? Of course they're waiting, he thought. People who know the answers will come to Mbarara tomorrow. Clear-headed scientists who have not been terrorized by a tribe of beaten primitives. And the scientists will find out what killed the workers, correct it, and people will follow. Five hundred thousand people, from all over the closetcrowded world, happy to have air to breathe once more -- air that hasn't had to travel down twohundred feet -- happy to know the Earth can yet sustain them. No more talk, then, of "population decreases" -- murder was a better word -- ; no more government warnings screaming "depopulation" at you... The dream would come true, Austin told himself. Because it must. Because he'd promised Mag and they'd lived it all together, endless years, hoped and planned and fought for the city. With Mbarara, it would begin : the dark age of a sardine can world would end, and life would begin. It would be many years before the worry would begin all over -- for half the earth lay fallow, wasted. Australia, Greenland, Iceland, Africa, the Poles... And perhaps then the population graph would change, as it had always changed before. And men would come out of their caverns and rat-holes and live as men. Yes. But only if Mbarara worked. If he could show them his success here... Austin cursed the men who had gone back and screamed the story of what had happened to the other engineers. God knew there were few enough available, few who had been odd enough to study a field for which there seemed little further use. If they'd only kept still about the disease! Then others would have come and... Died . The word came out instantly, uncalled, and vanished. Austin passed the Emperor, the playhouse he had thought of that night with Mag, ten years before. As he passed, he tried to visualize the foyer jammed with people in soup-and-fish and jeweled gowns, talking of whether the play had meat or not. Now, its marbled front putting out yellow glow, it looked foolish and pathetic. The placard case shone through newly gathered dust, empty. Austin tried to think of what had been on this spot originally. Thick jungle growth alone. Or had there been a native village -- with monkeys climbing the trees and swinging on vines and white widows mourning under straw roofs? nuts. Be still. You've stayed together all this time, he thought, you can hold out until tomorrow. Tcheletchew will be here, sputtering under his beard, and they'll fly Mag to a hospital and make her well and clear up this nonsense in a hurry. Just get home. Don't think and get home and it will be all right. The city was actually without formal streets. Its plan did not include the antiquated groundcars that survived here and there in old families. Therefore, Mbarara was literally a maze. A very pretty maze. Like an English estate -- Austin had admired these touches of vanished gentility -- the areas were sometimes framed by green stone hedges, carved into functional shapes. He had no difficulty finding his way. It was all too fresh, even now, the hours of planning every small curve and design, carefully leaving no artistic 'holes' or useless places. He could have walked it blindfolded. But when he passed the food dispensary and turned the corner, he found that it did not lead to the 'copter-park, as it should have. There were buildings there, but they were not the ones they ought to have been. Or else he'd turned the wrong -- He retraced his steps to the point where he had gone left. The food dispensary was nowhere in sight. Instead he found himself looking at the general chemistry building. Austin paused and wiped his forehead. The excitement, of course. It had clouded his mind for a moment, making him lose his way. He began walking. Warm perspiration coursed across his body, turning his suit dark-wet, staining his jacket. He passed the food dispensary. Austin clenched his fists. It was impossible that he could have made a complete circle. He had built this city, he knew it intimately. He had walked through it without even thinking of direction, in the halfstages of construction, and never taken a wrong step. How could he be lost? Nerves. Nothing strange in it. Certainly enough had happened to jar loose his sense of direction. Calmly , now. Calmly. The air hung fetid and heavy. He had to pull it into his lungs, push it out. Of course, he could go below and open the valves -- at least they could be operated by hand. He could, but why? It would mean hunching down in a dark shaft -- damn, should have made that shaft larger! And, there were, after all, enough openings in the sealing-bubble to keep a breathable flow of oxygen in circulation. If the air was heavy and still outside the bubble, he could scarcely expect it to be different within... He looked up at the half-minaretted tower that was one of the 'copter repair centers. It was located in exactly the opposite direction to the one he thought he'd taken. Austin sank onto a stone bench. Images floated through his mind. He was lost; precisely as lost as if he had wandered into the jungle that had stood here before the building of Mbarara, and then tried to find his way back. He closed his eyes and saw a picture, startlingly clear, of himself, running through the matted growths of dark green foliage, stumbling across roots, bumping trees, face grotesque with fear, and screaming... He opened his eyes quickly, shook away the vision. His brain was tired; that was why he saw such a picture. He must keep his eyes open. The city was unchanged. The park, designed for housewives who might wish to pause and rest or chat, perhaps feed squirrels, surrounded him. Across the boating lake was the university. Behind the university was home. Austin rose, weakly, and made his way down the grassy slope to the edge of the artificial lake. Cultured city trees dotted the banks: the lake threw back a geometrically perfect reflection. He knelt and splashed water into his face. Then he gulped some of it down and paused until the ripples spread to the center of the lake. He studied his image in the water carefully. White skin, smooth cheeks, iron-colored hair. Good clothes. A dolichocephalic head, evenly spaced, the head of a twenty-second century civilized... Above his reflection, Austin detected movement. He froze and blinked his eyes. As the water smoothed, the image of an animal appeared on the surface, wavering slightly. A small animal, something like a monkey. Like a monkey hanging from the branches of a tree. Austin whirled around. There was only the darkness, the golfing-green lawn, the cultured trees -- smooth-barked, empty. He passed a hand through his hair. It was a trick of the lights. His subconscious fear, the shimmering water... darkened boathouse, across its floor, his footsteps ringing against the stone, echoing loudly. At the end of the miniature pier, he untied a small battery boat and jumped into it. He pulled a switch at the side, waited, forced himself to look back at the deserted bank. The boat moved slowly, with only a whisper of sound, through the water. Hurry , Austin thought. Hurry -- Oh God, why are they so slow! The boat, whose tin flag proclaimed its name to be Lucy, sliced the calm lake with its toy prow, and, after many minutes, reached the center. The glow was insufficient to make the approaching bank distinct. It lay wrapped in darkness, a darkness that hid even the buildings. Austin narrowed his eyes and stared. He blinked. It was the fuzziness of the luminescence, of course, that gave movement to the bank. That made it seem to seethe with unseen life. It was only that his position to the shadows kept changing that made them turn into dark and feral shapes; trees, where buildings surely were, dense growth... It was the milky phosphorescence of the metals that rose like marshsteam from the nearing water... He thought of stepping of! the boat into a jungle, a magical forest, alive and waiting for him. He closed his eyes and gripped the sides of the boat. There was a scraping. Austin felt the cement guard, sighed, switched off the battery and leapt from the little boat. There was no jungle. Only the lime-colored city trees and the smooth lawn. The university sat ahead like a string of dropped pearls: blistershaped, connected by elevated tunnels, twisting, delicate strands of metal and alloy. Austin scrambled up the embankment. It must be very late now. Perhaps nearly morning. In a few hours, the others would arrive. And -- He halted, every musde straining. He listened. There were the drums. But not only the drums, now. Other sounds. He closed his eyes. The airless night pressed against him. He heard a rustling noise. Like something traveling through dense brush. He heard, far away, tiny sounds, whistlings, chitterings. Like monkeys and birds. He fore open his eyes. Only the park, the city. He went on. Now his feet were on stone and the park was behind him. He walked through the canyons of the city again, the high buildings, metal and crystal and alloy and stone. The rustling noises did not cease, however. They were behind him, growing nearer. Bodies, moving through leaves and tall grass. Austin suddenly remembered where he'd heard the sound before. Years ago, when he'd first visited this land. They had taken him on a hunting expedition, deep into the wild country. They were going to bag something -- he forgot exactly what. Something strange. Yes; it was a wild pig. They had walked all day, searching, through the high tan grass, and then they had heard the rustling sounds. Exactly like the sound he heard now. Austin recalled the unbelievable fury of the boar, how it had disembowled two dogs with a couple of swipes of those razor-sharp fangs. He recalled clearly the angry black snout, curled over yellow teeth. He turned and stared into the darkness. The noises grew steadily louder, and were broken by yet another sound. Deep and guttural, like a cough. As the sound behind him came closer, he ran, stumbled and fell, pulled himself from the stone and ran until he had reached a flight of steps. The coughing noise was a fast, high-pitched scream now, a grunting, snorting, a rush of tiny feet galloping across tamped earth, through dry grass. Austin stared blindly, covered his face with his arms and sank back until the sound was almost upon him. His nostrils quivered at the animal smell. His breath stopped. He waited. It was gone. Fading in the distance, the rustling, the coughing, and then there was the silence of the drums again. Austin pressed the bones of his wrist into his throbbing skull to quiet the ache. The panic drained off slowly. He rose, climbed the steps and walked through the shadowed courtyard onto the campus. It was a vast green plain, smooth and grassy. Across from it, in sight, was Austin's home. He gathered his reason about him like a shield, and decided against taking the other routes. If he had gotten lost before, it could happen again. Certainly now, with his imagination running wild. He must cross the campus. Then it would be all right. He began treading, timorously at first, listening with every square inch of his body. The shaman's voice slithered into his mind. Chanting. "... you were destroying us against our will , Mr. Austin. Our world, our life. And such is your mind, and the mind of so-called ( civilized # men, that you could not see this was wrong. You have developed a culture and a social structure that pleased you, you were convinced that it was right; therefore, you could not understand the existence of any that differed. You say us as ignorant savages -- most of you did -- and you were anxious to ' civilize ' us. Not once did it occur to you that we, too, had our culture and our social structure ; that we knew right and wrong; that, perhaps, we might look upon you as backward and uncivilized..." The sound of birds came to Austin; birds calling in high trees, circling impossibly in the night sky... we have clung to our 'magic', as you call it, and our 'superstitions' for longer than you have clung to yours. Because -- as with your own -- they have worked for us. Whether magic can be explained in Roman numerals or not, what is the difference, so long as it works? Mr. Austin, there is not only one path to the Golden City -- there are many. Your people are on one path -- " He heard the chatter of monkeys, some close, some far away, the sound of them swinging on vines, scolding, dropping to mounds of foliage, scrambling up other trees. -- my people are on another. There is room in this world for both ways. But your failure to grasp this simple fact has killed many of us and it will kill many more of you. For we have been on our path longer. We are closer to the Golden City..." Austin clapped his hands to his ears. But he did not stop walking. From the smooth stone streets, from the direction of the physics department, came the insane trumpeting of elephants, their immense bulks crashing against brittle bark, their huge feet crunching fallen limbs and branches... The shaman's voice became the voice of Barney Chadfield... He spoke again of his theory that if one could only discover the unwritten bases of black magic and apply formulae to them, we would find that they were merely another form of science... perhaps less advanced, perhaps more. The sounds piled up, and the feelings, and the sensations. Eyes firmly open, Austin thought of Mag and felt needled leaves slap invisibly against his legs; he smelled the rot and the life, the heavy, wild air of the jungle, like animal steam; the odors of fresh blood and wet fur and decaying plants; the short ent animals -- the movement, all around him, the approaches, the retreats, the frenzied unseen... Eyes open he felt and smelled and heard all these things; and saw only the city. A pain shot through his right arm. He tried to move it: it would not move. He thought of an old man. The old man had a doll. The old man was crushing the doll's arm, and laughing... He thought of reflexes and the reaction of reflexes to emotional stimuli. He walked, ignoring the pain, not thinking about the arm at all... tell them , Mr. Austin. Make them believe. Make them believe... Do not kill all these people... When he had passed the Law College, he felt a pain wrench at his leg. He heard another dry-grass rustle. But not behind him : in front. Going forward. Going toward his apartment. Austin broke into a run, without knowing exactly why. There was a pounding, a panting at his heels: vaguely he was aware of this. He knew only that he must get inside, quickly, to the sanity of his home. Jaws snapped, clacked. Austin stumbled on a vine, his fingers pulled at air, he leapt away and heard the sound of something landing where he had just been, something that screamed and hissed. He ran on. At the steps, his foot pressed onto something soft. It recoiled madly. He slipped and fell again, and the feel of moist beaded skin whipped about his legs. The thunder was almost directly above. He reached out, clawed lose the thing around his leg and pulled himself forward. There was a swarming over his hands. He held them in front of his eyes, tried to see the ants that had to be there, slapped the invisible creatures loose. The apartment door was only a few feet away now. Austin remembered his pistol, drew it out and fired it into the night until there were no more bullets left. He pulled himself into the lobby of the unit. The door hissed closed. He touched the lock, heard it spring together. And then the noises ceased. The drums and the animals, all the wild nightmare things -- ceased to be. There was his breathing, and the pain that laced through his arm and leg. He waited, trembling, trying to pull breath in. Finally he rose and limped to the elevator. He did not even think about the broken machines. He knew it would work. It did. The glass doors whirred apart at his floor, and he went out into the hall. It was soundless. (Continued on page #) They were the first men on Earth to reach the Moon and return . They were heroes of the world; they would be welcomed, and acclaimed and feted for the greatest achievement in history . Nations would seek them out... "Still black as the place the devils throw their old razor blades." "We'll hear it when we hit air." "Pretty soon now?" "A few minutes yet." "Man! My foot's working off at the knee." "John awake? Hey, John, you awake?" "How could I sleep through this? Whad'ya want?" "Nothing." "What's she look like?" "Earth?" "Of course." "A blue beach-ball with a white halo 'round it." "What's below us?" "Part of Asia, I think. Lots of clouds... I see India." "Man, it's hot in here!" "Hell, wait'll we hit air!" "We all awake? Anyone asleep say 'aye.' " "Aye." "No one's asleep. I heard four voices." "If anyone can sleep through this they've got my blessings. Woof! My neck." "You think you've got it bad; they've got me squeezed in with the camera equipment; I'm bent at the knees and again at the waist." "Ah, but after we land." "Ah, after we land." "And if we land, of course." " we land? Hell, listen to him; he's still got doubts! Unchain that libido, son, we're men of the world now!" "Of two worlds." "And speaking of worlds -- we'll rule the world, gentlemen!" "For a day!" "Maybe a week!" "Three rousing huzzahs for us!" "'Oops -- stand back there, son; these gentlemen just got back from the moon!' " " 'The first men on the moon!' " " 'The discoverers of a new world!' " " 'Hell, Pop, I knew it was there all the time!' " "We'll be famous -- our names will be on cereal boxes." "The hell with it; I'm tired." "Wish I could see out! What's it like?" "Same as before." "I can see someone's leg and the back of someone's head. Damn this lousy intercom. I can't even recognize voices." "What's it matter who we are? We're just a lousy pack of sardines 'til we hit Earth." "Good old Earth -- hell with it." "Gentlemen -- I would make a P "Also the hell with you!" "I'm gonna drown if I keep sweating like this." "Shut up! I've got something more important to say than your groaning." "If we must." "The next speaker will be the honorable -- who the hell are you anyway, bub?" "We... have just... visited .  . the moon!" "Hear!" "There's one more important thing we have to do before we land." "You mean slow down?" "One thing to talk over. Look suspicion you signed on this trip for some reason beside glory. Right?" " 'Cause Earth was getting too crowded for me." "How about you, Wong?" "Needed a change, too, I guess. Been breathing fresh air and seeing people too long. Got sick of it." "And John?" "Well... , I suppose I know what you're heading at. This isn't exactly a Jules Verne type trip to the moon, 'for the glory and advancement of science.' 'Least it isn't to me. I got sick of science when I was studying for my master's . Sick of seeing what people were doing with it. I thought a few new worlds might ease the tension back on Earth... before everything gets blown to pieces." "That's what I mean ; a few new worlds to explore might slow lousy man in his wild race to the backside of heaven. New frontiers. New excitements. It's bound to tie people closer together in spite of their prejudices." "But the glory! Don't forget the glory!" "The patriotic zeal!" "Yeah, the patriotic zeal! I feel the same way you do. Here we're trying to bring the world closer together and we have to do it in the name of the arms effort of a single nation." "War rocket experiment #Z" "Well, at least we'll be able to say what we think and we'll be important enough for a while so that people will listen to us." "Yeah, when we get down, they're going to say 'speech!' " "They are that!" "And we are going to speak!" "Heroes for a day!" "Maybe two days!" "And people will listen to us; not just America -- the whole damn world. Show people a larger goal, one big enough for the planet, and all the little power goals will fall away fast." "If we can say the right things yy    "They'll have to listen to us. The U.S.; Russia;... all the little countries." "Here she comes -- I hear something!" "Atmosphere!" "We're back home!" "Crisis number six. We can't fail now." "Before it's too loud to talk... listen to me. When we land, don't say anything. We'll all get a good sleep and a bath before we say a word. Right?" "Right!" "Just give 'em the pictures and samples and demand a nap. Everybody ready for the final blasting?" "Here's where I lose another two gallons of blood." "I hope we fall in a lake. I'm thirsty as a horse." "Man, it's hot!" "A hundred-twenty seconds!" "I'm not at all sure I can last this... that's straight stuff. Be ready to take over mine, too, Wong; just in case." "Hell, you better last!" "Sixty seconds!" "Testing light signals -- are they on?" "O.K. here." "Yeah." "Thirty seconds! Got your lights, Mike?" "Yeah." "Mine, too." "This is gonna be awful!" "Ten seconds. Five. Four. Three. Two." "O.K. Here she comes!" "Well, man! man! man! Are we down?" "We sure hit something !" "We made it! Oh, God, we made it!" "We're back! Did we get back?" "Where'd we land?" "Ocean. Atlantic." "Well, break the hull. It's awful in here!" "Hang on! You may get a ducking." "Air! Real Air! Whoosh -- don't let anyone go and poison this air with cobalt bombs." "Everyone here? Help Joe up, there! Thataboy! how's it go?" "Man, we're really here! Where's the reception committee?" "They were watching us with telescopes; remember? They were going to clear all ships and planes out of the area we were heading for." "Remember; no speeches 'til we get a rest." "Yeah, and then I know what I'm going to say." "We can't do much but we sure can do somethin g" "Stage one: Moon. Stage two: Earth." "Here they come... planes!" "Look dignified." "Man, look at that rocket out there; it's passing all the rest; coming down from above them." "Looks practically wingless. It's going to beat the rest by a decade... hey, it's black!" "Is it ever fast! What country is it? I can't see any identification." "Say, it's going to pass us right by. Look out, it's diving." "What's it dropping?" "Look out! Bomb! Bomb! Bomb! Duck..."    in IFs College Science Fiction Contest And Gone Tomorrow Here is the best story submitted in answer to the theme question: "What Will Life in America Be Like # Years From Now ?"... Written by an undergraduate at the University of Louisville, Louisville , Kentucky , it pictures the America of # as part of a world empire run by an Italian dictator and very similar to that of the ancient Caesars and the early Roman Empire. There is one language, one religion and customs and laws have changed to stdt the times . But, basically, human nature hasn't changed and there is the omnipresent clash of faction against faction. The theme is that a dictatorship is the only perfect form of government . If there is a moral, it is that there is no permanent form of government. Illustrated by Paul Orban stared up at the man. "This is June #, #' screamed "Say it again," he muttered. for release. He knew what the answer would "No! No! You're lying! It's imbe even before the man repeated it possible!" He grabbed the man's in that quiet voice. tunic and drew back a doubled fist. "This is June #, #." His chair went over behind him. The fellow wasn't kidding him. Then a stiff thumb jabbed him He was serious enough. But a in the short ribs and he grunted couple of minutes ago it had been and went down. May #, #. He looked at his "This is June #, #. You are watch and grunted. Less than four still in Louisville, Kentucky. You minutes ago it had been #. are standing in a room adjoining Reality. Now it was June #, #. the laboratory in the Time BuildThere were four steel walls. There ing on #rd Street at Eastern Parkwas a steel chair. There were no way. This is the receiving room, windows. My name is Kevin Ilaria. You've He tried to take it calmly. But come through time. Is that so imthe unbelievable horror of being possible to grasp? You're a thinkwhere he was and when he was ing man. Educated!" He looked up from the floor. "Well?" "So I'm a thinking man and an educated man. And what happens? I'm sapped. I'm shanghaied. I'm walking down Confederate Place to my old fraternity house at #:# in the morning. I've just had a row with my girl. I'm heading for the fraternity house to see who'll go down to Herman's and get good and drunk with me. And somebody clobbers me. The next thing I remember I'm sitting in a steel chair in a steel room without any windows. Just like this one. There's a man standing there. A man with watery, myopic eyes under bushy brows and his hair parted in the middle. He's Doctor Borley, of the University of Louisville Chemistry Department. There's another man with him. A little fellow with thick glasses and a crew cut and eyes like the slits between closed Venetian blinds. He's Doctor Schink, of the Psychology Department. They're talking about me." "Umn hmn. Now you're beginning to sound normal. Doctors Borley and Schink are our agents in #. Do you know where you were?" "I told you. In some sort of steel room without win -- " One of the requirements for entering IF's College Science Fiction Contest was that the contestant he a te simon pure" amateur -- never having been published professionally. This is Andy Offut's first published story, and it has been accorded the same editing we give to professional manuscripts. No rewriting or revisions have been made. See November IF for complete announcement of this and the six other winners in this nation-wide contest. The man made an impatient gesture with his hand. "No, I mean where. You were in a steel chamber in the Daynolds Metals Plant. It stood on this spot in #. Two people knew -- know -- about that room." "Doctor Borley and Doctor Schink?" "I'm glad you've calmed down. Now we can talk." Jay wasn't quite ready to calm down. "You stand there in that Roman outfit and talk about being calm. To me. To me, Jay Welch, a history major who took his AB from the University of Louisville in #. Jay Welch, average guy, who got into an average argument with the girl he pinned in # and went for a walk to drown his sorrows and wound up one hundred years from where -- when -- he started. I -- " "Then you admit you've come through Time?" "I may as well." Ilaria cursed quietly. "But you're not an average guy. You have a working knowledge of chemistry and biology and physics and history and a few arts and sociology and psychology and geopolitics and literature and the English language as spoken in AD #. You hope to be successful as a writer. You're Public Relations Consultant with Duo-Point, one of the biggest corporations in your nation in #." "Yes," Jay Welch said. "And I make good money. Even better than a bus driver or a steam-fitter. So?" "So here you are. #'s representative to #." Ilaria was only a man. He could not keep the flourish and the Hollywood grandeur out of his voice. "Yes! And what happens tomorrow when I don't show up for work? What happens in a few days when people find out I've disappeared? What happens when they find out Julie was the last person I was with? What -- " "You're getting yourself worked up again, Jay Welch. Don't you think we have thought of those things? We've brought you across one hundred years, Jay Welch." "Yes," Jay said quietly, flatly. "Yes." Then just as flatly, just as quietly he said, "Why?" "So you've remembered to wonder about that at last." Uaria smiled. Jay noticed that the smile was one-sided and pulled back the left corner of Uaria's mouth. He stood there and looked down at Jay Welch, who had forgotten that he was sitting on the floor. His tunic was white and there were three diamond-shaped silver pieces in a vertical line on each elbow-length sleeve. There was a wide blue stripe and a narrow silver stripe at the hem of his tunic and at his sleeves. He wore sandals. His belt was leather and there was a holstered pistol of some sort hanging at his left hip. In tiny blue script above his  left breast pocket were the words 'Trib. Ilaria'. On the pocket was a red disk with the letters PR. A silver-worked blue cloak was flung over his shoulders. Except for the identification and the odd fabric of his clothes and the holstered gun he looked very like a young Roman of the first century. Ilaria's slow smile pulled back the left corner of his mouth. "Because you are who you are and what you are. Because you attended the University of Louisville and Doctors Borley and Schink knew you. Because they chose you. Merely because they chose you. They might've chosen anyone else. "We've your personality pretty well mapped out. We expected violence. That's why I'm here. I'm a psychologist and an anthropologist. I'm a fast-talker and I can convince people and place them at ease. I'm also big enough to handle you, Jay Welch." From his position on the floor Jay looked up at Ilaria and decided the man from # was big enough. Jay Welch was six feet one inch tall. He weighed one seventy-three and wore a #-long suit. Kevin Ilaria was bigger. Jay was forced to grin. The tall blond man was a likeable guy, at that. A human being. "Who are you?" "Kevin Ilaria. Doctor of Psychology. That entitles me to the silver band on my tunic. Also a Tribune. That entitles me to the blue stripe and the three silver diamonds and the gun." "A Tribune? In what? Of what?" "In the Forces. In the actual ranks, a Tribune commands # men, # planes or a base, or # tanks. But I've never had a chance to go into the field. There has been no cause to fight. Meantime I'm stationed at Standiford Field as second-in-command. A friend of mine named Rinaldi fills in for me. He's a Sub-Tribune. "I've been specializing in the study of Time." "The way you say Time it sounds as though it were capitalized. Where I come from Time with a capital T is a magazine." Kevin Ilaria laughed. He reached down a hand. "Get up," he said, and, taking Jay's forearm, helped him to his feet. "Let's go," he said. Jay didn't bother to ask where they were going. He followed the Tribune out the door and into the hall. On the wall just outside the door, was a black box. Two squares cut into it shone with a faint white light. Ilaria paused and shielded the lighted areas a moment with his hand, and Jay saw the light go out in the room they had just left. Ilaria closed the door. As he turned, Jay saw the white letters PR emblazoned on the back of his cloak. "This way," he said. Jay noticed that Ilaria walked on his right, so that the Tribune's gun was between them. "The way I said Time, it is capitalized. It means all the Time since the beginning. It's a corporation, like your Duo-Point. Only much larger, and much less known. Our job is to learn." "That's a big order," Jay commented. "You learn by -- borrowing -- emissaries?" Ilaria laughed again. "Thanks for the phraseology, but it wouldn't worry me if you called it 'kidnaping' or 'shanghaiing.' You're right, of course. We learn by sending men from this age to other ones, and by pulling men from other ages to this one. Doctor Schink is our Emissary to #. His real name is Clyde Gabrinaldi. Borley is our contact there... rather, then." "Well I'll be damned! I've gone to Clyde a lot of times for advice." The left corner of Uaria's mouth pulled back as his grin widened. "Umn hmn. He's married, too. With a child. He's there for good." Jay was afraid to ask if emi saries from the past to # were "there for good" too. He changed the subject. "You started to tell me before -- " "Oh, yes. I'm to be your teacher and companion. But I'll try to give you a quick fill-in. Our world of # is quite different from yours. And, we hope, in better shape. We've proved that the only way to maintain world peace is by world government. And the only successful type of government is a dictatorship." Jay gasped. "You mean the entire world -- has reverted to dictatorship?" Ilaria laughed. "Not reverted . We finally accepted it as the only logical form of government for an entire world." "What happens when the dictator goes wild? He always has." The smile was there again. "You're not quite ready for that," Ilaria told him. "But, it has been taken into consideration." Out of the corner of his eye, Jay saw the slight puff of Ilaria's chest, the self-satisfied square of his shoulders, the quick set of his jaw. He wondered what part Tribune Kevin Ilaria played in the 'dictator control' this world had provided. "The system has worked and is working. See this?" They turned a corner in the corridor and faced a great domed room. On the far wall hung a white tapestry of something like # x # foot dimensions. On it, emblazoned in letters of red and yellow made to look like flame, were the characters PpB. In the lower right-hand comer, in white outlined with blue, was the same PR that Ilaria wore. Jay waited for the Tribune's explanation. "PpB stands for Pax per Bello," Ilaria explained. "Peace through War. That slogan was written in # by Julius and adapted in #I as official." "Julius?" "Yes. The first Dictator." Things were beginning to click in Jay's mind. "I think I know what PR stands for," he said. "Pax Romana." As always, Ilaria smiled. "That's right," he said. with the PR symbol pulled over and stopped. "What is it? Who are you?" the driver demanded. The Captain on the seat beside him peered into the blackness and cursed. The man who had waved the vehicle to a halt walked away. "Here!" the Captain cried. "What in blazes is going on here? Why'd you stop us? Centurion! Stop that man!" The two Centurions in the back seat looked at the Captain for a moment, then they both jumped out and ran after the man. An ellipsoidal grey thing streaked out of the darkness, landed in the driver's lap and thudded to the floor of the car. The Captain threw open his door and started to climb out. The driver bent over to see what it was. At that moment the driver, the command-car and the Captain blew up. The silence that followed was broken by the blast of a submachine gun as it struck down the two centurions. "Take their weapons," said a brittle voice. The detachment of soldiers from the garrison at Tel Aviv stopped and looked around. "Sir, what is it?" asked a guard anxiously. "Terribly quiet out here; something's up," the Lieutenant muttered calmly. There were seven of them. The Lieutenant, the Centurion, and five legionaries. They had grown accustomed to the quiet life of garrison men in a calm, conquered city. When there is nothing tangible to be guarded, a guard's life is a dull one. The guns they carried were the symbol of their authority, and had never been used for any other purpose. They looked around. The dirty, once-white buildings rose close on either side. There was no moon. There was no sound. The darkness and the silence could have been cut with a knife. The Lieutenant grinned. He didn't feel much like grinning. He spoke. He didn't feel much like talking, either. "This darkness is thick," he said. "You could cut it with a knife. Wish I had a knife." He got a knife. The men had just started to laugh when the Lieutenant got it. Between his shoulder blades. As the Lieutenant toppled forward, the Centurion dodged close against the dirty stone wall and yelled "Spread out!" They killed a lot of the shadowy, green-clad attackers, but there were only six of them and they were cornered. When the enemy drove a tank into the alley and sprayed them with its mounted gun they died. "Take their weapons' said a quiet voice. The half-track rolled to a stop. "Where, Sir?" the driver wanted to know. "Beyond that big crater over there. The sun glinted on metal. I'm sure of it. Didn't you see it?" "No, Sir." The driver craned his neck. There was nothing but barren rubble and bomb craters and torn, twisted metal and ruined buildings. "There are all sorts of old automobiles lying around out there, Sir," the driver volunteered. "Yes, and they've been here long enough to get good and rusty," the Captain snapped. "This is something else." The driver craned his neck. There was nothing but rubble. Eight men in the back of the half-track leaped to their feet when they heard the faint clicking of an old gamma gun and the sharp bark of a very old sub machinegun. But a grenade landed on the truck and another rolled under it. Another wreck was added to the rubble. "Take their weapons, if there are any left," said a quiet voice. A ND IN the more peaceful city of Louisville, Jay Welch was introduced to Kevin Ilaria's best friend, his adjutant at Standiford Field. Jay took a liking to Sub-Tribune Jason Rinaldi the moment he felt the fellow's firm grip. "Jason is adjutant," Ilaria explained. "And one of the few 'field soldiers' who manages to get along with Caesar's Pretorian Prefect, Lamberti. How he does it, I don't know. Lamberti's absolutely unbearable." "Prejudice. Middle-class prejudices," Rinaldi grinned. He was short and very dark with a lot of black hair. Ilaria's left cheek cracked into a long dimple as he smiled. "He picks on me because I'm a serious psychologist." Rinaldi laughed. "As a psychologist, Kevin, you're an excellent bridge player. As a soldier -- " "Just remember who's got three bars and who has two." Rinaldi waved his hand and shrugged. "They pass 'em out to psych boys wholesale," he said, and ducked Ilaria's swing. "Slow reflexes, too," he added as he turned to go.  Ilaria stopped him at the door and murmured a few sentences. Jay caught something about sabotage at Standiford. Rinaldi seemed to be attributing it to the Commanding Officer there. "Nice guy," Jay said as the door closed behind Rinaldi. "You said it. Good officer, too. He'll root out the bird who's playing around out there. Can't figure out why it's being done." "Factions," Jay said, " -- within factions." "Little ones always exist, I guess. Have you finished with the history films?" "I've seen them, yes. I'm still tryin g to digest them." "The language give you much trouble?" "Quite a bit, but I think I got most of it. "One man," Jay went on wonderingly. "One man. A Captain in the Italian Army. "The Communist forces in IndoChina had been driven back and Captain -- then Major -- Lollabrigida went in after them. "The defeat was becoming so terrible that the Kremlin dealt itself a playing hand rather than the dummy it had been playing. Red forces came piling in. Lollabrigida and his Italian troops stopped them cold. Then he seemed to sway. And, when the Commies pounced for the kill, they were trapped, pocketed, and annihilated. "American newspapers and commentators began to call Major Julius Lollabrigida 'Julius Caesar.' Italy became big overnight. The Big Three became Russia, the United States, and Italy. Lollabrigida appealed to America -- sometime in there they made him a Colonel, but he was actually telling the Generals and the Italian government what to do -- for aid in going ahead aggressively. "And America turned him down. They were still playing 'wait and see.' They waited. They waited too long. The Commies got tired of waiting around and sent a couple of jet bombers with A-bombs." "Now you're telling me things," Ilaria interrupted. "I'm pretty shady on that period myself." Jay shrugged. "It was after my time. All I know is what the films show. Two planes, each with a seven-man crew, and each carrying one atomic bomb, were dispatched from an airbase somewhere near Juneau." Jay stopped. "And?" The man from # choked. It was hard to be objective about this. It wasn't so easy for him to pass off as the film had done. "And -- " he hesitated. "It's over, Jay. It's done with. It doesn't even concern you anymore. It belongs to a past era." "One was headed for New York. The other struck farther inland... for Washington. The first one was shot down by an F-# border patrol plane. The other one got through. It -- it levelled the capitol. Almost completely. The White House and the Pentagon were destroyed." Ilaria sat quietly and waited. Jay didn't go on. "Thus removing the United States of America, as such, from a prominent position in the world picture," Ilaria said. "Yes. I can't understand it. didn't even get off the ground. And Colonel Lollabrigida, by then Commander-in-Chief of the UN forces, sent fifty planes, each with one A-bomb, over the Kremlin. One was shot down over Vladivostok, but the bombardier pulled the firing pin as the ship crashed and most of Vladivostok was destroyed. Six other planes made it to their destinations and dropped their loads. I can't remember the cities... one was a new super airbase near Moscow. Five of the planes returned. None had managed to reach Moscow. Half the world was in ruins. The Pope begged that the War be stopped." Ilaria snorted. "He knew they'd hit Rome!" Jay looked at him. "Is that what you think?" Ilaria shrugged and flashed that quick, winning smile. "There are no other motives, are there?" Jay stared. What changes had taken place in religious philosophy in this hard-bitten world of #? Kevin Ilaria shrugged, smiling. "That's unimportant. Let's go on with the history lesson. Then what?" "Uh-oh, yes. As I remember Julius Lollabrigida, to be trite, launched an 'all-out offensive' against Communist forces everywhere. People were afraid of Russia, but they were afraid of Lollabrigida and Rome, too. So they joined him. Aid poured into the UN. Czechoslovakia was taken and Poland and Hungary and finally only the old Russia of pre World War II days was left. And in they went. "Then Lollabrigida's saboteurs exploded an atomic bomb in the heart of Moscow. After that it was pretty easy sledding." "Astounding how a nation seems to fall apart when its capitol and its leaders are gone," Ilaria remarked. "Everybody and everything folds," Jay said. "Moral dies. "After the demolition of MosItaly stood at the top. General of the Armies Julius Lollabrigida marched back into Italy and into Rome and into the capitol and up on a pedestal. He stood as Italy's utter ruler. His last name was lost and replaced by 'Caesar II.' He was named Dictator. "From mighty Rome, Caesar sent out linguists and anthropologists and ethnologists and psychologists and military men and others. In twenty years, twenty peaceful years, Italian had become the language of the world. A few minor uprisings in America and in Japan and were smashed. Julius Caesar II was World Dictator of the Republic of Earth. Someone in America denied him and was torn to pieces by the people. Someone in Italy spread literature of dissension and was hunted down and liquidated by Caesar's personal police, the Pretoriani. And so it went. "Caesar adopted a prominent Air Force Colonel who became Caesar year on his birthday men were silent. No business was transacted. No one left his home. Except blueand-silver clad soldiers, wearing PR armbands. Caesar's Pretorians. No one dared venture out. every person in the world changed his last name to an Italian one. The Ali bens and the Chicos and the Andres and the Fritzes and the Johns became Marianos and Roccos and Caldinis and Campisanos and diManos." There was silence for a moment. "The thing I can't understand," Jay mused, "is why in all these years there hasn't been a 'bad' Caesar, or an uprising." "What do you mean by 'bad' Caesar?" Jay shrugged. "In the first Pax Romana there was Caligula, who was insane. Nero, who preferred artistic diversions to politics. There was Galba, who didn't know what was going on. And so on. And on and on. Your three dictators so far seem to have done excellent jobs. They, seem to be damned conscientious leaders." "When you re-create something," Ilaria told him, "you try to eliminate its faults." "Of course. But what if Caesar's son or a Caesar's adopted son goes bad?" Jay elucidated. "So far we haven't had that problem to deal with. But we're ready. Each time a new Dictator comes to power, one thousand top military men draw folded pieces of plastipaper from a 'bowl.' On twenty of these are X's. The others contain O's. The twenty X's are a secret organization, sworn to kill the Dictator if it should become necessary. When Caesar, as you say, 'goes bad'." he -- Caesar -- never knows who they are?" "No one ever knows," Ilaria said. "Not even the members. They remain in contact, but none ever knows who the others are." Jay remembered Ilaria' s previous mention of the system, and the unconscious swelling of the Tribune's chest at the time. "You're one," he said. Ilaria was caught off guard. "I -- yes," he said. "I won't ask how you knew." "A guess. Then you've been a -- whatever it's called -- for nine years, during Caesar V's reign." "That's right." "And you don't know any of the others?" "Only one. I found out acciden#  tally. He -- " Ilaria stopped. Jay shrugged. "I won't ask any more questions along that line," he promised. "But I still can't believe there haven't been any uprisings!" "None. Caesar II died of a heart tumor which we learned about too late. His son never had a chance to prove himself, other than that he was brave and foolish. He swam the Rubicon at its widest point, then walked to Rome in his shorts in the dead of winter. He died of pneumonia. Caesar V, our Dictator today, is strong and quiet. He holds the Empire firmly unified. But he does nothing extraordinary. And he is too lenient." "I just can't conceive of such perfection!" Kevin Ilaria smiled. He walked over to the window and peered out. "You couldn't. But this is the perfect government. Everyone is satisfied. One ruler. One capitol. One army. One language. One nationality. One world. One religion." "I realize -- " Jay halted. "One religion?" he demanded. "Yes." "What is it?" He found himself afraid of the answer. The indications were there, in plain sight. He guessed it before Kevin Ilaria turned from the window and said: "Caesarism." Caesar Imperator V turned from the window and rubbed his hand over his graying hair... "This is the first time I've ever run into anything of this sort." The President I of the Senate shrugged. He was an old man who had been placed in the Senate by his father in #. So long ago that people wondered when he would die. They were tired of these old men dictating to their ruler, as many people before them had been tired. The rise of the President of the Senate to leadership of that revered group had not been meteoric by any means. But his maintenance of the position had been tenacious. He was a careful man. The President of the Senate shrugged. "It is. It is the first time anything of this sort has ever come up, Julius. Therefore it is up to you to set an example." Caesar glanced over at General Bonadella. The General nodded in agreement with Senator Chianti. "This sort of business can break up the Empire if it's allowed to continue, Caesar," he said, in his pompous military way. "I say death." Major DeCosta nodded quietly. "Thumbs down all around, is it?" Caesar sat down behind his desk and picked up the speaker of his private cable to London. He looked at the three men. "Commander in charge of Garrison C," he said. There was a silent moment. They looked up as Prefect Lamberti of the Pretorians, the Imperial personal bodyguard (it had progressed far beyond that. Its enrollment was tremendous ; its power second only to the Dictator's) came in. The Senator nodded. The two field soldiers turned quickly away. The men of the field did not get along with the Pretorian dandies. "Commander? This is the Dictator," Caesar said unnecessarily. The garrison commander knew that only one person could call him on that line. The phone would react to no voice other than Caesar's. "Have you the fellow who was preaching dissension? I say one year in prison. You heard me. Yes, one year. What? No! No torture!" He severed connections and looked up at his advisers. Prefect Lamberti shook his head. Senator Chianti turned and stalked out. After a moment General Bonadella followed. The Major turned away to stare out the window. He shook his head. "del Ponta? This is the Dictator," that quiet, flat voice said behind him. Caesar was calling the underchief of the Pretoriani. "I will speak tomorrow from the balcony. Yes. #. Of course. World-wide. That's right. Oh, I suppose about a quarter 'til." The man who ruled the world stood up and stared at Major DeCosta's back. At forty-one, Caesar was a gaunt man with stooped shoulders and sad lines running from his nostrils to the corners of his mouth. His forehead was lined and re-lined, and the keen brown eyes were dulled with years of decisions and hard work. He was tired. They called him the Hound because his face bore the same sad, quiet look worn by those dogs. And they called him weak because he let offenders off too easily. DeCosta turned around. The young Major met his Chief's gaze. "Well?" The voice of the Dictator was quiet and calm. DeCosta's eyes flickered. He straightened militarily. He shrugged. "It is not for me to say, Sir." A slow smile spread over those weary features. "And you, Farouk?" Lamberti stretched out his arm and balled his fist with the thumb extended and pointing down. "You know me, Caesar." "I do. Even my best friend disagrees with my decisions now, after all these years of elbow-rubbing. "You are usually more outspoken, Major DeCosta. Have you nothing more to say?" DeCosta's reply was slow in coming but rapid in delivery. "I am around Caesar much of late," he rapped out. His back was stiff and military as he strode out of the Dictator's office. Prefect Lamberti's gloved hand dropped to the butt of his gun, but Caesar shook his head in gentle negation. Julius Caesar Imperator V gazed sadly at the closed door. son with Ilaria about God. The man was intelligent as well as brilliant -- there's a tremendous difference -- about everything else, but he was stubbornly obstinate to Jay's arguments. At least in Jay's terminology he was stubbornly obstinate. All faith is stubborn obstinacy. Kevin Ilaria's faith was appalling. His arguments were beautiful. Flawless. Jay thought of his old friend, Father O'mare. Even that great psychologist-priest would be hard-put, he decided. So he quit. He didn't give up. He just quit. Can you tell a man the Earth's flat after he's been up in a jet? Can you talk a bullet out of pursuing its path? Can you reason with a Marxist? "If a man can conquer the greatest enemy the world has ever faced, is he not God? If he can turn from and pacifying, is he not God? If he can make the world one, after twenty-two centuries of 'world anarchism' is he not God? If he can maintain the peace and keep the people happy and heal all sores is he not God? If he just looks at you when you call him 'God' or 'Savior # and smiles and say 'I ? # is he not God? If he chooses the perfect man to continue in his place, is he not God ? # "But that's proof! Why die? Isn't God immortal?" "Only God could realize that one man can't continue to reign indefinitely. His ideas, yes. But he must create another to carry on his ideas. There must be variety and diversions." Unshakeable. Unquestioning. Jay could never understand a person's sticking to the claim 'I'm a Christian' or 'I'm a Moslem' when he would be killed for it. Jay had always figured he'd have said to Nero's men 'Me? Me? A filthy Christian? Not I. I love Jupiter and Juno. Step inside and see my altars...' Now he was seeing what sturdy, rock-firm martyr faith was like. So he quit. Instead he learned about the gyrojet cars which hugged the roads like lovers on a honeymoon. He watched them sprout stubby wings and breathe flame and soar straight up. He learned about saying 'Open' to a lock and having the electronic device 'recognize' him and let him in. He learned about personalphones which 'recognized' your voice. He learned about the tiny pellet of potassium cyanide and sulphuric acid with which the guns were loaded. The pellets struck and broke and the victim was dead in seconds. Very humane. No maimed or wounded. Just the dead. He learned about self-shaping sandals -- the most comfortable and most sensible shoes man had ever worn -- and air baths and softvoiced alarm clocks which politely told you it was time to get up and about unbreakable ring-finger chronos and about atomic heating and flawless plumbing and he saw plastic, plastic, plastic. He learned about all of them. But his real delight was the depilatory cream. This, above all others, was man's greatest invention. "No shaving... no silly damned socks or tight, hot shoes or tie... no battery stalling or flat tires... I guess this is paradise, Kevin!" "And the perfect government and the perfect religion! All one race! One religion! One nation! One language! One nationality! One God!" Ilaria added exuberantly." "That reminds me. How come I never see any coloreds?" "Haven't you? By the way, no murderous car insurance or alimony laws, either. And no need for them. All marriages are ideal." Jay was readily detoured to this new novelty. "Now, don't let's go too far. Identical religion and race and customs and ideals and opinions may lower the' divorce rate a lot, but there's still ye olde sex angle. A couple can go together twenty years and break up on the wedding night. Some are hot and some are cold and some are slow and some are fast. The only thing you could have improved on, is sex education. It's astounding how many people of my time know nothing about the sexual part of marriage. The most important part! "Of course it's doing what comes naturally; but what if two people have been taught from different viewpoints? Or if one hasn't been taught at all? Some people are actually ashamed or embarrassed. There are intelligent people who don't even know the biological facts! Few -- especially women, know about the pleasure and the habit-forming angle. That's the one thing than can break up something beautiful in ten minutes. "Education, maybe. Human nature, no." "Whew!" "Excuse me, Kevin, for launchbeen my pet peeve. Atrocious, deplorable, and all that." "We don't usually tamper with human nature, Jay. As a rule, that is. This is going to come as a shock to you, with your silly, 'atrocious and deplorable' # ideas and morals. "A trial period. A pre-marital period of living together for a couple of weeks. If the couple isn't sexually suited, they either attempt to have it remedied by a physician or break off." "A shock, yes," Jay murmured, slowly shaking his head. "How did it ever start? Anyone who'd propound an idea like that in my time would be accused of being some sort of perverted sex-fiend! "A foolproof, flawless plan to insure happy marriages!" door swung open and a tall dark man with piercing black eyes and a twin-tufted beard came in. His dark-green garment, faintly resembling a trench-coat, was double-breasted and belted and military cut. His feet were encased in plastileather boots which clicked as he came to attention before the desk. The plate on the desk read "Praefectus Praetoriani." "Major del Ponta, Sir." The man behind the desk looked up. "At ease, Major." Major Ali ben del Ponta relaxed and waited. The man behind the desk finished scanning the sheet of micropaper, marked something on it with a stylo, stuck it in the pneumatube on the corner of his desk, and pushed the button to close his desk drawer. He looked up at Major Ali bel del Ponta. "Well?" He put his hands together, fingers touching. "It has begun, Prefect Lamberti. All over the world our local men are leading their followers in attack. Captain Abram Mazzoli has sent in his report from Tel Aviv. The city is in his hands. Captain Mahomet DiSanto's 'Raiders' have complete control of the Sahara. Captain Arnaldi's forces are firmly entrenched in the old Washington area of America. He will move northward to meet Colonel Magnani's forces from Canada and Commander Campisano. They -- " "Campisano's airborne ready to roll?" "Yes, Sir. Arrangements have been made. The drop will be just outside New York." "Alright. Then everything has gone off as scheduled?" "Yes, Sir." Prefect Farouk Lamberti regarded his deskchron thoughtfully. "And Caesar will make his speech in twenty-five hours and thirtythree minutes?" Major del Ponta glanced at his own chron, which was strapped to the third finger of his left hand. "Yes, Sir. At #, tomorrow." "Have the twenty-foot Visor screen activated for public showing. Mount it outside as we'd planned." "It's being taken care of, Sir. The screen is on its way to the Square. There will be a crowd." "Good. We all want to hear noble Caesar." Del Ponta grinned. "Yes, Sir. We all do. Especially tomorrow." "He doesn't know? -- or suspect?" "He shouldn't Sir. Our men took over and began covering up at once. You know the atrocious condition of world communications systems. The Empire could fall and Rome might not hear of it for days." "That's what I was counting on... that and the Disturber. The degeneracy of the field military is terrible. They are allowing themselves to get lazy and fat and careless." "Yes, Sir." "Have my car ready to drive to the Square behind Caesar's tomorrow. See that the covermen in the houses around the Square are doubled and double-checked. But when we go to the show, let's not have too great an exhibition of Imperial power. We don't want this thing to backfire and cut our own throats." "Yes, Sir." Del Ponta's grin widened. "Dismissed." Del Ponta came to attention, saluted and about-faced and left. Prefect Lamberti opened his desk drawer and took out his old service pistol. It was a gamma gun. He had not released any of the deadly, slowacting rays from its chamber in seven years. But it was ready. He opened another drawer and took out a white cloak, marked across the back with a blue dove and the single word 'Liberacione. He checked the pistol. get to meet Caesar?" Jay wanted to know. "Later. He's to make a speech tomorrow afternoon. It will be world-televised." "He looks very old and very tired," Jay ventured. He'd seen Caesar on transcriptions of old speeches and on old newsreels. "He's about... forty, I think. Somewhat weak. Very lenient." "I would've guessed him to be a good deal older." Then "Why weak? Because he's lenient?" Ilaria smiled. "Remember, Jay, 'Pax per Bello.' Too much leniency leads one's subjects to be bold. Over-bold." "One man's opinion?" The Tribune shrugged. "No. Caesar doesn't get along with his advisors too well. They criticize him for being too ready to forgive and forget." The more Jay saw of this perfeet world, the more he realized how cruel and hard people must be to maintain a paradise. If everyone is to be happy, someone must be unhappy. The trouble is, people don't like to be told "This is for your own good." Jay said so. "But if they're sat on hard enough," Ilaria rebutted, "They don't have a chance ever to try anything else which they might think is for their own good..." Jay nodded. Very true. As Ilaria left the room Jay went to the window and looked out at the Louistime in the seven days he'd been here, he wished he had a cigarette. They had been outlawed as detrimental to health long ago. The fact that it had been seven days reminded him of something else left behind. Julie. "You're a fool," he finally told himself. No wonder Julie'd been on edge and acting what he termed 'odd' lately! She was scared. He'd been out of school three and a half years. He was twenty-five. He'd just bought a new Olds. He'd begun buying his clothes at The Store rather than a store. Hell, he should've been married long ago. His days here were full. There were meetings with scientists and historians and militarists and linguists and everyone else Kevin could think up. He talked and listened and discussed and lectured. But he thought of her every night. Every morning before he rose. At times like this, when he was alone for a few minutes. Of course it was love! He'd always thought too many people threw the word around too much. He'd always been afraid to use it because he wasn't sure of its meaning. He's used it once. And he'd been kicked in the teeth by the girl. He hadn't used it since. When was a guy ever sure? Hogwash! Now he knew that each man forms his own definition. True, too many people used the word love indiscriminately. It's mistreated. Kicked around. Assumed and taken off. Dragged through messes and scandals and law courts and through the mud. But to a man like Jay Welch, to a man who has been afraid -- yes, afraid -- to use it, it must be there when he begins thinking in those terms. Love. He'd had to come across one-hundred years to realize he'd found its meaning. To realize he'd known its meaning a long time. To realize that love is whatever you make it, what you, yourself, call it. You define it yourself. Then you apply it. It had been there all the time. You don't include someone in everything you do and everything you think without it. You don't try to change her and yourself. To make her perfect. To make yourself perfect with -- and for -- her without it. This business about "accepting" little faults -- as well as big ones -- , he decided, is for the birds. It's human nature to translate other people in terms of yourself and try to change them in terms of yourself. To argue and be proud and hate like hell to have to make up. But you don't make a project of it with everyone. Not unless... He and Julie had a lot to talk about. Then he remembered where he was and when he was. He thought of Doctor Schink. And suddenly he was scared. He remembered what Ilaria had said about Schink. 'He's there for good...' "He's never said a word about my going back!" "Neither have you," came Ilaria's voice, and Jay whirled around to see the big psychologist coming through the door. "We'd like to keep you here as long as possible. But not against your wishes, of course. You were shanghaied, not kidnaped." The left comer of his wide mouth pulled back in that slow, reassuring smile. "I stand chastised. Now I've thought of it, though, I can hardly wait." "The day after tomorrow? I want you to hear Caesar speak. Then I want to talk a good deal more." "Early, the day after tomorrow." Then, little-boyishly, Jay hurriedly added a couple of reasons. "I'm getting tired of talking and being questioned. I feel like a talking animal in the zoo." Ilaria nodded, smiling. "Julie? "I figured it would occur to you sooner or later. Just because you think a little more deeply and carefully than most men of your time doesn't make you immune to love. That belongs to all times. Good luck and a lot of children." Jay grinned. He'd met Ilaria's wife and five of his six children the night before. He turned to look out the window once more. Beautiful. The elevated streets, with gyro-cars hurtling along... the sky full of more winged gyros and planes... the streets below full of happy, white-faced, whiteclad people... White-faced! "Kevin, you avoided my question the day before yesterday. I've been almost afraiB to ask you again. Why no Negroes?" "It will be hard for you to accept, with your antiquated democratic ideas." Ilaria breathed a deep sigh. "Certain elements of dissension and unrest, Jay, are better eliminated. Coloreds have always bred both. People are just like that. Whites and yellows and tans and reds can get along, but not blacks." Jay had gotten along with them all his life. "In ancient Rome there were slaves..." he said, trying to understand. "Not in this Rome. I said, better eliminated, Jay." Ilaria went to the window and looked down at the scene below. He explained: "We exterminated them." A hammer crashed down. A door slammed. A glass shattered. A siren screeched. A punch caught Jay in the solar plexus. Jay had experienced all these. Ilaria's flat statement was worse. "Exter -- No! Oh, No!" He swung around to face the big psychologist. Ilaria's usual smile was gone. He looked solemn and very grim. "You weren't ready for it. I don't think we can discuss it. Just remember this : When you've a bunch of dogs and they all get along with one another except one, you don't leave them together and you don't try to keep them separated by a chicken-wire fence. It's too unpleasant. You get rid of the troublemaker." forces moved out of Tel Aviv and took over Israel. They captured the entire devastated Washington area, a series of ten cities ringing Rome, and hundreds of other key spots. The world's largest airbase at Madrid, Spain, was taken. Forces sent to the aid of the base defenders were met by an onslaught of their own planes. The troops didn't have a chance. Dr. Montmorency Trumperi's Wave Disturber had been outlawed in #. The plans were carefully filed away and the machine's component parts junked. But the Disturber suddenly reappeared on the night of June #, #, and world communications were stopped. Lamberti's scientists had come up with a counter-radio mechanism, of course, so that the Rebels were able to maintain contacts. Louisville was not attacked. Lamberti and his men knew about the emissary from the past sheltered there, and informed their fifth columnists at Standiford they wanted both the Man From # and Tribune Kevin Ilaria alive. New York was attacked by land and air. Tokyo fell. Everywhere white flags with the blue Liberacione and the picture of a dove fluttered above smoking battlegrounds. Everywhere men were on the march. When Tribune Kevin Ilaria stormed in twelve hours later, Jay noticed his friend was wearing his gun again. The cyanide pistol had not swung at his hip since the day of Jay's arrival. He was also surprised to note that Ilaria wore boots and carried a steel helmet under his arm. There was a new quality in his voice. Brittle, static. The soft tones of the psychologist were gone. Jay realized that this was Tribune Ilaria of the Forces, not Dr. Ilaria the psychologist. "You sure you want to leave here tomorrow?" he demanded curtly. Instantly Jay was on the defence. "I am," he said coldly. Ilaria's smile looked forced. "I've been authorized to offer you a SubTribunate in the Forces." "What?" "You've had experience. None of us have. You've been in actual combat, in the Air Force." "Why? I don't -- " "War," Ilaria said simply. "Rebellion." Jay stared at him. He couldn't think of anything to say. Ilaria turned away. "Paradise. The Iron Hand. One religion and one language and all that. Utterly cock-sure. But... we were wrong. They've been getting ready. Training and planning. Collecting men and arms. They began even before the empire was established." -- Jay noticed he said empire rather than republic -- "All this time they've been preparing and planning and... waiting." Jay was dumbfounded. "How big is it?" Kevin Ilaria spread his hands. "Big enough. Their attack seems to have been simultaneous all over the world. Something like commando or guerrilla tactics. Quick, quiet attacks on a small scale." He told Jay about the Tel Aviv incident and about Captain Spagnoletti and a half-track disappearing in the rubble in the Washington area and about intercontinental communication being shut off. "Bomb 'em out' Jay said, without thinking. "You don't bomb out fifth columnists, Jay. "Last night they captured London and Tokyo and two-thirds of New York and they captured Lollabrigida airbase in Madrid. They're wearing PR uniforms and some kind of new uniform they've dreamed up. Most of them aren't even uniformed. It's a hell of a mess." "How long do you think it'll take to quell the thing?" "I have no idea. I'm to take command at Standiford Field. Rinaldi solved the saboteur problem... it was Colonel Di Orio. Rinaldi and some of his boys caught the Colonel and a few of his men in the Radio Room on the special 'Liberacione' wave length." "In irons?" Jay wanted to know. "No. They put up a fight. They were killed." "You're flying?" "Doubt it. I'll be one of those behind-the-scenes men. Supposed to be valuable. Only in a mess like this you can't tell what's behind the scenes and what's front line. They're liable to start on Louisville next." Ilaria hitched self-consciously at his gun-belt. He twisted his helmet around a couple of times before he set it gingerly on his head. He turned and opened the door and went out. His head came back in and said: "I'm not sure it's the sort of thing you quell, Jay." "Kevin! Wait! What'm I supposed to -- " He was gone. Jay thought only a moment. Then he switched on the phone. At least intercom systems were still in operation. The clerk at the desk upstairs looked at him from the screen. "This is the Man From #," Jay said, using the name by which everyone called him. "Stop Tribune Ilaria as he goes out." In an instant Kevin's head appeared. "I'll go with you. Shall I get my uniform before we go to Standiford or after?" Ilaria grinned. "After," he said. "Grab the elevator and come on )# up. This isn't your fight, Jay Welch, a voice told him as he opened the door. You don't even belong here, Jay Welch, the voice told him as he ran out into the hall. You're crazy to go to bat for these monsters, Jay Welch, the voice told him as he pushed the elevator button. You fought before for a bunch of people who didn't appreciate it one damned bit, Jay Welch. Remember about the Iron Hand and the Negroes, the voice told him as the doors opened and he stepped in. Remember you were shanghaied, it said, as the car shot upward and the bottom of his stomach felt as if it had been left behind. Remember you were going back to Duo Point and Herman's and Joe Scaccia's restaurant and Julie and tie and suit and Julie and the tight shoes and Julie and personal freedom and Julie and Jerry, the black guy you worked with and liked so well and Julie and the new Olds and Julie. Tomorrow you were going back. The doors shot back. He stepped out on the roof. "Mister Welcci?" said the clerk. "That's Tribune Ilaria's plane over there." He pointed to the little PR ship marked with the three silver diamonds of a Tribune and the staff of psychology. Jay ran. Wind was whipping across the roof and their cloaks streamed out and fluttered. The three men came together. "This is Commander DeVito, Jay. Commander, Jay Welch, The Man From #." The way Ilaria said it always made it sound capitalized. They shook hands. They got into the plane and shot straight up and the city was a blur beneath them. In less than a minute the little flier dropped down faster than any elevator and landed at Standiford. "Sergeant, Sub-Tribune Welcci needs a uniform. A -- " "Forty long," Jay suggested, then colored. Tunic and a hundred years made a difference in his size. He went with the supplysergeant, who gave him a correct fit the first time-times have changed, Jay grunted -- and fitted him with a helmet on the second try. He felt a tremor as he buckled on the pellet gun. With the cloak flapping about his heels and the gun banging his leg and the helmet biting his ear he ran to the elevator and down to the room Kevin had designated. The Tribune and Commander DeVito and five or six other officers were standing around a table in the steel-walled underground room. Before them was a gigantic map. They looked up as Jay burst in. "This is The Man From #," Ilaria said. There were hand-shakes all around that reminded Jay of fraternity rush. DeVito and one of the others wore wings. Jay wondered if that were still a pilot's insignia. The red X's on the map, they told him, were places under attack. The blue ones were areas taken by the fast-moving rebels. He learned that the messengerjet they'd sent to Rome -- they were lost without their instantaneous push-button communications system -- hadn't made it. More had been sent. Meanwhile they were on their own. The nearest major battle was at Chicago, where Cocuzzi Flight Base was located. Ilaria despatched Commander DeVito and something like fifty jet fighters to Chicago. The other man was in charge of a group of B-# Stratosonic bombers. They lifted their fists in stiffarmed salute and left. "The rest of the ships will remain here, ready for instant takeoff. I'll command interception. Sub-Tribute Rinaldi will command the base in case I have to go up. "I can't understand why we haven't been jumped yet. We must assume they'll attack Louisville because of Standiford and the Time Building. They'll also be interested in you, Jay." ville had not yet been attacked. Abruptly at #:# world communications went into operation. Everyone turned on his television set, wondering if Caesar's talk would go on as sceduled. It did. There was a screaming crowd before the Capitol. On the high balcony stood the Dictator. At his side stood Senator Chianti and around them were ringed Caesar's Pretorian Guards. The city was nearly empty of field soldiers. They had gone out to meet the insurgents. "People of the Republic of Rome." The noise subsided as Caesar raised his hands and spoke. "You have all heard of the revolt now in progress against us throughout the Empire." Ilaria nodded at the Caesar's psychologically clever use of the word us. "With your aid, my people, we can put a quick end to this treason. You have seen better than half a century of peaceful, successful government. These traitors and conspirators would attempt to overthrow our government and put an end to this peace... this Peace of Rome. "The world is now in a state of emergency. If you, my people, will bear with me through this period of crisis we will return to our world of peace and serenity once more." Cheers. Wild applause. "They believe him," Jay murmured. Ilaria looked at him. "Of course," he said. "For a long time our Empire has remained..." Caesar's face stiffened. The deepset, weary eyes blazed and widened. His hand reached out for the railing. Then he stiffened again and was limp as the bursting pellet of sulphuric acid and potassium cyanide took effect. Caius Julius Caesar Imperator V fell. There was uproar and clamor and shrieking. Jay and Ilaria stood, staring, as the Pretorian Guards levelled their guns and became a solid, surrounding wall. The T-V cameramen were getting the scene of the century. "Lamberti!" Ilaria bit out. The Pretorian Prefect, his hands outspread, stood on the balcony over Caesar's body. The white cloak with Liberacione on it fluttered about him. A couple of Pretorians came out with an amplifier. "Friends, Romans, Countrymen," said Farouk Lamberti. " -- every available long-range ship to Rome," Ilaria's brittle voice was hacking out orders. "Every one. Contact every other base while communications are still working!" "... a noble man. But not the man to govern Earth. No, not he nor his government. I bring you a new government. I, Farouk Lamberti, long his best friend, have done this not to him, but for him. For you. The Earth was not meant to be governed by a system of -- " "Yes, I said bomb Rome." Sub-Tribune Rinaldi smiled. "But Kevin, my friend, we can't bomb Lamberti just when he's getting a good start." Jay looked up. Kevin Ilaria spun around. "What?" "Never trust old friends, Kevin. Colonel Di Orio didn't. He surprised us in the Radio Room and we were forced to put him out of the way. Also remember this: all members of the Liberacione carry gamma pistols." Rinaldi pulled out his gamma gun and shot Ilaria through the middle. Jay was horrified. He forgot where he was and when he was and what he was doing. All he knew was that there was a cyanide gun at his hip and that this man had shot Ilaria. His gun came up and sputtered. The pellet caught Rinaldi just under the chin and burst. Rinaldi collapsed. "Had a -- gamma gun -- not... deadly. Slow-acting... radioactivity. Hardly... burned me. Come on -- we've got to... get back to the -- Time building." "Oh, no we won't. You're hurt. We -- " "Don't argue. Sergeant! Saaarguunt!" Ilaria gasped at the exertion of shouting. The Centurion ran in. "We've got to -- get to the -- Time building." "Rinaldi shot the Tribune. Rinaldi was a traitor," Jay explained rapidly. Uaria's gun clicked and the Centurion shuddered back and fell through the door. The gamma burst from his pistol hit the wall. "God! Is everyone a traitor?" Jay demanded of the Universe. didn't take them long to espouse the new cause. They were helped along in their decision by the Liberacione planes hovering overhead The whispering campaign Lamberti had carefully started about germ warfare helped, too. Those who didn't switch over rapidly were jumped by the new forces. Tribune Ilaria in Louisville, Kentucky, in America held out as long as he could. Then the bombers came. And the Tribune fled to the Time building. The building shook. A table shivered and a lamp shattered. A jet fighter flew close by the window and the Centurion watched fearfully as it flipped on one delta wing and fired a tracer burst into a PR ship. The defender exploded in mid-air. Ilaria looked twenty years older than the man who had smiled and welcomed Jay Welch to #. He and a young scientist were preparing the machine to send the man from # back to his own time. "You'll have to leave the gun here, Jay." Ilaria winced as he bent over a set of dials. "I'd like to keep the uniform." "All right. Does that do it, Doctor?" The scientist nodded. He looked at Jay. "It's ready," he said. "This switch sets everything in motion, doesn't it?" Ilaria asked. "Yes. That's the final control." "Then... I'll do it. I'd like... to say something to Jay before he leaves." The scientist hesitated a moment, then shrugged and left. The Centurion went to the door. He was a young man and fanatically loyal. "You all right, Tribune?" Ilaria smiled. "I'm... all right, Sergeant." The Centurion nodded and left. "Sit... sit down in that chair. Jay, and do your best to relax." Jay sat down. A bomber roared overhead. There was a blast nearby. "What will you do now, Kevin?" Ilaria shrugged. "Fight 'em 'til they come in and we're sunk. Then (Continued on page #) Illustrated by Kelly Freas The first successful non-Terrestrial divorce case! Fame for Legal Eagle Jose Ob anion for his generalship of a three-sexed, five Venusian history-shattering precedent! Habits are habits but -- alas! -- on Venus they differ... O NE OF these days an embittered lawyer is going to write a text on the effects of spaceflight on the divorce laws. This writer will be a Terrie, about five ten, with blue eyes, black hair -- turning grey very fast, and the unlikely name of I remember very well the day I was graduated from law school; the day my father gave me his version of the Obanion credo. Allways remember you live in a community property state -- That simple phrase has kept three generations of Obanions in the divorce trade. And only I have had cause to regret it. Basically, I suppose, my troubles began the day the Subversive Party swept the Joe Macs out of Congress and repealed the Alien Restriction Act of #. That bit of log-rolling gave the franchise to almost all resident aliens and resulted in a situation virtually destroying the sanctity of divorce as an institution. I'm a Joe Mac myself -- politically, I mean. Obanions have been voting the Joe Mac Party Ticket for more than a hundred years. Red is our color. There are even family legends that say an Obanion was with the first Joe Mac when he became President of that old unit the Euse of Aay. We have to rely on legends, unfortunately, because the Joe Mac Party traditionally fed their rally bonfires with books, and when they won the election and took over the Euse of Aay they had a rally to end all rallies and somehow the Government Archives -- books, you see, as well as punch cards and the like -- got taken over by some very zealous Party men. The records were always rather incomplete after that. Only word of mouth information was available during that first Joe Mac Administration, and that can be sketchy. For example, the party color is red. All we know is that first Joe Macs had something to do with red. You see how it goes. What I mean by all this, is that I can see the faults in my own Party. I'm no diehard. Nor am I a bad loser. The Subs won control of Congress by a landslide, so I guess the people wanted that sort of slipshod government. Only they should have been more careful, dammit, when they started tampering with the laws. I'm not antispacegook, either. I have my framed Legal Eagle's Oath right over my desk and I live up to it. And if Congress sees fit to make any Tmm, Dccck, or Harry a citizen of our great Commonwealth -- I account it my duty to see to it that they are not denied the benefits of our Terrestrial divorce laws. But sometimes it can be very trying. The new Sub Administration and their rash repeal of Joe Mac laws has had the effect of putting reverse English on the Obanion credo. Always remember you live in a community property state... That wonderful phrase that encompasses so many great truths -- that ringing statement that has made me rich and kept me a bachelor -- now means something else. Confusion. Work. Yes, and even spacegook depravity. the story at the beginning before I get too upset. My name, as I said before, is Jose Obanion. I'm a licensed Legal Eagle, specializing in divorce law -- and doing well at it. I have a good office on the #th floor of the Needle Building, a damned fine address and a comfortable layout, too. A whole room to myself, a private visor service to the Municipal Law Library, and a lapdesk for my secretary, Thais Orlof. On the day it began I was walking to work from the tube way station and feeling rather pleased with myself. My income was high and steady, my protein ration account was in good shape and I was doing my bit as a civilized Terrestrial. The morning was remarkably clear. You could make out the disc of the sun quite nicely through the smog, and there was a smogbow gleaming with carbon particles in the sky. I felt alert, expectant. pen to me. I could feel it. Even in the go-to-work press of people on Montgomery Street, I didn't get shocked once. That's the way my luck was running. And three characters brushed against me and got nipped by my new Keep-A-Way. There's been talk about making KeepAWays illegal. Just the sort of infringement on personal liberty the Subversives are famous for. Inconsistent, too. They pass laws letting every spacegook in the universe come here to live and then talk about taking away one of the things that makes the crowding bearable. I made a point of arriving at the office a little early, hoping to catch Thais in the act of coming in late. My secretary was a hard girl to dock, but I never stopped trying. It was a game we played. If she came in late, I would be justified in docking a protein credit off her pay for every thirty seconds of office time she wasted. So far I had managed to keep her pay low enough so she couldn't think of leaving my employ -- though she was earning a few prots on the side by acting as correspondent in divorce cases that couldn't be settled by Collusion Court and actually had to be tried before a judge and jury. Thais and I were still haggling over the price of her services as part-time mistress, too. I couldn't see giving her her asking price, which was half again the regular market price. Thais knew the value of a prot, all right. And of an erg, too. "Take care of the ergs," she would say, looking at me meaningfully, "and the prots will take care of themselves." Thais was a devout Ben Franklinist and she was full of aphorisms like that. I settled myself into my Lowfer and glanced over the desk calendar. A full, profitable day ahead. Tremmy Jessup and his new fiancee were coming in at # to sign the premarital divorce settlement. A wise couple, I thought approvingly. Save a lot of trouble later. At # Truncott vs Truncott and Truncott. A multiple divorce case with two women involved. Very lucrative sort of case. And then at # Gleda Warick was coming in to have me validate her Interlocutory decree. A formality. But I hoped to take her to lunch at the Palace where they were advertising a five ounce portion of genuine horsemeat on their five prot dinner. That sort of thing would impress Gleda and I rather hoped for great things from her. Not only that, she was spending # prots yearly on divorces. No Franklinist, she. It still lacked a minute to the hour so I switched on the TV to catch Honest Pancho's commercial. Pancho was my most active competitor and he cost me plenty, but I couldn't suppress a grudging admiration of his enterprise. He had Lyra Yves doing his stuff for him, and anyone as socko as Lyra was dangerous. Sweetheart of the Western Hemisphere is the way she was billed, and her agent wasn't exaggerating too much. Lyra was singing his come-on backed by a quartet humming a steady whap rhythm and doing a slow twitch. The lights were playing her daring costume big, accenting the fact that she had one breast almost covered. I frowned. How come the League of Decency let her get away with anything as suggestive as an opaque breast covering. Pancho must have friends in the censor's office. It was just another sign of the increasing degeneracy of our times. Soon entertainers would be appearing clothed from head to foot, exploiting the erotic stimulation of imagination. " -- whap me slap me baby doll," Lyra was singing. "Beat my head against the wall -- lover, I don't care at all at all -- Whap! Honest Pancho's on the ball!" Now the announcer cut in with his insinuating voice explaining how you could get your divorces quicker, cheaper and twice as funny at Honest Pancho's Big Splitzmart in the Flatiron Building, as well as his Legal Eaglery just down from the County Courthouse. tions to serve you. Come in and see Honest Pancho today!" And then Lyra again: "Whap! Honest She faded doing a sinuous twitch. I turned the TV off feeling a little worse than when I turned it on. Maybe, I thought, I've been too conservative. Maybe I'd, better get on the baaaalll, too. Or else. I shrugged the thought aside just as Thais slipped through the door -- exactly on time. I watched her strip off her smog mask and cinder cape -- on office time -- and place them carefully in the sterilizer. She was very careful not to smear the paint that was most of what she wore. I tapped a NoKanse alight and inhaled deeply. "Good morning, Thais," I said. "Whap!" she said in return. "I heard the TV all the way down the hall." She pulled a Lowfer out of the wall and settled down with her lapdesk across her knees. The tip of one sandal was just brushing my shin. The office, unfortunately, could have been bigger, but with city, space was rather costly even for a man with a better than average prot account. "New paint?" I asked. "Nice of you to notice, boss." She fumbled in the pockets of the belt around her naked, cerise-painted middle and took out her pad and stylus. "On time and ready for work," she said. "A calorie saved is a calorie earned." But now, somehow, I didn't feel like attacking the day's schedule. Not quite yet. Pancho's commercial had disturbed me. "Thais," I said. "I wonder if I'm -- well, slowing down -- " "You, boss?" She fluffed her greentinted hair provocatively and raised an eyebrow at me. "I wouldn't say so." "I don't mean that way," I said. "I mean professionally. I wonder if I shouldn't seek wider horizons." "New cases? Different cases? Give up divorce work? Oh, Boss!" "Not give it up, Thais. Not that. I couldn't. Divorce is my life. Could a doctor give up healing? Could a Freudist give up lobotomy? No, I didn't mean that. Frankly, I meant should I get more aggressive. Go out and get cases that would have a certain advertising value." I didn't want to say I didn't feel like spending good protein on the sort of advertising Pancho and some of the other Legal Eagles, an unethical lot really, were buying. Besides, we Obanions have always been rather frugal. Thais' face had come radiantly alive. "Oh, Joe -- " Now, that should have been a tip-off, because she never called me anything but boss. But I blundered right ahead because she was looking at me as though I were Clarence Darrow or somebody. "I have a case. A real case. If you would -- if you only would take it, you'd be famous. More famous, that is. You'd be really famous." I knew that Thais had some rather questionable friends, being a Franklinist and all. And I knew too that some of them were spacegooks. But The combination of Lyra singing for Pancho and the way Thais was looking at me made me get careless. "Tell me about it," I said in my best legal manner. Her face fell. "Non-terrestrial." And then she brightened. "But that's the whole point. These people are citizens of Terra now... and think of it -- you will be the very first Legal Eagle to represent them in a divorce case tried under our laws." Under our laws . Oh, I should have known. But almost all law is precedent. And I was blinded by trying a case that would set a precedent instead of follow one. Heaven help me, I said yes. "Where are these spacegooks from? And what time can they be in the office tomorrow?" "The Llagoe Islands on Venus," she said excitedly. "And they can be here anytime you say." "Okay, ten hundred sharp. What do they do and how many people are involved?" "They're musicians. And, uh, there are three. And two correspondents." She looked rather sheepishly at me as I raised my eyebrows and commented that even in this day and age of easy morality that was quite a number of 'people' to be involved in one divorce case. Too many, in fact. "Well, they are subject to our laws," she said doubtfully. "Indeed they are -- thanks to a Subversive Congress." I made a few notations on my desk pad. "Five of them, eh? A multiple marriage." Thais' voice was very low. "Well, no. Not exactly." "What then?" She looked at me resignedly. "Three sexes," she said. Gleda; as much as I should have liked to split a five prot pony steak with her. Instead of the Palace, I went to the library. The public library. And read about Venerians. What I found out was interesting -- and a little frightening, too. They were trisexual symbiotes. And they were only remotely humanoid. There were very few of them on Terra -- mainly because they relished their own planet's formaldehyde atmosphere so much they were extremely reluctant to leave it. When they did,... and this really interested me -- they generally became very wealthy as entertainers. They were accomplished musicians and -- of all things -- tumblers. For reasons that were only hinted at in the staid Encyclopedia Ter restria, Venerians never entertained through the mass media such as the Livies or TV. Their stuff was limited to small, elite gatherings and it cost plenty. I thought of Gleda Warick and the party she was planning for later in the week. She'd asked me to be alert for some good entertainment. Her friends were getting weary of games like Lizzie Borden and Clobber. Too many people getting hurt and all. Venerian tumblers and minisingers would be just the thing. And it would assure solvency on the part of my clientsto-be. Part of the Legal Eagle's Oath binds us to be concerned over our customer's finances. The next morning, promptly at ten hundred, I was treated to the first sight of my clients. Their names didn't transliterate into anything remotely pronounceable, so they were going by the names of Vivian, Jean and Clare Jones. After the first shock of seeing them wore off, I wrote on my pad: "Names used by humans of both genders. Significant." They spoke English, the current lingua franca , with only a trace of a sibilant accent and they smelled of formaldehyde. I explained their rights under our divorce laws. Did the best I could, that is, not being quite sure who was married to whom and under what conditions their marriage functioned -- if at all. Finally I said, "Tell me all about it." Clare, who seemed to be the spokesman for the group and therefore assumed, in my mind, a male gender, waved a boneless arm excitedly. "Had we known we were becoming subject to your Terrestrial laws by residing here we would never have remained. Our situation is desperate." I wrote on my pad: "Situation desperate." "Yes," hissed Vivian breathlessly. "Desperate." I underlined desperate . "We are, as you may know," Clare continued giving Vivian a dark look, "Trisexual symbiotes. You do not have any analogous situation among mammals on Terra." I glanced at Thais. "We sure haven't," she said with feeling. "But it sounds fabulous." "It is not, I assure you," Clare said running a four-fingered hand over his scaly crest in what I took to be a Venerian gesture of distraction. "We are not married as you people understand the term -- " "Not married," I wrote, underscoring it heavily. "But your law enforcement agencies insist that our symbiosis is analogous to marriage and therefore subject to the regulations governing that odd institution." "What a bore," Thais said helpfully. "Our problem is this. The three of us live in what you might roughly call a connubial state. We -- what is your word? -- co-inhabit? -- " "That's close," I said. "We live together, that is. But more than eroticism is involved, I assure you." "Of course." Now it began to sound like most of my other cases and I could get my teeth into it. "You seem doubtful," the Venerian said with a sharp-toothed frown. "Let me reiterate that what I say is so. The three of us have spent a ygith together -- that is more than fourteen of your long years. But now the ygith is over and we must seek another -- how would you say it? -- liaison?" "This is essential?" I asked. "Not just a whim?" It is, you see, the duty of a Legal Eagle to make every effort to save a marriage. In view of the circumstances, I felt that surely this was a marriage unique and therefore worth saving. "No whim," declared Clare emphatically. "Each ygith -- or what you Terrestrials would call 'mating period # -- we must uh -- realign. If we do not, deleterious effects are certain. Our health goes bad. We may even die . # "My friends , # I said, "you have very little to worry about. There are many similar cases here on Terra. Just last week, for example, a divorce was granted in the case of Nork vs. Nork wherein it was established that the plaintiff, Mr. Nork was allergic to Mrs. Nork. A simple case, and not the first of its kind. I myself tried one such case wherein a wife broke out in a rash whenever her husband sought to question her about the household expenses. A divorce was granted on the grounds of basic incompatibility . # "Ah , # Clare said sadly. "If it were only that simple. Our two correspondents, Gail and Evelyn, are ready to enter the realignment. But -- # and here the Venerian glared at the smallest of the trio. "this ungrateful wretch is uncumstances . # Great tears formed in Jean's slotted eyes. "How can you speak that way to me? After we've been through so much together ? # "Now, now -- # Thais, who has a very soft heart, patted Jean in an effort to make he she or it feel better. "Get to the point, Clare , # Vivian said testily. "It is our understanding that property held in joint tenancy by two contesting parties in a divorce case may be distributed at the discretion of the court . # "That's correct , # I said. "We contend, therefore, that Jean -- # Clare pointed a scaly finger at the small Venerian, "is community property. Vivian's and mine. We wish to make an agreement between us for the disposal of it -- # "Wait a minute " I said, shocked. "I don't think you understand the community property laws at all. Jean is, by definition, a person. A person cannot be considered property or chattel. Oh, no -- # The small Venerian made a face at them. "I told you you couldn't get away with it," she said. "This isn't Venus, you know." "On Venus you would be property," declared Vivian. And to me, he -- she -- I still get confused about this -- added: "My sex was emancipated thirty ygiths ago at home. But Jean's is still considered -- what did you call it? -- chattel. No vote. No rights. Nothing but symbiosis." "And Clare's is still the -- uh -- dominant one?" I asked hesitantly. "That's the myth that's perpetrated," Clare declared acidly. "We guths do most of the work, if that means anything." I wrote on my pad: "Guths -- breadwinners." "And who -- well, forgive my indelicacy, but -- # I shrugged mundanely, "who bears the children?" "We all do," the three Venerians chorused at once. Well, that's the way the interview went. When the three Venerians finally left I had a rough outline for the brief on my pad. Besides the other comments, I had the following information: Re Jones and Jones vs Jones, trsex smbytes!! See Ency Clare -- guth ) Terrestria Vivian -- warth  PP #, Jean -- ith ) Vol #, # Ed Jean -- Community Property? No. Not under Terr Law See US vs Ignatz Wolk #. What then? Correspondents : Evelyn (guth) Gail (warth) Any overt acts of infidelity? Probable. No proof. Only obstacle: Jean. Must reach agreement. and Defendant or Defendants and Plaintiff not solvent. Must arrange something. See Gleda. And see Gleda I did. I asked her if she could use not two, not three, She could and would. At # prots a head for an hour's entertainment. That took care of that much, anyway. I was, I felt, well on the road to making legal history. arrangements to meet Jean alone in a little bistro down on the Embarcadero. I felt the salt water air would make her-it feel more co-operative. But on the way down I became aware of someone following me. Cinder-caped and smog-masked, the tail I was dragging was inconspicuous enough, but I figured the thing about right. It was a Government man. There could be only one answer. Honest Pancho had tipped thing illegal or immoral. I was an active Joe Mac and that would be enough to put the Witch Hunt DiPancho getting wind of my dealings with the spacegooks. The gimmick would be, of course, that I was taking advantage of them, violating their rights under the V Amendment of the World Constitution. Pure falsehood, but my previous unwise political affiliations put me under suspicion. I looked up through the smog, and sure enough. An Eyespy hung in the air just over my head -- a tiny transmitter about as big as a half erg piece. If I spit on the sidewalk, I thought, they'll haul me in on the double. This was bad enough, but when and if I actually got the Venerians an interlocutory decree, I'd really have to watch it -- and them, to see that nothing went wrong. The WH boys would have Pancho right at their shoulder watching for the slightest excuse to invalidate the decree. I could get used to the Eyespy, and I thought I could convince Jean. And above all, I had to keep the Venerians from anything like sexual activity during the two day period of the decree. Nothing -- but nothing -- will invalidate a decree quicker than that. And an invalidated decree is very bad for a Legal Eagle's reputation. I was, I thought darkly, getting into this thing deeper than I thought. But the rewards would be worth it. Think of it. To Legal Eagle the first extraterrestrial divorce case in the history of the world! Holy Protein, I'd be in song and story. I made my way through the press of people on the slidewalks, my KeepAWay crackling a jolly tune, and the Eyespy hovering over my head. San Francisco is a wonderful place. Full of excitement and bustle. It's a port of entry, for one thing, with starliners letting down into the Bay from all over the Solar System. On the Embarcadero there were Sandies from Mars, Rooks from the Jovian System -- every sort of spacegook there is. Except Venerians. And mingled with the crowd I could make out the distinctive cinder capes of the Longshoremen -- absolute rulers of the district. The bistro I was looking for was a floating platform moored to the ancient wharves, the ones that were left after the tidal wave caused by the bomb back in '#. It was a nautilus type joint, most of it under water, called the Deep Six. An attendant took my cape and smog mask at the door and bowed me along to the maitre d "A table, sir?" He clapped his hands for a waiter. "May I order you something? A morphine syrette? Phenobarb? We have a particularly fine aphrodisiac cocktail, sir. Or shall I just send the hostess to you and you can order later?" I eyed the line up of girls regretfully. They were all lovely, all almost fully clothed -- and what flesh was exposed was completely unpainted. If Thais looked like that, I thought sadly, I wouldn't haggle about her price. But that was sheer depravity, I told myself sternly. That's what comes of associating with triple sexed spacegooks -- I was here on business. Not pleasure. "I'm meeting someone," I said. "A spaceg -- a Venerian uh -- lady. Miss Jones." The maitre shrugged. "Everyone to his taste. The person you wish is at the corner table, sir. Near the window." And sure enough, there was Jean, her crest waving agitatedly as she pressed her three nostrilled nose against the glass watching the sandsharks swimming gracefully among the mossy pilings outside. "Oh, Joe -- just like home " she hissed softly as I sat down. She was very strong of formaldehyde today, I thought. I didn't quite know how to begin with her. I had to make her see reason, but she seemed to be me at all except to comment that Clare and Vivian were very cruel to her. "And after I've given them the best ygith of my life." Then she returned to her melancholy contemplation of the underseascape beyond the glass. I ordered an alkie-and-treacle and sipped it thoughtfully watching Jean. An amber tear had formed in the outer corner of each slotted eye and was oozing gelatinously down her pale green cheeks. It was like someone turning on a light in my brain. The answer was plain as day. Jean was homesick. Miserable. And a miserable woman -- or man -- or -- well, does it matter? -- a miserable person was always contrary. Remove the misery and voila -- gentle as a lamb. "Jean  # I said, "this case is important to me. You must help me get the decree. If you do -- I'll do something nice for you." Over my head the Eyespy clucked reproachfully, but I ignored it. "Agree to the divorce. We can settle it in Collusion Court. And I'll see to it you get passage back to Venus on the first available starliner. How's that?" "Back to Venus? Back Home?" Her eyes gleamed redly. "That's a promise," I said. This would cost me plenty of prots, but the fame would be worth it. You can see how far gone I was on this case. "Just one thing," I added thoughtfully. "What will become of the rest after the divorce? I mean, can two of each sex get along without a third? It sounds, well, almost unvenerian, if you know what I mean." "The mating wouldn't be a very high-type experience," Jean said loftily, "without an ith -- but it can take place. It's just the sort of disgusting business you could expect from people like Clare and Vivian. And those other two -- well -- you haven't met them, but really -- " "Then you'll do as I ask?" Jean waved her crest at me seductively. "Joe Obanion, you're really very nice." I backed away and swallowed hard as Jean laid a slick, webbed hand on my wrist. "How about it? Agreed?" "You know," Jean said dreamily, "you remind me of a warth I used to know back home. He and I and a really divine guth called Charlie had the most marvelous ygith together. I wonder if he remembers little me -- ?" "I'm sure he does. How could she forget you?" I asked warily. Jean blinked her slotted eyes at me and her thin lips split into a tusky smile. "You say the nicest things, Joe. Yes, baby, I'll do as you ask. I won't contest the divorce." "Jean," I said with feeling, "you'll never regret this." And the Eyespy clucked disapprovingly. Drop dead, Pancho, I thought. Drop dead twice. I had made it. mansion, really, lay sprawled over most of the Twin Peaks Area. From her Lunar Room you could see the whole of the city stretched out as if for inspection. To the east, the bay and the floating housing developments, wharves and night spots on and under the water. To the west the transocean highways, ribbons of plastic floating on the still Pacific. No one could afford to run ships now and almost all surface commerce was run over the highways in caravans of atomic trucks. To the Orient, to Alaska, to the Pacific islands. A steady string of lights moving at two hundred miles per hour. Rocket trails streaked the sky as starliners splashed into the bay and burbled to the surface, hissing and steaming. Market Street -- all seven levels of it -- ran from the base of the hills to the bay, a multilevel slidway jammed with people. The view from Gleda's place was magnificent because of the infra-red antismog windows she had installed in the Lunar Room at a cost, incidentally, of # prots. She had three rooms and a kitchenette. You entered her place and almost had an attack of agoraphobia. It was that big. The place was overrun with people. I'd brought Thais, of course, resplendent in red and silver paint. Lyra Yves appeared in a solid coat of gilt, with that one breast and her left arm sheathed in flexible vinyl. Thais nudged me. "Look at that. I think it's disgusting. # I did look. I couldn't help myself. That shiny vinyl caught the eye of every man in the room. "Depraved," Thais sniffed. Honest Pancho came in with an older man who was pointed out to me as an ethnologist from the University of California across the bay. A Professor Cripps. Pancho, dressed in his customary green and orange enamel and embroidered cowboy boots, stumped across the room to give me the big hello. "Jose, my boy! Good to see you... He glanced up at the Eyespy. "Trouble with the Witch Hunters? Tsk tsk -- # "As if you didn t know, # I snapped. "You think I'd do a thing like that to a friend ?" "Yes." He grinned a big toothy smile at me. "As a matter of fact, you're right. I hear you've got a big case. Non-terrie. Worth a lot to a Legal Eagle to be the first with a nonterrie case -- # "You're too late, you vulture," I said. "Interlocutory decree granted." I tapped my pouch. "Right here." He shrugged. "Hope nothing happens to void it, old sport." He winked at his silent companion, the staid and seemingly dumb professor. He turned back to me. "Sorry. Should have introduced you. Prof Cripps -- this is my friend and competitor, Jose Obanion." "Pleased," the Professor said, looking fearfully at the Government Eyespy over my head. His fingers went automatically to the engraved tablet he wore on a chain round his neck -- a validated Loyalty Oath -- as though to show the really a friend of this Joe Mac's. "The Prof," Honest Pancho said softly, "is a specialist in Venerian ethnology. He'd like to meet your clients." That gave me a start. "He'll meet them. They're going to sing tonight." The Professor's eyes widened. They looked shocked in his yellow painted face. "And dance?" I smirked happily at Pancho. "And dance. At # prots each." If Pancho had any reply for that, I don't know, for Gleda came in. She was wearing her hair blue and she wore a really striking pattern of iridescent blue paint with a double snake pattern coiling up her legs and torso. The party got under way very quickly. Gleda supplied the alkie and treacle and everyone nibbled their own synthetic protein out of their pouches. The combination soon had an hilarious effect on the gathering and a couple that I didn't know, a boy and girl in particolored green and blue, starting throwing small articles of furniture at the Eyespy over my head. Couldn't hurt the Eye, of course, but I was kept pretty busy dodging. Then Thais suggested a quick game of Clobber. I must confess, not without satisfaction, that I cheated a little and peeked through the bandage so I could land a real lulu on Pancho's long pointed nose. When Gleda stopped the bleeding and he was on his feet, someone asked Lyra for a song and the cry was taken up by all. I caught a glimpse of the five Venerians' round eyes peering at us out of the kitchenette. But Gleda was saving them for the last -- the piece de resistance. Lyra tore down a drapery and staggering a bit from two or three too many alkie-and-treacles, wrapped herself in it from head to foot. There was a shocked sort of gasp from the watchers. Professor Cripps turned red under his yellow paint. Gleda put a tape on the MusiKall and Lyra went into her act. I've never seen anything like it. Swaying like a cobra, her bare feet pounding out the beat on the plastic floor, she raised the temperature about ten degrees in that room. Her green painted lips twisted in agony, her eyes rolled in the chromatic mask of her face. An old folk tune -- not the sort of thing she generally did. Something that really tore at the heartstrings. A song that dated centuries back. History and the sense of our way of life lived in that room for a few short moments. Her voice was a blood-stirring trumpet -- "Mairzy Doats and Lammsy Doats And little kiddsie Divy -- A Kiddlee Tivy Tooo Wouldn't you -- ?" When it was over, there was a breathless hush in the room. I wondered where in the world Gleda had gotten that MusiKall tape -- It had probably cost her plenty. There was only one thing, I thought, that could top that. "Gleda," I said. "Now" Besides if the gooks didn't earn their prots, what about my fee? I was already losing protein on this deal. Passage to Venus isn't cheap. The Venerians trooped in and squatted on the floor while Gleda made the introductions. The room began to smell very like an embalming room must smell. "May I present Clare, Vivian, Gail, Evelyn and little Jean. They're going to sing for us." Cheers from the guests. I glanced triumphantly at Pancho. The Professor seemed fascinated. "And," added Gleda archly, "they may even tumble for us." The Venerians looked at one another, tittered and flushed dark green. I was glad to see they were all on friendly terms with Jean. Clare struck an attitude, crest erect, and waited until everyone quit shuffling around. Presently, they sang. I think it was singing. Very cultural. Very esoteric. Also very noisy. It sounded rather like they were all in pain. After what seemed to me a very long time, they grew silent. There was a smattering of discontented applause. Gleda glared at me. I looked at Thais in dismay. "They also dance," she said weakly. "Yes," Pancho said. "Let's see them dance!" "By all means' Gleda said, still eyeing me. "Dance, fellows," I said hopefully. Jean came over to me and whispered: "Are you sure it will be all right?" "Do you want to ruin me? Dance. Tumble. Dosomething." Jean shrugged and went back to where the Venerians squatted. "He says dance." Evelyn and Gail stepped properly, I should say primly, aside and the other three began stomping about. The rhythm was infectious. The movements became more heated and shouts of approval began to ring out. "Dance, Gookie!" " Whapperoonie ! " "Go go go Gook!" I was delighted. So was everyone else. The dance grew more and more violent. There was a great deal of body contact in it. Evelyn and Gail looked longingly at the gyrating three, but kept out of it. I wondered why -- never knowing that the Venerians are a very conventional people. Pancho was delighted. So was the Professor. In the middle of it, the prof raised his hands and made a signal. An earsplitting clangor broke from the Eye spy. The Venerians stopped. Everyone stared at the Eye. And at me. The Professor stepped forward and flipped his Loyalty Oath over, it opened like a poison-ring. The Division. "The Interlocutory Decree, if you please," he commanded. Stunned, I fished it out and handed it over. He glanced at it. "You realize of course that this is immediately invalidated." "What?" I couldn't believe my ears. "You know -- as any Legal Eagle should know -- that any restablishment of -- uh -- connubial rights abrogates an interlocutory." "Of course I know that." He glanced at Honest Pancho and smiled. There was triumph flashing between them like a shuttlecock. "You Joe Macs never learn. The law is the law. What do you think your clients were just doing -- and in front of a roomful of witnesses?" I felt my heart sink. "You mean -- ?" Cripps nodded. "That?" I asked weakly. "That" he said, and tore up the paper. I watched my future as a Legal Eagle flutter down to the floor. "And I thought they were dancing," Thais said sadly. Well, the story doesn't end quite there. Gleda and I were arrested for running an obscene show. Gleda doesn't speak to me anymore. Nor do any of the people who were there that night. Lyra and Gleda get all their divorces at Pancho' s Splitzmart now. It took most of my prot account to bail us out and pay our fines. Thais is with me. We're married and we haven't a prot between us for a divorce, so we'll just have to stay married. The Venerians came out all right though. They were deported.    Illustrated by Paul Orban the gun runners George Dolan had four immediate problems: the timetranslator, a beautiful, out-of-this-world girl named Moirta, the gun runners and his life . A situation in which he finally triumphed... But what can you do with a victory that lies at the other end of a bridge # years long? professionals, and except for one minor detail the operation had been very well planned. The middle twentieth century was chosen as a source of supply after a careful survey of all factors pro and con. The gun-runners did not want the mass weapons of their own day, they wanted selective weapons which could be used for private murder. In the mid-twentieth century, the level of technology was such that well-made and reliable weapons were available; and at the same time, social control was still sketchy enough to permit quiet procurement of such merchandise, if one knew how to go about it and was suitably financed. The gun runners, two men and a woman, knew how to go about it, and they were suitably financed. The profits in their business were commensurate with the risks -- which were not small. In their world unauthorized time travel was highly illegal, because of certain possible undesirable effects on the total space-time continuum, and was severely punished. Moreover, it was personally uncomfortable and dangerous. si Si-sSssSSffl wmmk mm i mm They came from an old ingrowing world which had never reached the stars, where there were only men and their works, no blade of grass or micro-organism or sparrow which did not directly serve men. In their time, hereditary traits which had meant untimely and certain death in earlier times had persisted and multiplied. Immunities and instincts which had fitted men to live with tigers and streptococci, and seek their food in the wilderness, had atrophied. The twentieth century was a dangerous environment for these people, more so perhaps than the Eocene would have been for homo sapiens. In preparation for their venture, it had been necessary for them to undergo a drastic and painful series of tests, inoculations, conditionings and plastic surgery. Unfortunately, it had not occurred to them that their time machine might need similar protection. The equipment was basically electronic, and the power leads were encased in a new insulation, a synthetic protein which in very thin films afforded a near perfect dielectric. It was also, as it happened, an almost perfect culture existent in the sterile future, but healthy and thriving and full of appetite in the twentieth century. When the gun runners prepared to return to their own time with their cargo of contraband there were small flashes of fire, and smoke curled briefly from various parts of the equipment. Their temporal environment remained unchanged. The gun runners were not technicians, they were specialists in other fields. They pulled and prodded uncertainly here and there, pushed the buttons again. Nothing happened. The senior gun runner, a man who wore in this century the appearance of a quiet, gray-haired professional man, and who wore in any century the habit of command, came to a decision. He spoke in their own language, a language time had pruned to telegraphic brevity: "If tamper, make worse. Electronics technicians this era. Use." The second man raised an eyebrow. "Knowledge adequate? Time travel not simple." The older man shrugged. "Theory not simple, machine simple. Savages clever fingers. Adequate stimulus, can solve." "And after? Disposition?" "Displacement effect. Or -- " the senior gun runner sketched a quick gesture of pulling a trigger. The younger man nodded slowly, still dubious -- which was proper, it was his function to be suspicious and questioning, as it was the other's to command. "Stimulus?" "Profit. Curiosity. And... Moirta." Both men turned and looked appraisingly at the woman, who had not yet entered the discussion. She was a very narrow specialist, within the wider specialty of gun-running and murder. Now she moved her shoulders uneasily. "Displacement effect," she suggested, "near limit. If caught -- " she made an unpleasantly suggestive spastic gesture. The chief gun runner shrugged again. "If caught," he repeated the gesture she had made, "in any case. No choice. Find technician now." visitors thoughtfully. "Well, actually," he said, "our work is design, not repair. I suppose I could send a man out to look over your job and recommend a firm to handle it. Is that what you want?" "Mr. Dolan," the gray-haired man said earnestly, "I am afraid you still misunderstand me. The work we wish done is small in scale, but very intricate and delicate, and highly confidential. We have investigated your qualifications, and you are the man we want to handle it, you personally. We do not want you to mention this work to any other person -- not even your wife." "I don't have a wife," Dolan said. "That's no problem." He hesitated. "Do I need security clearance? That'll take time." "No security clearance. This is private work." Dolan frowned. Private work, money no object,very secret -- there were implications to this offer which he did not like. On the other hand -- His eye strayed to the young woman who sat quietly beside the man, silently exercising her specialty. The plastic surgeons of her era had done a beautiful and nearly perfect job on her body; but bonedeep, in ways an observant man could sense, she was still not a twentieth century woman. In a city full of women who made a profession of being young and handsome, she too was young and handsome, but different. Dolan was an observant man, and a curious one. He looked back at Brown. "If you could just give me some idea -- " he said tentatively. "The equipment, as I have said, is very intricate, and we are not technicians. We prefer that you make your own diagnosis." Dolan pursed his lips uncertainly. He glanced again at the girl. "OK," he said at last, "I'll look at it. I can't promise anything." He punched a button on the desk intercom. "Betty, I'm going out to look at a job with Mr. Brown and Miss -- uh -- " he glanced at the girl. "Jones," the gray-haired man said. "Miss Jones." "Oh, yes, excuse me." Dolan smiled at the girl and drew a brief quirk of the lips in response. " -- with Mr. Brown and Miss Jones," he continued. "Be back some time this afternoon." "OK," he said to his clients. "Let's go see this intricate and delicate problem." For reasons compatible with the profession of gun-running and the nature of time travel, the time translator had been located outside of urban limits -- the city was to be rather systematically bombed in the near future -- on a secluded and stable granite dike, within the shell of a frame cottage. Dolan observed all this without comment. They were met outside the cottage by a man about Dolan's age. "This is my colleague, Mr. Smith," Brown introduced him. Mr. Smith offered his hand. As he turned to lead them inside, Dolan noticed that the light summer jacket Smith wore did not drape well over the right hip pocket. He filed this fact also for future reference. "And here' Brown said, "is the machine we wish repaired." In the center of the room was an orderly jumble of shiny black geometric solids, laced together with wires and bars of silver, the whole mounted on a polished ebony platform. It was handsome, in a bizarre sort of way; but certainly it did not look like any electronic gear Dolan had ever seen, and he had seen almost all there was, at one time or another. He studied it carefully, turning it this way and that in his mind, trying to find some familiar feature to grasp it by. There was none. "Well," he asked skeptically, "what is it? What does it do?" Brown shook his head. "The purpose of the machine must remain secret," he said firmly. "We think the trouble may be superficial, some minor thing an expert could quickly repair; and we wish you to work on it from that viewpoint, without inquiring into its purpose." "I see," Dolan said noncommittally. The whole business was screwy. For two cents, he thought -- He glanced at the girl. She sat quietly on a chair, hands folded demurely in her lap, watching him, practising her specialty. Well, maybe, he thought, it wouldn't hurt to look, as long as he was here anyway. He walked over to the equipment and bent to examine it. The silver conductors seemed to be uninsulated, although in places they were closely paired. He frowned and scratched tentatively at one with his fingernail. The metal showed bright. There was a slight tarnish, that was all, no insulation. He noticed something else. Back of the equipment, at an angle unnoticeable from the side he had first approached, were several cut and dangling wires, some of which had been partially replaced by quite ordinary high tension cable. Spread about on the floor were lengths and coils of wire. "You've been working on it yourselves?" he asked Brown. "No, no. As I told you, we are not technicians. Before we contacted you, we had already tried another man. He proved unsatisfactory. We, uh, paid him off and sought a better qualified person." "Unsatisfactory, eh? Umm, I see." Dolan's eyes moved thoughtfully to Smith, who lounged carelessly just inside the door. The coat now hung smoothly, it was only when Smith moved that the hint of a bulge showed. Dolan was a curious man, but also a prudent and thoughtful one. He decided he did not want this job, it was time to get out. "I'll have to go back for some equipment," he said casually. "Gan you drive me in?" He knew immediately that it was not going over. Brown frowned and sucked thoughtfully at his lower lip. "If you could make a list," Brown offered, "I could get it for you. You could then be making a preliminary survey while I am gone. There is a question of time involved, we wish these repairs made as quickly as possible." "Well... I'm not sure..." "Miss Jones," Brown said persuasively, "is as well-versed as any of us in the operation of the equipment. She could answer any questions you might have." The girl smiled and nodded. Smith, lounging by the door, casually moved his hand to his belt, sweeping back his unbuttoned jacket slightly. Brown stood waiting. Dolan studied them silently for a moment. They couldn't force him to take the job, he could simply turn them down and walk out. Or could he? For some reason he did not quite understand, he was just a little reluctant to test the idea. "OK," he said shortly. He took his notebook and began to scribble a list of equipment on a blank page. A message, he wondered, like they do it in the movies? A request, maybe, for some outrageous piece of equipment that would tip off the boys in the shop? No good, they weren't that smart, and for that matter neither was he. Besides, what did he really know? Nothing, except that he just didn't want this job very much. He tore the page out of the notebook and handed it to Brown. Brown slipped it in his pocket and went out. Dolan turned to the girl. "OK, Miss Jones," he said. "Now let's see what we can figure out about this gear." He strolled completely around it, eyeing it from all sides. "Well... he said dubiously. "First, I guess, control. How do you start it up, make it go?" "We push these buttons, in this sequence," the girl told him. Shfe moved her fingers lightly over a series of studs set in a small cube. "OK, push 'em. Let's see what happens." "Nothing happens," the girl said. "The machine just doesn't work." "Well, then, what's supposed to happen?" The girl looked unhappy. "I'm sorry," she said finally, "didn't Mr. Brown say you weren't to ask such questions?" "OK," Dolan said resignedly, "we'll let that go then. How about this : What indications do you have when it is operating normally? Anything light up, move, buzz, hum, spin around?" The girl frowned thoughtfully and shook her head. "Nothing lights up, moves, buzzes, hums, spins around. When the machine works, it... well, it just works, and that's all." She studied him with troubled eyes. "You are an expert, it seems to me an expert should be able to look at a machine and see what parts are faulty, isn't that true? Why must you know what the machine does?" Dolan leaned back against the machine and lit a cigarette. He squinted thoughtfully at her through the smoke. Well, what the hell, with looks like that, why should she need brains? "Miss Jones," he said patiently, "I gather that you aren't a technical person?" "Not with machines, no." It was an odd sort of answer. Did it imply that she had a technical knowledge of something other than machines? Dolan considered it briefly and decided to pass it up for now. "I am a technically trained person," he said, "an expert as you say; and I can tell you this: machinery, electronic gear, anything like that, is built to do a specific job. Before you can design, build, or repair such equipment, the very first thing you have to know is: what do you want it to do? For all I know, this machine here may just be an overgrown coffee percolator. Now, suppose I go ahead and fix it with that in mind, and when I get done it makes beautiful coffee, but it turn out you wanted all along for it to get television programs, you're going to be terribly disappointed. You see now why I have to know what it does?" The girl nodded seriously. "Yes," she admitted, "I can see that; but I'm sorry, I still cannot tell you the purpose of the machine." She glanced uncertainly at Smith. He shook his head minutely. "Perhaps," she said, "when Mr. Brown returns -- " vince easy. Dolan puffed angrily at a cigarette, while Brown and the girl watched him impassively. "Damn it," he said, "it just won't work like this, that's all there is to it." He kicked savagely at the base of the machine. "All I'm doing is chasing my tail in circles. I know what part of the trouble is now, somehow you've lost the insulation on your conductors -- burned up, evaporated, blew away, God knows what. Anyway, it's gone. But I can't just spray some gunk back on and have it work like new, we just haven't got that kind of insulation. Where' d you get that stuff, anyway. Can't you get some more?" "It was specially made for us," Brown told him. "We cannot get more at... present." "I see." There had been a very slight accent on the "present". Did it mean anything? And if so, what? "Well, I can rewire it for you, use standard stuff, it won't look pretty but it might work, only what should I use? I don't know what it needs -- high voltage cable, or bell wire; shielded or open. I've got to know what you've got in these black boxes here -- " he pounded gently on one, "before I know what to feed them." He snapped his cigarette into a corner, gloomily watched the smoke curl up from it for a moment, then walked over and stepped heavily on it. "So that's it," he said definitely. "I've been fooling with this thing all day, and that's just exactly as far as I can go. It's up to you people, you can give me the dope, I can't promise anything even then, except just to try; or you might as well pay me off. I can hang around here and put in more time, but you won't be getting anything out of it." Brown studied his fingernails absently. "Perhaps you are right," he said slowly, "However, I cannot act without consulting with Mr. Smith, and he has gone into town to get some food for you, I am sure you must be hungry. When he returns, I will let you know our decision." "OK." Dolan mopped at his face with his handkerchief. "God, it's hot as an oven in this shack," he said. Miss Jones smiled in sympathy, though she looked cool enough. "Come on, Miss Jones, let's get outside and cool off a bit." "I think that would be nice," she agreed. It was just turning dusk outside, and there was an agreeable breeze coming up the valley. They walked over and sat down on a rocky ledge. "Tell me, Miss Jones," he said suddenly, "do you like it here?" "It's very pretty," she said. She looked out toward the ridge with the sunset colors fading behind it. "Much nicer than the city." "No, no," he said brusquely, "that's not what I mean. I mean, do you like it here , in our world?" "I don't think I understand you." "I mean here, now, on this planet, in this time. Do you like it as well as your own... place?" She stared up at him with wide puzzled eyes. "My own place? What other planet or time do you think I might know?" "I don't know, Miss Jones, I just... He was not quite sure exactly what he had been driving at, himself. "Forget it. Tust a stupid idea." He leaned back and let his eye follow the shadows up the valley. A faint whiff of perfume reached him. "Miss Jones," he said. "That's rather an awkward thing to call you. Do you have a first name?" "Jane Jones, naturally," she said, and smiled. "What else?" "No good," he said firmly. "I might call you Mary, that's a nice anonymous tag, and sounds better too... or you could tell me your real name, just the first name, that wouldn't give much away." She considered silently. "Moirta," she said finally. "My name is Moirta." She accented the syllables evenly. "Moirta," he repeated. "Moirta." He rolled the "r" slightly, as she had done. "That's much better, it fits you now, Moirta, and it fits the cool shades of evenin'." He looked down at her. "Moirta," he said soberly. "It's a lovely name, truly." He leaned forward and kissed her. Her lips met his, not coldly, and not demandingly or fiercely, but gently and firmly, in the exact measure he desired. He put his arms about her, and she came into them, supple but not limp, as a beautifully trained dancer follows a lead. For a very long moment they remained thus, lip to lip and breast to breast, the yearning and response in each rising in swift even balance. And then Brown opened the door, casting a shaft of light past them in the dusk. "Oh, Moirta," he called. "Are you there? Could you come here a moment, please -- " The two male gun runners had stepped outside the cottage while Moirta served Dolan his dinner. They found the smells and sounds of summer night, the darkness itself -- in their world there was no darkness except in closed rooms -- disturbing, but preferable to watching and hearing Dolan eat. "For primitive, natural," the senior gun-runner said, "but -- " he winced, "teeth!" "Gnawing!" the other agreed. He clicked his own non-functional dentures experimentally, examined his fingers with fascinated revulsion. Tender flesh, white teeth -- ugh! "Moirta," he said thoughtfully, "seems not to mind." The senior gun runner cringed as a bat fluttered by. "Her specialty, he said absently, "not to mind." He strained his eyes to see into the darkness. Was that a mouse rustling in the grass? Or worse yet, a snake? "Progress?" the younger man asked. "Motivation set. Next, focus on problem. Pressure." It was something, something small and alive, coming toward him. "Move nearer door," he said abruptly. "Light." "Mr. Smith and I have discussed the matter," Brown said, "and we have decided to be completely frank with you." He paused, watching Dolan. "The machine is a time translator," he said. Dolan looked back at him, pokerfaced. "So?" Brown frowned slightly. Perhaps he had expected more of a reaction. "We are from a time very far in your future," he continued. "The machine has the apparent effect of transferring our physical bodies to this age. I say 'apparent' effect, because the mechanism of this time translation is not fully understood. There are certain anomalies, the displacement effect for example -- but that is immaterial, for all practical purposes we can move at will to and from any time in our past, though not into our future -- when the machine is working. "Naturally, such time travel must be kept secret, if it were not, several undesirable consequences might arise. It is very closely regulated, and may be used only for bona fide historical research by responsible persons." He looked inquiringly at Dolan. "I am not really sure I can tell you much more about the machine, I am not a technician, as you know. Does what I have told you help any?" "I don't know," Dolan said. "Let me think about it a minute." He was not really much surprised at the disclosure. In terms of the technology he knew, the machine was almost completely meaningless. From the beginning, there had only been two possibilities -- either it was the product of an alien culture, or it was an elaborate hoax. He had already decided it was not a hoax. He had not, he realized, allowed himself to explore fully the implications of the other possibility. He did so now, and some of the implications were -- intriguing. Historical research, eh? Well, maybe. He would reserve judgment on that. But a time machine? There was no such thing. And yet, if there were -- He looked at the jumble of equipment speculatively. "I still don't know how a time machine might work," he said finally. "Do you have any sort of handbook, operating manual, anything like that? Or do they have such things in your time?" "Operating manual? I don't think so. There are some pictures -- " Brown stepped over to the machine and touched a large flattened sphere which grew out of the base. "This is the power unit. If you press these studs, various pictures -- 'schematics', I believe you would call them -- are projected on the surface. Is that what you want?" "That sounds like it," Dolan said. "But I did press those studs. Nothing happened." "That is because the power unit is not operating. It does not come on as it should, when we press this button." He indicated a stud on the cubicle control unit. "That, I suppose, is one of the major things wrong with the machine." "Ummm, yeah, I see," Dolan said. He squatted and examined the power unit more closely. "One of these pairs now -- " he traced them with his finger up to the control unit, "must be the control pair." He took a piece of chalk and began numbering the terminals rapidly. "Now," he said, "if the control pair is shorted, the power should be on, but there must be overload protection of some kind, that's probably kicked out, so let's just cut all this junk loose and then short the possible control pairs one at a time, see what happens then." He reached for a pair of sidecutters. The three gun-runners looked at each other. Brown nodded slightly. They moved quickly back out of Dolan's way. "OK," Dolan said half an hour later. "We've got the power unit perking, and we've got the pictures. Now what do they mean? This block interwiring diagram now, it seems to be what I'm looking for, but I can't read the tags they've got on it. You know which block in the diagram corresponds to which piece of equipment?" Brown studied the luminous white lines against the black polished background. He put a wellmanicured finger on one square. "According to the lettering," he said, "this is the control unity, the small cube at the top with the buttons. This other, I do not know, it says: 'temporal re-integrator.' I do not know what that might be." Dolan frowned doubtfully. " 'Temporal re-integrator'," he repeated. "Could be anything. What do the others say?" Among the litter the first electrician had left, there was a short length of leadshielded two-conductor number # wire. He picked it up and began to run it absently through his fingers, straightening it. Someone had apparently amused themselves by clipping idly at it with a pair of side-cutters, it was irregularly nicked along its length. "This," Brown continued, "is something called a 'selective resonator', and this, well, the term does not translate, it is a -- " he pronounced carefully, as if unfamiliar with the word, " 'bractorquatic' -- " There was something peculiar about the indentations in the wire, Dolan realized, a pattern -- He pulled it unobtrusively through his fingers again, letting his thumbnail run over the nicks. It was Morse: K-I-T-T-E... kitten?... no, it must be American Morse... K-I-L-L-E-R... killers hs end rvr rd Killers in the house at the end of River Road. This was the house at the end of River Road. Brown had stopped speaking and was looking at him questioningly. "Uh, yeah," Dolan said hastily. "Well, that still doesn't tell me too much." He carefully rolled the length of wire and hung it on a projecting piece of the time translator. His hands were damp, and he was sure he was moving awkwardly and unnaturally. Dolan was not an easily flustered person, but things were coming a little fast -- mysterious aliens, time machines, and now -- murder, or hint of it. He needed time to think. "It's getting pretty late," he said, hoping his voice sounded natural. "Let's just knock off for now, I'll study it over, maybe I'll have something figured by tomorrow." Historical research, huh? Some professors all right, this bunch -- The thing to do was to stall, not let them know he suspected anything. "I tell you," he said casually, "do you have some place I could bed down here? Save me a trip into town and 'back." Was it his imagination, or did Brown relax slightly? "Why, yes, we do have a spare cot in Mr. Smith's room," Brown aid. "Would that be good enough?" "Sounds fine," Dolan said. He snapped the lid of his tool-box shut. "Let's go see what it looks like." held a council of war while Dolan was eating his breakfast. "Subject's attention diverted," the senior gun runner said. "Unknown factor. Annoying." Smith clucked his tongue in sympathy. He thought for a moment. "Raise threshold to override?" he suggested. "Must. Moirta." Smith nodded and went out. He returned in a moment with the female gun runner. Brown explained the problem to her in the sarfie few words he had used to Smith. She shrugged. She did not bother to practise her specialty on her colleagues -- they were, for one thing, almost immune, they had grown up in a civilization where her specialty was over-crowded. For another, in the nature of her specialty, she found it hard to concentrate on more than one subject at a time. "Doing best," she said indifferently. Brown studied her shrewdly. "Supplies short," he said mildly. "One-half larger than one-third. Each must pay way." His voice was mild, but Moirta understood the threat quite clearly. "Suggestions?" she asked coldly. Brown nodded equably -- he was used to temperament in this member of his team -- and told her what he wanted her to do. She would obey, he knew. She would also double-cross him, if the occasion offered; but he did not intend that the occasion should offer. There was a foot-path leading up the ridge back of the cabin. Dolan did not ordinarily feel the need of an after-breakfast stroll, but today he was looking for something. He was not quite sure what it would be, but he thought he would recognize it if he saw it. He walked slowly up the foot-path, letting his eyes roam. Perhaps fifty yards from the cottage, the grass was trampled and the brush bent where someone had left the path. This might be it. He followed the trampled trail off the path, searching carefully now. Three or four steps along it, he found what he had been looking for -- two empty .# caliber cartridges lying in the grass. He picked them up and juggled them in his hand, looking speculatively about. Angling off to the left was an opening in the undergrowth. He walked that way and found himself standing on the lip of a sharply eroded gully. Someone or something had kicked the bank down recently, there was a great pile of new earth in the bottom of the gully. He kicked around in the leaves and mold at his feet. There was a dark crusted substance on the leaves. The door of the cottage slammed. He slipped the empty cartridges in his pocket and stepped hastily back to the path, listening. Were those footsteps hurrying toward him? He began to stroll slowly back toward the cottage. Around the first turn he met Moirta. The girl now, he thought, where does she really fit? Possible ally? Enemy? Or neutral? She came up to him a little breathless and took his hand. "Were you going back to the house?" she asked. "Not specially. Just walking around." "Let's not go back just yet, then," she said. They turned and walked slowly back up the path, hand-inhand. After a while they came out on an open shoulder from which they could look down, catching glimpses of the path they had climbed here and there, and at its end the cottage. They sat down close together, leaning back against a large tree, not speaking at first. After a while the girl sighed. "I shall feel verv sorry when we leave this time," she said. "Me, too." He kissed her. After a moment she pulled away and looked at him searchingly. "There is something bothering you?" she asked. She flushed a little. "That was not very... ardent." Dolan looked away, feeling foolish. "I guess not," he said. She took his hand and squeezed it. "Poor George. It must be very confusing for you. Can I help?" Perhaps she could, he thought. "Look here," he said cautiously, "what happens when I get this thing fixed, if I do? You folks go on back to your own time, I suppose, but what happens to me?" She hesitated. "I don't think I understand," she said. "Mr. Brown pays you for your work, I suppose, and you stay here, that's all. Should there be more?" Dolan smiled grimly. "Like the first technician, huh?" "What do you mean?" "I mean, Brown pays me, and I stay here, like the first technician." He took his hand out of his pocket with the two empty cartridge cases in it and rolled them gently back and forth in his open palm. Moirta stared at them fascinated. "Oh," she said faintly, "I didn't know. I thought... I didn't know..." "Well, you know now," he said. "And your job is to keep me cheered up and plugging away at the job until payday comes. Right?" "No," she said. "Oh, no. Please, George. They wouldn't do that... that is, I don't think... it's so unnecessary." "Unnecessary?" "Yes. You see -- I shouldn't tell you this, but I can't have you thinking... you see, after we are gone, you will forget all this. Why should they kill you when there's no reason?" She did not seem very strongly convinced herself, Dolan thought. "How do you mean, I'll forget it? You mean they'll hypnotize me, something like that?" She shook her head. "No, they won't have to do anything. It's the displacement effect. You see, we are not really here, in a way, it is a sort of illusion, but more real for us than for you. When we return to our own time, we will remember all that happened, but you will remember nothing, since the translator does not really exist in your time. You will just forget, it will be as if none of this had ever happened, as if you had never met me, never heard of a 'time-translator'." It sounded plausible, in a way, but there was a flaw in the logic. "If everybody in this time forgets, why so much to-do about secrecy? Won't anyone else I tell forget too?" "There is a limit to the possible displacement. If the limit is exceeded, according to the Alwyn hypothesis the continuum itself may be altered, and one of the ways in which it might change would be to eliminate the irritant -- in other words, all of us concerned directly." "I see. So they figured two of us put too much of a strain on the displacement, that's why they killed this other joker -- what was his name, anyway?" "Nelson. Perhaps," she said uncertainly, "that might be it." "And maybe they figure even one is too much strain, better to be safe than sorry, huh?" requires even more displacement than... loss of memory. Really, I don't understand it, you see, I am just a sort of employee, they don't confide in me. If they knew I had been talking to you about these things like this -- " she shuddered and smiled wryly. "Perhaps I too know too much, perhaps I should be worrying about the pros and cons of various types of displacement for myself." Dolan looked at her thoughtfully. "This displacement thing," he said gently, "I'll forget you too?" She nodded. "You will forget me. But I will remember you -- for a long time, I am afraid." He frowned and kicked at a tuft of sod. "I don't want to forget you. Do you have to leave with the others? Couldn't you stay? For a little while anyway? You haven't really had a good chance to see our world yet." "No. They would never trust me out of their control. If I refused to go... well..." she shrugged. "And I don't suppose I could go back with you to your world, spend some time there, either?" "No, that would be to travel into your own future, which cannot be done." "I see." Dolan leaned back against the tree, thinking. "Well, there's one thing sure," he said. "If the machine can't be fixed, it can't be fixed, there isn't much they can do about it. You may all stay in this time yet." She shook her head gently. "Not all. At least, not all alive. There would be no displacement, and the only hope they would have to avoid the Alwyn action would be to preserve absolute secrecy. You have a saying, I believe: 'dead men -- # " She hesitated. "Even if you and I could find a way to escape, even if they told me I might leave, I could not trust them. They are very dangerous men. As long as we and they are both in this time, there would be no safety for me, nor for you." "I suppose you're right," Dolan said reluctantly. He looked down at her searchingly. "What do you want to do?" he asked. "Do you want to stay with me, or do you want me to forget you?" "I want to be with you," she said softly. "Always." "And I, with you," he said. He bent his head toward hers. Below, the door of the cottage opened. Smith's figure appeared. He glanced around and then came plodding up the path. Moirta pulled away and got to her feet. "We might as well start back, I suppose," she said unenthusiastically. "Let's go back in the woods, he won't find us there." She hesitated and then shook her head. "No. We have both been very indiscreet today, and they are suspicious men. It is important in their trade to be suspicious. It would not be wise to let them think we are avoiding them." "OK, I suppose not," he acknowledged glumly. He rose and followed her down the path. tended to submerge herself completely in her role, a failing which the senior gun runner recognized and allowed for in his calculations. In the following days, Dolan held her hand often, and kissed her sometimes, and talked with her frequently, and took her in his arms for short periods; but at the crucial moment Smith or Brown always casually appeared upon the scene. Dolan suspected, accurately, that they were deliberately permitting him just enough contact with her to keep him constantly on edge, keep his mind off other matters. They made no overt threats, but he was constantly aware of the body in the gully, the bulge in Smith's pocket, Brown's cold eyes studying him. Dolan was not a submissive person, and under the pressure a cold malevolence toward the two gun-runners began to develop in him. He concealed it, as well as he could, under a shell of impassivity. His time would come. The sketch of a plan was beginning to form in his mind, it was not very solid yet, but if it worked out they would be laughing on the other side of their faces. What was it Moirta had said? There would be danger "as long as we and they are both in this time." The answer to that was simple. Eliminate "they" and eliminate the danger. In his work, Dolan kept running into reminders of the first technician, and the matter bothered him. The man seemed to have been making progress, and surely he would not have been such a fool as simply to refuse to work, the message he had left showed he understood quite clearly his danger. He asked Moirta about this, and got another shock. "That was a mistake," she said. "We did not fully understand your world then. In our time, medical science is very exact. There are no incomplete men or incomplete women. We assumed that because this man... person... looked like a man, and seemed to be a man, he was one. However, we have since discovered that this is not always true, and it was not in this case. We could not allow him to work on the machine, since we could not predict his reactions adequately." Not predict his reactions? There was an obvious corollary -- Dolan's lips tightened. "But you can predict mine, is that it?" Moirta ran her fingers lightly along the back of his hand, studying his knuckles with the tips of them. "Of course," she said idly, "Why not? There is nothing wrong with your reactions, George dear." He flung her hand away violently. "Why not? So you push the buttons, and I react as predicted, and you sit back and laugh at me while I fix your machine, and then you all go tootling off to find more suckers, while I hold the bag. That's it, isn't it? Boy, I bet you've been getting a big charge out of this. I thought it was mighty coincidental the way one of your boyfriends always pops up as soon as we're alone for five minutes. Not taking any chances on the reaction getting out of hand, are you?" She stared up at him in shocked surprise. "No," she said, "no. Oh, poor George. How stupid of me. You see, I am not really very wise, I know only one thing, how to be a woman. I keep forgetting that you do not think as we do. Because we can predict a reaction, does that make it less real?" "But you used me, you knew this would happen." There were tears in her eyes. "I used you," she admitted, "and I used myself, and Brown used both you and me. "And you used me, also. Do you wish me to think that when you hold a woman's hand, and say certain things to her, and look at her in a certain way; you are entirely innocent, you do not guess what may happen?" "I didn't force you," he said stubbornly, "the choice was yours to make." "Nor did I force you. But I knew what your choice would be, and further, I knew what my choice would be. Emotion is my trade, as electronics is yours. Electrons, I have been told, have a certain freedom of choice, or appear to have. Yet you know with quite high probability which choice they will make under the influence of certain physical fields. In the same way, I know what choice to expect of a man or a woman, under the influence of certain emotional fields." "You didn't want me, though, you just wanted a technician. The first man would have done just as well for you, if he had 'reacted.' " "That is true. And I am the first woman you have ever made love to?" "No, of course not. But I've never felt the same about them as I do about you." "I, the same. George, I think you still do not understand me. In your time there are women who get things from men by seeming to promise more than they intend to give, for simulating emotions they do not feel. You think I am one of those... no, please don't interrupt... I am not. In my time there are no such women, people understand each other too well, they are too hard to fool. "Instead, there are women like me, women who are peculiarly attractive to men, and peculiarly susceptible to men -- honestly so. Believe me, it is not an easy way to make a living. A woman has only so much honest emotion to give. Do you understand now?" She looked up at him appealingly. He did not understand, but he believed. He could not doubt that this was as important to her as to him, that regardless of the motives behind it, her feeling was deep and honest. And yet, it was impossible to understand, impossible for him to visualize a world in which people knew accurately the feeling others held for them; and yet still loved, disliked, or were indifferent. It was, he thought, a little like a caveman trying to understand the complexities and compulsions of polite urban society. He slumped back down beside her. "I don't know," he said glumly. "You're right, I suppose, it all sounds logical; but I still don't understand." She drew him to her. "Poor George," she said with her mouth against his ear. "Poor George, I know only one way to console you, and only one way to console myself." She sighed. "And it seems they will not permit that, I suppose the 'reaction,' she smiled wryly, "would not fit with their plans." Dolan straightened and looked at her sharply. Her remark had reminded him of something else he needed to know. "How do they know just when to break us up' he asked, "just when to drop in 'accidentally' on us? Can they read my mind?" She shook her head. "No, they are not mind-readers. It is just that they know so much about what to expect of people -- remember that for thousands of years there has been nothing so important to us as what other people do, in my time men of science no longer study physical things, all that is known, they study people. In any given situation, they can predict quite accurately what action a given individual will take." "You think they know what we're talking about now?" "Not in detail. But in general, yes -- and I suppose it must serve their purpose in some way for us to worry about these things, what will become of you and me, or they would not permit it. In a matter such as this, they do nothing without a purpose." "Well, that's fair enough," Dolan said grimly. "As long as they aren't actually mind-readers, they can guess all they want to." Moirta shook her head. "It is not guessing, that is what I have been trying to tell. you. Whatever you plan, they will have foreseen it, perhaps not the exact thing you wish to do ; but all the possible things you can do, and the most likely thing you will do. "Really, it will not be so bad, you will finish the translator, and we will go, and you will forget us, and... well, in time I suppose I will forget you also." "No." He squeezed her hard against him. "I don't intend to forget you, and I don't intend you to forget me." He grinned down at her. "In this time, the boy always gets the girl, and they live happily ever after. It's a natural law, like gravitation. "Brown and Smith aren't infallible. They may know people, but I know machines. Don't forget, the time translator is the key, the big item in this mess. And that's in my bailiwick." He left it to Brown to satisfy the people at the shop, and apparently Brown satisfied them, they sent along the equipment and supplies he requested without comment. He still had no idea why the time translator worked, but he was beginning to know quite a bit about how it worked, in the sense of functional operation, the inputoutput relations of the black boxes. A time came when he could have activated the machine by making a few minor connections. He did not do so. With the knowledge that he had the technical problem whipped, some of his urgency faded. He could take time to amplify and clarify his knowledge. Quite probably the time translator could never be duplicated by twentieth century technology. At the same time, only a fool would pass up a chance to learn what he could, it was too big a thing, even with the limitations under which it seemed to operate. Also, familiarity with the translator was a weapon, knowledge Brown did not have -- a weapon he was grimly intent on using. He kept testing and checking, varying inputs and measuring outputs. Remembering what Moirta had said about losing his memory -- he did not think he would, if his plans worked out, but there was always the chance of something going wrong -- he kept careful notes. Brown watched this activity blandly. Thinking it over, Dolan saw that this was only logical. There were always fires for notes. So, as an extra precaution, he made copies of the most important data in secrecy and stored them in a glass jar under a rock back of the cottage. Then it occurred to him that he might forget about the jar -- or he might not be around to remember it, there was still the gully to keep in mind. Well, what had worked once should work again. He nicked a code message in a piece of wire, showing the location of the notes, and left it in his toolbox. Also, he made certain changes in the time-machine. Finally, he told Brown the machine was ready. "You want to test-hop it?" he asked. "I'm pretty sure it'll work now, but it's still a haywire job, I could be wrong." Brown shook his head. "Not necessary. If the machine works, we will be... home. If not, well, you will just have to tinker with it some more." It was not sound reasoning, from Dolan's viewpoint, but consistent with what he had come to expect from these people in technical matters. He had counted heavily on such a reaction. "OK," he said. "Then she's ready to go." Brown nodded and tossed a key to Smith, speaking curtly in a language strange to Dolan. Dolan had noticed long before that the back bedroom door was always locked, and the windows securely boarded up. Artifacts of historical interest, Brown had told him. It seemed like rather extreme precaution to take for security of such material. Brown turned back to Dolan. "You had better move your equipment out of range of the machine now, if you wish to keep it," he said. Dolan carried his equipment outside. When he returned the three aliens were carrying small heavy boxes out of the back room, stowing them in a tight circle about the machine. Moirta was straining at a heavy case with neatly dovetailed corners, marked "Remington". So that was what it was all about. It suddenly occurred to him to wonder how, if the machine could not move a person into the future, if it had no real existence in this time, they expected to move guns and ammunition. Did the laws of time operate differently for living organisms and inanimate things? What was it someone had once said about life -- 'islands of reverse entropy'? But that was only a figure of speech, men were still made up of the same elements as steel and brass -- Well, it could wait, there were more important things right now. "You need a hand?" he asked Moirta. She smiled and nodded breathlessly. As he stooped to help lift the box, their heads almost touched. "Listen!" he whispered, "be on your toes, now. I'm going to try something. Stay on this side of the machine, no matter what happens, and do just as I say." She looked startled, but nodded. With four of them working, it did not take long to pile the cargo in place. Brown checked it over with his eye and then turned to study Dolan. "Well," he said slowly, "I suppose we are ready to go. No doubt you wish your payment now, eh, Mr. Dolan?" This was the critical point. Dolan tensed as Smith stepped clear and lifted an inquiring eyebrow at Brown, his hand in his hip-pocket; but the senior gun runner shook his head. "Don't be stupid," he said quietly. "I think we have a few negotiations to make now." He looked at Dolan inquiringly. Dolan hoped his relief did not show too clearly. He had been reasonably sure Brown would be too acute to kill him off-hand, but it had been a tricky moment, just the same. Now, he thought, play it cagey, make them lay it out on the table, get it moving -- "I'm no good at guessing games," he said. "You'll have to come down to my level on this." Brown nodded. "Of course. Excuse me. I will be more explicit. Mr. Smith wants to kill you and get you out of the way immediately; he does not trust you. I do not trust you completely myself, I do not trust anyone completely; and for that exact reason I feel it would be stupid and dangerous to kill you. I am quite sure you will have booby-trapped the machine against just such a contingency." "Booby-trapped?" Dolan asked blankly. "Yes," Brown said patiently. "I mean the machine will not work satisfactorily if you are killed. It will blow up, burn out, or some such thing. Is that not true?" Dolan considered the question for a moment. He was acutely aware that the most devious plot would probably seem simple and childish to a man like Brown. "Suppose it were?" he said cautiously. "Then what?" "Then we shall negotiate, like reasonable people. What do you need to convince you of our good faith. Your money?" Brown reached in his jacket pocket and brought out a slip of paper. "Here," he said, "I think you will find this satisfactory." He handed it to Dolan. Dolan looked absently at the check. It was more than satisfactory -- for a purely business transaction. But this was no longer just a business transaction. "It's not enough," he said flatly. Brown raised an eyebrow. "The girl? No." He shook his head firmly. "We must have Moirta for a hostage, a guarantee of your good faith. She goes with us. Afterward, perhaps, if she wishes to return -- " he shrugged. Dolan studied him, trying to decide just how much Brown's word was worth. Just as much as it suited him to make it worth, probably. He glanced at Moirta. She shook her head, a tiny almost imperceptible jerk, confirming his own thought. There was no particular reason to expect that Brown would really let her return -- Moirta probably was not important to him, but the whereabouts of the time-translator was. He turned back to Brown. "You'll promise not to stop her?" Brown smiled indulgently. "I promise." Dolan felt an almost uncontrollable urge to smash the smug smile with his fist. He bottled it up. This was no time to get excited. "OK," he said shortly. He stepped to the machine and carefully bent a wire just so, while Brown watched alertly. "Also," Brown said, "the notes." "Notes?" "Exactly. The notes you kept on the operation of the machine. Give them to me, please." Dolan shrugged. He had not really expected to keep the notes. "They're out in my briefcase," he said. Brown looked at Smith, who went out and returned in a moment with the briefcase. Dolan took out a folder and handed it to Brown. Brown riffled through the pages, nodded and tossed the folder on the pile of boxes. He studied Dolan speculatively. "The other notes, too, please," he said. "The secret notes." The man was guessing, of course. Dolan had not even mentioned the other notes to Moirta. "You've got all the notes I made," he said. Brown stepped forward and grasped his arm. "Walk!" he commanded. Dolan twisted to look at him, startled. "What -- ?" "The notes," Brown said coldly. "Walk." He gave a little shove, and Dolan found himself walking, with Brown holding his arm in a firm even grasp, a look of preoccupation on his face. "This way," Brown said. They went out the door. "The notes," Brown repeated insistently. "Keep walking, keep walking." They zigzagged rapidly across the yard, Brown still guiding Dolan by the arm, Smith coming behind with his hand in his pocket. Brown paused. "Here, I think," he said to Smith. "Look under that rock." Dolan watched in helpless rage as Smith dug the jar out and handed it to Brown. Was Brown a mind-reader, after all? How else -- ? Well, of course, he thought, muscular tension, the old 'mind-reading' trick. He should have caught on sooner; but Brown was good at it, no doubt about that. Brown smashed the jar against the rock and stuffed the notes in his pocket. They went back in to the time machine. Brown bent over the control box and studied it carefully. He examined the wire Dolan had adjusted. For the first time, there was a flicker of uncertainty in his eyes. "Well," he said absently. "I suppose -- " he looked comprehensively around, checking the position of the cargo. "There is something -- " He punched the power button, moved his hand to start the machine. Dolan glanced at Moirta. She sat on one of the boxes on the far side of the machine, watching him. This was the time, now -- He stepped forward and opened his mouth to shout. He never did. Something went suddenly wrong. Brown flicked a thumb, Smith moved like lightning, and before Dolan realized what was happening, he found himself flat on his back, wondering numbly what had happened. Brown snapped a syllable at Moirta. She answered with a shrug and a word. He frowned momentarily and then his face lightened. "Ah," he said softly. "I think I see, now. You were going to shout to Moirta to run out of range of the machine, while you jumped in and activated it, isn't that so? Really, it would have done no good, we could still have returned, and besides Moirta -- " he frowned suddenly. "Oh could we have returned?" He bit delicately at his lower lip. "Moirta," he said. "Step a little closer to the machine, please." "Now," he turned back to Dolan, "I am going to push the buttons, with Moirta quite close to the machine. Are there any last-minute changes you wish to make?" Dolan hesitated, studying both Moirta's and the men's positions, and then nodded sullenly. "I thought there might be," Brown said with satisfaction. "Mr. Smith, help Mr. Dolan up to the machine." Dolan reached out unsteadily, leaning on Smith, and reversed two connections. "That's it," he mumbled. "Thank you, Mr. Dolan. Now, Mr. Smith, if you will just carry Mr. Dolan over there into the corner, well away from the machine, and immobilize him -- no, no, just temporarily. We may still need him again, Mr. Dolan is a very tricky sort of person." Dolan felt Smith's fingers touch his neck lightly, there was a sudden blazing pain, and that was all. He blanked out. that was that fingers were working gently at his neck, massaging it. His head was resting on something soft. He opened his eyes and saw that he was lying with his head pillowed on Moirta's lap. "George?" she said sharply. "Are you all right, George?" "I'm all right," he said. He raised his head and looked around. The machine was gone, and Smith and Brown were gone, and half the boxes were gone. The end ones in the little semicircle were broken, and from them a pile of brass cartridges had spilled through the hole in the floor where the others had been. "Wise jerks," he mumbled with grim satisfaction. "See how they like it now." Moirta stared at him. "What happened, George? I don't understand what happened." "I gimmicked the machine. That's what happened. Surprise, huh? I'll bet they were plenty surprised too." "But I thought -- " Dolan sat up and felt tenderly of his throat. He nodded. "I know," he said. "You thought they had me licked. So did they. That was just smoke-screen, a little diversion. I knew they could out-smart me if I tried to pull anything foxy, that's their trade. But they weren't really mind-readers, you told me that, and the business with the notes cinched it. "And they didn't think like technicians. They could see I might disable the machine, or booby-trap it ; but they couldn't see I could fix it so it would work, only just a little different. "All I had to do was to keep their minds on their own specialty, let them wear out their suspicion on the little foxy tricks they expected, so they wouldn't notice what I was really doing. See?" She shook her head. "No," she said. "I do not see. I suppose I'm stupid, too -- " "Not stupid. Just not technically minded. You understand, this machine works by setting up a field around itself, ordinarily that field's circular, it takes in everything in a certain radius. But it doesn't have to be, that's just because it's the easiest way, more convenient. So I just distorted the field a little, made it lopsided. Then I went through all that other business to keep their minds on me, keep them off your position, and make sure they both stayed over on my side." He smiled at her. "I told you, remember, in this time the villains always get it in the neck, the boy gets the girl, and they live happily ever after." She shook her head. "No," she said gently. "I'm sorry, for you and me there will not be any ever after. You forget the displacement effect." "Displacement effect?" "Yes," she said. "I am afraid I did not explain that fully to you, I thought it would only hurt you to do so. You understand, the past is really immutable, we only seem to change it. For the time that the time-translator exists at any given time in the past, a sort of enclave, a self-supporting bubble, is established which permits apparent changes. When the time translator returns to its normal existence in mv era, that bubble dissolves. I do not know, in terms of our present subjective time, just how long the displacement will hold, but when it vanishes we, you and I, will no longer exist." "But that would be a change in the past, in itself." "Not exactly. What I told you about forgetting was true, it was just not the whole truth. There will be, in my time, a Moirta who exists normally up to the time she is translated to the past. And there will be, in your time, a George Dolan who never met Mr. Brown or Miss Jones. But you and I, as we exist at this moment, will not have been." "I see," Dolan said. "It's too bad I didn't know about this sooner. I think we still may have a chance, though. You see, I had to worry about the possibility that Smith and Brown might think it worth while to come back after you. So I changed the switches, too. The time translator isn't going into the future, it's gone into the past, and then it's fixed to burn out again, a long way in the past, where there aren't any electronics technicians, no people at all. How about that?" "The past? I don't know," she said doubtfully. I am not a temporal technician, I know only about the displacement effect as it operates in our usual translations. Perhaps, in that case, the bubble might continue to exist, as a sort of permanent side-track. I really don't know." She laughed suddenly, as the full implications of what he had said struck her. "The past? Oh, poor Smith. And poor Brown. A long way in the past, where there are no people at all, just dinosaurs and snakes -- and they hate such things so." She laughed helplessly, tears rolling down her cheeks. "And poor George, and poor Moirta. All with their clever little plans, their tricks to outsmart each other. Everyone has outsmarted everyone else, and we all lose now, don't we?" Dolan stared at her narrowly. "We all lose?" She nodded -- been quite confident of victory. It took him a rather long moment to assimilate the fact of defeat; but in that moment he did assimilate it, as fully and completely as he took in the implications of any other situation. He examined the wreckage of the time translator curiously, tried and failed to make sense of the erratic pattern in which their cargo had accompanied them, the absence of Moirta. He straightened and looked about. There were no dinosaurs, the range of the time machine did not extend that far; but over on a ledge of rock a large cat with hyper-trophied eyeteeth squatted, switching its stub of a tail, startled by their sudden appearance. He sighed and turned toward the other gun runner. "Old, old, time," he said. He nodded toward the cat. "Bad for us. No chance rescue. Supplies short." The other said nothing, watching him narrowly, hand in back pocket. Down in the valley below, something trumpeted, a hoarse grunting roar. The senior gun runner started nervously. It was getting dark. He held out his hand. "Older first," he said simply. The younger man laid the gun in his hand; and the senior gun runner, without hesitation or farewell, raised it to his head and pulled the trigger. " -- yes, everyone," Moirta said. She wiped at her eyes. "I'm sorry, George. I will die very quickly in this time, whether the displacement operates or not." "But you said -- !" "I know. I was so sure there was nothing you could do, and I said what I thought would make you happy. And I did want to stay with you, in a way, even though I knew it would kill me... and in another way, I wanted to go back, to return to my own time, and you were my means to that... oh, it's so mixed up, really, it is funny, everyone so sure of themselves, and now... this..." Dolan shook his head helplessly. "I never thought. You seemed so... so..." "So human?" her lips curled wryly. "I was made to seem human, twentieth-century human, it was part of my job. I'm not. And soon, I shall not even seem human, without the things I need -- things that won't even be invented for ten thousand years -- cancer inhibitors, blood clotting agents, insulin surrogate, vaccines, serums, antibiotics -- why, I can't even eat your food!" She shook her head sadly. "You had better just leave me, it will not be nice, you will not like me at all." And yet, even with the game played out, she could not forget her trade, her specialty, for it was bred into her as deeply as the tendency to leukemia, the hemophilia, the (Continued on page #) What Is Your Science I. Q.? things astronomical and other similar items you run across all the time in science fiction. How well do you know them? Counting five for each correct answer, you should score #. Anything over # and you're a whizz. See page # for the answers. #. Who is given credit for the discovery of Uranus? #. Alnilam, Alnitak, Min taka are in the constellation . #. Sirius is the brightest star in our heavens and is light years away. #. Which of the two moons of Mars goes around that planet in # hours? #. The instrument used for measuring the sun's heat and energy is called a #. Who first coined the word robot? #. Magnitude refers to the brightness of a star. The brighter the star the its magnitude. #. Venus and are known as the inferior or inner planets. #. Thuban was once the North star; Polaris is the North star today. Which star will be the North star about twelve thousand years from now? #. The "cool" stars are yellowish; the "coolest" are . #. How thick are the rings of Saturn thought to be? #. The idea that the growth of planets is attained by the aggregation of small solid meteoric bodies revolving around a gaseous nucleus is called the hypothesis. #. What is the name of the most recently detected moon of Uranus? #. When a planet crosses in front of the sun as viewed from Earth it is called a #. The three outer moons of Jupiter are noted as the only satellites that go around a planet #. Bode's Law was based on the regular of the planets. #. Supergiant stars which are yellow in color and are variables are called #. Those objects in the heavens which are not stars are usually designated as M# or M# etc. What does the M stand for? #. The faintest stars still visible to the naked eye are usually of the magnitude. #. The great tongues of incandescent hydrogen which spurt outward from the sun are called It's much easier to believe than disbelieve, whether it's a truth or an untruth, when you have to. And when the brain and body are weak... A Cold Night for Crying clouds of white confetti in the glare of the street lamps, mantling softly from laden, wind-stirred branches, drifting with the wind and embanking the scars and stumps of buildings that remained of what had been the city. Mr. Friedlander trudged across the wide, quiet avenues, his bare, balding head burrowed low in his tattered collar for warmth, chin against chest, wet feet numb and stinging with cold inside his torn overshoes which could not be replaced until next winter, and then only if the Karadi did not decrease the clothing ration still further. All the way home, he conjured fantasies from the white, multishaped exhalations of his breath. Here it was the smoke of a good Havana-rolled cigar and there the warm hissing steam from a radiator valve and later the magic-carpet clouds from the funnel of an ocean liner that might take him to far, warm places the Karadi had not reached. Almost, he thought he heard the great sonorous drone of the ship's whistle, but it was the toot of an automobile horn as the sleek vehicle came skidding around a corner, almost running down Mr. Friedlander before it disappeared in the swirling flurries of snow. He thought if he followed the tire tracks before the snow could cover them he would discover in which section of the city these particular Karadi lived, but he shook his fist instead, knowing the gesture would bring, at worst, a reprimand. In the dim hallway of his tenement, smelling pungently of cabbage and turnips -- and from somewhere way in back the faint, unmistakable aroma of beef -- Mr. Friedlander shook the snow from his coat and stamped his numb feet before he climbed the three dark flights to his apartment. At each landing he would pause and look with longing and resentment at the door of the unused elevator shaft, then shrug and wonder why the Karadi had denied man even this simple luxury. On the floor below his own, Mr. Friedlander heard the unmistakable crackling sound of a shortwave radio receiver. The fools! He wasn't going to talk, he lost no love on the Karadi. But there were others. There were neighbors, friends, brothers, even wives, there were the obvious quislings you shunned and the less obvious ones you didn't suspect until it was too late. One thing you never did was listen to the short-wave radio so defiantly its crackling could be heard not merely on the other side of the door but all the way out on the landing. The punishment was death. Mr. Friedlander paused in front of his own door, where the odor of strong yellow turnips assailed his nostrils. It was so unsatisfyingly familiar, he almost gagged. The new generation hardly remembered the delightful old foods, but if Mr. Friedlander shut his eyes and thought, he could clearly smell steak and roast chicken and broiled lobster swimming in butter and a dry red wine to wash everything down slowly, so slowly he could taste every tiny morsel. He pushed open the door and began to shrug off his worn coat. "I'm home," he said to the scabby walls, the gas range which had been converted to wood when the Karadi suspended all public utilities, to the bubbling pot which exuded the turnip smell, to the drab sofa, the two wooden chairs, the table he had constructed from two old saw horses and the planking he had found long ago after the Fourteenth Street Bomb. From the small bedroom, he heard sobbing. red-rimmed eyes at him and squeezed his hand, wringing it as if it had been a wet rag. She was forty-four years old, six years younger than Mr. Friedlander, with a face which once had been comely but now was lined, gaunt and bigpored. She was even thinner than Mr. Friedlander, but looked shapeless in her thick woolen sweater and the baggy work trousers he had stolen from the quartermaster store of the plant where he worked. "Try to tell me, Martha," he aid. "It's good to talk." She looked at him mutely, opening her mouth to talk but swallowing instead. "You tell me, Martha. There now." She managed to get the words out. "It's Freddie." Mr. Friedlander placed a tired arm about her shoulder. The feeling had started in the pit of his stomach, like when their son George had died of pneumonia two years ago this month. The Karadi had outlawed all wonder drugs, all hospitals, all medical schools. Helpless, they had watched George die, his big child eyes not understanding, asking for help. Mr. Friedlander always wondered if he had died hating them. "People die and you see them. You know," Mrs. Friedlander said. "They are sick and you can't do anything but try to nurse them, anyway. Or the big Karadi cars run them down and you see the broken body. You see them. Alive. Then dead. It's hard, so hard you want to stop living too, but there's God and God shows you they are dead and you have the memories, all the sweet ones. You know they're dead because you see them dying. You can forget. In time, you forget. You have to forget because otherwise you don't want to live, but you... hold me. Hold me tight." Mr. Friedlander patted her hair awkwardly. The Karadi not only condoned but encouraged displays of simple emotion and for that reason Mr. Friedlander tried to avoid them. "What are you trying to tell me?" he asked. "Freddie. Freddie. His plane was shot down over the mountains, they told me. Freddie is dead. Freddie." Mr. Friedlander stopped patting his wife's hair, stopped stroking the tangles into a smooth glossiness. He bent down and carefully unbuckled his torn overshoes, placing them carefully in a corner of the room. Then he walked to the window and stared out at the snow sparkling in wind-blown puffs under the street lamp which remained only because the Karadi liked to drive their confiscated autos at night. "What are you saying?" he asked his wife. "Just because they tell us Freddie is dead -- " "Stop it. Don't say that." "Freddie is dead. Because they tell us, that's no reason to believe. How can we believe? We saw Freddie alive, but now they tell us Freddie is dead. Far away, two thousand miles. Over the mountains. Did we see him die? He's dead. Oh, he's dead. But we'll never learn to live with it. Don't you see? How can we believe? How can we know? We saw him alive. Now he's dead." Freddie was flying a Karadi plane against the last strongholds of free man in the Rocky Mountains. Not because Freddie had wanted to pilot the dart-swift craft particularly, but because they had made him. The Karadi announced their own human losses readily, almost as if they took great pleasure in the impressive figures. "They told you this?" Mr. Friedlander asked. "That Freddie's plane was shot down. That he is assumed dead." "You saw nothing in writing?" "They sent a man." "You knew him?" "No. He wore good clothing. He drove up in a sleek Karadi car." "Quisling." "Freddie died a hero's death, he said. Against the rebels." "Rebels? Trying to preserve their own freedom? Freedom which we lost because the bombed cities couldn't survive?" "I only know what the man told me, but how can we how... all my life, always, forever, I will be praying and waiting for Freddie to walk in, right behind you, through that door. We never saw him die. They should at least send something. Some proof. Anything to make me understand he is dead." Mr. Friedlander had been thinking the same thing. If you loved someone, your son, all his life and then a stranger came and said he was dead you could forget the stranger came and go on thinking of that someone, your son, alive and not dead, but too busy to come and see you, eating the food you could only dream about, sleeping in a warm bed, in some clean place far away. Only it was like the cat he once had read about. You took the cat and gave it food, catnip, but every time it ate you also fed it electricity, a shock. It wanted to eat but it was afraid of the electricity, the shock. It starved to death screeching from hunger in a room full of food. If that was what the Karadi wanted, he would say Freddie was dead. He would believe and laugh everytime he saw them because they thought he was screeching from hunger in a room full of food. "Stop it," Mr. Friedlander told his wife. "You stop that. If they say so, then Freddie is dead. We must put an announcement in the Karadi newspaper and make plans for a funeral." "In all this snow? It's so cold." "Anyway." Mrs. Friedlander walked to the stove and stirred the bubblying turnip water. "You come and eat your supper," she said. "We'll talk about Freddie later." "There's nothing to talk about. Only the funeral." "Maybe he was lying. The stran# ) ger. "Stop; that. It's what they want. They want us to be animals. They want us never to know. Always doubting. Always clean in dirty places, working hard, using all our energy to be only a little better than animals. Every time you see a Karadi, you won't hate him. You'll think maybe he's going to tell you some good news about Freddie. It was all a mistake. They want that, too. They feed on our sorrow and despair and confusion. There is a word for them and their invasion and why they are here. They don't need us, our resources. They feed on what we feel. They are a -- a sadistic fungi." "Fred! Eat your supper and you'll feel better. You must be half frozen." "It's warmer in here." Mrs. Friedlander shivered, although she stood near the stove. "It's still cold. I hope it's warm where Freddie is." He slapped her and was glad when she cried, then sorry, then glad again when she came into his arms, sobbing. They would make funeral arrangements in the morning. After supper a man from the Karadi newspaper visited them. He wore a new overcoat and shining plastic overshoes and a bright scarf of red wool around his neck. His face was plump, his cheeks rosy, his well-groomed hair smelling of some expensive perfume when he removed hat and earlaps. "Mr. and Mrs. Friedlander," he said, his voice like the dimly remembered taste of pure maple syrup, "I bring you the heartfelt sympathies of the Karadi Newspaper. If it is any consolation, know that your son, Freddie Friedlander, Jr., died a hero's death against the barbarians of the mountains." His nose was running with the cold; he padded it daintily with a pale blue silk handkerchief. He offered Mr. Friedlander a small, dry-crackling cigar, took one himself and touched flame to them with a monogramed lighter. Mr. Friedlander inhaled gratefully, allowing the unfamiliar smoke to sear his lungs painfully before he exhaled a long blue plume at the ceiling. For Mrs. Friedlander the man from the Karadi Newspaper had a small box of candy, the chocolate frozen over with powdery white but, by the expression on Mrs. Friedlander's face, succulent nevertheless. "At times like this," the man from the Karadi Newspaper said after he had politely refused what was left of the yellow turnip mash, "it is customary to place an ad in the newspaper in memory of the departed. The cost, in such cases, is quite reasonable -- benevolent, you might say. Seven days of overtime for Mr. Friedlander." "But," said Mrs. Friedlander, "if we place the announcement in the Karadi Newspaper, don't you see? We are admitting Freddie is dead." The man from the Karadi Newspaper cocked an eyebrow in practiced surprise. "He is quite dead, Mrs. Friedlander." "What my wife means is that, well, we didn't see him die." "Then you don't believe the Karadi?" "That's not it at all," said Mr. Friedlander. "If Freddie is dead, it is unhealthy not to believe. We want to believe. We find it difficult." "I understand," the man said. "I would suggest a large ad in that case. Two weeks overtime, Mr. Friedlander. Write it yourself. Don't use any of the forms. Write it from your heart, from what you feel deep inside." "I suppose that is best," Mr. Friedlander admitted, secretly amazed at his own objective reaction to his son's passing. The sorrow would come later, he told himself. The grief, when it came, would be good. It would wash them clean so they could live again. Even at the funeral. He guessed, they would walk slowly with measured tread and be sad, but they would expect Freddie to join them in their sadness, as if it were a funeral but not his funeral at all. Mr. Friedlander was about to tell this to the man from the Karadi Newspaper because he thought it was a great truth and he had discovered it, when there was a knock on the door. It was Mr. Davidson from downstairs on the second floor, a small old man, just bones and clothing and a high voice, who lived alone in the apartment where his wife had died four years before of old age. It was said the Karadi wanted old men like Mr. Davidson to go on living because they were unproductive and had to be cared for by younger people who could hardly make ends meet, thus lowering the standard of living. Everyone in the tenament took turns inviting Mr. Davidson in for dinner. "Beautiful snow, isn't it?" Mr. Davidson demanded, puckering his dry lips in a toothless grin. "Have you heard about Freddie? Have you heard the news?" He seemed spitefully cheerful, Mr. Friedlander thought. Happy because he had outlived a man two generations his junior? If, indeed, it was such a case of sadistic glee -- so like the Karadi themselves -- Mr. Friedlander made a mental note to stop inviting the old man to share their dinner. "Yes, sir, great news," chirped Mr. Davidson. Then: "Who's your friend?" "He's from the Karadi Newspaper," Mrs. Friedlander explained. "Here to see about placing an announcement in the paper. "Damned quisling," spat Mr. Davidson. The old folks certainly had privileges. That remark would mean a month of overtime for Mr. Friedlander, who turned earthenware kitchen pots on an archaic wheel. All it earned Mr. Davidson was a scowl from the man from the Karadi Newspaper. "What great news are you talking about?" the man wanted to know. "Great news? Who said anything about great news? Why don't you mind your own business, anyway?" "You said it, old man. Great news, you said. I want to know." "Maybe I did and maybe I didn't." "You did." "Don't always remember. Just what were we talking about? Freddie Friedlander, wasn't it?" "Yes." "Like I said, great news. We all don't get to die a hero's death. No, sir. Lookit me, now. Die in bed one of these nights, just like that." Claw-like fingers snapped and made a singularly dry sound. "Who'll care? Who'll know until I don't show up for dinner one night? Great news. Great thing to die a hero's death, I always say." The man from the Karadi Newspaper smiled. "I certainly misunderstood you, old timer. I like your attitude. If the boy is dead, let's look at the bright side of the picture." All at once, Mrs. Friedlander wailed Freddie's name and cupped her face in coarse, work-hardened hands. "Freddie's dead," she sobbed. "Dead, dead, dead... Mr. Friedlander gulped and turned away. If he touched her now he would break down too. He plopped a fork in the turnip mash and made little tracks with the tines, criss-crossing them like the tracks in the deserted railroad yards down by the river. "You see," the man from the Karadi Newspaper said, "that's exactly what I said. The announcement is good for you. Let other people know about Freddie and you'll be able to live with your terrible loss. This man has been very helpful." "Please," Mr. Friedlander told him. "Not now." "But now is exactly the time." The man explored through his pockets and found an announcement blank for Mr. Friedlander, a stiff yellow sheet of paper folded over crisply three times, with words printed in upper case letters and many blank lines to be filled in. Mr. Friedlander read it, handed it back to the man from the Karadi Newspaper, who then asked questions and filled in the blanks with a precise hand as Mr. Friedlander answered him. The man stood up, giving Mr. Friedlander another small cigar and giving two of them to Mr. Davidson. "Karadi blessings on you," he said. "You'll be notified at work about your overtime, Mr. Friedlander." "When will we see it in the newspaper?" "Tomorrow. Afternoon edition. Karadi blessings." The man was gone. "Go ahead and cry. It will do you good. Cry all you want." "Young jackass," muttered Mr. Davidson. "Thought he'd never leave. And don't you cry, young lady. Laugh. Sing. Jump for joy. I couldn't tell you the great news about Freddie while that man was here." "We heard about Freddie," Mr. Friedlander said in a chill voice. "Will you please go downstairs?" "You heard baloney, or you wouldn't be talking like that. Freddie ain't dead." "What did you say?" Mr. Friedlander stood perfectly still, in the center of the room, his back to the stove, trying to peer through the window which by now had frosted over. Mrs. Friedlander had stopped her crying, hands clasped in front of her, below her waist, in an obsequious Oriental pose which the Karadi promoted. "I said Freddie ain't dead." "What are you talking about?" "Heard it on the short-wave, by God. Wouldn't kid about a thing like this. I came busting in here to tell you, only that quisling was here and I had to wait." "You mean it's you who owns the short-wave set downstairs?" demanded Mr. Friedlander. "I never stopped on the landing. I always ran upstairs. You see, I didn't want to know who owned the shortwave, who listened to the -- " "The free radio, other side of the Rockies? Go ahead, say it. Listen to me, Mr. Friedlander. Those Karadi ain't here to stay. If you stopped to think of it a minute, you'd understand like the rest of us." "The rest of you?" "Well, a lot of us, anyway. They don't need us. We have nothing they want. They enjoy making us knuckle under, is all. Something in their makeup, I don't know what. They won't stay here forever, though some of us won't be around long enough to see them #  go. "What's all that got to do with... ?" "With Freddie and the shortwave? He's been captured, Mr. Friedlander! By the free folk. He's on their side now, the side all of us want to be on but can't be. He's alive, you understand?" "You wouldn't just be saying this? You're sure?" "Wouldn't you trust the word of your own people, the people who saw him come down by parachute, who took him in, got his name and beamed it back here so you, his folks, wouldn't have to worry none? Well, wouldn't you?" "Yes!" Mrs. Friedlander cried in a tremulous voice. "Oh, yes..." "Sensible girl," said Mr. Davidson. Walking to the window and wiping away a circle of frost with his hand, Mr. Friedlander felt a spring in his step he hadn't felt for twenty years, since the day the Karadi came swooping down from space and caught the world in a tired Freddie was alive -- and safe. Freddie was free. He must tell everyone. He must shout it now, to all the neighbors, and shout it again at work tomorrow, and withdraw his announcement from the Karadi Newspaper and a hundred other things. He lifted the warped window, with cardboard replacing two of the shattered panes, and breathed in the crisp, cold night air. "I'll visit the newspaper in the morning," he said. "Tell them to forget all about the announcement." He turned around and faced his wife and Mr. Davidson. "What are you crying for? Stop crying." "I'm so happy, Fred." "Maybe I can get down to the newspaper now and see their night man." "Hold on there," Mr. Davidson said. "Are you crazy or something, young feller? Want to fit the noose around my neck yourself? Not just me, but all the others. Think I'm the only one? There's Mr. and Mrs. Peters, and the Schwartz's, the McDonalds, the Kopaks. You're just slow catching on, that's all." "You mean they all have shortwaves, all those people?" "That's exactly what I mean. We have to find freedom our own way. Oh, we conform. We cry when we're supposed to, and laugh. But at night we listen to the radio and learn some of the truth, so that when the Karadi get bored with us and decide to leave, we can take our places in a free world. Took me two years to build that short-wave out of spare parts, but it was worth every minute." "What do you do when they come around hunting?" Mr. Friedlander asked. "Hide it, of course. Son, you're afraid of your own shadow." "I am not. I just didn't know." "For a time we were worried about you. Thought maybe you was a quisling. Now I had to take the chance. I just had to tell you. Listen, here's the thing. Here's what we'll do. We'll let the announcement stick in the paper. Got to make them think we believe. Then we'll have ourselves a real solemn funeral out to the graveyard near #nd Street. Know a preacher who'll wring every last tear out of all of us. I mean all. We'll all go. The Kopaks, the Schwartz's, the Peters, everyone who heard in on the short-wave about Freddie and how he's alive and everything. The sadder we look, the happier we'll feel, later on. Then we'll have ourselves a real old fashioned celebration, like before the Karadi came. Mr. McDonald says he has a bottle of real champagne he was saving for when his girl Betty got married, but I talked him into letting us use it. Son, we'll pull out all the stops. Of course, you can't really get looped on an ounce or so of champagne, but we sure can try! Well, see you at the funeral." And Mr. Davidson went downstairs, cackling and whistling the dirge from Beethoven's Eroica. "Well," said Mr. Friedlander to his wife, "what do you think?" "I think it's wonderful. That nice man, going to all that trouble." "I'm not so sure. What do we know about Mr. Davidson? Maybe he's lying. Maybe he's -- " "He wouldn't lie, not about a thing like that." "I know how you feel. I felt that way at first, too. Free and -- well, relaxed for the first time in so long I can't remember. But then I got to thinking. What if he's senile? What if he imagined the whole thing? It would be a sin to celebrate, with Freddie dead." "We could ask Mr. Peters, or the others. And Freddie's not dead!" "That's what you want to believe. It's what I want to believe, too." Mr. Friedlander walked to the window again, where the pane was frosting over once more, giving a ghostlike quality to the street, the lamps, the facades of the other tenaments, the snow-laden trees outside. He wanted to believe. But he had wanted to believe, in his one day end. When it did, the Karadi had come, with talk of peace -- although with their invincible weapons they had disarmed all the world's armies and, instead of rebuilding, had made a shambles of our civilization. Every day the Karadi told lies and told you to believe. And planted spies to see that you did. And visited you at unexpected moments to see that you conformed. And trained your children to fight against free people, free people who they said were your enemies. And gave extra clothing rations to a spy, to a believer, to a man in the Karadi image. "We can't ask the others," Mr. Friedlander said. "What if Mr. Davidson was lying, or making it all up? You can't go around talking about short-waves and things. It isn't safe." "We have to know!" "Do you want to be turned in as an undesirable? Is that what you want? We already know. The Karadi told us." The more he spoke, the easier it was to convince himself. You couldn't live with doubt. The Karadi fostered doubt and taught you that: you had to avoid it. You had to know. This is so, this is not so -- if this other thing may or may not be so, I don't want to talk about it. Alternative A or alternative B. Simple. Concise. What did old Mr. Davidson know, anyway, listening to his subversive radio? Why should the barbarians in the mountains tell the truth any more than the Karadi or their agents? The barbarians are our enemies. It's propaganda. Maybe Mr. Davidson is a saboteur for them. "Is that clear?" Mr. Friedlander demanded. "Is that quite, quite clear? Cry if you want. Freddie is dead. Freddie is dead. Dead. You can't believe all the wild stories you hear." Mrs. Friedlander was smiling at him through her tears, wiping them away, assuming again the Oriental pose. "You believe what you want," she said. "We won't celebrate. We won't pretend. We'll say Freddie is dead. But I'll believe -- what I believe. And I'm thankful to Mr. Davidson." "So you can live in doubt all the rest of your life? For that you're thankful?" "I'm thankful for a crumb when I expected nothing. Where are you going?" Mr. Friedlander was buckling his worn overcoat and forcing his shoes into wet overshoes. "Out for a walk," he said. "I want to think." "It's a cold night." "I don't care." falling, drifting down in unhurried silence, he found himself hating Mr. Davidson. The man should have minded his own business. Old meddler. He was a menace to the community, too. Whose side was he on, anyway? A senile old man? An agent provocateur for the barbarians in the western mountains? Was his self-appointed mission in life to see to it that people like poor Mrs. Friedlander never knew another moment of peace all the rest of their lives? The short-wave radio -- all lies. It had to be lies. If it weren't lies you could understand nothing. Black is white or white is black. Everyone saying something else. You don't know. You never know. He didn't want to start any trouble. He wasn't looking for trouble. He was only a good, Karadi-fearing citizen who knew his place. But Mr., Davidson had made a revelation to him. If all the others, if all those people Mr. Davidson had named, chuckling over each name, taking secret delight in each one as if he, the patriarch of the tenament had converted them, one at a time or in groups, into clandestine outlaws, if all those people were subversive, thought Mr. Friedlander, why should he suffer along with them? Was it fair that he received the same inadequate food, the same squalid lodging, the same menial jobs to perform? He knew his place. But they had told him about Freddie -- or Mr. Davidson, their spokesman, had -- and he owed them something for that, for the one brief moment in which they had shoved back the snow, the grim cold winter, the bleak building and the smell of turnips, as a curtain, and revealed his own youth to him, sparkling with hope, with promise, with a life unfulfilled. No! Even that had been unkind. Premeditated? His lot would be all the more unpleasant for it. And Mrs. Friedlander's. They'd sealed her in a half-mourning, half-hoping future. They'd ruined her whole life. He'd have to move, of course, with his wife. But perhaps they'd earn the right to a better neighborhood. He walked up the six snowcovered steps to the police station, went inside, sat down and started telling the uniformed figure at the desk about the subversives in his building who owned short-wave radios, starting with Mr. Davidson and going right on down the list. He hoped the Karadi would come and take them away before the funeral.     -- I'll join 'em. Why -- why die a martyr's death?" Of course, Jay told himself. Logical. But Kevin had been so convinced. So utterly sure. Now he looked and sounded like a disillusioned old man. "Kevin, I'm not trying to rub it in. But -- " "I know what you're going to say. I was so sure. Paradise. I was a firm disciple. Convinced. I believed in all of it. I -- thought it would last forever. The perfect government. A permanently workable government." Jay sat quietly. Ilaria reached for the switch. "For God's sake," came the voice of #, "what is the perfect workable government?" Ilaria closed the switch and the light blinded Jay. He felt as if someone had slugged him in the stomach. Slowly the machine prepared to send him back one-hundred years. It warmed up like a jet on a runway. The light faded and Jay opened his eyes. The building rocked. There was a terrific explosion and part of the steel wall buckled. Somewhere a woman screamed. A squadron of fighters hurtled past, spitting fire and death. A bomber fell, exploding as it crashed into a tall apartment building. Jay's stomach twisted and he knew he was on his way. Ilaria took his gun from his holster and calmly placed its ugly snout against his own face. "... the perfect workable govvemment?" Jay's question of a moment ago reached his ears as he began to slip back, minute by minute, picking up momentum. Ilaria's reply came dimly. "There is none."    There are human beings who junction "like machines" and there are machines which seem to be "almost human". So -- the problem in this case was not murder, or who committed it but who was the "machine" and who was the "human being". Smith became Isobel Smith d'Larte. On November #, # Isobel Smith d'Larte gave birth to a boy-child who died. And on March #, # Isobel Smith d'Larte was placed on trial for the willful and premeditated murder of her husband Arnaud d'Larte. "Not Isobel," said her friends. "Not Isobel. Too mousey. So quiet. Surely it wasn't Isobel." "But it's the quiet type you've got to watch out for," said others. "Probably has a lover somewhere. She was younger than her husband you know. Much younger. Too much younger."  "Killed him for his money' said the people on the street. "Read where she likes art and museums, stuff like that. Must be a queer one that Isobel d'Larte." The accusations piled high against Isobel, but she said nothing. She sat in court, a tiny figure in black saying nothing, seemingly not even listening to the accusations of the Prosecutor. "We will prove willful and premeditated murder," the Prosecutor thundered. "Easily done," an old woman in the audience murmured spitefully. "Young wife, old husband. Rich husband. Murder! Easily proved." "First witness," the Prosecutor called. "Sergeant Melot." Sergeant Melot took the stand. The witness chair creaked under his weight. He answered a loud, "I do," when the clerk swore him in. "Tell us about finding the body," the Prosecutor said. "Miss no details." "A Mrs. Watson, servant of Arnaud d'Larte, called us at nine five P.M. on March #. Her master was dead, she said. When we answered her call we found Mr. d'Larte's body in his bedroom. He had been dead for about an hour." "The cause?" "Beaten to death. Beaten with an iron statue of Venus. Evidence of a struggle. Twenty wounds on his head." "Twenty wounds, Sergeant Melot?" "Twenty. The first, or second, would have been enough to kill him. But there were twenty." The audience gasped and the Prosecutor smiled. "And where was Mrs. d'Larte?" he asked. "Locked in her bedroom. Had to break the door down to get to her." "Did you speak to her?" "We spoke to her, but she didn't speak to us." The audience laughed and the judge rapped for silence. "The iron statue of Venus, the one found near Mr. d'Larte's body, you found fingerprints on it, did you not?" Sergeant Melot nodded. "Whose fingerprints were they, Sergeant Melot?" "Mrs. d'Larte's." "Your witness," the Prosecutor told the Defense. "No questions," said the Defense. "Why ask questions," a spectator commented. "She's guilty." "Next witness." "Mrs. Abby Watson to the stand please." Abby Watson strode to the witness chair. Her shrew-like eyes flicked sharply towards Isobel d'Larte then away. Her answer to the clerk who swore her in was sharp and positive. "How long have you worked for Mr. d'Larte?" the Prosecutor asked. "Fifteen years." "In your opinion Mr. d'Larte was a good employer?" "The best. A wonderful man, but a lonely one. That woman tricked him into marriage. Played on his loneliness." "Objection." "Objection sustained. Confine yourself to the questions please." "Mr. d'Larte was older than his wife?" the Prosecutor asked. "Eighteen years older." "Was it a happy marriage?" "At first, at least on his part. He was contented, but she seemed restless. Always wanted to go to museums and see paintings, or playing her silly antique records all day. Not content with the government 'Do-It-Yourself' kits. Called them mechanical and expressionless. She insulted Mr. d'Larte's friends time and again. Called them frauds. Said their paintings, books and plays were terrible. Said that real talent was dead. "You said she spent a lot of time in museums?" "I didn't say it, but she did. Every chance she got. She'd be gone for hours." "Which museum? The one commemorating the wars? The Museum of Mechanics?" "None of those. She'd go to the old one on the hill. That horrible thing with the relics of the past in it. The one run by the robots. The one run by the government to remind us of the past when only a few were allowed talent and not everybody like today. But I think she went to the museum for another reason. No one could really be interested in those things they have there." "What do you think she went for, Mrs. Watson?" "To meet her lover. Shortly before he was killed Mr. d'Larte confessed to me that he was of the same opinion." "See, I told you she had a lover," someone whispered. "Old husband, young wife. I just knew there was a lover." "Objection," said the Defense. "There is no proof that Mrs. d'Larte went to the museum to meet a lover. There are only opinions, guesses." "If your honor will permit me to call my next witness I think I can prove that there was a lover," the Prosecutor said. The judge leaned forward in eager anticipation. "Call your witness." "Bella Whychek." A fat, dumpy, flame-haired woman made her way to the witness stand. As she was sworn in she tugged self-consciously at her too tight girdle. "Miss Whychek -- " "Mrs... I'm a widow." "Mrs. Whychek, would you tell us where you are employed." "Timon's and Sons. I'm a secretary there." "And where is your office located." "In the building just across the street from the Museum of the Past -- the one you were just talking about to that other woman." "Mrs. Whychek, do you recognize the woman sitting over there?" the Prosecutor asked as he pointed to Isobel d'Larte. "Indeed I do. I saw her most everyday." "Would you tell us the circumstances." "Well, from the window in my office I have a very good view of the park that is next to the museum. About a month ago I began noticing that woman in the park. I couldn't help but notice her, she came so often." "Alone, Mrs. Whychek?" "At first yes. She'd go into the museum, stay about two hours or so, then come out and sit in the park. She never did anything but sit." "Was she always alone?" "I was just coming to that. After about a week I noticed that a man would come and sit with her in the park." "Could you describe the man?" "No, I'm afraid I couldn't. He always wore a long overcoat and a hat pulled down over his face. Both the overcoat and the hat were very old though. I did notice that. They looked like they might have dated from around #." "And what did this man and Mrs. d'Larte do in the park?" "Just sat. Talked I guess. I never saw them kiss or anything if that's what you mean. Of course many times they would still be sitting there when I left work. What they did after that I don't know." "But Mrs. d'Larte definitely did meet a man in the park." "Oh, yes. She met him nearly every day for almost a month." "Thank you. Your witness." The Defense rose slowly and walked over to where Mrs. Whychek sat. "Remember you are under oath, Mrs. Whychek," he said. "You say Mrs. d'Larte and this man merely sat and talked?" "As far as I could tell that's all they did. Of course I didn't watch them every minute." "Then you can say that they never did anything out of the way, that their meetings, if they were that, were innocent?" "As far as I could tell they were." "Could you say whether the meetings were prearranged?" "I really couldn't, but -- " "That will be all, thank you," the Defense interrupted. So the first day of the trial went. There seemed no doubt that Isobel d'Larte was guilty. Her friends admitted loudly that poor Isobel had scandalized them to the core. The papers labeled Isobel queer and hinted that her lover, whoever he might be, killed Mr. d'Larte for her. Old fashioned Isobel, they called her. Some had other names for her. trial the Defense called its witnesses. There were only three. Two were character witnesses who hesitantly assured the court that Isobel d'Larte could not have killed her husband. She really was a good woman. The third witness was Isobel herself. When she was called she rose very slowly and walked to the witness stand. She was sworn in and seated herself in the witness chair. Her face and hands were chalk white against the blackness of her dress. "Mrs. d'Larte, did you kill your husband?" the Defense asked. "No." "Do you know who did kill your husband?" "No." "Why did you lock yourself in your bedroom the night he was killed." "I wanted to be alone." The spectators giggled. "Could you explain how your fingerprints came to be on the iron statue of Venus? The statue that killed your husband." "It was my statue. It is quite possible that my fingerprints would be on it." "And you heard nothing, no sounds of struggle, the night your husband was killed?" "No. I slept awhile that night. I was tired so I locked my door and slept. I heard nothing." "Do you know who would want to kill your husband?" "An enemy I suppose." "Did your husband have any enemies?" "Of course, everyone does. Even God has enemies." That shocked the spectators, but then Isobel had meant it to. Quite suddenly she found herself hating those in the packed court room. Hating these upright citizens who had come to delight in her misfortune. Who sat in smug holierthan-thou attitudes and hoped for the worst. Not one among them really cared what happened to her -- as long as it entertained them. Isobel shivered. "Could you be more specific about your husband's enemies?" the Defense asked. "No. He never confided in me. He was only interested in his munitions factories. In machines. He loved machines. He particularly loved destructive machines. Some hated him for that." "The man Mrs. Whychek said you met in the park. Was there such a man?" Isobel twisted her handkerchief. It was a thin, white snake in her hands. "Was there a man, Mrs. d'Larte?" the Defense repeated. "There was a man." "Could you tell us his name?" "I do not know his name. He was a man I met in the park. He was a kind and gentle man. We talked about art, music -- the beautiful old art and music. He was well informed about such things. We talked a lot, but I don't know his name. We just talked." "Were you in love with this man, or he with you?" "No! No!" "You definitely were not lovers?" "We were not!" "Thank you, Mrs. d'Larte. Your witness." The Prosecutor approached the witness stand. "Mrs. d'Larte, you do not like the 'Do-It-Yourself' kits the government has put out, do you?" "I do not." "You do not approve or recognize the fact that today everyone is conceded to have talent, do you?" "I do not." "Why, Mrs. d'Larte?" "Anyone can paint, but everyone isn't an artist. Anyone can write, but everyone isn't an author. Anyone can do anything, but everyone does not have talent." "So you spent a great deal of your time in the Museum of the Past looking at the so-called art treasures there?" "Yes. They were worth looking at." "And you did not use that to cover up the fact that you met your lover at the museum?" "I do not have a lover." "The man you met in the park, you just talked to him?" "We talked about the wonderful, the beautiful things in the museum. He knew about them and loved them as I did. There was no one else I could talk to about them." "Naturally," the Prosecutor sneered. "Everyone else knows what frauds they are." The spectators laughed. "Then I like the frauds," Isobel said quietly. "You claim you were in your bedroom with the door locked and asleep when Mr. d'Larte was killed. Is that right?" "That is right." "And even though your bedroom is right next to Mr. d'Larte's you heard nothing. Is that right?" "Yes." "Your husband struggled, struggled hard before he died, Mrs. d'Larte. You'll forgive me if I seem skeptical of the fact that you heard nothing." "I was asleep. I heard nothing." "No cry? No crashes?" "I heard nothing!" "And the man in the park -- he was not your lover?" "He was not my lover." The Prosecutor turned to the judge with a grim smile. "Your honor, I request a recess so that I may bring in a new witness." "This witness is not in the court room?" "No. I myself only learned of him a few minutes ago. It will take about a half-hour to bring him here." "And this witness is important?" "Yes. I believe he can prove that Mrs. d'Larte is lying." "Then this court is recessed until the prosecution brings in the new witness." The spectators buzzed and jibbered excitedly. A new witness. A surprise witness. The trial was really becoming interesting. "I hate to leave. I really hate to leave," one said to her companion. "I'll never get back in if I leave. But one must eat. I hate to leave." "No need. No need to leave," the companion assured her. "See, I brought sandwiches. Always bring something to eat to things like this. People crowd so. It's really terrible. Have an egg?" "Pretty good trial," an old man with a white beard told the person next to him. "Not as good as the Bronson trial, but pretty good." "You've seen a lot of trials?" the figure next to him asked. "Seen all the good ones," the one with the beard said proudly. "Saw the Bronson trial in '#, the Treamont trial in '#. Saw a lot of trials. First time that I've seen one where a wife killed her husband. Most of the others involved infanticide. Good trials, you understand, but disappointing. All the verdicts were not guilty." "Naturally. With over-population infanticide isn't a crime. Rather' more like a good deed these days." "Understand they are going to children." "Should have been done long  ago. "People should be more careful. If they don't want children, they should be more careful." "If you know you can get rid of them, why be careful?" A woman fanned herself with her pocketbook and glanced at her companion. "Have another sandwich, dear?" "No, on a diet you know." The companion sighed. "It's too bad that they abolished capital punishment. Believe me, this d'Larte hussy deserves it." "But it's so much better the way they do it now, I mean sending the guilty to the wars to fight in the front lines. Might as well get some no use out of them." husband? Divorcing them is so much easier. Only takes a day and you get half the husband's earnings" "You should know, dear. You've done it enough." "Only seven times." "I thought it was eight?" "I don't count Rodger. The lout killed himself so he wouldn't have to pay me a settlement. Ah, here comes the judge." ly as the judge entered, then reseated themselves and buzzed in anticipation. "Your witness has arrived?" the judge asked. "Yes, Your Honor," the Prosecutor replied. "Then call him." The witness was called and sworn in as the spectators gawked at him eagerly. "Good looking. Dark. Evil eyes though. Black eyes. I like dark eyes, don't you?" "Dark blue coat. Lime green sports shirt. Nice combination. Must have a suit made with those colors." "Nasty look about that fellow. Wouldn't trust him." "Who is he?" "Shhhhhhhhhh !" Isobel d'Larte stared at the witness in fear. "Your name, please," the Prosecutor demanded of the witness. "Andy Kirk." "You are Mr. d'Larte's nephew?" "Yep." "What do you do for a living, Mr. Kirk?" "Anything, but basically I'm an artist." "Is that what you are doing at the present time, Mr. Kirk?" "No. Everybody's an artist today. No room for a good one, a real one." "Then what do you do, Mr. Kirk?" the Prosecutor asked in exasperation. "Don't shout. I didn't ask to come here." "What do you do for a living?" the Prosecutor asked quietly. "Arnaud -- Mr. d'Larte -- paid me to follow his wife. To spy on her. He paid very well." The spectators gasped happily. "Now we'll hear something," someone said in a stage whisper. The judge rapped for silence. "Why did Mr. d'Larte pay you to follow his wife?" "He thought she had a lover." "But you heard Mrs. d'Larte claim that she did not have a lover." "No, I didn't. How could I? I wasn't here." Laughter rippled through the crowded room and the judge rapped for silence. The Prosecutor frowned angrily. "Mrs. d'Larte said under oath that she did not have a lover." "She lied." "Can you prove that she lied?" "I suppose so." "And they were really lovers?" "Mrs. d'Larte told me that she loved him." "And he loved her I suppose." "Mrs. d'Larte loved him." "How long were they lovers?" "Nearly a month." "I repeat, can you prove it?" Ill "I can tell you who her lover is." "Then by all means do so." "No! Please, no," Isobel d'Larte cried. "I killed my husband." When order had been restored in the court the judge stared down at Isobel. "Am I to understand that you confess to the murder of Arnaud d'Larte?" "Yes," Isobel said softly. "I hated him and I killed him. I killed with the iron statue of Venus. I hit him with it till he died and I hit him with it after he was dead. I killed him." Andy Kirk smiled. It only took a short time to bring in a verdict of guilty against Isobel d'Larte. She accepted the verdict silently and without flinching. In like manner she accepted her sentence. She was to be sent to fight in the front lines of the war in Asia. "I declare this court adjourned," the judge said and banged his gavel down authoritatively. As Isobel d'Larte was taken from the room she was led passed Andy Kirk. Seeing him, she stopped and stared at him coldly. "Why did you do this to me?" she asked. "To help you. If the trial had continued the way it had you would have been judged insane and executed here in the States. In Asia you may have a chance." "Does it make a difference if I have a chance? No one really cares." "You may find what you've been looking for over there." "You think so?" "I hope so." "I don't understand you, Andy." "Sometimes one must do bad to do good." Isobel stared at him not understanding his words, then the guard led her away. Isobel d'Larte spent the night in jail, and the next morning, along with twenty other prisoners, was taken to the rocketport to be sent to Asia. At the rocket-port the prisoners were allowed to say their goodbyes to their families without the benefit of guards. Isobel stood alone watching the tearful farewells, then walked slowly into the cafeteria. As she sat alone at the corner table drinking coffee a tall man dressed in an old fashioned top coat and with an old fashioned hat pulled down over his face walked up to the table and sat down opposite her. Isobel looked at the figure happily. "I knew you would come." "Why did you confess?" "I did not want them to know about us. They would have made it all so ugly sounding. They would have made it sound vile... and it wasn't." Isobel reached out a hand towards the figure and a metal hand closed over hers. "I didn't want them to harm you." "You did it for me?" "Yes. I love you." "I'm a robot. A machine. An unfeeling thing of iron and steel. How can you love me?" "My husband was the machine. He ate at the same time everyday, dressed at the same time, went to work at the same time. He did the same things, thought the same things everyday of his life." "But he had emotion." "Only those he had been taught to feel and those only at the proper times. He was mad when he should be mad and happy when he should be happy, nothing more. He was much more of a machine than you." "But I cannot return your love. I do not know what emotion is." "I had to have someone," Isobel cried. "I had to have someone who was kind to me. You liked what I liked. You could talk to me of something besides machines. Machines do everything now. But you could talk to me of art, music, beauty." "My creator taught me those things. Taught me to care for those things in the museum. I would miss them if they were taken away." "Yes." Sudden tears stung Isobel's eyes. No one would miss her. No one would care about her. "I will miss you too, Isobel. I will miss you very much."  "As much as the things in the museum?" "As much as those. More." Isobel stood up, leaned over and kissed the metal cheek of the one opposite her. "Then it was worth it." "All prisoners assemble on the runway," a harsh voice boomed over the loudspeaker. "Perhaps someday I call learn to return love," the robot said. "You have done more than that. You have made me happy." "Come back safely, Isobel." Isobel d'Larte ran to the runway and joined the other prisoners. They looked at her strangely not understanding her smile. Isobel barely noticed them, for she was happy. Someone cared for her. That was the important thing. Someone cared.    He stood by the door, listening to his heart rattle crazily in his chest. He opened the door. The apartment was calm, silent. The walls glowed around the framed Miros and Mondrians and Picassos. The furniture sat functionally on the silky white rug, black thin-legged chairs and tables... Austin started to laugh, carefully checked himself. He knew he probably would not be able to stop. He thought strongly about Tcheletchew, and of the men who would come to Mbarara in the morning. He thought of the city teeming with life. Of the daylight streaming onto the streets of people, the shops, the churches, the schools. His work. His dream... He walked across the rug to the bedroom door. It was slightly ajar. He pushed it, went inside, closed it softly. "Mag," he whispered. "Mag -- " There was a noise. A low, throaty rumble. Not of anger; of warning. Richard Austin came close to the bed, adjusted his eyes to the black light. Then he screamed. It was the first time he had ever watched a lion feeding.    Strange aircraft you may be seeing any day now are not Martian. British designers have come up with a radical new wing design -- the crescent shaped wing -- different from anything now breaking the sound barrier. Used either curving forward or curving toward the back of the ship they make a strange spectacle indeed. But claims are that they make for much less wind resistance... and much more stability. Summer vacation clothes may soon include disposable bathing suits. A specially processed wall paper has been found to have high "wet strength" and several feminine bathing suits have been made of it and are undergoing strenuous tests this year. Transoceanic information radioed from one punch card to another will be an invaluable business blessing in the near future. A recent experiment had information originating in North Africa received in Washington, D.G. faster, more accurately and more economically than any previous system of transmitting such detailed statistical data. A machine operator loaded a data tranceiver with cards containing information recorded as punched holes in the cards. As the tranceiver "read" the cards, it generated electronic impulses representing the holes. The impulses sent by radio actuated the punching mechanism of a tranceiver set up in Washington which created exact duplicates of the cards fed into the North African machine; thus supplying a punch card immediately available for machine processing, and eliminating several steps in accounting procedure. Moving coal, iron ore and other raw materials may someday be done by a system of endless belts set up across the country. A working model of just such a belt conveyor has already been designed to link Lake Erie with the Ohio River one hundred miles away. If legislation can be passed to give the belt the status of a common carrier, it will be built to shuttle iron ore and coal from river barges to Great Lake carriers or to storage bins. Travelling employees may get an earful or instructions in the future through a new vest pocket radio that resembles a hearing aid. Powered by two pen-sized flashlight cells that work for a month, and with a loud-speaker that is worn like a hearing aid earpiece, this midget marvel can be tuned to "receive" certain wavelengths. The boss can "broadcast" instructions without interference; and channels could be modified to decimal places so that there would be no crossed instructions possible. The key to future immortality may not lie in drugs, beneficial rays or electrical vibrations but in austerity. Science has been making some rather extensive tests that seem to prove that abstinence from such vices as smoking, drinking of alcoholic beverages and tea and coffee, sweet and fatty foods and sexual activity prolongs the life of individuals. Electrical companies may be owning and operating their own atomic power plants within the next ten years. Introduction of the light water-moderated and cooled boiling reactor and the graphite-moderated water-cooled reactor have made early effective competition with conventional fuel plants both very possible and much more economical. Remote areas of the world may someday be the sites of atomic age pyramids. Such "tombs" would be the burial grounds of radioactive waste fission products from atomic power plants. Assuming that atomic power will be coming into widespread use by the end of the century, there would be three tons of "hot" waste from the many reactors to be disposed of each day. Science believes that we shall need to isolate and control such waste in desert "burial grounds" to solve the menace that this type of waste poses. Space explorers may find that the canals of Mars are really long narrow drifts of volcanic ash. According to a new theory based on a pattern of the prevailing winds on Mars, the dark green markings may be streaks of drifts made by the winds during the Martian summers. Such ash would be green because of the dry oxygen-poor atmosphere. The theory further expounds the idea that such conditions would correspond to early stages in the development of Earth; and the red planet may possibly be one on which oceans have yet to form, and which life has yet to appear. Cities of the future may be hiring electronic watchmen. One already in operation in New York City is concentrating its tubes and wires upon the changing demands for electrical power. It takes into consideration short time demands that come and go continuously and increases power generation as the sustained load goes up. All of this is done automatically, efficiently and economically. Other "watchmen" for a myriad number of other jobs of the same type are under serious consideration. A look at the future of atomic power indicates that power plants will run on liquid metals which will supply fuel, control the reaction and transfer the heat out where it can be utilized. Lead, bismuth and tin or combinations of these "lighter" metals will be used. Studies are now being made to work out a method whereby the liquids would clean themselves of "ashes" of debris. This new kind of atomic power plant would not only use uranium for power, but would constantly provide uranium anew from less valuable Thorium, which can be bred into U # and then fissioned. Weather forecasts "untouched by human hands" are part of a plan for the future. Some weathermen foresee a time when required data on winds, temperatures and pressures will be automatically recorded, then relayed by radio directly to a computer for calculation of forthcoming weather. Using numerical weather prediction a giant brain could then make forecasts as far in advance as thirty days. A mechanical cougher, which operates like two vacuum cleaners alternately blowing air into the lungs and sucking it out again, may someday be used to save thousands of lives. An experimental working model has already been tried on babies, older children and grown-, ups who accidentally inhaled buttons, pins, fishbones and so on. This new "cougher" has the advantage over the bronchoscope now in use in that it can reach places inaccessible to the instruments now used. The toughest armor of all was given to Earth by Mother Nature. It is air -- plain everyday air -- the kind we breathe. And here's how it performs the function of the "world's toughest armor." ing "bombs" from outer space shoot with deathly force and incredible speed at the face of the Earth. These "bombs" are meteors, believed to be debris from comets, which head for Earth at speeds up to # miles per second and in such masses that an entire city could be destroyed. However, as the bombardment of meteors hits the Earth's atmosphere, about # miles up, the resistance is too much and the meteors disintegrate, breaking up into fractions of their original size and burning themselves out in tails of fire. The biggest known meteorite (as they are called after they land) to hit the Earth landed in Kansas in #. It weighed # pounds; other pieces of the same meteorite found in that area weighed up to # pounds. Hoarseness is not to be taken too lightly. According to a report from it can be caused by more than # different diseases which affect the delicate vocal cords. Hoarseness is symtomatic of a number of things, such as colds, cheering or talking long and loud, too much smoking, or any of a number of ordinary causes. It can also be the signal that a malignancy has developed -- tuberculosis, tumor or cancer. Serious hoarseness can be associated with diseases of the heart and brain. So if you have a case of hoarseness that hangs on unduly long, see your doctor. # -- Pyrheliometer. # -- Karel Capek. # -- Lower. # -- Mercury. # -- Vega. # -- Red. #I -- Ten Miles. # -- Planetesimal. # -- Miranda. # -- Transit. # -- Clockwise. # -- Spacing. # -- Cephieds. # -- Messier. # -- Sixth. # -- Prominences. U# Important announcement for... future and bored with your pastimes -- don't despair. You've do something about it. Modem psychological testing can show you the way to a work you're best suited for. It can reveal your basic aptitudes, abilities and personality self, you can do something about changing your present and future. Do the simple tests in a few hours in your own home. Mail them to The Institute. Receive a comprehensive, confidential report by mail that may show you (as it has for so many others) the way to a better, bigger-paying job, to a happier future for yourself and your family. Get to know confidential and costs only # -- l#th of what similar in-person testing costs. But send no money write I An international language whose words and sounds could be  I understood by all men, regardless of the native tongue they speak   every day, has long been a goal. Over three hundred such lan  guages have been invented in the last century, but none has be  come a real tool for communication and understanding between I  nations.  I Now, a new tool is making it's debut. Not really new in the   words it uses, it has its roots in many languages. It uses the voI  cabulary of science and technology, which is common to almost  I all world languages. It uses English root words where they are   common to other languages and it has borrowed from the RoI  mance languages, Spanish, Italian, French, Portuguese, etc. The   troublesome intricacies of grammar have been discarded. There   is only one word form in each tense; and nouns, adjectives and I  verbs do not agree as they must in more complex tongues. Mil I lions will find the vocabulary basically familiar, for it is not a   new artificial language but one that uses the tools already at hand f  in simple uncomplicated ways. !  For those who feel that peace in the world will come closer I I if people talk to one another in a language all mankind can un  derstand, this "breaking" of the language barrier has a very great  I language for all the world. A natural language that has its roots   in the national tongues of all nations.  diabetes, the congenital digestive deformity he had inherited from a hundred ancestors kept alive by a superb medical science to breed her. She laid her cheek against his, the smooth velvet human-seeming cheek, with no hint as yet of the lumps of wild tissue waiting to proliferate within. "Please don't worry, George," she said softly. "It's not your fault, really." She smiled up at him. "I've lived a rough life, most of us do, in my time. Remember, I've earned what I received, I came here knowing what I was doing. It's just caught up with me. It had to, some day." He caught her in his arms and pulled her tightly to him. "Oh, God, honey," he said. "I didn't know, I didn't even think... I'd give anything..." he turned his face up blindly. "Please, Lord, let the bubble break," he prayed. "Let us not be, both together, now... But the bubble did not break. continued from back cover oo Mm lected from Fantasy and Science Fiction Magazine. The woman who became her own daughter... gambling on a strange planet -- See description on back cover. top stories by outstanding authors... stories of Wonders of Earth and Man... of startling inventions... of visitors from Outer Space... Adventure in Dimension... Worlds of Tomorrow. # pages. Thing that becomes whatever it meets. Plus many other best tales skimmed from a dozen years of Astounding Science-Fiction Magazine by its editor, John W. Campbell, Jr. by Hal Clement -- Charles the planet Mesklin. But the force of gravity there is so powerful the planet is squeezed almost flat -- and a fall of even a few inches can crush a human body to pou'dcr! by Isaac Asimov -- Robots are the most hated creatures on earth. Then a noted robot scientist is murdered. Detective Baley has to track down the killer. And -- he's given a robot partner! as a Angelo Pontevecchio can destroy the Earth -- or he can save it. But it's not up to him to decide what to do! Two Martians, posing as earthmen, have him in their power A Tucker -- Paul Breen y was a one-man secret weapon! From his hideout he could read the minds of enemy agents anywhere on earth! Then he got a brain wave that was about to be killed... not McIntosh -- Th estrange story of the last rocket ship to leave doomed Earth -- and the wouldbe dictator who couldn't find the people lie was trying to conquer! he bv loop Please rush me the # books checked below, as my gift books and first selection. Bill me only I for all three (plus small shipping charge), and enroll me as a member of the Science-Fiction Book Club. Every month send me the Club's free bulletin, "Things to Come," so that I may decide whether or not I wish to receive the coming monthly selection described therein. For each book I accept, I will pay only I plus small shipping charge. I do not have to take a book every month (only four during each year I am a member) -- and I may resign at any time after accepting four selections. this membership will be cancelled! Astounding Anthology  Best from Fantasy  Science Fiction i Born Leader G Caves of Steel  Mirror for Observers I Mission of Gravity j  Omnibus G Wild Talent Name... Address (please print) Zone State City Selection price in Canada # plus shipping. Address Science-Fiction Club, # Bond St., Toronto #. (Offer good only in U. S. and Canada). METEOROLOGICAL ROCKET APPROACHES SUN -- The sun, # miles in diameter and # miles from Earth, has a temperature of I # degrees Fahrenheit. The prominence spurting off the sun is a fiery tongue of hydrogen gas rising thousands of miles above the surface and traveling # miles per hour. The "pock marks" are sun spots, gigantic storm areas much cooler (relatively speaking) than the sun's surface. These sun spots, or storms, have considerable effect on the Earth, causing northern lights, radio disturbances and magnetic storms. All Stories New and Complete Cover by Anton Kurka Illustrating " The Earth Quarter" #  #  #  #  #  #  #  Meteorological Survey of the Sun IF is published monthly by Quinn Publishing Company, Inc. Volume #, No. #. Copyright # by Quinn Publishing Co., Inc. Office of publication, # Lord Street, Buffalo, New York. Entered as Second Class Matter at Post Office, Buffalo, New York. Subscription # for # issues in U.S. and Possessions; Canada # for # issues; elsewhere #. Allow four weeks for change of address. All stories appearing in this magazine are fiction; any similarity to actual persons is coincidental. Not responsible for unsolicited artwork or manuscripts. #c a copy. Printed in U.S.A. Next issue on sale December #th you're that man, here's something that will interest you. Not a magic formula -- not a get-rich-quick scheme -- but something more substantial, more practical. Of course, you need something more than just the desire to be an accountant. You've got to pay Still, wouldn't it be worth your while to sacrifice some of your leisure in favor of interesting home study -- over a comparatively brief period? Always provided that the rewards were good -- a salary of # to #? An accountant's duties are interesting, varied and of real worth to his employers. He ha s standing! Do you feel that such things aren't for you? Well, don't be too sure. Very possibly they can be! Why not, like so many before you, investigate LaSalle's modern Problem Method of training for an accountancy, position? Just suppose you were permitted to work in a large accounting house under the personal supervision of an expert accountant. Suppose, with his aid. you studied accounting principles and solved problems day by day -- easy ones at first -- then more difficult ones. If you could do this -- and could turn to him for advice as the problems became complex -- soon you'd master them all. That's the training you follow in principle under the LaSalle Problem Method. You cover accountancy from the basic Principles right up through Accountancy Systems and Income Tax Procedure. Then you add C. P. A. Training and psepare for the C. P. A. examinations. As you go along, you absorb the principles of Auditing, Cost Accounting, Business Law, Statistical Control, Organization, Management and Finance. Your progress is as speedy as you care to make it -- depending on your own eagerness to learn and the time you spend in study. Will recognition come? The only answer, as you know, is that success dm come to the man who is really trained. It's possible your employers will notice your improvement in a very few weeks or months. Indeed, many LaSalle graduates have paid for their training -- with increased earnings -- before they have completed it! For accountants, who are trained in organization and management, are the executives of the future. Send For Free Sample Lesson For your own good, get all the facts. Write for our free #-page book, "Accountancy, The Profession That Pays" -- also the free sample lesson so you can prove to yourself that you can master accountancy quickly, thoroly in spare time at home. Over # Certified Public Accountant! among LaSalle alumni A Correspondence Institution Send me without obligation. Free Sample Lesson and "Accountancy, The Profession That Pays." Name Age Address G#, Zone  State be generally told -- things you ought to know. Great truths are dangerous to some -- but factors for personal power and accomplishment in the hands of those who understand them. Behind the tales of the miracles and mysteries of the ancients, lie centuries of their secret probing into nature's laws -- their amazing discoveries of the hid den processes of man's mind, and the mastery of life's problems. Once shrouded in mystery to avoid their destruction by mass fear and ignorance, these facts remain a useful heritage for the thousands of men and women who privately use them in their homes today. The Rosicrucians (not a religious organization) an age-old brotherhood of learning, have preserved this secret wisdom in their archives for centuries. They now invite you to share the practical helpfulness of their teachings. Write today for a free copy of the book, "The Mastery of Life." Within its pages may lie a new life of opportunity for you. Address: Scribe K.GJ#. l Scribe K.G.S. I I San Jose, California I i Please send me the f ree book, The Mastery  l of Life, which explains how I may learn to I l use my faculties and powers of mind. I  Name I i Address , i City I constitutes the ultimate in government or in a civilization. If it is Utopia -- which is a dream or it wouldn't be called Utopia -- in which direction is the logical approach? Better, let's say in which direction does the best "experimental approach" lie? For there is no logical approach to a dream, as logic goes. One of the "experimental" avenues is suggested by some of the science fiction stories which come into this office... and that is selective breeding. Some of these are rather convincing: If selective breeding with cattle or chickens or race horses or pigs or vegetables or something is so successful, why can't it be so with human beings? Right off the bat, selective breeding of human beings, as a predication for producing mentally superior people, is impossible. And even if it wasn't impossible, it wouldn't make a nation or a civilization. Biologically speaking, when you select a special male and a special female for breeding purposes, there you are going to get offspring exactly like either one, or a combination of the two. Physical characteristics might well be similar, but getting one hundred per cent duplication of talent, aptitude or personality is as remote as that of planets in different galaxies colliding. There are # chromosomes which determine the characteristics of the offspring, # contributed by the male, # by the female, and each chromosome contains # genes. These # genes are mixed up like balls in a huge lottery drum. Now take your pick, as you would a hand of bridge -- and see how many different combinations there Come to think of it, race horses are selectively bred and they have the brains of a mouse... and the champion does not always sire champions. Anyway, genius and brains are not hereditary. Some of the best brains have been known to produce morons. Besides, fine minds and genius are rather delicate mechanisms; they break faster and more easily, unable to stand the stress and strain. Nor does the mating of low mentality necessarily produce low mentality. Some of the finest minds in history have sprung from mediocre parentage. Mating mathematicians or engineers or doctors doesn't mean you're going to get a doctor or an engineer or a mathematician anymore than if you mated a deep sea diver and a female lion tamer. When selectivity has been tried on social lines -- and the practise of royalty is a prime example -- inbreeding is the most outstanding result, with some rather startling and undesirable traits becoming dominant. Consider for a moment the deranged monarchs who have at one time or another ruled almost every nation in Europe or Asia. It was the new blood of the lusty "lower class" women who bore illegitimate heirs to the various thrones which was often responsible for rejuvenating the royal lineage when it tottered on the brink of idiocy. But for argument's sake, assume that selective breeding would work and you could produce that particular talent which the state of the nation seemed to require. Would that pump the right kind of blood into the national veins? Hardly. It takes more than selective breeding alone. There is a matter of environmental control, and of education of the selectivity bred, which would have to be a rigidly controlled routine to breed out individual enterprise, in order that such control could be maintained. Yet, the prime characteristic of the talented individual or the genius is individuality. Becomes rather a vicious circle, doesn't it? The United States, which is just about the only first rate power left in the world today, grew to such stature in the shortest time that a nation has ever attained world supremacy -- because it was anything but selectively bred. It was built by scholars, dreamers, business men, crusaders, soldiers of fortune, gamblers, whores, murderers and thieves. It was built by men with some of the best brains in the world and men with some of the worst brains in the world. And there wasn't an American in the bunch, not at first; they were Greeks, Germans, Irish, French, English, Italians, Dutch, Japanese, Chinese, Spaniards and every other nationality in the world. The real reason this crazy pattern of humanity molded itself into a nation was that it had an incentive, and the chance to be rugged individualists if they so desired. Admittedly each man or woman had his own incentive. Personal gain, power, freedom from religious or economic restrictions, freedom from national domination,... and the golden opportunity to search for, and find it in a fresh new world. They built and lived according to their lights. And gave others the right and opportunity to do the same. They murdered the Indians and were murdered in return ; they killed and robbed each other; fortunes and great industries changed hands in a card game or exploded from the muzzle of a gun. Human nature may not always be good, but it's tough as rawhide, and death and hardship were no obstacle to this conglomeration of humanity when there was an incentive. So if history is to be a precedent, selective breeding isn't too promising an approach to a Utopian government or state of civilization. Maybe there is one, however. Maybe it's the right incentive. Maybe that incentive is the free right of every human being to search for his or her own idea of Utopia -- the pursuit of a dream that could some day result in the realization of at least a near-ideal. -- jlq -- Illustrated by Ed Emsh The Niroi permitted refugees from Earth to live in their cramped little ghetto conditionally: that they do so peacefully. But there will always be patriotic fanatics, like Harkway and Rack, who must disturb the peace... before. Now, from the window of Laszlo Cudyk's garret, he could see how the alien city shone frostblue against the black sky; the tall hive-shapes that no man would have built, glowing with their own light. Nearer, the slender drunken shafts of lamp posts marched toward him down the street, each with its prosaic yellow globe. Between them and all around, the darkness had gathered; darkness in angular shapes, the geometry of squalor. Cudyk liked this view, for at night the blackness of the Earth Quarter seemed to merge with the black sky, as if one were a minor extension of the other -- a fist of space held down to the surface of the planet. He could feel, then, that he was not alone, not isolated and forgotten; that some connection still existed across all the light-years of the galaxy between him and what he had lost. And, again, the view depressed him; for at night the City seemed to press in upon the Quarter like the walls of a prison. The Quarter: sixteen square blocks, about the size of those of an Earth city, two thousand three hundred human beings of three races, four religions, eighteen nationalities; the only remnant of the human race nearer than Capella. Cudyk felt the night breeze freshening. He glanced upward once at the frosty blaze of stars, then pulled his head back inside the window. He closed the shutters, turning to the lamp-lit table with its hopeless clutter of books, pipes and dusty miscellany. Cudyk was a man of middle height, heavy in the shoulders and chest, blunt-featured, with a shock of greying black hair. He was fiftyfive years old; he remembered Earth. A drunk stumbled by in the street below, cursing monotonously to himself, paused to spit explosively into the gutter, and faded into the night. Gudyk heard him without attention. He stood with his back to the window, looking at nothing, his square fingers fumbling automatically for pipe and tobacco. Why do I torture myself with that look out the window every night? he asked himself. It's a juvenile sentimentalism. But he knew he would go on doing it. Other noises drifted tip to his window, faint with distance. They grew louder. Cudyk cocked his head suddenly, turned and threw open the shutters again. That had been a scream. He could see nothing down the street; the trouble must be farther over, he thought, on Kwang-Chowfu or Washington. The noise swelled as he listened: the unintelligible wailing of a mob. Footsteps clicked hurriedly up the stairs. Gudyk went to the door, made sure it was latched, and waited. There was a light tapping on the door. "Who is it?" he said. "Lee Far " He unlatched the door and opened it. The little Chinese blinked at him, his upper lip drawn up over incisors like a rodent's. "Mr. Seu say please, you come." Without waiting for an answer, he turned and rapped his way down into darkness. Cudyk picked up a jacket from a wall hook, and paused for a moment to glance at the locked drawer in which he kept an ancient .# automatic and two full clips. He shook his head impatiently and went out. Lee was waiting for him downstairs. When he saw Gudyk open the outer door, he set off down the street at a dog-trot. Gudyk caught up with him at the corner of Athenai and Brasil. They turned right for two blocks to Washington, then left again. A block away, at Rossiya and Washington, there was a small crowd of men struggling in the middle of the street. They didn't seem to be very active ; as Cudyk and Lee approached, they saw that only a few were still fighting, and those without a great deal of spirit. The rest were moving aimlessly, some wiping their eyes, others bent almost double in paroxysms of sneezing. A few were motionless on the pavement. Three slender Chinese were moving through the crowd. Each had a white surgeon's mask tied over his nose and mouth, and carried a plastic bag full of some dark substance, from which he took handfuls and flung them with a motion like a sower's. Cudyk could see now that the air around them was heavy with floating particles. As he watched, the last two fighters in the crowd each took a halfhearted swing at the other and then, coughing and sneezing, moved away in separate directions. Lee took his sleeve for a moment. "Here, Mr. Cudyk." Seu was standing in the doorway of Town Hall, his round-bellied Cudyk with a lazy, humorous gesture of one fat hand. "Hello, Min," Cudyk said. "You're efficient, as always. Pepper again?" "Yes," said Mayor Seu Min. "I hate to waste it, but I don't think the water buckets would have been enough this time. This could have been a bad one." "How did it start?" "A couple of Russkies caught Jim Loong sneaking into Madame May's," the fat man said laconically. His shrewd eyes twinkled. "I'm glad you came down, Laszlo. I want you to meet an important visitor who arrived on the Kt-I'ith ship this afternoon." He turned slightly, and Cudyk saw that there was a man behind him in the doorway. "Mr. Harkway, may I present Mr. Laszlo Cudyk, one of our leading citizens? Mr. Cudyk, James Harkway, who is here on a mission from the Minority People's League." Cudyk shook hands with the man, who had a pale, scholarly face, not bad-looking, with dark intense eyes. He was young, about thirty. Cudyk automatically classified him as second generation. "Perhaps," said Seu, as if the notion had just occurred to him, "you would not mind taking over my duties as host for a short time, Laszlo? If Mr. Harkway would not object? This regrettable occurrence -- " "Of course," Cudyk said. Harkway nodded and smiled. "Excellent." Seu edged past Cudyk, then turned and put a hand on his friend's arm, drawing him closer. "Take care of this fool," he said under his breath, "and for God's sake keep him away from the saloons. Rack is in town, too. I've got to make sure they don't meet." He smiled cheerfully at both of them and walked away. Lee Far, appearing from somewhere, trailed after him. A young Chinese, with blood streaming brightly from a gash in his cheek, was stumbling past. Cudyk stepped away from the doorway, turned him around and pointed him down the street, to where Seu's young men were laying out the victims on the sidewalk and administering first aid. Cudyk went back to Harkway. "I suppose Seu has found you a place to stay," he said. "Yes," said Harkway. "He's putting me up in his home. Perhaps I'd better go there now -- I don't want to be in the way." "You won't be in the way," Cudyk told him. "What would you like to do?" "Well, I'd like to meet a few people, if it isn't too late. Perhaps we could have a drink somewhere, where people meet -- ?" He glanced interrogatively down the street to an illuminated sign that announced uors." "Not there," said Cudyk. "That's Russky headquarters, and I'm afraid they may be a little shorttempered right now. The best place would be Chong Yin's tea room, I think. That's just two blocks up, near Washington and Ceskoslovensko." "All right," said Harkway. He was still looking down the street. "Who is that girl?" he asked abruptly. Cudyk glanced that way. The two M. D.'s, Moskowitz and Estrada, were on the scene, sorting out the most serious cases to be carted off to hospital, and so was a slender, dark-haired girl in nurse's uniform. "That's Kathy Burgess," he said. "I'd introduce you, but now isn't the time. You'll probably meet her tomorrow." "She's very pretty," said Harkway, and suffered himself to be led off up the street. "Married?" "No. She was engaged to one of our young men, but her father broke it off." "Oh?" said Harkway. After a moment: "Political differences?" "Yes. The young man joined the activists. The father is a conservative." "That's very interesting," said Harkway. After a moment he asked, "Do you have many of those here?" "Activists or conservatives? Or pretty girls?" "I meant conservatives," said Harkway, coloring slightly. "I know the activist movement is strong here -- that's why I was sent. We consider them dangerous in the extreme." "So do I," said Cudyk. "No, there aren't many conservatives. Burgess is the only real fanatic. If you meet him, by the way, you must make certain allowances." Harkway nodded thoughtfully. "Cracked on the subject?" "You could put it that way," Cudyk told him. "He has convinced himself, in his conscious mind at least, that we are the dominant species on this planet; that the Niori are our social and economic inferiors. He won't tolerate any suggestion that it isn't so." Harkway nodded again, looking very solemn. "A tragedy," he said. "But understandable, of course. Some of the older people simply can't adjust to the reality of our position in the galaxy." "Not many people actually like it," said Cudyk. Harkway looked at him thoughtfully. He said, "Mr. Cudyk, I don't want you to take this as a complaint, but I've gathered the impression that you're not in sympathy with the Minority People's League." "No," said Cudyk. "May I ask what your political viewpoint is?" "I'm neutral," said Cudyk. "Apolitical." . Harkway said politely, "I hope you won't take offense if I ask why? It's evident, even to me, that you're a man of intelligence and ability." Everything is evident to you, Cudyk thought wearily, except what you don't want to see. He said, "I don't believe our particular Humpty Dumpty can be put back together again, Mr. Harkway." Harkway looked at him intently, but said nothing. He glanced at the signboard over the lighted windows they were approaching. "Is this the place?" "Yes." Harkway continued to look at the Chinese characters, was a legend that read: Nrn nm yxii aixjvvi "That's a curious alphabet," he said. "It's a very efficient one," Cudyk told him. "It's based on the design of an X in a rectangle -- like this." He traced it with his finger on the wall. "Counting each arm of the cross as one stroke, there are eight strokes in the figure. Using only two strokes to a letter, there are twenty-eight possible combinations. They use the sixteen most graceful ones, and add twenty-seven threestroke letters to bring it up to fortythree, one for each sound in their language. The written language is completely phonetic, therefore. But there are only eight keys on a Niori typewriter." He looked at Harkway. "It's also perfectly legible: no letter looks too much like any other letter. And it has a certain beauty, don't you think?" He paused. "Hasn't it struck you, Mr. Harkway, that anything our hosts do is likely to be a little more sensible and more sensitive than the human equivalent?" "I come from Reg Otay," said Harkway. "They don't have any visual arts or any written language there. But I see what you mean. What does the sign say -- the same thing as the English?" "No. It says, 'Yungiwo Ren Trakru Rith.' 'Trakru rith' is Niori for 'hospitality house' -- it's what they call anything that we would call tea room, or restaurant, or beer garden." "And 'Yungiwo Ren'?" "That's their version of 'Chung kuo jen' -- the Chinese for 'Chinese.' At first they called us all that, because most of the original immigrants were from China; but they've got over it now -- they found out some of us didn't like it." Cudyk opened the door. A few aliens were sitting at the round tables in the big outer room. Cudyk watched Harkway' s face, and saw his eyes widen with shock, the Niori were something to see, the first time. They were tall and erect, and their anatomy was not even remotely like man's. They had six limbs each, two for walking, four for manipulation. Their bodies were covered by a pale, horny integument which grew in irregular sections, so that you could tell the age of a Niori by the width of the growth-areas between the plates of his armor. But you saw none of those things at first. You saw the two glowing violet eyes, set wide apart in a helmet-shaped head, and the startlingly beautiful markings on the smooth shell of the face -- blue on pale cream, like an ancient porcelain tile. And you saw the crest -- a curved, lucent shape that even in a lighted room glowed with its own frost-blue. No Niori ever walked in darkness.  Pronounced "jung guo ren Gudyk guided Harkway toward the door at the far end of the room. "We'll see who's in the back room' he said. "There is usually a small gathering at this hour." The inner room was more brightly lit than the other. Down the center, in front of a row of empty booths, was a long table. Three men sat at one end of it, with teacups and a bowl of lichee nuts between them. They looked up as Cudyk and Harkway came in. "Gentlemen," said Cudyk, "may I present Mr. Harkway, who is here on a mission from the Minority People's League? Mr. Burgess, Father Exarkos, Mr. Ferguson." The three shook hands with Harkway, Father Exarkos smiling pleasantly, the other two with more guarded expressions. The priest was in his fifties, grey-haired, hollowtempled, with high orbital ridges and a square, mobile mouth. He said, in English oddly accented by a mixture of French and Greek, "Please sit down, both of you... I understand that your first evening here has been not too pleasant, Mr. Harkway. I hope the rest of your stay will be more so." Burgess snorted, not quite loudly enough to be deliberately rude. His face had a pleasant, even a handsome cast except for the expression of petulance he was now wearing. He was a few years younger than the priest: a big-boned, big-featured man whose slightly curved back and hollowed cheeks showed that he had lost bulk since his prime. Ferguson's pale face was expressive but completely controlled. The gambler's eyes were narrow and unreadable, the lips and the long muscles of the jaw showing nothing more than surface emotion. He asked politely, "Planning to stay long, Mr. Harkway?" "That all depends, Mr. Ferguson, on -- to be blunt, on what sort of a reception I get. I won't try to conceal from you the fact that my role here is that of a political propagandist. I want to convince as many people as I can that the Minority People's movement is the best hope of the human race. If I can find that there's some chance of succeeding, I'll stay as long as necessary. If not -- " "I'm afraid we won't be seeing much of you, in that case, Mr. Harkway," said Burgess. His tone was scrupulously correct, but his nostrils were quivering with repressed indignation. "What makes you say that, Mr. Burgess?" Harkway asked, turning his intent, serious gaze on the older man. "Your program, as I understand it," said Burgess, "aims at putting humanity on an equal basis with various assorted races of lizards, beetles and other vermin. I don't think you will find much sympathy for that program here, sir." "I'm glad to say that, through no fault of your own, you're mistaken," said Harkway, smiling slightly. "I think you're referring to the program of the right wing of the League, which was dominant for the last several years. It's true that for that period, the M.P.L.'s line was to work for the gradual integration of human beings -- and other repressed races -- into the society of the planets on which they live. But that's all done with now. The left wing, to which I belong, has won a decisive victory at the League elections. "Our program," Harkway continued earnestly, "rejects the doctrine of assimilation as a biological and cultural absurdity. What we propose to do, and with sufficient help will do, is to return humanity to its homeland -- to reconstitute Earth as an autonomous, civilized member of the galactic entity. We realize, of course, that this is a gigantic undertaking, and that much aid will be required from the other races of the galaxy... Were you about to say something, Mr. Burgess?" Burgess said bitterly, "What you mean, in plain words, Mr. Harkway, is that you think we all ought to go home -- dissolve Earth's galactic empire -- give it all back to the natives. I don't think you'll find much support for that , either." Harkway bit his lip, and cast a glance at Cudyk that seemed to say, You warned me, but I forgot. He turned to Ferguson, who was smiling around his cigar as blandly as if nothing out of the way had been said. "What is your view, Mr. Ferguson?" Ferguson waved his cigar amiably. "You'll have to count me out, Mr. Harkway. I'm doing okay as things are -- I have no reason to want any changes." Harkway turned to the little priest. "And you, Father Exarkos?" The Greek shrugged and smiled. "I wish you all the luck in the universe, sincerely," he said. "But I am afraid I believe that no material methods can rescue man from his dilemma." "If I've given any offense," said Burgess suddenly, "I can leave." Harkway stared at him for. a moment, gears almost visibly slipping in his head. Then he said, "Of course not, Mr. Burgess, please don't think that for a moment. I respect your views -- " Burgess looked around him with a wounded expression. "I know," he said with difficulty, "that I am in a minority -- here -- " Father Exarkos put a hand on his arm and murmured something. Harkway leaned forward impulsively across the table and said, "Mr. Burgess, I've traveled a long way in the hope of discussing these problems with men of intelligence and standing in their community, like yourself. I hope you'll stay and give me the benefit of your experience. I shall be very much the loser if you don't." Burgess was visibly struggling with his emotions. He stood up and said, "No -- no -- not tonight. I'm upset. Please excuse me." Head bowed, he walked out of the room. There was a short silence. "Did I do the wrong thing?" asked Harkway. "No, no," said Father Exarkos. "It was not your fault -- there was nothing you could do. You must excuse him. He is a good man, but he has suffered too much. Since his wife died -- of a disease contracted during one of the Famines, you understand -- he has not been himself." Harkway nodded, looking both older and more human than he had a moment before. "If we can only turn back the clock," he said. "Put Humpty Dumpty together again, as you expressed it, Mr. Cudyk." He smiled apologetically at them. "I won't harangue you any more tonight -- I'll save that for the meeting tomorrow. But I hope that some of you will come to see it my way." Father Exarkos' eyebrows lifted. "You are planning to hold a public meeting tomorrow?" "Yes. There's some difficulty about space -- Mayor Seu tells me that the town hall is already booked for the next three days -- but I'm confident that I can find some suitable place. If necessary, I'll make it an open-air meeting." Rack, thought Gudyk. Rack usually stays in town for only two or three days at a time. Seu is trying to keep Harkway under cover until he leaves. It won't work. Out of the comer of his eye he saw a dark shape in the doorway, and his first thought was that Burgess had come back. But it was not Burgess. It was a squat, bandylegged man with huge shoulders and arms, wearing a leather jacket and a limp military cap. Cudyk sat perfectly still, warning Exarkos with his eyes. The squat man walked casually up the table, nodding almost imperceptibly to Ferguson. He ignored the others, except the M.P.L. man. "Your name Harkway?" he asked. He pronounced it with the flat Boston "a": "Haakway". "That's right," said Harkway. "Got a message for you," said the squat man. "From Captain Lawrence Rack, United Uth Space Navy." "The Earth Space Navy was dissolved twenty years ago," said Harkway. The squat man sighed. "You wanna heah the message or don't you?" he asked. "Go ahead," said Harkway. His nostrils were pale, and a muscle stood out at the side of his jaw. "Heah it is. You're plannin' to hold a meetin' of the vehmin lovehs society, right?" As Harkway began to reply, the squat man leaned across the table and backhanded him across the mouth, knocking him sideways out of his chair. "Don't," said the squat man. He turned and strolled out. Gudyk and Ferguson helped Harkway up. The man's eyes were staring wildly out of his pale face, and a thin trickle of blood was running from a pulped lip. "Who was that man?" he asked in a whisper. "His name is Monk," said Cudyk. "At least that is the only name he has been known to answer to. He is one of Rack's lieutenants -- Rack, as you probably know, is the leader of the activists in this sector. Mr. Harkway, I'm sorry this happened. But I advise you to wait for a week or so before you hold your meeting. There is no question of courage involved. It would be suicide." Harkway looked at him blindly. "The meeting will be held as planned," he said, and walked out, stiff-legged. Ferguson shook his head, laughed, and shook his head again. Cudyk exchanged a hopeless glance with Father Exarkos, and then followed Harkway out of the room. for young Nick Pappageorge, dozing behind the long counter, and the pale morning sunlight that streamed through the plastic window. Most of the counter was in shadow, but stray fingers of light picked out gem trays here and there, turning them into minuscule Two Niori, walking arm in arm, paused in front of the window display, then went on. Two human youngsters raced by, shouting. Cudyk caught only a glimpse of them through the pierced screen that closed off the back of his shop, but he recognized them by their voices: Red Gorciak and Stan Eleftheris. There were few children now, and they were growing up wild. Cudyk wondered briefly what it must be like to be a child born into this microcosm, knowing no other. He dismissed the thought; it was simply one more thing about which there was no use to worry. Cudyk had not spoken to anyone that morning, but he knew approximately what was happening. Seu would have been busy most of the night, covering up the traces of last evening's riot. Now, probably, he was explaining it away to Zydh Oran, the Niori Outgroup Commissioner. Harkway was making preparations for his meeting -- another thing for Seu to worry about when he got through cleaning up the last mess. Barring miracles, today was going to be very bad. Seu came in, moving quickly. He walked directly to the rear of the shop. His normally bland face looked worried, and there were beads of sweat on his wide forehead, although the morning was cool. "Sit down," said Cudyk. "You've seen Zydh Oran?" Seu made a dismissing gesture. "Nothing. Not pleasant, but nothing. The same as usual -- he tells me what happened, I deny it. He knows, but under their laws he can't do anything." "Someday it will be bad," said Cudyk. "Yes. Someday. Laszlo -- you've got to do something about Harkway. Otherwise he's going to be killed tonight, and there will be a stink from here to Sirius. I had to tell him he could use Town Hall -- he was all ready to hold a torchlight meeting in the streets." "I tried," said Cudyk. "Try again. Please. Your ethnic background is closer to his than mine. He respects you, I think. Perhaps he's even read some of your books. If anyone can persuade him, you can." "What did he say when you talked to him?" "An ox. A brain made of soap and granite. He says it is a matter of principle. I knew then that I could do nothing. When an AngloSaxon talks about his principles, you may as well go home. He won't accept a weapon, he won't postpone the meeting. I think he wants to be a martyr." Cudyk frowned. "Maybe he does. Have you seen Rack?" "No. Ferguson pretends not to know where he is." "That's rather odd. What is his motive, do you think?" Seu said, "Basically, he is afraid of Rack. He cooperates with him -- they use each other -- but you know that it's not a marriage of minds. He knows that Rack is stronger than he is, because he is only an amoral egotist, and Rack is a fanatic. I think he believes this business may be Rack's downfall, and he would like that." He stood up. "I have to go. Will you do it?" "Yes." "Good. Let me know." Seu walked out, as hastily as he had entered. Nick Pappageorge had roused himself and was polishing a tall, fluted silver vase. Cudyk said, "Nick, go and find out where Mr. Harkway is. If he isn't busy, ask him if he'll do me the favor of dropping around to see me. Otherwise, just come back and tell me where he is; I'll go to him." Nick said, "Sure, Mr. Cudyk," and went out. Cudyk stared at the tray of unsorted gems on the desk before him. He stirred them with his forefinger, separating out an emerald, two aquamarines, a large turquoise and a star sapphire. That was all he had had to begin with -- his dead wife's jewels, carried half across Europe when a loaf of bread was worth more than all the gem stones in the world. The sapphire had bought his passage on the alien ship ; the others had been his original stock-intrade, first at the refugee center on Alfhal, then here on Palumbar. Now he was a prosperous importer, with a business that netted him the equivalent of ten thousand pounds a year. But the wealth was ashes; he would have traded all of it for one loaf of bread, eaten in peace, on an Earth that had not sunk back to barbarism. Momentum, he told himself. Momentum, and a remnant of curiosity. Those are the only reasons I can think of why I do not blow out my brains. I wonder what keeps the others from it? Seu? Chong Yin? I don't know. Burgess has his fantasy, though it cracks now and then. Ferguson has the sensibility of a jackal. Rack, as Seu said, is a fanatic. But why do the rest of them keep on? For what? The doorway darkened again as Harkway came in, followed by Nick. Nick gestured toward the rear of the shop, and Harkway advanced, smiling. His lower lip was stained by a purple substance with a glossy surface. Cudyk greeted him and offered him a chair. "It was good of you to come over," he said. "I hope I didn't interrupt your work." Harkway grinned stiffly. "No. I was just finishing lunch when your boy found me. I have nothing more to do until this evening." Cudyk looked at him. "You got to the hospital after all, I see." "Yes. Dr. Moskowitz fixed me up nicely." Cudyk had been asking himself why the M.P.L. man looked so cheerful. Now he thought he understood. "And Miss Burgess?" he asked. "Yes," said Harkway, looking embarrassed. He paused. "She's -- an exquisite person, Mr. Cudyk." Cudyk clasped his square hands together, elbows on the arms of his chair. He said, "Forgive me, I'm going to be personal. Am I right in saying that you now feel more than casually interested in Miss Burgess?" He added, "Please. I have a reason for asking." Harkway's expression was guarded. "Yes; that's true." "Do you think she may feel similarly towards you?" Harkway paused. "I think so. I hope so. Why, Mr. Cudyk?" "Mr. Harkway, I will be very blunt. Miss Burgess has already lost one lover through no fault of her own, and the experience has not been good for her. She is, as you say, exquisite -- she has a beautiful, but not a strong personality. Do you think it is fair for you to give her another such experience, even if the attachment is not fully formed, by allowing yourself to be killed this evening?" Harkway leaned back in his chair. "Oh," he said, "that's it." He grinned. "I thought you were going to point out that her father broke off the last affair because of the man's politics. If you had, I was going to tell you that Mr. Burgess looked me up this morning and apologized for his attitude yesterday, and breaking down and so on. He's very decent, you know. We're getting along very well." He paused. "About this other matter," he said seriously, "I'm grateful for your interest, but -- I'm afraid I can't concede the validity of your argument." He made an impatient gesture. "I'm not trying to sound noble, but this business is more important than my personal life. That's all, I'm afraid. I'm sorry." Another fanatic, Cudyk thought. A liberal fanatic. I have seen all kinds, now. He said, "I have one more argument to try. Has Seu explained to you how precarious our position is here on Palumbar?" "He spoke of it." "The Niori accepted this one small colony with grave misgivings. Every act of violence that occurs here weakens our position, because it furnishes ammunition for a group which already wants to expel us. Do you understand?" There was pain in Harkway' s eyes. "Mr. Cudyk, it's the same all over the galaxy, wherever these pitifully tiny outgroups exist. My group is trying to attack that problem on a galaxy-wide scale. I don't say we'll succeed, and I grant you the right to doubt that our program is the right one. But we've got to try. Among other things, we've got to clean out the activists, for just the reason you mention. And -- pardon me for stressing the obvious -- but it's Captain Rack who will be responsible for this particular act of violence if it occurs, not myself." "And you think that your death at his hands would be a stronger argument than a peaceful meeting, is that it?" Harkway shook his head ruefully. "I don't know that I have that much courage, Mr. Cudyk. I'm hoping that nothing will happen to me. But I know that the League's prestige here would be enormously hurt if I let Rack bluff me down." He stood up. "You'll be at the meeting?" "I'm afraid so." Cudyk stood and offered his hand. "The best of luck." He watched the young man go, feeling very old and tired. He had known it would be this way; he had only tried for Seu's sake. Now he was involved; he had allowed himself to feel the tug of love and pity toward still another lost soul. Such bonds were destructive -- they turned the heart brittle and weathered it away, bit by bit. The assembly hall was well filled, although Harkway had made no special effort to advertise the meeting. He had known, Cudyk thought, that Rack's threat would be more than sufficient. The youngster was not stupid. There were no women or children. Ferguson was there, and a large contingent of his employees -- gamblers, pimps, waiters and strong-arm men -- as well as most of the Russian population. All but a few of the Chinese had stayed away, as had Burgess. But a number of men whom Cudyk knew to have M.P.L. leanings, and an even larger number of neutrals, were there. The audience was about evenly divided, for and against Harkway. If he somehow came through this alive, it was just possible that he could swing the Quarter his way. A futile victory; but of course Harkway did not believe that. There was a murmur and a shuffle of feet as Rack entered with three other men -- Monk, the one called Spider, and young Tom De Grasse, who had once been engaged to Kathy Burgess. The sound dropped almost to stillness for a few moments after the four men took seats at the side of the hall, then rose again to a steady rumble. Harkway and Seu had not yet appeared. Cudyk saw the man to his right getting up, moving away ; he turned in time to see Seu wedge himself through a gap in the line of chairs and sit down in the vacated place. The fat man's face was blandly expressionless, but Cudyk knew that something had happened. "What is it?" he asked. Seu's lips barely moved. He looked past Cudyk, inspecting die crowd with polite interest. "I had him kidnapped," he said happily. "He's tied up, in a safe place. There won't be any meeting today." Seu had been seen. Someone a few rows ahead called, "Where's Harkway, Mayor?" "I don't know," Seu said blandly. "He told me he would meet me here -- said he had an errand to do. Probably he's on his way now." Under cover of the ensuing murmur, he turned to Cudyk again. "I didn't want to do it," he said. "It will mean trouble, sooner or later; maybe almost as much trouble as if Harkway had been killed. But I had to make a choice. Do you think I did the right thing, Laszlo?" "Yes," said Cudyk, "except that I wish you had told me earlier." Seu smiled, his heavy face becoming for that instant open and confiding. "If I had, you wouldn't have been so sincere when you talked to Harkway." Cudyk smiled in spite of himself. He relaxed in his chair, savoring the relief that had come when he'd learned that Harkway was not going to die. The tension built up, day by day, almost imperceptibly, and it was a rare, fleeting pleasure when something happened to lower it. He saw the mayor looking at his watch. The crowd was growing restless: in a few more minutes Seu would get up and announce that the meeting was cancelled. Then it would be all over. Seu was rising when a new wave of sound traveled over the audience. Out of the comer of his eye Cudyk saw men turning, standing up to see over the heads of their neighbors. Seu spoke a single, sharp word, and his hand tightened on the back of his chair. Gudyk stood. Someone was coming down the center aisle of the room, but he couldn't see who it was. Those who had stood earlier were sitting down now. Down the aisle, looking straight ahead, with a bruised jaw and a bloody scratch running from cheekbone to chin, came James Harkway. He mounted the platform, rested both hands on the low speaker's stand, and turned his glance across the audience, once, from side to side. There was a collective scraping of chairs and clearing of throats, then complete stillness. Harkway said: "My friends -- and enemies." Subdued laughter rippled across the room. "A few of my enemies didn't want me to hold this meeting," said Harkway. "Some of my friends felt the same way. In fact, it seemed that nobody wanted this meeting to take place. But here you all are, just the same. And here I am." He straightened. "Why is that, I wonder? Perhaps because regardless of our differences, we're all in the same boat -- in a lifeboat." He nodded gravely. "Yes, we're all in a lifeboat -- all of us together, to live or die, and we don't know which way to turn for the nearest land that will give us harbor. "Which way shall we turn to find a safe landing? To find peace and honor for ourselves and our children? To find safety, to find happiness?" He spread his arms. "There are a There are all the planets in the galaxy! But everywhere we turn, we find alien soil, alien cultures, alien people. Everywhere except in one direction only. "Our ship -- our own planet, Earth -- is foundering, is sinking, that's true. But it hasn't -- yet -- sunk. There's still a chance that we can turn back, make Earth what it was, and then, from there -- go on! Go on, until we've made a greater Earth, a stronger, happier, more peaceful Earth -- till we can take our place with pride in the galaxy, and hold up our heads with any other race that lives." He had captured only half their attention, and he knew it. They were watching him, listening to what he said, but the heads of the audience were turned slightly, like the heads of plants under a solar tropism, toward the side of the chamber where Rack and his men sat. Harkway said, "We all know that the Earth's technical civilization is smashed -- broken like an eggshell. By ourselves, we could never put it back together. And if we do nothing, no one else is going to put it back together for us. But suppose we went to the other races in the galaxy, and said -- " A baritone voice broke in quietly, "'We'll sell our souls to you, if you'll kindly give us a few machines!' " Rack stood up -- tall, muscular, lean, with deep hollows under his cheekbones, red-grey hair falling over his forehead under the visor of his cap. His short leather jacket was thrown over his shoulders like a cloak. His narrow features were grey and cold, the mouth a straight, hard line. He said, "That's what you want us to tell the vermin, isn't it, Mr. Harkway?" Harkway seemed to settle himself like a boxer. He said clearly, "The intelligent races of the galaxy are not devils and do not want our souls, Mr. Rack." Rack ignored the "Mr." He said, "But they'd want certain assurances from us, in return for their help, wouldn't they, Mr. Harkway?" "Certainly," said Harkway. "Assurances that no sane man would refuse them. Assurances, for example, that there would be no repetition of the Altair Incident -- when a handful of maniacs in two ships murdered thousands of peaceful galactic citizens without the slightest provocation. Perhaps you remember that, Mr. Rack; perhaps you were there." "I was there," said Rack casually. "About five hundred thousand vermin were squashed. We would have done a better job, but we ran out of supplies. Some day we'll exterminate them all, and then there'll be a universe fit for men to live in. Meanwhile -- " he glanced at the audience -- "we're going to build. We're building now. Not with the vermin's permission, under the vermin's eye. In secret. On a planet they'll never find until our ships spurt out from it like milt from a fish. And when that day comes, we'll squash them down to the last tentacle and the last claw." "Are you finished?" asked Harkway. He was quivering with controlled rage. "Yes, I'm finished," said Rack wearily. "So are you. You're a traitor, Harkway, the most miserable kind of a crawling, dirt-eating traitor the human race ever produced. Get down off the platform." Harkway said to the audience, "I came here to try to persuade you to my way of thinking -- to ask you to consider the arguments and decide for yourselves. This man wants to settle the question by prejudice and force. Which of us is best entitled to the name 'human?' If you listen to him, can you blame the Niori if they decide to end even this tiny foothold they've given you on their planet? Would you live in a universe drenched with blood?" Rack said quietly, "Monk." The squat man stood up, smiling. He took a clasp knife out of his pocket, opened it, and started up the side of the room. In the dead stillness, another voice said, "No!" It was, Cudyk saw with shock, Tom De Grasse. The youngster was up, moving past Rack -- who made no move to stop him, did not even change expression -- past the squat man, turning a yard beyond, almost at the front of the room. His square, almost childish face was tight with strain. There was a pistol in one big hand. Cudyk felt something awaken in him which blossomed only at moments like this, when one of his fellow men did something particularly puzzling: the root, slain but still quasi-living, of the thing that had once been his central drive and his trademark in the world -- his insatiable, probing, warmly intelligent curiosity about the motives of men. On the surface, this action of De Grasse's was baldly impossible. He was committed to Rack's cause twice over, by conviction and by the shearing away of every other tie; and still more important, he worshipped Rack himself with the devotion that only fanatics can inspire. It was as if Peter had defied Christ. The three men stood motionless for what seemed a long time. Monk, halted with his weight on one foot, faced De Grasse with his knife hand slightly extended, thumb on the blade. He was visibly tense, waiting for a word from Rack. But Rack stood as if he had forgotten time and space, staring bemused over Monk's shoulder at De Grasse. The fourth man, Spider -- bones and gristle, with a corpse-growth of grey-white hair -- stood up slowly. Rack put a hand on his shoulder and pressed him down again. Cudyk thought: Kathy Burgess. It was the only answer. De Grasse knew, of course, everything that had passed between Harkway and the girl. There was no privacy worth mentioning in the Quarter. Pressed in this narrow ghetto, every man swam in the effluvium of every other man's emotions. And De give up everything that mattered to him, to save Kathy Burgess pain. It said something for the breed, Cudyk thought -- not enough, never enough, for you saw it only in pinpoint flashes, the noble individual who was a part of the bestial mob -- but a light in the darkness, nevertheless. Finally Rack spoke. "You, Tom?" The youngster's eyes showed sudden pain. But he said, "I mean it, Captain." There was a slow movement out from that side of the room, men inching away, crowding against their neighbors. Rack was still looking past Monk's shoulder, into De Grasse's face. He said : "All right." He turned, still wearing the same frozen expression, and walked down the side of the room, toward the exit. Monk threw a glance of pure incredulity over his shoulder, glanced back at De Grasse, and then followed. Spider scrambled after. De Grasse relaxed slowly, as if by conscious effort. He put away his gun, hesitated a moment, and walked slowly out after the others. His wide shoulders were slumped. Then there was the scraping of chairs and boot-soles and a rising bee-hive hum as the audience stood up and began to move out. Harkway made no effort to call them back. Cudyk, moving toward the exit with the rest, had much to think about. He had seen not only De Grasse's will, but Rack's, part against the knife of human sympathy. And that was a thing he had never expected to see. "Times like this," said Ferguson, narrowing his grey snake's eyes in a smile, "I almost believe in God." Father Exarkos smiled courteously and said nothing. He and Cudyk had been sitting in the back room of Chong Yin's since a half-hour after the meeting. Seu had been with them earlier, but had left. A little after twelve, Ferguson had strolled in and joined them. "I mean it," said Ferguson, laughing a little. There was Harkway, sticking his neck out, and there was little De Grasse standing in the way. And Rack backed down." He shook his head, still smiling. "Rack backed down. Now how would you explain that, gentlemen?" It was necessary to put up with the gambler, who wielded more power in the Quarter than anyone else, even Seu ; but sometimes Cudyk found himself dropping his usual attitude of detached interest in favor of speculations about the specific variety of horrible fate which Ferguson would most probably meet. He was particularly irritating tonight, because Cudyk was forced to agree with him. Cudyk had still not solved the riddle of Rack's failure to finish what he had started. It was conceivable that De Grasse should have acted as he did for reasons of sentiment; but to apply the same motive to Rack was simply not possible. The man had emotions, certainly, but they were all channeled into one direction: the destiny of the human race and of Lawrence Rack. De Grasse was at an age when the strongest emotions were volatile, when conversions were made, when a man could plan an assassination one day and enter a monastery the next. But Rack was fixed and aimed, like a cannon. Ferguson was saying, "He must be going soft. Going soft -- old Rack. Unless it's the hand of God. What's your opinion, Father?" The priest said blandly, "Mr. Ferguson, since I have come to live upon this planet, my opinions have changed about many things. I no longer believe that either God, or man, is quite so simple as I once thought. We were too small in our thoughts, before -- our understanding of temporal things was bounded by the frontiers of Earth, and of eternal things by the little sky we could see from our windows. "Before, I think I would have tried to answer your question. I would have said that I think Captain Rack was moved by -- a sudden access of human feeling -- or I would have said that I think Captain Rack was touched by the finger of God. Perhaps I would have hesitated to say that, because even then I did not believe that God interferes with the small sins of men like Captain Rack. Or the small sins of anybody, for that matter." Ferguson grinned. "Well, Father, that's the best excuse for an answer I ever heard, anyway." He dragged on his cigar, narrowing his eyes and pursing his lips, as if the cigar were a tube through which his brains were being sucked. "In other words," he said, "you don't think the big blowup back home was a judgment on us for our sins. You think it was a good thing, only more people 'should have got out the way we did. That right?" "Oh, no," said Father Exarkos. "I believe that the Famines and the Collapse were a judgment of God. I have heard many theories about the causes of the Collapse, but I have not heard one which does not come back, in the end, to a condemnation of man's folly, cruelty, and blindness." "Well," said Ferguson, "excuse me. Father, but if you believe that way, what are you doing here? Back there -- " he jerked his head, as if Earth were some little distance behind his right shoulder -- "people are living like animals. Chicago, where I come from, is just a stone jungle, with a few beast-like scavengers prowling around in it. If the dirt and disease don't get you, some bandit will split your head open, or you'll run into a wolf or some other hungry animal. If none of those things happen, you can expect to live to the ripe old age of forty, and then you'll be glad to die." He had stopped smiling. Ferguson, Cudyk realized, was describing his own personal hell. He went on, "Now, if you want to call that a judgment, I won't argue with you. But if that's what you believe, why aren't you back there taking it with the rest of them?" He really wanted to know, Cudyk thought. He had begun by trying to bait the priest, but now he was serious. It was odd to think of Ferguson having trouble with his conscience, but Cudyk was not really surprised. The most moralistic men he had ever known had been gangsters of Ferguson's type; whereas the few really good men he had known, Father Exarkos among them, had seemed as blithely unaware of their consciences as of their healthy livers. The priest said, soberly, "Mr. Ferguson, I believe that we also are being punished. Perhaps we more than others. The Mexican peon, the Indian fellah, the peasant of China or Greece, lives very much as his father did before him; he scarcely has reason to know that judgment has fallen upon Earth. But I think that no inhabitant of the Quarter can forget it for so much as an hour." Ferguson stared at him, then grunted and squashed out his cigar. He stood up. "I'll be getting along home," he said. "Good night." He walked out. Gudyk and Exarkos sat for a while longer, talking quietly, and then left together. The streets were empty. Behind them and to their left as they walked to the comer, the ghostly blue of the Niori beehives shone above the dark human buildings. The priest lived in a small secondfloor apartment near the comer of Brasil and Athenai, alone since his wife had died ten years before. Cudyk had only to go straight across Ceskoslovensko, but he walked down toward Brasil with his friend. Near the comer, Cudyk saw a dark form sprawled in a doorway. "One of your congregation, Astereos?" he asked. "It is probable," said the priest resignedly. "Steve Chrisudis has been drinking heavily again this past week; also the two Moulios brothers." He stepped over and turned the man's face up to the light. The face was bloody and broken, the eyes sightless. It was Harkway. He had been dead long enough to grow cold. kept coming back to Cudyk. "Would you live in a universe drenched with blood?" Rack would, of course ; for others there was a tragic dilemma. For them, the race had come to the end of a road that had its beginning in prehistory. Every step of progress on that way had been accomplished by bloodshed, and yet the goal had always been, a world at peace. It had been possible to live with the paradox when the road still seemed endless: before the first Earth starships discovered that humanity was not alone in the universe. Human beings were like a fragile crystalline structure, enduring until the first touch of air; or like a cyst that withers when it is cut open. The winds of the universe blew around them now, and there was no way to escape from their own nature. The way forward was the way back; the way back was the way forward. There was no peace except the peace of surrender and death. There was no victory except the victory of chaos. As the priest had remarked, there were many theories about the Collapse. It was said that the economy of Earth had been wrecked by interstellar imports; it was said that the rusts and blights that had devastated Earth's fields were of alien origin ; it was said that the disbanding of the Space Navy, after the Altair Incident, had broken Earth's spirit. It was said that the emigrations, both before and after the Famines, had bled away too much of the trained manpower that was Earth's life-blood. 