For them Firth's world will always stand as a symbol of man's highest achievement in co-operation . May this sham , in some small way , expiate the crime and the folly of my arrogant delusion . John Firth's head dropped on his arm and his shoulders shook; but the sobs were sobs of relief. Chris was saved; Chris would go back. That mattered very much -- for Chris was his grandson.    If current experiments prove successful, pilots of the future may be talking with their ears as well as hearing through them. Based on the fact that the ear is a human two-way radio the researchers have succeeded in getting intelligible speech from the ears of several persons involved in the tests. They are quite certain that further studies and experiments will point the way to further improvement of the technique; and that in the future people will be able to be taught how to use the Eustachian tubes or the bones of the head as a sounding board for emitting speech as well as hearing it. The daily round of the morning milk man may soon be a thing of the past. Researchers at Iowa State College have developed a frozen concentrated milk which the housewife may use in the same way she now uses frozen orange juice. The product is a whole milk product tasting exactly like regular bottled milk and with the same food values. A quart of the concentrate can be expanded to three quarts of regular milk by the addition of two quarts of water and stirring. Cans may be kept in the home refrigerator for two weeks without danger of spoilage and may be stored more than five months in freezer lockers at temperatures between # to # degrees below zero Fahrenheit. The walls of your house of the future may be built of plastic foam which can be "foamed" into place rather than hammered or nailed, or laid by a stone mason. Researchers at the Dow Chemical corporation are toying with a device resembling a garbage can that would be a plastic "concrete" mixer. It would generate foam and force it through a hose to a workman. Using only rudimentary forms to contain the plastic until set, the workman would build the wall up quickly. Experts would then focus the radiation from high-voltage Xray machines or radioactive cobalt # on the walls to raise its structural strength by cross-linking the plastic molecules. Spare parts surgery of the future may soon include the grafting of plugs of living tissue into the human heart itself. Researchers believe that incompetent heart valves might better be repaired by using tissue from elsewhere in the body. In experiments they have used a plug of tissues consisting mainly of blood vessels. They pass this through the left auricle of the heart, through the mitral opening and into the left ventricle where it is finally anchored by stitching it to the wall of this heart chamber. There it functions as a substitute mitral valve between the two left heart chambers. If the present tests prove successful, this new technique may soon be an accepted form of heart surgery. Rocket fuel may be used as a coolant to prevent rocket planes of the future from melting at high speeds. When projectiles reach a speed five or six times the speed of sound, such intense heat is generated that aluminum and steel melt; and researchers are experimenting with the fuel as an answer to the problem. They agree that such research on thermal barrier problems has been lagging far behind the capabilities of aircraft engineers, and hope that this present research will solve the problem. The only alternative so far seems to accept the fact that Book Service Phone GRamercy #-#  We Stock All current American Science Fiction in Book Form and carry current Magazines and Pocket Books.  A large selection of Science Fiction is available of British Books, Magazines and Pocket Editions.  We carry a large stock of Back Issues of Science Fiction Magazines.  planes will have to be partially rebuilt after each flight that lasts more than a few minutes. Dehydrofreezing may be a word to conjure with in the not too distant tomorrow. It is a name given to a new process which combines the space-saving of dehydration with the advantages of freezing. Ordinary freezing tends to rupture the cellular structure of foods. Partial dehydration does much to overcome the objection and dehydrofrozen foods retain the right amount of moisture. They can be reconstituted simply by soaking them in water. Scientists report that the process costs somewhat more, but lower packaging, freezing, storage and distribution costs should result in an over-all saving to users. Safety engineers predict that all automobiles will soon come equipped with safety belts similar to those used in airplanes. Several years of research have gone into the study of the perfect seat belt and several points have come up which will make for the maximum safety. The loop strength of the belt and buckle should be no less than # pounds, no less than two inches wide, only one person should use each belt, the belt must be anchored in a manner to transmit the full force of the belt's # pound strength to the frame of the car and the belt from attachment point to hips should cross the pelvic region at an angle of approximately # degrees. These minimum requirements have been strongly recommended as a means of substantially reducing the nation's huge traffic death and injury toll. A new wrinkle in the cultivation of the oceans for food has been proposed by researchers. Scientists have noted that there is a band # miles on each side of the equator which is almost perpetually calm and where the sun shines almost every day with a steady temperature of # degrees Fahrenheit the year round. The development of extreme high-strength plastic films has made possible floating plastic stills, created under Department of Interior sponsorship, that convert salt water to fresh. Fresh water from these stills is used to cultivate plants floating in canoelike plastic boats. One such floating garden is already in existence and flourishing mightily in the unusual surroundings. Job seekers may one day have to submit to aptitude tests that include a checking of their brain metabolism. Scientists have discovered that they can predict the behavior of rats by checking the chemical activities of the brain. In running through a test maze the animals responded as visualists (they followed light and dark alleys) or spatialists (who run to the right or the left orientation of the alleys). When sample tissues were examined, the level of cholinesterase enzyme in the spatialist's brain areas was much higher than that of the visualists. Testing the enzyme activity beforehand gives an accurate prediction as to which of the categories the test animals will belong to. The telescope and electronic computer have been combined to locate the lost planet Athalia. With the combination, Dr. Paul Herget, of the Cincinnati Observatory, rediscovered the minor planet which had been lost for fifty years. The planet, originally discovered photographically at the Heidelberg Observatory in Germany in #, was not photographed again until #, when Indiana University took about # plates of minor planets. While checking the plates recently, Dr. Herget solved the problem of It took him exactly one minute to solve the problem which had plagued and teased astronomers for almost half a century. # -- #. # -- #. # -- # vibrations. # -- Greater. # -- Hooke's Law. # -- Lower. # -- #. #I -- Radiation. # -- #. "You can stop worrying, Jane. My job's secure now! And here's the insurance policy to prove it -- my I.C.S. diploma!" Th is feeling of security is probably typical of every I.C.S. graduate. Because -- as the job situation gets tighter, the man with I.C.S. training has the advantage. Why? Your I.C.S. diploma tells your present employer three important things: (#) You want to make the most of your present job. (#) You have the training you need for advancement. (#) You look for better ways of doing things on your own. What you do about your future is up to you. Do nothing and stay at your present job at the same old pay. Or earn an I.C.S. diploma in your spare time for security , promotions , more pay! Your first step is to mark the course that interests you in the coupon below, and mail it to us. Free books We'll send you two interesting books. The first, "How to Succeed," is a gold mine of helpful tips. Points out many small things in your personality and behavior that can make the difference between success and failure. The second book tells you about the opportunities in the field of your choice. Costs pennies a day Many an I.C.S. student has mado up the cost of his course in one month with the salary increase his I.C.S. training earned for him. By studying at home in your spare time, you pay yourself many times an hour more than you're now making. (One student reports -- "My I.C.S. course was worth # an hour to me.") The security of your present job -- or the success in finding the new job you've always wanted -- is in your hands. Move ahead with I. C. S. training while others stay behind on the routine, small-pay jobs. Remember, your first step to security and success is to mail this coupon. Take a few minutes and do it note. If you put it off, it can cost you your future. I.C. S., Scranton #, Penna. For Real Job Security -- Get I. C. S. Training! ( Partial list of # courses)  Air Conditioning -- Refrig.  Architecture  Building Contractor  Building Maintenance  Carpenter and Mill Work  Estimating  Heating  Painting Contractor  Plumbing  Reading Arch. Blueprint  Steamfitting D Cartooning  Commercial Art  Fashion Illustrating  Magazine Illustrating  Aeronautical Engineering Jr.  Aircraft  Engine Mechanic  Advertising  Bookkeeping and Accounting  Business Administration  Business Correspondence  Certified Public Accounting  Creative Salesmanship  Federal Tax  Letter-writing Improvement  Managing Small Business  Office Management  Retail Business Management  Sales Management  Stenographic-Secretarial  Traffic Management  Analytical Chemistry n  Chemical Engineering  Sketching and Painting q Qem. Lab. Technician  Auto Body Rebuilding  Natural Gas Prod  Trans.  Auto Elec. Technician  Petroleum Engineering  Auto-Engine Tune Up  Plastics  Automobile Mechanic  Pulp and Paper Making  Civil Engineering  Construction Engineering  Highway Engineering  Reading Struct. Blueprints  Sanitary Engineering  Structural Engineering  Surveying and Mapping O Aircraft Drafting  Architectural Drafting  Electrical Drafting  Mechanical Drafting  Mine Surveying and Mapping  Ship Drafting  Structural Drafting  Electrical Engineering  Electrical Maintenance  Electrician  Contracting  Lineman  Commercial  Good English  High School Subjects  Mathematics  Foremanship  Industrial Supervision  Leadership and Organization  Personnel-Labor Relations  Gas -- Electric Welding  Heat Treatment  Metallurgy  Industrial Engineering  Industrial Instrumentation  Industrial Supervision  Machine Design-Drafting  Machine Shop Inspection  Machine Shop Practice  Mechanical Engineering  Quality Control  Reading Shop Blueprints  Refrigeration  Sheet Metal Worker  Tool Design  Toolmaking  Electronics  Practical Radio -- TV Eng'r'ng  Radio and TV Servicing  Radio Operating  Television -- Technician  Air Brakes  Car Inspector  Diesel Locomotive  Locomotive Engineer  Section Foreman  Combustion Engineering  Diesel -- Elec.  Diesel Eng's  Electric Light and Power  Stationary Fireman  Stationary Steam Engineering  Carding and Spinning  Cotton, Rayon, Woolen Mfg.  Finishing and Dyeing  Loom Fixing  Textile Designing  Textile Eng'r'g  Throwing  Warping ana Weaving  Domestic Refrigeration  Marine Engineering  Ocean Navigation  Shipfitting  Short Story Writing  Telephony Name-AgeHome AddressCity. Occupation...Zone...State...Working Hours. A.M. to P.M... Canadian residents send coupon to International Correspondence Schools, Canadian, Ltd... Montreal. Canada... Special tuition rates to members of the U. S. Armed Forces. This big, wonderful book of puzzle pleasure If you subscribe now to contains the largest, most fascinating, varied and interesting selection of puzzles, word games, math games, quizzes, brain teasers, etc. you ever saw! if you subscribe to # issues (two years) of America's favorite puzzle magazine... the magazine with the most puzzle features of any magazine published today. In addition to over a hundred different puzzles, each issue contains such famous special features as: Adventures in Words , Great Names You Should Know, Fun with Words , Your Favorite Quiz, and For the Young Folks. Here indeed is a magazine designed for the entire family. If you do not agree that here is the most puzzle pleasure you ever saw for the money -- after you have examined both the book ing why, and we will return your money at once. You keep the magazine and the book. Kingston, New York Enclosed is # which will be refunded to me if I am not completely satisfied. PREVIEW -- What happens when billions of minute metal particles start "bleeding" back from the fourth dimension, perforating with fatal results the population of America? The above reproduction (black on red tint) is made from the full color cover painting, by terious magnitude which is finally solved by simplicity itself is in the next issue of IF. Watch for this unusual cover, in full color, on your nearest newsstand. All Stories New and Complete c s B I By Kelly Freas: illustrating 'The Strangers" IF is published bi-monthly by Quinn Publishing Company, Inc. Volume #, No. #. Copyright # by Quinn Publishing Co., Inc. Office of publication, # Lord reet Buffalo, New York. Entered as Second Class Matter at Post Office, Buffalo, New York. Subscription S# for # issues in U.S. and Possessions; Canada # for # issues; elsewhere .#. Allow four weeks for change of address. All stories appearing in this magazine are fiction; any similarity to actual persons is coincidentaL Not responsible for unsolicited artwork or manuscripts. #c a copy. Printed in U.S.A. Next issue on sale Juste l#th ventions all over the country has been flowing across our desk in an almost continuous stream ever since we started IF. Seems as though there are people everywhere who are really inveterate science fiction hobbyists, and they really go all out for it in more ways than just reading the stuff. The favorite gambit at these shindigs seems to be the auction at which fans vie with each other to bid for mint copies of some magazine, or an original illustration or manuscript. The fans are really out to add to their collections, and woe betide the guy or gal who tries to beat them out of the one particular cover or illo that they want. On second thought that kind of enthusiasm isn't surprising -- recent surveys show that "hobbying" (to coin a word) is the nation's biggest industry. Sounds absurd, doesn't it? But in a broad sense the "big" industries -- steel, transportation, communication, construction, etc., all have to take a back seat Of coxirse, anything that diverts your mind and gives you mental and physical stimulation or relaxation is a hobby -- whether it be sport cars, do-ityourself, collecting science fiction illustrations or bird watching. And taken in the aggregate it is physically and morally a bigger industrial giant than any listed on the stock exchanges. world has so many ways to relax and so much leisure time to relax as we do. Here in America the poorest man as well as the richest can take some time out to get his mind off business or personal problems -- if he wants to. Which is one of the reasons that we have the strongest nation the world has ever seen. A nation that can relax, can rebound; a man with a hobby or two to relax him now and again isn't so brittle that he'll crack when tension is applied. This "hobbying" really makes for a titanic industry. According to recent figures, the do-it-yourself business alone has grown to something like # annually. That's past year for tools and gimmicks to make home-made chairs, tables, doll houses, doghouses, playroom bars, etc. Hardware manufacturers, paint makers, building material fabricators provide the materials and even produce "do-it-yourself" kits for the hobbyist who likes to work with have gone into a rash of public ations that have sprung up like mushrooms around this business. They give you simplified directions, advise you what tools you need, advise you on technique and even provide patterns and blueprints for anything from a shoeshine box to a ten room house. Industrial exhibits put on for do-it-yourself enthusiasts So, despite the fact that we might wind up by having the carpenter, electrician, plumber or mason to do it all over again -- that's beside the point; at least we have had the fun of monkeying with it ourselves. Sure, some folks spend a hundred or two hundred bucks for tools and make something they couldn't get # cents for -- but it was a lot of fun and diverted the tensions for a while. A guy can spend a lot of dough for fishing equipment and fish for two or three years before he catches enough fish to make a healthy breakfast -- but ask any fisherman if he can count his fun by the number of fish he caught. The same is true of those who hunt, or play golf, or collect butterflies, or do crossword puzzles. I know someone who collects the covers on paper matches -- does it with a passion -- and it's a really fascinating collection. You never knew so many different messages and pictures could be put on match book covers. And this person, who spends very little now and then for scotch tape and loose leaf sheets, gets as much kick out of this collection, which comes from all over the world, as the man who spends thousands of dollars on his gun collection. My wife collects miniature porcelain rabbits and I've found out that the porcelain type is dam near as prolific as the meat and fur type. If you think about it for a minute you'll realize that almost everyone you know collects something... from buttons to furniture. enumerate hobbies or the expenses involved. The point is that a hobby, or some form of relaxation, is important business and, what's more vital, is excellent and important therapy for all of us who live in a tense world. Discuss a person's hobby and watch him glow, watch the animation that lights his face whether he's listening or talking. Try a business conversation gambit with a stranger on a train and the fountain of talk dries up pretty fast ; he's relaxing at the moment and doesn't want to get tied up in mental knots or petty shop talk. Look around, take stock of some of the folks you know both socially and in a business way... we'll wager a "do-it-yourself" kit that the cranks, the malcontents are the ones who haven't got a hobby. So, three bows to the hobby industry, may it grow even bigger and bigger. Its products are probably the closest thing to a cure-all that Mankind has yet come across. The relaxation afforded by a change of pace in thinking, in physical effort, in mental approach, makes America and Americans healthier -- in every way. -- jlq Though he had been molded y he had also been broken. Yety as they laughed at himy they feared him -- for they shared a knowledge he didnt know he possessed. back on the bar and flicked the two bent and sodden straws that hung over the lip. "Happy Birthday to me," he whispered to himself, and hit the straws so sharply that they danced halfway around the inside of the glass. So much for the past twentyfour years. Eighteen years of having it good, six of having it bad. He raised a finger at the bartender and pushed his glass forward. The man nodded and began to mix a fresh drink. Six years of being half a man. After eighteen years of training to be something more than a man. Spencer hitched his bad leg awkwardly around on the stool, fumbling in his pockets for a match. "Mr. Laban is dead, I'm afraid." The voice was quiet, but firmly modulated -- the voice of that rare animal, the trained elocutionist. Or the operatic singer, Spencer thought inanely as his head snapped around and he looked at the man who suddenly sat beside him. His hair was gray -- prematurely so, to judge by his tanned, lean face, which was neither lined nor rough-skinned. His eyes sparked with the poise and confidence implicit in the graceful carriage of his body. He was not consciously drawn up for inspection. He simply radiated unshakable grace and capability. "How do you know and how'd you find me?" Spencer demanded. The man reached out, metal glittering in his tapered fingertips, and lit Spencer's cigarette. "He died of a heart attack early this morning." For the first time, Spencer realized how much alcohol was at work in his system. He was finding it difficult to concentrate. Sustained thought was impossible. "What's your name, fellow?" he asked harshly. The graceful man smiled. "It doesn't mean anything to you? Mr. Laban's death?" "What kind of a question is that? Of course it means something -- if it's true. I knew him for a long time. He did a lot for me. I'm as human as the next guy." The man raised his eyebrows in polite arches. "Ah?" Then he smiled fleetingly. "I'm sorry. You seem to have misunderstood my meaning." He laughed -- a surprisingly bass sound that filled the small bar for a brief moment, dying out before it attracted attention. "All right," he said as though something Spencer said had pleased him very much "Good night." He slipped off his stool. "Wait a minute! Where's his body?" The graceful man shook his head. "I don't know. I don't suppose it really matters." He stepped away, and with a wave of his hand, was gone up the shadowy stairs to the street. Spencer looked after him, frowning. He shook his head sharply to wipe some of the fog out of his forebrain and half pushed himself off his stool, but the bartender touched his arm. "Your drink, sir." "Uh? Oh, thanks -- what do I owe you?" He gulped the drink while the bartender made change, and got up the stairs as rapidly as he covdd, but the graceful man was out of sight by then. Spencer cursed his drinking. He'd picked a fine time. On the other hand, if he hadn't been in the bar, the graceful man wouldn't have found him. That seemed a thin thesis, somehow. Very thin. The man had found him here -- he could have found him anywhere else. Spencer couldn't decide what to do now. All his thought processes seemed trapped in some maze that let them scurry aroimd and around, with never a clear channel in which to flow. And now the complicated emotions of grief, regret, and remembrance, with their attendant hosts of bitterness, were crowding into the maze, leaving no room for anything more. He wondered, fleetingly, what the graceful man's purpose might have been, but he had to let that curiosity pass for the moment. In any case, whatever the graceful man had been trying to accomplish, he had failed. Except that he hadn't seemed disapp)ointed. On the contrary. Spencer frowned again. He threw away his cigarette and lit a fresh one. Walking awkwardly, lost in thought, his shoe-sole slurring on the sidewalk, he made his way down the dark street. H e found himself on a bench in Washington Square. Let us go back, he thought as he leaned his forehead on his palms. Let us review the case. Westen Hillyard Spencer, b. ###. d.? Hgt: #', #" Wght: # lb. Eyes: brwn. Hair: blonde. Ls: ## Distinguishing Marks: Extreme scarification of the ideals; Deformation of the soul. He coughed smoke out of his raw throat and smiled sardonically. He was going to hate himself in Ae morning. "Which," he said aloud to the Borough of Manhattan, "is not strictly unprecedented." On three drinks? His forehead knotted convulsively. It had been only three, hadn't it? What was happening to his liquor capacity? But his consciousness was drifting away from his surroundings and he was surrendering to the tide of memory. Mr. Laban had been a strange man. Where had he come from? Spencer frowned as he tried to remember the answer and could not find it. It seemed as though his family had always known the carefully-dressed man with the goldheaded stick which he carried almost like a sword, and behind whose eyes burned the unusual fire of some extraordinary drive. Certainly, he had been a visitor in the Spencer home since the beginning of Westen' s memories. No -- Mr. Laban had certainly visited the Spencer home, but he was not a visitor, in the ordinary sense of the word. Nor was it Westen's parents that he came to see. But there seemed no adequate way of describing precisely what that complicated relationship between them had been. His visits had been all alike, no matter where the Spencers happened to be living. Unannounced and unexpected, there would be the thump of the stick on the doormat, and then the knock on the door... "George! It's Mr, Laban!" His mother's voice -- suddenly tense and uneasy. "I heard it!" His father -- suddenly irritated. Then his father's sigh, and a look of resignation crossing his features. "You want to answer it, Madge?" "Can't you? Just this once? I mean... I'm wearing this awful apron -- " And his father would sigh once more, and go to the door where Mr. Laban waited without knocking again, as if sure there was someone coming to let him in, as there always was. And his mother woxdd dart into the kitchen. Sometimes, she didn't come out until Mr. Laban was gone. If Mr. Laban ever noticed her absence, or overheard the fretful discussion that followed his knock, he gave no sign of it. George Spencer would open the door. "Hello, George, how are you?" Mr. Laban's voice was a deep, confident bass, resonant with vigor and self-assurance. "Is Westen at home?" "Hello, Mr. Lab. Yes, he's home." Westen noticed that his father never added that, somehow, Westen was always at home when Mr. Laban came. He merely took Mr. Laban's hat and stick, and then called: "Westen! Wes! Mr. Laban's here." Westen always knew it was Mr. Laban as soon as he heard the thump of the stick outside the door. He would come into the parlor, where Mr. Laban was standing in the middle of the rug, smiling and waiting for him. Then, out of Mr. Laban's pockets would come the candy bars and the bright packages of chewing gum -- "Mind, Westen, save the wrappers to throw the gum away in." -- and the shining half-dollars -- "I won't have time to stay and take you to the movies, Westen, but Great Expectations is playing downtown, and I'd like you to see it. See what you can learn from it. If you like it, go down to the library afterwards and borrow the book. There are some valuable things in it -- some very valuable things." He had never been sure of how he really felt about Mr. Laban. Mr. Laban was like aunts and uncles -- he was there, and he was thereby unquestionable. It was a long time before he even began to wonder why, if his parents were so upset by Mr. Laban's visits, those visits continued. But, all through his youth, it was a part of his life to come downstairs whenever he was called and told that the dignified, dark-haired man -- in the suits that were much better tailored than George Spencer's -- was waiting to see him. He would wait until the first rush of candy and half-dollars was over, for then he and Mr. Laban could sit down on the sofa. Mr. Laban would talk to him, choosing his words and expressions carefully, in a quiet and measured tone that his father never seemed to use with him. "Well, Westen, have you thought over what we talked about last time?" "About the chrysalids, sir?" "That's right, Westen. Did you take the books out of the library?" "Yes, sir. The lady thought it was funny for me to take them out -- she thought I was a little boy, and she wanted me to take out one of those books they have... You know, like in primary grades. But I told her you wanted me to read them, and she said she guessed -- she supposed -- it was all right. Are you my tutor?" "Why, yes, Westen, I suppose I am. It's perfectly all right for you to say so, at any rate, as long as that'll get you the books. That's something else for you to remember. Sometimes it's all right to tell people things they think are so, even if they aren't, as long as you know you're doing it for a good purpose. But what did you learn from the books?" "Well, sir, there are certain kinds of insects that m#ike a sort of shell around themselves, and live in it until they're ready to come out, and then they're moths. The shell is called a chrysalis, and it's sort of hard inte -- ingument. And -- " "That's fine, Westen. I don't expect you to be able to tell me all you've learned, because it's not necessary. If you've read the books carefully, all the information has been stored in your brain, and will be available all your life, even if you seem to forget it after a while. Remember what I told you about background?" "Yes, sir. I don't have to memorize everything -- not like poems, or multiplication tables. It's still in me, even if I can't just say it right off, and every time I learn something new it gets added to my old background, and all the pieces of what I know get hooked together. Then, when I grow up, I'll be able to use all those hooked-together pieces without really remembering every piece all the way through. I'll just know what to do." "That's right, Westen. When you grow up, you'll know what to do." A S HE thought of it now, Westen L still could not understand how his parents could have been so ineffectual. Certainly, they must have resented Mr. Laban. Admittedly, there had been something uncomfortable to them in Mr. Laban's interest. It had been a strange sort of interest, too -- somewhat like that of the rich, resented uncle who was not really doing too much for his favorite poor nephew now, but who, in the future, might... The train of implication was obvious. And yet, Mr. Laban had never said anything of that nature, or even hinted at it. There had simply been a manner in his attitude toward Wes, a tone in the words he spoke to him, that seemed to trace the far-off but definite outlines of a wonderful and exciting future. With each of Mr. Laban's visits, varied in length and frequency as they had been, that atmosphere of expectation had grown more tangible, and the shape of the future had seemed more real. "Well, now, Westen, I suppose you'd like to go on to college?" Mr. Laban was older now. His hair had grayed slightly, but his eyes still glowed with their unfathomable drive, and his expression showed no lessening of the quiet confidence he felt in that future whose sketchy outlines were taking on more and more concreteness. Spencer shuffled his feet awkwardly. In the past few years he had become increasingly aware of the discomfort Mr. Laban's visits brought to his home. But he enjoyed his talks with the quiet man whose sentences fell into measured paragraphs, building verbal structures of logic and thought. As his parents lapsed into a gray anonymity of word and action, he found himself more and more drawn to Mr. Laban. Their relationship had slowly but systematically shifted to an intellectual peerage. Nevertheless, he knew that his parents regarded that relationship with a sort of hopeless desperation -- as though some force had progressively drawn their only child away from them, sapping their first hope and pride in a son to carry on the heritage of their name. So, now, he hesitated. "Well, Mr. Laban, I don't know. I'd like to, I suppose. But it'd be kind of hard on my parents. Even if I earned enough money to put me through school, there'd be at least four years before I was doing anything to help them out. My father isn't earning as much as he used to." "Yes, yes, that's a point. A good point. But remember that your father wouldn't have to contribute to your support any longer, either. It seems to me that his pay is large enough to provide for your mother and himself. "It would be a shame to miss what a college education can offer you, Westen. Reading, by itself, is not enough. Trained habits of thought and investigation must be established. Classroom discussion is extremely stimulating. There is only so much that one mind, thinking alone, can accomplish. "I'd like you to study advanced mathematics, too. There is much to be learned from topology and non-Euclidean geometry. Very much. Such information can be very useful to you in your later life." "I'd like to, Mr. Laban. But I don't know..." He found it hard to raise even that weak objection in the face of Mr. Laban's urgent desire for him to go. "Of course, Westen. It's not a decision I'd want you to make in a moment. Think it over. I'm sure you'll do what seems to be the best thing." Mr. Laban let the topic lapse, his interest shifting. "I suppose you've got a young lady these days, eh, Westen?" Spencer found himself blushing, to his dismay. "Well, uh, no one in particular, sir." Mr. Laban smiled -- the wise, kind smile that crossed his quiet features from time to time. "That's as it should be at your age. Some time -- next year, perhaps -- I'd like you to meet someone I know. She's a fine girl. A warm, sensitive person. I'm sure you'd like her." Spencer flushed again, and substituted an uncomfortable smile for his lack of an answer. Mr. Laban smiled understandingly in return. And he had gone to college. A small, not-tcx-eminent school which could, however, be the stepping-stone for a later transfer to a more famous institution. Moreover, Mr. Laban had arranged for a sports scholarship that left him free to spend more time in study without having to work. And now he remembered his parents, when he had left them at the bus station. His mother and father had been thin, bleached-out wraiths of the people he remembered from his early childhood. His mother had cried weakly, and clung to him, while his father had gripped his hand more strongly than he ever had before. "Wes, I hope you do yourself good down there," he had said. His face drifted into an acceptance of permanent frustration. "I guess there're people who know something most other people don't -- people who can get almost anything they want out of life. They know how to make other people do things their way. I don't know -- we haven't been as close to you as your mother and I would have liked, maybe. But if they can teach you how to be one of those people, well... I haven't got it figured out into the right words, I guess." He stopped, and his grip grew even tighter. "Anyway -- good luck, Wes." T he goalposts were etched in white against the flat blue of the sky that towered over the backs of the dun jerseys in front of him. Gravel and scattered clumps of grass churned under his feet as he back-pedalled, feeling the muscles of his calves and thighs taking the impacts in coiled surety. There was a voice, cracking out over the field, spattering off the almost empty stands in this practice session, and the dun jerseys were weaving back and forth in response to the signals. Most important, there was a ball. It flickered back. A man caught it, spun, feinted to the lft side of the line, spun again, leaped, and lobbed the ball further back. Another man took it, touched one blunt nose down, and then Spencer felt the surge beginning at the sole of his foot, rolling up calf and thigh, and felt the momentum gathering in his body as he drove forward. Then his right leg lashed out for the last time, with all his weight and hurtling mass behind it. The ball boomed like a beaten drum, and rose toward the horizontal crossbar. He grinned, his lips in a thin line that dug back into his cheeks at the comers. He kept his eye on the ball, and did not see the B Team's dun jerseys hurtling aside as the green-and-silken-white varsity cannoned through the light and milling line. His foot was still in the air, and he balanced on his left toe. Suddenly there was gravel in his mouth, and he spat it out. He kept his eyes closed, breathing despite the knife-edge that touched him whenever his ribs rose or fell. He spat again. The gravel had tasted bloody. There were men surging around him. He heard the coach come lumbering up, heard his savage bellow at his assistant. 'What kind of crazy play was that?" The assistant stumbled over his words in the face of the coach's violence. "Gee, Andy, it was just a thing I had dreamed up to get everybody warmed up fast. Have everybody working their specialty at the same time." "There's better ways than having them practice illegal plays!" "I'm sorry, Andy," the assistant said flatly. "What about Spencer, here?" the coach demanded. "Had the wind knocked out of him, I guess." The assistant's voice had a shrug in it. There was a peculiar edge to the man's words. Spencer felt the coach's bulk squatting down beside him. "How is it, kid?" The bellowing voice was gentle. Spencer tried to make some sort of sound, but he found that the best he could do was to cough air out of his throat in a series of ugly grunts. He felt the coach's urgent fingers touching the side of his mouth where the blood must have been trickling out, then felt gravel rebound from his side as the coach leaped to his feet and spun, shouting for the trainer. As he could not remember the eleven men hitting him, so he could not now recall the interval between the coach's frantic shouts and the time when he opened his eyes. The two squads of players, the coach, and the assistant were standing around him, towering over his face. The trainer was cursing as he worked. He moved his eyes slowly up toward the assistant coach. Strange, that on such a hot, bright day a man's face could be completely free of perspiration, the eyes wide open in the glare, with something smiling slightly in them. Spencer remembered thinking: Its my ribs, damn it! Leave the leg alone! But it turned out to be the leg, too. Mr. Laban came to see him in the student infirmary. The cane thumped on the composition flooring outside the door of his room, and Spencer came awake instantly. His mind cleared of the drifting semi-lethargy that a month in the traction sling had brought. Then the door opened, and he saw the man -- the much older man, he saw with sharp dismay -- who nevertheless still carried pride and dignity on his shoulders. "Mr. Laban!" "How are you, Westen?" The voice was quiet. Not so much quiet as still, Spencer realized, his dismay growing. And pride and dignity were not, somehow, proper substitutes for confidence. His mouth quirked sidewise in a crooked smile, and he gestured at the ropework stretching his body. "I'm about as well off as you could expect." "Yes. Um -- yes, yes," Mr. Laban murmured absently. He pulled a chair away from the wall and sat down at the foot of Spencer's bed. He reached out awkwardly and touched the heavy cast on Westen' s leg, as though hoping against hope that it was not really solid. "Westen -- Im -- I'm sorry." "So am I. But it's not anybody's fault." Spencer shrugged. Mr. Laban shook his head quickly. "It was mine. I sent you down here. I knew they'd try to get at you, but I thought they wouldn't be able to. I misjudged." Spencer looked at him in bewilderment, "I'm afraid I don't follow you," he told him, wondering just how badly Mr. Laban was feeling -- whether the sharp change in his manner had gone so far as to leave him with a vague persecution mania. But Mr. Laban was going on. "Westen -- your parents have passed away." Spencer lay suspended, his mind sagging in concert with his body. "They both had very bad hearts," Mr. Laban said. "They died almost together." "I didn't know," Spencer said tonelessly. "It only happened yesterday." He hadn't known they were sick, was what he'd meant, but Spencer only nodded. Somehow, he didn't want to talk about them. "What do you plan to do after you're well?" Mr. Laban asked, his sequence of thought leaping urgently from point to point without pause, as though he did not have much time. The question shocked Spencer. Didn't Mr. Laban have some plan? "I don't know," he answered finally. "They cancelled the scholarship." Mr. Laban nodded. "It's a small school. And it wasn't really their responsibility. They're paying for your treatment." "Sure. When they figure out a way to buy me a new hip, I'm sure they'll let me know." "Westen!" But the protest was perfunctory. The purpose was gone from Mr. Laban's manner, and he acted like a man picking up the fragments of a broken, valuable possession that could never be made whole again. "All right, Westen, perhaps you know the best way for you to feel. I've arranged a position for you. A very reputable New York concern. If you do your work as well as I'm sure you can, you'll have a secure place in the company for the rest of your life." Mr. Laban stood up. "I'm sorry if I seem brusque." He rubbed his forehead for a moment. "I'm all alone, suddenly, and there's so much to do... I'm older than I should be." He began putting his chair back in its place. Spencer felt something boiling inside him. It was too much. To pick up a boy, split him off from his parents, push him, pull him, nudge him into the rough semblance of a shape he was to assume  -- and then drop him. Too much, to come here and deliver a series of blows like this, then to mutter an apology and go. "Mr. Laban!" "Westen, I'm sorry. Deeply sorry." Spencer shook his head emphatically. 'Tm sorry, Mr. Laban, but I deserve more than that. Some sort of explanation, at least." Mr. Laban gazed down at him through his tired eyes. Finally he sighed. "Yes, you do, Westen. But I can't give it to you." Spencer's lips compressed. "Mr. Laban -- have you ever been hit high and low at the same time? When you didn't have the faintest expectation of it?" Mr. Laban . nodded slowly. "Many times. I understand what you feel, Westen." "I'm sorry, but I can't accept that. I have been hit that way. Twice. Once out on that field, and by you, just now. It sort of separates the boy from the man. And I'll tell you this, flat out; I know something funny's been going on. You didn't pick me up because of rny curly hair or bright eyes. You haven't been grooming me all my life for any clerkship. And I didn't get the business because somebody was afraid I'd steal the job in the bank from some relative of theirs. And unless you tell me now -- right now -- what's been going on, I'll find out. Then I'm going to blow the whole thing wide open, and you might not like where the pieces fall. So let's do it the easy way." He sank back as far as the framework would let him, surprised at himself, as though some unexpected predator had struck out the darkness behind his conscious mind. Mr. Laban, too, was looking at him oddly. Then he nodded slowly. "Perhaps you're right." He frowned, as though arguing with himself. "I hadn't considered that reaction on your part." He gestured helplessly. "But I can't tell you everything. For your own good -- " He nodded to reaffirm the point as Spencer grimaced his annoyance. Yes, Westen -- believe me. You've taken my word before. Take it again. I can tell you this; you're quite right. I had plans for you. And you had the original qualifications to fulfill them. Those plans are at crosspurposes with those of another group as powerful as ours -- as mine. And we do not clash on a level which even modern science for all its microscopes and telescopes, can detect. You might argue with me. You might point to your broken bones. Believe me, Westen -- that is only the path of the... the bullet, if you visualize in those terms. The damage is deeper, and far less easy to repair. Impossible to repair. It is in your mind, Westen. The damage to your body is nothing -- or, if anything, only a means to an end. It has put you on the defensive -- given you a badge of inferiority. You may not realize it now. But you will never again feel yourself equal to any setback or obstacle which might appear. At the crucial moment when only a firm self-confidence could support you, you would remember your damaged body. You would feel the psychological weight of being -- forgive me -- a cripple. You would falter. "And where we fight -- and in the way we fight -- there can be no faltering." He stopped and looked quickly at Spencer. "That is the truth, as much as I can give it to you. You will find it difficult to believe. I'm sorry about that. "Wcsten -- it might be best if you forgot some of the things we've talked about in the past. I think you've realized for some time that I was training you toward an understanding of things which very few men have ever understood before. Now I have told you, as much as I am able, why I was doing it. And you must take my word for it that the old goal is now unattainable. Consider the forces in play here. Try to forget. It would be terribly dangerous for you to attempt anything else." He looked at Spencer's ruined body, and spread his hands helplessly. "Please forgive me." He reached the door, shoulders sagging. Spencer stared after him. Suddenly, he was remembering all of Mr. Laban's kindnesses, and the picture of Mr. Laban as he had been -- confident, his step alive, his cane swinging incisively. It did not matter whether he believed Mr. Laban now or not -- he could not let the old man leave this way, hagridden. He called out sharply, trying to offer him a straw. "You mentioned a girl once, Mr. Laban. I don't know how, but couldn't she help you?" Mr. Laban shook his Head sadly. "Giulia? No, no. I failed with her, too." His voice dropped once more. "I thought, for a while..." He opened the door, staring into space. "Hopeless," he murmured. The door began to close. "Goodbye, Mr. Laban." "Goodbye, Spencer. I -- I am sorry your parents died." And then the door closed. T he position was a junior clerkship in a bank. He'd had to start low. Personnel managers didn't take as kindly to football men as most schools like to think, and one year of college wasn't much anyway. But starting low was good enough if you could work yoiur way up in a hurry. A man who had to walk slowly could usually devote himself to thinking fast. A low, crookedly triumphant smile ran across Spencer's mouth. And life was a remarkably malleable medium. The smile hooked more sharply as he remembered the hurt and bewildered adolescent who had felt so sloppily emotional when Mr. Laban left him in the infirmary. It was quite possible to shape an attitude and atmosphere in oneself which precluded any more opportunities for hurt or helplessness. But, with banks as with all higher form of human endeavor, there is a stratum at whose underside every man must halt. Some beat their wings frantically against the glassy surface, refusing to admit that it takes time for a vice president to die so that a division head may take his place, thus leaving a vacuum to be filled with the rarified gas of a section manager who, in turn, leaves a breach through which the senior clerk may leap into the sun of the private payroll. Spencer had touched that stratum, recognized it for what it was, and given notice, all in the course of a week. That had been a few weeks ago. Mr. Laban had not even known his protege was on the bum. Now, he would never know. He did not remember getting up from the park bench, but suddenly he realized that he was leaning against the inside of the arch at the foot of Fifth Avenue, where he had no business being, where it was physically dangerous to be, since his feet were planted in the roadway. But he was too busy thinking of the desperate, aging man with the dying fire behind his eyes. Spencer shook his head in the cloying darkness of the midsummer night. Mr. Laban was dead. Whatever the old man's future had been, he had never reached it. So, the rich uncle had never left his fortune to his nephew. Great Expectations, Mr. Laban had never dreamed that the parallel might be so close. Spencer shrugged up at the overhanging face of an apartment house. Perhaps he'd made an heir of his niece, after all. What was the girl's name again? Julia? No, not quite Julia but the slightly different and more lilting Giulia. He had never heard her last name. Coincidents were rampant all around him in his life. The graceful man had been sitting beside him in the bar. Another coincidence. And, it was yet another accident that the light, open-topped car hummed to a stop beside him. He turned his blank face toward it, and found himself looking into the grave brown eyes of a slender-faced girl whose chestnut hair was drawn sharply back over one ear and swirled down over her other shoulder. Her deep, full-red lips were slightly parted. Her voice carried a ghost of uncertainty. "You shouldn't be standing there, you know," she said, but the light words were not as casual as they should have been, and she was looking at him with an odd intensity of interest. He looked at her speechlessly for a moment. This is my night for characters, he thought. Well, Tm in the right neighborhood. But, for some reason, he found himself drawn to this girl with even more than the amount of interest to be expected. Hot damn! Adventure corn.es to my hum-drum life! he tried to gibe the odd feeling away, but could not quite succeed. And because it was a midsummer's night, and he stood, still vaguely adrift in alcohol, at the foot of a fabulous street, he shook his head gently and answered her. "I don't really know why I'm standing here. You have funny-shaped ears." She stared at him for one blank instant, her dark eyebrows like wings. Then she laughed. "My name's Giulia." He smiled crookedly. 'T was just thinking of you." What the hell, it was a half-truth, wasn't it? "You were?" she frowned. "Sure. My name's Wes." Her mouth trembled into surprise, and she grew a little pale. "But I was just thinking of you!" They looked at each other blankly, not quite ready to accept the coincidence at its face value. "Well' he said finally. "Fancy that." "Y -- yes," she answered. She was lost in thought for a moment. "Well. Would -- would you like to go for a ride?" Why not? He nodded. He took his hand away from the side of the arch and walked around the nose of the car to the other door. He felt his right foot touch the asphalt crookedly, felt the straining halfjammed action of his hip, and the bitterness in him snarled -- but did not cry very loudly, or else the midsummer night and something else, equally intangible and equally potent, came in and hushed it. I'm a commercial artist," she said hours later. The Hudson glimmered as the car ran along the broad arm of the George Washington Bridge. The breeze touched them with its fond coolness. "What do you do?" He followed the hurrying dip and stately rise of the suspension cable as it swung above his head. His neck rested on the yielding ridge of the seat's back. "I look at the moon," he said lightly. "I count the stars and smell the night. I drink Tom Collinses in a cellar bar off Sheridan Square. I am a windblown autumn leaf, now tumbling through the air, now spinning groundward, now resting on the frost-touched grass, and when the other leaves fall and cover me -- when the rains of September have packed and trampled me into the tough layer of the other crushed leaves -- I shall lie supine and wait for the blessedly concealing blanket of the snow to hide me, to dissolve me, to put me back in the earth whence I am sprung." She giggled happily and wrinkled her nose. "When you're not being stupid, what do you do?" He raised an admonishing finger. "Ah, Giulia, it is when I am truly stupid that I do anything else. Truly. It is when I send to ask for whom the bell tolls that I am merely a jobless senior clerk in a bank, only recently holding the pursestrings of a thousand -- nay, a hundred thousand -- in my impoverished fingers. Are you a good commercial artist?" She nodded in rapid, self-deriding affirmation. "Oh, very good." She turned the car off the bridge and into the West Side Highway. "Where have we been?" she asked breathlessly. "We have," he ticked off on his upraised fingers, "driven up Fifth Avenue in a midsummer night's delirium. We have circumnavigated Central Park and then, having become bored with the Imperial City, we have been to Bear Mountain, thence to such places as Nyack, sans kayak; we have flirted briefly with an edge of New Jersey, and we have crossed our bridges when we came to them. The Isist one, as I recall, was dedicated to someone named Hamilton or Jefferson or Something, but we, in our bubbleheaded daring, nevertheless made use of it. And that tinkling sound to the east is the break of dawn." He clasped his hands behind his head and sighed. "And we have spoke of many things. Of cabbages, lungs, and the New York Giants, who, we have solemnly decided, are due to make a rousing finish of it, after starting off in their usual miserable slump. If the pitching holds up." "I have to go home," Giulia said. "I know." The cold dawn breeze touched him. Giulia stopped the car in front of his house and rested her head against the back of the seat, her eyes losing their sparkle. "This was fun," she said wistfully. He nodded silently. "I wish this whole world would go away!" she said with sudden vehemence. "I wish things were always like last night." Then the mood left her as unexpectedly as it had come. "Which is classifiable under the heading of escapism," she said wryly. "Onward, Spencer, ever onward. Wheels must turn, pumps must pump, etceteras must etcetera. Send not to ask for whom the bill tolls." He got out of the car reluctantly, and stood beside it, his hands on the window coaming. "Fd like to see you tonight, Giulia." "Fd like to see you." She smiled gently. "Don't mind me. It's a shock, like dropping back off a cloud." "I know. I just bounced off the same one." "Well, let's keep a few wisps around, just to remind us." He shook his head in mild amazement. "Do you realize how much we had to talk about, and didn't? There's Mr. Laban and the whole business of how we happened to meet..." "I know." Her eyes darkened, and something frightened took hold of her lips. "I'm glad we didn't. That's for later -- for much later. I haven't seen Mr. Laban since I -- " Something dark and troubled crossed her face, and she stopped, her nail-bitten fingers tightening on his hand. "Much later," she said softly. "All right," he said lightly. He would not have pressed the point any farther for the world. "I'll call you." She smiled again. "I'll be home most of the afternoon. I may be out buying some dog food or something, but if I don't answer. I'll be back in a minute. "Whatever you do, don't give up." She put a kiss in the air for him before she started the car and drove away. He stood on the sidewalk, looking after her. Of all the inexplicable things that had happened to him since last night, she was the only one he wanted. Nevertheless, he waited until her car was out of sight before he began the twisted, ugly climb up the stairs to his door. He looked up into the doorway, and the graceful man was standing behind the glass, watching every step. T he graceful man held the door open as Spencer reached the top step, his eyes filming with rage. The man put up a quick hand, palm out. "Wait, Mr. Spencer!" There was less assurance in his voice, this time. His lips were slack at the comers with the first hint of apprehension. "I didn't think you'd want me to help you up the steps. On the other hand, here I was. A difficult position." "You're right. What else have you got to say?" "Please listen to me!" Spencer narrowed his eyes. That last had been an unmistakable plea. His mouth twisted scornfully, and his fingers hooked. But the wave of shame and anger had broken within him. He'd be a fool not to pay some attention to the man. "Well?" Spencer almost laughed. But there was too much of a change from the confident, almost superhuman man of last night. The man was badly frightened of something. In that fright, he might say more than he intended. "Go ahead." The graceful man licked at a corner of his mouth. "Could we go up to your room?" Spencer thought it over for a moment. "No," he said finally. "Not yet. Give me one good reason." The graceful man clutched at his sleeve. "Listen," he said urgently, "I'm not one of your enemies. I'm a third party. From outside. I'll help you get your people out of this jam." Suddenly, the memory of that last talk with Mr. Laban was very clear in Spencer's mind. Enemies, Mr. Laban had said. And clashes on a level no Earthman could ever be aware of. Something prickled at the small of Spencer's back, and the carefully acquired cynicism of six years was revealed to be a very feeble wall indeed. The graceful man saw his hesitation. "Listen!" he exclaimed again, "I'm no fool! I cant fight you now! I never suspected that Laban had arranged for you and the girl to meet. Can't you see that? My whole plan was based on the assumption that he'd ven up after both of you were crippled. And so you were, individually. But as a team -- " Spencer shook his head, uncomprehending. He was vastly tired. His shoulder muscles were screaming with the unbalanced load they'd been carrying too long without any rest. His mouth was fogged with last night's alcohol, and the bright glare of the day was stabbing at his bloodshot eyes. "Go on," he said, forcing the words through his stiff mouth. Much of what the man was saying was sheer gibberish. But some of it was clicking into place. The graceful man had his facts arranged in the wrong order, and some of them were not facts at all. But he was telling Spencer what he wanted to know, nevertheless, "There isn't any more. You can see I'm in no position to fight. All right, then I'll help you. I've got to do something. You don't pass over an opportunity like this. Not one like this." Spencer frowned. The man was acting like a commission agent with an account slipping out of his grasp. "What's your price?" Spencer demanded. The man looked startled. "Salvage rights, of course." "On what?" The graceful man stared at him. "On what?" A slow realization came over his face. "You don't know!" He looked up at Spencer's surprised face, inches away, and laughed. "You don't know!" he repeated. "It was an accident! A true accident! I've tricked myself!" Too late, Spencer shot out a hand to grab his jacket. The doormat skidded out from under his bad foot and he fell heavily. His head thudded against the cold tile of the foyer. The graceful man danced back, out of the reach of his grasping hands. Then he sprang forward, hurdling Spencer's body. "What a feeble excuse you are!" the graceful man said with something like incredulity. "What a feeble excuse!" Spencer reached out desperately. But the mat skidded again, and he only slid helplessly to one side. He tried to get to his feet, but the mat slipped again. And once more. The graceful man chuckled. He half-danced down the steps. "I'll be back!" he cried over his shoulder and walked briskly away down the sidewalk, his shoulders straight and his head up in the early morning sunshine. Slowly, Spencer managed to stand up. Completely numb, he staggered to the elevator and got up to his apartment. He stripped off his clothes with weak hands and fell across his bed. He was too close to panic to think now, he realized. Weapons he did not understand, in a war he could not see. And the graceful man was after salvage rights. He had to get to a telephone and warn Giulia. He reached across the bed, his stiffly straight fingers reaching for the instrument. But his body had been too much abused. His fingertips barely touched the smoothness of hard rubber as he fell asleep. Remember this: Any point in one space is adjacent to all points in any other. Here is instantaneous com munication and transportation. Spencer rolled in his sleep. Consider this: The stranded traveler must have hotel accommodations. If these are unavailable, he must knock on the villager's door and beg a lodging for the night. Spencer pawed at his face in annoyance and mumbled. Extrapolate from this: The lodging is suited to the necessity of the lodger. One man's haystack is another's shelter. And if the weary travelers must stop where there are thieves, then they must set out alarms and choose sentries from among their numbers. Finally, Spencer awoke. He remembered the dream, but if dreams were accepted as data, nightmares would be subject to censorship. H e did not know what he was going to say to Giulia. He came out of the subway entrance and hurried toward her apartment house. She had sounded cheerful and unworried over the phone, and he hadn't mentioned the graceful man. As long as she was safe and unafraid, he first of all wanted to find out what she knew about Mr. Laban -- and what weapon had been used to strike her down. Suppose he did find out? What good would it do? What defenses could they raise against the shadowy legions that waited just behind their shoulders? "Wes ten Hilyard Spencer, Aged #, Occupation : Melodramatist," he thought wryly as he swung down the sidewalk. He smiled crookedly, his confused mood beginning to evaporate. Out of the subway and in the light of the cool, comfortable evening, he was rapidly snapping back to normal. He noticed with a slight shock that his limp was far less pronounced when his mind was busy with something else, and then he saw Giulia standing on her steps, waiting for him. She came down and linked her arm with his, her eyes shining and her lips parted not in last night's wonder, but in anticipation. Something warm touched his emotions. "Well, hello!" she said. He realized that he had been standing silently, simply looking at her, and flushed. "Hello." They laughed together, his rueful chuckle mingling with the bright river of her voice. "Whither?" she asked. Catching her mood, he pursed his lips and cocked his head. "Oh, anywhere. Cost is no object." She grinned. "Ah-huh! My jobless poet. Shall we order our car and tour some more?" "All right!" They laughed again. Her car was parked a few yards up the street. They climbed in, and she pulled away from the curb with a growl of the motor. Spencer noticed it. Yesterday, it had been a faint whispering, as gentle as -- well, yes, as gentle as Giulia, just as today it was in perfect keeping with her more intense mood. "I say again, lad -- whither?" She was finding something to respond to in the car's decisive progress. He could see she enjoyed driving; liked the snap of wrists that sent the roadster around a corner with a precise swing of the tires. Yesterday, the car had drifted around the turns. Today it forged through them. "Long Island, maybe?" "Righto!" She shot the car across town, weaving skillfully through traffic. The motor idled threateningly at stop lights, the car jumping ahead of all others as the lights changed. The tires sang waspishly along East River Drive. "Smoke me." "Huh?" He looked at her uncomprehendingly. "A cigarette. A butt. Smoke me, boy, smoke me!" Her fingers snapped out a rapid beat to the words. "Oh. Sure." He lit two cigarettes and put one between her lips. "Hussy." She hadn't smoked last night -- he remembered, guiltily, that he'd never offered her a cigarette. In her mood then, she must have been too shy to ask. "Hussy I be," she agreed, swinging the car onto the Triboro Bridge. "For tonight, I be a hussy." And something laughed in her shining eyes. The road was narrow, a headlighted tunnel in the dark. She drove slowly now, while the breeze whispered through the shrubbery that grew close to either side of them. "Feel like stopping for a little chat?" she asked him with a lazy turn of her head. He nodded. "All right." Her hand moved to the dashboard, and the lights switched off. The night fell in a murky roadblock. Giulia cut her speed to almost nothing, bent over the wheel, and peered ahead. "Yuh, yuh, yuh," she checked off under her breath, her glance darting over the almost invisible bushes beside them. "Fwi.'" She spun the wheel suddenly, and the car, sweeping branches cracklingly aside, nosed off the road and into a gap in the shrubbery. She ran the car forward until a screen of branches closed behind them, and then cut the motor. "By God, I can find it in the dark!" she breathed to herself. Spencer handed her a fresh cigarette, all his muscles completely relaxed. Last night had not been a time for talking. But tonight's was a different Giulia. For the first time in six years, he did not feel alone. For the first time since the graceful man had spoken to him in the bar, he did not feel bewildered and afraid. Their childhoods had been much alike. For as long as she could remember, Mr. Laban had been coming to her parents' home. And then, suddenly, six years ago, something had struck out and crippled her. Not physically. But so viciously that Spencer did not pry for the details she was obviously reluctant to give. And, at the same time, her parents had died. "Heart attacks?" Spencer asked bitterly. She nodded silently. "And right after that, Mr. Laban dropped you," he said. She nodded again. "Just like that." She shrugged and fell silent again. "Did you ever find out what he was training us for?" He asked it only after considerable hesitation. If she said no, that was the end. Then there was nothing left to do but crouch in the depths of the blind alley and listen to the footsteps drawing closer in the night. "I'm -- I'm not sure." The long-held breath sighed out of Spenceis lungs. "It's something about some people -- well, not people, but that'll do, I guess -- who were trapped here on Earth a long time ago. They were traveling through space." She shook her head at the inadequacy of her understanding. "Not in ships, though. It's -- it's hard to understand. Mr. Laban said it was as though our universe was like a tunnel connecting two cities. These... people... were in the tunnel when something happened. Something blocked the ends of the tunnel. And all those people have to wait until somebody digs them out." "Until someone digs them out! How long have they been here?" She shook her head again. "I don't know. But Mr. Laban once said something that made me wonder if it wasn't since before there were people -- I mean people like us." Spencer stubbed his cigarette out and looked into the night that had been falling since the Earth began past. "What was our job?" he asked in a voice that trailed off into a husky whisper. Giulia stirred restlessly on her half of the seat. "I don't know," she said. "It had something to do with those people. That's all I know." Something in her voice caught his attention. He looked more closely and realized she was crying. "GiuUa!" She reached out for him, her face against his shoulder. "Wes! Wes! It's been so lonely!" The car snarled back toward Manhattan. Spencer was driving, his eyes tight, lus responses over-fast and harsh, while Giulia curled luxuriously on the seat beside him, her head in his lap. One hand traced an intricate pattern on his thigh, and the breath flowed smoothly in and out of her relaxed body. Sweet Giulia! he thought. Gentle Giulia! Yes, you can find that shrub-locked hideaway in the dark. I would trust you to find it from anywhere on the Eastern Seaboard, on the darkest night in the dirtiest storm that ever brewed in hell. I'd stake my life on your proficiency. "Smoke me, boy," she murmur from his lap. Smoke you! Fd like to set the fires of hell to roasting you! But he put the cigarette between her lips gently enough. He eased the car to the curb in front of Giulia's house. "We're here," he said. Giulia stirred in his lap. "We're here because we're here because..." she sang softly. She reached up and pulled his lips down to hers. Her nails touched the nape of his neck in a slow movement. "Gall me tomorrow, boy?" "Sure," he lied out of harsh bitterness. "Ah? What's eating you, lad?" "Nothing's eat -- " A ball of ice exploded in his stomach. His hand shot up and grasped her suddenly tense wrist. "You've got awfully long nails. Grandma," he said viciously. "Quick -- where did you meet me last night?" The girl chuckled and lifted her head. "I could answer that. But it wouldn't prove anything." The laughing torrent leaped and rippled under the tone of her voice. "Be damned if I was going to chop my fingernails." His hand crushed her wrist as his jaw set into a harsh, strained line broken by the jut of the muscles that clamped it. "Let's have it!" "Relax, lad. It wasn't that bad." "You wouldn't know." She arched her eyebrows and pouted carelessly. "I'm Giulia's twin sister," she said. "Tina. It's a shorter name -- easier to say over a phone." "Not if you want Giulia," he snarled. "I'll know, next time." He let go of her wrist and flung open the door on his side. He pushed himself out, taking the full shock of his weight on his bad hip, glad of the pain that welled up to distract his rage. Tina grinned up at him. "You may not care, next time." Her eyes glinted with light reflected from a storefront sign, which was red. "I'll care." Tina shrugged. "Will you tell me why?" he asked out of the depth of anger. Tina chuckled and winked at him. "I like you. Generally speaking, I like all of Giulia's men. You sounded mighty cute over the phone." He clutched her shoulder. "Cut it out!" he said from deep in his throat. "Quit playing games. Why'd you go through this rigamarole with me?" For just a moment, the folds of Tina's garish mask parted. "We were curious as to just how much you knew." Then she was laughing again. "So long, sonny," she chuckled. "I'll make a point of telling Giulia what a nice date you are." He turned away, his mouth curling sourly, and dragged his leg up the street toward die subway entrance. H e paid no attention to the placement of his foot or the twist of his body as he made his way from the subway exit to his apartment house. Weapons, he thought in bitter despair. What kills a man more surely -- a bullet through the head or a stab through the heart? And they stabbed deep, sometimes, he suddenly recalled. Tina had dangled bait in front of him, telling him just enough to pull information from him if he had it, not enough to help him if he didn't. What had happened to Giulia? Why hadn't he thought of that while he was there, in front of her house? Why had he turned away, instead of running upstairs? Was that a weapon, too -- as were doormats that suddenly lost all hold on a floor? He had to get in touch with Giulia. His key fumbled in the lock, and he swung the door open with a thud of his shoulder. Hitching his body forward in clumsy surges, he made for the telephone. "Hello," the graceful man said, "I just came in myself." Spencer stopped dead. He pulled in a deep breath and let it sigh out again. Turning around, he went back and closed the door. "Have a seat," he said dully. "Thank you." The graceful man sank down into a chair and crossed his ankles. Spencer sighed again. "I don't think I care anymore," he said, "but how'd you get in here?" "All points in one space are adjacent to any point in any other, remember?" The graceful man chuckled. "But you don't. Besides, it's not quite true, or you people wouldn't be here, would you? But you don't know that, do you?" He laughed. Spencer crossed the room and sat down, feeling the hopelessness wash all the resistance out of his muscles. They were always four steps ahead of him, always laughing. Walls meant nothing to them -- space and time were something to move through. Mr. Laban had warned him. "All right, stop rubbing it in," he said, surprising himself with the peevishness in his voice. "Do whatever you came here for." "That was quite a little hornet's nest you and the girl stirred up," the graceful man said conversationally. "You fooled me. You also fooled your enemies. Temporarily, of course, but my! what a scurrying about there was. Simply because you accidentally ran into each other." He shook his head in wonder. "Get on with it." The graceful man smiled fleetingly. "Now, then -- your little contretemps with, ah, Tina..." "How'd you find out about that?" The graceful man smiled again. "My, you're always asking that, aren't you?" he mused. "You wouldn't know." He chuckled quiedy. "At any rate, there's proof that you've aroused the opposition, so to speak. They can't quite fathom what you're up to -- which is understandable, since you don't realize yourself -- but they are aroused. This is something I am not too happy to see. If they blunder across my own operation, they'll give me trouble." He hitched himself forward in the chair. "I'm very sorry, Mr. Spencer, but I'm afraid we've come to a parting of the ways." He stood up and extended his hand. "I certainly hope you'll bear no lasting grudge." Spencer pushed himself up and reached out to take the hand. The graceful man was still not making any sense, but it hardly mattered any more. The graceful man smiled. "I find it interesting that the most dangerous thing one can do to you people is to kill you before you're ready." His fingers closed around Spencer's. "Ordinarily I'd have my reservations about you. But with success so near, it hardly matters if you're free to transfer to a healthy chrysalis or not..." Spencer realized he was shaking hands with Death. And the things Mr. Laban had taught and told him -- the little hints, the recommended studies, the inexplicable incidents -- were suddenly organized. In the blink of a second, there was a pattern where none had been before. And something that had always been in his mind, straining at the jammed door Mr. Laban had partially opened, extended a paw through the narrow crack. Razorkeen claws clicked open. The graceful man stopped as though something had been dashed in his face. His eyes glittered coldly. "What did you do?" he asked in a faint voice. The hopelessness and confusion began to melt out of Spencer's mind. The new thing, partial and tenuous as it was, began to take its place. He could feel it moving, sense the flexure of its muscles. He had horn doubletaamcd once too often, and this time the boy had jarred away from the man. 'Salvage, eh?" He held the graceful man transfixed on his pitiless gaze and got back to his chair. He twitched the paw again, and the graceful man screamed thinly past the obstruction in his throat. "I can control this thing pretty well," Spencer said as matter-offactly as the graceful man at his best. "But I still don't know why I've got it. Suppose you tell me." He opened his -- grip? -- a fraction. "I -- I can't understand it," the graceful man protested hoarsely. "There was nothing -- nothing... "I believe you fall short of infallibility," Spencer said dryly and flicked a talon at the pain centers responding to the man's trigeminal nerve, "Sit down and stop wasting time." The man -- no longer poised or graceful -- shook himself. He halffell onto the couch, rubbing his throat. He sat looking down at the floor, his voice hopeless. "I've already said that all points in one space are ad -- " "And I already know that. Go on. "Very well. This is not simply a mathematical concept -- " "Obviously." "ilH right! I don't know how much you already know! Show some patience!" Spencer only smiled. "All right," the graceful man resumed more quietly. "A party of travelers were trapped in this universe. How long ago, on the local time scale, I couldnt say. And I don't know how it happened. Possibly they chose a route that isn't open very often, despite what the mathematics say. At any rate, what should have been an instantaneous passage became, instead, a voyage involving thousands of years on the local time scale. And as long as they were in this universe, they had to conform to its physical laws. They were long-lived, in these terms, but not that long-lived. They had to find shelters, somewhere -- some means of staying alive until the route was open again. "You must understand that these were not physical beings. What the human race is trying to accomplish with physical devices, they do as easily as a human raises his arm. "I say 'they do.' What I mean, of course, is -- we do." Spencer looked at him silently. He tightened the clutch of his paw. "'m not lyingr the graceful man screamed. "All right," Spencer said, "You're not lying. What's all this mean in terms of you and myself?" "The travelers went into suspended animation. They went into chrysalis. They started with animals, then switched to human beings when they evolved. I think some of them may have moved into the more complex plants. I don't know. But I do know that at least every human being acts as a chrysalis for one of them. When the chrysalis dies, they move on to a fresh one. Automatically. Most of them are completely unaware of the passage of time. They're just waiting." Spencer frowned, remembering his nightmare. The stranded travelers had crawled into some strange haystacks indeed! "Let's get this cleared up," he said. "First: there are other universes besides this one. Other dimensions, if you want to call them that. All these universes, including ours, are so arranged that any specific point in one touches all points in another. What the scientists call hyperspace -- the thing they figure will allow us to eventually beat the speed-of-light barrier and reach other stars. Right?" The graceful man nodded. "If you know how to shift from universe to universe at will, you can start in this room, say, then drop into the next universe for a moment, and come out in Pittsburgh. Instantaneously." "Ah-AwA.' Except that something went wrong with this particular group of travelers." The man nodded again. "Yes. What it was, I don't know. The transfer isn't mechanical -- we don't use spaceships or any other machinery. Maybe something went wrong in the brain of the individual actually handling the transfer. I don't know." Spencer shrugged. "It doesn't matter. Human -- or inhuman -- error isn't something you can neglect, but it does happen. Now -- let's keep checking. This group of travelers got into this universe, but couldn't get out. Not until certain factors shifted back into proper relationship. They took a wrong turn and got trapped in a blind canyon. They had to wait until something -- some natural process, analogous to a slow shift in geological strata -- opened a new path for them. Right?" The graceful man rubbed his throat. "That's right," he said huskily. His eyes welled with slow hate for Spencer. "Three: These travelers had to find shelter. They did. They seeped into the bodies of living organisms on Earth. When evolution produced people, they took over people. And when their host chrysalis dies, they just find another one. Just like rolling over in your sleep." "Yes." "That's the biggest pack of lies I've ever heard from a sober man." Spencer's claw tightened ruthlessly. "Don't! It's true!" the graceful man screamed. "Listen -- I'm not one of those people! This body was never born on Earth. I made it. I had to. I've got to conform to the physical laws of this universe. So did you. All of you. You had to find shelter, or you'd have died. But the chrysalids don't know. They can't feel you. They live out their lives normally -- they have minds and feelings of their own. But they're chrysalids, just the same. Each of them is the home of one of you. You've got to believe I'm not lying. Look inside yourself. You can do that -- you've got special powers. You're one of the ones whose job it is to watch over the safety of the others!" Spencer looked at him coldly. He couldn't do that. The door in his mind was barely open. He only could half-sense the forces that lived behind it. "Somebody has to be awake all the time," the graceful man was babbling. "Somebody has to fight off the enemies." "Ah. We've finally gotten to that. What about the enemies? Who are they?" The graceful man looked up wearily, and, had Spencer given him the chance, would have sneered. The faintest beginnings of stubbornness trembled at the sides of his lips. But the claw stabbed deep. "Look," he said, "what kind of individuals will you find among any large group of Earthmen? All kinds -- saints and sinners, philanthropists and thieves. What makes you think other kinds of life are any different? "If you can stay awake, so can others. You're a guardian. Others in the group saw a chance to do a little midnight thievery." "All right -- fine. But what can they possibly be after?" Spencer let the rest of his questions go for the moment. This was the important one. The graceful man stared at him. "What? Good Lord, man, don't you know yet? Look -- what kind of medium of exchange would apply among people who don't have material bodies -- who have no use for promises on paper or tokens stamped out of metal? Personal obligation, that's what. Debt. And if you first get someone under your control -- if you tie him up he and all his successive chrysalids are under your domination -- if you enslave his chrysalids, put them in uniform, make them worship some the strangers central ideal that keeps them from drifting away from you... In other words, if you pen diem up in barriers of distinct race, and creed, and nationality -- then they're yours. Sure, the individual chrysalids grow old and die. But the young ones are still bom under your domination. If you set up that kind of system, and then, when the path re-opens, you're the one who wakes up the individuals your chrysalids shelter, and you're the one who shows them the open path -- then they're in your debt. "The catch is, Spencer, your enemies have to eliminate you before they can do that. Because if even one of you Watchers is awake and aware when the route opens, you can wake up all the others. And that's your job. You people -- you Watchers -- were set up from the very beginning, to do just that." Spencer looked at him narrowly. It just might be. Crazy as it was, it just might be. If it wasn't, then how else could you explain the claw that squeezed the graceful man so ruthlessly? "So I'm a Watcher, eh? Or, rather, I was trained to be a Watcher. Giulia was, too. And Mr. Laban was a Watcher." He smiled coldly at the graceful man. "And you're in the salvage business. You found out our situation, somehow, and the path is -- for a percentage. Is that right? Is that right?" "Well, sure -- you don't expect a man to stumble over a setup like this and not take advantage of it, do you? Sure. I'm from the universe you people left, all this time ago. I found the other end of the route, and came in to see what the pickings were. And I ran right into this hassle you're involved in." "So the route's open now, is it?" "Sure. What have I been telling you?" Spencer's mouth crooked in disgust. "How do we stay awake? What do you mean by that?" The graceful man shook his head. "You don't. But in every generation one of you wakes up for the balance of your chrysalid's life. You can awaken others and train them to be your successors." "And our enemies have a similar setup?" "Sure." "Is that all?" "Isn't it enough?" The graceful man shot him a bitter look. Spencer flexed the muscles of his power, and the graceful man reeled. "Don't!" he shouted. "I'm a human being, just as though I was bom here. I feel with these nerves. I'm at the mercy of these organs. Stop hurting me!" Spencer laughed and let go. "All right, sonny," he said coldly. "I'll let you live. But when you get back to where you came from -- remember you owe your life to the individual who's living in here with me." The graceful man -- the erstwhile graceful man -- looked at him bitterly. "Magnanimous, aren't you? You don't even know what it means to be under obligation to someone else, do you? You wouldn't be so free with your gifts if you knew." He stared down at his ineffectual human hands, cursing. "A man tries to make a little here and there, and the big-shots walk all over him." He shot a look of pure hate at Spencer. Spencer gave himself time to laugh at him once more. Then he left the apartment, hurrying to get to Giulia. The last he saw of the graceful man was the broken, huddled figure on the couch. He limped out of the elevator as fast as he could, knowing that he might be on his way to disaster, not only for himself but for Giulia and all the other individuals he was meant to guard. For he was not Watcher Spencer. He was only Westen Spencer, cripple, with some understanding at last of what lay behind the jammed door in his mind, but with the door still tightly blocked. P erhaps the graceful man could come and go as he pleased. Spencer still could not -- and he was growing gladder and gladder of it with every minute. Except for the latent power of that other individual within him, he wanted no part of their wonders. He hailed a cab, not caring about his money now, and sat tensely until they reached Giulia's apartment house. Giulia's and Tina's. Spencer grimaced. Now he knew how Giulia had been crippled. But that could concern him no more now than did the fact that it was four o'clock in the morning. He ran twistingly up the steps. Don't kill. Cripple. That was their technique. For if they killed the chrysalis before the individual within had given up the fight, then they were only restoring fresh weapons to the warrior. But if they tied him down -- if they walled him up in his own bitter prison... Giulia stood in the doorway. He stopped, looking at her, at the tracks tears had left on her face. "Gome in, Wes,' she said gently. Spencer stared at her. "How did you know I was coming?" "I knew. Please come in." He stepped into the hall, and she leaned against him, the slow tears coming down her cheeks. "Wes, Wes, Wes," she murmured, her trembling mouth just below his chin. "I knew you weren't coming, but I kept hoping I was wrong. I sat in my room, and waited, and waited, and I knew you weren't coming..." The voice lost itself momentarily against his chest. She tilted her head back. "But I waited anyway. Until now." He reached out and stroked the soft hair at the nape of her neck. "It's all right, Giulia, I'm here now. And I've got a surprise for you." He smiled as she looked up at him, the wonderful glow breaking through behind her eyes. "A surprise? What is it?" He shook his head gently and kissed the tip of her nose. "Not now. Not down here. Can we go up to your room?" She smiled, her lips falling into the remembered lines. "Of course." She put her arm around his waist, and walked up the stairs with him. He looked around as he stepped into her room. "You don't know anybody named Tina, do you?" he asked. She looked at him uncertainly. "Tina? No, I don't. Why?" He reached out and took her hand, with its ragged nails. "I didn't think so. I'll tell you about it, later." "All right. Now tell me about the surprise." He smiled into her deep eyes. "The surprise is something I am going to tell you about yourself, and about the world." He sat down on the couch, and she curled beside him, her grave, astonished face looking up at him. His fingers laced in hers, he began to tell her. " -- and that's why all these things have happened to us," he finished. "And that's why, though we're not really awake yet -- and if I don't know why, I care less -- we've got all these powers." He felt her tremble, and stopped. "What's the matter?" Giulia shook her head, and the slow tears began again, gathering in the comers of her upturned eyes and welling slowly down the sides of her cheeks. "I never understood before. I never knew. But now I can see it. I can understand why I sometimes do things without wanting to, why I know things when I shoiddn't. Why did I go driving last night? Why did I stop under the arch for you? Can't you see it, Wes? I'm a -- #. witch. Wes, I'm one of them." He stared at her in agony. So that was what haxmted her! "No, darling, no," he said. "You're not a witch. There isn't any such thing. And you're not one of them. If you were, I wouldn't love you -- I couldn't. And you couldn't love me." The sound of the words hung in the air, and he found time to wonder what sort of wonderful feeling it could be that made him so sure. 'Tt was only because you're so quick to feel things. It's just some special ability of yours, half-awakened." It was true, he thought. A sensitive enough human might tap into the powers of the individual he unwittingly sheltered. But Giulia shook her head desperately. "No; no, Wes. I never thought of it this way before, but when I first told Mr. Laban about it, he was frightened. He was concerned for me too, but he was more frightened. And -- and it kept getting worse. I could hear what people around me were thinking -- what men were thinking when they looked at me, and... and..." She buried her face in her hands. "Not always," she said past her wet fingers. "It would come and go. I began to see things -- like people who weren't people, who were only shadowy outlines with things inside them." So that was it, he thought. That was how the Watchers knew what to watch for. A special sense that disregarded the chrysalis and saw only the sheltered individual within. "Most of the time the things were quiet," Giulia went on. "As though they were asleep. But sometimes they were terrible, and moved and did things... Wes!" He held her tightly. "And then ... then my -- my familiar followed me home, and the next time Mr. Laban came he just looked at me and went away. He never came back." He would, Spencer thought savagely. No understanding of people. No caring. How had that long, ragged line of watchers ever managed not to break? How many had been little more than he, just humans with partially awakened powers who somehow kept the tradition alive imtil another genuine watcher came awake and gave them all the impetus to carry on a bit farther? And how many had had the powers, and never known where they came from, or why? "Your familiar "A dog. A little black dog. It's not a real familiar, of course." She smiled faintly. "I'm not really a warty old crone with a cauldron of spells. But I've had a little black dog for the last six years." He felt his muscles tense. Never once had the graceful man said that all the present chrysalids were human. And he'd had an artificial human chrysalis, created at will. If he could do that... A dog, he thought. A little black dog. "Where is your dog?" he asked, his throat dry. "Asleep in the other room." "Call it!" "All right," she said, wondering. She turned toward the open doorway to the other room. "Here, Princess. Come here," she called softly. Printrjj, he thought, and with complete expectancy, watched Tina come through the doorway. "Oh!" Giulia's hand shot up to cover her mouth, and she crouched against Spencer, completely white. "Hi, boy," Tina said. Spencer smiled -- a tired, sardonic grimace. "Giulia, darling, I want you to meet one of our enemies," he said bitterly. "But she looks like me!" "I know," Spencer said, his face tired, and older than it ever had been. "You've been listening, haven't you, Tina?" Something was growing inside him. "To every golden word, lad. Do me something." "Has it done you any good?" And still growing. Tina shrugged. "Some. Not much. But I've always had a small jump on you two pigeons." She laughed. "Both of you all tied in knots the way you are." It was almost grown. "That's not true anymore," Spencer said. He felt the alien rage gathering itself within him. "You're Princess?" Giulia asked in a strange voice. Spencer looked at her, and her face was set into an expression he would not have recognized if it had not been growing on his own. "Yep," Tina said. But her eyes were suddenly too white, and she was staring at both of them. "Then I'm a Watcher," Giulia said. Maim the stinking Insurgent, Watcher Spencer thought. Tina lifted one side of her upper lip, and the bright canine shone stark white in the lamplight. Suddenly, Giulia cried out. She folded her hands over her stomach, and the corners of her lips went pale. Watcher Spencer struck out at the Insurgent's chrysalis, trying to drive past it at the entity within. "No, Watcher!" Giulia cried out in her terrible Watcher voice. "She's mine!" Tina suddenly clutched her throat. Spencer sat imprisoned in his own body, watching the Watchers. So this is what its like to be a Watcher, he thought with that part of his mind that the battling Titan had left him. Waiting, and waiting, with the terrible patience of terrible rage, and then pouncing! Pouncing with such Wagnerian intensity! He laughed silently in the crannies of his leased brain. And still the battle went on. Then, Tina sobbed. Spencer .saw her suddenly double up, and heard Watcher Giulia's vengeful laugh. And then he saw Tina's dress begin to dance across her hips. Spencer laughed and laughed, while the two Watchers applied their wratiiful punishment, oblivious, in their entities of pure electrons and gulf-spanning minds, to the ridiculousness of what was happening. Heaven only knew what was happening to the Insurgent as an entity. But Tina, the chrysalis, was being spanked. And that was Giulia's doing. Not Watcher Giulia -- she, or it, was too preoccupied with her relentless attack on the entity within the chrysalis, too cold and ruthless ever to understand any sort of laughter but that of superhuman triumph. No it was Giulia herself -- human Giulia, gentle Giulia -- who took her human revenge on human Tina. Armageddon! Spencer thought. This is Armageddon! He rocked with silent laughter, and Giulia, too, was laughing. And Tina squealed and yapped. Human Tina? Oh, no -- for Tina's artificial chrysalis was shifting, melted under the fury of the simultaneous Watcher attack. Suddenly the illusion of human flesh and human form was gone -- and a little black puppy yipped frantically, clawing at tihe slightly open front door. Then the door pushed farther open, and the little black puppy tumbled outside and fled down the stairs, leaving a diminishing sound of panicked yipping behind it. Awake! Arise! Watcher Spencer, his superhuman mind linked with Watcher Giulia's, hurled out his ponderous summons. It hurtled around the Earth, touching seas and mountains, rocks and swamps, lakes and beaches, and the places of Man. Awake! In their chrysalids, the sleepers heard it. Heard it as they slept in men, in bats, in wolves, in foxes. And, somewhere, the graceful man heard it too, and slipped bitterly away from his artificial body, to await the coming of that individual who called himself, for now. Watcher Spencer. And the impalpable, invisible, weightless horde rose up, completed its journey, and was gone at last. Spencer looked at Giulia. Of all the former chrysalids, only they felt the weight slipping away. The rest of the human race just went on living. They looked at each other and smiled. "Well, thafs over," Giulia said, and laughed. Her light fingers traced the line of Spencer's jaw. "We're not carrying the Watchers around with us any longer. We're just us." "That's right. Just us. Just the human race and all the other living things the Earth has grown." He touched the firm warmth of her neck. He shook his head. "They were such a God-damned desperate bunch! So solemn. So relentless." "Wes?" "Yes, Giulia?" "Do you think the world'll be any different now?" "You mean, no more wars or slavery, no more shying away from people because they don't talk or dress or worship as we do? I don't know. I'm just a normal human being, I guess, after all. I don't much believe in utopias and pat solutions. But we might try going outside and giving a look. Maybe they've lowered taxes."    Time is the chrysalis of eternity . -- Richter what Is Your Science I. Q. ? answer, and you are very good if you can hit a score of #. The correct answers are on page #. #. Heat and light can traverse a vacuum, but cannot. #. In accordance with Einstein's field equations, what is the radius of the universe in light years? #. When light passes obliquely from one transparent substance to another occurs. #. What is the relationship of a Joule and a kilowatt? #. The term velocity connotes as well as speed. #. Tension, bending, twisting and shearing are four kinds of stresses. Can you name the fifth? #. Our local star system is moving within the Milky Way at a rate of miles a second. #. One of the two fundamental forces of the universe is gravitation. Can you name the other? #. The only difference, from the standpoint of physics, between radio waves, visible light and high frequency forms of radiation, such as x-rays, is in their #. What is the approximate speed of sound? I I . Bright line spectrum is formed by #. A dyne is a small unit of force which can be defined as of a gram weight. #. The constant for the expression of the quantum of energy is known as constant. #. What we call an hour is actually a measurement in space. Can you name the number of degrees of its arc in the apparent daily rotation of the celestial sphere? #. The mathematical factor which is the measure of the unavailable energy in a thermodynamic system is called #. How many angles and sides has a heptagon? #. Relativity reveals a fimdamental law of nature which states that the velocity of is the top limiting velocity in the universe. #. The rotation of Mercury's elliptical orbit advances how many seconds of an arc per century? #. Infrared rays are too to be seen by the naked eye. #. The shift of wave length in the spectrum of the star known as the "companion of Sirius" is known to astronomers as the Effect. The future enters into us, in order to transform itself in us, long before it happens. -- drainer maria rilke tors were gone, Miryam took the red capsule from under the base of the bedlamp and slipped it between her dry lips. Reason told her to swallow the capsule quickly, but instead she held it under her tongue, clinging, against her will, to the last few moments of life. She knew she was being weak, that she was still seeking hope where there was no hope, and she prayed to the ancient God of the Ghetto that the gelatin coating would dissolve quickly. Pain interrupted the prayer, spreading like slow fire from deep within her young body, where the unwanted child of Genetics Center stirred so restlessly, so impatient to be born. The white walls of her Center room blurred in and out of focus. Shadows merged together in brief, uncertain patterns. Lights flickered where there were no lights, and the darkness was so intense it had a glare of its own. At the worst of the pain cycle, Miryam bit down on her imder lip until the flesh showed as white as her teeth. She fought off temptation to crunch the capsule and put an end to all pain, all fear. No, she would not go that way. She would go in a moment of blinding clarity, knowing why, savoring the last bitter sweet second of her triumph. Illustrated by Paul Orhan With a subconscious gesture of had taught nursery school since esfemininity, Miryam brushed the caping from the Ghetto, dark, damp hair from her forehead, "Doesn't look a bit like one of and wiped the perspiration from her kind," another agent had said, her lips. putting his hand under her chin "Pretty little thing," one of the and turning her face to the glare Geno-Service agents had called of his flashlight. "No wonder she her, when she was arrested last fall fooled the Psycho and Chemico in the Warsaw suburb where she squads... Lucky for us!" "What's the matter, little one?" the first agent had spoken again. "Didn't you know we were coming? I thought all of you people were supposed to be telepaths... Or doesn't it work when you're asleep?" He flipped the covers off her trembling body and whistled. "Hands off!" the Geno-Sergeant had warned sharply. "She's for Center!" Now the capsule under her tongue was moist and soft. Time fled on swift, fluttering wings. Soon the horror would be done. But the stubborn spark still glowed, and Miryam allowed her mind to drift down the long, shining corridor to the room where the younger of the two Geno-Doctors was changing into a white coat. The older man, who wore the gold trefoil of Geno-Sar on his collar, tilted back in his chair. "She should be just about due," he said cheerfully. "Yes, Sir," replied the young doctor, sounding the proper note of deference for a man who communed daily with the political elite. "What do you think of her?" "Well, Sir, frankly -- I was surprised -- " The young doctor twisted muscular arms to button the back of his jacket. He had but recently come from the Genetics Sanitarium on the Black Sea, and his face was tanned deep brown. "From reading the weekly reports of your staff, I didn't know she was that -- that young -- " Miryam trembled with a hope she dared not recognize, but it was crushed out of her by the GenoSar's booming voice. "Not only one of the youngest -- but one of the very best specimens we've had to work with at Center! You read her psi rating?" "Yes, Sir. Seventy-two point four, wasn't it?" "Seventytwo point six! Absolutely phenomenal! Closest thing to a pure telepath our agents have ever turned up for us! This could be a big night for Center, my boy... A big night!" The young doctor shook his head to clear away the lingering image of a tragic, lovely face against a tear-stained pillow. Miryam was startled to find this image in his mind, and her pulse leaped again. In a carefully professional tone, the young doctor asked : "What was her rating after insemination? Did the emotional shock... ?" "Not at all! Oh, naturally, jdie was uncooperative in the tests, but pentathol and our cross-references gave us a true picture!" "And the spermatozoa?" "Best we could get! Refrigerated about thirty years ago from a specimen that tested forty-seven point eight." The Geno-Sar paused, and because a comment was obviously in order, the young doctor said: "This certainly could be a big night for Center!" The Geno-Sar snapped his cigarette lighter with an expansive flourish. "All the sciences have been taking a crack at psi -- ever since the last Politbureau directive gave it number one priority. You should have heard the talk at Sar-Bureau meeting this afternoon! The MathSar actually laughed at Genetics... told us to stick to our white mice!" The young doctor made a polite cluck of disapproval. "Those stupid mathematicians could learn something of heredity from their own ancients," the Geno-Sar continued, growing heated. "Think of Liebnitz, gifted at # -- Galois, a genius before he was #!" The Geno-Sar recovered his temper, and winked. "Of course, I didn't say that at the meeting -- the Bureau chief is very partial to Math -- but I did remind them, most pointedly, of the known data on inherited sensory differences between individuals. And you should have seen the squirming! Especially when I got into the taste studies and the phenyl-thio-carbamide tests! Then, when I told of Genetics research on sense of time -- sense of direction -- sensitivity to pain, sound and smells -- Well, the Chief was hanging on my every word! The Psycho-Sar became desperate to the point of rashness, and he jibed at me about our ancient master, Profim Lysenko." The Geno-Sar's head inclined slightly as he pronounced the name. "But the Chief himself gave the correct answer! He quoted from a Bureau directive which stated clearly that sensory characteristics, like any others, could well have been acquired in the first place, and then passed on through heredity! Oh, I tell you, it was a heartwarming afternoon!" The younger man had been paying him only half attention. "It's strange we should find some cases of psi among her people," he mused. "When I was at the University I always meant to study something about the -- " he hesitated and searched for the approved term, " -- the specimen races, but I never had time..." For an instant the Geno-Sar's steel-blue eyes narrowed, and Miryam was shocked to find him appraising the young man for possible heresy. She had always regarded the scientific mind as something remote, cold, but never as something that could commit a heresy. However, the Geno-Sar decided to table the subject. "Of course you didn't!" he boomed. "You couldn't have made such a splendid record without total specialization! Each to his own, that's how science has prospered under the benevolence of our party!" He glanced up at the clock. "Well, aren't we just about ready for this delivery?" M iryam drew back her mind. What a fool she was to go on seeking! The child resumed its inexorable turning within her swollen body, and she knew she could never give to the world a life conceived so terribly, so coldly, without love or passion or tenderness. Even in these final moments, with the gelatin melting under her tongue, Miryam shuddered with the remembered anguish of struggling up from the depths of anaesthesia to find herself bearing the seed of a child, from a faceless man who had died long ago. Often, during the carefully guarded months of pregnancy, she had wondered about that man, who he had been, how his talent had compared with hers. Miryam knew little about genetics, or any other science. The scientific mind had always frightened her, and she had feared to explore it. But she knew there was no truth to the folklore that psi was a characteristic of her people. She knew of only a few cases outside her own family, although within her family it seemed to have been a characteristic that had recurred frequently for many generations. Her father had cautioned her about selecting a husband, and pleaded with her not to flee the Ghetto. For the past three days, since the nurse had momentarily left the cabinet at the end of the corridor unlocked and unguarded, Miryam had known that she need not be concerned about the success or failure of this terrible experiment. From the nurse's mind she had plucked the essential facts about the potency of the red capsule. This knowledge, for all its loneliness, had been something to cherish, to press to her full breasts, as she would never hold that child of horror. Tears filled her eyes, squeezed in droplets between the closed lids. Tears because she was so alone. Tears of unbearable sadness and pity, for her people, for her youth and her young body, for the warmth that would be eternally cold, for the unnatural child that squirmed and turned, and would never cry. In a last forlorn gesture, in a final seeking before the darkness closed, Miryam let her mind stray out of the white room, out of the marble magnificence of Center. She let her thoughts escape on the soft breeze of the early summer evening. How beautiful it was, even here in the city, amid the science buildings that formed bright islands of light around the minarets and vaulted domes of Government Square. Even these awesome buildings were lovely in the purple dusk. Their windows were like scattered emeralds of light. How could there be so much beauty without compassion? So much knowledge without understanding? So much human genius without humanity? And what a battering of thoughts in the mild air around the centers of science! What a discordance! What a tumult of theories, each of them nurtured within its own walls by the zealous Sars. There were the Departments of Chemistry and Physics. There was the glass-walled tower of Astronomy! There was the Institute of Psychology, with all its many bureaus. And the new Electronics Building, alabaster even in the dusk. They were all there, extending in stately splendor along the main avenues, and along the park, where the gossamer mist was rising. How intolerant were the thoughts they radiated! How sure! Electronics said : "Quite obviously the answer to psi is in the electrical currents of the brain. Our newest electro-encephalograph has demonstrated... Chemistry said: "Solution to psi inevitably will be found in Ae chemical balance of the cells... Parapsychology said: "We must continue to ignore those who insist upon attributing physical properties to a non-physicd characteristic... And underneath this learned babble, Miryam heard the mothlike whispering of her own people, starving in the Ghetto, or hidden throughout the city, disguised, furtive, tense. Her mind came close to Government Square, and she cringed, as she had cringed all her young life. The somatics were unbearable. Hatred and fear, blind prejudice, jealousy, cunning, ceaseless intrigue and plotting, setting Sar against Sar, using Ae genius of each science, dividing and ruling. No, there was nothing left. No hope, no promise. This was the end of time. This was the night of the world. Withdrawing again, retreating into itself, Miryam's mind brushed the fragment of a thought. It was a half-formed thought, more a groping, more a question, than an idea. It was delicate, fragile, a wraith and a wisp. But it came to her as clear as the note from a silver bell. Startled, she hesitated in her withdrawal, and perceived the young Geno-Doctor in the corridor near her room. He had paxised by the casement window, and was staring out at the twinkling islands of light around Government Square. And as his gaze wandered moodily from Tech, to Psycho, to Chemico, to all the incandescent, kolated centers of genius, the idle speculation had formed. "Wouldn't it be an unusual view if all those bright islands were connected by strings of light... ?" Once formed, the speculation had fanned the ember of a thought: "Wonder if psi will build those strings of lights?" Then the young doctor turned almost guiltily from the window to meet the Geno-Sar coming down the corridor. And he said with crisp efficiency, "Fll check out #-A for delivery." "Good boy! I'll go on up and check the staff..." The Geno-Sar rubbed his hands together, and walked off, repeating nervously, "Two psi characteristics must be the answer -- two psi -- " "Maybe they are," the young doctor murmured softly. "Maybe they are..." D elivery, Miryam thought. The life within her throbbed and prodded. There was an ebbing of pain for a moment, and in that moment she saw with the blinding clarity she had sought that this child of hers might bring new hope to the world. That psi ability might be the answer to many things for (Continued on page # ) The Colonel was a career man; and knowing what would happen within his lifetime promised to be an invaluable asset... But he had never heard of that ancient legend of Faust... Illustrated by Ernie Barth another wrong number. Well, it was, in a sense -- but not the kind of wrong number I thought it was. The ringing signal burred against my ear in the usual way, then there was a click, and somebody said, "Office of Historical Research. Zon Twenty speaking." "Oh. 'Scuse me," I said. "I must have dialed wrong." That was euphemism -- misplaced loyalty, maybe. I didn't dial the wrong number, and I knew it. But high brass had installed a new automatic dialing system in the Pentagon as an economy measure, and it produced so many wrong numbers and entanglements that I think it actually must have cost more money in the long run than the old-fashioned live operator system -- but then that shouldn't surprise you if you've ever been connected with the military. I was about to hang up after my apology. The voice on the other end said: "Wait! Did you say -- dialedr "Sure," I said. "Then -- " and he seemed surprised, if not downright startled -- "what kind of a phone are you speaking from?" "Huh?" I said. "What kind? The regular kind. Phone, desk, dial, M-I -- or whatever the Army calls it." This time his voice went off like a small bomb. "The Army?' he said. "Sure," I said. "What's the matter with the Army?" And thought : Navy or Air Force type, no doubt. Our allies. Have to put up with them in the Pentagon. Have to put up with a lot of things -- even being Colonel Lawrence Boggs didn't save you from a snafu dialling system. I thought: somebody is out to needle armchair colonels this week. I'll play around with it for a while, maybe find out who's got the sense of humor. The voice said, "Look here, are you joking with me?" "Perish it," I said. "But this talk about -- about dial phones. About armies. Why, you sound like one of those historical tri-vids about the twentieth century!" I smiled, without too much humor, shook my head at the phone, and said, "Look, fellow, come off it, will you? I haven't got time to play games." I hoped he wasn't some general or equivalent rank in a pixie mood. "Wait!" he said. "Wait -- please -- don't think off! Tell me, what year is it? Where you are, I mean." "What year? It's #, of course." "Why," he said, "this is remarkable!" "It is?" "Do you know what I think has happened? A quantum inversion." "Beg pardon?" I said. "Karpo Sixteen predicted the possibility just the other day! Listen, my friend, let me ask you just a few questions -- " Then the mechanical voice of the operator cut in. It wasn't a real operator, of course, just a recorded voice, part of the new automatic system. These voices gave all the standard phrases and usually at the wrong time, the way the system was working. The worst of it was you couldn't argue with them or curse them -- at least you always felt a little foolish afterward if you did. The operator's voice said, sorry. Your time is up!" "Now, wait!" said my communicant, his voice fading a little, "Don't cut us off! Don't think off yet!" Again: "#'m sorry. Your time is upr And after that a click, and after that silence. I jiggled the hook a few times. No result. I shrugged. I hung up and rearranged the papers on my desk and went back to work, forgetting for the moment the party I'd been trying to call in the first place. And forgetting the odd conversation I had just had. No -- not quite. Not quite forgetting it. Queerly, it clung to my mind. What had he said his name was? Zon Twenty. Sounded like that, anyway. Odd name. Of course I still thought it was a gag of some kind. Yet it bothered me. Zon's manner, his tone of voice had been so convincing. What he had said suggested that in some queer way I had managed to place a telephone call into the future. But as a sane, normal, recently promoted colonel, I knew this was impossible. At lunch I was still thinking about it. I ate in the officers' mess on my floor and steered my tray through the line. I taw, among other acquaintances Major "Clipper" Moskowitz at a far table, and remembered that he was a great science fan, always talking about rockets and reaching the moon, and that sort of thing -- we had one argument about why a rocket works in a vacuum, such as space, and he hammered the table and drew diagrams and quoted Newton, and I'm still not convinced. Anyway, I went over and sat next to Clipper. " 'Lo, Larry. How's it?" he said. "Routine," I said. "Latest request for overseas duty turned down. I'll probably die in the Pentagon with my pencil still behind my ear." We talked of such things for several minutes. "Clipper," I said finally, "you're the G.L.E. on this future science stuff -- " "The what?" "Greatest Living Expert. Latest Pentagonese. Tell me, what do you think of the possibility of ever being in touch with the future?" "You mean time travel?" "I guess that's what you'd call it." "Time travel is nonsense," he said. "A logical absurdity. By definition, time is a series of infinitesimally small moments in succession. Once a point in time is established, it can't be changed, any more than energy can be destroyed." "I didn't say anything about changing anything. I was thinking about -- well, talking with somebody in the future,' "Just as paradoxical," he said, shrugging, and taking a huge bite of braised beef tongue. "If you go into the futme -- or talk to the future -- the future affects the change, through you. In other words, if you can't go back into the past, neither can people from the future. And it's inconceivable that such a thing wouldn't make changes. Maybe only small ones, but they'd multiply in time. Thou canst not change a flower, without troubling of a star That's Francis Thompson, You step on one spider today, and you affect the evolution of spiders, the ecology of all other things in the distant future. By a simple act like that you could destroy or create a whole species to come." "My head swimmeth," I said. "All I want to know is -- He wasn't even listening to me. He enjoyed spouting this kind of thing. "Of course, it's theoretically possible for you to witness events out of the past, without being party to them. If, for instance, you could travel away from Earth at more than the speed of light, overtaking the light waves of an event -- say, the Monitor and Merrimac fight-" "Or the Battle of Gettysburg," I said, loyal to the core. " -- you could look back and see it happen. The futmre? I doubt it. Unless in some way time and space actually curve back upon themselves, as some think. "Uh huh," I said, and drank my coffee and finally left Clipper Moskowitz. after that I did manage to forJget about Zon Twenty temporarily. It was a busy week. The draft quota had gone up, and Personnel Planning had worked out new criteria for classification, and I had to study these to apply them to analysis. This won't make much sense to you unless you've worked in a military headquarters yourself. I worked. I had a dim idea that if I worked hard enough ' somebody would favorably regard one of my requests to get sent overseas. I've got to explain something right here. I don't want anybody to get the idea I'm a hero type -- a professional volunteer. But I'm a career officer, and overseas duty is the quickest way to tactical unit command, which is important on the record. The lack of it has kept many a perfectly good colonel from getting his first star and making that final big step. So I worked hard, and of course, sent in another request for transfer, this time under the provisions of a different set of regulations. And I didn't think about Zon Twenty again until about a week later, one afternoon, when the phone rang. "Personal Analysis. Colonel Bog-" He didn't even let me finish. "Well! I've found you again! The man from the past!" "Oh, no," I said. "Don't tell me. Not Zon Twenty -- " "Yes, it's I, of course! Seems we've had another lucky accident, and been connected again. I was despairing of it for a while. Now, for machine's sake, don't go away this time! I've got to talk to you!" "It's your dime," I said. "Dime!" He pounced on it. "That was a monetary unit, when you had money, wasn't it?" "Look, mister -- " "You haven't guessed what's happened, have you? We have it pretty well analyzed at this end. But we didn't really suppose your technology would be equal to it back there." "Look, just who are you, and where are you?" I said. "My name is Zon Twenty, as I told you. I'm an historical technician in the Office of Ancient Research in Washington, the capital of the planet. Earth. I'm an Earthman myself, of course. My job is to prepare studies of ancient civilizations such as yours -- " "Now, wait -- what kind of a gag is this?" "A gag? Oh -- that's the ancient term for a joke. Good! I'll make a note of that!" "Come on. Who is it? Did Clipper Moskowitz put you up to this?" "Oh, dear," said Zon Twenty, and I could hear his heavy sigh. "I was afraid you wouldn't be able to grasp the situation. I'm going to have to offer proof, I suppose. Look here -- exactly what date is it where you are?" "I told you. #." "I mean what month and year?" "It's August #, # -- and I think you know that as well as I do." "August #d. Just a minute... we'll make a quick tape on the cyb, here. Ah, yes, here we are. August #d. All right. The nearest date of significance is September #st. On the date twenty-one of your so-called nations reached -- or should I say will reach -- a new trade and tariff agreement in the U.N., and this will eventually lead directly to the free nation federation in -- " sorry! Your time is up!" It was that blasted recorded voice of the mechanical operator again. "Hey! Don't cut us off!" I said. "Hello? Are you still with me? Look here -- I'll try to call back! It's difficult, but I think I can!" said Zon Twenty. "'m sorry! Your time is up!" And again the click, and silence. This time I didn't forget Zon Twenty, neither quickly nor easily. If it was a gag, it was a beauty: crazy and elaborate, and the acting was superb. If it wasn't a gag -- well, I couldn't yet quite believe that it wasn't a gag. A week streamed by in a sea of paperwork. My latest overseas transfer request came back disapproved. Then, on the morning of September #nd I opened the newspaper and saw the headline: I read the story. It was essentially what Zon had predicted -- or remembered -- or whatever you want to call it. I was confused now. That day I didn't work very well. I couldn't concentrate. I am not a deep thinker, and have no illusions that I am. But one idea presented itself, starting as kind of hypnotic little glow in the bottom of my mind, and this grew until I could scarcely think about anything else. Put it under the heading of temptation. Ask yourself if you would have been able to resist. Or just forget all the moral and ethical implications, and accept that I was tempted in this way. If I could be in touch with this Zon character -- if he really was from the future, and an historical expert, at that -- he could tell me all sorts of things that were going to happen. I could then either predict them or otherwise adjust my actions to fit them. I could go up so fast it would make Caesar's career look like a misfit reservist's. I could -- Well, then I started justifying and rationalizing. I could do my country all sorts of good. I thought along those lines for a while, and presently even managed to convince myself that my original purpose had been altruistic all along. Of course I tried to get in touch with Zon Twenty again. Over and over again I dialed the number I had dialed the first time I had become connected with him by apparent accident. I dialed random numbers. I listened to a long and boring dissertation on permutation of numbers by Clipper Moskowitz in an effort to devise a system of hitting all possible combinations. There were an awful lot of possible combinations. M y phone rang again nearly ten days later. It was Zon. He said, "Oh, there you are! I'd about given up! Look -- the quantum inversion is swinging back to normal! This is the last time we'll be able to talk! So we've got to make every moment count!" "Sure " I said. "You bet. Only I don't exactly get it. I don't understand just how all this happens. If you'd explain -- " "That's not important. Briefly, we use telepathic induction for message selection. That's why I was startled when you mentioned the ancient dial phone. And of course we don't have armies any more." "Yes, but -- " "Listen, Colonel -- what was your name? Never mind. You can be most valuable to me in my research. You can supply details about your time that simply don't exist any more -- " "Don't exist? Don't you have movies, recordings, magazines, all that stuff?" "Of course not. They were all destroyed in the Final War." "The what?" "The FingJ War. You'll hear about it soon enough. If you survive, that is. Only three hundred thousand did, out of the entire population. They were the seed of our present civilization." "Hey, now, wait a minute! What about this war? When was it? When's it going to be, I mean?" "There's no point in your asking," said Zon. "You can't change it, you know. If you could change it, I wouldn't be here. My world as I know it wouldn't exist. The fact that my time does exist proves, therefore, you never changed it. Now, if you'll just calm down -- " "Calm down?" I shouted it across the centuries at him. "How can I? How would you feel? Look, this Final War, as you call it. Is it going to be soon? You can at least tell me that, can't you?" "All right. Soon, as all time is reckoned. In your lifetime, I would say. Now, I suggest that you adjust yourself emotionally and accept what is inevitable. The best thing you can do is answer a few questions I've prepared." I took his advice. I calmed down. "Questions? Well, Mr. Zon, or whatever your name is. I'll tell you what I'll do. I'll make a bargain with you. I'll answer your questions if you'll answer mine. I'll tell you what's happening here -- anything you want to know -- if you look in that little file of yours and tell me what's going to happen in my time. A dead?" He was silent for a moment, and at first I thought we'd been cut off again. "Hello? Zon? You still there?" "Yes, I'm still here." His voice had become oddly quiet. "So it's the old Faust legend all over again, is that it?" "I don't know what you're talking about," I said. I didn't -- then. "You just answer my questions, and I'll answer yours. Mine first." "All right," he said. "Very well." And I started my barrage. When would the Final War start? He told me. How would it start? He told me that. Who would be the belligerents, and what weapons and techniques would be used at first, and what new ones would be developed? He knew. Where would the major campaigns be fought -- how many troops would be involved? I got the whole story. I scribbled furiously and put it on paper. Afterwards, he asked his questions. They were innocuous, compared to mine. He wanted to know about taboos and marriage customs and slang expressions and education and eating habits and articles of clothing. I told him. I was in the midst of an explanation of the game of Bingo, of all things, when there was a sudden whooshing and crackling in the earpiece of the telephone. "Hello? Zon? Still with me?" "Yes -- but I think the signal's going out. This may be the inversion passing! We probably won't be able to talk again. Hello? Do you still hear?" "I do. Look -- one more thing before we go. You said this dictator -- the one everybody hated so much -- survived the final series of blasts. He and his staff. Where were they? Where were they when the blasts came?" "In a country at that time called Canada. Little place named Resolution, on Great Slave Lake. They'd dug in there -- very elaborate underground installation." "And the date you gave me is correct?" "As far as I know. You're determined to be in that place at that time, I suppose." He seemed amused. "You can say that again," I said. There were more rumblings of static on the line. "Well, since you're so determined," said #n Twenty, "one more word of advice. The dictator and all his followers were afterwards imprisoned by what populace remained. Small wonder, since they were mainly responsible for all the carnage. It was a pretty horrible thing. They were slowly and most savagely tortured continuously for nearly two decades. So if you mean to be there, at Great Slave Lake, I suggest you arrange to be on the right side." "Don't worry," I said. "I'll arrange it somehow. Larry Boggs is going to live through this, if anybody is -- "What's that? What's that you said?" "I said I'm going to live through this -- "No, no, the name. Boggs. Is that your name?" "Certainly that's my name. Colonel Lawrence E. Boggs, United States Army, and -- " He was laughing. He was laughing loudly, uproariously, and, I thought, hollowly. The background noise in the receiver had been steadily getting worse. Now it swelled, like an angry sea. Interference of some sort snarled and crackled. A sick feeling began to grow like fungus in my stomach. Suddenly his voice came through again. He was still laughing. "Generalissimo Lawrence E. Boggs survived all right Colonel, he -- " All the noise cut away suddenly. There was a pinpoint of silence. Then the mechanical operator: "I'm sorry! Your time is up!"    T he men of the ocean are not "Objectives, hopes, fears -- " said like the men of the land, nor Jim Talbot thoughtfully. He lifted the men of space," said the Spacehis glass and stared into the eyes man. "The men of the ocean are a of the girl. For a fraction of a secrace apart." ond the veil almost lifted. Then "That's stupid," said the girl, she bent and sipped her drink, pre"Any sociologist will tell you that senting the top of her sleek, glossy all mankind shares common obhead to him. jectives, fears, hopes -- " He looked past her out the winIllustrated by Paul Orban The ocean floor had served a generation. Now Old Cady was dying, and the men who had worked the kelp beds and sea mines wanted him to die alone... dow of the bar in Long Beach. The out to the kelp-beds and the seafog was in now. A wavy red neon mines, unless you want to walk, sign across the street flashed: and midnight on the ocean floor Vessel -- Midnight, A few ghost is no place for a lady sociologist figures swirled through the fog to from Iowa." the entrance of the pier. He was afraid she would say "I "You've got ten minutes," said can take care of myself." Instead Jim. "Then it'll be too late to go she said: "I have to take the early morning rocket back to Ames. It's my last chance." "Take my advice," said Jim. "Don't go out on the Floor tonight. There's trouble out there. I know the men of the ocean and I can tell. They're restless tonight." "I've read all the books," she said. "I've talked to the loc professors and examined the kelpdocks and the sea-mine facilities -- I've done everything but go out on the Floor. I planned to do that next week, but -- " She opened her bag and pulled out a yellow telegram which she handed to him. It said that there had been departmental changes in the Sociology Department back in Iowa and her presence for the coming semester was requested a week early. It looked very authentic. He handed it back. "So you're going out on the Floor tonight anyway!" She stood up. "Yes. Thanks very much for the drinks, Mr. Talbot. I hope I haven't bored you with all the talk about sociology. A spaceman just in from Mars probably expects something more lively." She blushed and turned rapidly away. Jim merely bowed his crew-cut head and smiled politely as she moved off. Then his eyes swept the room, a faint frown appearing on his forehead. There were a few tourists like the girl. There were a few spacemen, loud as usual, loud and noisy as their profession demanded. And there were the men of the ocean, far too many of them, with their white, pasty faces and bloodshot eyes, their stony expressions and their sudden, awkward motions as they forgot, temporarily, that they weren't moving in one hundred feet of water. The men of the ocean weren't drinking tonight. Jim's frown deepened. He saw the uniformed figure of a copper from the Underwater Police, watching the room as he was, and recognized the reserve insignia. If the reserves were out, every single man on the Underwater Squad must be on duty tonight. A low, mournful whistle sounded. Last call for the Catalina Submarine. Suddenly it stopped, and for a second in e silence you could hear the boom of the breakers, the saddest sound in the world to Jim. Across the room he saw a seaminer tip a signal to a kelp-cutter and he saw the cutter slide out of his chair, throw a coin on the table, and disappear into the fog behind the figure of the girl sociologist from Iowa. Uh-huh! Jim moved to the door, spoke to the reserve. "The boys are restless tonight." The reserve looked at his spaceman's uniform in surprise. But then spacers were frontier men like Floormen and he nodded and spoke as insider to insider. "You said it. They're all over the Bottom out there." "For what?" "Old Man Cady's come home," said the reserve. "Three weeks ago they dragged him out of his kelpbeds and took him to Long Beach Memorial Hospital to die. But he said he'd come back to the Floor, and he did, and the Fbonnen think it's great." "The men of the ocean must be getting sentimental," said Jim. "They weren't in my day." "You a Floorman?" the reserve asked in surprise. Jim grinned. "I was bom in Donovan's kelp-patch," he said. "But I got the hell out. It was too wet." The reserve grinned at the old half-joke. "It's wetter than water tonight," he said, giving back a bromide. "If you're thinking of a return visit, I wouldn't go out there until tomorrow if I was you." Jim didn't answer. Instead he went out into the fog. In times of fog it was better, but you could still feel and smell and hear the city, the insane babble and crash and rush of it. The city that ran from Long Beach south to Old San Diego and north to Old San Francisco. That ran inland through Los Angeles to the Sierras and over the mountains and across what used to be the plains. You could drive from the West Coast to Denver these days, they said, and never be out of sight of a man, building or advertising sign. Jim wouldn't know because he didn't like the land and its cities. There weren't any cities in space -- yet, nor under the ocean -- yet. And that's where you had to go if you wanted to escape this deafening twenty-four hour roar. Even with the men of the ocean having a ball for themselves out on the Floor, it would be piore peaceful than the City, he thought. At the Submarine ticket window the girl from Iowa -- Helen Lindsey, wasn't it? -- was still arguing with an Underwater cop. "Lady, there's a big celebration going on out there tonight, and when these guys cut loose it ain't safe for inlanders. Like I told you, you can't go out." "At least let me buy a ticket to Catalina. The ride on the Submarine should be safe if I don't get oflF." The cop shrugged. But as she turned to the window the ticket man who had been selling tickets Helen looked annoyed; then she turned and melted into the crowd. Near Jim a tourist spoke to his wife: "These crazy ocean people. They've been crowding the Submarine on every trip since six o'clock just riding back and forth, the man said. If we're going to Catalina, we'd better take a surface boat or fly over." The woman snorted. "I don't see why they don't build a bridge. It's just an island, twenty miles out." J IM shouldered his way through the crowd, keeping his eye on Helen. "I am very altruistic tonight," he thought. "I'm sooo-oo altruistic." As he expected, she pressed right up to the gate when it opened and flashed a bit of colored paper, probably a hotel check, and went right on through with the crowd. Once she got on the Submarine, she could always pay her way and one more never mattered. Prefty determined to be on that Sub, for an innocent lady professor. Then Jim saw what he'd been expecting to see. The quick flash of a fish knife in the crowd. Those fish knives were apparently as sharp as ever, for the man sliced the handle of the girl's bag as he jostled her and somebody else stepped on her toe and her purse was gone without her ever realizing it. Jim recognized the face of the kelp-cutter from the tavern. He grinned. If you were caught on the Sub without either a ticket or money, they held you for the police at the other end. The men of the ocean were going to great pains to make sure that Helen Lindsey stayed on the Sub, but she didn't have a ticket to begin with and he doubted that her money was in her purse. The men of the ocean would have to do better than that on this girl who was so anxious to join their celebration. Some celebration! Old Man Cady was dying out there tonight on the Floor and the men of the ocean were having a celebration to see that he died alone. That made sense when you considered that Old Cady owned three-fourths of the ocean floor between the mainland and Catalina. Jim got on the Submarine too, using the fake ticket routine, and the busy guard passed him through. The locks slammed, bells jangled and the mighty vessel submerged, its squalid interior crammed with the soft-talking men of the sea, its grimy portholes flicking wizened lights out into the gloom of the Floor. Down below the pilot picked up the Kelp-cutter's Walkway and the propellers churned; the Sul marine shook all over like an old lady with the ague and pushed through the water. Jim grinned to himself as he recognized the same furnishings of fifteen years ago, the same plush seats only a little more grimy today. It was too crowded to sit down. He stood at one end of the corridor near the Ladies Room and watched the underwater markers as they moved along. Meredith's Mines -- Buoy Office, Goldstein's Kelp-farm, Entriken's Mineral Buoy, Strong's Mineral and Metal Supply, Rancho San Kelp, The Forks -- He was expecting some action at The Forks, and he wasn't disappointed. Helen got up to go to the Ladies Room. She pressed right by him without seeing him, because he leaned behind a miner. "Going to Catalina?" asked the miner, jostled into conversation. "Catalina Spaceport," lied Jim. "Takeoff tomorrow." "Most spacemen travel on top to to Catalina," said the man accusingly. "I had a leftover ticket," said Jim. "Excuse me." He stepped in front of the "Ladies". He was aware that he wasn't the only one interested in Helen's ploy, as he thought of it. Half of the Submarine eyed the door. Even the Conductor who had gotten half-way up the aisle, punching tickets, called out ineffectually "Hey, lady, your ticket -- " Here the aisle was momentarily clear. The Submarine's reputation for non-cleanliness assured Jim that Helen was in there alone. He put his shoulder to the door and waited for a lurch. He counted on the lurch. The ride was always jerky because the Third Mate always took over after the trip began so the pilot and engineer could enjoy their twenty-year old card game. Nothing had changed. Jim got his lurch. He broke through the door, because the fastenings were of the feeblest, as he well remembered. Helen had her diving suit on, all but the helmet. She had hooked it out of the bin marked Emergency. Her next step would've been to slip into the escape hatch. There were two things that were always firstrate on the Catalina Sub despite the rest of its faults. One was the diving suits, the other was the escape hatches. At least three times a year the Sub conked out and you had to go down to the Walkway and finish your trip under your own power. Helen looked at him in utter astonishment. Jim thought of the long reams oi explanations he would have to make and realized how little time he had, with every sea-man out there waiting to see what happened, and took a shortcut. He belted her on the cheek and then once in the solar plexis, because unless you had practice in knocking people out, how could you be sure? She folded and slumped obediently on the floor. He flipped her coat over her to hide the diving suit, cradled the helmet on her stomach and picked her up. He shouldered out of there just as the puffing Conductor broke through the last of the crowd. "Lady fainted,'" he threw over his shoulder and kept right on go"This is a helluva night," groaned the Conductor. "Gad, she isn't going to have a baby, is she?" "This I doubt," said Jim. He and the Conductor stood alone in the narrow walkway behind the Crew door, a catwalk that led to the Pilot's compartment. Anxious white faces peered through the slit of glass, but the men of the ocean didn't try to follow, figuring she'd be taken to the First Aid room. Jim carried her out of range of the door and laid her on the catwalk above the pounding motors instead. He turned to the Conductor. "Here -- I'm no doc. You take a look." While the anxious old man bent to peer at the patient, Jim silently asked for forgiveness. Then he brought his heavy hand down hard across the exposed neck of the white-haired old man. It wasn't too funny, he thought, as he dragged the old boy out of the way. Still, he had gained priceless momentary solitude. They were out of range of vision of the men of the ocean and the Crew up ahead didn't know there was trouble. Three steps down the corridor was another emergency locker. Jim grabbed a rubber suit from it and slid into the suit with the practice of twenty years in space and under water. He flopped llie bowl helmet on his head, lifted Helen's helmet off her stomach where he'd carried it and adjusted it on the now-writhing body. She was coming to now. Good. He picked her up, looked for the red light and found it. A dozen steps, half-dragging Helen and he was on the platform. He tripped the lever and the floor section cantilevered around and dropped them in the tank. Ten seconds later, they were flushed out on the floor of the ocean. When it came to escape hatches the Crew had it all over the passengers on the Catalina Submarine. He watched the big metal fish ooze away from them in the water, its feeble port lights bravely dotting the darkness. What with this and that and the other thing, he had about ten minutes before the men of the ocean would know of their escape, and then the fun would really begin. Because tonight the men of the ocean weren't letting any outsider within range of Old Man Cady. And the dark-haired girl wasn't heading any place else, despite all the talk about Iowa, sociology and the other phoney baloney. While they were sinking to the Kelp-cutter's Walkway, Jim wondered how many agents, male and female and children the Real Estate Foundation had sent out tonight and how many would get through to Cady to buy up the ocean floor before he died. Probably none, he thought as his feet touched the ooze of the Floor. Not even Helen. Not if he knew the men of the ocean. dreamworld. The equalizing pressures of the suit gave the body feel of normalcy even in a hundred feet of water, but the closed-in, drifting lightness was a stirring memory from the old days. Not the free lightness of space but an immersed lightness in which the swaying, deep currents took over and managed you. The silence was aweinspiring after the roar of the continuous city that was America and after the noisiness of space. Jim appreciated the quiet for a bit. Spacemen always shouted when they talked because what could be noisier than a spaceport? Spacemen shouted because even in the deep outside quiet of space they were enclosed in a noisy capsule where bells rang, a thousand large and small motors hummed and throbbed, burped and gurgled, depending on their health. Where cargo was always being banged around to make finer weight adjustments, orders, news, music and time signals came whining out of the ship loud-speaker, men chattered and the maintenance crews banged their buckets and mop handles, and hustle and bustle were the antidotes for vast space solitude. This was a silence and darkness almost womb-like. This was a lazy giving over and slow movement in a ghost-world, where the dim light from the miner's lamp in his helmet showed flashes of rock and kelp and the sandy floor, but where he was sheltered and protected from the nerve-cutting hustle of civilization. This was one reason why the men of the ocean were different... Two phosphorescent steel cables moved slowly through the water just above the sandy floor, one eternally winding its way towards Catalina, the other to the mainland, like an underwater ski tow. Jim hooked onto one of the ties and fastened Helen's belt hook to another. She struggled for a bit, then she became quiet and he figured her senses had fully returned. Every hundred yards or so along the Kelp-cutter's Walkway there was a tiny dome. Jim set the hooks for "detach" and as they swept into the structure they were oozed off the line. He grabbed her flailing hand and sank to the upper floor of the dome, kicking the lock panel without even thinking. They were deposited rather crudely on the white, soft sand of the lower dome with a quantity of water which immediately drained away, and he took off his helmet and she hers. "Well!" she gasped. "I've been wooed and won before, but never quite like this." "I saved you from arrest," said Jim. He explained about her purse, watching her narrowly, but she kept up her role-playing, shrugging off her loss. She seemed more interested in the dome and studied it curiously, the black gashes of portholes and the institutionally inadequate # watt light bulb in its no-steal wire cage. It was a comfortable little bug-wallow with breathable air, ten feet across, resting on the ocean floor. On one wall was a pay telephone. On the other a half-dozen motor propellers in racks. "Sorry about the rough stuff," said Jim. "It was one way to get out on the Floor," she said without hostility. In the tight rubber suit she looked little and lost. She drew up her knees and hugged them with her hands, staring at him with a bright-eyed look. "The only way," said Jim. "You were smart enough to know that you didn't dare get off at the regular underwater stops without being followed, but too dumb to know that the escape hatch routine attracts just as much attention. Now you can level with me. Why did you come out on the Floor tonight. Miss Not-from-Iowa?" The eyes remained bright and innocent. "Just to say I'd been on the Floor and walk around a little." Jim got up without a word. He fumbled out his all-purpose credit card, fed it to a wall slot and removed two motor propellers from the racks by the hand-straps. He strapped one on himself and showed her how to adjust hers. "Come on. Miss Iowa." She followed him to the lock, grinning through her bowl helmet at the embarrassing addition to her pert behind. "The subject of hundreds of dull jokes," he said, "but practical. Let's go. They slipped out on the Floor, talking on radcommunication now. He showed her how to work the motor and they moved off under power until they began to feel kelp fronds slap against their suits. She stopped him. "Where are you going?" He pointed behind them to the faint, glowing dot that was the dome they'd just vacated. "The men of the ocean are guarding all the domes tonight. We were lucky to have entered that one when the guard W #I S out working the line. We can't go back. So we might as well return to Long Beach under our own power, now that you've had a look at the Floor." "I'm not ready -- to go in yet." The trouble with half-trained agents is that they don't know the full dangers. And this was no time for lectures. The guard patrolling the Walkway would soon be back to the dome of Station # and instantly notice the missing propellers. He would also probably have the flash on their escape from one of the ocean men on die Sub. First he would pulse a warning to the Kelp-cutter's headquarters, probably Cady's No. Three mine. Then he would start out after them. Meanwhile in the headquarters the silent men would be gathered around a map, plotting the movements of the outsiders who had invaded the Floor tonight. Jim had seen the hand-radar network in operation before, and a minnow couldn't get through from the mainland if the men of the ocean didn't want it to. Anybody they picked up close to shore would be sent back to the land safely enough -- but those they found back here in the kelp in the inner defenses -- Jim felt his heart quicken. He had to know whether the girl were an agent or not -- and he had to know fast. He put a strangle hold on her and cut her air intake to almost nothing. "Talk!" She was strong, but Jim was thinking of the radar-net and the spear-guns and the determined men on the Floor. They sank to the bottom, sliding in the ooze. He maintained control. "All -- all right," she whistled finally. He knelt above her, his miner's lamp on low peering anxiously into the glass helmet. He could only make out the eyes, but the look of innocence was gone. "I was hired by the Real Estate Foundation to try to reach Old Man Cady," she said. "Now what?" "Then the rumor is true -- that the Foundation got the Old Man to sign an option on his Floor property while at Long Beach Memorial." "I guess so. Don't know. I -- I'm from Fullerton. I really am -- Si sociologist. Junior College. I'd done some work on the Floor and its problems. I can wear a suit and dive. They offered me a lot of money. I needed the money." "Why?" "Why?" she laughed shortly. "What do you care?" "Give me your motive." "I wanted five thousand to go study the red ants on Venus," she spat out over radcom. Jim stood up. The men of the ocean were coming now. You couldn't see them nor could you hear them. But over the years he recalled the faint rhythmic vibrations of the seat propellers that the men of the ocean used. As a kid, he could've told how many they were. Now he only knew they were coming. "Let's move," he said. They moved off into the kelp. The seaweed was a darker mass in the darkness and looked like an impenetrable wall. But the jungle was only a growing mass of plants, rooted to the bottom, leafing up with bulbous floats, reaching for the surface where it had to have the sun, like #iny plant, for photosynthesis. They brushed into the clogging, choking stuff, the skin effect of their suits transmitting the feeling to them. There were timnels in the kelp, but you had to know how to find them. Jim found them, marveling that the girl from Fullerton would believe she had a chance on the Floor. She couldn't have known he would follow her from the shore to help. Either she was to meet a confederate at The Forks or her motive was one of desperation. Presently he would have to know which. Meanwhile, he led the way, staying close to the bottom. Sometimes, he dived to a rock and burrowed against it. Sometimes, he left the timnel in the kelp to slide and twist through the kelp forest itself and emerge in the tunnel again. He was making it a little tough for hand radar, he hoped. Helen followed, helpless at the moment to argue. They were in the center of the kelp fann now. A faint beep signal from the detector in his suit began to guide him. The signal meant human habitation. In the absolute darkness and sliding nothingness of the water it was good to know that there was a farm home buoy ahead. Suddenly there was a faint vibration above, a different sort. A metal charge of CO# cut past them as their silent pursuers caught a flash of them. Jim instantly cut his helmet light; he had already made Helen douse hers. He saw the direction of the tow-line paying out behind the spearhead; and dove into the kelp mass at a tangent, cutting off his propeller motor. They sank, nested in the mass, motionless. He spent the waiting time in clearing her propeller of the seaweed that die constantly tangled with, and they bumped body to body in a silence that was so deep he could hear the thump of his own heart. The hunt on the ocean floor was different. Silence -- the sudden aggression -- and if you were smart and didn't swim in panic, half the time the hunter couldn't find you. A novice would've spurted into a swim of death, but Jim remembered the old ways and forced the discipline of inaction on his nervous system that cried out to be moving. At last sufficient time had passed so that they dared to move again, no motor vibrations being discernible. And now -- They broke into a clearing. The farm home buoy loomed dark in front of them, its anchor line going to the bottom, but floating easily, its majestic weight swaying with the currents. Jim went right to it, forcing out thoughts of what couldVe happened in fifteen years. He broke into the entrance lock and pushed the bell desperately. "Who?" said a voice, and he almost fainted. His luck was running tonight -- "Jim Talbot," he said. There was a silence from the wall speaker. Helen took off her bowl and stared at him in whitefaced puzzlement. "Jim -- Talbot," whispered the feminine, metallic wall-voice. "For Christ's sake, Bea, let us in!" cried Jim. T he farm home buoy swayed and rolled seventy-five feet below the surface, twenty feet above the Floor. The little woman in slacks and a short hair-cut who faced them stared at Jim as if he were a parolee from death. Jim stood there, buckling his knees to get used to the long-forgotten motion of the farm home buoy. Helen who had no sea-legs, collapsed in a chair, puzzled. "So you've come back," said the woman in slacks. "All the way. Did you -- is he -- " "I married him," she said. "That was twelve years ago. We have a child. She's sleeping upstairs." She gestured at the ceiling. "Your parents?" "They died." Jim let out a long, slow breath and sank into a chair. "It's good to know Ed lived," he said. "After fifteen years. The last time I saw him, he was floating in the kelp with six inches of my spear sticking in him." "It could've been different," she said. He felt sorry for her with the lines in her face now, and the grayfringed hair. But she still had that delicate, fragile beauty. And maybe she felt sorry for him, for he had aged too. But in the end the heart couldn't speak. The heart can never speak except in the phrases of melodrama. "Could have been different", "So you're back." He thought of the hours and hours of unspoken interior monologues he'd had with the image of her, and here she was, and here he was, back on the Floor again, and as usual the time was short, as it always was throughout life, and he couldn't break down in front of a stranger and say "My God, how the hell have you been -- " "How's kelp-farming?" he asked instead. "Horrible," she said. "It's done and over. The kelp-price has broken forever. They're spore-farming up there now, with those spores the spacemen -- you spacemen -- brought back to Earth. Kelp-cutting is done. We fed the world for a generation and they don't need kelp "What's the kelp-price?" "A nickel a hundredweight," she said. "God in heaven." There was a faint stir below. "You've got to pass me over," said Jim. "I'm on my way to see the Old Man and you've got to pass me over." A spasm of uncertainty crossed her face. "Jim, you don't belong any more. Ed's still a kelp-cutter. I'm his wife. He's out tonight, working the net, trying for a few more hours to save things. All outsiders are enemies tonight." "Kelp-cutting's done. Sea-mining's done. The people of the land need your space to live in, Bea. It won't matter if Old Cady dies without selling his land to the Foundation. The world needs it. The world'll get it." uncle sells out to them," said Bea bitterly. "Is that why I've got to pass you over?" Helen sat up with a gasp. "I won't get anything at all. The Old Man doesn't care much for his relatives that deserted the ocean." "The option they tricked him into signing while he was in the hospital expires tomorrow," said Bea. "He may not live that long. Then, in his will, the land goes to the Underwater Association, they say. In perpetuity." she sighed. "The Association will never give up the land to the Real Estate Foundation. Like Ed says, let 'em build houses in the Atlantic. Why don't they try the Gulf of Mexico?" There wasn't time to argue. Jim took the little woman in his arms. "You've got to pass me over, Bea," he said desperately. A strange voice came at them from the intercom. A firm voice asking for admittance to the home buoy for a search. Bea shuddered. "Jim -- I can't hide you!" But Helen was on her feet. From her inside pocket she had a wallet out. Jim saw something green then and started to cut Helen off. "You fool, don't -- " But Helen pushed Jim aside. "How much?" she said. "Here's five hundred -- no, a thousand!" Bea blushed. Jim was about to snatch the money from the table and throw it back at Helen, but Bea picked up the bills. "It's been hard, very hard," she said, her bright eyes studying Jim's face. "Where can we hide?" asked Helen. "She took the money!" Jim whispered in the darkness. "I don't blame her. With those kelp-prices it must be rough, feeding and clothing a family." In the darkness Jim tried to swallow his bitterness. For the first time he truly felt the desperation of the men of the ocean. But hadn't kelp-foods always been doomed? There had always been something a little wrong with them. Seaweed had bulk and was rich in minerals washed down by the rivers of the land, absorbed by the ocean plants. Enriched by vitamins and proteins, it had carried mankind along but was tasteless. Spore-farming yielded rich, sun-grown crops today. The kelp-cutters had suffered for many months now. Could he blame Bea for snatching the money? "I take it you shot a man and had to leave. Otherwise you'd have married her," said Helen. "I would have." "Don't blame her for not waiting either," said Helen. "In life you make the best of what exists." "I don't," snapped Jim and she dianged the subject. "Are we safe here?" "There's a secret place on each farm home buoy," said Jim. "That's where tte kelp-cutters keep their money, because there aren't any banks on the ocean floor. The men of the ocean would never ask the location of anyone's house safe. We're in it. We're okay." Helen stirred in the darkness. "Jim -- why are you helping me? I mean, if you don't stand to gain from the sale of the land." "Red ants on Venus." She was silent. Then she said slowly. "All right. I do have a good reason for being on the Floor as an agent of the Foimdation. My husband worked for them. He took some money to speculate. The Foundation manager will prosecute unless I can help him on this option business. I can't afford to fail." "Why didn't your husband come himself?" "Because," she said softly, "he was stabbed when he tried to get in to see Old Man Cady at Long Beach Memorial Hospital, day before yesterday. He may live and he may not, but he won't want to, if I fail." Jim listened for the sincerity. It was there. "And you?" she asked. Faintly, as if far away, he could hear the pursuers arguing with Bea. He decided he would have to level with Helen. "I've been faired by the Spacemen's Retirement Fund," he said. "We want the Floor. If I can get it, they'll make me manager of the whole operation." "Why the Floor for retired spacemen?" "What else to do with the old men of space?" asked Jim. "They can't stand the rigors of the new space colonies. And they can't find any land on the monstrous cities of Earth, except the poorest of reclaimed desert land, which is a hell of a desolate place to end your life. But under the ocean it's different. Quiet. Everybody is equal. A yoimg man can't move much faster than an old one. They can raise a little kelp, do a little seamining to bolster their pensions. The low prices won't matter to them. They can go into town on Saturday, and the rest of the time play cards, drink and think. Spacemen don't mind wearing pressure suits and they rather prefer solitude or they wouldn't be in space. The only thing they really want to get away from is hustle and bustle -- and the Floor is perfect for that." "Maybe we can work out something between the Foundation and the Retirement Fund," she said. "Maybe we can share the Floor." "No," said Jim. "This was my project, and I sold it to the Retirement Fund. It only makes sense if I can buy all Cady's land. Some for buildings, the rest for investment. Otherwise the Retirement Fund will invest in a land establishment or a space-station which cost less." "So your job as manager depends on getting all the Floor land?" "Yes," She was silent. "Something doesn't fit. You have the knowledge of how to get to Cady. You have the incentive -- a life-time job, perhaps even a dream fulfillment. That fits because as Manager of the project you'd become the biggest man on the Floor, and everyone wants to return to his place of origin as a success. But you don't need me at all. So why have you helped me?" Jim didn't answer. She laughed. "Something tells me there's skullduggery ahead. But I warn you now, I intend to fulfill my mission." "Of course," he said. H elen was his diversion. It could only be a matter of minutes now, he thought as they swam along after leaving Bea's place, before she would realize why he had helped her. And then? When they found Cady's Number Three Mine, where the old man was probably hiding, Jim would need her. She needed him to get her to that spot. Once there, only one of them could succeed, and they were more dangerous to each other than the common enemy. He tried to convince himself that her position was hopeless compared to his. How would she get inside the mine? But he knew there were ways. Once in the mine, how could she reach Cady? Answer: Cady would insist on seeing any agent good enough to break the net, for Cady was that way. Once saw Cady bow could she, in the midst of hostile men of the ocean, get his signature to extend the option? For that matter, how could he? He smiled to himself. It could be done. It could be done, because Cady was smart, Cady knew the old Floor economy was done and would have signed before, except that the men of the ocean captured him in a moment of sickness. But then, he reasoned, why wouldn't Cady have already signed, despite agents and options? He knew the answer to that one, too. Like all old people, Cady thought he would live a Iktle longer and it would be a disagreeable task to sign away the Floor when it had been his whole life -- he would wait imtil the last possible moment unless he were pushed. A mission was practical and could succeed. They had to get through, and yet only one of them must reach Cady. They spoke carefully of neutral things as they moved through the water. How skin divers in the old days had started the trek to the ocean. How the opening worlds of atomic science had allowed mankind to flourish until they literally carpeted the world's land with their myriad lives. How the land broke down as a food-supplier, and the sea rescued it, and now the spore-farming of space and the mining of space had made the economy of the Floor obsolete. Already, the Hudson River in New York pointed the way to the new uses of the ocean. The famous deep-bottom apartments were complete with movies, stores, hospitals. The rest of the continental shelf would follow and finally the true ocean depths, and the agrarian age of the ocean would be over. There was no doubt about it when they came to the Old Man's hiding place. The men of the ocean had sacrificed subterfuge for strength, in their direct, lazy way. He was in Cady's No. Three mine as Jim had expected, because it was the largest. Around the great metal mound that moved along the ocean floor was the fire-fly twinkle of the lights of some two dozen slowly-circling guards. They had floodlights on the exterior, turning the dark water to a sullen green and making the clean-swept white sand floor glitter. Jim and Helen sank behind a submerged rock to study the terrain. "Now, Jim," said Helen, we've got to settle this thing. I know you plan to use me for a diversion so that you can get into the mine, but I can't allow it." "I've brought you through the radar net," said Jim. "You couldn't have made it on your own. In fact, I've saved your life, and I think I can find a way for you to get out with a whole skin -- " "Jim, Jim, don't you see my need's the greater? To you this is simply a way of proving yourself. To Bea -- and the rest of the people on the Floor. That you can be the biggest man on the Floor. You can always go elsewhere and do better. You showed that once when you left the Floor and Bea." "I had to." "You didn't have to shoot a man to prove your love for her. That was overdone. You don't have to come back as the biggest man on the Floor, in charge of this wonderful new project. That's overdone, too. You must have a romantic notion of yourself." "The spacemen need the Floor," he said in hot defensive anger. "Maybe they do. But you won't be any more successful with your project if you succeed than you were in your courtship with Bea, or with your space career, because nobody cooperates with somebody who always plays big-shot." "Big-shot!" he laughed bitterly. "Little shot, Helen. My time in space is almost done. If I don't put over this project, I've only got a few years of down-hill space travel left in me." "You left the Floor to find something," she said. "You didn't find it. Now you're back, still hunting. What is it, Jim Talbot?" There are things too deep to say. He remembered his brother, ten years older, who had left the Floor for space. Who had come back to their drab farm home buoy wearing a uniform and medals. Who had come back with a beautiful land girl as his wife. Jim had been ten then, and his eyes grew big when Buck Talbot talked about the far-off places, the frozen, awing silences, tli strangeness and wonder of the deep velvet space sky. Jim remembered the size and shape and color of the medal his brother wore on his right breast "For Valor Beyond the Call of Duty". He remembered how awed his playmates had been with Buck and his land girl wife. And in die prime of his manhood, Buck had gone back into space and disappeared forever, the girl along with him, and left behind an image that Jim, at least, had never forgotten... "What is it, Jim Talbot?" she asked. "Nothing," he said. "I don't even have a choice like you," she said. "I've got to get through to preserve what little I've got. If you won't help -- " She gave him a backward shove. One minute they were muttering, face-plate to face-plate. The next she had shoved him off balance and fired at him with her underwater pistol, which she must have stowed into her suit way back on the submarine when she was alone in the "Ladies". Her inexperience betrayed her. She missed. In a swimming swoop he did a backward spin and came up with the short spear gun he had acquired at Bea's. There was a rising, impatient anger inside of him, a sudden fury at her assault on his motives. He fired from the belt and he had had years of experience with guns. She took six inches of metal without a sound and floated there, spread out, her weight bumping her down towards the ocean floor, now that she was immobile. She gave one convulsive jerk and drifted, and the line from the gun twitched with her dead weight and the current's sway. He couldn't tell if he'd killed her. He only knew that the moment for her to provide a diversion had come, not in the way he planned, but it was here, and the rest must be action. The group at the mine picked up the violent motions on hand radar and sped for the spot. He broke the spear gun line free and shoved his helmeted head in the loose ooze of the ocean floor, getting rid of the propeller. He let the water arrange his limbs -- he made like a rock. How many thousands of times as a kid had he made "rock" in the Floor games, the underwater version of hide and seek? Though the men of the ocean could see twice as well in their medium as the land-men, he knew he was only a wavy shadow on the ocean floor compared to the spreadeagled figure floating free. Five of the guards gathered her in and pushed her towards the mine. They didn't see him because at the moment they weren't looking for him. Jim boldly swam behind them at a short distance, his sea-lamp off, safe in the temporary confusion. As they approached the mine, he looked for the suction inlets on the bottom, sucking in the mineral-rich ooze of the Floor as the entire dome structure traveled its way to Catalina and back. The mine was working. No man of the land would dare invade a mine via the silt tunnels. No man of the ocean would expect to get away with it. Jim let the others get ahead of him and dived ; he found the strong flow of the intake. There was a horrible moment while he was pressed with the hard-flowing mud against a filter screen, the pressure crunching at his body then he broke the screen. He was sucked into the silt intake. The secret of not getting stuck in this passage, no bigger than a man's body, was to keep moving, and he held his empty spear gun between his legs and fired off round after round into the soft mud, taking advantage of the backthrust of the gun to keep him moving. He ended up in the settling tanks with a plop, buried in mud. By now instruments in the mine would show that a large, foreign body had broken the screen and passed into the tank. They would investigate. Instead of trying to surface, Jim burrowed in the mud, beating down his claustrophobic fears of the thick stuff, reminding himself that it was only another medivim slightly thicker than water. He knew the position of the waste trap on the bottom of the tank and found it, feeling the suction at the bottom pulling him down, to be ejected again when the tank was flushed. He went on down into the flush canal. Good. Their instruments would now show that the foreign body had passed out again. He put his rubber fingers to the wall, wedged himself tight and closed his eyes to wait. This time he'd have to be good. But then he was always equal to the task, wasn't he? The girl, with all her need to win, had been inefficient and bungling, and he who, according to her, was only trying to play big-shot was the success. He grinned sardonically, and then remembered he'd had to shoot her and lost his grin. He forced extraneous thoughts from his mind. He wasn't inside the mine yet. He tried to visualize the control panel. The tank must be almost filled by now. He tried to think himself right at the point of the solenoid, ready to divine the switch of the motors from intake pumping over to flushing action. Again his experience paid off. He had done this once before when he worked for Schneider's Deep-Sea Mines as a young man, and a foolish, visiting tourist had got himself sucked into the tank and Jim had had to go in and pull him out. The intake cycle ended. He had ten seconds while relays clicked, the mass was read, and the computer decided what minerals to retain, what to flush out. Jim made the supreme effort then, going back up the flush tunnel into the sediment tank itself, burrowing up through the weight of the mud. He had three feet to go and he barely wriggled out of the opening when the flushing started and the sea water roared in, and the tank began to swing to separate out the metals it wanted by centrifugal force. It was a wild ride, but not too bad if you didn't mind being thrown around on the hard metal walls like a paper clip in a vacuum cleaner. In the rhythmic, spinning action the heavier metals settled out to the collecting pans and the waste silt began to pour through the flush outlet. Jim waited until the tank was nearly empty and the whirling action slowed to "idle". Then he threw up his feet, struck open one of the "reach through" hatches and squirmed out into the mine proper, falling to the floor in exhaustion. He had not been detected. His entrance had been noted by the instruments on the inlet side. His exit had been noted on the outlet side. The machine had absorbed a two hundred and eighty pound rock and ejected it again. The instruments had noted the loss of the screen and replaced it at the end of the cycle, but they had no way of recording his return from the outlet hatch because foreign bodies, once in the flush tunnel always obeyed the laws of force and gravity and went on out. Thus you could fool a machine as easily as a man, if you had more knowledge than it did. Jim grinned weakly to himself. Another factor helped him. Helen, the diversion. The men of the ocean certainly wouldn't be bothering about instrument chart-bumps while they had the excitement of the girl to occupy them. Jim went upstairs to the main room and eased through the door. T hey had laid her on the low observation bunk, looking out the glass plate over the ocean floor where you sometimes sat to watch and guide the mine as it bumped its way along the bottom. In the old days you could spot the slowmoving mighty black sea bass and put on a suit and go out spearfishing while the mine lumbered along. But there were almost no fish any more, between the mainland and Catalina, due to Floor civilization. A few small kelp bass and deep water ling cod were all that had survived. There was a doctor on duty there, naturally, and he was bent over the girl. They had taken off her suit and he had some kind of tube stuck in her chest. Draining her lungs of the blood from his shot, decided Jim, growing cold all over. The men of the ocean stood around, hang-dog, equipment dangling from big hands, their eyes soft, their white faces frowning. Though there might be a dozen bodies floating in the kelp tonight, a wounded enemy and a woman -- that was different. He shouldered his way boldly through the crowd to her and looked down. Her cheeks seemed sunken, and the eyes were bright. He thought her mind wandered, but she looked directly at him. "You -- made it." "I always do." She moved her hands. It cost effort but she had, suddenly, a paper there. Behind them the men of the ocean stirred and muttered and the doctor looked up sharply from his equipment. "My need -- is greater," she said. He couldn't refuse to take the paper. It fell partly open. There was a snapshot inside -- of two kids. He stood there, his back to the ocean men, feeling hot and cold, staring into the dying eyes. Her ploy, he decided, was a very good ploy indeed. She smiled faintly as she saw his defeat. He turned around to the men of the ocean. "My name's Jim Talbot," he said. "I'm a nephew of Old Man Cady, and I'm just back from space. I want to see him." A tall man raised a spear-gun. "My name's Ferris, and we don't remember you, Jim, not at all. The Old Man doesn't remember the ones that have left the Floor." "Don't bubble me. Oyster-head," said Jim, recognizing the man and remembering the old nickname. "I've licked you before and I can do it again." Ferris raised his gun. There was a silence while you could hear the tortured breathing of the girl. Then she screamed, and she didn't have to do it, but in that final diversion Jim came up with his muddy spear gun and flung it underhanded at Ferris and knocked the other's gim away. He darted for the door of the Old Man's apartment as he remembered it and the uproar started. But it didn't last very long. There was a commanding clang of an alarm bell, and the door swung open and a man rolled out in a wheel chair. "For the love of God," piped a thin voice, "what's going on here?" The men of the ocean fell back before the wizened old man in the wheel chair. The doctor cried out in protest "You must stay in bed." The old man pounded on the metal floor with his cane and shouted in a quavery voice. "Shut up, everybody." Tliey shut. "Now you," said Cady to Jim. "Your nephew," said Jim rapidly, eyeing Ferris who had recovered his gun. "Jim Talbot, Ed's son, back from space on an errand." "Welcome back," said the old man drily and pointed to the bunk. "And she -- " "She is -- was -- an agent for the Foundation, trying to get through to you with a contract for the Floor. I helped her." Ferris sprang forward with a cry "No contract!". He went for Jim, but the old man's cane tripped him and spread him on the deck. "You always were a fool, Ferris," said the old man. He looked around the room, his aged, redrimmed eyes reminding Jim of an ancient rooster's. "What the hell's wrong with everybody? You want to starve forever? Even your own goddam wives don't want to see the Floor ruined. Look at you -- kelp-cutters and miners. You used to hate each other's guts. You used to fight like madmen about whether a patch of ground should be mined or farmed. Now you're friends. You fight the Real Estaters, and you'll end up friends with them, because the old way's done on the Floor. "'Course I signed the option. They didn't trick me in the Long Beach Hospital. I always meant to sign the option and the contract to save you fools a piece of living. Only my special bodyguard with Mr. Ferris in charge showed up and rushed me back here before I could finish the deal." The old man paused. "When you get old, you get a little tired, so temporarily I had to let you have your way and bring me back here, I figured we'd talk it over later; but all you do is lock me in a room and shove medicine down my throat." He made a gesture. He tossed a hand spear-gun to Jim. "Now Jim, lad, you can give me some help with these fools, before they kill me with medicine and their own foolish fears." Jim took the gun and grinned, but the men of the ocean stared in shock at the peppery little man. "For fifty years I've run the Floor," he lectured in heat. "I never did anything but what was right for all of you. Gave you credit. Helped you build farms and mines and farm home buoys. Sold your products. Whenever one of you went broke, I took over your land so that no outsiders could come in, and I kept you on, at a disastrous percentage that didn't help my pocket, by God! My rewaid for keeping you going -- you kick me in the tail. But I'm going to save you once more, just the same. Jim, where's the agent's contract?" Ferris started to protest but Jim forced the spear against his throat and Ferris stopped moving. Jim found the paper on the floor and flipped it to the old man who smiled up at Ferris. "Senile Old Man Cady," said the old man. "Doesn't know nothing, does he. Oyster-head? Listen to me, under this contract you'll all get enough money for your various equities to either go into the apartment building business or take your cut and move out beyond Catalina and start a new farm or sea mine. This is a present from me and I don't care which you do. Now before I sign I want to ask one thing -- Anybody here who's made a profit on farming or mining the last three months?" There was no answer. The old man nodded and smiled. "Permit a senile old man one further question, boys. What the hell are you going to do if we don't sell this land and get some money? Mr. Ferris -- any ideas?" "We'll find new uses for the kelp to save the farms," said Ferris. "To save the mines we'll cut metal prices to meet space competition and hold on. We can make it, boys, if we can hold on." Cady nodded. "Very good. Thought of the same thing myself a year and a half ago. Took the problem to CalTech and a couple of other research outfits. Paid a research and marketing men in the United States say it can't be done, but Mr. Ferris here has advantages they don't. He never finished Floor high-school. Anybody else here want to string along with him? Be glad to give you your land back clear, even though most of you owe me plenty on it." Nobody stirred. But Ferris had another shot in his locker. "How much do you make on this deal, Cady?" he asked. The old man smiled. "Plenty," he said. "I'm just senile enough to still want to make a little dough, while you're six months behind in all your payments, Ferris. I intend to go on making money as long as I live. Anybody that doesn't want to make money -- vote for Ferris. He'll save the Floor for you, if you want to eat kelp three times a day and wear seaweed clothes for the rest of your lives. Here's your last chance, men. After all, the Foundation can buy sea land further up the coast and they won't keep the offer open forever." The old man lifted the pen to sign. Then he dropped it. "No, by God, I won't sign unless everybody agrees. Even Ferris. The men of the ocean have always stuck together and I plan to keep it that way. Talk to him, some of you." Ferris looked slightly dazed. The men of the ocean moved up on him, muttering. "What's the idea, Oyster-head?" "What gives there?" "What's to use for money?" "You wanta ruin us?" "Oh, I'll go along with the crowd," cried Ferris Weakly. "Go ahead and sign. I just wanted to make sure it was all on the up-andup. Chief, that's all. And I don't like to see this lousy Spacer here making dough off us." The old man chuckled and signed the contract. "Then you should've talked to me, instead of slapping me into the hands of the doctor and shutting me up with thermometers and medicines," he said. "As for Jim and his friend -- the Foundation hired 'em. Let the Foundation pay 'em. Once a man leaves the Floor he isn't a part of my family no more." The old man flung the contract at Jim and then he wheeled up to the bunk where Helen lay. "It looks like the Foundation will get off cheap this trip," he said softly. He took the blanket and pulled it over the girl's face. The white, thin hands patted the still figure. "A nice-looking girl, Jim. Too bad." Then with a thoughtful frown the old man wheeled himself back into the bedroom and closed the door. The men of the ocean broke out into a babble. "Boy, that was close," said a sea-miner who had spent twenty-four hours in trying to prevent the signing. "Like he says, the Foundation might not've signed with us if we'd held off much longer." Heads nodded in agreement and the men pressed around Jim, begging to have the honor of signing the contract as witnesses. That, thought Jim, was real salesmanship. He let them fight over the contract, turned back to the still figure on the bunk. He pulled back the blanket and studied the dead face. It was girlish in its relaxation, but the worry lines of the mother-provider were there and an aura of competence he hadn't noted before. Yes, she would forgive him for his shot that ended her life. She had understood better than he, that she couldn't make the mission alone. Once he had begun to guide her, she knew that she must win him to her cause at all costs, and the cost had been high indeed. She had correctly judged that she couldn't win him except by finding and using his weakness -- his need to make the heroic gesture. All of his life he had made the gesture in the manner of his big brother. Buck Talbot. With Bea years ago on the Floor, in his space career, and on the day he had stalked into the Retirement Fund squabble and played strong man with his solution. And in the end Helen had allowed him to play hero for two kids in Glendale whose future would now be secure. No wonder there was a half-smile on the dead lips. He pulled up the blanket and went to draw himself a black cup of coffee, winking back the tears of sadness. He looked up and saw, for the first time, a teen-age youth who had been staring at Helen's body and was now staring at him. The features resembled Ferris, and Jim figured it was Ferris's boy. The lad came up with adolescent awkwardness, compulsion-driven but shy, his eyes shining on Jim's uniform now that he had shed his diving suit. "What's it like out there, mister?" he asked. "What's space like?" Jim put his hand on the lad's shoulder. "Son, it's just about like every place else, a lot of fun and a lot of dull waiting in between." But the lad refused to downgrade his illusions. "You're a space captain," he said in awe. "You run a space ship." Then Jim did what Buck Talbot should've done for him, years ago. "It's sixty feet long," said Jim, nodding. "It's got a lot of machinery and four other guys besides myself. We carry freight and in between times play cards, and I tell the boys what it's like under the ocean and they think it must be pretty wonderful down here." The lad looked puzzled and the glamor slipped out of his eyes. "Oh," he said. He turned away. Something stirred inside Jim too. The ghost of Buck Talbot was laid to rest at last. He had done the thing that had to be done for Helen, for Old Cady, for the men of the ocean and for the land people. He had even done a little something for Ferris and his son. And through it all he had done nothing for himself, nothing at all. This was the role he'd always yearned to play and he had played it to the hilt. Done nothing for himself? No -- he wouldn't have to make the gesture any more, and his was the greatest reward of all, self-knowledge, a guide for the rest of his life.    The fairest thing we can experience is the mysterious. It is the fundamental emotion which stands at the cradle of true art and true science. He who knows it not, can no longer wonder, can no longer feel amazement, is as good as dead, a snuffed out candle. -- Albert Einstein Illustrated by Ed Emsh until life do us part Its a long life, when youre immortal. To retain sanity youve got to be unemotional. To be unemotional, you carCt fall in love .   woman was dying. Anne Tabor lay limp and pale, her long, slender limbs making only shallow depressions on the mercury bath which supported her. Webb Fellow stood over her awaiting the effects of the sedative to relieve her pain. His title was Doctor, but almost everyone in this age had an M. D. certificate with several specialties to his credit. Webb Fellow was simply one who continued to find interest and diversion in the field of physiological maintentance. He stood tall and strong above her, lean-bellied, smooth-faced and calm appearing, yet he didn't feel especially calm. As the agony eased from Anne's face he spoke softly. "I'm glad you came to me, Anne." She moistened her lips and spoke without opening her eyes. "It was you or Clifford -- and Cliff hasn't practiced for a century or more. It's -- it's quite important to me. Webb. I really want to live. Not because Vm afraid of dying, but... "I know, Anne. I know." Everyone in Chicago knew. Anne Tabor was the first female of that city to be chosen for motherhood in almost a decade. And in the three days since the news had flashed from Washington, Anne Tabor had generated within the blood-stream of her lovely, near-perfect body, a mutated cancerous cell that threatened to destroy her. Mutant leukemia! "Just relax, dear. We have the whole city of Chicago to draw on for blood while we work this thing out." He touched a cool hand to her fevered forehead, and the slight motion stirred the golden halo that her hair made on the silvery surface of the mercury. The word, "dear", echoed strangely in his ears once he had said it. Her eyes had opened at the expression of sentiment, and now they were wide and blue as they examined him. A tiny smile curved her pale lips. "Did I hear correctly?" "Yes, dear." He repeated the word deliberately, and for the first time since his student days he felt the web of his emotions tighten and twist into a knot of unreason. She mustn't die... not now! Her smile widened with her look of mild amazement. "Why Webb, I do believe you mean it!" "You have always been high in my affections, Anne." "Yes, but -- it's a long life. Such a long life!" That damned phrase again! The essence of sanity, they called it. The cliche of cliches that underscored this whole business of immortality. Be not concerned for the frustrations of the moment. All obstacles are transient -- all obstacles and all emotions. The price of immortality is caution, patience, temperance, Deep personal attachments lead to love, love leads to jealousy, jealousy to un-saneness, insanity to violence, violence to -- " All he had said was that she was high in his affections, but no one spoke of such things any more. When one did, it was considered that more than conventional promiscuity was involved in his intentions. He turned away abruptly and studied the dials that registered her blood-pressure, pulse and metabolism. Incredible how even women three hundred years old remained sensitive to the slightest sign of infantile passion in their men. And more fantastic yet, that he, Webb Fellow, of the original generation of immortals some seven hundred years old, should find the destructive spark of possessiveness still alive in his semantically adjusted nervous system. Mechanically he noted the systole and diastole lines on the revolving chart and ordered an attendant to administer whole blood. Before he left her he turned back for a moment. "It shouldn't be more than # hours, Anne, and I promise you there won't be any impairment of your maternal capacity." He was startled to note that tears welled into her eyes. "Thank you, Webb. Clifford was worried that I might be disqualified." "Nonsense! Clifford hasn't kept up on things." He strode away without further comment, but as he stepped from surgery into pathology he was troubled. Why was Clifford so worried about her? Did Clifford think that Anne would choose him to father her child? The thought struck like a snake. Before he could block it the fangs were deep, and the venom of adolescent jealousy raced from brain to endocrines to blood-stream, poisoning his whole nervous system. Its a long life! He resorted to the old antidote himself, despising his weakness as he breathed the words. They came out as a sigh. He discovered that he was searching his memory to determine whether he or Clifford could lay claim to Anne by seniority. Seniority? What damned nonsense was that? Anne had traded back and forth between Clifford and him for at least # years -- with uncounted, trivial alliances with how many other men? But the others didn't count. It was he and Clifford whom Anne preferred, just as he and Clifford had discussed on countless occasions Anne's perpetual attraction to them both. Anne was Clifford's favorite, and he'd made no secret of it. "Over here, Webb. We have it!" It was Porter, the head staff pathologist holding out a small vial of crimson-clear liquid. "This ferric-protein salt should cure our famous lady quite quickly. It played sudden hell in the culture." "Oh, yes? Fine. Thank you, Porter. Thank you very much!" The narrow-shoiildered pathologist gave him a second look. "Certainly. Don't mention it." He paused then asked bluntly, "Did she name you for paternity?" Webb managed to hold the vial steady to the light, but his voice was a shade too taut and high. "Not yet -- that is, we haven't discussed it. It's a possibility, I suppose," "I suppose," Porter mocked gently. "You with the highest geneticdesirability rating in the State, give or take a couple of counties." Yes, there were a couple other genetic rating as Webb Fellow, and one of them was Clifford Ainsley. The obvious question thrust itself upon Webb for the first time. Was that why Anne Tabor had seemed to concentrate her favors upon him and Clifford? Had she actually anticipated the eventuality of being chosen for motherhood, and had her criterion for male companionship been simply a high genetic rating? Ifs a long life. Even with such unlikely odds against the contingency, he supposed any qualified female secretly nurtured the hope that someday -- With the inexplicable tension mounting in him he passed the vial along to an assistant with instructions for administering it. Anne would be in no condition to discuss the matter for another day or two. But he must know. He must know whether she had already chosen Clifford. He slipped into a light streetjacket, caught an express to topside and engaged a taxi. His finr was poised over the destination dial before he realized with a start that he had forgotten the five-digit number for Clifford's address. It had been that long since he had called on his old friend. Friend? The concept seemed suddenly strange. How long since their friendship had actually dissolved into an unacknowledged rivalry? Nonsense. He and Clifford had both been uncommonly busy with their respective professions. And since Clifford had branched from medicine into robotics, their paths and interests had simply diverged. Alternating almost weekly between the two men, Anne Tabor had kept each more or less informed of the other's activities, but somehow he and Clifford had ceased looking each other up. The directory gave him Clifford's number, and he dialed it. The small vehicle lifted quickly, slipped into the invisible traffic pattern and began applying the dialed codeaddress to the electronic grid that cross-hatched Chicago like a mammoth waffle. As traffic cluttered ahead on one particular striation, the taxi banked smoothly and rightangled to the next parallel course and proceeded. Neat, safe, fool-proof. Perfect transportation within proscribed geometrical limits, Webb thought. An infinite number of routes from one point to another -- like the course of a human life -- but all within certain proscribed limits. It's a long life. The course of a man's life could be considered a passage with infinite possibilities only if he were allowed to backtrack occasionally. Was that what he was doing? Had life grown so dull that he was seeking the diversion of immaturity again? ImmcArtality. Was it really so important? Once there had been a time when love, open, unashamed love had been accepted as one of life's strongest motivations. And it wasn't just a feeling of jealous possessiveness. There was a feeling of mutuality in it, a tenderness, an unselfishness and closeness of communion between man and woman. How had this exalted condition become debased into the casual association that now existed between the sexes? Debased? That was a loaded term. What was the matter with him? Anne Tabor was a lovely, desirable creature, but no more lovely, no more desirable than a hundred other females he knew. An odd, almost unique feeling of shame swept over him as his cab sank to the landing strip on Clifford's apartment building. He must conceal his state of mind from Clifford or be judged a complete imbecile. prise." Cliff's face was entirely without emotion. "Anne! It's about Anne, isn't it?" "Anne will be fine." "Good, good! You startled me, standing there in the door like a messenger of doom. I thought for a moment -- well, things wouldn't be the same without little Annie, would they?" They had moved into ClifTs apartment, and Webb shrugged out of his jacket. The spacious quarters and expensive appointments reminded Webb of Clifford's wealth. "The robot business must be thriving," Webb remarked. "Anne didn't mention such luxury over here." "The girl is tactful, my friend. Tactful, sweet, intelligent." Webb looked up quickly. He had seated himself, and Clifford stood before him in a stiff, almost challenging pose. "Am I welcome here?" the physician asked bluntly. "Certainly, certainly. We'll always welcome you here. Nothing need be changed just because Anne is to have a child. Nothing, that is, except the customary observance of monogamous convention until the child is bom and raised." A pound of lead sagged in Webb's stomach. "Then -- Anne has named you for paternity?" Clifford's slender, well-made body lost itself in the precise center of an over-size chair, he looked at Webb thoughtfully. "Well, practically. We were discussing it the other night when she had the first symptoms of this attack." He rubbed his hairless chin. "Why? Did you especially aspire to the noble station of parenthood?" The lazy sarcasm was salt in the wound. With difficulty, Webb kept his face cxpresiionless. "When I heard the news, naturally I gave the possibility some consideration. That's why I came over here." "I see. Anne didn't tell you." "She was in considerable distress when they brought her in. I -- I didn't ask her." In spite of the raven-black hair and youthful face, there was something about Clifford that Webb didn't like, a hardness, a lack-luster indifference verging on boorishness. The thought of losing Anne completely for more than eighteen years to this man was more painful even than Webb had anticipated. Impulsively he said, "For old time's sake, Cliff, will you do me a big favor?" The engineer stared at him and waited. "Take a vacation. Disappear for a few months." The dark eyebrows remained in a straight line. "And run out on Anne? You aren't serious." I am. Clifford laughed without smiling. "You'd better head for hormone harbor and take yourself a vacation, old man. You're becoming senile." "Then you won't withdraw?" "Of course not. You're asking more than a favor. You're asking me to offend Anne. These things are important to females." "It's important to me, too, Cliff." "Well, I'll be -- " The .smaller man rolled to his feet and put his hands on his hips. "I never ffiought to see the day when honored Elder Webb F#Uow would come muling around like a sub-century freshman. Of all the anachronistic drivel!" "You see?" Webb said eagerly, "It isn't important to you at all. Why can't you do this for me, Cliff? I -- I just can't stand the thought of being without Anne all those years." "Relax, Webb. Its a long life. Anne will be back in circulation before you know it." He paced to a low desk and extracted a small address book from a drawer. "If you're short of female acquaintances at the moment you can have these. I won't be needing them for awhile." He flipped the book at Webb. By chance the cover opened, caught the air and slanted the book up in its course so it struck the physician's cheek with a slap. The faint sting was the detonator that exploded all the careful restraint of seven centuries. Webb arose to his feet slowly and moved toward Clifford, "So medicine was too elementary for you? Human physiology and behaviour has no unsolved problems in it, you said once. So you went into robotics -- positronic brains -- infinite variety of response, with built in neuroses and psychoses. Human behaviour was too stereotyped for you, Clifford. Everyone was predictable to seven decimal places. You were bored." "You have it about right," the engineer said insolently. He let his arms drop to his sides, relaxed, unconcerned at the tension in the physician's voice. "You build fine chess-playing machines, I hear," Webb said softly, gradually closing the distance between them. "Your mechanical geniuses have outstripped our finest playwrights and novelists for creativity and originality. You've probed every conceivable aberrated twist of human nature with your psychological-probabilities computers. You've reduced sociology and human relations to a cipher -- " Clifford shrugged. "Merely an extension of early work in general semantics -- the same work that gave us mental stability to go with physical immortality. Certainly you don't disparage -- " "I'm disparaging nothing," Webb broke in. "I'm merely pointing out your blind spot, your fatal blind spot." "Fatal?" "Yes, Clifford, fatal. I'm going to kill you." The words seemed to have no effect. Not until Webb's powerful surgeon's hands closed about his neck did Clifford go rigid and begin his futile struggle. Webb did not crush the larynx immediately. He squeezed down with slow, breath-robbing pressure, feeling for the windpipe under his thumbs. Clifford gasped, " Sa long life, Webb... don't... , commit suicide." "It's a long life, but not for you, my stupid friend. Sure, they'll execute me. But you won't have her. Never again, do you hear?" Clifford's eyes were closed now, and Webb knew that the roaring in his victim's ears would be blotting out all external soimd. The knowledge infuriated him, and he screamed, "You fool, I pleaded with you. I took your insults and gave you every clue you needed -- didn't you recognize my condition? fool!" Clifford collapsed to his knees, and Webb let him go with one final, irrevocable wrench that certified his death. Clifford's death and his own. The penalty for murder was still capital punishment, and in his own case Webb acknowledged the logic and necessity of such harsh consequences. If there was one activity that immortal, #th Century Man could no longer afford, it was the luxury of falling in love... down at his crumpled victim. The heavy pressure was subsiding from his temples, and the gray film of irrational hate faded from his vision. "Cliff -- I -- " Then full horror closed in on him and he choked off. His hands felt slick and slippery, but it was his own sweat, not blood. The tactile memory of his fingers squeezing, crushing Clifford's 'throat, fed details of touch, texture and temperature to his tortured but clear brain. His surgeon's fingers were twitching, trying to tell him what they had discovered moments ago, but a more overwhelming thought blocked the message. Vve taken a mans life ,... and my own. And ruined Annes happiness. Vve brought her tragedy instead of happiness. No, not tragedy. Inconvenience. It would still be a long life for Anne. She would find a suitable mate, then her child would quickly erase the memory of this day. Still, he had committed murder, the first deliberate murder the world had known in centuries. "Damn you!" he screamed down at the body. "Why didn't you protect yourself?" "Oh, I did, Webb, I did!" Webb spun to face the direction of the voice behind him. His eyes must be playing tricks -- an afterimage, perhaps. "Who are you?" Webb demanded. "Clifford Ainsley. The prototype, that is, in the flesh and not a roboid." He nodded at the body on the floor. "Ainsley the Second. Strictly a lab job." "Cliff? Oh, my God!" Webb fell into a chair and sobbed with relief. Clifford Ainsley came to him and put a hand to his shoulder. "I'm truly sorry, Webb, but it was better this way. We can be thankful that I anticipated your actions." Webb looked up. "You -- expected me to murder you?" "The p c -- probability computation -- was remarkably high. You see, I ran your genetic pattern into the computer, added the double stress factor of Anne's serious illness and her forthcoming motherhood, and the subtotal spelled out a four letter word." Webb nodded slowly. "Love." "Right. And you know the corollary to that. When I punched in the details of your relationship with Anne and me, well, the next subtotal read -- homicide." The expression of relief in Webb's face changed to show the hurt he felt. "But if you knew all this, why did you have to play out this scene, even with a remote control robot?" "To discharge the murder impulse, my friend. I had to play it straight, reacting just as I would to your demands, had I not known of your condition. Otherwise the computations would have been based on false inter-reaction premises. And until you made the attempt on my life, you were a real danger to me -- and yourself. Now the shock of your murder attempt and the relief at your failure have dissipated that danger." It was true, Webb admitted to himself. No longer did he feel the least malice toward Cliff. But bitterness was still rank on his tongue. "So how does the story end? Does boy get girl or not?" "Of course. Boy always gets girl, if he wants her. It's a long life. At this phase she wants me." "Is that your own opinion or just another subtotal of the computer?" "Both." "But -- how does it really end. What happens when you punch the total key?" "You ask that, Webb? You, one of the very first to embrace the rigors of physical immortality? My dear friend, there is no total key."    lUustrated by Ed Emsh It was a new era -- an era of practicality and cruelty, an era for youth... An era of alarm, too, for people who were over sixty... pacing and listened; his head tilted expectantly. When he heard the elevator stop, he went with quick, awkward steps to the apartment door and opened it just a crack. "This time," he sighed with relief, "It's Eleanor." He opened the door for her. His wife breezed down the hall and through the open door. She dumped her armfiil of packages beside her on the couch as she kicked off her shoes. "Whew! What a relief!" Closing the door carefully, Sydney hurried over to her. "Ellie -- I've been worried. You didn't tell me you were going to be so late. And when you didn't call -- "Nonsense," she said gaily. "It's only #:#. Why, the stores are just now starting to board up. And you know the "A Cars" don't start running till seven." She smiled at him. "Would you get my slippers, honey?" He hesitated for a moment, and then shuffled into the bedroom. Eleanor stood in front of the couch flexing her tired toes. She had a small and rather dumpy figure without her high heels. And though her fashionably dressed body was usually molded into the latest silhouette, now in her more relaxed state she frankly looked her sixtyone years. Sydney came back with her slippers, and bent to put them on. "Thanks, dear, shopping just kills my feet. But, enough of this," she sighed, "I've got only a few minutes to get dinner ready before 'Manhunt' comes on." And she started for the kitchen. He followed and caught her heavily by the shoulders, his face stern. "Listen, Ellie -- I don't ever want you to come home so late that you have to take an armored car." He shook her to emphasize his statement. "But why?" she asked with genuine wonder. "They're safe enough. Edith and Ruth often take 'A' cars, and nothing's ever happened to them." He let her go reluctantly. "Ellie," he said gently, "I just want to be sure that nothing happens to you, that's all. We're at such a dangerous age now, with both of us over sixty. You're all I've got. I'd be so all alone without you." She thrust out her ample chest indignantly. "Sydney, the trouble with you is that you're still living in the past. You've got to keep up with the times. Sure, things are different now, than they were, say, ten years ago. But what of it? If life is more dangerous now, it's intense, too!" He eyed her steadily. "What's so "You've just got to accept," she continued glibly, as though it had been memorized, "the fact that it's a young people's world, now. Live for the day! That should be our motto." She smiled placidly at him. "That's the way I've been living this past year. As though each day was completely separate from the one before it -- and the one after. In a young people's world -- what else is there to do?" Eleanor patted her husband's cheek, and then looked past him into the living room, a shocked expression on her face. "Why Syd, have you been sitting here all alone without the T.V. on? Goodness, that's enough to make anyone start thinking! You march right in there and turn it on." He turned, with a slight shrug, to comply, and Eleanor started to fix dinner. The T.V. screen was in full view of the kitchen cubicle, of course. Apartments had been designed that way for years now. So, she was able to open the few cans and containers that constituted dinner, with her eyes almost entirely on the T.V. Sydney gave it a glance or two as he set the table. But he was too preoccupied with his thoughts to enjoy the programs as much as he usually tried to. He wondered why this day to day living didn't seem to be as much fun to him as it did to others. He fingered the "SixtyPlus" insignia sewn onto his shirt sleeve. To him, it had turned out to be merely a matter of waiting. Eleanor was fixing a salad, with hardly a glance at what she was doing, so automatically did her fingers accomplish their task. He looked at her, cheerfully doing what the times and fashion decreed, and wished he could accept things the way she did. He was very fond of her. Now that he had been retired, they should have had time to enjoy each other. But something was wrong. Most people tried to have fun while they were waiting. Their closest friends, Eddie and Jean, seemed to be enjoying their retirement period. Or were they really, he asked himself, remembering a few times in past conversations when the talk had verged momentarily in that direction, only to break off guiltily. They sat down to eat at the table in front of the screen, sitting side by side, of course, so they wouldn't miss any of the programs during dinner. Part way through the meal the phone rang. Sydney quickly got up to answer it. He knew Eleanor hated to be disturbed during a T.V. program. "Hello, Jean," he said pleasantly, recognizing her voice at once. "What's the matter? You sound so -- " His lips remained open, unexpectedly. Then, he put his hand over the mouthpiece of the phone. "Ellie!" he called so sharply that she turned at once. "What is it?" she snapped back at him between mouthfuls. "It's Jean. She says Eddie's gone out for 'fair game'!" His voice faded to a whisper. "Good God, Ellie. I don't know what to say to her!" Eleanor dropped her fork to the plate with an air of disgust rising to the surface. "Oh, that woman! She always did let Eddie worry her." She smiled benignly. "Tell her we're sorry to hear it, of course. But he had only a year to go anyway." "But she wants to know what to do!" He looked at her pleadingly. "She's acting hysterical. If she decides to go out herself -- Eleanor got up and took the phone from his shaky hand. He sat down on the couch, only distantly hearing snatches of what Eleanor was saying to Jean, picturing Eddie walking down the deserted streets. Probably right out in the middle, where anyone could see him. "No -- you stay right where you are -- no point in both of you . , . Yes, that's right. I've always known you had more pride than he did... Sure, we'll be over to see you -- no, not tonight!... Of course not; wait until morning -- remember, I'm counting on you, Jean." Eleanor finally hung up and, going back to the table, finished spearing the bit of salad she had been working on. Sydney looked at her, unbelievingly. "Ellie, how can you go right back to eating after what's happened to Eddie?" Her eyes remained on the screen. "Why should I feel sorry for him, if he didn't have the guts to wait? I just feel sorry for Jean. The shame of it! If it had happened some other way, it would have been different. And Jean hasn't even got enough sense to realize it isn't 'fair game' for Eddie. It's just plain suicide!" Eleanor glanced at her husband sharply. "What on earth's got into you tonight, Syd! You're jiunpier than I've ever seen you." He concentrated, a puzzled look on his face. "I don't know. I never thought much about it until today. And with Eddie. Everything falls into place suddenly, it all seems so wrong, so useless." He looked at her intendy as she pushed her empty plate away and lit a cigarette. "Ellie, doesn't it strike you as strange -- almost unbelievable -- that we accept the concept of longevity as a subversive one? Doesn't it seem -- well, weird -- that we sixty plus-ers sit around every night -- just waiting?" Eleanor turned innocuous grey eyes to him. "Oh, Sydney, you're talking like a silly pup. Let's pay attention to the show." "Some people kill themselves." He muttered, almost savoring the words. "Oh bosh, don't say such things!" Her voice was tight and angry. "Sydney, you wouldn't shame me like that, would you; not like that weak-kneed Eddie?" "Why not?" he retorted. He was beginning to feel ashamed of arguing with Eleanor but he couldn't stop. "Since my retirement, since I became a sixty plus-er, I've just been sitting around doing nothing. I feel like a stupid animal being kept in a pen." He buried his face in his hands and sobbed. She stroked his head lovingly but nevertheless condescendingly. "Sydney, there's so much you could be doing, now that you have time for it." He raised his head tiredly. "It's too late for that. But -- what have I missed? Have you got an answer?" "Well," she looked slightly disconcerted. "What all the others do. they play golf, and sunbathe, and go to lectures and shows, and  " Her ingenuity gave out. She stole a glance at the T.V. screen. "You've got to relax, honey, stop all this thinking. You know, 'eat, drink, and be merry' sort of -- " He noticed that her attention had wandered. He knew why. That cold chill in the pit of his stomach had told him that it was almost time. "Do we have to watch it, tonight?" Sydney asked her almost bitterly. "How can you really sit there and enjoy seeing all that violence and -- " She leaned back comfortably, watching the screen. "What else are the boys to do? The psychiatrists say, that since the war is over, pur boys need to drain off their energies somehow. Besides, sometimes it's really merciful." She folded her arms over her stomach, as though to dismiss the subject. The screen had darkened. There were two young men, dim and strange looking, with masks over the lower part of their faces. And they were making plans -- in a small, darkened room. Then, silently, they left the room, and crept through the somber streets. The camera followed them faithfully as they slipped cautiously from shadow to shadow. Sydney foimd himself watching the screen now, too. It compelled him against his will. "I went through a war," he hissed, clenching his fists tightly. "The Korean War -- when I was young. And when it was over I went back to work in an office. I didn't need any violence drained out of me! "Sshhh," Eleanor insisted, and then relented. "I keep telling you, Syd, these boys went through a different kind of war than yours. They've had more taken out of them than you had." She whispered it, her eyes never leaving the screen, her breath coming in excited gasps. "People have just outlived their usefcJness, now, by the time they are sixty. It's natural for the young folks to resent us, especially if we are a burden and there are too many of us. You've got to adjust, Sydney, just adjust to the times." The two men paused at an intersection -- paused for endless ple watched, hardly daring to breathe. Then slowly and deliberately, with overtly melodramatic malice, they turn a corner, and start to run swiftly along the watched -- there were some who felt a cold clutching within them. Sydney leaned forward on the couch, his pale eyes almost bulging with intentness. The intersection on the screen had been familiar. The street the cameras were recording -- was more so. Adjust, he thought, I wish it was that easy for me. Adjust to the times, she says -- they all say -- thereby excusing everything hideous, and violent, and disgusting that exists in the present. Nobody objects to anything. There's nothing constructive for individuals anymore. They just accept. Adjust to bein idle and useless at sixty, whether I like it or not. Adjust to A Gars, the boarding up of shops every night, not daring to go out after dark. Get used to violence and fear, sitting in front of this screen as though it were an object of worship. Endure "Manhunt" every night; not knowing -- just waiting -- waiting... those of us who live to sixty-five. Eleanor cleared her throat and then whispered huskily. "They've been up the same street before." She turned to him, her eyes watery with agitation pushed almost to its limit. He couldn't help it. All his resentment was momentarily stilled by his affection for her. He smiled. "Sure, Ellie. Many times." Involuntarily, he put his arm around her shoulder and squeezed. Without warning, the two men stopped in front of an apartment house. They glanced quickly around, and then slipped into the building, the camera close upon them, Sydney took his wife's hand. "Why they've even been in the very same building before." His face felt cold and damp. He added resolutely, "It's a big apartment house, Ellie, a real big one." Suddenly he found himself listening -- listening -- hardly breathing. It seemed as though sound didn't exist anymore. There was just silence, grotesque and unnatural. Then he heard it. First there was a stealthy shufiling sound coming a long ways down the hall. Then the slight regular noise of a wheeled object, following. Sydney saw that she had not heard. Her eyes were desperately fixed on the screen. It could be, he thought chaotically, it could be the Masons across the hall. They're almost sixty-five. Then the door knob turned, and the door swung silently open. Stiffly, Sydney turned his head to the door. There was time, they saw to that. There was time to see the two masked men with guns in thenhands. And behind them was the T.V. camera, registering the scene that was duplicated on his own screen. There was even time to turn to Ellie; to see the look of cheated disappointment in her eyes change to astonishment as the bullet cut cleanly into her open mouth. And then there was no more time for Sydney Mercer either, who had reached the age of sixty plus and therefore was past his usefulness. Another bullet stopped his intake of breath. The camera moved in for a close up of the two men; their lips, beneath the masks, smiling and guileless. Then the camera hovered for a few moments over the ludicrously postured bodies on the couch for a fade out. "Manhunt" was over for the night. The announcer's voice and figure gradually took over the expanse of the screen. "Tonight's program has been (Continued on page #) The Morrisons didn't lose their freedom. They were merely sentenced to the highways for life, never stopping anywhere, going no place, just driving, driving, driving... with him. They were influential people. He was put on the road.  Stan wanted to scream at the big sixteen-cylinder Special to go faster. But Salt Lake City, where they would allow him to stop over for the maximum eight hours, was a long way off. And anyway, he couldn't go over a hundred. The Special had an automatic cut-off. He stared down the super tenlane Freeway, down the glassy river plunging straight across the early desert morning -- into nowhere. That was Anna's trouble. His wife couldn't just keep travelling, knowing there was no place to go. No one could do that. I can't do it much longer either, Stan thought. The two of us with no place to go but back and forth, across and over, retracing the same throughways, highways, freeways, a thousand times round and round like mobile bugs caught in a gigantic concrete net. He kept watching his wife's white face in the rear-view mirror. Now there was this bitter veil of resignation painted on it. He didn't know when the hysteria would scream through again, what she would try next, or when. She had always been highly emotional, vital, active, a fighter. The Special kept moving, but it was still a suffocating cage. She needed to stop over somewhere, longer, much longer than the maximum eight hours. She needed treatment, a good long rest, a doctor's care -- She might need more than that Complete freedom perhaps. She had always been an all-or-nothing gal. But he couldn't give her that. Shimmering up ahead he saw the shack about fifty feet off the Freeway, saw the fluttering of colorful hand-woven rugs and blankets covered with ancient Indian symbols. It wasn't an authorized stop, but he stopped. The car swayed slightly as he pressed the hydraulic. From the bluish haze of the desert's tranquil breath a jackrabbit hobbled onto the Freeway's fringe. It froze. Then with a squeal it scrambled back into the dust to escape the thing hurtling toward it out of the rising sun. Stan jumped out. The dust burned. There was a flat heavy violence to the blast of morning sun on his face. He looked in through the rear window of the car. "You'll be okay, honey." Her face was feverish. Sweat stood out on her forehead. She didn't look at him. "It's too late," she said. "We're dead, Stan. Moving all the time. But not alive." He turned. The pressure, the suppression, the helpless anger was in him meeting the heavy hand of the sun. An old Indian, wearing dirty levis and a denim irfiirt and a beaded belt, was standing near him. His face was angled, so dark it had a bluish tinge. "Blanket? Rugs? Hand-made. Real Indian stuff." "My wife's sick," Stan said. "She needs a doctor. I want to use your phone to call a doctor. I can't leave the Freeway -- " This was the fourth unauthorized stop he had made since Anna had tried to jump out of the car back there -- when it was going a hundred miles an hour. The Indian saw the Special's license. He shrugged, then shook his head. "For God's sake don't shake your head," Stan yelled. "Just let me use your phone -- " The Indian kept on shaking his head. There was no emotion, only a fatalistic acceptance of the overly-complex world he and many of his kind had rejected long ago. "You're a Crackpot." "But what's that to you when I just want to use your phone? If I can get a doctor's affidavit -- " "If I help you, then the Law come down on my neck." "But I only want to use the phone!" "I cannot risk it. You drive on now." He felt it, the thing that was slowly dying in Anna's eyes. This need to strike out, strike out hard and murderously at something real. This suppressed feeling had been growing in him now for too many miles to remember. He started forward. But the Indian slid the knife from his beaded belt. "I am sorry, and that is the honest truth," The Indian said. "But you have to move on now." The Indian stepped back toward the ancient symbols of his kind. "We have stopped moving. We stay here now no matter what. Now, White Doctor, it is your turn to move on." He put his hand over his eyes as though to push something down. One act of violence, and the questionable "freedom" would be ended. That would be an admission of defeat. His hand still over his eyes, he backed away. Then he turned, choking and half blinded with smoldering rage. Keep moving. Nothing else to do with ffiem but put them on the road and keep them moving, never letting them stop over long enough to cause trouble, to stir up any wrong ideas. Hit the road. Crackpot. Head on down the super tenlane Freeway into the second Middle Ages lit with neon. Then he was running, yelling at Anna. She was past the shack and stumbling through sand toward the moimtains. He coaxed her back and into the car, sickness gorging his throat as she kicked and screamed at him and he forced her into the comer of the back seat. "Stan, we could run to the mountains." "The Law wouldn't let us get very far. Remember, the Special's remotely controlled. If we leave the Freeway, they'd be on us in no time. Tliey Imow when we stop, where we stop. They know if we leave the Freeway!' "But we would have tried!' "They're just waiting for us to do something legally wrong so they can put us away, honey. We can't let ourselves be goaded into doing anything legally wrong!" "Stan -- she was shaking her head, and her eyes were wet. "Can't you see, can't you see? What they do to us doesn't matter now. It's what we do, or don't do -- " When she quieted down a little, he got back under the wheel. Within a hundred feet, the Special was going eighty-five miles an hour. T he thing he had to hold on to hard, was the fact that they had never really done anything wrong. Anna needed a good long rest so she could regain Ae proper perspective. The Higher Court itself had said they hadn't done anything wrong. There were thousands now on the Freeways, none of them had any real criminal labels on them. They were risks. They might be dangerous. Attitudes not quite right. A little off center one way or another at the wrong time. Some personal indiscretion in the past. A thought not quite orthodox in the present. A possible future threat. A threat to total security. Be careful, easy does it. Too many black marks on his road record and the "freedom" of the road would go. Then he would be a criminal in fact, instead of a vague criminal possibility, and put behind bars. Or worse. The hell with them. The heU with them all. He pulled over onto an emergency siding and stopped. Not authorized. A good long rest and talk with Anna -- Then he saw it. Suddenly, frantically, he wanted to move on. But now he couldn't. He kept seeing the light of defiance fading from Anna's eyes. The Patrolcar was there, the way it always was there, suddenly, materializing out of the desert, or out of a mountain, a side street. Sometimes it was a helio dropping out of the sky. Sometimes it was a light Hashing in darkness. Every official of the law: city, county, state, or federal, had a full record on every Special. They could control them at will. Stop them, start them, keep them moving down the line. Jails of the open road. Mobility lending to incarceration a mock illusion of freedom. Open sky. Open prairie. The Freeway stretching ahead. And the Patrolcar coming up behind. The Patrolcar stopped. The two Patrolmen in black and gold imiforms looked in at Stan. "Well, egghead," the older, beefy one said. "It was nice of you to stop without being asked. A fellow named Ferret! back at Snappy Service No. # said you might be a trouble-maker. We thought we ought to check up." Stan said, "I wanted to use his phone to try to get a doctor to examine my vidfe. She's ill. She needs help and I've been trying -- " Without turning, the older Patrolman interrupted, "Larry, what you got on the philosopher here?" The younger Patrolman who had a shy, almost embtoassed air about him looked into his black notebook. "He isn't a philosopher, not officially, Leland. Every Crackpot we stop, you figure him to be a philosopher. You just hate philosophers that's all." "Well, that's a fact, boy." When he took the cigar out of his mouth, the corners of his mouth were stained brown. "My kid got loused up plenty by a philosopher in High School last year. I raised a squawk and got the Crackpot kicked out. I also got three others booted out for hiring him in the first place. I found out he was a lousy atheist!" The Patrolman put the cigar back into his mouth. "What have you got on him, Lieutenant?" "Stanley L. Morrison, B.A. Drake University, Class of '#. Doctor of Philosophy, Drake University, #. Federal employee #-#. Dropped from Federal employment, January, # -- " "What for. Lieutenant?" "For excessive political enthusiasm for the preceding political party in office." The Lieutenant looked up almost apologetically. "Looks like he was unfortunate enough to have been on the wrong side of the fence when the Independants were elected." "These guys are dangerous no matter what side they're on. A Crackpot shouldn't be on either side. Well, Lieutenant, what else?" "Professor of Nuclear Physics, Drake University, #-#. Dismissed by Board of Regents May #, charged with 'private thought inconsistent with the policies of the University'. Special inquiry August #. Dismissal sustained. Was put on the road as a permanent risk to security February #, #. He's been on the roads for a year and three months." Stan forced quiet into his voice. "My wife's sick. If I could get a doctor to examine her. I'm sure I could get a permit to lay over somewhere so she can get rest and proper treatment." "Only eight hours," the beefy one said. "That's the limit. And you're not supposed to have stopped here at all. Or back at the Indian's." "I know," Stan said. "But this is an emergency. If you could help me -- " The beefy one grinned into the back seat. "That might be all that's bothering the missus, egghead. She ain't getting the proper treatment maybe." Easy, easy does it. In the rearview mirror he could see that what the Patrolman said had brought a flush of life to her face. She was rigid now, and then suddenly she screamed. "Stan! For God's sake, Stan, don't take any more from the simian!" "Let's go," the young Lieutenant said quickly. "We've got the report and we'll forward it. There's no call to bait them." "Shut up," the beefy one said. "Don't tell me to shut up," the Lieutenant said. He put his notebook away. "This man's never committed any crime. That's why he's on the road. They didn't know what else to do with him. We're supposed to keep them moving that's all. Not hold them up because of personal vindictiveness." The beefy one's face was getting red. "Don't use your big words on me, boy. I'll send you back to College." "He's getting punishment enough. You've got nothing against him, or the woman." The beefy one took a deep breath. "Okay, Lieutenant. But I'm going to drop a few words in the right place. I guess you know how the Commissioner feels about Crackpots." "I don't give a damn. Come on, let's get out of here," The Lieutenant looked at Stan a moment. "You'd better move on. Doctor." "Thanks," Stan said. "At the next Snappy Service maybe you can phone. That's an hour's authorized stop for Specials. There's a Government Project in the hills nearby. You might be able to contact a Doctor there." T he sage spread out to a blur. Heat wavered up from the Freeway. In the rear-view mirror he saw Anna leaning back, her legs stretched out, her arms limp at her sides. She wasn't thinking about this with an historical perspective, that was the trouble. She had lost the saving sense of continuity with generations gone, which stretched Uke a lifeline across the frightening present. Keep the perspective. Wait it out. Tat was the only way. This was an historical phase, part of a cycle. Stan couldn't blame any one. Anxiety, suspicion of intellectuals and men of science -- as though they had been any more responsible really than any one else -- suspicion and fear. There always had to be whipping boys. In one form or another, he knew, it had happened many times before. Another time of change and danger. There was a quicksand of fear under men's reasoning. When things were better, they hadn't remained better. When they were bad, they couldn't stay bad. Wait it out. One thing he knew -- neither he nor any other scientist could detach himself from life. The frightened policemen of the public conscience had made the mistake of thinking they could detach the scientist. ril not withdraw from it. All of it represents a necessary change. If not for the immediate better, then ril be here for the immediate worst which will someday change into something better than ever. But Anna's tired voice was whispering in his ear. "First of all, we're individuals, men, women. We've got to fight, fight back!" "At what? Ourselves?" A sign said: hal's snappy She's right, he thought, and started slowing down. This is it. He wasn't going any farther until Anna was examined, and he was given an okay to stop somewhere so she could rest. It was a dusty oasis, an arid anachronism on ihe desert's edge. Beyond it, the mountains blundered up like giants from a purplish haze, brooding and somehow threatening. Groves of cottonwoods could be seen far ahead, and sprinklings of green reaching into the thinning sage. The old man shuffled out of the shade by the coke machine. Behind him, through dusty glass, Stan saw the blurred faces staring with still curiosity. The old man hesitated, then came around between the pumps to the driver's side. He was all stooped bone and leathery skin. His face, Stan thought beneath the rising desperation, resembled an African ceremonial mask. To the left a '# Fordster was cranked up for a grease job. But the only life around it was a scrawny dog lying out flat to get all the air possible on its ribby body, its tongue hanging out in the black grease. "The car's okay," Stan said. "I just want to use your telephone." "Doctor Morrison, you'd better go on to Salt Lake City. That's an eight-hour stopover." "My wife needs a doctor's okay for a long rest. I can't take a chance on going clear to Salt Lake City." "But this is only an hour stop." Stan got out and shoved past the old man. Heat waves shivered up out of the concrete and through the soles of his shoes. The heat seared his dry throat and burned his lungs. Anna wasn't even looking. She seemed to have forgotten him. Almost everyone had forgotten him by now, he thought, forgotten Doctor Stanley Morrison the man who had never been afraid to speak out and say what he thought, and think what he wanted to think. Fifteen months with never more than an eight hour stopover. Thought and self-regard frozen by perpetual motion, and shriveled by consequent neglect. Only the old man remembered. That was odd. A man stepped into the doorway. He was lean and powerful with a long gaunt chewing jaw like that of a horse. His eyes were small and black, and he was grinning with anticipation. Stan felt his stomach muscles tighten. Behind the man, Stan saw the kid. Almost as tall as the man who was obviously his father, but railthin, like an emaciated duplicate of the man, a starved, frustrated shadow, grinning and feverishly picking at a pimple under his left ear. He carried a grease-gun cradled in his left arm as though it were a machine gun. "I'd like to use your phone, please," Stan said. "My wife's ill. I want to phone the Government Project and see if I can get a doctor over here to look at her." "What seems to be troubling the missus?" "I don't know!" "Then how do you know it's a serious sickness, Crackpot?" "Just let me use the phone? Will you do that?" "They phoned in ahead, Crackpot. Said you might be a troublemaker." "I don't want to make any trouble. I just want to use the phone!" "Why? Even if the Doc came over, you wouldn't be here. He can't get here inside an hour. And that's all the longer you can stay here. You got to move on." "I'm coming in to use the phone," Stan heard himself saying. He fought to keep the breathiness out of his voice, the trembling out of his throat. "I don't guess I'd want to have it said I was coddling a Crackpot." "I never caused you any trouble." "You helped build hellbombs," the man said. He took the toothpick out of his mouth. "You crazy bastards got to be kept moving along the road." "How do you know what I did or didn't do?" "You're a Crackpot." "I never helped build any kind of bomb," Stan whispered. "But even if I did -- " "You're one of them nuclear physicists." "I was an instructor at a University. I taught at a Government school once too -- for a while -- " He stopped himself, realizing he was defending himself as though somehow he suspected his own guilt. "You taught other guys how to build hellbombs. Who needs you and your kind. Crackpot? We need your brains like we need a knife in the back." Stan lunged forward. The kid yelled somediing in a high cracked voice as Stan lashed out again. He felt his knuckles scrape across hard teeth. Blood leaped from the man's upper lip in a thin crimson slash. His eyes widened with a grudging respect, then he snarled through the blood as he stumbled backward and off balance. He fell against the window and trying to regain his balance, reeled and went down in a welter of empty gallon oil cans. He gathered himself for an upward lunge. Through the blood staining his teeth, he muttered, "By gawd. Crackpot. I didn't think you had the guts!" Stan glanced out the window and saw that Anna was gone from the car. Dimly, he heard the man saying he was going to beat hell out of the Crackpot, going to beat the Crackpot over die head and then the Crackpot wouldn't be able to cook up any more dangerous ideas in it for a long, long time. Anna may die now, Stan thought as he stood there bent over a little, feeling his wet fists tightening. She may die now, because of a frustrated fool who doesn't know what else to do with himself on a hot and dull and empty afternoon. Stan suddenly caught the flash of color out of the comer of his eye. He twisted, not thinking at all, and felt his fist sink into the kid's stomach. The kid fell, curled up among the empty oil cans. He writhed and moaned and held his stomach. "Get up, "Stan yelled into the man's face. "Get up -- " The man came up all at once, and his weight hurled Stan clear across the room. He felt the gum machine shatter under him, and the metal grinding into his side as he rolled. Stan felt the grease-gim in his hand as he saw the man lifting the tire tool, and then Stan swung the grease gun into the face, seeing the terrible grin, the bloodstained white smile. Unrecognizable as it was, the mans' face wouldn't go away. Stan swung at it again. Then he heard her voice, Anna's voice, intense and alive, and there was a flash of Anna the way he remembered her a thousand vears ago, before they were put on the road. She was tearing at the man's face with her fingernails and kicking him savagely. Stan had the man's shirt collar and it was ripping under his fingers as he slammed the head against the concrete floor. The thudding rhythm was coming up through his arm and throbbing behind his eyes. Like drums, he thought as a sickening light flashed on the dusty glass, like primitive war drums beating out a dance of tribal doom. Suddenly feeling sick and weak, he stood up and walked stiffly out into the sun. He leaned against the side of the building trying to keep from retching. Anna touched his arm and he looked up, half blinded by the glare of the sun. Her face was flushed and alive. She seemed ten years younger. "Don't be sorry," she said. "Be glad, Stan." "They broke us," he whispered. "We've crawled into the cage." "It doesn't matter, Stan, it doesn't matter what they do to us now! It's something to admit you're human, isn't it?" She was partly right at least. He felt both glad and sad. But in either case, it was the end of the road. He saw the old man lowering the hood of the Special. He ran back between the pumps carrying a metal tool box. "I've fixed it," he said, breathing heavily. "Now get out of here. Push it to the limit. I broke the cut-off too. Hurry it up!" "But what's the use?" Stan said. "They'll get us sooner or later -- " "They're not going to get you now, not if you stop reasoning everhing out as though it were a problem in calculus! I've cut the remote control off, and the radar and radio. They won't know where you are. I've changed the license plate too. But hurry out of here before Hal or his kid start phoning." "But being on the Freeway," ' Stan said, "they'll catch up with us! What's the use -- " "Stan!" Anna said sharply. "Can't you see? We're getting away!" "I don't want to run away from it," Stan said. "You're not running away from anything," the old man said. "You'll find out. Follow my directions and you'll find out. You're not running away. You can get out of the flood water for a while, sit on the bank, until the water drops and clears a little." Stan looked into the old man's face a long moment. "Who the hell are you anyway?" "That doesn't matter. Doctor Morrison. Now will you get out of here! Move on down the road!" Stan finally nodded and took Anna's arm and they started toward the Special. "All right, but what about you?" he asked the old man. "I'll make out. You just be concerned about yourself. Doctor Morrison. This isn't the first time I've helped someone off the road. It won't be the last time either, I hope." He waved to them as the Special, without any limit to its speed now except the limitations of a driver's nerve, roared away toward the moun tains . anonymous on the Freeway, one of countless cars hurtling down the super ten-lane Freeway, its license changed, its controls and checkers cut off, its sovereignty returned to it by a nameless old man, a box of wrenches, and a roll of wire. Three hundred miles farther on, the Freeway began a long banked curve; a thick wall of cottonwoods, willows and smaller brush lined the side where a creek rushed out of a cleft in the lower hills and ran along the Freeway's edge. Stan started to slow down. "There, that's it!" Anna said, pointing excitedly. "The big rock, the three tall trees. There, between the rock and the tree. Turn, Stan. Tumr "But there isn't any road. There isn't -- " Turnr Stan turned. He blinked as the Special roared off the Freeway and smashed through a solid wall of leaves, branches and brush. Then they were on a narrow winding dirt road, dipping down into the stream where a foot of water ran over stones to create a fiord. It twisted up the other side, around the creek's edge, over stones and gravel, twisting tortuously upward and out of sight like a coiled rope. "Go on, Stan, keep going!" Stan kept going. It demanded all his power of concentration just to stay on the road which was hardly more than a pathway through the rising mountains. He had no time to think, and had very little to say. Some hundred and fifty miles farther into the mountains, at an altitude that bit into their lungs, they saw the marker almost buried in rocks at the left of the road. The place where the old man had told them to stop and wait. But they didn't have to wait. A man, lean and healthy for his age -- which must have been at least sixty, Stan thought -- stepped from behind a rock, and came toward the Special. He was smiling and he extended his hand. "Doctor and Mrs. Morrison," he said. Anna was already out of the car, shaking his hand. Stan got out. He took a second look, then whispered: "Doctor Bergmann!" The man wore levis and a mackinaw, and he carried a rifle slung under one arm. "I wasn't expecting you to recognize me," he said as they shook hands. "I've lost about thirty-five pounds." He smiled again. "It's healthier up here." He walked around to the driver's side and opened the door. The motor was still running. Stan realized then what Bergmann was doing, and for some reason without definition he started to protest. Bergmann was setting the automatic clutch and releasing the brake. The Special started moving up the road, but there was no one inside to turn the wheel when it reached the hairpin turn about fifty feet ahead. Stan watched the car gaining speed, its left door swinging like the door in a vacant house. He thought of stories he had heard about convicts finally released after many years, stunned, frightened by reality, begging to be returned to the restricted but understandable cell. Then he smiled. Anna smiled. The Special, once you pushed the right button, could do almost everything by itself, feed itself gas, gain speed, shift its gears; but it didn't know when to turn to avoid self-destruction. Stan winced slightly as the car lurched a little and then leaped out into space. He felt the black void opening under him as though he were still in the Special. Fifteen months. His ears were filled with the sudden screeching whine of the wheels against unresisting air, then the world seemed to burst with a thundering series of solid smashing roars which were quickly dissipated in the high mountain air. Doctor Bergmann went over to the edge and looked down. "That's the tenth one," he said. "We're going to send a work party down there in a few days to cover it all over with rocks. Still, I doubt if we have to worry about them spotting the wreckage." He turned. "Well, let's start hiking. It's still a few miles." "Where," Stan asked. "I've gone along this far. I've had no choice. But now what's it all about?" "Didn't the old man tell you?" "No." "Just remember, Morrison. We're not running away. This is an old Mormon trail. A lot of the old pioneers took it. That marker says camped here and was massacred by Indians in #. There's an old Indian city at about three thousand feet. I guess we're the first ones to use it for maybe a thousand years. We've got an archeologist up there going slightly crazy. Anyway, we've got books up there, we raise most of our own food, and we've plenty of time to study and try to figure out where we made the big mistakes. We're really doing very well." "But what about the old man?" Anna asked. Bergmann chuckled. "Arch has turned into a regular man of a thousand faces. He works along the Freeways and watches for those who are at the breaking point and can't stay on the road any longer. Some of those condemned to the Freeways are criminals, others are fools or misguided zealots; and we've got to be careful not to wise those birds up by mistake. Arch has an unerring instinct, and sending our people to us is his job." The three of them started walking up the old pioneer trail. "We made a lot of mistakes," Bergmann said. "All of us, some more than others. You can't blame people for being afraid, suspicious of us. We did unleash the potentialities for total destruction withIVars are won by sacrifice. But computers don't consider sacrifice an optimum move... ing but now the sky was clear and Ruy, with a glance at the frosty stars and a sharp twist of his foot as he ground out a cigarette, stepped out quickly. It was axiomatic. What had to be done, had to be done. A forged pass, with # hours of alleged validity gleaming brightly in red letters under the plastic overlaminate was better than no pass. And an outdated pass would wipe away a week's work in the underground. Illustrated by Ernie Barth The sharp, massive gray outline of the Pentagon loomed before him, dark and foreboding against the sky. The brightly lighted entrance through which he must gain admittance resembled the glowing peep-hole into the inferno of an atomic drive. Ruy's stomach hardened, then exploded in a surge of bitter, stringent gastric juices as the MP glanced at his pass, scrutinized his face, and then turned his attention toward others coming through the entrance. Ruy wanted to run and hide. His dark blue uniform seemed to shrink tighter and tighter. The misfit must be apparent from the back. The silvery commander's insignia on his jacket weighed heavily at his chest and at his heart. He wished desperately for one fleeting, but excruciating, moment that he were back on his ship, in his own uniform, at the control panel of his computer. He started off to the right in a seeming trance. The first step had been taken. His many hours of thought, study and planning would carry him from here. This was the only way. He had repeated the fact over and over. It was an ugly business, but had to be done. Five years of war was enough, Man was on his knees before the invaders from outer space; but they in turn had been too long from home and were near the breaking point. A continued drain would mean defeat for both sides. Ruy could turn the tide, but very probably his life would be the minimum sacrifice. He had decided his fate long before he left the decks of his ship. Only the belligerent pride of statesmen, and the steadfast belief in the infallability of their computers, kept the two great battle fleets drawn in null position against each other. The computers, perhaps, deserved such ultimate confidence -- in theory. They always predicted optimum maneuver envelopes, always predicted mobilization rates to develop force fields designed to offset those of the enemy. And they always kept battle losses to a minimum -- merely dribbling away the resources of the solar system. Yet in five years of such optimum maneuvering, not a single battle had been won. Two doors gave way before Ruy's pocket vibrator, the lock tumblers slipping and turning freely in a mad frenzy to escape the resonating hum. A short, windowless corridor lay before him, broken only by a massive door at the other end. Beyond that door lay Ruy's objective. The guard never had time to do more than note Ruy's presence in this sanctum sanctorum. The needle thin spray of a paralyzing drug made his body feel stiff, immanageable, and peculiarly buoyant, as though he were being hurled through space. His thoughts became blurred and then after a blinding flash, complete oblivion set in. The two officers seated at the control panels of the master computer experienced similar depression of their cardiovascular systems and medullae. Small thermite igniters pressed against the door lock and hinges fused the steel door to its frame. With the smell of scorched paint still stinging his nostrils, Ruy seated himself at the control panel, dabbed his left wrist with stringent antiseptic, gripped his hand into a fist, and plunged the silver probes deep into the nerves of his wrist. Glancing through the observation window into the battle plotting room below, he studied the positions of the ets as they appeared on the large wall diagram of the solar system. Disregarding the distraction offered by the moving figures of the few officers and technicians on duty by the map, he fixed the positions of the fleets into his mind. He would have need for a clear visual picture until he adapted to the mental images the computer would feed into his brain. He worked with furious haste, yet each step was meticulously precise -- everything depended on his grasping the reins of battle from the computer and successfully twisting its authority to his own purjxses. Grasping the viewing switch, he threw it on. Pinpoints of light flared deep within his brain and seemed to blot his vision. Closing his eyes, his brain fought for perspective. Gradually, it focused and perceived the solar system; resplendent with sun, planets, moons, and men of war. Enveloping each ship were lines of force, scintillating sharp and hard; forming cosmic vortexes as the lesser computers on board followed the master's directives and distorted the ether around the ships, seeking to build a pattern to penetrate the opposing fields and engulf the enemy men of war. A moment, and the game was on. Ruy grasped the "Manual" switch before him, pulled hard, and dropped his hands to the keyboard before him. T he general, who was known in military circles as a good Joe, but a stickler for the theory of war, relaxed languidly at his desk in the small office off the Battle Room. The other officers on duty milled around the plotting board within his eyesight awaiting the end of the evening shift. It was strange and new to relax on the job after so many years of fleet duty. But staff duty to the master computer was good, politically. He was getting along in years, and a few more contacts here might mean a separate fleet command of his own, perhaps in pursuit of the invader, if the computers could ever break the deadlock. Suddenly, the sweet reverie of the General was snapped like a tight tension cable. A gong on the wall clanged rapidly three times and a red flashing light next to the gong told him what his ears refused to believe. The computer had been switched to manual. He had received no such instructions. In fact, the computer hadn't been on manual since the war started. "Captain, who ordered manual control?" he barked as he sprang to the doorway of the Battle Room. "I don't know, Sir," stammered the Captain. His manner and bearing were those of a man who had just been faced with a problem of cataclysmic proportions. "Well check with the control room -- on the double -- before our fleet gets out of defensive position." His parade ground roar snapped the Captain out of the catelepsy which had enveloped him and sent him scurrying into the corridor. An almost hysterical shout whirled the General back to the plotting board. "Sir, our fleet is attacking -- attacking! "What? Where?" asked the General, his eyes darting over the board in a frantic effort to orient himself. "Here, Sir, see. The positions are changing gradually in an unusual pattern. A patrol ship, a destroyer, and a cruiser have all gone right into the enemy vortex field," analyzed the Major. "Yes, I see -- But with the enemy concentrating his ships orthogonally -- She'll build a vortex that will disintegrate each and every ship of ours near the vortex," said the General, his mind coming up to full battle speed as it grasped the situation. "My God! Can't they see that they're going to certain death?" A gong sounded in a muffled sort of way in the plotting room below Ruy, as a gentle buzz told him that the computer had relinquished control. His fingers began to play rapidly over the keys. Swift orders of strategy were transmitted through steel conduits deep into the computer vaults of the building. There, the orders were transposed into detailed tactics and beamed throughout the solar system. And as his fingers limbered to the keys, he played a deadly tune, a concerto of death. The fleet grew alive with a sudden awareness; it seemed to be a thing alive, straining at its bonds in response to the music played into its computers and controls. Suddenly, the fleet sprang forward. A destroyer shot out into the midst of the enemy fleet, launching all of its energy in one tremendous lurch -- only to go down in a flaming wreck as the enemy ships swerved and concentrated on it. And a second ship, and then a third ship repeated the frightful maneuver, until the whole heavens were lighted with the flaming novae of berserk atomic drives. "General, sir," said the Lieutenant, with sweat rolling from his brow as he saluted. "Yes, Lieutenant," said the General looking away from the battle map of the solar system. "We can't make any headway against the control room door. Must be solid steel. Whoever got in there must have fused it shut." "Well, get a welding torch," said the General, his eyes going back to watch the devastation of the fleet. "We've got to get in -- get that computer back on automatic. Get explosives, if necessary." "We've sent for a welding torch already, sir. It'll be here in a few minutes." "All right. Send someone for hand grenades too. WeVe got to stop this sabotage before the fleet is annihilated. They're losing ships every minute," "Sir," interposed the Captain standing nearby, "maybe we can cut off the computer room someway. I know it's a direct conduit, right to the vaults from the control room, but maybe we can cut the conduits and let the ships fall back on their emergency circuits," "Looks like a possible alternative, Captain, though we'd put the computer out of operation for several days," said the General. "But we're losing our fleet this way." Seven, eight, nine great men of war went down before the blazing force fields of the enemy, who pounced on every sacrifice offered to it by the computer. The Lieutenant turned his eyes from the incandescent glare of the thick steel conduit glowing red under the finger of the acetylene torch. "General, its extremely resistant to cutting. I doubt if we can cut through it before they finally get the door and frame cut away up in the control room." "Keep at it, boy. We've got to get through at the saboteur one way or another. Do the best you can. The boys in the fleet are counting on you. They're going down to certain death while we delay." new equations of strategy played into the computer, Ruy sat back, gave a sigh, opened his eyes, and slipped the electrodes from his wrist. His job was almost done. If he could keep the others from this control panel for another half hour, the computer could operate on his equations fully, and the battle would be won. The first ships from Earth had already gone down in flames, expendable sacrifices to his purpose. But they were not dying in vain. The end result would be -- must be -- victory. Wars are fought by strategy, hut also by sacrifice. Every general must send troops into battle, must expect to sacrifice to make the enemy commit himself in the desired way, and so make victory possible. This was what Ruy believed. He believed it deeply, deeply enough to throw aside his career as a rising young theoretical mathematics officer of the fleet and to go over the heads of his unconvinced superiors, with all their unread reports and unanswered recommendations from subordinates, in the only way a man of action could -- by taking things into his own hands, and staking his life on the gamble. The General, eyes riveted to the board, winced with pain as ship after ship roiled the heavens with flaming death. And as he watched, a gradual subtle design became apparent. For every ship he had lost, his ships had taken a similar tally -- for each sacrifice, a trap was sprung and a similar toll taken. Computers did not sacrifice, did not send men out to certain death. Therefore a sacrifice was greedily snapped up as a mistake of the enemy. And such greed snapped the trap. One move forced the next, once the bait was taken. As the theme of the theory formed in the General's mind, he suddenly muttered : "Even exchange will balance a computer's potential -- but a series of forced, even-exchanges can distort a fleet's position from optimiun... I never realized it before -- an optimum move is not an optimum move -- if it's a forced move." He turned from the board and spoke quietly to the men who stood in hushed groups watching the flaming battle. "Gentlemen, we are winning a great victory; the war will soon be over." The door to the computer room toppled outward, frame and all, after several ceaseless hours of cutting. The impact left the hallway of armed men silent and still, like specters in the unreal light from the glowing acetylene torch. Just inside the doorway stood a man, his youth belied by wise and thoughtful eyes, grinding a cigarette under his foot. And as he stepped through the wrecked and twisted door frame not a hand was raised against him.    the race of mankind. What did it matter that it was conceived without love and emotion. What did it matter that she was being used as an experiment... if this child within her could fulfill the promise. Miryam spat the soft capsule between her quivering lips. She watched it roll and bounce across the polished tile floor, toward the door. Pain returned, and its fire was warm. There were no shadows on the wall. Pain returned, and it had purpose and promise. Wonderingly, she beheld the concept that science, too, lived with fear, each science in its own Ghetto. And if the young doctor was right, if psi... As the doctor stepped into the room, he bent over and picked up the red capsule. His thumb and forefinger felt the warmth, the moisture, and he looked long and thoughtfully into Miryam' s dark, glowing eyes. His fingers shook as he wrapped the capsule in a piece of tissue and dropped it into the pocket of his white jacket. He picked up the chart from the foot of the bed. "Miryam -- His voice was not under complete control, and he began again, with an effort at lightness. "Miryam -- that's a strange name. What does it mean?" "It is an ancient spelling," she whispered, her eyes deep and dark, filled with pain and wonder. "You may find it easier to call me -- Mary." #   Deception can be good or bad, depending on how you look at it and on the circumstances. Dorav and Tzal had the right way of looking at it, and the circumstances were undoubtedly prime. G radually he became aware of resilient rubber and plastic supporting him. He lay on his back, heels together and toes lopped outward, elbows crowding uncomfortably into his ribs. His body shifted. The month-long hibernation was over. A delicious feeling of completeness -- of achievement -- swept over him. He, Dorav Brink, had escaped from the endless boredom and idleness of Earth's mechanized domes, after all. Here on SuUe II there would be adventure and work in plenty. His eyes opened. In the soft yellowish light which flooded the small square room, he saw a dozen other couches, similar to that on which he lay. Most of them were occupied. His gaze probed the huddled figures searching for the girl Rea. He had met her aboard the space lighter enroute to the interstellar liner that was to carry them to SuUe II. Then they had been given their preliminary capsules of iberno and he remembered no more. Ihemo hits some people that way -- with others it takes five or six capsules to put them into the deathlike cataleptic state required for star hopping... He saw her! Third couch to the right of his own. He stood up carefully, balancing on rubbery legs, and his hand went up to the constriction binding his skull. What was this? Goggles! Brink's fingers curled about the flexible band securing them. He tugged. "Stop that, Brink!" Brink's hand fell away. He recognized the voice of Len Daniels, the recruiter for this illegal voyage here to Sulle II. "Want to lose your eyesight. Brink?" demanded the dapper little man. "We warned you of the danger, For at least ten days your eyes must remain protected." The little gray-haired man wore no glasses, he had acquired an immunity to the sunlight of Sulle II from former voyages, but his naturally pink-and-white complexion was a sickly yellow. Their voices roused the other colonists, and now Daniels moved among them, his soft full voice admonishing and sympathetic. A coarse-haired giant of a man, dark hair graying at the temples of his ruddy outsize features, clamped Brink's fist with a huge hand. "Name's Bryt Carby," he said, his voice ridiculously shrill. "I'm Dorav Brink." His eyes slid toward the tall slenderness of Rea Smyt. "Air don't taste much different from back home. Brink." Brink made a wry face. "After breathing spacer air and being doped with iberno for months could we tell the difference?" Carby laughed in agreement. "But Senior Daniels," and Brink wanted to grin at the respectful term used by the big, slow speaking man, "Senior Daniels says that Sulle II is like Earth in almost every respect." "He would! And possibly it is. According to him even the animals resemble our own planet's." "Once," and Carby grinned widely, "I ate a bit of cooked native meat. Ten credits it cost me. After that the protein packets and yeasteaks sickened me." "I tried it once too, Carby, but it cost me fifteen credits. And that's the way Daniels and his company will get back the thousand credits we owe them for the trip." Brink laughed. "With food that we raise and meat that we kill, Carby. Daniels flies it to Earth and smuggles it into the domes as native to Earth. His profit must be enormous." Carby frowned and rubbed a stubby finger across the bridge of his huge nose. And Brink edged away from his neighbor toward the slim tallness of Rea Smyt. "Attention all of you!" Len Daniels had climbed atop a sturdy metal table. "On the bulletin board just behind me the Commission has posted a list of your assignments and partners for the current year. Some of you will remain here in Low Park to work off your indebtedness, and others will be sent out to Middle Park and Devil's Elbow." Something in the agent's tone, a touch of ironic amusement or arrogance, perhaps, angered Brink. But he kept his lips shut. In the ancient records that he had studied in the long idle years back there in York Dome, he had read of serfdom and slavery. He could afford to wait and learn if what he feared was true. After all, they were many light years from home and at Daniels' mercy -- for the moment at least. "After you have paired up and found the locations assigned you go to Warehouse Seven and draw your rations and tools. Your plastic tents will serve for shelter even in winter, but my advice to you is to build with logs." The little man smiled a trifle grimly as he studied them. "I would advise you to himt game and raise crops as quickly as possible," he added. "Supplies and tools are expensive to freight out here to Sulle II. They will cost you five himdred more credits." The colonists' faces paled and their eyes were sick. Brink smiled grimly as he watched. Well they'd asked for it. Most of them were regretting their decision to abandon the ease and i 'enty of the giant domes already, but they had no choice now. Uncertainly they crowded about the bulletin board, and paired up as the directive indicated. Brink found himself with a partner named Tzal Evans. She proved to be a genial, oversized, blonde giantess at least five years his senior. He had been hoping for a younger, more attractive companion -- possibly dark-haired Rea Smyt. Yet he realized that the Commission could not permit its colonists to choose their jobs and partners at random. There was work to be done. He found the map and learned that both he and Bryt Carby were assigned to the untamed, forested section named Middle Park. And Bryt Carby had drawn Rea Smyt as his partner. Brink scrubbed at his chin. He foresaw difficulties ahead for Carby. The few moments that he had spent with Rea had acquainted him with her lightning changes of mood and her disdain for nles and regulations. Those two had nothing in common. After the legal year of partnership was ended neither of them would be likely to renew the agreement for another year. Perhaps he. Brink, would draw her in next year's pool of unattached citizens, and then... Tzal nudged at him. "Let's get our supplies," she said, her voice deep as a man's. "Sure, Tzal." The top of her fair-haired skull was level with his eyes, and across it he caught a glimpse of Rea Smyt leading Carby from the reception center. "Sure. We better." Rea danced along ahead of Carby like a child -- a lovely slender child. D usk caught them, hours later, on the wooded ridge high above the broad valley that was their destination. Garby followed Rea off the crumbled highway, that the vanished Sullans had built, and into a sheltered grove of long-leaved trees. Brink and Tzal, pushing easily together at the harnesses behind the rubber-tired cart, followed them. Clumsily, for they had never seen a tent before, they released the forward section of the cart and drew out the slender jointed ribs of metal. They snapped these together into a low dome ten feet in diameter; and then Tzal controlled the extensible arms feeding out the plastic covering, while Brink locked the opaque skin into place. Five minutes later, with the wind cone driving the generator and the bottled gas feeding the small stove, Tzal was preparing their evening meal under the soft glowing tubes. She turned to Brink. "Better go help Garby," she suggested, smiling. "That Rea -- " And she shook her head. Brink found Garby struggling doggedly with the metal ribs. His partner was not in sight, but they could hear her voice, singing softly somewhere out among the dusky trees. When at last the lighting tubes were glowing and Garby had lighted the stove. Brink eyed the weary, large-featured man curiously. "What are you going to do about it?" he blurted. "You can't go on doing all the work. She needs a good -- a good, lumping, I think the Ancients called it." Garby grinned faintly. "When she is ready," he said mildly, "she will help," "Hah!" Brink snorted and went to the zippered entrance. "See you tomorrow, Bryt." He crossed the near-darkness of the needle-strewn glade to his own tent. How bright were these stars and how sweet and cold was this raw air. In York Dome, with its conditioned atmosphere, one saw the stars only through telescreens or viewing ports. Somewhere in the darkness a mournful wail, an aching ghost of a howl, sounded, and faded into the unfamiliar chirps, and hums of the night prowlers of the Sullan uplands... There was a choked scream from nearby and Brink heard the crashing progress of Rea Smyt toward her tent. The zippered entrance brightened and then dimmed as she shut it behind her. Brink shrugged. Stooping he entered his own savorysmelling tent. Tzal had covered the sleeping cots with the gay scarlet-and-blue blankets provided them, and their sliced and steaming rations were ready on the extended table shelf of the cart. Tzal smiled at him from the cot that doubled as a chair. "Better eat before it gets cold," she invited, and helped herself to a serving of salmon-hued promine. "Tomorrow," Brink said as he seated himself beside her, "we will dine on real meat -- meat that I kill." "Of course," Tzal agreed placidlyBrink was remembering that easy promise, a month later, as he bound the last raggedly split shake atop the cabin roof. The cabin was but ten feet wide and twice as long, and built of smallish logs, but its cost in blistered flesh and exhaustion had been terrific... Six days had passed after their arrival here in Middle Park before his unfamiliar, lead-propelling rifle finally had brought down a small deerlike creature... the hunting wasn't easy -- nothing here on Sulle II was easy. He slid off the roof and down the tnmk af a small tree that he had left here atop this grassy knoll. He straightened his hunched shoulders and heard the muscles grate and snap across the cartilage. He looked down over the grassy parkland, where a meandering stream watered the soil, and coimted, for the hundredth time, the five young spotted ruminants that Carby, Tzal, and he had captured from a herd of wild creatures. "Cows," Carby, and Tzal, his partner, called these giant cattlelike creatures, and he followed suit. It was easier to apply the familiar names to creatures that resembled those of Earth than to use the names supplied them at the Reception Center. "Dorav!" He heard the voice and then the pressure of two rounded soft arms were around him. "Rea!" he grunted, facing her. He pushed her arms aside, all too conscious of the shielded breast that brushed the back of his hand. "Why are you here?" he demanded. "You have work at your cabin. The walls are only half finished " The girl smiled at him. She was very attractive in a slim boyish sort of way. The palm of her sun-tanned hand, as she laid it upon his wrist, was not calloused as were Tzal's and his own. "My partner and yours are cutting logs above us," she said. "We can be alone for several hours... Brink pushed her soft palm from his arm. For the past three weeks physical exhaustion and unwonted exercise had driven any desire for her from his thoughts. She was Carby's partner for a year -- and Carby was his friend. "Don't get me wrong, Dorav!" Her eyes flashed. They were blue and very dark and clear. "I want to go back to the Earth -- to York Dome, to Sippi Dome or one of the other two domes in North America." "I think we all do at times," Brink said coldly. "But it's not possible. Earth is forty or fifty light years away." "I know a way." Rea Smyt's eyes were bright. "But I need a partner. Bryt won't go -- he likes it here. And your blonde cow of a partner..." "Tzal is okay," Brink said angrily. "Shut your mouth and go back to your own cabin before I -- " "We could go across the plains to the old ruins," Rea cried hastily, "and then journey down..." Brink's work-roughened fingers spun her about facing toward Carby's cabin and the round gray tent beside it at the opposite end of the knoll. Rea was sobbing angrily. "I'll go by myself," she cried. "You fools can stay here and live like beasts -- it's so simple if you only... Brink gave her a shove. "If you worked as you should, you wouldn't find time to be discontented. And next year you can draw a new partner from the unattached pool." The girl's eyes were hot as she turned and raced off along the path bisecting the knoll's green-swarded crown. And Dorav Brink set to work building the huge stone-and-clay chunney that was to warm them in the winter ahead. The memory of Rea's words and the softness of her, kept intruding. Suddenly, he found himself longing for the comforts and the security of York Dome -- he had been a peace guard, serving two hours every month -- life had been soft and easy... Savagely Brink swung his stone hammer, trying to smash his memories of mechanized, pleasant sloth as well as the harsh substance of the rocks. weeks of feverish planting and hunting for game to trade at the frozen locker plant at Center, were behind them. Now it was late summer on Sulle II, and even the early morning was uncomfortably warm. Brink yawned and stretched luxuriously on his cot. Across the room Tzal still slept, her tousled, shortcropped hair faded by the sun, and her exposed firm flesh a ripe, golden-red. Her face was turned toward him and she was smiling faintly, as though at some pleasant dream fantasy. Brink felt a pleasant lethargy. Tzal was a good partner, she never criticized without reason, and he trusted her judgment. His eyes ranged over the cabin. It was stout and welljoined -- and their hands had erected it. Their credits at the locker plant were growing, despite the disappearance of most of the wild herds of "cattle". In another eight or ten years they would have repaid the passage advances and own a valuable property. It was odd, he thought idly, that he never considered any woman other than Tzal as his partner when he thought of the future. Actually, of course she would request a change of partners, as he also intended to do, at the year's end. If the Commission allowed it she might even specify Bryt Carby -- they worked well together in the fields and forest, and the three of them were good friends. Suddenly he was aware of Carby's voice shouting somewhere outside. Brink pulled on his kneelength shorts and a sleeveless tunic, and struggled into his high, clumsily cobbled boots of "cowhide". He took down his repeating weapon and pocketed a handful of cartridges. "What's it?" asked Tzal sleepily. "I expect something is after the herd again," Brink told her as he went out the heavy, double-planked door. He could hear Carby clearly now. He was calling for Rea. Brink swore under his breath and turned to reenter the cabin, but Carby had seen him and hailed him. "Rea left in the night," the big man said. "She took one of the horses and a rifle. And she left a note. Says she is going back to live in one of the domes." Brink whistled. The "horse" she had taken, actually a ystan according to the Commission, was only half-broken and a giant animal three times as large as its Earthly counterpart. "The loneliness must have driven her insane," the big man cried. "We've got to follow her -- get her to come back." Garby's eyes were wild. He clamped Brink's right shoulder. "Are you coming or not, Dorav? She needs us. We've got to find her." The big man's eyes leaked tears. Brink realized, astounded, that the selfish, shallow, lazy woman -- the woman, Rea Smyt -- had won Carby's love. "Of course, Bryt. I'll help you search." "I will go too." Tzal's eyes were steady. "We must work together. When our child is bom another woman will be needed." Brink opened his mouth to object -- closed it. "Of course, but whether Rea is the one to..." "She is a woman." Tzal smiled faintly and nodded. "I'll follow her tracks, the ystans tracks, westward across the park," Bryt Garby said impatiently. "She must head south or north to climb out of the valley. You, Tzal, go to the north end of the valley and pick up the trail -- if it's there." He shook the graying coarse hair no out of his reddened eyes. "You go south, Dorav. I'll meet up with you in a few hours if the trail leads in that direction. If neither of you find a trail and a day passes, I suggest that you return to the cabins." "Best plan," Brink agreed. He called in to Tzal: "I'll saddle up." "Right with you," his partner replied. But, with the approach of night. Brink's big black ystan and his saddle-weary rider followed alone on the trail. Rea's partner had not overtaken Brink as he had promised. The trail was clearcut and easy to follow -- Rea was letting her mount race at top speed southward along the dirt cmsted ancient highway. And Brink's half-tamed black stallion was endowed with stamina and speed that Garby's dun mare could never match... Now, darkness had blanked out the spoor. At a miniature park's brushscreened entrance. Brink urged the weary ystan into the natural hedge of leafy growth. The big black snorted half-hearted protest and reared as branches clawed and stung him. When they were through they were in a broad grassy meadow, and in the fading light of a full moon jagged mins stood etched against the darker trees. He did not attempt any exploration until he had eaten of firewarmed, greasy meat and portions of bread sopped in the frying pan. Then he took a flaming branch, as thick through as his lower leg, and carried this rude torch into the ruins. What had once been a street lay before him. Jumbled walls of brick and stone marked widely separated buildings. In afi, he counted no less than forty-five mounds, when he came across an isolated squared block of stone tilted at an awkward angle and half buried. And cut into the stone was a blurred inscription. The lettering was alien, yet somehow, achingly familiar. Brink dropped to his knees to clean away the concealing sod; but the spell of concentration was broken by a racing, swelling tattoo of hoofbeats. He sprang to his feet, remembering that he had left his rifle near the fire. The rider could be Bryt Carby -- or it could be some, as yet undiscovered savage, native to the planet, or even Rea returning in panic. He found his rifle, stepped through the rim of bushes beside the ancient highway and waited in their shadow. The indistinct bulk of a ystan grew larger in the pale light of Sulle IFs lone satellite. At first Brink could see no rider; then he saw the huddled lump of darkness above the saddle. He stepped out into the road. "Rea?" he said. His rifle lifted above the horizontal, its butt at his hip. "Woa," the rider moaned faintly, and the trembling ystan came to a drooping stand. Brink reached up to the rider to help her down. "No," Rea whispered. "Hide me ' -- hide -- Ahorse. Savages..." Brink grunted under his breath and tugged at the steaming ystan" s bit to lead the beast off the highway. They pushed through the clawing branches, the ystan"s breathing stentorian and ragged. The exhausted mount was dying on its feet. They had scarcely reached the open meadow within, when the ystan collapsed. Rea fell with him, her right leg pinned under the twitching wet hulk. As Brink tugged her leg free, she groaned and went limp in his arms. Only then did he feel the stickiness of half-dried blood on her tunic and discover the sharp arrowhead that projected a full two inches from the front of her left shoulderblade. Gently he whittled at the arrow's exposed shaft until the irregular metal head dropped off and then he jerked the arrow from the wound. He was glad that she was unconscious. The distant voices of humans, shouting unintelligible phrases, warned him of the approach of the savages. The fire! With his hands he smothered and buried the flames. It was possible that the aborigines might pass them by. He could not banish the smell of smoke as he had the telltale glow of the coals, but the direction of the wind might protect them... The stiffening loom of the ystan lay between them and the park's brushy entrance. Carefully he slid his rifle up and over the saddle. Voices and the sliding, chomptramp of hide-shod feet came and passed on. They had missed the break in the return tracks of Rea's ystan. Or, perhaps, the hoofprints of Brink's mount seemed to them a continuation of her spoor. "I am awake," a small voice whispered beside him. "Are you in pain, Rea?" "Not much. Too near being dead for that. Fm done." "No chance." Brink's voice was flat and false. She must have lost most of her blood. "How did it happen?" "Was heading south on this highway. Planned to turn east soon. To Denver or some other deserted city where I might find a tube shuttle to Sippi Dome. You realize -- this is really Earth?' "Just now," Brink agreed gruffly. "Found a cornerstone. Must have been a public building -- a bank they called it. This was Gollrada Nation, or State." "I knew... weeks ago. Tried to tell you. So... started alone." She sat up suddenly, as though propelled by springs, and her good arm motioned toward the moonlit heights. She tried to say something, choked, and fell back. There was no pulse... T he third day after Rea's death. Three days, and three of the hairy, half-naked white savages, he thought grimly. He had never killed a fellow being before -- in York Dome hatred and love and loyalty were mere words from the barbarian centuries -- but now he had destroyed three of his own kind. Nor did he feel any shame or regret... The savages on Rea's backtrail had come upon Bryt Carby. He had killed one of them before they had overpowered him and built their fires. Carby had not died until an hour after Brink had come upon the howling pack of six warriors and had emptied his gun into them. He had killed two of them outright and wounded three others; and then he had cared for the broken, blistered thing that had been his friend, until Carby died. Now he watched before the cave where two savages lay hidden -- and he watched the growing swarmings of green-bodied flies about the elevated rocky lip of their shelter. The warriors must not escape to carry word back to their tribesmen of the settlement of the men from York Dome... At a sound from behind him, he turned about, his rifle butt dug into his shoulder and chest, his finger pressing the firing button. "Tzd!" Behind the boulder overlooking the savages' rocky death trap he took her in his arms. She was Tzal, smiling and full-bodied as always, and his partner for this year and for the other years. The years yet to come. She was dirt-streaked and sweaty. Her clothes were tom and her hair was matted and discolored with dust. Weariness darkened the skin beneath her eyes... She was beautiful! "Where," she asked him after a time, "are they hidden?" "Up there, just back of those -- " He spun about, racing back to where he had dropped his rifle. The two savages, wounded and limping grotesquely, were scuttling toward a broken jumble of rock fragments. Once hidden there they might work up the slope and escape. Tzal's rifle cracked, once, twice, even as he turned and brought up his own weapon. A defiant yell slapped across the rocky slot and an arrow thudded weakly at Tzal's feet. Brink's thumb hit the firing button and the warrior spun about and fell across the man Tzal had shot. For now the settlements were safe. The colonists, bargaining years of hard work for a supposed passage to a distant unsettled world, were secure from attack. Only a few hours from their luxurious home domes, they could sweat and toil and suffer as the hardy explorers of the earlier centuries must have done. Dorav Brink wanted to laugh -- to tell Tzal and the others of the colossal duping they had experienced. Yet he kept silent. From the evil of the trickery a great good might come. For the first time in centuries men were living an active. brain-stimulating life. Let the great hothouse domes with their dwarfish inbred animals in their parks, and their controlled atmosphere, and odor content index, and mass-produced pleasure booths go their way. Let the pale, thready-muscled humans nibble their synthetic promines and yeasteaks -- the pioneers had no need for substitutes... Brink's arm went around Tzal's shoulders and he was looking into her shaken, tear-stained eyes. He smiled. It was the first time he had ever seen his placid partner so moved. "All this," Brink said, his hand sweeping, "for our son, and for the sons to follow him. Our children will make of Sulle II a better world than Earth." Tzal's lips trembled. She had not heard him, he thought. His head lifted yet higher and he filled his lungs with the crisp upland air. Tzal was clinging to him, depending on him... Precisely, perhaps, as Tzal wished him to feel.    The study of science can make genuine and wholesome contributions to character development, not the least of which is an uncompromising demand for truth and honesty in all the affairs of life and a proper humility before all the many wonders which surround us. -- E. U. Condon The fom stumbling blocks to truth: The influence of fragile or unworthy authority, custom, the imperfections of undisciplined senses, the concealment of ignorance by ostentation of seeming wisdom. -- Roger Bacon In the not too distant future, you will walk into a supermarket, shop, pay the bill, and walk out with a cash receipt that identifies your bags of groceries -- but you won't carry the groceries to your car. An endless belt will speed them straight to the parking lot. And when you put the bags on the kitchen table, they won't topple over, because they will be shorter, squatter and wider at the bottom. New equipment foreshadows other aids to shopping, such as carts with wrap around handles so that you can push them or pull them from either side or end, automatic doors that open as you approach them, food cabinets that can be reached from all sides, and large tanks of synthetic sea water that keep lobsters "sea-fresh". Houses of the future may all be built using a four-inch cube, called a module, as a structural "atom." Nowadays the architect draws his plans according to feet, inches and fractions of inches. When construction begins, plumbers, masons and carpenters have to cut and patch their non-standardized materials to make them fit the requirements. The new system of modular measure would eliminate this waste by making use of building materials that are standardized to the fourinch cube. Thus, when the workers follow a blueprint scaled to the module, all parts would automatically fit. It is estimated, from the structures already built with this method, that industry would save adopting this method. If present trends continue, surgical mortality of the future may well nigh be non-existent. Figures show that in the past ten years deaths from major surgical operations have been cut by as much as four-fifths, in some instances, and at least by half in the overall picture. Improvements in training, surgical techniques, anaesthetic substances and procedures, post operative and preoperative procedures, increasing use of antibiotics, and the use of blood transfusions to prevent death from shock have all been major factors. The record is all the more remarkable, because in recent years more than half the patients operated on have been aged fifty or over. Underwater explorers may soon be able to pedal themselves into the watery depths. A new device, designed to go along with snorkles and swimfins, is a sort of miniature submarine about to # feet long. The operator sits inside a plastic bubble and powers the sub by pumping pedals. The pedals drive the propeller and the sub heads downward and then straight ahead. On a calm day the device can move along under water at a speed of # or # miles per hour. Designed primanly for offshore prospectors for oil and uranium, it is also ideal for treasure hunters and sportsmen. Home baked bread like grandma used to make may soon be an actuality, but the hard work will be eliminated. The Canadian Defense Research Board has come up with an instant bread mix which produces the same tasty aromatic loaf without kneading or fermentation. All the baker has to do is add water and then bake for two hours. It will be available in U.S. stores, but so far no one knows exactly when. Car designers of the future may reduce the death toll from head-on collisions by putting trunk space behind the engine. Recent experiments by the Highway Research Board showed that less then onethird of the initial jolt of a collision is absorbed by the car frame. Putting more car structure between the front bumper and the driver would increase the absorption of the impact. Farmers may some day be able to produce six or seven ears on one stalk. Recent investigations by plant physiologists have discovered an unknown factor in com strains that causes them to regularly produce either one or two ears to a stalk. They have also foimd that by blocking off the point at which one ear is begining to develope, the stalk is forced to produce an ear at another point. Some minor success has produced as many as three miniature ears, using this blocking technique, and then allowing the blocked ear to develope after the third ear has formed at the new point. Hospitals of the future may have stocks of dura, the membrane that covers the brain. A recently discovered technique has enabled medical research men to preserve this membrane by the freeze-drying method, which is also used for preserving arteries and other tissues. Success with dogs has been reported by members of the Naval Medical Research Institute, and frozen dura has been stockpiled at the tissue bank of the Naval Medical School and will be used clinically at the Naval Hospital at Bethesda, Maryland. A gas tank that is expected to save many airplane crash victims from a watt second, kilowatt an hour. # -- Direction. # -- Compression. # -- #. # -- Electromagnetism. # -- Wave-length. # -- # m.p.h. #I -- Incandescent gases. # -- ##. # -- Planck's. # -- # degrees. # -- Entropy. # -- #. # -- Light. # -- #. # -- Long. # -- Einstein. fiery death has passed its first tests and may soon be a "must" on all aircraft. The tank, which is made of tough rubberized nylon, is rupture proof and will not spew forth its contents at high speeds. Tests show that the tank can withstand direct impacts of up to # miles an hour. The cell bodies range in weight from one-tenth to six-tenths of a pound per square foot and are designed to remain intact in a crashing plane until enough force is built up to rip the wing off. Sometime in the future the Earth may be dotted with large-scale factories that are making food by artificial photosynthesis. Recent discoveries in the field have opened new vistas of unlimited food and power supplies; a time when Man would no longer have to depend on green plants for food and energy sources, but will be able to tap sunlight directly. Researchers have found that the true "solar engine" of plants is in the small, chlorophyllcontaining green granules called chloroplasts. When isolated, these chloroplasts use sunlight to split water into hydrogen and oxygen exactly as is done in the living plants. The scientists have also found chemicals which will stop each step in the complete cycle of photosynthesis which follows so that men in the laboratories can separate or combine the processes at will and see what happens. The goal for the future is a harnessing of the sun's energy to make foods out of carbon dioxide and water in larger amounts than that which growing plants are able to provide. Ultimately, through such a mechanism, energy-rich chemicals may be built up from sunlight to provide unlimited power for industry as well. Don't be too surprised if you soon see bathing suits made of the new stretch yarns. Manufacturers think they have the technical problems licked now, and if they do, that old joke about the lady who carries her bathing suit in her purse will be more fact than fiction. Personnel directors of the future may hire their scientists and laboratory workers by testing their mental "temperature". A new concept has shown that the different rates of scientific production are much larger than other variations among men. No runner can race # times Book Service Phone GRamercy #-#  We Stock All current American Science Fiction in Book Form ond carry current Magazines and Pocket Books  A lorge selection of Science Fiction is ovailoble of British Books, Magazines and Pocket Editions.  We carry a large stock of Back Issues of Science Fiction Magozines.  faster than another, and one man doesn't speak # times faster than another. But mental "temperature" or capacity, likens the production of ideas to a chemical reaction. A small increase in temperature can speed the reaction considerably. If one man's mental temperature is twice that of another, he is likely to be # times more productive. Gardeners may now envision a weed-free future with more and more certainty. Several products, in testing stages, have shown signs of being exactly what the suburban home-owner has been dreaming about. A new weed-killer, mixed with the soil before planting, has proven quite successful in attacking only the weeds, allowing the flowerbed to grow luxuriously without a single weed. Another successful item is a new non-poisonous, non-corrosive weed killer that permanently sterilizes soil beneath pavements etc. and is ideal under walks, driveways, fences, parking areas and even the sidewalks in front of your house. sponsored, as a Public Service," the oily voice intoned, "by the National Gasket Company, with offices in all principal cities. Remember your duty as a citizen. All you oldsters, between the ages of "sixty and Annihilation Day" -- you may be among the ones who don't have to wait until your sixty-fifth birthday -- and you others who are nearing the twilight years -- be sure you have your burial arrangements taken care of. Do it tonight -- at the very latest, tomorrow. For the next day may be too late. "The management, the staff, and the actors want to extend their respects to the wonderful old couple who played their parts in tonight's real life drama. "Goodnight all!"    Dear jlq: Naturally I turned to the editorial immediately after arriving home with your mag. I must compliment you on a good job. You did some pretty fast thinking in order to beat your deadline for turning in a # page filler. Needless to say, I am inclined to favor a practical application of eugenics, the science whose aim is to breed a superior human stock ; not by combining those qualities considered favorable by one generation in one locality, but rather by weeding out those characteristics which almost all people consider unfavorable. Certainly idiots (I.Q. # -- ) are capable of producing geniuses. It would be useless to argue with you on that point. One thing to be remembered, though, is that the percentage of high I.Q.'s from such matings is substantially lower than that from # normal persons. An example of, and probably the most widely publicized of inherited physical aflflictions is Hemophilia, which is carried by a recessive gene. This is the disease that indirectly led to the Russian Revolution #. It certainly would eliminate much suffering if matings between persons carr)dng this and similar genes could be prohibited. You cited the example of Europe's former ruling houses. Here we certainly have an example of controlled breeding -- but was it carried on scientifically Hardly. Here harmful recessives were allowed to multiply until they began showing up regularly. I wonder what the results would be if beneficial genes were allowed to multiply in similar fhion. How do you reason that individual enterprise must be bred out of the race? How much "individual enterprise" does a Mongolian Idiot demonstrate? This is, of course, an extreme example -- but I doubt that you can prove that deficient intelligence breeds "individual enterprise". Certainly the U.S. has prospered. If there is any such thing as a gene for wager that most of the people immigrating to these shores would have to have had it in order to even conceive of leaving the "old country". "It was built... and men with some of the worst brains in the world." The preceding is a direct quotation from your editorial What does "worst" mean? Name a few such men. In preceding centuries there existed conditions in most parts of the globe which insured survival to the fittest. As a result, harmful recessives were prevented from spreading to a great extent. Now that the superior individuals thus created have made it possible for every microcephlic to live as long as other men's ingenuity can keep them alive, I wonder how we will prevent the average I-Q(by this I refer to potential brain power) from dropping below the accepted mean of #. You could've done well to make a more extensive survey of eugenics as even a rank amateur such as myself can spot the shallowness of your reasoning. -- Edmund Luksus, # Johnson Street, Gary, Indiana. Maybe I didnt succeed in making my point in that editorial (January issue). However, it was simply this: Individual incentive is a more promising avenue to good government and a healthy nation than selective breeding, -- jlq Dear Mr. Quinn; Just felt impelled to write a "letter to the editor' to say I thii the February issue is about as consistently meritorious as I've seen, including the cover. Not a really weak story in it, although I thought the motivation in "Seller of the Sky" was a little faulty. For some reason, "The Odd Ones" particularly tickled my fancy, even though I assumed all along that Dickson's human characters were male and female. I especially liked your editorial, not only for giving me a bit more insight into your preferences for stories but for the general discussion of science fiction. I agree thoroughly that it should be primarily entertainment. Whatever lessons of psychology and philosophy may or may not be concealed therein, the magic of literature that is pure entertainment never palls. I still remember the charm of Edgar Rice Burroughs son's "The Green Girl," the first science fiction serial I ever read. -- Charles L. Fontenay, # Chadwell Drive, Madison Tenn. After the preceding letter and the one to follow, J am happy to say Uhanks to the author of Escape Velocity and Blow the Man Down. -- jlq Dear Mr. Quinn: To say the least, your editorial (IF, March-#) aroused my interest more ways than one. First, it is uncommon to find such material in the usual stf publications. But you seem to feel that since stf bases much of its premises and concepts on sociological factors, a stf mag should be the most likely place for sociological dissertations. That's all good and well. More power to men in the publishing field who don't remain stereotyped and primitive in locomoting themselves editorially. However, none of the above obviates the fallacious thinking employed in the message you wished to impart. Since you seem to express yourself along lines of wanting more democracy in what obviously is an age bereft of much of it, then allow me to continue. And if you can see your way to doing it, reproduce this letter in one of your future issues so that some of your readers derive democratic satisfaction from "hearing both sides. To begin with, you state that with an all-powerful union in America (like templated) "A dictatorship" could very well be "the next easy step." But this has always been the feeling of countless numbers of people since the first vestiges of unionizing were found in this country close to one hundred or more years ago. What you base your ukase upon is hardly anything new, nor is it just and logical. Unions have always been cited as tannical, too overbearing, and rather high handed in their dealings with the "poor, suffering, misunderstood 'boss' and industrialist," who, of course, has nothing but the welfare of his employees at heart and who "knows" better than they do what is good and right... Next, part of your argument is based upon the fact that even small union organizations -- despite their smallness -- have been able to paralyze vast shipping areas around the country, or have immobilized the steel industry (which in turn suspended industrially all automotive, construction, and various concerns dependent upon steel). But to that I say; well, so what? No, don't misunderstand my tone as being blas#, apathetic or filled with pique. Bear with me a moment. By "so what?" I and no doubt So what if various people can't get their pleasure cars on time and have to wait perhaps a few months more? And, what of it if many can't get milk a few days, a few weeks, or even a month (I can't remember a milk strike which lasted too long) ? What of it when millions belonging to the laboring classes have had to do with less than half the milk required, in order that a family be healthfully sustained, not for years but one to two decades or more? For that still can't afford a car, even though carbuying terms have never been more liberal than #-#? Well, someone could say, they can always ride on the trains or buses,... The trouble with the kind of thinking portrayed in your editorial steins from a number of factors, not just one. It is a matter of conditioned belief, not sound analysis. You mention unions and Caesar, Stalin, Hitler and Mussolini in the same breath, although scientifically and sociologically these four personalities are inimical to unions. Unions aren't represented by only one man or even two men as the philosophies and governments of Stalin or Hitler were. One might easily liken unions as a semistate within a state. They are composed members all have an equal voice in their affairs. When something is amiss or must be  righted, they have the power to legislate and straighten them out, knocking out any of their leaders from power if necessary. And as lawful citizens of the country, just like the President, members of the House, yourself, your family, and all others, they too have the right to collectively run their affairs the way they wish. But basically your entire argument is mostly founded on an illusion of "what might happen". That is to say, you try to predict something short of chaos arising out of a national union stronger than it's ever been before. Yet you overlook the fact that as a result of increasingly stronger unions this nation has been able to fight off depressions that have been more than once imminent for the last ten years. That doesn't mean that we may not have depressions because unions exist, or that one united and powerful union would stave it off. However, it definitely indicates that such a vital social force is all too often importantly responsible for warding off national or world-wide economic cataclysms. To say the least, the political and democratic welfare of the nation hardly has everything to do with union leaders. Merely the results of the last Presidential elections and recent national elections of Nov., '#, proves this to be so, contrary to Union exhortations to elect the entire Democratic ticket. The balance of votes and in the way they were divided cross-country showed the most healthy trend, politically or ideologically, this nation has taken to date. Doesn't this indicate that the union contingents are human beings with their own free-will and minds to think? That they aren't the "#" automatons with a Big Brother over them which you try to describe. It seems peculiarly odd to me that a person who has such a keen taste for selecting the higher caliber material you've brought into IF to date can express himself so archaically, practically maliciously, and so much like the robber barons who tried running the country back some decades ago. Probably you've got an axe to grind being a publisher and since publishing costs have soared up about # (maybe more) since #. That's a shame -- but it seems to me that a few more besides a publisher, his family, and the handful of people who make up his staff have the right to eat and live better. As for the publisher: don't worry, you've made a nice little pile when you could; and if you haven't done so in the last few months or recently, blame yourself... A class of workers that has long been underrated, overworked, and grossly underpaid is the white-collar group. This includes secretaries, clerks, filers, writers, commercial artists, and those who work on editorial staffs, etc. Perhaps it may not make you happy, but the time is growing ever nearer when this working class has at long last a strong union to back it up. There is no room for cheap labor in a progressive society... Finally, the only thing this nation has to fear is the day when no one has either voice or "pull" with which to express himself and righteously wield the power inherent to all men. At this time I cannot think of a better voice for most people than unions. If a better voice someday manifests itself, no doubt I'll go along with it. Until then unions do much more than suffice. -- G. Constantine Beck, # Woodcliff Ave., North Bergen, N. J. The hue and cry on that March issue editorial is coming in like a load of bricks. However, my opinion is my opinion, but if I can continue to duck those bricks until the next issue well print more of "the other side, -- jlq This big, nmiderful book of puzzle pleasure If you subscribe noiv to contains the largest, most fascinating, varied and interesting selection of puzzles, word games, math games, quizzes, brain teasers, etc. you ever saw! if you subscribe to # issues (two years) of America's most outstanding puzzle magazine... the magazine that offers a real challenge to any puzzle doer. Besides the crosswords, there are topicals, crostics, cryptograms, mathograms, diagramless, puns and anagrams and others. Special features are The American Way of Saying It, a sprightly series on the American idiom, and a topical Quiz which will make your encyclopedia a close friend. If you do not agree that here is the most puzzle pleasure you ever saw for the money -- after you have examined both the book ing why, and we will return your money at once. You keep the magazine and the book. Kingston, New York is # which will be refunded to me if I am not completely satisfied. How You Can Master... in # Minutes a day T housands of persons make mistakes in their everyday English -- and don't know it. It is surprising how many persons fail in spelling such common words as "business," "judgment." "beneficiary," and "receive"; say "between you and I" instead of "between you and me"; use "who" for "whom" ; and mispronounce the simplest words. And it is equally astonishing how few know whether to use one or two "c's" or "m's" or "s's" (as in "recommend" or "disappoint"), or when to use commas in order to make their meaning clear. Most persons use only common words -- colorless, flat, ordinary. Their speech and their letters are lifeless, humdrum. What Does Your English Say About You? Does your English help or hinder you? Every time you talk, every time you write, you show what you are. When you use the wrong word, when you mispronounce a word, when you punctuate incorrectly, when you use commonplace words, you handicap yourself enormously. English, the very tool you should use to improve your business or social position, holds you back. And you don't realize it. for people are too polite to tell you about your mistakes. But now Sherwin Cody offers you a common sense method of acquiring a mastery of English in only a few minutes a day. It's so easy to stop making the mistakes in English which have been hindering you and learn to present your ideas clearly and forcefully on all occasions -- without even thinking about it r L # Central Drive, Port Washington, N.Y. I Please send me, without any obligation on my part, your  free book, "How You Can Master Good English in # Min utes a Day." No agent will call. I janie  Address  I  If # years or under check here for Booklet A. I J What Cody Did at Gary For years Mr. Cody studied the problem of creating instinctive habits of using good English. Several years ago he was invited to teach English to all upper-grade pupils in Gary, Indiana. Mr. Cody secured more improvement in these pupils in five weeks than previously had been obtained by similar pupils in two years under the old methods. # Self-Correcting Device The basic principle of Mr. Cody's method is habit-forming. Suppose he himself were standing forever at your elbow. Every time you made a mistake, suppose you could hear him whisper: "That is wrong, it should be thus and so." In a short time you would habitually use the correct form and the right words. Mr. Cody's patented # SelfCorrecting Device does exactly this. It is his silent voice behind you, ready to speak whenever you commit an error. It finds your mistakes and concentrates on them. You are not drilled upon anything you already know; and there are no rules to memorize. The study of English has been made so simple that no more than fifteen minutes a day is required -- and not of study, but of fascinating practice! Those who take advantage of Mr. Cody's method gain something so priceless that it cannot be measured in terms of money. They gain a facility of speech that marks them as educated persons in whatever society they find themselves. They gain selfconfidence and self-respect. As for material reward, the importance of good English in the race for success cannot be over-estimated. Surely no one can advance far without it. If you are ever embarrassed by mistakes in grammar, spelling, pronunciation, punctuation, or if your vocabulary is limited, this free book, "How You Can Master Good English in # Minutes a Day," will prove a revelation to you. It can be had free upon request. There is no obligation. Send the coupon or a letter or postal card for it now. No agent will call. Port Washington, N.Y. PREVIEW -- When artist Ed Valigursky introduced his spherical moon shuttle-ships in the May (#) issue, one of the scenes offered such unusual possibilities as a cover we asked him to do it in full color. The scene is that of a shuttle-ship discharging its cargo on the moon and it will appear on the next (October) Issue of IF. It Is reproduced here in black on a blue tint -- but you should see it in full color! It's the most colorful and effective moon action illustration we've seen in a long, long time. Don't miss it! All Stories New and Complete s s I S I By Kenneth Rossi, illustrating "Bleedback"  # E IF is published bi-monthly by Quinn Publishing Company, Inc. Volume #, No. #. Copyrht # by Quinn Publishing Co., Inc. Office of publication, # Lord Street, Buffalo, New York. Entered as Second Class Matter at Post Office, Buffalo, New York. Subscription # for # issues in U.S. and Possessions; Canada # for # issues; elsewhere .#. Allow four weeks for change of address. All stories appear ing in this marazine are fiction; any similarity to actual persons is coincidentaL Not responsible tor unsolicited artwork or manuscripts. #c a copy. Printed in U.S. A. Next issue on sale August I#th It was a frightening thing to happen to a person; the responsibility was just too great. But Norman Muller couldn't back out. Multivac had chosen him, and the entire nation waited... Illustrated by Paul Orban L inda, aged lO, was the only one of the family who seemed to enjoy being awake. Norman Muller could hear her now through his own drugged, unhealthy coma. (He had finally managed to fall asleep an hour earlier but even then it was more like exhaustion than sleep.) She was at his bedside now, shaking him. "Daddy, Daddy, wake up. Wake up!" He suppressed a groan. "All right, Linda." "But, Daddy, there's more policemen around than any time! Police cars and everything!" Norman Muller gave up and rose blearily to his elbows. The day was beginning. It was faintly stirring toward dawn outside, the germ of a miserable gray that looked about as miserably gray as he felt. He could hear Sarah, his wife, shuffling about breakfast duties in the kitchen. His father-in-law, Matthew, was hawking strenuously in the bathroom. No doubt Agent Handley was ready and waiting for him. This was the day. Election day! To begin with, it had been like every other year. Maybe a little worse, because it was a Presidential year, but no worse than other Presidential years if it came to that. The politicians spoke about the guh-reat electorate and the vast electuh-ronic intelligence that was its servant. The press analyzed the situation with industrial computers (the New York Times and the St. Louis Post-Dispatch had their own computers) and were full of little hints as to what would be forthcoming. Commentators and columnists pin-pointed the crucial state and county in happy contradiction to one another. The first hint that it would not be like every other year, was when Sarah Muller said to her husband on the evening of October # (with Election Day exactly a month off), "Cantwell Johnson says that Indiana will be the state this year. He's the fourth one. Just think, our state this time." Matthew Hortenweiler took his fleshy face from behind the paper, stared dourly at his daughter and growled, "Those fellows are paid to tell lies. Don't listen to them." "Four of them, Father," said Sarah, mildly. "Tliey all say Indiana." "Indiana is a key state, Matthew," said Norman, just as mildly, "on account of the Hawkins-Smith Act and this mess in Indianapolis. It -- " Matthew twisted his old face alarmingly and rasped out, "No one says Bloomington or Monroe County, do they?" "Well -- " said Norman. Linda, whose little point-chin face had been shifting from one speaker to the next, said pipingly, "You going to be voting this year. Daddy?" Norman smiled gently and said, "I don't think so, dear." But this was in the gradually growing excitement of an October in a Presidential Election Year and Sarah had led a quiet life with dreams for her companions. She said, longingly, "Wouldn't that be wonderful, though?" "If I voted?" Norman Muller had a small, blonde mustache that had given him a debonair quality in the young Sarah's eyes, but which, with gradual graying, had declined merely to lack of distinction. His forehead bore deepening lines bom of uncertainty and, in general, he had never seduced his clerkly soul with the thought that he was either born great or would under any circumstances achieve greatness. He had a wife, a job and a little girl and except under extraordinary conditions of elation or depression was inclined to consider that to be an adequate bargain struck with life. So he was a little embarrassed and more than a little uneasy at the direction his wife's thoughts were taking. "Actually, my dear," he said, "there are two hundred with odds like that, I don't think we ought to waste our time wondering about it." His wife said, "Why, Norman, it's no such thing like two hundred first place, only people between # and # are eligible and it's always men, so that puts it down to mayreally Indiana -- " "Then it's about one and a quarwant me to bet in a horse race against those odds, now, would you? Let's have supper." Matthew muttered from behind his newspaper, "Damned foolishness." Linda asked again, "You going to be voting this year, Daddy?" Norman shook his head and they all adjourned to the dining room. citement was rising rapidly. Over the coffee, she announced that Mrs. Schultz, having a cousin who was the secretary of an Assemblyman, said that all the "smart money" was on Indiana. "She says President Villers is even going to make a speech at Indianapolis." Norman Muller, who had had a hard day at the store, nudged the statement with a raising of eyebrows and let it go at that. Matthew Hortenweiler, who was chronically dissatisfied with Washington, said, "If Villers makes a speech in Indiana, that means he thinks Multivac will pick Arizona. He wouldn't have the guts to go closer, the mushhead." Sarah, who ignored her father whenever she could decently do so, said, "I don't know why they don't announce the state as soon as they can, and then the county and so on. Then the people who were eliminated could relax." "If they did anything like that," pointed out Norman, "the politicians would follow the announcements like vultures. By the time it was narrowed down to a township, you'd have a Congressman or two at every street-comer." Matthew narrowed his eyes and brushed angrily at his sparse, gray hair, "They're vultures, anyhow. Listen -- " Sarah murmured, "Now, Father -- " Matthew's voice rumbled over her protest without as much as a stumble or hitch. "Listen, I was around when they set up Multivac. It would end partisan politics, they said. No more voter's money wasted on campaigns. No more grinning nobodies high-pressured and advertising-campaigned into Congress or the White House. So what happens? More campaigning than ever, only now they do it blind. They'll send guys to Indiana on account of the Hawkins-Smith Act and other guys to California in case it's the Joe Hammer situation that turns crucial. I say, wipe out all that nonsense. Back to the good, old -- " Linda asked, suddenly, "Don't you want Daddy to vote this year, Grandpa?" Matthew glared at the young girl. "Never you mind now." He turned back to Norman and Sarah. "There was a time I voted. Marched right up to the polling booth, stuck my fist on the levers and voted. There was nothing to it. I just said: This fellow's my man and I'm voting for him. That's the way it should be." Linda said excitedly, "You voted, Grandpa? You really did?" Sarah leaned forwird quickly to quiet what might easily become an incongruous story drifting about the neighborhood. "It's nothing, Linda. Grandpa doesn't really mean voted. When he was a little boy, they had something they called voting. Everyone did that kind of voting, Grandpa, too, but it wasn't really voting." Matthew roared, "It wasn't when I was a little boy. I was # and I voted for Langley and it was real voting. My vote didn't count for much, maybe, but it was as good as anyone else's. Anyone else's. And no Multi vac to -- " Norman interposed. "All right, Linda, time for bed. And stop asking questions about voting. When you grow up, you'll understand all about it." He kissed her with antiseptic gentleness and she moved reluctantly out of range under maternal prodding and a promise that she might watch the bedside video till #:#, if she was prompt about the bathing ritual. Linda said, "Grandpa," and stood with her chin down and her hands behind her back until his newspaper lowered itself to the point where shaggy eyebrows and eyes, nested in fine wrinkles, showed themselves. It was Friday, October #. He said, "Yes?" Linda came closer and put both her forearms on one of the old man's knees so that he had to discard his newspaper altogether. She said, "Grandpa, did you really once vote?" He said, "You heard me say I did, didn't you? Do you think I tell fibs?" "N -- no, but Mamma says everybody voted then." "So they did." "But how could they? How could everybody vote?" Matthew stared at her solemnly, then lifted her and put her on his knee. He even moderated the tonal qualities of his voice. He said, "You see, Linda, till about forty years ago, everybody always voted. Say we wanted to decide who was to be the new President of the United States. The Democrats and Republicans would both nominate someone and everybody would say who they wanted. When Election Day was over, they would count how many people wanted the Democrat and how many wanted the Republican. Whoever had more votes was elected. You see?" Linda nodded and said, "How did all the people know who to vote for? Did Multivac tell them?" Matthew's eyebrows hunched down and he looked severe. "They just used their own judgment, girl." She edged away from him and he lowered his voice again, "I'm not angry at you, Linda. But, you see, sometimes it took all night to count what everyone said and people were impatient. So they invented special machines which could look at the first few votes and compare them with the votes from the same places in previous years. That way the machine could compute how the total vote would be and who would be elected. You see?" She nodded. "Like Multivac." "The first computers were much smaller than Multivac. But the machines grew bigger and they could tell how the election would go from fewer and fewer votes. Then, at last, they built Multivac and it can tell from just one voter." Linda smiled at having reached a familiar part of the story and said, "That's nice." Matthew frowned and said, "No, it's not nice. I don't want a machine telling me how I would have voted just because some joker in Milwaukee says he's against higher tariffs. Maybe I want to vote cockeyed just for the pleasure of it. Maybe I don't want to vote. Maybe -- " But Linda had wriggled from his knee and was beating a retreat. She met her mother at the door. Her mother, who was still wearing her coat and had not even had time to remove her hat, said breathlessly, "Run along, Linda. Don't get in mother's way." Then she said to Matthew as she lifted her hat from her head and patted her hair back into place, "I've been at Agatha's." Matthew stared at her censoriously and did not even dignify that piece of information with a grunt as he groped for his newspaper. Sarah said, as she unbuttoned her coat, "Guess what she said?" Matthew flattened out his newspaper for reading purposes with a sharp crackle and said, "Don't much care." Sarah said, "Now, Father -- " But she had no time for anger. The news had to be told and Matthew was the only recipient handy. So she went on, "Agatha's Joe is a policeman, you know, and he says a whole truckload of secret service men came into Bloomington last night." "They're not after me." "Don't you see. Father? Secret service agents, and it's almost election time. In Bloomington!' "Maybe they're after a bank robber." "There hasn't been a bank robbery in town in ages... Father, you're hopeless." She stalked away. Nor did Norman Muller receive the news with noticeably greater excitement. "Now, Sarah, how did Agatha's Joe know they were secret service agents," he asked, calmly. "They wouldn't go around with identification cards pasted on their foreheads." But by next evening, with November a day old, she could say triumphantly, "It's just everyone in Bloomington that's waiting for someone local to be the voter. The Bloomington News as much as said so on video." Norman stirred uneasily. He couldn't deny it, and his heart was sinking. If Bloomington was really to be hit by Multivac's lightning, it would mean newspapermen, video shows, tourists, all sorts of -- strange upset. Norman liked the quiet routine of his life and the distant stir of politics was getting uncomfortably close. He said, "Its all rumor. Nothing more." "You wait and see, then. You just wait and see." As things turned out, there was very little time to wait, for the door-bell rang insistently, and when Norman Muller opened it and said, "Yes?" a tall, grave-faced man said, "Are you Norman Muller?" Norman said, "Yes" again, but in a strange dying voice. It was not difficult to see from the stranger's bearing that he was one carrying authority and the nature of his errand suddenly became as inevitably obvious as it had, until the moment before, been unthinkably impossible. The man presented credentials, stepped into the house, closed the door behind him and said ritualistically, "Mr. Norman Muller, it is necessary for me to inform you on the behalf of the President of the United States that you have been chosen to represent the American electorate on Tuesday, November #, #." with difficulty, to walk unaided to his chair. He sat there, white-faced and almost insensible, while Sarah brought water, slapped his hands in panic and moaned to her husband between clenched teeth, "Don't be sick, Norman. DonH be sick. They'll pick someone else." When Norman could manage to talk, he whispered, "I'm sorry, sir. The secret service agent had removed his coat, unbuttoned his jacket and was sitting at esise on the couch. "It's all right," he said, and the mark of officialdom seemed to have vanished with the formal announcement and leave him simply a large and rather friendly man. "This is the sixth time I've made the announcement and I've seen all kinds of reactions. Not one of them was the kind you see on the video. You know what I mean? A holy, dedicated look, and a character who says: Tt will be a great privilege to serve my country.' That sort of stuff." The agent laughed comfortingly. Sarah's accompanying laugh held a trace of shrill hysteria. The agent said, "Now you're going to have me with you for a while. My name is Phil Handley. I'd appreciate it if you call me Phil. Mr. Muller can't leave the house any more till Election Day. You'll have to inform the department store that he's sick, Mrs. Muller. You can go about your business for a while but you'll have to agree not to say a word about this. Right, Mrs. Muller?" Sarah nodded vigorously. "No, sir. Not a word." "All right. But, Mrs. Muller," Handley looked grave, "we're not kidding now. Go out only if you must and you'll be followed when you do. I'm sorry but that's the way we must operate." "Followed?" "It won't be obvious. Don't worry. And it's only for two days till the formal announcement to the nation is made. Your daughter -- " "She's in bed," said Sarah, hastily. "Good. She'll have to be told I'm a relative or friend staying with the family. If she does find out the truth, she'll have to be kept in the house. Your father had better stay in tlfe house in any case." "He won't like that," said Sarah. "Can't be helped. Now, since you have no odiers living with you -- " "You know all about us, apparently," whispered Norman. "Quite a bit," agreed Handley. "In any case, those are all my instructions to you for the moment. I'll try to co-operate as much as I can and be as little of a nuisance as possible. The government will pay for my maintenance so I won't be an expense to you. I'll be relieved each night by someone who will sit up in this room, so there will be no problem about sleeping accommodations. Now, Mr. Muller -- " "Sir?" "You can call me Phil," said the agent again. "The purpose of the two days preliminary to formal announcement is to get you used to your position. We prefer to have you face Multivac in as normal a state of mind as possible. Just relax and try to feel this is all in a day's work. Okay?" "Okay," said Norman, and then shook his head violently. "But I don't want the responsibility. Why me?" "All right," said Handley, "let's get that straight to begin with. Multivac weighs all sorts of known isn't known, though, and won't be known for a long time. That's the reaction pattern of the human mind. All Americans are subjected to molding pressure of what other Americans do and say, to the things that are done to him and the things he does to others. Any American can be brought to Multivac to have the bent of his mind surveyed. From that the bent of all other minds in the country can be estimated. Some Americans are better for the purpose than others at some given time, depending upon the happenings of diat year. Multivac picked you as most representative this year. Not the smartest, or the strongest, or the luckiest, but just the most representative. Now we don't question Multivac, do we?" "Couldn't it make a mistake?" asked Norman. Sarah, who listened impatiently, interrupted to say, "Don't listen to him, sir. He's just nervous, you know. Actually, he's very well-read and he always follows politics very closely." Handley said, "Multivac makes the decisions, Mrs. Muller. It picked your husband." "But does it know everything?" insisted Norman, wildly. "Can't it have made a mistake?" "Yes, it can. There's no point in not being frank. In #, a selected Voter died of a stroke two hours before it was time for him to be notified. Multivac didn't predict that; it couldn't. A Voter might be mentally unstable, morally unsuitable, or, for that matter, disloyal. Multivac can't know everything about everybody until he's fed all the data there is. That's why alternate selections are always held in readiness. I don't think we'll be using one this time. You're in good health, Mr. Muller, and you've been carefully investigated. You qualify." Norman buried his face in his hands and sat motionless, "By tomorrow morning, sir," said Sarah, "he'll be perfectly all right. He just has to get used to it, that's all." "Of course," said Handley. In the privacy of their bedchamber, Sarah Muller expressed herself in stronger fashion. The burden of her lecture was, "So get hold of yourself, Norman. You're trying to throw away the chance of a lifetime." Norman whispered, desperately, "It frightens me, Sarah. The whole thing." "For goodness sake, why? What's there to it but answering a question or two?" "The responsibility is too great. I couldn't face it." "What responsibility? There isn't any. Multivac picked you. It's Multivac's responsibility. Everyone knows that." Norman sat up in bed in a sudden access of rebellion and anguish. "Everyone is supposed to know that. But they don't. They -- " "Lower your voice," hissed Sarah, icily. "They'll hear you downtown." "They don't," said Norman, declining quickly to a whisper. " When they talk about the Ridgely administration of #, do they say that Ridgely was corrupt and the nation was foolish to elect him? Do they say he won them over with pie-in-the-sky promises and racist baloney? No! They talk about the 'goddam MacComber vote' as though Humphrey MacComber was the only man who had anything to do with it because he faced Multivac. I've said it myself -- only now I think, the poor guy was just a truck-farmer who didn't ask to be picked. Why was it his fault more than anyone else's. Now his name is a curse." "You're just being childish," said Sarah. "I'm being sensible. I tell you, Sarah, I won't accept. They can't make me vote if I don't want to. I'll say I'm sick. I'll say -- " But Sarah had had enough. "Now you listen to me," she whispered in a cold fury. "You don't have only yourself to think about. You know what it means to be Voter of the Year. A Presidential year at that. It means publicity and fame and, maybe, buckets of money -- " "And then I go back to being a clerk." "You will not. You'll have a branch managership at the least if you have any brains at all, and you will have, because I'll tell you what to do. You control the kind of publicity if you play your cards right, and you can force Kennell Stores, Inc. into a tight contract and an escalator clause in connection with your salary and z, decent pension plan." "That's not the point in being Voter, Sarah." "That will be your point. If you don't owe anything to yourself or to me -- I'm not asking for myself -- you owe something to Linda." Norman groaned. "Well, don't you?" snapped Sarah. "Yes, dear," murmured Norman. On November #, the official announcement was made and it was too late for Norman to back out even if he had been able to find the courage to make the attempt. Their house was sealed off. Secret service agents made their appearance in the open, blocking off all approach. At first the telephone rang incessantly, but Philip Handley with an engagingly apologetic smile took all calls. Eventually, the exchange shunted all calls directly to the police station. Noiman imagined that in that way, he was spared not only the bubbling (and envious?) congratulations of friends, but also the egregious pressure of salesmen scenting a prospect and the designing smoothness of politicians from all over the nation. Perhaps even death threats from the inevitable cranks. Newspapers were forbidden to the house now in order to keep out weighted pressure and television was gently but firmly disconnected, over Linda's loud protests. Matthew growled and stayed in his room; Linda, after the first flurry of excitement, sulked and whined because she could not leave the house; Sarah divided her time between preparation of meals for the present and plans for the future; and Norman's depression lived and fed upon itself. And the morning of Tuesday, November #, #, came at last and it was Election Day. only Norman Muller ate, and that mechanically. Even a shower and shave had not succeeded in either restoring him to reality or removing his own conviction that he was as grimy without as he felt grimy within. Handley's friendly voice did its best to shed some normality over the gray and unfriendly dawn. (The weather prediction had been for a cloudy day with prospects of rain before noon.) Handley said, "We'll keep this house insulated till Mr. Muller is back, but after that we'll be off your necks." The secret service agent was in full uniform now, including side-aums in heavilybrassed holsters. "You've been no trouble at all, Mr. Handley," simpered Sarah. Norman drank through two cups of black coffee, wiped his lips with a napkin, stood up and said, haggardly, "I'm ready." Handley stood up, too, "Very well, sir. And thank you, Mrs. Muller, for your very kind hospitality." The armored car purred down empty streets. They were empty n even for that hour of the morning. Handley indicated that and said, "They always shift traffic away from the line of drive ever since the attempted bombing that nearly ruined the Leverett election of ' # ." When the car stopped, Norman was helped oiit by the always polite Handley into an underground drive whose walls were lined with soldiers at attention. He was led into a brightly lit room, in which three white-uniformed men greeted him smilingly. Norman said, sharply, "But this is the hospital?" "There's no significance to that," said Handley, at once. "It's just that the hospital has the necessary facilities." "Well, what do I do?" Handley nodded. One of the three men in white advanced and said, "I'll take over now, agent." Handley saluted in an ofT-hand manner and left the room. The man in white said, "Won't you sit down, Mr. Muller? I'm John Paulson, Senior Computer. These are Samson Levine and Peter Dorogobuzh, my assistants." Norman numbly shook hands all around. Paulson was a man of middle height with a soft face that seemed used to smiling and a very obvious toupee. He wore plasticrimmed glasses of an old-fashioned cut, and he lit a cigarette as he talked. (Norman refused his offer of one.) Paulson said, "In the first place, Mr. Muller, I want you to know we are in no hurry. We want you to stay with us all day if necessary, just so that you get used to your surroundings and get over any thought you might have that there is anything unusual in this, anything clinical, if you know what I mean." "It's all right," said Norman. "I'd just as soon this were over." "I understand your feelings. Still, we want you to know exactly what's going on. In the first place, Multivac isn't here." "It isn't?" Somehow through all his depression, he had still looked forward to seeing Multivac. They said it was half a mile long and three stories high, that fifty technicians walked the corridors within its structure continuously. It was one of the wonders of the world. Paulson smiled. "No. It's not portable, you know. It's located underground, in fact, and very few people know exactly where. You can understand that, since it is our greatest natural resource. Believe me, elections aren't the only thing it's used for." Norman thought he was being deliberately chatty, but found himself intrigued all the same. "I thought I'd see it. I'd like to." "I'm sure of that. But it takes a Presidential order and even then it has to be countersigned by Security. However, we are plugged into Multivac right here by beam transmission. What Multivac says can be interpreted here and what we say is beamed directly to Multivac, so in a sense we're in its presence." Norman looked about. The machines within the room were all meaningless to him. "Now let me explain, Mr. Muller," Paulson went on. "Multivac already has most of the information it needs to decide all the elections, national, state and local. It needs only to check certain imponderable attitudes of mind and it will use you for that. We can't predict what questions it will ask, but they may not make much sense to you, or even to us. It may ask you how you feel about garbage-disposal in your town; whether you favor central incinerators. It might ask you whether you have a doctor of your own or whether you make use of National Medicine, Inc. Do you understand?" "Yes, sir." "Whatever it asks, you answer in your own words in any way you please. If you feel you must explain quite a bit, do so. Talk an hour, if necessary." "Yes, sir." "Now, one more thing. We will have to make use of some simple devices which will automatically record your blood pressure, heart beat, slan conductivity and brain wave pattern while you speak. The machinery will seem formidable, but it's all absolutely painless. You won't even know it's going on. So don't worry about it." The other two technicians were already busying themselves with smooth-gleaming apparatus on oiled wheels. Norman said, "Is that to check on whether I'm lying or not?" "Not at all, Mr. Muller. There's no question of lying. It's only a matter of emotional intensity. If the machine asks you your opinion of your child's school, you may say, T think it is overcrowded.' Those are only words. From the way your brain and heart and hormones and sweat glands work, Multivac can judge exactly how intensely you feel about the matter. It will understand your feelings better than you yourself." "I never heard of this," said Norman. "No, I'm sure you didn't. Most of the details of Multivac's workings are top secret. For instance, when you leave, you will be asked to sign a paper swearing that you will never reveal the nature of the questions you were asked, the nature of your responses, what was done, or how it was done. The less is known about the Multivac, the less chance of attempted outside pressures upon the men who service it." He smiled, grimly, "Our lives are hard enough as it is." Norman nodded. "I understand." "And now would you like anything to eat or drink?" "No. Nothing right now." "Do you have any questions?" Norman shook his head. "Then you tell us when you're ready." "I'm ready right now." "You're certain there's nothing else you want to ask?" "Quite." Paulson nodded, and raised his hand in a gesture to the others. They advanced with their frightening equipment and Norman Muller felt his breath come a little more quickly and his heart beat more rapidly as he watched. T he ordeal lasted nearly three hours, with one short break for coffee and an embarrassing session with a chamber-pot. During all this time, Norman Muller remained encased in machinery. He was boneweary at the close. He thought sardonically that his promise to reveal nothing of what had passed would be an easy one to keep. Already the questions were a hazy mish-mash in his mind. Somehow he had thought Multivac would speak in a sepulchral, superhuman voice, resonant and echoing, but that, he now decided, was just an idea he had from seeing too many television shows. The truth was distressingly undramatic. The questions were slips of a kind of metallic foil patterned with numerous punctures. A second machine converted the pattern into words and Paulson read the words to Norman, then gave him the question and let him read it for himself. Norman's answers were taken down by a recording machine, played back to Norman for confirmation, with emendations and added remarks also taken down. All that was fed into a patternmaking instrument and that, in turn, was radiated to Multivac. The one question Norman could remember at the moment was an incongruously gossipy: "What do you think of the price of eggs?" He had answered, blankly, "I don't know the price of eggs." Now it was over, and gently they removed the electrodes from various portions of his body, unwrapped the pulsating band from his upper arm, moved the machinery away. He stood up, drew a deep, shuddering breath and said, "Is that all? Am I through?" "Not quite," Paulson hurried to him, smiling in reassuring fashion. "We'll have to ask you to stay another hour." "Why?" asked Norman, sharply. "It will take that long for Multivac to weave the new data into sands of elections are concerned, you know. It's very complicated. And it may be that an odd contest here or there, a comptrollership in Phoenix, Arizona, or some council seat in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, may be in doubt. In that case, Multivac may be compelled to ask you a deciding question or two." "No," said Norman. "I won't go through this again." "It probably won't happen," Paulson said, soothingly. "It rarely does. But just in case, you'll have to stay." A touch of steel, just a touch, entered his voice. "You have no choice, you know. You must." Norman sat down wearily. He shrugged. Paulson said, "We can't let you read a newspaper, but if you'd care for a murder mystery, or if you'd like to play chess, or if there's anything we can do for you to help pass the time, I wish you'd mention it." "It's all right. I'll just wait." They ushered him into a small room just next to the one in which he had been questioned. He let himself sink into a plastic covered armchair and closed his eyes. As well as he could, he must wait out this final hour. He sat perfectly still and slowly the tension left him. His breathing grew less ragged and he could clasp his hands without being quite so conscious of the trembling of his fingers. Maybe there would be no questions. Maybe it was all over. If it were over, then the next thing would be torchlight processions and invitations to speak at all sorts of functions. The Voter of the Year! He, Norman Muller, ordinary clerk of a small department store in Bloomington, Indiana, who had neither been bom great nor achieved greatness would be in the extraordinary position of having had greatness thrust upon him. The historians would speak soberly of the Muller Election of #. That would be its name, the Muller Election! The publicity, the better job, the flash flood of money that interested Sarah so much, occupied only a corner of his mind. It would all be welcome, of course. He couldn't refuse it. But at the moment something else was beginning to concern him. A latent patriotism was stirring. After all, he was representing the entire electorate. He was the focal point for them. He was, in his own person, for this one day, all of America! The door opened, snapping him to open-eyed attention. For a moment, his stomach constricted. Not more questions! But Paulson was smiling. "That will be all, Mr. Muller." "No more questions, sir?" "None needed. Everything was quite clearcut. You will be escorted back to your home and then you will be a private citizen once more. Or as much so as the public will allow." "Thank you. Thank you." Norman flushed and said, "I wonder -- Who was elected?" Paulson shook his head. "That will have to wait for the official announcement. The rules are quite strict. We can't even tell you. You understand." "Of course. Yes." Norman felt embarrassed. "Secret Service will have the necessary papers for you to sign." "Yes." Suddenly, Norman Muller felt proud. It was on him now in full strength. He was proud. In this imperfect world, the sovereign citizens of the first and greatest Electronic Democracy had, through Norman Muller (through him! ) exercised once again its free, untrammeled franchise.    A new moral outlook is called for in which submission to the powers of nature is replaced by respect for what is best in man. It is where this respect is lacking that scientific technique is dangerous. -- Bertrand Russell Why was Cyril Kirk, highest man in his class, assigned to such an enigmatic place as Nemar? Of what value was it -- if anything? No one could tell him believed them... planet from the spaceship did nothing to abate the anger seething within him. He stared at it in disgust, glad there were no other passengers left to witness his arrival. All during the long trip, he had felt their curious stares and excited whispers everywhere he passed, and he had felt a small wave of relief whenever a large batch of them the answer. He wouldnt have had been unloaded on some planet along the way. None of them had come this far -- which was hardly surprising, he thought; the last of them had been taken off two-thirds of the way to Nemar. He was very glad to see them go, though by that time they had stopped making their cautious, deferential attempts to draw him into conversation and elicit some clue about his mission Illustrated by Kelly Preas and destination. He had let them wonder. He knew that his aloofness was being taken as snobbishness, but he was past caring. They all recognized that he was a Planetary Administrator by the blazing gold insignia on the dark uniform, insignia calling for awe and respect all over the galaxy. They guessed that this was his first appointment, but the thing that really aroused their curiosity was the bitter, angry look that went with what they considered his arrogant reserve. Since polite efforts at conversation by the braver or more confident among the company were met with icy monosyllables that cut off further attempts, they were left with a wide range of controversy. Some of them held, though they had never actually seen a Planetary Administrator before in the flesh, that all PA's were like this. They argued that the long, grueling years of study, the ascetic,disciplined life from childhood, and the constant pressure of competition, knowing that only a small percentage would finally make the grade, made them kind of inhuman by the time they finished. Besides, they were neargeniuses or they wouldn't have been selected in the first place -- and everybody knows geniuses are sort of peculiar. One of the bolder and more beautiful girls on board had been argued into making a carefully planned attempt to draw information out of him, and bets had been placed on the results. She was eager enough to try her hand at this rich prize, and her self-confidence was justified by a long trail of broken hearts in high places, but the attempt came to nothing. Kirk was aware of her efforts and aware that in another mood he would have appreciated her charm, but he felt too sick and miserable to respond. Remembering her piquant, laughing face later in his cabin, Kirk thought morosely of the long train of girls he had known in the past. Many of them had been lovely -- a fledgling PA was considered a highly desirable date, even though the chances were always that he wouldn't make it in the end. But Kirk had always been filled with an iron determination that he was going to make it in the end, and this meant no distractions. If he began to feel he might get really emotionally entangled with a girl, he stopped seeing her at once. He saw them seldom enough, anyway. The regulations of the PA Institute gave him a fair amount of free time, but the study requirements made the apparent freedom meaningless. How hard he'd worked for the day he'd be wearing this uniform, he thought bitterly. How proud and happy he'd thought he'd feel wearing it! And now, instead, here he was, practically hiding in his cabin, hoping nobody would discover the name of his destination and guess the reason for the humiliated rage that was still coursing through him. He'd gone over the interview with Carlin Ross a hundred times since the trip started, and he wasn't any nearer to making sense out of it than when he began... He'd entered Ross's office for the interview in which he would be awarded his post, full of confidence and pride. The final examination results posted in the main lobby were headed by his name. He knew that, because of his good record and general popularity, he had been watched with special interest by the teachers and staff for some time; and he looked forward to being awarded a particularly desirable planet, in spite of its being his first post. Technical ability and sound training in administration had long ago been decided upon as more important than practical experience, as mankind began to sicken of the bungling of political appointees. The far-flung planets that had been colonized or held an intelligent, humanoid population were so numerous that even an experienced Planetary Administrator could know very little about each one. Only someone brought up on a planet could have a detailed knowledge of it, and it was a basic premise of the Galactic Union that governors with a common upbringing and training on Terra were necessary to keep the varied parts of the empire from splitting off and becoming alienated from the rest. Ross was one of the half-dozen men in the top echelon governing the galaxy and its warring components. His official title was Galactic Coordinator, and one of his minor duties was the supervision of the Institute of Training for Planetary Administration, which had been home to Kirk for so long. Although he was the Institute's official head, he was too busy to be seen in its halls more than rarely, but Kirk had had several brief talks with him and one long one. He had the feeling that Ross had a special interest in him, and this had added to his anticipation on the fatal day. As he entered the room, Ross looked up, his blue eyes friendly and alert in the weathered, tanned face. "Hello, Kirk," he said. As always, the simple warmth of his smile threw Kirk off guard. It had never failed to surprise him the few times he had seen Ross. In this place of dedicated, serious men, of military crispness of speech, of stiffly erect carriage, Ross's relaxed body and quiet, open expression seemed startlingly out of place. Except for the alertness and intelligence of the eyes, he looked like a country farmer who had wandered in by mistake. Kirk, and his friends, had more than once wondered how such an anomaly had risen to the high position of Galactic Coordinator. However, if his manner left you puzzled, it also made you feel surprisingly comfortable, and Kirk had felt relaxed and happy as Ross motioned him to a chair. Nothing prepared him for the shock that was to come. He remembered the apparent casualness with which Ross had spoken. "I'm sending you to Nemar." For a moment Kirk felt blank. The name did not register. His private speculations had centered on the question of whether he would be sent to a thriving, pleasant, habitable planet or to one of those whose bleak surface contained some newly discovered, highly valuable mineral and whose struggling colonists lived under pressurized domes. Either type could have held the chance to work up to the galactic eminence and power he had set his heart on. He had been over and over the list of planets that were due to receive new PA's (there was a rotational system of five years, with an additional five years made optional), and he had a private list of those which, as the star graduate of his class, he hoped he might draw. Nemar was not among them. His face stayed blank for a minute as he searched his memory for the name, and as vague bits of information filtered through to him, his eyes widened in disbelief. "But, sir -- " He fumbled for words. "That's on the very edge of the galaxy." Ross's voice was quiet. "Yes, it's a long way." "But there's nothing on it!" Ross sounded a little amused. "There are some very nice people on it -- the natives are of the same species as we are, though they look a little different. That means the air is breathable without aids. It's quite a pleasant planet." "That's not what I mean, sir. I mean there's nothing of any value -- no minerals, no artifacts, no valuable plant or animal products." He searched his memory for what little he could remember about Nemar from classes. He recalled that the planet had been discovered only forty years ago by a Survey ship that had gone off course far toward the outer rim of the galaxy. It had been incorporated into the Galactic Union because it was considered dangerous to leave any inhabited planet free of control; but it had not been considered a valuable addition. It was far off the established trade routes, and seemed to contain nothing worth the expense of transporting it. "The culture is very primitive, isn't it?" Kirk asked, half thinking aloud. "It is so considered," Ross answered. The reply struck Kirk as odd. A sudden hope filled him. Maybe something new had been discovered about the place, possibly something that only Ross and a few of the top command knew about. He threw a sharp glance at Ross's face, but it told him nothing. "I don't remember too much about the place from class," he ventured. Ross rose, and with his incongruously quick, lazy grace strode to the filing cabinet along the wall, pulling out documents and pamphlets. He plumped them in a pile in front of Kirk. "Most of the factual information we have is in these. You can try the library, too, but I doubt if you'll find anything more." He added a book to the pile. "This covers their language. You'll have two months of intensive instruction in it before you go. You were always good in your language structure courses, so I doubt that you'll have any trouble with it. You'll have another two weeks to learn the stuff in these documents, and two more weeks to rest or do whatever you like before you leave." He resumed his chair. "You're luckier than some of the others. The boy who got Proserpine will have a stack of books up to there to absorb." He gestured toward the ceiling. At the mention of Proserpine, Kirk's brown eyes darkened. Proserpine had been recently discovered, too, but that was all it had in common with Nemar. Its inhospitable surface held vast amounts of a highly valuable fuel ore, and it had been one of the places on his list. He wondered who was going there, his insides suddenly twisting with envy. He tried to keep his voice even. "I don't understand why I'm being sent to Nemar." He searched for words. After all, he couldn't exactly mention his graduating first and his record. "Is there something I don't know about? Has something valuable been discovered that hasn't been publicized, or -- " He waited hopefully. Ross's answer was flat. "No, there's nothing there that can be transported that's worth transporting." Kirk felt despair surging through him, then suddenly changing to sharp anger. "I've worked hard. I have a good record. Why are you giving me this -- this lemon? Why don't you give it to whoever graduated lowest, or better still to some older PA who bungled things somewhere, but not quite enough to be retired!" His face was burning with rage. Somewhere inside he felt shocked at himself for speaking to a Coordinator this way ; at the same time he felt a violent urge to carry it farther and sock Ross in the nose. His body was shaking... birthright Remembering the scene now as he watched Nemar swing closer, Kirk felt the anger again, time hadn't dimmed it at all. Ross must have perceived his fury, but he had shown no signs of it. Looking as friendly as ever, he had told him mildly that he did not consider Nemar a "lemon", that he had excellent reasons for sending him there, but he preferred not to tell him what they were. He wanted him to discover them for himself after he arrived. The rest of the interview had concerned itself mainly with practical information, most of which Kirk had scarcely heard through his fog of emotion. His endless speculations since then had gotten him nowhere. He had dredged out of his memory every incident that might reveal some trait for which he was being discreetly given a back seat. He recalled a roommate who had said he was going to become a living machine if he kept it up, and no machine had the right to have jurisdiction over people. But Jere had flunked out along the way, like most candidates who had an attitude like that. He went over the time he had been called to Ross's office and gently rebuked for working men under him on a project too hard. "I don't ask anything from them I don't ask of myself," he had protested. "I know," Ross had answered, "and I respect that. But you work that hard from choice." Then he had nodded in dismissal. Kirk had puzzled over these and other incidents, searching for a clue, but found nothing. All his probing in a more optimistic direction led to blind alleys also. The documents on Nemar, all the information he could dig up, confirmed Ross's statement that the planet held nothing of commercial value. The planet, to judge by what he had read, was a pleasant place, apparently very pretty, with heavy vegetation and a warm, temperate climate, and the natives were hospitable and friendly. But all this held very little comfort for him and did little to assuage the sense of angry humiliation that had made him seek isolation from the other passengers. He could see the planet more clearly now as the ship began to angle into an orbit, preparatory to sending out the smaller landing ship which would take him down. Hastily he reviewed in his mind once more the few facts he knew about the place, and shaped his tongue to the unfamiliar sounds of the native language. He fought down the feeling of humiliation, and straightened his shoulders. After all, to these people, he would he the most important person on the planet. If he was to be a big frog in a small puddle, he was still supreme administrator here, and he had no intention of letting them know his arrival signified a disgrace to him. ing ship, Kirk looked out on a cleared plain. In the foreground a group of natives were gathered to greet him, and a scattering of dark uniforms among them indicated the officials who would make up the Terran part of his staff. As the natives approached him, he noted the green-gold hair and the slightly greenish tinge to their skin, for which his studies had prepared him. Nothing in his studies, however, had prepared him for the extraordinary grace and beauty of these people. They were dressed, men and women alike, in a simple fold of bright-colored cloth circling their body from the waist and reaching a third of the way to their knees. Kirk noted, with a slight sense of shock, that the women wore nothing above the waist except for a strand of woven reeds, interlaced with shells and flowers, which fell loosely to their breasts. In these brief and primitive garments, the natives bore themselves with such imperious grace and assurance that for a moment Kirk felt as if his role had been abruptly reversed -- as if instead of being the powerful representative of a great civilization to a backward people, he were the humble primitive waiting for their acceptance. One of the older natives stepped forward from the rest, his palm outstretched, shoulder high, in greeting. "Welcome to Nemar," he said, his glance steady and gracious on Kirk's face. Kirk recognized the words of the native language with surprise. The clear, musical quality of the native's speech made his own words, harsh and grating by comparison, sound like a different language, as he replied. "Thank you. I am very happy to be here." As he spoke, he realized that the lie had for a moment felt almost like truth. For a moment he wondered if the planet's apparent primitiveness was deceptive and if its simplicity concealed a highly developed culture. But even as the hope surged through him, he remembered Ross's clear and definite statement to the contrary. Besides, there would be no point in keeping a thing like that secret from the rest of the galaxy, even if it could be done. Such a culture, moreover, would certainly have things of value to trade. As these thoughts coursed through his mind, one of the Terrans stepped forward from the crowd. The insignia on his uniform were the same as his own, and he realized, with a surge of curiosity, that this must be his predecessor. The man reached forward to shake his hand. "Hello. The name's Jerwyn." His tanned face was open and friendly, and reminded Kirk curiously of someone; he couldn't remember who. "Glad to see you." I'll bet you are, Kirk thought: your gain, my loss. "Greetings from Terra," he replied, somewhat stiffly. "Cyril Kirk." He tried to keep his vague disapproval of Jerwyn's breezy informality out of his voice. It was hard to realize this man was also a Planetary Administrator. He seemed to have lost completely the look of authority that was the lifelong mark of the PA graduate. After the various introductions and a short period of conversation, Kirk found himself seated beside birthright Jerwyn in the small ground vehicle which was to take him to his headquarters. Jerwyn immediately resumed the standard Galactic-Terran language, which he had dropped during the introductions. "As soon as I show you around a bit. I'll be off on the landing ship you came in. I wonder how Terra will seem after all this time." "Five years is a long time," Kirk ventured. "Ten." Kirk stared at him in astonishment. "You took the optional five years! Why in heaven would anyone -- " He broke off suddenly. The question might be one Jerwyn would not care to answer. He threw him a speculative glance, wondering why he had been sent here and whether he, too, was bitter. Maybe a poor record, or something in his past he didn't care to go back to... ? That didn't fit in his own case -- but then there was no knowing what did fit in his own case. Jerwyn had an alert, perceptive look that indicated considerable intelligence, but still he somehow looked inadequate. Some quality an Administrator should have was lacking... dignity? drive? Jerwyn's voice interrupted his thoughts. "Beautiful, isn't it?" The groundcar had left the plain and was entering a heavily wooded section. For the first time, Kirk took a good look at his surroundings. Some of the trees and plants were very like those he had seen in parks at home. Still, there was a definitely alien feel to it all. The trees were low and wide and had peculiar contours, different from those of trees on Terra, and their flowering foliage came in odd sizes and colors. The sky wasn't quite the blue he was used to, and the shapes of the clouds were different. He noticed for the first time a heady, pungent perfume carried on the breeze, that was both pleasant and stimulating. It came, perhaps, from the wide-petaled flowers in oddly shimmering colors that clustered thickly everywhere. "Yes, it's beautiful," he agreed, "but -- " The feeling of despair and frustration welled up in him again. The warmth he sensed in Jerwyn made him suddenly long to blurt out the whole story. He controlled himself with difficulty, as he turned toward him. "It's pretty enough. It might make a good vacation resort if it weren't on the edge of nowhere." His pent-up emotion exploded as he spoke. "But five years in this hole! I'd feel a hell of a lot better if I were looking at some rocky, barren landscape with some mines on it -- with something of value on it -- with a name somebody'd heard of, where you could hope to get somewhere. I don't want to waste five years here!" He paused for breath, staring angrily at the lush landscape. "And for that matter, life on one of those planets where you live under domes, with a sealed-in atmosphere, is probably a lot more civilized and convenient than in this primitive jungle." Jerwyn nodded slowly, an unspoken compassion in his face. "I know how you're feeling." He paused. "And it does seem pretty primitive here at first -- no automatic precipitrons for cleaning your clothes, natural foods instead of synthetics, no aircars, no automatic dispensers for food or drinks or clothes; none of a hundred things you take for granted till you don't have them. But you get used to it. There are things to make up -- " He broke off as the car began to descend into a valley. "Look!" His voice held an odd tone of affection. "There's your new home." Kirk gazed downward at the settlement nested in the valley below them. He fished in his pocket for a magnascope to bring the view nearer and stared curiously, as the lens adjusted to the distance. He picked out groups of buildings, low units of some coarse, natural material, widely spaced. This was the largest city on the planet, he knew, but it seemed to be little more than a village. It was undoubtedly primitive -- very primitive. Remembering the magnificent high buildings of Terra, he was filled with sudden homesickness for the speeding sidewalks crowded with people, the skylanes humming with aircars. Turning the magnascope here and there, he kept his gaze trained on the town beneath him, studying it now in more detail. Slowly, some of his depression began to leave him, and he felt a strange sense of warmth begin to take its place. He stepped up the power of the glass till he could see the inhabitants walking in the streets. Like the natives who had met him at the landing ship, they walked with a beautiful, easy grace, a sumptuous ease that seemed somehow almost a rebuke of his own stiffly correct military posture. They gave an impression of combined leisure and vitality. Gradually, as he watched, an odd feeling of nostalgia began to stir in him, an old, childish longing. He remembered suddenly a dream he had had years ago, in which he had run laughing through green meadows with a lovely girl. He had fought against waking from it and returning to his desk piled high with books and his ascetically furnished room. He blinked his eyes and put down the magnascope. "Rather attractive, in a way," he said grudgingly to Jerwyn. He settled back slowly into his seat. "Just the same," he added, annoyed at himself for his sentimental lapse, "how have you managed to stand it all this time? I still can't figure how I came to get it in the neck like this." Abruptly, he plunged into the words he had been holding back, telling the whole story of his confusion to Jerwyn. He rationalized to himself that perhaps Jerwyn could help him solve the mystery. At least he might tell him how he himself came to be sent to Nemar, without his having to ask directly; and this might give him a clue. "I've been over the whole busiit out," he concluded. "Somebody with pull must have had it in for me. But who? And why? I never had any real run-ins with Ross. In fact. I'd always thought he liked me." He scowled. "Of course, he gives practically everybody that impression. Maybe he's just a professional glad-hander, though he certainly doesn't seem like it." He shook his head. "Maybe that's the secret of his success; I never could figure out how he got where he is. He certainly doesn't seem typical enough, but there's a quality about him I'd almost call -- weak, I guess. Unsuitable for his post, anyway. He treats the janitor the same as -- " Kirk stopped abruptly. He suddenly had the answer to the question that had been nagging at the edge of his mind: it was Ross that Jerwyn reminded him of. Trying to cover up his confusion, he went on rapidly, hoping Jerwyn would not notice. "Anyway, whatever his reasons were, he's played me a dirty trick, and if there's ever any way I can pay him back for it. I'll do it. I'll have five years to think about it. Me ! The fair-haired boy of the Institute! On my way to the top!" His face flushed with resentment. "Sent to sweat out five years in this Godforsaken place with a bunch of savages hardly evolved out of the jungle!" He passed his hand over his forehead, wiping off sweat, feeling the full force of his pent-up anguish and rage flood through him. Jerwyn spoke very quickly. "I felt pretty much the same way when I was sent here. But I feel differently now. I could try to explain. But I don't think it's a good idea. I don't think anyone could have explained to me. This is a place you've got to live in; you can't be told about it." He shifted in his seat as a small group of buildings came into view. "As for Ross -- well, he was responsible for my being sent here, too, and I spent some time when I first came, thinking of ways to cut his body in little pieces and throw them in a garbage pulverizer -- but I wouldn't waste my time if I were you. I know now he had his reasons." As he spoke the car pulled to a stop. "Well, here we are. This is where you'll be living and working." Jerwyn stayed with Kirk while he was shown through various buildings. He found most of the office buildings full of bright murals and little watered patios, but lacking the simplest devices for working efficiency. He was introduced to various officials, Terran and Nemarian. Some of the latter, to his surprise, were women -- a rare phenomenon for a primitive planet, he remembered from his classes. By the time the touring was over and he had said goodbye to Jerwyn, he was too tired to do more than glance briefly at the quarters to which he was shown. Left alone in his rooms, he took a quick, awkward bath, too weary to feel more than a brief annoyance at the lack of automatic buttons for temperature controls, soaping, and drying, and fell exhausted on the low bed. F or a moment, as he woke, Kirk could not remember where he was. Drowsiness mingled with a sense of eeriness at the sound of long bird-calls unlike any on Terra and the unfamiliar rustling of leaves ; the rays from the late iternoon sun seemed too crimson. Then, as sleep fell from his eyes, he remembered. He glanced at the window above his bed from which the orange light filtered into the room and saw it was completely open to the outside air. Something would have to done about that, he thought grimly, or he'd never be able to sleep with an easy mind. There were always people, sooner or later, who hated you if you had power; or if they didn't hate you, they at least wanted you out of commission for one reason or another. He sat up to take a better look at the room he had been too tired to investigate before. There were mats of woven reeds, and low carved chests, and flowers ; the walls were clean and glimmering, and bare except for a single picture of two young native children. He got up and walked over to look at it more closely. A boy of about seven was holding his arm out to a girl, slightly younger, to help her on to the low, swaying branch on which he was sitting. The picture was full of sunshine and green leaves and happiness, and you could feel the trusting softness of her arms reaching up to him. An odd picture, Kirk thought. The children looked childlike enough, but the emotions looked adult. As he looked at it, he heard a soft, swishing sound in the next room, and stiffened. There was no lock on the door, he noticed. Well, it was time to get up, anyway. He dressed hurriedly, trying to remember the layout of his rooms. Except for the bathroom, he recalled only one other room, a sort of arbored porch, one side completely open to the air, with a low table and some cooking equipment at one end. As he opened the door, a faint whisk of something made of reeds went out of sight. A primitive broom, he thought, with a faint sense of relief. Some servant was tidying the house. He opened the door further -- and stared, A native girl was standing before him. She was extraordinarily lovely. The gold-green hair of her race rippled and flowed in waves over her bare back and shoulders down to the circlet of vermilion cloth girdling her thighs. The band of small shells that circled her throat was netted with wide orange and red flowers that halfhid, halfdisclosed the firm naked breasts. The light brown, gold-flecked eyes beneath the gold-green eyebrows were soft ; so was the tender mouth, rosecolored against the flawless skin, with its undertones of faint green. Her body, too, looked soft and yielding, but was borne with imperious grace that somehow dignified even the broom held loosely now in one delicate hand. Kirk stared at this vision of beauty, taken by surprise, and found himself caught up in sudden desire. She was like something out of a dream. He tried to get hold of himself. You're just not used to half-nude women, he told himself. You're used to girls in uniforms, crisp, businesslike uniforms. A wild suspicion caught at the edge of his mind. He didn't know anything about this planet, really -- except that there was something he didn't birthright know. Maybe they made a practice of diverting their rulers with beautiful women. She certainly didn't look like a servant. He smiled at the thought that came to him : this servant was the first indication of the luxury befitting a Planetary Administrator. The thought enabled him to gain control of himself again. He regained a semblance of his customary reserved look. "Good afternoon," he said, in the native language. She smiled and held out her hand. He hesitated, then held out his own awkwardly. Did one shake hands with one's servants here? He wished he'd asked Jerwyn for more advice about protocol. She took his hand and pressed it lightly for a moment. "I am Nanae." Her voice was low and musical. "I am going to clean and take care of your house." She turned and with exquisite precision gestured toward the low table and cooking equipment at the end of the room. "I thought you would be waking soon. I have prepared some jen for you." Jen? he thought. Oh, yes, a. very light stimulant -- the local variety of tea. He walked over to the low table and sat down, fighting the impulse to enter into conversation with her. He watched her as she poured the hot liquid into wide cups of polished gourd, her hair radiant about her shoulders. A stab of longing shot through him. The long years of training in the Institute paraded through his mind, the years of strict routine, hard work, ascetic, bare rooms, with women considered playthings that took too much time from needed study; the only beauty was the dream of power among the glittering stars. Well, he wasn't going to give up and forget the dream, he told himself -- and he wasn't going to be led astray by any pretty girls, particularly a maid. Hell, he thought suddenly, maybe Ross is testing me. Maybe he picked the worst planet in the whole damn galaxy to find out if I could do something with it. It's obvious if I can get this place on the trademaps, I can handle anything. He looked speculatively at the girl as she pushed the cup toward him. He wondered how she came by her job. Did they hold beauty contests here for the honor of being cleaning woman in the PA's household? He realized he was feeling more cheerful. The jen and the soothing quietness of the girl's presence were doing him good. He felt a resurgence of his old energy and ambition that the interview with Ross had quelled for so long. "Did you work for Jerwyn, too?" he asked. Yes, his voice was just right, courteous, but not too friendly, he thought. "No, but I knew him." She looked at him with an odd smile. "He became one of our best dancers." "Dancers!" Kirk stared at her in amazement. He started to open his mouth, then stopped. He'd better not ask any more questions till he'd had a chance to talk to some Terrans. Apparently, Jerwyn had gone native. Maybe it was his way of rebelling against being sent here in the first place -- and he'd let himself go so far that he'd skipped his chance of reassignment at the end of the first five years, afraid of the problems of a new post after being a beachcomber for so long. That would account for the curious lack of deference he'd found in all these people. They were friendly enough, but they lacked proper respect for his position. You weren't supposed to be friendly to a PA; you were supposed to be humbly polite. He recalled the respect and awe he'd received on the ship. As he finished his cup, he realized he was very hungry. He looked around instinctively for food. He had enough synthetics in his bags to do him for awhile, but he might as well make the plunge and start eating the native foods right away. No use coddling himself. The girl noticed the look. "I didn't prepare food for you because dinner will be served in just a little while. We eat all together, down by the river. You will hear drums to announce when the meal is ready, and you get there by walking to the end of that path." She pointed a delicate finger at a small foot-path winding by a few yards from where he sat. est at the end of the path, Kirk paused to take in the scene. Between him and the river was a wild jumble of men and women, laughing and talking, children running and stumbling over small pet animals, piles of nuts and fruits and hot foods heaped together beside small fires. Some of the people sat on straw mats, but most, simply on the ground. There were neither tables nor chairs. To Kirk it looked like utter confusion. With a sense of gratitude, he saw a tall, uniformed figure coming up to him, with a brisk, definite stride. The Terran's face was lined and firm, the kind of face Kirk was familiar with. The man with this face would be a man who stood for no nonsense, a man who was a little tough, but also fair and capable. He recognized him as he came closer. "Hello, sir. I'm Matt Cortland, your second in command," he said brusquely. "I met you this afternoon, but you met so many people then it must have been just a blur of names and faces." Kirk greeted him, feeling a sense of satisfaction that this man would be his chief assistant. He looked efficient; he should be able to help him learn the ropes and get a program of action started. "No chairs," Cortland said laconically, as they walked toward the gathering. He chose a soft spot of lavender-tinted moss near a pile of hot food and sat down, crosslegged. Awkwardly, Kirk sat down beside him, folding his legs under him stiffly. "You can be served in your rooms, of course, if you like," Cortland went on, turning to him. "These people are very obliging. Very obliging." He reached for two of the leaf-wrapped, steaming objects, handing one to Kirk. "But you probably have a better chance of influencing them if you eat birthright among them. If they can be influenced." He opened the leaf and bit into the yellow vegetable inside. Kirk looked dubiously at the object in his hand. He hoped it wouldn't make him sick. Pushing back his sense of disgust, he bit into it carefully. The Wand, sweetish flavor filled him with delightful surprise. It was rather like a mixture of sweet potato, carrot, and peach synthetics -- but the texture and flavor were new and wonderful. Maybe civilization had lost something good when it gave up natural foods. Though, of course, their preparation was time-wasting and inefficient, he reminded himself; and swallowing synthetics required only a momentary break in your work when you were pressed for time. He looked up and found Cortland watching him. "Pretty different from the food at home, eh?" He had slipped into the Terran language. "Good food and pretty girls." He gestured toward the graceful, halfnude women scattered along the mossy bank. "Everything for the lotus-eaters." The phrase meant nothing to Kirk. One of the girls came over to them with a large gourd full of fruit and nuts, and another on which she heaped hot foods from the piles on the ground as she passed. She placed them on the ground beside the two men. "Yes, everything for the lotuseaters," Cortland repeated. "Incidentally, I hope you're not under the impression that that girl is naked from the waist up." Kirk looked at him questioningly. "Oh, no. She's completely covered. They have taboos about naked breasts, just like we do." He laughed at Kirk's look of mystification. "You notice those strands of shells or woven reeds they wear around their necks?" Kirk looked around. They all wore them. "Well, that signifies they are dressed. If you ever see a native girl without one, she'll be terribly embarrassed." He stuck his hand out toward the bowl of hot food. "After you've been here long enough you'll think they're dressed, too." He laughed, then looked more serious. "I've been here a long time, getting nowhere," he said, in a different tone. "There are a lot of things that could be done here. I've spent a lot of time thinking about it. But Jerwyn -- " He hesitated. "I hope you intend to make the name of the Galactic Union mean something here." Kirk nodded, and Cortland went on. "Jerwyn tried when he first came. But after awhile he seemed to just give up. I couldn't do anything without him backing me, I don't have enough authority." He looked grim as he spoke. "And besides that, it takes more than one good man. Oh, the other GU men here are capable enough -- " He glanced toward a group of Terrans sitting nearby. "They'll be over in a little while to speak to you, incidentally; I asked them to hold off for a litde, while I briefed you a bit -- no sense deluging you with new people while you're trying to eat." "But to get back," he went on, "they're capable enough, or they were once, anyway, but none of them has the drive and brains it takes to push through a project to develop this planet. They've pretty well given up. Some of them like it here and some of them don't, but they've all stopped trying." A look of contempt crossed his face. "They go through the motions of doing some work to earn their salaries, knock off at noon, and spend their time lying around on the beaches with Nemarian girls. I've done what I could to keep a semblance of discipline, but it's uphill work." Kirk looked at him steadily. "All that's going to be changed." Cortland smiled. "Good." Their eyes met, with understanding. "And I'm very happy to have a man of your caliber with me," Kirk said quietly. Cortland gave him a long look. "Maybe you've got what it takes. Maybe you have." He nodded slowly. "I should have told you I don't entirely blame the men. This planet's a tough nut to crack." His voice was grim. Kirk felt a vague uneasiness, but his look stayed determined. "We'll crack it." "We've been here forty years, and we haven't made a dent. They're funny people, these Nemarians. They're really alien. I've been here fifteen years, and I don't understand them any better than when I came." "That's quite a statement." "They're very appealing. Naive. Childlike. The soul of courtesy -- on the surface. But it's deceptive. And you could spend a lifetime trying to find out what's underneath." A young boy of about twelve came up as he spoke, setting a large gourd full of steaming liquid down smaller cups from it as he did so. Cortland nodded at him, turning again to Kirk as the boy walked away. "Even their children aren't really childlike. Did you see his eyes -- makes you damned uncomfortable." As Kirk started to answer, drumbeats began to fill the air, first softly, then louder. Strange sounds from unfamiliar instruments began to mingle with them, and a clear, high instrument added a melody. The whole effect had an alien, discordant quality for Kirk, but as he listened further he grew intrigued and began to enjoy it; a mood -- happy and romantic and energetic, all at once -- came through to him from the music. "The dancing's beginning," Cortland informed him. Kirk saw young men and women rise by ones and two's and begin swaying and turning their bodies to the music. They all seemed to be doing different things, and yet somehow it made an integrated pattern. To his surprise older people and even young children gradually joined in, and managed not to look inappropriate, although the dance movements were rapid and strenuous. He noticed a sweet, pungent odor came from the steaming bowl beside them. He picked up one of the filled cups and tried it cautiously. It was delightful. He emptied it and poured another. He felt Cortland's hand on his arm, and looked up to find him grinning at him. "Hey, take it easy with that stuff. That's fermented kara root -- the local variety of booze. They can drink quarts of the stuff and be all right; I've never seen one of them really drunk. But you'd better not try it." Kirk frowned. "Something different in our metabolism? I thought -- " "No, they're quite human," Cortland broke in. "And it's not a matter of immunity. I wondered about it for a long time -- and got quite disgracefully drunk a couple of times, keeping up with them, before I figured it out." He sipped at his own cup. "No, the secret of their success is the dancing." Kirk looked at the light, whirling figures, puzzled. Cortland smiled at his bewilderment. "It's the exercise. It bums up the alcohol as fast as they drink it. When they're having a real feast, they dance and drink all night, till they collapse from pure exhaustion. They wake up feeling fine -- not a sign of a hangover. Of course, tonight they'll only dance for a little while, so they'll only drink a little..." "Sensible, aren't they?" The voice came out of the air behind them, sardonic, feminine. The language was Terran. Kirk whirled and peered through the dusk, which was gathering rapidly. He saw a slightly amused pair of brown eyes, brunette hair, and a trim body dressed in chic good taste in expensive Terran clothes. Cortland stood up. "Mrs. Sherrin... our new Planetary Administrator, Cyril Kirk." She lowered herself to the ground, spreading out a small mat under her as she did so. "Jeannette, if you don't mind." She folded her legs under her carefully. "I don't mean to be disrespectful. But there's such a small number of us here, we need to be friends and stick together." Cortland, who had been looking away for a moment turned to them. "If you'll excuse me, someone wants to talk to me." Kirk nodded. "Did I meet your husband this afternoon?" he inquired politely, as Cortland strode off. "No; I'm a widow." "Oh, I'm sorry," he murmured. "Don't be. Not for me, I mean. We'd been coming to a parting of the ways for a long time. But let's not talk about that. How do you like the dancing?" He looked at the firelit figures, whirling in the growing dusk. "I don't know. I'm sort of overwhelmed by everything. It's all so new. I've heard so many confusing things -- " She nodded. "If you manage to make sense out of the Nemarians, you'll make history. It's better not to worry about it too much. Immerse yourself in their gay, happy life." "What do you mean?" She gave him a sharp look. "You'll find out what I mean. Didn't Cortland tell you?" "What are you talking about?" "Well, you might as well go in cold at that. Form your own conclusions as you go along. No use giving you prejudices before you start. Maybe you're the man who'll cut the Gordian knot. No use telling you it can't be done." "What can't be done?" "We'll all be rooting for you." She poured herself a drink and downed it quickly. "Great stuff, this. Makes you forget the petty annoyances of the garden-spot of the galaxy." She poured another. "To Nemar," she said, lifting it. "Now tell me about Terra. What's been happening back home?" He coidd get nothing more out of her. K irk struggled to control his irritation as the last Nemarian on his list walked in, poised and self-confident, casually unconcerned about his lateness. Something would have to be done about their sloppiness and lack of discipline, but now wasn't the time. It wouldn't do to lose his temper at the first official meeting he called. First he needed to stir some ambition in them, prod them out of their lethargy. He looked around at the assembled members of his joint TerranNemarian staff. The Terran members were making an attempt to stand stiffly at attention, somewhat awkwardly as though they were out of practice. They threw rather disconcerted looks at his stern, impassive young face. The Nemarians stood casually erect or lounged against the wall. Once more, he found himself troubled by a faint sense of incongruity. Something about these natives was not primitive. Without saying a word, just by standing and looking at him, they made him feel awkward and insecure. He straightened his shoulders and tried to make his expression even more stem. He wished he looked older. A sense of the power of his position overwhelmed him for a moment. He glanced at the speech he'd prepared, then at the faces before him. Slowly he pushed it aside. Somehow he couldn't use those formal sentences with these people. Diplomatic phrases didn't sound right in Nemarian. "Good morning," he said abruptly. "I won't waste time on preliminaries." He paused. "I've only been here a day, but so far I've seen very few signs of Terran influence -- a more or less obsolete type of ground transportation, a few tools and household conveniences, some art objects. Very little else. I don't fully understand why conditions are so backward here on Nemar when it has been part of the Galactic Union for forty years." The Terrans in the group stirred uneasily. "The important thing, however, is that the situation be changed so that Nemar may be given the benefits of galactic culture." He paused and looked around. The natives were listening courteously and looking slightly bored. The Terrans looked uneasy or embarrassed. "What prevents this change," he went on, "is the fact that there is nothing of value to export." He leaned forward. "But I don't believe that this or any planet can possess nothing of value. It's simply a matter of finding it. It's a matter of looking into new places, with new techniques, or for new things. If a sufficiently thorough search is made, something will turn up." He tried to ignore the signs of restlessness in his audience. "I'm going to organize research groups for thus purpose immediately. Each of you will head a committee to investigate the possibilities in a particular field -- fuels, plants, animal products, etc. You will bring the reports to me, and I will check them and indicate further directions of search." He continued, outlining his plans in detail, stressing the great advantages to be gained, the wonderful things galactic culture had to offer them -- the marvelous machines and labor-saving devices, the rich fabrics and jewels, the vidar entertainments, the whole fabulous technology of a great, advanced civilization. He spoke with enthusiasm, but as he continued, a growing sense of apprehension began to creep into his energetic, determined mood. Something was wrong with their reactions. He puzzled over it as he watched them file out of the room after he finished. The voice of one of his younger subordinates drifted back to him from the hall outside: "Made me homesick for good old Terra. I'd give a lot to see a good vidar-show right now..." Cortland pressed his arm lightly as he passed, nodding his approval of the proceedings. One of the Terrans lingered a moment as the last of the group left. His expression was serious. "I'd like you to know that I'm all for you, sir, and I'm glad to see a man of your stature in the PA's office," he said nervously. "I hope we'll see some changes in the attitude of these Nemarians. I've never liked their attitude." He ran a hand through his sandy-colored hair. "They're funny people, sir. You've only been here a day, and nobody may have warned you yet. They're very courteous, but don't let it fool you. You're going to have trouble with them." Kirk looked after him as he followed the others out, a sense of confusion and discouragement beginning to settle over him. He wandered slowly into the flowered patio adjoining the office. The reaction of the Nemarian officials was the strangest. They had shown no open opposition. On the other hand, there had certainly been no cheering. Their attitude had been one of courteous interest, plus some quality he couldn't quite define. He searched for the right word... something almost like compassion, as if they were humoring a child's enthusiasm for a naive, impractical project. He sat down by a clump of bluegreen flowers. Maybe he was just nervous because of his inexperience, he thought. He'd had plenty of practice experience (supervised, of course), but it was a different matter managing an isolated planet, completely on his own. And he'd had the bad luck to come after a guy who'd apparently let discipline go to pieces. Maybe it was just the newness of the whole thing. Maybe -- But he knew better. He had given them a good, efficient, well-organized plan of action. They should have been impressed -- impressed and respectful. They should have been grateful he was plunging so enthusiastically into an effort to improve their situation. They should have been excited and hopeful. There was something strange here, something he didn't understand. He knew so little about Nemar. The Terrans in the group had not reacted as they should have, either, he thought. Some of them had shown the sort of reaction he expected, but most of them had remained quiet, too quiet, with a peculiar, tolerant look. As if they knew something he didn't. There was something disturbing about their whole manner. They were respectful and deferential, but not quite respectful enough. Their attitude was just a shade too casual. Something was wrong. They even looked different, somehow, from the usual Terran on space duty. The dedicated look was gone and a softness had crept in. Somehow, the planet had infected them. T he clear-eyed old Nemarian he'd been talking to had just turned away when she came up. "Good evening. How do you like bird's eggs a la Nemar?" Jeannette pointed to the shells beside him. "Hello. They're very good." He motioned her to sit down. "The youngsters here gather them out of the trees. They make a sport of it." She reached for one from the pile near them and tapped it open. "Sentimental creatures -- they always leave one or two so the mother bird won't be unhappy." Kirk was trying to draw his eyes away from the young Nemarian mother in the group near him who was complacently nursing her baby in full view of everyone. Jeannette stared in the direction of his look. "Oh, you'll get used to that soon enough." He wondered if he would. They made a rather touching picture, though, he realized through his embarrassment. There was a lot of tenderness in the woman's gestures. "They spoil their children rotten." Kirk looked surprised. "The ones I've seen have been very courteous." She shrugged. "Oh, they're polite enough. But just try and make them do something they don't want to! They're completely undisciplined -- they're fed when they please, they sleep when they please, they do whatever they like. They have schools for them, but it's completely up to the children whether they want to go or not. The parents haven't a thing to say birthright about it. No one ever lays a hand to them, no matter what they do." "I haven't noticed any quarreling," he said, surprised at his own observation. It was true. He hadn't seen a sign of it, even between the children themselves, though they made enough noise yelling and romping. "Oh, those tactics fit them perfectly for this society," she said indifferently. "The adults here are just like the children. Nobody ever does any work." "But that's impossible. The food, the houses, the -- " "Well, I suppose I exaggerated. They do things they don't like once in awhile, if they want the end product enough. But mostly, if they can't make a big game of it, they don't do it. Tomorrow's nut-gathering day," she added irrelevantly. "Nut-gathering day?" "Yes. Everybody frolics off into the hills to pick nuts. Like a picnic. That's what I mean -- if they didn't consider it a pleasure outing, the nuts could hit them on the head, and they'd never bother to pick them up." She cocked her head at him. "Want to go?" "Go where? Nut-gathering, you mean?" He laughed. "No, thanks." "Thought you might like to study the natives in their day-to-day activities, get the real local flavor. You might learn something, at that. Though I guess you'd have a rough time climbing the trees." "I've had an hour a day at gymnastics for the past three years." "Yes, you look in good shape." Her glance swept over him approvingly. "But gymnastics and those trees are two different things. The edible nuts grow on the tall trees, not the short ones, and they sway in the wind. The young men do most of the climbing. They're pretty wonderful physical specimens, I'll say that." She glanced at one of them near by, who was whispering in the ear of a Nemarian girl. Kirk felt oddly annoyed. They were magnificent physical specimens, he thought. But then so were the women and children. He realized that he hadn't seen a sickly or weak-looking native since he arrived. Even the old people kept their magnificent posture, and managed to make age seem a matter of gathering wisdom instead of collecting infirmities. Weren't they ever sick, he wondered. "The girls are lovely, too," he reminded her. "Yes, but try to get near one of them," she flashed back. "They prefer their own." Her eyes narrowed. "They're pleasant people, but they're not pleasant to live with. It gets on your nerves after awhile." "Why didn't you leave, Jeannette?" "On the spaceship you came on?" "Yes. There may not be another for five years." "That's the big question," she said slowly. "I'm not sure I know the answer. I half intended to leave on the ship when it came. But when it came down to it, I didn't leave." She stared ahead of her. "Something about the place gets you. Maybe it's the lif. Maybe you get used to lying around in the sun, and you feel kind of frightened at returning to all the hustle and bustle of Terra. And then, you keep waiting, hoping that -- " "Hoping what?" For a moment, she looked defenseless and a little hurt. Then the cynical smile came back. "You don't even know what you're hoping for, really," she said lightly. He knew she was evading him. He lay in bed later, wondering what Jeannette could have meant, what could accoimt for that brief hurt look. She was an attractive girl, he thought idly. He wondered why he felt nothing for her, when the native girl aroused in him such an unreasonable longing. It would be a good deal more convenient to fall for Jeannette. He couldn't afford to get mixed up with his maid. Remembering her, he suddenly felt his body trembling. All right, he told himself, so she's an ignorant, backward native on a planet nobody ever heard of. Practically a savage. And even here, she's just a maid, a cleaning woman. Nobody a Planetary Administrator could think about getting mixed up with. But how do they turn them out like that? How do they turn them out like that, he thought -- every movement fluid, every position graceful, every gesture exquisite? How does this nonentity of a planet turn out a girl with the kind of walk the videostars back home practice and work years to approach? With a voice with that indescribable music and precision? With a flawless skin, radiant hair, a serenity auid self-confidence that would make the greatest beauties on Terra envious? With a quiet, careless pride that made him, the new ruler of her planet, awkward and insecure in the presence of his own servant? Jeannette had been jealous, he realized suddenly. She was jealous of these girls, of their grace, of their radiance. Her cynicism covered a bitter envy. For a long time he lay there, trying to sleep, haunted by Nanae's luminous eyes. H e started working the next morning. There was no use putting it off, he thought. Nemar seemed to act like a drug, gradually depriving you of your drive and ambition. He wasn't going to give it a chance to let its poison seep into him. He flung himself into his duties as Planetary Administrator with a grim determination. He struggled to organize the affairs of the planet on a more efficient basis. He introduced new methods and techniques. He worked tirelessly, relentlessly, hardly noticing their passage as one day followed another. And every moment he could spare, he devoted to the project for finding something of value to export. He was going to put this planet on the map. He didn't know how yet, but he was going to do it. He was going to turn his misfortune into a triumph. Every hint of a possibility was birthright followed up with eagerness. Every lead, every clue, was the subject of exhaustive study and investigation. His days were a succession of guarded hopes and disappointments, of surges of optimism and long stretches of discouragement. He pushed his wearied body into greater and greater efforts, working unflaggingly through the day and most of the night, spurred by the anger that still burned in him. The natives, he knew, looked at the light burning late into the night and thought he was a little crazy. He gave up eating with them. It was too easy, there by the river, to drift into staying later and later, drinking their hot wine, chatting, watching the dancing. It was too hard to resist tihe temptation of midnight swimming later with the young men and women at the nearby beach, with revels and bonfires on the lavender sands afterward. At the end of two weeks, he sat on his bed, taking stock of what he had accomplished. It was very little. And he was very tired. The tiredness was familiar. It was just like school all over again, he thought, the same long exhausting hours of driving oneself relentlessly. He wondered when he'd be able to relax. He didn't dare relax now. When he had a lead, a definite hope of some kind, he could begin to let up. But not till then. It would be too easy to give up and let go altogether, go the way Jerwyn had gone. He was beginning to understand why Jerwyn had given up. He was beginning to understand a lot of things -- the odd, cryptic remarks he had heard about the natives when he first arrived, the mixed admiration and exasperation they seemed to arouse. He remembered a man named Gandhi from ancient Indian history. The Nemarians could have given Gandhi lessons. Working with them was like working with an invisible wall of resistance that weakened here and strengthened there, gave in unexpectedly at one place and resisted implacably at another. At times his plans were praised; then they were put into eflfect with an efficiency that astonished him. At other times they were criticized, in a casual, friendly manner that enraged him. Then they were not put into effect at all. When he insisted on obedience, the natives reacted with an attitude of patient tolerance, and did nothing. Most of the time, his orders were received indifferently and carried out with an agonizing slowness. He pushed and prodded them. He reasoned with them. He shouted at them. He reaped nothing but frustration. They didn't hate him. He knew that. He had never seen a trace of malice in their expressions. People smiled at him when he passed, and children came up to tug at his hand and ask him to come to visit their house. There was none of the stony hatred here he knew existed in many places for the allpowerful Galactic Union. They simply seemed to lack all appreciation of the importance of his position. Yet they knew, he thought. They knew he had what amounted to almost unlimited power over their planet. They knew a space-fleet that had burned life off the face of entire planets lay at his disposal. They knew he could crush any rebellion instantly. But, of course, they weren't rebelling, he thought. They weren't even openly uncooperative. There it was again : they weren't even unfriendly; they deluged him with constant invitations. They knew of his power, but they acted as if it didn't exist. And he wasn't sure they weren't going to win with him, as they had with Jerwyn. The Galactic Union did not look with approval on any call for aid except in a military crisis; such a request was in effect an affidavit of failure. Besides, he didn't want to complain. He didn't want to set himself against them. He was working for them, not just for himself. He sighed and began to get ready for bed. Primitive people had always fought progress and change. They had always clung to old, outworn methods. But there was more to it than that, he thought. Primitive people were usually full of superstitious fear of change, but the Nemarians were not afraid. You couldn't think of them as fearful. They knew the danger -- they knew the strength and power that faced them -- but they were not afraid. They didn't even "handle with care". Where did their courage come from? Or was it just blind stupidity, he thought, a refusal to look facts in the face, to admit that they were the helpless, backward subjects of an immensely more powerful and more advanced civilization? He pulled off a shoe absently, and he thought of all the documents and reports he had read about Nemar. Ross had given them to him, and he had searched in them for a clue to help him understand why Ross was sending him here. He had read and reread them, and they had told him little more than Ross himself about Nemar. There was something peculiar about all those documents, he thought, something odd about the way they were written. They described an undeveloped planet without valuable resources or any kind of technology, in no way out of the ordinary. But between the lines was something that said this planet was out of the ordinary, in spite of the apparent facts. There was the unavoidable feeling that something was left unsaid. What were they trying to hide? Why hadn't they let him know what he was in for? Terrans had been coming for forty years. In forty years, they must have learned something. They must have found out something about what made these people the way they were, and about how to deal with them. There should have been warnings and suggestions and birthright at least, if nothing else, descriptions of methods that had been tried and failed. It should all have been there, out in the open; it should have been down in black and white: this is the situation, so far as we know it; these are the problems. Instead, there had been only routine description, and veiled hints and allusions. He hadn't been here long, he thought. There was a lot to learn here yet. The other Terrans, the ones who had been here a long time, knew something he didn't know. He could tell from their faces, from their attitude toward him. Cortland didn't know, or he would have told him, and some of the others didn't either, but most of them did. They knew something, but whether it was pleasant or unpleasant knowledge, he couldn't tell. Whatever it was, it affected them. They neglected their work, and they had a different look from the Terrans back home. Jerwyn had known, and he hadn't told him. He'd said he'd have to live here to find out. He lay down and stretched out wearily on the bed. Well, the answers here exist, he thought. Somehow, when he had all the pieces, the jigsaw would have to fit together and make a coherent picture. Maybe he was looking in the wrong direction. But he didn't know where to look. He thought of the day he had just been through, remembering incident after incident when he had had all he could do to keep his temper under control. Annoyance welled up in him again, as he recalled the series of frustrations, the useless arguments. His mind was still revolving in #in upheaval of confusion and anger as he fell asleep. when he awoke. He tried to fall asleep again and failed. Giving up, he dressed and wandered into the other room and the garden beyond. He felt the early morning coolness slipping over his shoulders like a garment, and a sense of the futility of all his struggling filled him. He felt a sudden longing to rest, bask in the sun, live as the natives did in sunny, amiable unconcern. He stiffened, annoyed at himself. That would mean giving up everything he had worked so hard for all his life, ending up as a lazy failure. He felt a surge of anger inside him toward something he could hardly name. As he stood there, he saw two Nemarian children, a boy and a girl about five years old, emerge from the trees and begin to pick the shimmering flowers in the garden. Irritation rose hotly in him. He knew that it was out of proportion, built out of a hundred frustrating incidents, but he found he didn't want to control it. He wanted to lash out at somebody. "Stop stealing my flowers!" he yelled. He was surprised at the harshness of his own voice. The children did not start fearfully or run, as he expected. They turned and stared at him in an unconcerned manner. "You can't steal flowers," the boy said matterof-factly. "They don't belong to anybody." He looked at Kirk questioningly. "You didn't plant them, did you?" Kirk stared at him, speechless. The boy went on, his tone slightly indignant. "Anyway, it's very rude of you to speak to us like that!" "They are quite right," an angry voice cut in. !lrk whirled around to find Nanae standing beside him, a basket in her hand. Her hair, radiant in the sunlight, was caught back from her face with a green ribbon, and the brown, gold-flecked eyes, for once, were not soft, but sparkling with anger. "These are my sister's children," she said icily. "They help me gather flowers for your table. Do you think just because they are young you have the right to treat them without respect?" Staring at her angry face, Kirk felt his own anger ebbing. Into his mind a forgotten incident flashed back from his childhood. Through a door left ajar in a neighboring apartment he had seen a ripe purple fruit imported from a newly discovered planet, and had taken it, curious to find out what unsynthetic food might taste like. He had been discovered, and angrily whipped and locked in his room. He remembered wiping away the tears, alone in his room, smarting with humiliation, and vowing he would show them, he would show them all; he would grow up to be so powerful he could have anything he wanted, and everybody would be afraid of him. He looked now at Nanae, who had put an arm around each of the children, cradling them to her. His anger left him completely. Remembering the hurt child he had once been, he foimd himself longing for the touch of softness and kindness that had never come to him, wishing that even now for a moment he could take the children's place -- lay his head against her breast, and feel her fold him in and brush her hand through his hair. He felt something melting inside of him. He could feel the lines of his face softening as he looked at them. The words stuck, but he forced them out. "Fm sorry." "It's all right," said the boy. Leaning down, Kirk put an arm tentatively around each of the children, half-surprised at himself for the gesture. As he felt their small bodies relax against his, it seemed as though some deep inner tension began to flow out of him. He straightened up to find Nanae's glance on him surprisingly warm, almost tender. The approval in her eyes filled him with an unfamiliar kind of happiness. "You mean Ross spent five years here!" Kirk stared in amazement at Cortland, sitting beside him. The older officer turned toward him, shifting his position on the grassy ledge to which they had climbed for a look at the surrounding countryside. "Yes, that's right. Ross was straight out of the Institute then, had an A-I record, and this place had just been discovered. They thought then it might have all sorts of valuable minerals and things. It seemed like a great chance." He shrugged. "As it turned out, of course, there was nothing, but nobody could have known then." "They know now," Kirk said shortly. He sat looking over the valleys beneath them, silent for a moment. It was discouraging to learn Ross had been here and had not turned up anything: Ross was capable, whatever else he might be, and it would take luck as well as work to succeed where he had failed. And his luck didn't seem to be working out too well, he thought, unhappily. But this might throw some new light on why he'd been sent here. Maybe Ross's reason for sending the Institute's star pupil had been one he could never have guessed at the time -- a gesture of sentimentality. Maybe he wanted to help these people with whom he had spent his first years as an Administrator. Maybe he wanted to make up for his own failure to help lift their living standairds. He turned toward the other man. "Cortland, you say you've done a lot of traveling here. How about the rest of the planet? Are any of the other villages more advanced; are the people any dififerent?" Cortland laughed shortly. "Thinking of hiring yourself a new native staff? Your impatience about worn out bucking this one? Can't say I blame you, but it's no go. All these villages are the same. One outfit's as bad as the next. Oh, they go in for different things -- one will go all out for sculptures, one will be great on weaving, and another one maybe will grow a special kind of fruit. But the people are all alike -- all equally charming and equally impossible. All sweet and friendly on the surface and stubborn as mules underneath. All acting like they know something they're not talking about, like they've got some secret hidden behind those clear, guileless eyes of theirs, some source of strength that makes them able to tell us to go to hell -- figuratively, of course -- when they don't like our orders." He leaned forward, intently. "I'd give a lot to find out what makes them tick." A look of inseciurity, almost of anxiety filled his eyes. A sudden gust of wind blew a flurry of leaves against Kirk's face. He brushed them away, feeling chilled. Cortland blinked his eyes, and his face resumed its customary firm look. "But to get back to your question -- this village here is supposed to be a center of government. When the Nemarians have to decide on anything that affects the whole planet, the Council in this village does it. The Council has nothing to do with the Galactic Union setup, of course. It's strictly local, was here before GU discovered this place. You probably studied up on it before you came here." Kirk nodded. Every planet with an indigenous population had its own political set-up. It was GU policy not to interfere with them, unless their interests clashed in some way. Cortland went on. "Anyone who birthright likes being in on that sort of thing packs up and emigrates to this village. I don't know whether you've noticed, but these people are pretty casual about moving from one town to another. Anyway, when your would-be politician gets here, the people take him in and watch him awhile, and then, if they like him all right, he's put on the Council. What a system! The truth is, most of the Nemarians consider political work something of a nuisance and would just as soon somebody else did it. They don't care for power the way we do. They look on it as just a heavy responsibility and a burden." Kirk shifted his leg uncomfortably, feeling a bit self-conscious. "By the way," Cortland added casually, "how are you getting on with that girl?" "What girl?" "That beautiful creature who keeps house for you." "Nanae?" "Yes, Nanae. The beauty of the village, the girl who cooks breakfast for you, the head of the Council -- " "What did you say? What was that about the Council?" "She's head of the Council. Didn't you know?" "How can she be? She's a maid, she -- " "They don't have maids here. She's being neighborly. And they have sort of a "power corrupts" philosophy here. If you're in a position of authority, you're sort of expected to go out and do humble tasks for people once in awhile, so you won't get to feeling above them. These people like to keep everyone on the same low -- " "But head of the Council !' Kirk broke in. "She's just a young girl!" "So what? You're just a young man." "But -- " "Sorry for the levity. But they let women do everything here. They've got equality of the sexes, old man. They -- " We'd better be starting back," Kirk broke in. He rose to his feet. He walked silently down the hill beside Cortland, his head whirling. lage, he left Cortland as quickly as he could and hurried in the direction of his house, incoherent thoughts tumbling over each other in his mind. His face burned as he remembered his condescension, the way he had fought his desire for her by holding her off with curt remarks, indicating with raised eyebrows that he wished no personal conversation. He thought of the occasional glint of amusement he had seen breaking through her serene courtesy. Why had she kept coming, he wondered. He saw, with a start, that he was nearly to his house, and he realized he had been hoping Nanae would be there. He had to talk to her, though he had no idea what he would say. As he drew closer, he saw a flicker of motion inside the porch. He walked forward quietly, and then stood a moment watching her, silently. She had her back to him and was sweeping, as she had been that first time he saw her. Her thighs were wrapped in soft, violet cloth, and a cascade of violet flowers jeweled the lovely hair which rippled and swirled down her back and shoulders. Not a wasted motion, he thought, not a gesture that isn't beautififl. He wondered why he had ever felt sweeping a floor was a menial task. She moved like a great dancer. She turned as he watched and saw him. "Hello." She smiled, and he felt himself tremble a little. "I just heard about you -- about your being head of die Council," he blurted out. "I want to apologize; I didn't know, I -- " "What difference does it make?" She looked genuinely puzzled. "I thought you were a maid, a... a sort of person who waits on other people, on Terra," he tried to explain. "I didn't know you were just doing this to be kind. I've been very rude. I -- I hardly know what to say..." Her eyes widened. "Do you treat people who clean your houses on Terra one way and officials another? You are funny, you Terrans." "Yes, I guess we are funny." He searched for words. "This is the first time I've really talked to you, isn't it?" She smiled. "We've just been people in the same room." She spoke gently. "I've seen you were unhappy and confused under that roud manner. I wanted to help, ut you weren't ready to let anyone help." "Why did you keep coming?" He waited anxiously for her answer. "I liked you." Her glance was half-tender and a little amused. "And I knew you wanted me here, even though you tried not to show it." She paused. "There was another reason, too." "What was it?" "You know Marlin Ross lived here once?" He nodded. "Well, there was a note from him on the spaceship you came on. It was addressed to my father, asking him to take care of you. He and Ross were good friends. But my father is dead now, and so the letter was given to me." "And so you've been taking care of me." "Yes." "But I'm sure he didn't mean it literally -- taking care of my house and fixing my food and -- " "No, of course not. He just meant to take care of you, give you what you needed. But you needed this. You needed to be waited on a little." "I guess I did." He could find nothing adequate to say, "Thank you." There was a moment of silence. She put aside the broom, which was still poised in one hand. "Let me make you some jen. You look tired." "Thank you." Kirk sat down, with a deep sigh, and leaned back, watching her precise, exquisite movements, as she prepared the hot liquid. He found himself longing to touch her, to reach out and feel the soft, supple flesh, the rippling hair. The sight of her beautiful, firm breasts moving as she worked tortured him. The low birthright necklace that signified they were covered didn't work very well for him, he thought. The flowers twined into it kept falling aside as she bent and turned, tantalizing him more. He pulled his eyes away, and forced himself to think of other things. She had been very kind, he realized. She hadn't made him feel like a fool. H e stood waiting for the last of the staff to assemble, letting the feel of triumph course through his body. He felt heady, exultant, a little drunk with joy. This was his moment. This made it all worth while -- the long hours, the sleepless nights, the relentless work, the struggle. They would see. They would see he hadn't been driving himself and them for nothing. He stared down for a moment at the piece of ore which he had brought to show them. It contained unpolished zenites. Nemar possessed zenites, the fabulous gems valued all over the galaxy for their shimmering, glowing beauty of changing color. Infinitely more precious and rare than diamonds, they served often as a galactic medium of exchange, where weight was important. A handful of them could be worth the whole cargo of a trading ship. He was not surprised that no one had found the ore deposits before. They were the products of immense and peculiar pressures and no appreciable amount of the ore was ever found except very deep underground. He was very glad now he had specialized in geology and minerology instead of social structure and alien psychology. Otherwise, the geologic reports he had received of the area would have seemed perfectly routine and ordinary. The nagging feeling that there was something a little unusual about the soil analysis would never have come into consciousness as a definite, tremulous hunch. He could have sent Cortland or one of the others out there with the tools and instruments to dig and make test after test, searching several feet under the surface for the elusive end-trail of a lode. But he had wanted to go himself. He had packed and prepared for the twoday trip, steeling himself against the disappointment he was almost sure to receive. He looked at the faces of his staff members, all present now, thinking of that first meeting with them and the peculiar reception his plans had received. Now it would be different: now everything he had asked of them was justified. Drawing a long breath, he began to tell them what had happened. As he went on, his fiery enthusiasm began to waver. His voice boomed too loudly in the quiet room. Once or twice his words faltered, as he glanced at the dispassionate face of a native. As he finished, he looked around, a sense of dismay and fear creeping into his feeling of triumph. They had listened too quietly. Only Cortland and a few other Terrans had shown any indication of the excitement and jubilation he expected. The others seemed unimpressed and imdistiurbed. With a sinldng feeling in the pit of his stomach, he called for discussion. There was a pause. Finally, one of the older Nemarians spoke. "This is a very important matter. If these mines are put into operation, it will affect the lives of everyone on Nemar. I must ask that you give us a little time to tliink over the implications." He spoke courteously, but Kirk knew the request would have to be respected. He wanted to shout at them, to ask them to understand this wonderful thing that had happened, to tell them they were going to be rich! But this was the way they did things, and tliis was the way it would have to be done. He pushed down the impatience burning in him. "Will a day do?" The Nemarian hesitated a moment, then nodded. "Very well. A day should be enough." fCirk watched them file out a few minutes later. He wondered where his sense of elation had gone. Apprehension filled him again as he watched the staff assemble die next morning. The faces of the Nemarian members increased his discomfort. Why didn't they look happier, more excited? Why should they look at him with that unspoken sympathy in their eyes. He was afraid to hear what they had to say. The native who had spoken the day before moved forward a little. "We're very sorry," he said gently. Kirk felt his heart sinking. "We realize that you have worked very hard in what you consider to be our interests. We hoped you would come up with something more acceptable than these mines. But we cannot put the plans for mining these gems of yours into operation. We are very sorry," he said again, "but the Council has voted against it." "The Council!" Kirk stared at him. He fought to control his voice. "You know perfectly well that the power of my command is supreme over any local councils of whatever natime." He stiffened. "But that isn't the point. I guess I haven't made things clear to you somehow. These gems -- which you refer to as if they were a child's baubles -- can make this insignificant planet a power in the galaxy. They can make the name of Nemar respected throughout the whole Galactic Union. You can trade them." He spoke each word slowly and carefully as if he were explaining to a child. "I'm not haying expensive machinery constructed and sending you down hundreds of feet into the ground so that your women can wear these jewels. They're extremely pretty, but you probably feel the flowers the girls pluck and put in their hair do just as well for ornaments, and perhaps you're right." He paused, trying to hold on to his temper. "It will be dark and dusty and uncomfortable down in those mines, as I told you yesterday when you asked about it. It will be hard work, and I know you're not fond of hard work." He could not keep the sarcasm out of his voice. "But I assure you, it will be worth it. A really good specimen of one of these little gems (he underlined the word) can buy half the cargo of a spaceship. These jewels can make it worthwhile for the great trading ships to swarm through space out to this isolated fragment of the cosmos. You can acquire the technologies of other planets with them. The evolution of this planet can be speeded up a dozen times. You can become of importance in the scheme of things, leave this backward, primitive way of life behind you." As he paused for breath, one of the Nemarians spoke quietly. "We don't want to push ahead that fast." He looked at Kirk serenely. "We are interested in improving conditions here, of course. We want to acquire things that will make our lives more pleasant and luxurious. Some day we wish to become a highly developed society, technologically. We wish growth and change -- but only very slowly, very carefully. We want to be very, very sure we do not bring in pain when we bring in new pleasures. We need to study each new change to see what it might mean." He paused. "In this case, it took very little study. This mining project would mean the young men would be put to backbreaking labor in underground, unhealthy conditions. There might be circumstances which could justify such a thing. But not for jewels which are intrinsically worthless." "Worthless! I just told you -- "I mean they are not valuable in themselves. You can make cheap, synthetic jewels that are almost as beautiful, can't you?" "YeSj of course, but -- " "So they are only valuable because they are rare, because you call them valuable, because they show the people who buy them have enough money to buy them. Wearing them is really a way of saying, Fm rich, to everyone who sees you." He shrugged. "We don't care about that sort of thing here." Kirk clenched his fists in frustration. Maybe he should have specialized in alien psychology. He made another try. "I know you don't. That's not the point. The point is that you can trade them for other things, for -- " The older native who had announced the Council decision broke in again. "As you said, the mining is very hard, disagreeable work. We feel that when you begin to do disagreeable things for an end that is not valuable in itself, you are beginning to tread a dangerous path. There is no telling where it will end. One such situation leads to another. We might end up cooped up in a room all day, shut away from the sun and air, turning bolts on an assembly line to make machines, as we have heard often happens on Terra." He looked slightly shocked at the picture. "Being surrounded by technical conveniences isn't worth that." He looked at ELirk patiently, as though this should be self-evident. "On Terra and on most of the other planets we have had word of, people seem to spend their time making all kinds of things that have no value in themselves, because they can be sold or traded. Other people spend their time trying to persuade peopie to buy these useless things. Still other people spend all day making records of how many of these thin have been sold. No! This path is not for us." He shook his head. "We don't know how it came about that all these people spend their time at these unpleasant, useless things. They can't have wanted it that way. No human being could want to spend his time doing silly, pointless Aings. How could you believe in yourself? How could you walk proudly? How could you explain it to your children? We must be careful not to make the mistake of taking the first step in that direction." Kirk felt hopelessly confused. The reasoning was all wrong, but how coiJd he explain it to them? He began slowly, from another angle... H e stood there for a long time after they had left, trying to control his rage. He had tried everything he could think of. He had argued, reasoned, pleaded with them. He had raged at them, threatened them. Nothing had worked. The threats had not disturbed them. He thought of sending out an emergency beam for help. But what would he say when the ship arrived : put these people under martial law -- force them to work -- it's for their own good? He'd like to see if they could do it, he thought. He'd be betting they couldn't. He paced up and down, clenching his fists. He could have all the council members jailed, he thought. Only there weren't any jails on Nemar. Resentment burned in him. They'd let him work and struggle and slave day and night -- for this. He swung his fist into the wall suddenly, with all his might. The pain stung, but he felt a little better. He looked at the bruised hand, wondering what to do. He was too restless to go home and stay by himself, burning up with unspent rage ; and he certainly couldn't go and sit among the natives, listening to them chatter and laugh. He decided to take a walk. He heard a rustle of leaves after he had gone a little way and saw a pair of feminine legs through the underbrush. He tried to turn aside. He didn't feel like talking to Jeannette now. But she had already seen him. "Hello, there," she said, pushing aside a branch from where she was sitting. "Are you taking a walk, too? Thought you were always sticking to the old grindstone this time of day." "Hello, Jeannette." "Sit down and rest for a minute. I need some company." He hesitated, then sat down reluctantly. "You don't look too cheerful," she said, looking at him. "Something eating you?" "Just this place," he said wearily. "And the people." "Yes, it gets you after a while, doesn't it? It's pretty hard to take." He leaned against a tree and tried to relax. "It's hard to live with," she went on, "the constant sense of inferiority..." He wondered if he had heard her correctly. "What did you say?" "I said, it's hard to live with." "No, no. I meant the last part." "The constant sense of inferiority. Is something the ma -- " "What are you talking about?" "I'm talking about the Nemarians, naturally." "You surely don't consider them superior to us!" he said incredulously. "Let's not fool ourselves," she said. "There isn't one of them that isn't superior to every Terran here." He stared at her. "Of course, we do fool ourselves. I've been doing it a long time. Or trying to, anyway. But I've been sitting here thinking. Among other things, about why I didn't leave on that ship you came on, as I'd planned." "Why didn't you?" he asked. The same reason nobody else did, but Jerwyn; and he had to." "Plenty of them don't like it here," he said. "There's plenty of griping." "Not really," she said. "It's not really griping. It's just a way of making yourself feel better. Only the ones who haven't been here too long do it, and one or two others who are real old-line die-hards, like your Mr. Cortland. "Why didn't you leave?" "Because this is a good deal, of course. The climate's lovely; the scenery's beautiful; life is sort of a perpetual pleasure outing. The only trouble is, you're always on the fringesYou're the kid from across the tracks." "I don't understand." "That wasn't the right phrase, because that implies snobbishness, and they're not snobbish. But they don't quite accept you. They let you hang around; they let you play with them. But you're not really one of them." "Why on earth should you want to be one of them! They're just a bunch of ignorant primitives, while we come from the highest center of culture civilization has ever attained." "Yes, yes, I know all that. We're very good at pushing buttons and keeping in the right traffic lanes. But let's look the facts in the face. I've been sitting here making myself look the facts in the face. Have you ever seen one of them act mean?" "Well, not mean exactly, but -- " "No, you haven't. They can get plenty angry, but they don't get mean. There's a difference." He said nothing. "Have you ever seen a child here tear the wings off an insect?" She went on, not waiting for his reply. "No, you haven't. And you won't. Have you ever seen a native with a hard, cruel face? No, again. Have you ever seen one that wasn't gentle with children?" "I guess not. I never thought about it." She turned to him with an odd tremulousness in her face, replacing her usual cynical look and slightly raised eyebrows. "They love their children here. They really love them." She looked at him. "They don't scey they love them and then hit them and humiliate them because they accidentally break the vase Aunt Matilda gave the family for Christmas. Their child's happiness means more to them than any vase, than any material object. They never humiliate their children. That's why they grow up to walk like kings and queens. "They grow up being loved," she said. "They all love each other. And it isn't because they try. They don't try to be good and nice and love their fellow-men, like we do. It's just something that flows out of them. They're full of wsirmth inside, and it flows out. "And something else -- " she went on. "Have you ever caught one in a lie?" "No, but that doesn't mean -- " "People like your Mr. Cortland think they're sly and deceptive because they're always courteous, and still you can't push them around. But he's wrong. They're courteous because they're sorry for us, not because they're afraid of us." "Sorry for us?" "Yes, sorry for us. They're sorry for us because we don't know how to enjoy life, because we worry about all sorts of things that don't matter, and knock ourselves out working, and need other people to reassure us of our own worth. Because we have bad tempers and awkward bodies, and we don't have that warmth inside of us flowing out toward other people. "Even toward us," she said. "They're kind to us. They're tolerant. They want us to happy. And they do accept us eventually. If we stay here enough years. If we change. Maybe not quite as one of them, but silmost. Sometimes they even marry us." Kirk shook his head, trying to clear it. "I can't think. I feel confused, I -- " "Still thinking about our great technological achievements? We're pretty cocky about them, aren't we? We come here all set to spread enlightenment among the savages." She shrugged. "They're not impressed with our magic machines. They're not selling their planet for a handful of beads. They took a good look at us and decided to try to keep what they had." She looked at him steadily. "Personally, I've decided I can do without the vidar-shows. I'm going to stay and try to make the grade here. I'm going to work at becoming a better human being. I'm tired of being flippant and smart and sophisticated. I'd like to be happy." She paused. "Maybe a Nemarian will even fall in love with me eventually and marry me." "You want to marry one of them!" "You catch on fast." She blinked. "Sorry. That's not a very good beginning. It's going to take awhile to shake that flippancy." She caught his eyes. "Wouldn't you like to marry Nanae?" He didn't answer. She smiled oddly. "Yes, I'd like to marry one of them and have children like theirs." She hesitated. "I said once, they spoil their children rotten. I guess they do in a way, but the children turn out fine. We Terrans just aren't used to children with a sense of their rights. These children overwhelm me." She lowered her eyes. "You know how flippant I am -- when I try it in their presence I feel terribly stupid. They make me aware of every affectation; their eyes are so clear -- like a deer's -- I feel like a fool." She looked at him tremulously, defensively. "Anyway, I said that about their being spoiled, out of envy. When I first saw how their mothers held them -- all that tenderness, all that love, all that warmth -- I envied them with a terrible bitterness. It wasn't that I had bad parents. Just ordinary ones, trying to do their best and all that." "Why do you keep talking about children all the time? After all, it's the adults who run things." "The children are the adults of the future. It's the way they're brought up that makes these people what they are. You and I -- all of us from Terra -- we've been brought up on a limited, scientifically regimented, controlled amount of love. These natives have something we'll never have. We've got to work and strive for what comes as naturally to them as breathing." As' she spoke, Kirk suddenly remembered the close-packed faces of Terrans speeding by in the opposite direction on the moving sidewalks at home -- tense faces, hard faces, resigned faces, sad faces, timid faces, worried faces. Maybe one in fifty serene and self-confident, maybe one in a hundred vibrantly, joyously alive. Maybe. Probably not that many. He thought of the faces of the Nemarians. Jeannette was still talking. "They arc what human beings should be," she said slowly. "Somehow theyVe kept their birthright -- the ability to be full of the joy of living whenever they're not in real trouble or sorrow, the ability to be happy just because they're alive. I haven't understood these people because I didn't want to understand them. I didn't want to see that they were better than I am. They're very simple, really; it's we who are complicated and devious." 'Why hasn't anybody ever heard of this place?" Kirk asked. "It's isolated," she said, "and people don't leave here, once they've seen what's here. They don't write too much, either, because by the time the spaceship arrives again, they understand. They cooperate with the authorities, who are trying to keep this place as much of a secret as possible. Publicize it, and within ten years it would be swarming with wealthy businessmen on vacation and jaded neurotics trying to get away from it all. The Nemarians would be lost in the shuffle." She was still a moment. "My husband came here to get away from it all. He heard rumors of this place a long way off and traced them. I didn't want to come. I liked cities and night-clubs; I liked being surrounded by amiable, promiscuous men. He dragged me here against my will. Now he's dead, and I'm caught up in his dreams. These people are irresistible; they call out to something basic and deep in you, and you respond to it whether you want to or not. You can't leave this place -- unless you have to. like you will." Kirk stood up abruptly. "Jeannette, do you mind? I feel terribly confused. A lot has happened to me today. I want to walk alone awhile and think things out." She nodded, with a sudden look of compassion. H e walked away from her slowly, turning half unconsciously in the direction of his house. His mind was a swirl of confusion. He tried to think. He needed to get it all straightened out. The sense of inferiority, she'd said, the constant sense of inferiority. Let's not fool ourselves, she'd said. There isn't one of them that isn't superior to every Terran here. And he'd just sat there, stupefied, not denying it. Because once it was spoken, put into words, it had a certain rightness. A certain obviousness. He'd known it all the time. He hadn't let himself know it, though. He'd struggled against it, choking it back when it started seeping up from his unconscious. He'd worked so hard and kept himself so busy and exhausted he didn't have time to think. He'd thought so hard about other things he didn't have time to think about the truth. He'd arrived here looking for the answer to a mystery. Thinking maybe the planet had a secret value, hoping maybe it held an explosive or new weapon that was classified as Super Top Secret, wondering if maybe it weren't really primitive. And nobody could have told him: it does have a secret value -- secret because you're too blind to see it. Nobody could have told him ; these people are more advanced than you are. Because advanced meant machines. Advanced didn't mean happy, loving, graceful, courageous, honest. They couldn't have told him with words if he couldn't see it with his eyes -- if he couldn't see that the glowing faces of the natives held a secret worth learning. The only secret that really mattered. How to be happy. Nanae was there waiting when he reached the house, as though she had been expecting him. She looked at him silently, then smiled. "You're not angry?" "Angry?" "About the Council decision." "Oh -- oh, I was. I'm all mixed up now. I've been doing some thinking." She looked at him intently, then nodded slowly. "Do you know why you were sent here?" she asked. "I'm just beginning to get a glimmering of it." "Did you know we are the only planet yet discovered whose people have never known war?" "No, I didn't know." "Ross came to Nemar when the Galactic Union first discovered it. He didn't find any of the things he was looking for, but he did discover something else, a way of life." She paused. "Have you ever gone over his record?" "No." "You should, sometime. He's done a great deal of good." She looked at him steadily, her eyes clear and soft. "He keeps sending the very best of the Institute graduates here, hoping they'll study our society and work out some theories about what makes us the way we are. He hopes some of the happiness here can be transplanted. "We don't know why we're the way we are. We don't even know how it's possible to be any other way, and we don't understand why wars, or why they should lie or hit their children or make long speeches that don't say anything." Kirk was silent. "We're inside the problem," she said. "We can't see ourselves from the outside." Kirk spoke very slowly, thinking it out. "You mean, Ross sent me here to study you, to try to find out what factors are involved in -- "Yes. He sent you here to learn." He was quiet, digesting that. "One day you'll be in Ross's place," she said. He accepted the words quietly, knowing it was true. Yesterday, that would have seemed like the most desirable thing in the universe, the height of happiness. It seemed like a long time ago. It meant nothing now but a heavy burden. He sat thinking of Nanae after she had gone, of how he had longed to put his arms around her and draw her to him, kiss the soft mouth, run his hands through the long, glowing strands of hair. He'd have to work first, work at He wondered whether she'd be kind of person she could love. She He got up and moved toward would love differently and more the bedroom. Tomorrow was going deeply than the girls he had known, to be a busy day -- changing things. She would love with a passion and making apologies. Feasting. Danctenderness they'd never be capable ing. Going midnight swimming, of. That kind of love would have He realized suddenly that he was to be earned. very happy.    ment of Labor have shown that it costs American industry about # each year for research which enables it to give you deadlier insecticides, better weed killers, more efficient and smoother-riding cars, more rugged home appliances, better surgical instruments, more sensitive radio and television sets and the host of other newer developments that are easing the burden of life for the men and women of today. Add to this another # for research in the development of better planes for your son in the Air Force, or warmer uniforms for the boys in the Army, or better life rafts for the sailor and his buddies, or safer landing craft for the Marines. The bill adds up to the staggering total of # a year just to keep American life improving! It takes # research engineers and scientists laboring over test tubes and slide rules, blue prints and calculators, weather instruments and cyclotrons to produce these gimmicks and gadgets. And industry gets the utmost from these researchers by supplying them with a staff of technicians. About # supporting workers are busily engaged in twirling knobs, taking hourly readings and running series of long, routine tests. In short, research in this country is a big and costly business. And the organizational technique is such that it can help the country over industrial humps and bottlenecks created by war, famine, plague and cataclysm. Our Citation this month goes to the researchers, those men and women of American industry, who conceive and make the machines and instruments and products that make the standard of living in this country the finest in the world. They were used to retarded life forms, but this was the worst. Yet it is a missionary's duty to bring light where there is none. for who can tell what deviotis forms evolution might take? the ethicators T he missionaries came out of the planetary system of a star they didn't call Antares. They called it, naturally enough, The Sun -- just as home was Earth, Terra, or simply The World. And naturally enough, being the ascendant animal on Earth, they called themselves human beings. They were looking for extraterrestrial souls to save. They had no real hope of finding humans like themselves in this wonderously diversified universe. But it wasn't against all probability that, in their rumaging, there might not be a humanoid species to whom they could reach down a helping paw; some emergent cousin with at least a rudimentary symmetry from snout to tail, and hence a rudimentary soul. The ship they chose was a compact scout, vaguely resembling the outside of an orange crate -- except that they had no concept of an orange crate and, being a tesseract, it had no particular outside. It was simply an expanding cube (and as such, quite roomy) whose "interior" was always paralleling its "exterior" (or attempting to), in accordance with all the well-known, basic and irrefutable laws on the subject. A number of its sides occupied the same place at the same time, giving a hypothetical spectator the illusion of looking down merging sets of rsdlway tracks. This, in fact, was its precise method of locomotion. The inner cube was always having to catch up, caboose-fashion, with the outer one in time (or space, depending on one's perspective) . And whenever it had done so, it would have arrived with itself -- at approximately wherever in the space-time continuum it had been pointed. When they felt the jar of the settling geodesics, the crew crowded at the forward visiplate to see where they were. It was the outskirts of a G type star system. Silently they watched the innermost planet float past, scorched and craggy, its sunward side seeming about to relapse to a molten state. The Bosun-Colonel turned to the Conductor. "A bit of a disappointment I'm afraid, sir. Surely with all that heat...?" "Steady, lad. The last wicket's not been bowled." The Conductor's whiskers quivered in amusement at his next-in-command's impetuosity. "You'll notice that we're dropping downward. If the temperature accordingly continues dropping -- " He couldn't shrug, he wasn't physiologically capable of it, but it was apparent that he felt they'd soon reach a planet whose climate could support intelligent life. If the Bosun-Colonel had any ideas that such directions as up and down were meaningless in space, he kept them to himself. As the second planet from its sun hove into view, he switched on the magniscan eagerly. "I say, this is more like it. Clouds and all that sort of thing. Should we have a go at it, sir?" The Conductor yawned. "Too bloody cloudy for my taste. Too equivocal. Let's push on," he said languidly. "I have a hunch the third planet might be just our dish of tea." Quelling his disappointment, the Bosun-Colonel waited for the third planet to swim into being. And when it did, blooming like an orchid in all its greens and moistnesses, he could scarcely contain his excitement. "Why, it looks just like Earth," he marveled. "Gad, sir, what a master stroke of navigation. How did you realize this would be it?" "Oh, I don't know," the Conductor said modestly. "Things usually have a habit of occurring in threes. I'm quite a student of numerology, you know." Then he remembered the Mission and drew himself erect on all his legs. "You may prepare for landing. Mister," he ordered crisply. The Bosun-Colonel shifted over to manual and busied himself at the helm, luffing the square craft down the troughs of air. Gliding over the vast tropical oceans, he put down at a large land mass above a shallow warm sea, twentyfive degrees below the northern pole. Too numbed for comment, the crew stared out at the alien vista. They'd heard of retarded life forms from other Missionary expeditions -- of planets where the inhabitants, in extreme emergency, had been known to commit murder. But this was surely the worst, the most vicious imaginable in the galaxy. Here, with life freshly up from the sea, freshly launched on the long climb to maturity and selfrealization -- was nothing but horror. With so lush a vegetation, so easily capable of supporting them side by side in abundance, the monsters were actually feeding on each other. Great lumbering beasts they were with their bristling hides and huge tails, charging between the giant tree ferns; gouging living chunks from one another while razor-toothed birds with scaly wings flapped overhead, screaming for the remnants. As the sounds of carnage came through the audio ports, the youngest Oarsman keeled over in a faint. Even the Conductor was visibly shaken. The Bosun-Colonel turned to him with a sick expression. "Surely it's a lost cause. Skipper. Life like this will never have a soul worth saving." "Not in its present stage," the Old Man was forced to agree. "Still, one never knows the devious paths that evolution takes." He considered the scene for a thoughtful, shuddering interval. "Perhaps in several thousand millenniums..." The Bosun-Colonel tried to visualize the possibility of Ethical Life ever materializing through these swamp mists, but the logic against it was too insurmoimtable for the imagination. "Even so," he conceded, "granting the impossible -- whatever shape it took, the only worthwhile species would still be..." He couldn't bring himself to say it. "Meat-eaters," the Conductor supplied grimly. C#n hearing this, the Oarsman who had just revived promptly fainted again. "It's too deep in the genes," the Conductor continued, "too far advanced for us to tamper with. All we can hope to do is modify their moral outlook. So that by the time they achieve star travel, they'll at least have a basic sense of Fair Play." Sighing, bowed by responsibilities # fantasy and sciencefiction books and backissue magazines at # to # under what theyVe cost you before, here or anywhere, while they last! Shannon Rd., R.D. #, Box #K Verona, Pennsylvonia incommensurate with his chronological youth, he gave the order wearily. It was snapped down the chain of command to the Senior Yardbird: "All paws stand by to lower the Ethics Ray! Step lively, lads -- bugger off, now..." There was a din of activity as the outer locks were opened and the bulky mechanism was shipped over the side. It squatted on a cleared rise of ground in all its complex, softly ticking majesty, waiting for the First Human to pad within range of its shedding Grace and Uplift. The work party scrambled back to the ship, anxious to be off this sinister terrain. Once more the crew gathered at the visiplate as the planet fell away beneath them, the Ethics Ray winking in the day's last light like a cornerstone. Or perhaps a tambourine... raw chaotic world, huge beasts closed in on the strange star-fallen souvenir. They snuffled over it; then enraged at discovering it was nothing they could fill their clamoring mindless stomachs with, attempted to wreck it. They were unsuccessful, for the Machine had been given an extra heavy coat of shellac and things to withstand such monkeyshines. And the Machine, in its own finely calibrated way, ignored its harassers, for they had no resemblance to the Life it had been tuned to influence. Days lengthened into decades, eons. The seas came shouldering in to stand towers tall above the Ethics Ray, lost in the far ooze below. Then even the seas receded, and the mountains buckled upward in their place, their arrogant stone faces staring changelessly across the epochs. Until they too were whittled down by erosion. The ice caps crept down, crackling and grinding the valleys. The groimd stretched and tossed like a restless sleeper, settled, and the Ethics Ray was brought to light once more. As it always had, it continued beaming its particular signal, on a cosmic ray carrier modulated by a pulse a particular number of angstroms below infrared. The beasts that blundered within its field were entirely different now, but they still weren't the Right Ones. Among them were some shambling pale bipeds, dressed in skins of other beasts, who clucked over its gleaming exterior and tried to chip it away for spearheads. In this of course they were unsuccessful. And then one day the First Human wandered by, paused square in the path of the beam. His physiology was only approximate, his I.Q. was regrettably low -- but he was Pre-Moral Life, such as it was, on this planet. The Ethics Ray made the necessary frequency adjustments, tripped on full force. The Primitive froze under the bombardment, its germ plasm shifting in the most minute and subtle dimensions. Then, its mission fulfilled, the Ethics Ray collapsed into heavy molecules and sank into the groimd. The first convert raced away in fright, having no idea what had hapand daughters... , B ack on the home base, the Conductor reported in at the Ethication of Primitive Planets office. It was a magnificently imposing building, as befitting the moral seat of the universe. And the Overseer was an equally imposing human with ears greyed by service. His congratulations were unreserved. "A splendid mission, lad," he said, "and I don't mind suggesting -- strictly entre nous -- that it could jolly well result in a Fleet Conductorship for you." The Conductor was overwhelmed. "Now just let me jot down the essentials while they're still fresh in mind," he continued, pawing through a desk drawer. "Botheration! I seem to have traded the last of my styluses. Do you happen to have one on you?" "With pleasure." The Conductor handed over his monogrammed gold stylus, receiving in exchange a toy silencemaker. "My youngster traded it to me this morning," the Overseer chuckled. He wrote rapidly for several moments, then gave the stylus bacL The Conductor found a weathered paper-weight in his rear pocket, which he traded him for it. It looked like it might have come from this very desk at one time. Then with a smart salute, he aboutfaced. On the way out, a pair of secretaries paused in their trading of a pelt brush for a tail-curler to watch him admiringly. As well they might. Fleet Conductor! The future Fleet Conductor of a solar system he would never think of calling Antares paused at the door. In its polished panel he regarded himself with due appreciation. He had sown the seeds of civilization on a far-flimg planet where, countless light years from now, they would flower to maturity. Not among the strongest or cleverest species, to be sure, but among those most worthy of applying First Principles, the moral law of give and take. Among those remote cousins of the Conductor himself -- who under no circumstances would ever think of himself as resembling a rather oversized trader rat    October issue. It's a suspenseful short novel about a strange war in which one side is armed with the greatest weapons of the age, while the other side has nothing but a new way of life : science and mechanics notwithstanding, the mind is Man's greatest potential... Also top-notch stories by Charles Beaumont, Robert F. Young, Edward W. Ludwig, Alan E. Nourse and others. It was just a harmless though amazing kids toy that sold for less than a dollar. Yet it plunged the entire nation into a nightmare of mystery and chaos... T he thing is over now, but I can't see a Teddy bear or a set of blocks in a department store window without shuddering. I'm thankful I'm a bachelor and have no children around to remind me of the utterly insane nightmare that a child's toy plunged our country died in agony -- the total disruption and near dissolution of our nation. And yet, as the United States tottered on the verge of complete chaos, it was, ironically, another child's toy that saved us. A simple, ordinary, every-day toy for tots stopped the "fever", halted the carnage that was tearing our flesh and eyes and viscera into shreds. With most the scientists in the world working for an emergency solution, they could come up with no better answer than a toy that'd been around for generations before the "Mystery i-Gun" was even conceived. Being a plain-clothesman, I have seen greed and impatience ruin many individual lives. If I could have guessed at the chain of events that would stem from my first tact with the younger Baxter er, I would have put a bullet through his head in cold blood and cheerfully faced the gas chamber. Illustrated by Ed Emsh Instead I took off my hat and foltold, we would find a body, lowed him through the substantial Leo Baxter was a little guy about old house to a moderately large five-foot six, like me but with a room in the rear where, I'd been better build. His size was important for a couple of reasons, one being that it was startling to say the least, when he pointed to the giant on the floor and said, "My brother." He caught my look and shrugged impatiently. "I know, I know, but this is no time for Mutt and Jeff gags. Galvin has been murdered. Now get with it, Lieutenant!" If Galvin was his brother, Leo's agitation was understandable, but his voice had a flat note of practicality in it that I didn't like. As I looked down at the sprawled length of the big man on the tiled floor, the Mutt and Jeff angle didn't fit at all. David and Goliath was a better bet. This Goliath seemed also to have met his fate from a hole in the forehead. I say, "seemed," because it developed that Galvin Baxter was not yet quite dead. "There's no pulse or breath," his brother said when I mentioned this error in his assumption. "You're no doctor. Now call that ambulance like I told you. Jump!" I said. He jumped. I made a quick examination, meanwhile, and when Leo came back from the phone I pointed. "See, the blood. It's still coming out." "Gorpses bleed, don't they?" "Not in spurts," I said. "The hole's tiny, but whatever's in there touched an artery. See that?" He looked and seemed convinced. "The ambulance will be here. Anything else I should do?" "Yes. Nothing. Don't touch a thing in this room... or did you already?" "Just Galvin. I heard him fall, and when I came in he was on his face." "Why did you ask for homicide when you called the police? Or let's put it this way: What makes you think it wasn't an accident?" "Two reasons. First, because I couldn't see any cause of the accident. When I turned him over the floor was smooth and clean under his forehead except for the smear of blood. Reason number two: Because Galvin just doesn't have accidents. All his life he's moved in slow motion. I've never known him to stumble, or cut himself, or drop anything or even bump into anyone." I was checking around the room myself, and I had to admit that both reasons might be valid. A man the size of Galvin wasn't likely to be the skittish type. And by the time the ambulance arrived I was ready to admit that if the injury were an accident, Galvin Baxter had contrived to conceal its source. It took several of us to load the unconscious man onto the stretcher. I told his cocky little brother to stay on ice, while I rode downtown in the ambulance. Dr. Thorsen called me into the emergency ward. "How did this happen?" he wanted to know. Thorsen is a lean, learned old chap who normally gives more answers than he asks. I said, "Don't know. Doc. I found him in a sort of home workshop. No power tools, nothing dangerous in sight. The bench at one end had a couple of little gadgets on it -- looked sort of electrical. Some wire, soldering iron, books, a few rough circuit drawings." "The gadgets. What did they look like?" I thought back and realized that what I had to describe would sound a little peculiar. "Sort of like flashlights with a pistol grip... and no lens where the light should come out. Just blunt, flat ends. Thorsen shrugged. "Then I don't know. I expected you to report some kind of a blast or explosion." "No sign of one." "All right, then what else but a flying particle could drill a hole in a man's forehead the diameter of a piece of #-gauge wire?" "What do the x-rays show?" "We'll know in a minute. What about the murder-attempt angle?" I said that I had nothing to go on yet. That was the whole truth and the final truth! When Doc's x-rays revealed nothing but a blood clot deep in the brain at the end of the tiny tunnel piercing the skull, I was left without even a "modus operandi", let alone a substantial suspect. F or two days I investigated brother Leo, and when I wasn't investigating him I was questioning him. The small town in Minnesota where he claimed he and his brother were bom had been the county seat, and the whole shivaree had burned up in a prairie fire years ago, courthouse, birth records and all. With no other living relatives, I had to depend on people who had known both men. From those whom I questioned, I ascertained that they had been passing for brothers, at least, for some time. On the third day Leo's patience began to crack. "You keep asking me the same, stupid questions over and over. I tell you, I'm a mechanical engineer. My brother was a mathematician. We're both single. I make enough money in the construction game to support both of us. What's so suspicious about humoring my brother's research?" "Among other things," I said, "is your ignorance of what he was doing." "For the fiftieth time I tell you I didnt know!" His exasperation was mounting to the pitch I had been awaiting. "You used the past tense. You do know now?" He wheeled and crosstd the living room, poured himself a drink of straight bourbon and downed it. "Yes, I have a notion now, but it's none of your damned business. His ideas may be patentable." I said slowly and quietly, "Now I'll tell you what I've been waiting for. I've been waiting for you to offer me information about the two little gadgets that you removed from your brother's work-bench -- against my explicit orders not to touch anything. Until you produce those items and explain your actions I'll be around here asking stupid questions. From now on, understand?" "Damn cops!" He threw the shot glass to the floor and glared at me for a long minute. "All right, come with me." We went into a little library. He took two volumes from a high shelf and from the recess snatched the two gadgets with the pistol ips. From a table drawer, whicn he unlocked with a key from his pocket, he took some drawings that looked like the ones that had disappeared from his brother's little work-shop. "Calvin developed a new effect by applying one of his esoteric mathematical symbols to a simple electronic circuit," Leo began, in his surly tone. He pointed at the margin of the circuit drawing. There were jottings of algebraic formulae in which the quantity "i" appeared prominently. He pointed this out to me and continued, "Being a cop you wouldn't understand, but this symbol stands for an imaginary number, the square root of a minus one." This rang a bell from away back in my own college math. I said, "Yeah, I think I remember. It's some sort of operational factor in polar coordinates. No real meaning in itself, but -- " "Well! An educated cop! That's right, except that Calvin managed to give this symbol an actual, functional application. I was telling the truth when I said I didn't ow what he was doing. I still don't understand it, and I've been losing sleep over these formulae." "Then why not take it to the university and let the professors -- " "Because," he interrupted, "whether I understand it or not, Calvin's gadget, happens to work. Watch this." He picked an ordinary paper clip from the debris of pencils, stamps and rubber bands from the top desk drawers, touched it to the "muzzle" end of the gadget where it stuck as if magnetized. "Now keep your eyes on the paper clip," he ordered. His forefinger pressed a button in the pistol grip, and without click, snap, buzz or murmur, the paper clip disappeared. Leo stared at me, as thoughts of "hyper-space", fourth-dimension and space-warps flitted through my mind. It wasn't a Buck Roger's atomic disintegrator, because there was no heat, flash or sound. The clip was suddenly elsewhere. "And I suppose the other gadget brings it back," I said. "That's what I thought, but I can't make it work. I suppose my brother could, if he were here." He tossed the thing to me, pointed at the little box of paper clips in the drawer and said, "Have fun." I did, for about five minutes. Eight paper clips later I was convinced that whatever else it might be, the gadget was no potential murder weapon. The clips disappeared, totally. You could pass your hand through the point of departure without a tingle of sensation. Leo briefed me further. The thing worked only on metallic conductors. It was harmless to human flesh and other organic matter. Then he removed the cover that ran the length of the rather crude, hand-carved, wooden barrel. From front to back, were: One pen-light cell, a lumpy-looking coil of wire hand-wound on a spindle-shaped iron core, and a short, cylindrical bar-magnet. "In mass production," he said, "About # cents worth of material and maybe # cents worth of labor! Do you see why I wanted to keep it a secret until I could patent it?" "No!" I said flatly. "Unless you consider a paper-clip disposal unit an item of commerci importance." "But it's a whole new scientific principle -- the rotation of matter completely out of our space-time continuum!" "That much I grasp, but what good is it except as a demonstration of a piece of pure scientific research?" "Good Lord, man, have you no imagination?" "Okay, okay! Get rich," I said and slammed the front door behind me as I stomped out. I had been so certain that the missing gadgets would give me a motive for the attack on Leo's brother, or at least the method of inflicting the fantastic wound, that I was about ready to turn in my badge in frustration. All I could pin on Leo was a desire to cash in on his brother's gimmick -- which, presumably, he could have done whether Calvin lived or died. Suppose, I mused on my way back to the station, that Calvin had refused to let Leo commercialize on his discovery? Perhaps Calvin was preparing a paper for publication in scientific circles. Maybe coolheaded little Leo tried to knock off his brother to keep the secret in the family until it could be turned to a selfish dollar. All right, suppose a jury would accept such an impalpable theory as a motive, then what? No murder weapon. No witnesses. Not even a genuine murder yet, because Calvin was still alive. Yes, old Doc Thorsen had kept the mathematician alive somehow. The elder Baxter lay on his back across two, white iron beds pushed together in the City Hospital, and Thorsen came in to report to me. "The clot seems to be absorbing better than I expected, but it's doubtful that we could operate to remove the paralyzing pressure. The puncture is deep into the brain tissue, and he's too nearly gone to survive such an ordeal." "Any chance that he might recover consciousness?" "Pretty remote," Thorsen told me. "We'll keep a special nurse with him as you ordered, just in case he does." I left Calvin Baxter pale and motionless as some great statue supine amid the tangle of plasma, glucose and saline hoses, under his transparent oxygen tent. The wound that had laid him low was no more than a dot of dried blood on his massive forehead. Until his death, his file would remain under unsolved crimes. In my own mind I was no longer sure of anything, except that if there was a nickel in Calvin Baxter's discovery, his mercenary brother would wring it out. And he did. Even before Calvin died. Some seven weeks later Leo mara combined, toy, trick and puzzle, and it set the whole damned world on its ear! I located Leo Baxter in his new suite of offices on the #th floor of the State Building. He peeled back his lips in a sneery grin. "I thought you'd be showing up." He waved away his male secretary who was still clinging to my arm trying to tow me back to the reception room. I said, "I kept your secret, then you pull an irresponsible thing like this! A kid's toy! Good Lord, man, that device might be dangerous!" "I appreciate your professional ethics, Lieutenant. I've applied for a patent, so you can tell all your friends now. And stop worrying. The "Mystery i-Gun" is quite harmless. I experimented a week before going into production." "A week?" I could scarcely believe my ears. "What happens when some kid jams his gun against a light-pole or an automobile... or the night lock on the First National Bank?" "Nothing. It punches no holes. A large metallic object simply dissipates the field. The largest object it will handle is about a halfinch steel screw -- " "Baxter, your brother's accident is connected to that device -- and you turn it loose as a novelty!" "Nonsense. It's safe as a knothole. It simply makes things disappear. Little things, like tacks, ball bearing, old rusty nuts and bolts -- " "And dimes and mamma's earrings and the front door key," I snapped back. "Until you know how to bring those things back you had no right to market that rig." He laid his small hands before him on the desk. "Lieutenant, I'm sick of working for other people. This is my chance to get a bankroll to back my own contracting firm. Yes, I financed Calvin's reknew he'd come up with something some day. Now he's done it, and I'm merely protecting his interests and my investment in him. See here." He shoved some documents at me. There was the patent application, a declaration of partnership for purposes of marketing the Mystery i-Gun, and the articles of incorporation of the Baxter Construction Company. "Okay," I said. "So you've cut your brother in on all this. Who's his beneficiary when he dies?" "Still looking for a motive for murder, aren't you. Lieutenant?" I didn't admit it to him, but he was right. Galvin's "accident" seemed too convenient to the purposes of his practical little brother, Leo. What's more, the lab and medical men on the force were just as mystified today as they were when we brought Calvin in with the needle-thin hole in his skull. Old Doc Thorsen had admitted to me that he could name no implement -- not even a surgical instrument -- that could have inflicted such a narrow gauge hole. It had to be caused by a fragment, hut there was no fragment in the brain! "Leo," I said, "I know you consider this case closed, but I want you to do me a favor. I want to go over youf brother's lab once more." "But you've -- " He stopped, shrugged and nodded his head. "Okay. I'm interested in finding out what hurt Cal, as much as you are. I'll tell you, Fm busy the rest of this week, but Fll meet you at the old house next Monday evening at eight. You see, I closed up the place and moved downtown." I agreed, with the feeling that he was deliberately making me wait just to annoy me. Leo Baxter was an important man now, a man the police -- at his own convenience. I stood up. "Your brother has been calling your name. I suppose they told you that?" "They phoned. Doctor said it was just mutterings." "You haven't even been to see him?" "What's the use? He wouldn't recognize me." Well, it wasn't any of my business, really, but it's funny how you get to hate a man for his attitude. I don't know what I expected to find by going over that lab-workshop again, but whatever it was, I hoped it would incriminate Leo. On the face of it he was guilty of nothing more than a premature marketing of a new device, but the way he was cashing in on Galvin's genius certainly did the dying man no honor. Cash in was right! The toys sold like bubble-gum. The papers, radio, and TV picked up the sensational worth of free advertising. And the profitable part of it was that the i-Gun was so simple to mass-produce that Leo's fifteen contracting manufacturers were almost able to keep up with the astronomical demand. Before that week was up, the Wall Street Journal estimated there were already more i-Guns in the hands of the juvenile public than all the yo-yos ever produced. They retailed at eighty-five cents, made of plastic with a hole in the back where you could change the penlight battery. They sold, all right. They sold in drugstores and toy stores and dime stores and department stores. Toddler's, tykes and teen-agers went for them. And were in the hands of the public before I saw Leo Baxter next. Which was almost two weeks instead of the one week he had promised. I finally got an appointment. "Sorry," he said. "Fve been tied up with government people all week. The A. E. G. tried to get me in trouble." I said, "Skip it. You promised for tonight. Now let's go." "I can't possibly make it tonight." He pointed at his desk. It was littered with correspondence, orders and contracts. "Give me one more week. Lieutenant." It was an order, not a request. There was nothing to do but wait the third week. It was not, however, uneventful. It was the week the accidents began to happen. At #: # of a Tuesday afternoon, a man was admitted to a local hospital with a perforated belly. Straight through, hide, guts and liver. A newsman got hold of it and wrote a scare story about an attack with a pellet gun that must shoot needles. Before the edition was sold out the hospitals were loaded with emergency cases. People with holes in them. Tiny little holes, mostly, but holes that went right through them. Then dogs. Then automobiles, trucks and busses. Holes in their radiators. Holes in windshields that always went straight back, through seats and sometimes passengers -- right out through the rear end. T he city panicked. Then the county, state and nation. In two days, yes, the whole nation! At first everyone thought we were being attacked by some secret weapon. By some miracle of statesmanship, the President of the United States prevented a "massive retaliation" attack by the army upon our most likely enemy -- long enough for Intelligence to affirm that no enemy on Earth was that mad at us. Then all thoughts turned to extra-terrestrial space. A bombardment from the sky? It was ridiculous to even consider, because none of the holes that appeared in people and things came from above. The holes were almost entirely in the horizontal plane. Strangely enough during those first two days, nobody thought of the Mystery i-Gun. No one but me. Leo Baxter had disappeared into thin air, as completely as if he'd turned to metal and crawled into the muzzle of one of his own "toys". I had every known place he frequented staked out with a pair of plain-clothesmen, but it was the morning of the second day of accidents before I got a radio call from the squad car stationed near the old Baxter home. Leo had come home at last. He was a sad looking midget when I got there. Obviously no sleep, unshaven, deep hollows under his eyes. "I figured you'd be waiting for me. Lieutenant, but you know what?" he demanded. "I don't give a damn! I kept waiting for them to figure out the answer to these accidents and string me up. How come you didn't tell anybody?" I said, "Shut up and let's go inside." Sure, I figured the i-Gun was the cause, but the last thing I wanted was for Leo to get strung up before I laid my hands on that other device -- the one that wouldn't work. I wanted that rig and all the plans and formulae, and Leo undoubtedly had them hidden deeper than Fort Knox. He unlocked the door, and I told the others to wait outside. We went into the hall and closed the door behind us. "So your little toy was harmless?" I said, grabbing him by his wrinkled lapels. "So it just shoots stuff off into another dimension?" He stared at me, his eyes half glazed. "I don't -- know. That's what the notes said." He sank into a chair. "I guess it doesn't, though. It must ball up the metal object and shoot it out -- infinite velocity -- reduced in size -- infinite massinfinite inertia -- keeps circling the globe like -- like a satellite. Goes right through anything it hits. Goes on and on. Forever. Little bullets. Right through steel. Right through flesh and bones -- " "Simmer down," I said. "You've been reading the papers. I've been checking the facts." "What do you mean?" "That you were right the first time. It does shoot metal objects into another dimension. But they dont stay there. They ooze back. Slowly. Real slow, so the first edge or comer that sticks back into our of an inch thick. Then a few tenthousandths, then a few thousandths -- and that's about the time they start making holes in people and objects that run into them.' "Run into them?" "Certainly. There are no holes in buildings or other stationary objects. The holes are all horizontal. Now look, Baxter, our only chance is to work on that other device and your brother's notes, and maybe we can develop an extractor of some kind." "No. No, you don't understand," he said shaking his head like a sleep-walker. "It balls up the metal. Shoots it out. Infinite mass. Infinite veloc -- " "Knock off that nonsense, and tell me where those plans are." "Trying to steal my brother's other invention, are you? It's not patented yet. You know that, don't you? Couldn't patent it because I can't make it work yet. You're smart, but you won't get it from me -- " I had a fair hold on him, but the pure insanity that flared in his eyes shocked me for just the instant it took him to wrench out of my hands. He stumbled to the door of the study and burst through it heading for the window. I didn't hurry after him too fast, because I knew the boys outside would take him. Leo Baxter was only three paces into the stale air of the unused library when he screamed, clasping his hands to his chest and dropped. A peculiar grating, plucking sound came faintly before he thudded to the carpet. I stopped hard in my tracks and wiped the sweat from my face while Leo Baxter twitched almost at my feet, his heart shredded and bubbling its last in his perforated chest. The paper clips. The ones I had propelled into nothingness weeks ago. Hat in hand I advanced slowly, waving it before me chest high. Then it caught suddenly, grated for a split second and passed on in its arc. Now there were several tiny holes in it. I backed away a foot and brought my hat down slowly on the same lethal spot of air. Chest-high it caught and hung suspended. Leaving it there as a marker I took off my suitcoat, held it before me and inched forward toward the desk. Something plucked at the dangling garment, and a chill froze my spine. Had I been walking forward normally, the tiny speck of metal that barely caught the glint of light from the window, would have pierced my skin at just about the site of my appendix. I circled the spot continuing to feel forward with my coat. That was the paper clip Baxter had fired to demonstrate to me that first day. At the phone I called headquarters and told the chief what to do. "You're so right," he told me, his voice slurring strangely. "Only you're a little late. The order went out to confiscate the i-Guns. They think the damned toys might have something to do with the accidents. And I bought one of the first ones for my little Jerry!" His voice sounded hollow. So they were figuring it out! The next question was, how to extract the deadly particles from the other dimension, or how to keep them from bleeding back slowly into ours. I moved cautiously through the old house fanning every inch of air ahead of me with a phone book. When I got to Calvin Baxter's workshop I was especially careful, but I needn't have been. The only metal particles stuck into the thin air seemed to be over his workbench where he had been experimenting with his device. All but one. It was right where I expected to find it -- better than six feet in the air, just fore-head high for a mam tall as Calvin Baxter. He had fired his proto-type of the i-Gun just once into the middle of the room. How long ago? Eight -- ten weeks ago? It seemed impossible that all this horror had occurred in such a short time. But there it was, stuck in space, protruding about a hundredth of an inch from nowhere into clear visibility. So little was showing that I couldn't be sure, but it looked like the tip of an ordinary little nail or wo-screw. This was my "murder-weapon", the cause of Calvin Baxter's accident, He'd run into it, jerked his head back, and the speck had come out the same hole it went in. In twenty minutes by the clock I had the lab crew out from headquarters, and had explained the whole business to them. First they measured the length of the protrusion, and my guess was about right. It measured .# inches on the micrometer caliper. If it were a screw an inch long, at that rate of "bleedback" it would take another # weeks to come the rest of the way out. Almost two years! Paul Riley, the lab chief, was sharp. He caught it about the same time I did and turned to look at me, "We've got to figure a way of getting those things out of the way." I nodded. "But quick." Collins, our print man, said, "Why not just shoot them back into wherever it is they go, with another i-Gun?" "And have them come bleeding back after a few weeks?" Paid frowned him silent. He picked up a hammer from the bench and tapped the tiny, glinting speck. The point flattened out a bit, but the thud of the hammer indicated how solidly it was stuck. Then he walked around behind the point and struck it a hard blow from the cross-section side. The hammer shivered in his hand and he dropped it, rubbing his numbed fingers with his other hand. "Lieutenant," he said slowly, "we are up against something." We found we could file away the metal easily enough. Sure it filed away until the file cut into empty space. But cold comfort that was. In a few hours, we knew, molecule by molecule, the screw buried in the other dimension would come oozing back, a minute but lethal speck ready to ambush th first very tall man who walked toward it. Tall man! That's why Leo Baxter and I had failed to find it in the first place. I had criss-crossed that room half a thousand times in my previous examinations. If I had been taller, or the speck of metal lower -- "We've got to bring Calvin Baxter back to consciousness somehow," I said. "We've got to find out how that extractor of his works." "Right!" Jerry said, dropping his hands in resignation. We'd run out of ideas at the same time, and the senior Baxter appeared to be our only hope. there, into the squad car, and proceeded at a gingerly five miles per hour back to headquarters. On my insistence, Calvin Baxter had been set up in a private room at the jail with Doc Thorsen in attendance. The city hospitals were so jammed with accident victims and frantic relatives that it was no place to work with a man who was our only salvation. When I explained everything to Dr. Thorsen and told him how important it was that we bring Calvin back to consciousness he shook his head. "It might be done, but it would probably kill him -- " "But you said he'd never recover anyway," I argued. Thorsen seemed to be considering that. "Yes," he said at last. "That's more apparent now than ever. He's beginning to suffer the usual complications of immobility. Probably won't last more than a few weeks anyway. But can't you get the dope you want from his brother?" he stalled while he weighed his ethics against the necessity of the moment. "His brother," I told him, "is dead. Paper clips. Right through the heart." "I see. Well, we could operate, but as I said, Calvin wouldn't survive for long. Maybe only hours or minutes. And maybe not even long enough to regain consciousness after we remove the clot." I said, "I've left a crew at the Baxter house to tear it apart, board by board, until we find this socalled extractor that Leo hid. But even after we find it, we need Calvin to tell us how to make it work. There must be a part missing." We had wandered into Calvin's room and were talking over his great, supine body, covered to the chin with a white sheet. The speck of scalp on his forehead had dried up and dropped off leaving only a faint white spot. As I mentioned the missing part, his lips began moving and a grunt issued from his throat. "Listen," I said. "He hears me! He's trying to talk!" "No, Lieutenant." Thorsen said, putting a hand to his eyes. "He's been grunting like that for days. The only word that ever comes out is his brother's name, Leo." The name struck anger and frustration in me. "Leo," I halfshouted. "That stinking little -- never even visited his brother!" "Relax, Gene. That won't do any good. The man's dead," he reminded me. "Relax? When all over the country people are tearing their bodies to pieces? Innocent people. Little kids -- " "I know, I know. I just spent nine hours in the emergency ward. Peritonitis. Cardiac injury. Lungs. Tom eye-balls. And it's probably just the beginning." "Then what are you waiting for?" I demanded. "Our only chance is to bring Calvin Baxter to consciousness long enough to explain how his extractor works." Doc ran trembling hands through his fuzz of white hair. For the first time I noticed that the pupils of his eyes were moving back and forth in little quick, darting motions like a wild animal looking for escape. "I -- don't know. Gene. I suppose you are right. Only -- we need permission -- we must -- you see, he might die, and -- " I took a good look at him and suddenly realized that despite his calm voice, the old man was going to pieces. I grabbed him by the arm and hauled him out of there, across the hall to the chief's office. DurStine had his head down on his arms, slouched over the desk fast asleep between two clanging telephones. "Wake up, chief!" I said, shaking him by the shoulder. "We have to get Jter to City Hospital and -- " Durstine raised his head and stared at me. His usually sharp, gray eyes were dull, and his face looked dirty with a stubble of black whiskers. With a deliberate motion of both hands he knocked the receivers off both phones and fell back in his swivel chair. "Now what?" he asked thickly. "You're drunk!" I exclaimed. Durstine, who would fire a #-year man without a qualm if he caught a single trace of beer on his breath on duty, "What else is new?" He could barely focus his eyes on me. I swallowed a couple of times and began explaining what must be done. Get the mayor and Civil Defense on the phone. Commandeer all radio stations to explain the true nature of the metallic particles to the public. Tell them to stay put, and when they did move, to walk slowly, fanning the air ahead of them with something solid -- an umbrella, a coat, newspaper, garbage can lid -- anything to warn them of the tiny, suspended daggers. "Yeah. Great idea. Some people doing it already." He said it without enthusiasm. "Only trouble is, the phones are swamped. Communications are breaking down already, and when people learn about the fever, they will blow sky-high." "The fever?" "The fever." He bobbed his head loosely. "My Jerry died of it this afternoon. Came down with it day before yesterday. By the time we got him to the hospital this morning he was running a hundred and five. Docs were too busy with bleeders. Wouldn't listen to me until it was too late. Jerry's dead. My little Jerry." His voice was flat, his eyes staring straight ahead. Jerry was his only son, and one of the first kids in town to own an i-Gun. Durstine had said he bought it for himself. The chief went on, "What's more, the fever's epidemic. Before we left the hospital they were dragging victims in by the hundreds. Not just kids, either. On top of this other thing, we got the worst epidemic in history. No one knows what it is." I looked at Thorsen. "You said you'd been at the hospital. What is it?" "I -- saw a few cases." He said it almost under his breath. I grabbed him by his coat lapels. "Snap out of it. Doc. If you know what it is, for God's sake tell us!" "They don't know what it is," he said looking down at the floor. "But you do. I can tell by your face " "All right, maybe I do." His face was drawn and defiant with an almost fanatical determination. "There aren't enough sulphas and antibiotics in the world to control it. We can't do anything about it, so why drive people crazy with fear?" Durstine was coming out of his fog. He opened the big bottom drawer of his desk and handed an open fifth of whiskey to Thorsen. He said, "Doc, you're in no condition to make a decision like that." Thorsen tipped up the bottle and let several swallows pour down his leathery neck. The stuff brought tears to his eyes. He blinked them away and wiped his mouth with the back of his hand. "All right, public guardian, I'll tell you. It's pretty obvious, and other medical men will think of it pretty quick, I suppose -- when they find out the cause of the punctures they are treating. This fever is just more of the same. Peritonitis. Only it's caused by particles so small that you can't even feel when they penetrate the skin. They're large enough to poke holes in your intestines, though. Large enough to make microscopic passages for bacteria. So, you see, for every bleeding patient, there will be hundreds, thousands, coming down with peritonitis -- infection of the body cavity from within. Without drugs the inflammation spreads in hours, and the temperature goes up and up. It's fatal." I could almost feel the pain in my belly and the fire in my veins as he spoke. Doc Thorsen took another drink and handed me the bottle. "You look a little pale. Gene. Have a jolt and see if your guts leak." Durstine and I both had a drink, and the chief said, "I see what you meant. I wish you'd kept your mouth shut." I said, "Dammit, we've got to do something." "Like what?" Durstine asked bitterly. "Like quarantining the schools and the playgrounds?" Thorsen nodded grimly. "And the parks? And all back yards and front yards?" Durstine picked it up again. "And empty lots and all sidewalks and streets and public buildings and the whole damned outdoors plus the indoors?" The enormity of the problem began to sink into my tired brain. In the space of weeks, more than # United States alone. Multiply that figure by the number of times each was fired. Ten? Fifty? A hundred times? Only God knew how many rivets were launched into limbo, and were now just beginning to return -- invisible at first -- to skewer the American people. Wherever kids had played -- and that was virtually everywhere -- death was hidden. And the semivisible particles would keep emerging for weeks, in the order that they were shot into the other dimension. Worse yet, at the slow rate of emergence, it would be months or years before the metallic flotsam returned completely and dropped to earth! A man could protect himself only by remaining motionless. But society was geared to motion, fast, space-covering motion. The nation would starve to death, if everyone didn't go insane first and tear themselves to pieces running around. "We've got to get Ae secret of that extractor out of Calvin Baxter," I said. "If we can discover the principle, we can build large models, like a vacuum cleaner -- G etting Baxter into City Hospital and finding a competent surgeon in good enough condition to perform the delicate operation, took almost twenty-four hours. The hospital resembled an abattoir, the corridor floors slick from the drippings of fresh blood, as people seeking help wandered frantically from floor to floor. Somehow we managed to impress upon the staff the fact that Baxter had priority, and we were allowed on the operating floor, which was guarded at all entries. Sick with exhaustion, I waited with Durstine. Thorsen was impressed into duty immediately, and that was the last we saw of him. It was a good many hours before they called us into the operating room. I won't try to describe the sight in detail. Surgeons and nurses hovered over tables, weaving like drunken butchers in blood-soaked aprons. In one corner, on a cot, Baxter lay with his head and shoulders propped up high. His feet hung over the end at least fourteen inches. A single sheet covered him. The top of his skull was bandaged, and he looked even paler than before. A doctor and one nurse stood on either side of him. As we came in the doctor said, "I've been told of the problem. We've done all we can, but this man is dying. I think we can bring him to consciousness for a few minutes. It's a terribly cruel thing to do, and I'm not sure he will be coherent. Are you sure you want me to try?" "It's his invention that brought on all of this," I said. "If there's any solution to it, he has it in his head." "Very well." He did things with a hypodermic needle while the nurse rigged an oxygen tent. I'he smell of ether and blood made me sicker. My throat was dry, and I remember wishing I hadn't drunk Durstine's whiskey. As we stood waiting the humid air felt almost unbearably hot, and I had difficulty focussing my eyes. Durstine looked terrible, holloweyed, unshaven, but he seemed in better shape than I. It was he who caught the first flicker of Baxter's eyes and dropped to his knees. The color came back to the scientist's face in a rush of pink, and his chest heaved with deep breathing. "Can you hear me?" Durstine began. An hour later Baxter was dead as predicted. And so was all hope of removing the lethal debris with his other invention. The "extractor" didn't work, he had told us. Yes, he'd been trying to reverse the field to retrieve the metallic objects from the other dimension, hut the experiment was a failure! Durstine took my arm. "Gome on. Gene. We've done all we can. I know one safe place -- a place where no kids ever played." "Yeah, I know," I said with a tongue two sizes too big. "The nearest bar. The damned kids! They've murdered us! Led Baxter and the damned kids!" Things were turning gray, but I remember the chief catching me by the shoulder and jerking; me around. Too late I rememJbered about his little Jerry and the agony my words must have carvedl in his heart. I wished he'd slug me, but he didn't. He looked at me for a long minute and said something I don't remember, because the fog closed in -- a hot, dry fog that swept into my brain and blacked out the h'ght. I don't even remember falling. The last thought I had was, the fever! Fve got it. And Thorsen said there were no more antibiotics or drugs left in the city. surprise but no pleasure, to discover I was still alive. Through the smoke of my unfocussed eyes I could tell that my "private" room was occupied by at least a dozen other patients. Some were on cots and some, like me, simply lay on the floor vith a blanket over them. I had one #-second visit from the doctor before Durstine came to take me away. The doc said simply, "You're a lucky man, Lieutenant. We didn't save many 'fever' patients after the drugs ran out." The chief brought a couple of boys in blue with a stretcher to haul me out, I was amazed to discover that automobiles were still moving about the streets -- not many, but a few. I was too sick and exhausted to talk during the ride. Durstine rode in back with me, a hand on my shoulder. "Don't worry; Gfene," he said. "You're going to be all right. And we've got this thing pretty well licked." He looked into my eyes and read the question I was too weak to speak aloud. "No' he said, "we didn't figure out Baxter's extractor. But we do have a successful detector, and all we have to do now is use it -- then hang a tin can or an old ketchup bottle on each speck of metal for a marker. Yeah, the coimtry's going to be cluttered up like a hanging garbage dump for a long time, but if you can see 'em you can dodge 'em." A detector? Why, they'd have to equip every person in the country with one! And surely nothing less than an electronic, radar-type gadget could detect the microscopic particles as they first began to emerge -- the kind that had riddled my intestines and given me the fever without even leaving a mark on my skin. "I know what you are thinking," Durstine said. His face was gray and drawn, but he wore a faint smile. "It was simple when somebody thought of it. What would be cheap enough to distribute universally, yet effective enough to give you positive warning? You see, these tiny particles are so fine at first that you can fan the air with a plank and never know when one passes through." He raised me up from the stretcher and let me look out the window of the police ambulance. Through squinted eyes I made out a strange sight. A thin scattering of pedestrians was moving slowly on the sidewalks, winding their ways among a random collection of floating tin cans and inverted bottles. When we stopped for a red light I watched a young woman in a business suit step between a whiskey bottle head-high, and a bean can about knee-high, and then proceed gingerly waving a colored sphere ahead of her. This sphere, about eighteen inches in diameter, suddenly disappeared. She stopped abruptly and began shouting. Before the traffic light turned green, a man came up with an empty motor oil can and placed it on the sidewalk, under the point she indicated in the air before her. Durstine explained, "When that speck gets large enough to support it, that can will be hung on it. Meanwhile, other people are forewarned that the air over the can is out-of-bounds, so they won't waste detectors on it." As he spoke, the young woman was fishing another "detector" from her purse. It was a limp bit of something which she placed to her lips and inflated until it was a foot-anda-half in diameter, then she tied off the neck and proceeded down the walk waving it before her in great vertical sweeps. It was as simple as that. Our undoing had been a #cent kid's toy. And our salvation was a penny-balloon!    Science surpasses the old miracles of mythology. -- Emerson what Is Your Science I. Q.? scientific facts that you read about in science fiction. How well do you know them? Counting five for each correct answer, you should score #. Anything over # makes you a veritable Mr. Wizard. See page # for the answers. #. A googol is a one followed by zeros. #. What percent of the moon's surface has been able to be observed by astronomers? #. The measure of the extent to which one atom is able to combine directly with others is known as the #. In which constellation is the point which is known as "the apex of the Sun's way"? #. The substitution of machines or mechanical devices for human beings in a manufacturing process is described by the newly coined word #. What is the scientific term for the bright streaks or areas on the surface of the Sun? #. Zero on the Fahrenheit scale represents the temperature produced by the mixing of equal weights of snow and #. The distance from the Earth to the Sun, # miles, is the basis for what unit of measurement? #. The height of the Earth's atmosphere is # miles, but about half of it by weight is below feet. #. What is the term used to describe different forms of the same element which have the same atomic number but different atomic weights? #. Are sidereal days longer or shorter than solar days? #. The atomic weight of any element is represented by the total number of neutrons and #. What is the polar radius of the Earth in statute miles? #. If an astronomical unit were represented by one inch, a light year would be represented by about #. During the fusion of deuterium and tritium, hydrogen is transmuted into what other element? #. The tail of a comet always trails from the head in a direction the sun. #. The rotational speed of the Sun varies from about # ## days at the equator to approximately days near its poles. BY The obvious signs were missing, yet Callisto was moving steadily toward a state of totalitarianism. All the people were beginning to be exactly alike! pushed away his work papers. In an organization of thousands he was the only employee not putting out. Probably he was the only yance-man on Callisto not doing his job. Fear, and the quick pluckings of desperation, made him reach up and wave on the audio circuit to Babson, the over-all office controller. "Say," Sipling said hoarsely, "I think Pm stuck, Bab. How about running the gestalt through, up to my spot? Maybe I can pick up the rhythm... He grinned weakly. "The hum of other creative minds." After a speculative moment, Babson reached for the impulse synapsis, his massive face unsympathetic. "You holding up progress. Sip? This has to be integrated with the daily by six tonight. The schedule calls for the works to be on the vidlines during the dinner-hour stretch." I he visual side of the gestalt had already begun to form on the wall screen; Sipling turned his attention to it, grateful of a chance to escape Babson' s cold glare. The screen showed a #-D of Yancy, the usual three-quarter view, from the waist up. John Edward Yancy in his faded workshirt, sleeves rolled up, arms brown and furry. A middle-aged man in his late fifties, his face sunburned, neck slightly red, a good-natured smile on his face, squinting because he was looking into the sun. Behind Yancy was a still of his yard, his garage, his flower garden, lawn, the back of his neat little white plastic house. Yancy nned at Sipling: a neighbor pausing in the middle of a summer day, perspiring from the heat and the exertion of mowing his lawn, about to launch into a few harmless remarks about the weather, the state of the planet, the condition of die neighborhood. "Say," Yancy said, in the audio phones propped up on Sipling's desk. His voice was low, personal. "The darndest thing happened to my grandson Ralf, the oAer morning. You know how Ralf is; he's always getting to school half an hour early... says he likes to be in his seat before anybody else." "That eager-beaver," Joe Pines, at the next desk, cat-called. From the screen, Yancy's voice rolled on, confident, amiable, undisturbed. "Well, Ralf saw this squirrel; it was just sitting there on the sidewalk. He stopped for a minute and watched." The look on Yancy's face was so real that Sipling almost believed him. He could, almost, see the squirrel and the tow-headed youngest grandson of the Yancy family, the familiar child of the familiar son of the planet's most familiar -- and beloved -- person. "This squirrel," Yancy explained, in his homey way, "was collecting nuts. And by golly, this was just the other day, only the middle of June. And here was this little squirrel -- " with his hands he indicated the size, "collecting these nuts and carrying them ofT for winter." And then, the amused, anecdotelook on Yancy's face faded. A serious, thoughtful look replaced it : the meaningful-look. His blue eyes darkened (good color work). His jaw became more square, more imposing (good dummy-switch by the android crew). Yancy seemed older, more solemn and mature, more impressive. Behind him, the gardenscene had been jerked and a slightly different backdrop filtered in; Yancy now stood firmly planted in a cosmic landscape, among mountains and winds and huge old forests. "I got to thinking," Yancy said, and his voice was deeper, slower. "There was that little squirrel. How did he know winter was coming? There he was, working away, getting prepared for it." Yancy's voice rose. "Preparing for a winter he'd never seen." Sipling stiffened and prepared himself; it was coming. At his desk, Joe Pines grinned and yelled: "Get set!" "That squirrel," Yancy said solemnly, "had faith. No, he never saw any sign of winter. But he knew winter was coming." The firm jaw moved; one hand came slowly up... And then the image stopped. It froze, immobile, silent. No words came from it; abruptly the sermon ended, in the middle of a paragraph. "That's it," Babson said briskly, filtering the Yancy out. "Help you any?" Sipling pawed jerkily at his work papers. "No," he admitted, "actually it doesn't. But -- I'll get it worked out." "I hope so." Babson's face darkened ominously and his small mean eyes seemed to grow smaJler. "What's the matter with you? Home problems?" "I'll be okay," Sipling muttered, sweating. "Thanks." On the screen a faint impression of Yancy remained, still poised at the word coming. The rest of the gestalt was in Siplings head: the continuing slice of words and gestures hadn't been worked out and fed to the composite. Sipling's contribution was missing, so the entire gestalt was stopped cold in its tracks. "Say," Joe Pines said uneasily, "I'll be glad to take over, today. Cut your desk out of the circuit and I'll cut myself in." "Thanks," Sipling muttered, "but I'm the only one who can get this damn part. It's the central gem." "You ought to take a rest. You've been working too hard." "Yes," Sipling agreed, on the verge of hysteria. "I'm a Httle under the weather." That was obvious: everybody in the office could see that. But only Sipling knew why. And he was fighting with all his strength to keep from screaming out the reason at the top of his limgs. Basic analysis of the political milieu at Callisto was laid out by Niplan computing apparatus at Washington, D.G.; but the final evaluations were done by human technicians. The Washinon computers could ascertain that the Gallisto political structure was moving toward a totalitarian make-up, but they couldn't say what that indicated. Human beings were reqmred to class the drift as malign. "It isn't possible," Taverner protested. "There's constant industrial traffic in and out of Callisto; except for the Ganymede syndicate they've got out-planet commerce bottled up. We'd know as soon as anything phony got started." "How would we know?" Police Director Kellman inquired. Taverner indicated the datasheets, graphs and charts of figures and percentages that covered the walls of the Niplan Police offices. "It would show up in hundreds of ways. Terrorist raids, political prisons, extermination camps. We'd hear about political recanting, treason, disloyalty... all the basic props of a dictatorship." "Don't confuse a totalitarian society with a dictatorship," Kellman said drily. "A totalitarian state reaches into every sphere of its citizens' lives, forms their opinions on every subject. The government can be a dictatorship, or a parliament, or an elected president, or a council of priests. That doesn't matter." "All right," Taverner said, mollified. "I'll go. I'll take a team there and see what they're doing." "Gan you make yourselves look like Gallistotes?" "What are they like?" "I'm not sure," Kellman admitted thoughtfully, with a glance at the elaborate wall charts. "But whatever it is, they're all beginning to turn out alike." Among its passengers the interplan commercial liner that settled down at Gallisto carried Peter Taverner, his wife, and their two children. With a grimace of concern, Taverner made out the shapes of local officials waiting at the exit hatch. The passengers were going to be carefully screened; as the ramp descended, the clot of officials moved forward. Taverner got to his feet and collected his family. "Ignore them' he told Ruth. "Our papers will get us by." Expertly prepared documents identified him as a speculator in nonferric metals, ' looking for a wholesale outlet to handle his jobbing. Gallisto was a clearing-point for land and mineral operations; a constant flood of wealth-hungry entrepreneurs streamed back and forth, carting raw materials from the underdeveloped moons, hauling mining equipment from the inner planets. Cautiously, Taverner arranged his topcoat over his arm. A heavyset man, in his middle thirties, he could have passed for a successful business operator. His doublebreasted business suit was expensive, but conservative. His big shoes were brightly shined. All things considered, he'd probably get by. As he and his family moved toward the exit ramp, they presented a perfect and exact imitation of the out-planet business-class. "State your business," a greenuniformed official demanded, pencil poised. I-d tabs were being checked, photographed, recorded. Brain pattern comparisons were being made : the usual routine. "Nonferric enterprises," Taverner began, but a second official cut him abruptly off "You're the third cop this morning. What's biting you people on Terra?" The official eyed Taverner intently. "We're getting more cops than ministers." Trying to maintain his poise, Taverner answered evenly: "I'm here to take a rest. Acute alcoholism -- nothing official." "That's what your cohorts said," The official grinned humorlessly. "Well, what's one more Terran cop?" He slid the lock-bars aside and waved Taverner and his family through. "Welcome to Gallisto. Have fun -- enjoy yourselves. Fastest-growing moon in the system." "Practically a planet," Taverner commented ironically. "Any day, now." The official examined some reports. "According to our friends in your little organization, you've been pasting up wall graphs and charts about us. Are we that important?" "Academic interest," Taverner said ; if three spots had been made, then the whole team had been netted. The local authorities were obviously primed to detect infiltration... the realization chilled him. But they were letting him through. Were they that confident? Things didn't look good. Peering around for a cab, he grimly prepared to undertake the business of integrating the scattered team members into a functioning whole. T hat evening, at the StayLit bar on the main street of the commercial district of town, Taverner met with his two team members. Hunched over their whiskey sours, they compared notes. "I've been here almost twelve hours," Eckmund stated, gazing impassively at the rows of bottles in the gloomy depths of the bar. Gigar smoke hovered in the air ; the automatic music box in the corner banged away metallically. "I've been walking around town, looking at things, making observations." "Me," Dorser said, "I've been at the tape-library. Getting official myth, comparing it to Callistote reality. And talking to the scholars -- educated people hanging around the scanning rooms." Taverner sipped his drink. "Anything of interest?" "You know the primitive ruleof-thumb test," Eckmimd said wryly. "I loafed around on a slum street corner until I got in a conversation with some people waiting for a bus. I started knocking the authorities: complaining about the bus service, the sewage disposal, taxes, everything. They chimed right in. Heartily. No hesitation. And no fear." "The legal government," Dorser commented, "is set up in the usual archaic fashion. Two-party system, one a little more conservative than the other -- no fundamental difference of course. But both elect candidates at open primaries, ballots circulated to all registered voters." A spasm of amusement touched him. "This is a model democracy. I read the text books. Nothing but idealistic slogans : freedom of speech, assembly, religion -- the works. Same old grammar school stuff." The three of them were temporarily silent. "There are jails," Taverner said slowly. "Every society has law violations." "I visited one," Eckmund said, belching. "Petty thieves, murderers, claim-jumpers, strong-arm hoods -- the usual." "No political prisoners?" "No." Eckmund raised his voice. "We might as well discuss this at the top of our lungs. Nobody cares -- the authorities don't care." "Probably after we're gone they'll clap a few thousand people into prison," Dorser murmured thoughtfully. "My God," Eckmund retorted, "people can leave Gallisto any time they want. If you're operating a police state you have to keep your borders shut. And these borders are wide open. People pour in and out." "Maybe it's a chemical in the drinking water," Dorser suggested. "How the hell can they have a totalitarian society without terrorism?" Eckmund demanded rhetorically. "I'll swear to it -- there are no thought-control cops here. There is absolutely no fear." "Somehow, pressure is being exerted," Taverner persisted. "Not by cops," Dorser said emphatically. "Not by force and brutality. Not by illegal arrest and imprisonment and forced labor." "If this were a police state," Eckmund said thoughtfully, "there'd be some kind of resistance movement. Some sort of 'subversive' group trying to overthrow the authorities. But in this society you're free to complain; you can buy time on the t-v and radio stations, you can buy space in the newspapers -- anything you want." He shrugged. "So how can there be a clandestine resistance movement? It's silly." # . "Nevertheless," Taverner said, "these people are living in a oneparty society, with a party line, with an official ideology. They show the effects of a carefully controlled totalitarian state. They're guinea pigs -- whether they realize it or not." "Wouldn't they realize it?" Baffled, Taverner shook his head. "I would have thought so. There must be some mechanism we don't understand." "It's all open. We can look everything over." "We must be looking for the wrong thing." Idly, Taverner gazed at the television screen above the bar. The nude girlie song-anddance routine had ended; now the features of a man faded into view. A genial, round-faced man in his fifties, with guileless blue eyes, an almost childish twitch to his lips, a fringe of brown hair playing around his slightly prominent ears. "Friends," the t-v image rumbled, "it's good to be with you again, tonight. I thought I might have a little chat with you." "A commercial," Dorser said, signalling the bartending machine for another drink. "Who is that?" Taverner asked curiously. "That kindly-looking geezer?" Eckmund examined his notes. "A sort of popular commentator. Name of Yancy." "Is he part of the government?" "Not that I know of. A kind of home-spun philosopher. I picked up a biography of him on a magazine stand." Eckmund passed the gaily-colored pamphlet to his boss. "Totally ordinary man, as far as I can see. Used to be a soldier; in the MarsJupiter War he distinished himself -- battlefield commission. Rose to the rank of major." He shrugged indifferently. "A sort of talking almanac. Pithy sayings on every topic. Wise old saws: how to cure a chest cold. What the trouble is back on Terra." Taverner examined the booklet. "Yes, I saw his picture around." "Very popular figure. Loved by the masses. Man of the people -- speaks for them. When I was buying cigarettes I noticed he endorses one particular brand. Very popular brand, now; just about driven the others off the market. Same with beer. The Scotch in this glass is probably the brand Yancy endorses. The same with tennis balls. Only he doesn't play tennis -- he plays croquet. All the time, every weekend." Accepting his fresh drink Eckmund finished, "So now everybody plays croquet." "How can croquet be a planetwide sport?" Taverner demanded. "This isn't a planet," Dorser put in. "It's a pipsqueak moon." "Not according to Yancy," Eckmund said. "We're supposed to think of Gallisto as a planet." "How?" Taverner asked. "Spiritually, it's a planet. Yancy likes people to take a spiritual view of matters. He's strong on God and honesty in government and being hard-working and clean-cut. Warmed-over truisms." The expression on Taverner's face hardened. "Interesting," he murmured. "I'll have to drop by and meet him." "Why? He's the dullest, most mediocre man you could dream up." "Maybe' Taverner answered, "that's why I'm interested." Babson, huge and menacing, met Taverner at the entrance of the Yancy Building. "Of course you can meet Mr. Yancy. But he's a busy man -- it'll take awhile to squeeze in an appointment. Everybody wants to meet Mr. Yancy." Taverner was unimpressed. "How long do I have to wait?" As they crossed the main lobby to the elevators, Babson made a computation. "Oh, say four months." "Four months "John Yancy is just about the most popular man alive." "Around here, maybe," Taverner commented angrily, as they entered the packed elevator. "I never heard of him before. If he's got so much on the ball, why isn't he piped all around Niplan?" "Actually," Babson admitted, in a hoarse, confidential whisper, "I can't imagine what people see in Yancy. As far as I'm concerned he's just a big bag of wind. But people around here enjoy him. After all, Callisto is -- provincial. Yancy appeals to a certain type of rural mind -- to people who like their world simple. I'm afraid Terra would be too sophisticated for Yancy." "Have you tried?" "Not yet," Babson said. Reflectively, he added: "Maybe later." While Taverner was pondering the meaning of the big man's words, the elevator ceased climbing. The two of them stepped off into a luxurious, carpeted hall, illuminated by recessed lights. Babson pushed open a door, and they entered a large, active office. Inside, a screening of a recent Yancy gestalt was in progress. A group of yance-men watched it silently, faces alert and critical. The gestalt showed Yancy sitting at his old-fashioned oak desk, in his study. It was obvious that he had been working on some philosophical thoughts: spread out over the desk were books and papers. On Yancy's face was a thoughtful expression; he sat with his hand against his forehead, features screwed up into a solemn study of concentration. "This is for next Sunday morning," Babson explained. Yancy's lips moved, and he spoke. "Friends," he began, in his deep, personal, friendly, man-to-man voice, "I've been sitting here at my desk -- well, about the way you're sitting around your living rooms." A switch in camera work occurred; it showed the open door of Yancy's study. In the living room was the familiar figure of Yancy's sweetfaced middle-aged homey wife ; she was sitting on the comfortable sofa primly sewing. On the floor their grandson Ralf played the familiar game of jacks. The family dog snoozed in the corner. One of the watching yance-men made a note on his pad. Taverner glanced at him curiously, baffled. "Of course, I was in there with them," Yancy continued, smiling briefly. "I was reading the funnies to Ralf. He was sitting on my knee." The background faded, and a momentary phantom scene of Yancy sitting with his grandson on his knee floated into being. Then the desk and the book-lined study returned. "Fm mighty grateful for my family," Yancy revealed. "In these times of stress, it's my family that I turn to, as my pillar of strength." Another notation was made by a watching yance-man. "Sitting here in my study, this wonderful Sunday morning," Yancy rumbled on, "I realize how lucky we are to be alive, and to have this lovely planet, and the fine cities and houses, all the things God has given us to enjoy. But we've got to be careful. We've got to make sure we don't lose these things." A change had come over Yancy. It seemed to Taverner that the image was subtly altering. It wasn't the same man ; the good humor was gone. This was an older man, and larger. A firm-eyed father, speaking to his children. "My friends," Yancy intoned, "there are forces that could weaken this planet. Everything we've built up for our loved ones, for our children, could he taken away from us overnight. We must learn to be vigilant. We must protect our liberties, our possessions, our way of life. If we become divided, and fall to bickering among each other, we will be easy prey for our enemies. We must work together, my friends. "That's what I've been thinking about this Sunday morning. Cooperation. T eamwork. We've got to be secure, and to be secure, we must be one united people. That's the key, my friends, the key to a more abundant life." Pointing out the window at the lawn and garden, Yancy said: "You know, I was... The voice trailed off. The image froze. Full room lights came on, and the watching yance-men moved into muttering activity. "Fine," one of them said. "So far, at least. But where's the rest?" "Sipling, again," another answered. "His slice still hasn't come through. What's wrong with that guy?" Scowling, Babson detached himself. "Pardon me," he said to Taverner. "I'll have to excuse myself -- technical matters. You're free to look around, if you care to. Help yourself to any of the literature -- anything you want." "Thanks," Taverner said uncertainly. He was confused ; everything seemed harmless, even trivial. But something basic was wrong. Suspiciously, he began to prowl. had pontificated on every known subject. A Yancy opinion on every conceivable topic was available... modern art, or garlic in cooking, or the use of intoxicating beverages, or eating meat, or socialism, or war, or education, or open-front dresses on women, or high taxes, or atheism, or divorce, or patriotism -- every shade and nuance of opinion possible. Was there any subject that Yancy hadnt expressed himself on? Taverner examined the voluminous tapes that lined the walls of the offices. Yancy's utterances had could one man have an opinion on everything in the universe? Choosing a tape at random, he found himself being addressed on the topic of table manners. "You know," the miniature Yancy began, his voice tinny in Taverner's ears, "at dinner the other night I happened to notice how my grandson Ralf was cutting his steak." Yancy grinned at the viewer, as an image of the six-year-old boy sawing grimly away floated briefly into sight. "Well, I got to thinking, there was Ralf working away at that steak, not having any luck with it. And it seemed to me -- " Taverner snapped the tape off and returned it to the slot. Yancy had definite opinions on everything... or were they so definite? A strange suspicion was growing in him. On some topics, yes. On minor issues, Yancy had exact rules, specific maxims drawn from mankind's rich storehouse of folklore. But major philosophical and political issues were something else again. Getting out one of the many tapes listed under War, Taverner ran it through at random. "... I'm against war," Yancy pronounced angrily. "And I ought to know; I've done my share of fighting." There followed a montage of battle scenes: the Jupiter-Mars War in which Yancy had distinguished himself by his bravery, his concern for his comrades, his hatred of the enemy, his variety of proper emotions. "But," Yancy continued staunchly, "I feel a planet must be strong. We must not surrender ourselves meekly... weakness invites attack and fosters aggression. By being weak we promote war. We must gird ourselves and protect those we love. With all my heart and soul I'm against useless wars; but I say again, as I've said many times before, a man must come forward and fight a just war. He must not shrink from his responsibility. War is a terrible thing. But sometimes we must..." As he restored the tape, Taverner wondered just what the hell Yancy had said. What were his views on war? They took up a hundred separate reels of tape; Yancy was always ready to hold forth on such vital and grandiose subjects as War, the Planet, God, Taxation. But did he say anything? A cold chill crawled up Taverner's spine. On specific -- and trivial -- items there were absolute opinions: dogs are better than cats, grapefruit is too sour without a dash of sugar, it's good to get up early in the morning, too much drinking is bad. But on big topics... an empty vacuum, filled with the vacant roll of high-sounding phrases. A public that agreed with Yancy on war and taxes and God and planet agreed with absolutely nothing. And with everything. On topics of importance, they had no opinion at all. They only thought they had an opinion. Rapidly, Taverner scanned tapes on various major subjects. It was the same all down the line. With one sentence Yancy gave; with the next he took away. The total effect was a neat cancellation, a skillful negation. But the viewer was left with the illusion of having consumed a rich and varied intellectual feast. It was amazing. And it was professional: the ends were tied up too slickly to be mere accident. Nobody was as harmless and vapid as John Edward Yancy. He was just too damn good to be true. Sweating, Taverner left the main reference room and poked his way toward the rear offices, where busy yance-men worked away at their desks and assembly tables. Activity whirred on all sides. The expression on the faces around him was benign, harmless, almost bored. The same friendly, trivial expression that Yancy himself displayed. Harmless -- and in its harmlessness, diabolical. And there wasn't a damn thing he could do. If people liked to listen to John Edward Yancy, if they wanted to model themselves after him -- what could the Niplan police do about it? What crime was being committed? No wonder Babson didn't care if the police prowled around. No wonder the authorities had freely admitted them. There weren't any political jails or labor gangs or concentratioh camps... there didn't have to be. Torture chambers and extermination camps were needed only when persuasion failed. And persuasion was working perfectly. A police state, rule by terror, came about when the totalitarian apparatus began to break down. The earlier totalitarian societies had been incomplete; the authorities hadn't really gotten into every sphere of life. But techniques of conununication had improved. The first really successful totalitarian state was being realized before his eyes: harmless and trivial, it emerged. And the last stage -- nightmarish, but perfectly logical -- was when all the newborn boys were happily and voluntarily named John Edward. Why not? They already lived, acted, and thought like John Edward. And there was Mrs. Margaret Ellen Yancy, for the women. She had her full range of opinions, too; she had her kitchen, her taste in clothes, her little recipes and advice, for all the women to imitate. There were even Yancy children for the youth of the planet to imitate. The authorities hadn't overlooked anything. Babson strolled over, a genial expression on his face. "How's it going, officer?" he chuckled wetly, putting his hand on Taverner's shoulder. "Fine," Taverner managed to answer; he evaded the hand. "You like our little establishment?" There was genuine pride in Babson's thick voice. "We do a good job. An artistic job -- we have real standards of excellence." Shaking with helpless anger, Taverner plunged out of the office and into the hall. The elevator took too long; furiously, he turned to ward the stairs. He had to get out of the Yancy Building; he had to get away. From the shadows of the hall a man appeared, face pale and taut. "Wait. Can -- I talk to you?" Taverner pushed past him. "What do you want?" "You're from the Terran Niplan Police? I -- " The man's Adam's apple bobbed. "I work here. My name's Sipling, Leon Sipling. I have to do something -- I can't stand it any more." "Nothing can be done," Taverner told him. "If they want to be like Yancy -- " "But there isn't any Yancy," Sipling broke in, his thin face twitching spasmodically. "We made him up... we invented him." Taverner halted. "You what? "I've decided." Voice quavering excitedly, Sipling rushed on: "I'm going to do something -- and I know exactly what." Catching hold of Taverner's sleeve he grated : "You've got to help me. I can stop all this, but I can't do it alone." well-furnished living room, the two of them sat drinking coffee and watching their children scramble around on the floor, playing games. Sipling's wife and Ruth Taverner were in the kitchen, drying the dishes. "Yancy is a synthesis," Sipling explained. "A sort of composite person. No such individual actually exists. We drew on basic prototypes from sociological records; we based the gestalt on various typical persons. So it's true to life. But we stripped off what we didn't want and intensified what we did want." Broodingly, he added : "There could be a Yancy. There are a lot of Yancy-like people. In fact, that's the problem." "You deliberately set out with the idea of remolding people along Yancy's line?" Taverner inquired. "I can't precisely say what the idea is, at top level. I was an ad writer for a mouth wash company. The Gallisto authorities hired me and outlined what they wanted me to do. I've had to guess as to the purpose of the project." "By authorities, you mean the governing council?" Sipling laughed sharply. "I mean the trading syndicates that own this moon: lock, stock, and barrel. But we're not supposed to call it a moon. It's a planet." His lips twitched bitterly. "Apparently, the authorities have a big program built up. It involves absorbing their trade rivals on Ganymede -- when that's done, they'll have the out-planets sewed up tight." "They can't get at Ganymede without open war," Taverner protested. "The Medean companies have their own population behind them." And then it dawned. "I see," he said softly. "They'd actually start a war. It would be worth a war, to them." "You're damn right it would. And to start a war, they have to get the public lined up. Actually, the people here have nothing to gain. A war would wipe out all the small operators -- it would concentrate power in fewer hands -- and they're few enough already. To get the the war, they need an indifferent, sheep-like public. And the're getting that. When this Yancy campaign is finished, the people here on Gallisto will accept anything. Yancy does all their thinking for them. He tells them how to wear their hair. What games to play. He tells the jokes the men repeat in their back rooms. His wife whips up the meal they all have for dinner. All over this little world -- day. Whatever he does, whatever he believes. We've been conditioning the public for eleven straight years. The important thing is the unvarying monotony of it. A whole generation is growing up looking to Yancy for an answer to everything." "It's a big business, then," Taverner observed. "This project of creating and maintaining Yancy." "Thousands of people are involved in just writing the material. You only saw the first stage -- and it goes into every city. Tapes, films, books, magazines, posters, pamphlets, dramatic visual and audio shows, plants in the newspapers, sound trucks, kids' comic strips, word-of-mouth report, elaborate ads... the works. A steady stream of Yancy." Picking up a magazine from the coffee table he indicated the lead article. " 'How is John Yancy's Heart?' Raises the question of what would we do without Yancy? Next week, an article on Yancy's stomach." Acidly, Sipling proaches. We turn it out of every pore. We're called yance-men; it's a new art-form." "How do you -- the corps, feel about Yancy?" "He's a big sack of hot air." "None of you is convinced?" "Even Babson has to laugh. And Babson is at the top; after him come the boys who sign the checks. God, if we ever started believing in Yancy... if we got started thinking that trash meant something -- " An expression of acute agony settled over Sipling's face. "That's it. That's why I can't stand it." "Why?" Taverner asked, deeply curious. His throat-mike was taking it all in, relaying it back to the home office at Washington. "I'm interested in finding out why you broke away." Sipling bent down and called his son. "Mike, stop playing and come on over here." To Taverner he explained: "Mike's nine years old. Yancy's been around as long as he's been alive." Mike came dutifully over. "Yes, sir?" "What kind of marks do you get in school?" his father asked. The boy's chest stuck out proudly; he was a clear-eyed little miniature of Leon Sipling. "All A's and B's." "He's a smart kid," Sipling said to Taverner. "Good in arithmetic, geography, history, all that stuff." Turning to the boy he said: "I'm going to ask you some questions; I want this gentleman to hear your answers. Okay?" "Yes, sir," the boy said obedientHis thin face grim, Sipling said to his son: "I want to know what you think about war. You've been told about war in school ; you know about all the famous wars in history. Right?" "Yes, sir. We learned about the American Revolution, and the First Global War, and then the Second Global War, and then the First Hydrogen War, and the War between the colonists on Mars and Jupiter." "To the schools," Sipling explained tightly to Taverner, "we distribute Yancy material -- educational subsidies in packet form. Yancy takes children through history, explains the meaning of it all. Yancy explains natural science. Yancy explains good posture and astronomy and every other thing in the universe. But I never thought my own son..." His voice trailed off unhappily, then picked up life. "So you know all about war. Okay, what do you think of war?" Promptly, the boy answered : "War is bad. War is the most terrible thing there is. It almost destroyed mankind." Eying his son intently, Sipling demanded: "Did anybody tell you to say that?" The boy faltered uncertainly. "No, sir." "You really believe those things?" "Yes, sir. It's true, isn't it? Isn't war bad?" Sipling nodded. "War is bad. But what about just wars?" Without hesitation the boy answered: "We have to fight just wars, of course." "Why?" "Well, we have to protect our way of life." "Why?" Again, there was no hesitation in the boy's reedy answer. "We can't let them walk over us, sir. That would encourage aggressive war. We can't permit a world of brute power. We have to have a world of -- " He searched for the exact word. "A world of law Wearily, half to himself, Sipling commented: "I wrote those meaningless, contradictory words myself, eight years ago." Pulling himself together with a violent effort he asked: "So war is bad. But we have to fight just wars. Well, maybe this -- planet, Callisto, will get into a war with... let's pick Ganymede, at random." He was unable to keep the harsh irony from his voice. "Just at random. Now, we're at war with Ganymede. Is it a just war? Or only a war?" This time, there was no answer. The boy's smooth face was screwed up in a bewildered, struggling frown. "No answer?" Sipling inquired icily. "Why, uh," the boy faltered. "I mean..." He glanced up hopefully. "When the time comes won't somebody say?" "Sure," Sipling choked. "Somebody will say. Maybe even Mr. Yancy." Relief flooded the boy's face. "Yes, sir. Mr. Yancy will say." He retreated back toward the other children. "Can I go, now?" As the boy scampered back to his game, Sipling turned miserably to Taverner. "You know what game they're playing? It's called Hippo-Hoppo. Guess whose grandson just loves it. Guess who invented the game." There was silence. "What do you suggest?" Taverner asked. "You said you thought something could be done." A cold expression appeared on Sipling's face, a flash of deeply-felt cunning. "I know the project... I know how it can be pried apart. But somebody has to stand with a gun at the head of the authorities. In nine years I've come to see the essential key to the Yancy character... the key to the new type of person we're growing, here. It's simple. It's the element that makes that person malleable enough to be led around." "I'll bite," Taverner said patiently, hoping the line to Washington was good and clear. "All Yancy's beliefs are insipid. The key is thinness. Every part of his ideology is diluted : nothing excessive. We've come as close as possible to no beliefs... you've noticed that. Wherever possible we've cancelled attitudes out, left the person a-political. Without a viewpoint." "Sure," Taverner agreed. "But with the illusion of a viewpoint." "All aspects of personality have to be controlled; we want the total person. So a specific attitude has to exist for each concrete question. In every respect, our rule is: Yancy believes the least troublesome possibility. The most shallow. The simple, effortless view, the view that fails to go deep enough to stir any real thought." Taverner got the drift. "Good solid lulling views." Excitedly he hurried on, "But if an extreme, original view got in, one that took real effort to work out, something that was hard to live..." "Yancy plays croquet. So everybody fools around with a mallet." Sipling's eyes gleamed. "But suppose Yancy had a preference for -- Kriegspiel." "For what?' "Chess played on two boards. Each player has his own board, with a complete set of men. He never sees the other board. A moderator sees both; he tells each player when he's taken a piece, or lost a piece, or moved into an occupied square, or made an impossible move, or checked, or is in check himself." "I see," Taverner said quickly. "Each player tries to infer his opponent's location on the board. He plays blind. Lord, it would take every mental faculty possible." "The Prussians taught their officers military strategy that way. It's more than a game: it's a cosmic wrestling match. What if Yancy sat down in the evening with his wife and grandson, and played a nice lively six-hour game of Kriegspiel? Suppose his favorite books -- instead of being western gun-toting anachronisms -- were Greek tragedy? Suppose his favorite piece of music was Bach's Art of the Fugue, not My Old Kentucky Home? "I'm beginning to get the picture," Taverner said, as calmly as possible. "I think we can help." this is -- illegal!" "Absolutely," Taverner acknowledged. "That's why we're here," He waved the squad of Niplan secret-servicemen into the offices of the Yancy Building, ignoring the stunned workers sitting bolt-upright at their desks. Into his throat-mike he said, "How's it coming with the big-shots?" "Medium," Kellman's faint voice came, strengthened by the relay system between Gallisto and Earth. "Some slipped out of bounds to their various holdings, of course. But the majority never thought we'd take action." "You can't!" Babson bleated, his great face hanging down in wattles of white dough. "What have we done? What law -- " "I think," Taverner interrupted, "we can get you on purely commercial grounds alone. You've used the name Yancy to endorse various manufactured products. There's no such person. That's a violation of statutes governing ethical presentation of advertising." Babson's mouth closed with a snap, then slid feebly open. "No -- such -- person? But everybody knows John Yancy. Why, he's -- " Stammering, gesturing, he finished, "He's everywhere." Suddenly a wretched little pistol appeared in his pulpy hand; he was waving it wildly as Dorser stepped up and quietly knocked it skidding across the floor. Babson collapsed into fumbling hysterics. Disgusted, Dorser clamped handgrapples around him. "Act like a man," he ordered. But there was no response; Babson was too far gone to hear him. Satisfied, Taverner plunged off, past the knot of stunned officials and workers, into the inner offices of the project. Nodding curtly, Taverner made his way up to the desk where Leon Sipling sat surrounded by his work. The first of the altered gestalts was already flickering through the scanner. Together, the two men stood watching it. "Well?" Taverner said, when it was done. "You're the judge." "I believe it'll do," Sipling answered nervously. "I hope we don't stir up too much... it's taken eleven years to build it up ; we want to tear it down by degrees." "Once the first crack is made, it should start swaying." Taverner moved toward the door. "Will you be all right on your own?" Book Service Phone GRamercy #-# # We Stock All current Americon Science Fiction in Book Form ond carry current Magozines ond Pocket Books. # A large selection of Science Fiction is ovoiloble of British Books, Mogozines ond Pocket Editions.  We carry a large stock of Bock Issues of Science Fiction Magazines. # Sipling glanced at Eckmund who lounged at the end of the office, eyes fixed on the uneasily working yance-men. "I suppose so. Where are you going?" "I want to watch this as it's released. I want to be around when the public gets its first look at it." At the door, Taverner lingered. "It's going to be a big job for you, putting out the gestalt on your own. You may not get much help, for awhile." Sipling indicated his co-workers; they were already beginning to pick up their tempo where they had left off. "They'll stay on the job," he disagreed. "As long as they get full salaries." Taverner walked thoughtfully across the hall to the elevator. A moment later he was on his way downstairs. At a nearby street comer, a group of people had collected around a public vid-screen. Anticipating the late-afternoon t-v cast of John Edward Yancy, The gestalt began in the regular way. There was no doubt about it : when Sipling wanted to, he could put together a good slice. And in this case he had done practically the whole pie. In rolled-up shirt sleeves and dirt-stained trousers, Yancy crouched in his garden, a trowel in one hand, straw hat pulled down over his eyes, grinning into the warm glare of the sun. It was so real that Taverner could hardly believe no such person existed. But he had watched Sipling' s sub-crews laboriously and expertly constructing the thing from the ground up. "Afternoon," Yancy rumbled genially. He wiped perspiration from his steaming, florid face and got stiffly to his feet. "Man," he admitted, "it's a hot day." He indicated a flat of primroses. "I was setting them out. Quite a job." So far so good. The crowd watched impassively, taking their ideological nourishment without particular resistance. All over the moon, in every house, schoolroom, office, on each street corner, the same gestalt was showing. And it would be shown again. "Yes," Yancy repeated, "it's really hot. Too hot for those primroses -- they like the shade." A fast panup showed he had carefully planted his primroses in the shadows at the base of his garage. "On the other hand," Yancy continued, in his smooth, good-natured, over-theback-fence conversational voice, "my dahlias need lots of sun." The camera leaped to show the dahlias blooming frantically in the blazing sunlight. Throwing himself down in a striped lawnchair, Yancy removed his straw hat and wiped his brow with a pocket handkerchief. "So," he continued genially, "if anybody asked me which is better, shade or sun. I'd have to reply it depends on whether you're a primrose or a dahlia." He grinned his famous guileless boyish grin into the cameras. "I guess I must be a primrose -- I've had all the sun I can stand for today." The audience was taking it in without complaint. An inauspicious beginning, but it was going to have long-term consequences. And Yancy was starting to develop them right now. His genial grin faded. That familiar look, that awaited serious frown showing that deep thoughts were coming, faded into place. Yancy was going to hold forth: wisdom was on the way. But it was nothing ever uttered by him before. "You know," Yancy said slowly, seriously, "that makes a person do some thinking." Automatically, he reached for his glass of gin and tonic -- a glass which up until now would have contained beer. And the magazine beside it wasn't Dog Stories Monthly; it was The Journal of Psychological Review. The alteration of peripheral props would sink in subliminally ; right now, all conscious attention was riveted on Yancy's words. "It occurs to me," Yancy orated, as if the wisdom were fresh and brand-new, arriving just now, "that some people might maintain that, say, sunlight is good and shade is bad. But that's downright silly. Sunlight is good for roses and dahlias, but it would darn well finish off my fuchsias." The camera showed his ubiquitous prize fuchsias. "Maybe you know people like that. They just don't understand that -- " And as was his custom, Yancy drew on folklore to make his point. "That one man's meat," he stated profoundly, "is another man's poison. Like, for instance, for breakfast I like a couple of eggs done sunny-side up, maybe a few stewed prunes, and a piece of toast. But Margaret, she prefers a bowl of cereal. And Ralf, he won't take either. He likes flapjacks. And the fellow down the street, the one with the big front lawn, he likes a kidney pie and a bottle of stout." Taverner winced. Well, they would have to feel their way along. But still the audience stood absorbing it, word after word. The first feeble stirrings of a radical idea: that each person had a different set of values, a unique style of life. That each person might believe, enjoy, and approve of different things. It would take time, as Sipling said. The massive library of tapes would have to be replaced ; injunctions built up in each area would have to be broken down. A new type of thinking was being introduced, starting with a trite observation about primroses. When a nine-year-old boy wanted to find out if a war was just or unjust, he would have to inquire into his own mind. There would be no ready answer from Yancy; a gestalt was already being prepared on that, showing that every war had been called just by some, unjust by others. There was one gestalt Taverner wished he could see. But it wouldn't be around for a long time; it would have to wait. Yancy was going to change his taste in art, slowly but steadily. One of these days, the public would learn that Yancy no longer enjoyed pastoral calendar scenes. That now he preferred the art of that fifteenth century Dutch master of macabre and diabolical horror, Hieronymus Bosch.    Earth was through with war. And while it is right that man have peace, it is also right that he have freedom. But Mars was in slavery, and to Mars Cornel Lorensse dedicated his life and his talent... Illustrated by Paul Orban occasionally these days as a behind it all reminders of war. The stirring concert or band selection, psychosociologists said uniforms of But there was a time when its playpolicemen, of postmen, of airline ing was punishable by death -- and pilots, of lodge brethren, of theater its defiant strains challenged the ushers, were militaristic, and they harried police in tavern and drawwere abolished. The psychosociing room all over the Earth. ologists said the march rhythm in In the days just before one music was nationalistic and instimarche militaire changed two gated combative feelings, and it worlds. Earth was weary of war, was banned. The scenes, the sounds, the sights of antagonisms between men were forbidden. The Polonaise, the Marseillaise, the March of the Toys, all suffered the same fate. Sousa's marches and Tschaikovsky's # Overture went the same way. Dixie and the Hawaiian War Chant were treated alike. All were relegated to tape in dusty archives, and their sale or public performance forbidden on pain of fine and prison sentence. Whatever unlawful violence there might be on faraway Mars, Earth was through with all forms of war and its trappings. Into these circumstances. Cornel Lorensse intruded on the night of December #, #. He pressed his thin face against the steam-misted window of The Avatar in Nuyork and saw a piano standing idle inside The Avatar was one of those small restaurants sunk a few feet below sidewalk level, which catered with exotic dishes to the tastes of a select group. It was well-populated at this hour, and Cornel licked his lips hungrily at the epicurean delights unveiled at each table. He felt in the pocket of his worn coveralls. A single coin answered the exploration of his fingers. He was down to his last resource, and he was no nearer to finding the Friends than he had been when he landed. He looked again at the piano, hesitated, then went down the three steps to the restaurant's door, pushed it open and went in. It was his good fortune that Wan Ti, owner of The Avatar was receiving his guests in person at the moment. "I'll play you a concert for a meal," said Cornel, gesturing toward the piano. Wan Ti's dark eyes swept over him, taking in the battered coveralls, the earnest face, the untrimmed blond hair, the slender hands. Wan Ti's yellow countenance remained bland. "I have a piano player," said Wan Ti. Cornel laughed, with a note of desperation in his tone. "Let me play one selection," he urged. "If you want to stop me then, you can kick me out." What Wan Ti thought could not be gauged from his expression, but he had not built his clientele against fierce competition by turning his face away from the unusual. He inclined his head slightly, and waved Cornel to the piano. Cornel sat down at the keyboard, brushed his hair back from his eyes, and flexed his long fingers. Thrusting the tantalizing aroma of food to the back of his mind, he played. The murmur of conversation in The Avatar faltered and died as the fervid melody of Beethoven's Sonata Appassionata filled the air. It was unusual music to people accustomed to hearing the more modern compositions of Schonberg, Harris and Westine. The comparison of Cornel's inspired touch to the mechanical renditions of Wan Ti's regular piano player was noticeable even to those who were unfamiliar with music. When the final movements of the allegro ma non troppo faded, Cornel sat back and looked toward Wan Ti. The proprietor cocked an ear toward the rare applause, smiled and nodded slightly. Exultantly, Cornel swung into Chopin's fantasie-Impromptu and followed it, not pausing, with Liszt's Waldesrauschen and Schubert's Serenode. The applause was just as enthusiastic, but by now the hum of voices and the click of eating utensils had begun to rise again. Frowning slightly. Cornel hunched his shoulders and began a composition the most musical of his audience had never heard before. Like the molten notes of the nightingale, the music floated and throbbed above the diners, almost a physical thing. The people in the restaurant paused with food halfway to their lips. They turned to see the artist, carefully, so that no chair would scrape. The waiters stopped with trays in their hands. Wan Ti stopped a newly arriving couple, his fingers at his lips. In the midst of the applause that roared through the room when Cornel had finished, a waiter tapped his shoulder. "Excuse me, sir," he said. "Miss Meta Erosine asks that you join her at her table." Rising and bowing to his audience, Cornel followed the man to a table at the rear of the room, where a woman sat with her escort. Meta Erosine's pale, heartshaped face, with its mop of short black hair and luminous black eyes, was widely known on Earth, but Cornel had never been to Earth before. Her vibrant beauty blazed the patriot on a victim unprepared for it. She was clad in the cretan-cancan style just then becoming popular, with breasts exposed over a tight bodice and a short, ruffled skirt gathered in front to reveal the knees. She smoked a longstemmed, tiny-bowled pipe, studded with jewels. Beside her sat a sleek, mustached young man in ruffled lavender shirt and pink tights, his fingers covered with rings. "Sit down and eat with me, musician," invited Meta. Somewhat dubiously, Cornel took a seat at her right, across the table from the beruffled escort. "Meta, I wish you wouldn't demean yourself by taking up with tramps and guttersnipes," objected her companion, wrinkling his nose. "Leave me, Passo," she ordered, waving an imperious hand. "Why should I sup with painted popinjays when I can adore genius?" Passo flushed and his mouth fell open. But he arose and slunk quietly away. "Now, musician," said Meta, leaning over the table so that her powdered breasts brushed the glassware, "tell me, what was that last number you played?" "One of my own compositions," he said diffidently. The odor of food was too much for him, and he leaned across the table to appropriate Passo's untouched salad. "Its name is Wind in the Canals'" "It should be Le Vent dans les Canals," she said. "You should title your compositions in French -- they will be more fashionable." "I don't know French," he said. munching a stick of celery. "We don't speak French on Mars." She laughed, a laugh like the music of his playing. "You will, my genius," she promised him. Her eyes ran over his lean face, his unkempt hair. "You look as though you could use shelter and clothing. Come home with me tonight. I shall give your genius to the world." such luxury as was his in the apartment Meta assigned to him in her magnificent home in Jersi. He had his personal servant. New clothes were waiting for him. A barber cut his hair when he had finished a hot, scented bath, and the big bed in which he slept was soft as down. Meta asked no information of him until they met at a late breakfast the next morning. There, beautiful in translucent white negligee, she sipped her coffee and asked questions. "I came from Mars to get help for my people," he said. "We need guns and supplies, food and oxygen equipment." "You're one of the Gharax rebels?" she asked. "Rebels?" He snorted. "We're free people, fighting for our freedom. We want self-government, we want to own our land and our homes, we want the right to rule our own lives." "That's guaranteed in the Constitution," said Meta. "Earth's Constitution. Mars isn't Earth. The Mars Corporation controls botn spaceports. It owns all business and industry on Mars. It's milking the planet dry of resources and profits, and it's set up a company government that makes the people of Mars no better than slaves." He smiled a bitter smile. "Earth's government protects the freedom of Earth's people," he said, "but the people of Earth don't know what's happening on Mars. The Mars Corporation has its senators and representatives, bought and paid for, so the Earth government sends troops and supplies to Mars to fight the battles of the Mars Corporation. We aren't rebels, we're fighting for our just freedom." "If the Mars Corporation controls the spaceports, how did you get to Earth?" she demanded. "We have three battered ships hidden in the desert near Syrtis Major," said Gomel. "It takes a long time for us to get fuel to take one of them up, but they thought it worthwhile if I could get to Earth and get help for my people." "Why you?" "My music is well known on Mars, and my people know that the people of Earth love music. Here on Earth, where there is peace and prosperity, people pay to hear good music and good musicians. Our plan was for me to give great concerts and at each concert ask the people of Earth to help their Martian brothers gain their freedom." "A good way to get arrested," said Meta dryly. "You'd be convicted of inciting military action and sentenced to prison in any court of Earth." "I didn't know that, but I suppose the Friends would have a way. "The Friends?" "The Friends of Mars. It's an organization of Earth people trying to help us. I suppose it must be a secret and illegal organization, for I found that the man I was supposed to get in touch with had been arrested, and I haven't been able to find out anything more about the Friends." "Such an organization would be illegal on Earth," said Meta. "Come here, Gomel. I want to show you something." Taking him by the arm, she led him from the breakfast room to a terrace overlooking a snowy valley. She moved closer to him in the chill wind that billowed her thin garments around her, and waved her hand at the scene below them. "This is Earth," she said. "Look at those mountain peaks, the blue sky and the white clouds. In summer, this valley is clothed with green, and warm breezes bring the scent of flowers to this terrace. Have you ever seen anything like this on Mars?" "No," he said softly. "Mars is always cold and dusty, and the sky is nearly black." "Cornel," she said softly, you're a great musician. Mars is rough frontier territory, and the frontier has no place for music. Last night you saw what your music could mean here. "Forget Mars. You belong to Earth." Lorensse to fame in #I I and # now commands a full column in the Encyclopaedia Terrestriana. Bmshed off in a single sentence in the encyclopaedia, but much discussed in that day, was his close relationship with Meta Erosine, his patroness. For half a decade, wealthy, beautiful Meta Erosine had been the toast of Earth. She was an actress, a painter, a singer, a socialite, and she had changed men almost as often as she changed the dresses she wore. Her face was familiar in newspapers and on television screens, her husky songs were on a ful antics were the grist for magazine articles and the subject of denunciations from the pulpit. In Cornel she seemed to have found a vehicle for all the burning fire of her energy. She pushed him, she groomed him, she threw the power of her wealth behind him. His slender figure clad in a black velvet suit sat at polished pianos on a hundred stages; and for each concert, the auditoriums and the audiences were bigger. Meta was with him on these concert tours; and between tours he stayed in seclusion at the big house in Jersi, putting into music his memories of his native Mars. Each tour introduced to the world the new compositions of Gomel Lorensse. What he wrote and played was the haunting music of the deserts, the canals and the marches. Into his music he poured the loneliness of the red sands and the violence of the desert winds, the beauty of sable skies jeweled with enormous stars, the happiness of the helmeted traveler when he reaches the green valleys of the canals, the hopes and joys of human lovers gathered in bubble-like domes amid the chill wastelands. He did not, as Meta had wanted to, give his compositions French titles. He named them as he would have named them on Mars: The Desert Wanderer, Swift Phobos, Marsh Gardens, names that were strange to Earth, but were familiar themes of his own people. His melodies took music-loving Earth by storm. They burst upon a world in which #th century dissonance had strangled #th century romanticism, like flowers in a garden of crystal. It was Cornel Lorensse and those pioneer composers who avidly aped him who began the #st century Renaissance in music. Without shame. Cornel lived on the largesse of his patroness, for his growing fees and royalties all went for one purpose. He had found the society called the Friends of Mars, and everything that he earned he poured into their coffers to finance privateer space vessels able to elude the Mars Corporation's company-owned warships and to keep a thin line of supplies flowing to the Free Martian people scattered in their desert strongholds. Like any secret society in a hostile culture, the Friends of Mars maintained dissociated chapters, connected by the slenderest and most carefully guarded lines of communication. Cornel knew of only one chapter, in Nuyork, and to this he took his contributions when he was between concert tours. During one of those visits, late in the summer of #, Javan Tomlin, chief of the chapter, told him that all he contributed was still not enough for Mars to become free. "Our base of support isn't broad enough," said Javan. "Ships cost money, fuel costs money, supplies cost money. Guns and ammunition are most expensive of all, because military weapons are illegal. No one man can support such an operation, even when he makes the kind of money you're making." There were half a dozen of the Friends of Mars, besides Cornel and Javan, in the meeting room. The others nodded agreement at Javan's words. "None of us are wealthy and we can't contribute much but our time and work," said one of them. "The wealthy people all sympathize with the Mars Corporation." "That's too much of a blanket indictment," said Javan. "The Mars Corporation controls the spacelines to Mars, and what little information comes back to Earth is censored and heavily propagandized in their favor. Most people don't know what's happening on Mars. Our people need a powerful radio transmitter to broadcast to Earth, Cornel." Cornel shook his head. "What information the people of Earth get must be disseminated on Earth," he said. "Powerful radio equipment would take up space and weight needed for arms. Besides, the Mars Corporation forces have air power and directional finders. They'd bomb a permanent installation before it had a chance to send out its second broadcast." "All we can do is work and hope," said Javan gloomily. "If we had a fleet of about a dozen good ships, we might be able to swing it, but we have only two and a third abuilding." "There are three on Mars," Cornel pointed out. "One was blasted in space last week, and they're too old to lift more than half cargo, anyhow," said Javan. "The corporation controls the Earth space stations, through the government, and we have to use direct drive stagerockets." Cornel left, not feeling very optimistic. At the curb outside the club, he looked up and down the street for a cab to take him to the heliport where his copter was parked. There was no cab in sight, but from a side street a little distance away a long black limousine swung into the boulevard, sped swiftly to the club entrance and halted. The back door opened and Meta leaned out, beckoning. "Get in, quick!" she urged. "We've got to get away from here!" Not understanding, Cornel got in. The car roared away with a burst of acceleration that thrust him back on the cushions beside her. "What in Saturn?" he demanded and turned to look out the rear window. A squad of police cars was converging on the club he had just left. Sirens screaming, they pulled up, blocking the street, and armed officers in plain clothes leaped out and hurried into the club. Meta put her arms around his neck and drew his head down to her lap. "They're raiding the Friends of Mars," she said, and a soothing note crept into her tone. "You're safe, darling. They don't know you were there." "But how did they know? How did you know?" he demanded, struggling unsuccessfully to free himself from the imprisonment of her embrace. The sound of the sirens had died in the distance behind them. "I told them," Meta said firmly. "Where do you think I get the wealth you've been living on, darling? I own a fourth of the stock of the Mars Corporation." T he next morning. Cornel had disappeared. Meta was frantic. Every available agency was pressed into service, but Nuyork and Cornel had vanished. It was two weeks before he returned. When he did, he was gaunt and grim and dirty as he had been the night Meta had first seen him in The Avatar. "Darling, why did you run away?" she asked, holding him close in her arms. "I came back because I love you," he answered tiredly. "But I came back, too, because I love Mars more, Meta. I had to go away and think what I was to do." "It's all right now," she soothed. "You understand that the odds against your rebels are just too heavy. You have a life on Earth to live." "Yes," he said in a low voice. "But there'll be no concerts this season, Meta." "Cornel, you can't cancel now! The schedule's all arranged." "I shall cancel," he said firmly. "You want me to live on Earth, so you must let me learn about Earth. I intend to spend this winter studying psychosociology and terrestrial law -- and composing." Her brow cleared. "If you'll continue your composing, it's all right," she said. "Next season's concerts can be the greatest ever. I'll pay off the promoters, darling." So it was done. That season the admirers of Cornel Lorensse's music had to content themselves with recordings. Cornel himself spent his time quietly at Nuyork University and at the house in Jersi. As she had said, the # concert season was Cornel's greatest, right from the start. In part it was due to Meta's own efforts, for she spent tremendous sums of money and utilized her own famous personality to great advantage in promotional work. Across the nation, across the the world, the tour swept, snowballing constantly. Christmas of #, and Cornel Lorensse introduced a great new hymn. From the Polar Caps, New Year's Day, #, and The Years to Come was introduced by radio and television at a thousand parties. There had been some quibbling at the beginning of the season, because the business directors of the tour had wanted to combine the drawing power of Cornel's name with that of well-known concert orchestras. Cornel insisted on using his own orchestra, built up carefully during his year of study. As the season progressed, it became apparent that Cornel's name alone was enough of a drawing card. February, March, #, and every network had bought into the schedule. When Cornel Lorensse's weekly concerts were on the air, there was nothing else on radio or television, anywhere in the world, except on the non-affiliated local stations. April passed triumphantly, and the final concert was scheduled for May # in Rome. The D'Annunzio Colosseum, built in #, was filled to capacity. Careful staging was necessary, to care for all the cameras and microphones of the various television and radio networks. The program was not a long one: Debussy's Clair de Lune, Lorensse's Swift Phohos, Beethoven's Moonlight Sonata, Waco's Variations on a Theme by Altdown -- and the words "To be announced." It was a familiar phrase, and it always meant the introduction of a new composition by Cornel Lorensse. The concert went smoothly before -- how many listeners? Fifty brightly lighted stage Cornel played the concert grand with superb mastery and bowed to the applause, a pale, solemn figure in black. When he had acknowledged the acclamation after the Waco piece, the audience waited in hushed silence for his announcement of the final number on the program. "The composition I am about to play is the culmination of my musical career," Cornel said quietly into the microphones. "It is a product of my studies, not only of music, but of psychosociology and law. "In hypnoschool last year, I studied the effects of music on the human mind. It is a new field, and many of you are aware of it only through the fact that certain kinds of music are forbidden by law as dangerous to peace on Earth. "I have tried to go into it much more deeply than that." He smiled bitterly. "Most of you know that I am a Martian, one of the so-called Martian rebels," he said. "I think much of the appeal of my music to you has been its Martian quality. To the people of Earth, most of whom have never seen Mars, it has pictured my planet. "My latest composition will do so even more graphically, for it has been composed on a deliberate psychological foundation. This song will show Mars to you. It will show you my people, and what my people want. "I may add that I have studied the law carefully, and I can assure you that this composition is not military in nature. "Ladies and gentlemen of Earth, accompanied by the orchestra I shall now play The Martianne, In the control rooms of the auditorium and of relay points throughout the world, censors, vaguely alarmed by Comers words, hovered with their fingers on cutoff keys. Then they relaxed. Cornel had told the truth. There was nothing of a military nature in the opening bars of The Martianne. It was a theme handled, but less competently, in some of his other compositions. The woodwinds began on a soft, sad note, gradually rising in power, like the thin winds that moaned across the Martian desert sands. Into this, almost inaudibly at first, crept the clear piano notes that marked the cautious, wondering intrusion of humanity on an alien world. The drums beat the construction of the domes, the horns blared the landing of the spaceships, the violins cried the hopes of the men and women who went to Mars to find a new life. It was a picture in music, so skilfully drawn that when the first discordance crept in, every listener could identify it instantly as the age-old greed of man seeking to subvert frontier freedoms to his own selfish ends. When the blare of trumpets and the ruffle of drums thundered into the final militant theme of The Martianne, every listener knew it bespoke the valiant fight of men for freedom against an oppressor. Every listener knew what he heard was music that had been (Continued on page #) Mans every resource was being stripped to a throwback, and a poacher, and his punishment had to fit the crime... town near Charles Neck on and since I live mostly with myself, Murdock Sound. It's so run down I had to quit. Still, I knew I and useless that a lot of old books couldn't get away with backwardstill hang around on the shelves, the ness, and that sooner or later the kinds of fancy little stars or small, this bussing insect, and get on with curly designs to show the end of one its work again as usual, section and the beginning of anIllustrated by Paul Orhan took over the Sound in our remote ber morning, when I was half area, I didn't have much to do in through a couple of eggs and a cup the day time, so I used to walk of coffee, I heard the throb of a down the road to town and get a motor. I walked down to the end handful of these stiff backs once in of my wharf and looked skyward. I a while. From reading them I got was pretty sure they wouldn't come the notion I'm a one man resistby land, because most of the secance movement, which is pitiful ondary roads were in bad shape; and foolish, and, I gather, always and they wouldn't travel by water, has been a seedy, run-down sort of because that took too much gas and and feelings. That's me, alright: anything. They couldn't afford to. backward. I tried to be forward. Everything went for food, its growth, collection, and processing. The big freighters, some of them, had atomic piles, but that power was impossibly clumsy and expensive for smaller boats. So they came by air in the usual inspection helicopter. The pilot dropped her in the cove right alongside the wharf and made fast. Three men stepped onto the planks. They had the their overcoat arms and caps, and they looked cold and bored. A small sea sucked at the pilings and the helicopter rose and fell, grating against the wharf. I looked at the pilot and said, "Better put your chafing gear out if you intend staying a while." We all watched while the pilot put a few kapoks at the tight spots. Then he looked at a notebook and said, "You George Arthur Henry?" I said, "Gall me George." This inspector was the usual type: tired from long hours, bored from doing nothing on a weary round of food inspections. He hunched his shoulders against the wind. I said, "It's warmer inside." They followed me into the kitchen of the house. All three of them started to sit down, then stopped, and walked over to the table in perfect step. They looked at the cold remains of my breakfast eggs. up and said, "Eggs." The others nodded, wordless with wonder. Then the inspector said, "Chickens?" "Where," I said, "do you think I got the eggs?" The little man alongside the inspector came to life. In three dextrous movements he had glasses on, a notebook in his hand, and stylus poised. "What do you feed them?" he inquired eagerly. "Seeds," I said, "insects, chopped up garter snakes, mussels, ground up oyster shells. You boys have all the grain." There was an excited light in the little man's eyes. He hurried out to a broken down shed to examine the chickens. That left two of them. The inspector continued to gaze at the remains on the plate in a dreamy way. The other man straightened his big shoulders, looked at me, and said, jerking his thumb toward the shed, "Mr. Garter's an ecologist. He just came along for the trip. He's on his way to the Government Experimental Farm over at Murdock. I'm a government sociologist. I was sent here to have a talk with you. My name is Ranson." "Sure. Sit down. I guess I'm licked, but there's no use making a rumpus about it." I turned to the inspector whose eyes were still caught in the egg plate. I said, "Ever taste them?" "Once," he said, in a far away voice. I went to the cupboard and came back with a paper bag full of eggs and put it in his hands. He held them as if someone had just given him the wheat sheaf badge of merit. "I won't be needing these after our little talk, I expect. Take them home to the kiddies." He smiled, looked at the sociologists, who grinned back and nodded. The inspector walked very carefully out of the back door and down to the wharf to stow his eggs in the helicopter. Ranson shifted in his chair. He said, "That was very nice of you, Mr. Henry." "George," I said. "Against the law, of course." There was a smile around his eyes. "Are you against the law, George?" "Yes. No use bluffing. You know the story. All the waters and everyand everything on it. I don't like packaged food. I like real food. I don't like my oysters, crabs, clams, fish minced up and blended with chick weed, cereals, yeast, algae, plankton, and flavored to taste a little like steak. And plenty of others feel the same. I have a market." "An illegal market." "Yes," I said. "By God, if you had told my father, before I was born, that the oysters he tonged could not be eaten as oysters, he'd have laughed in your face. And if you had told him he wouldn't even be allowed to tong them, he'd have cussed you good and proper!" "People have to be fed. The only way we can do it is to combine the total food resources of the world, process and package them, and do it as efficiently as possible. That means absolute control of all food sources and their harvesting. You could important work." "I know. It's so important nothing else gets done. Have you seen the roads around here? Half the bridges are down across Charles Neck and Walter Hook. You can't get gas. You can't get telephones, and if you happen to have one, it doesn't work half the time. And the busses don't run any more. And -- " Ranson held up his hand. "It's an emergency, George. You have to realize that. It's been building up for a long time, long before your father worked the oyster beds in Murdock Sound." "There's another thing," I said. "Before you fellows closed the Sound, I was independent. I had my own boat and I made my own in the Sound and the whole job is done in a month or two. And who are the watermen? A couple of clerks to every scoop who turn a valve every once in a while and draw their packaged food, clothing, and entertainment once a week. Do you call that a job? Why, those food clerks couldn't even lift a pair of thirty foot rakes, let alone tong with them." "We get more oysters, George, and in less time, and we do it scientifically." Ranson tapped his notebook with the stylus and he looked out of the kitchen window. He was giving me time to cool off. He'd been kind and patient when he didn't have to be either. With his job he had no time to sit and reason with a one man resistance movement. He had no time for anything but food, and organizing society to keep it grubbing incessantly for food, and, at the same time, to keep society as orderly and contented as possible. I was not orderly and I was not contented. But I was just one man, not society. I cooled off. I said, "Look, Ranson. It's like this. I know you're right. I've had a look around, and I've thought about it some. The figures are with you : too many men and not enough food. Only thing is, even from your I have to be on my own. There ought to be somewhere, someplace for a man, instead of a food clerk -- " I trailed off unhappily. "I'm afraid you have no alternative, George. You are a criminal punished." He paused. "I won't work for them." Garter, the ecologist, burst in at the door, slammed his gloves down in the middle of the kitchen table. "Ranson, you never saw anything like it. Fifty in the flock, two roosters, all in fine shape. Lice of course, some bone malformation in the legs. But healthy." He began to ask me dozens of questions, but Ransom interrupted. "I need your help. Carter, and time's wasting. Among other depredations, George Henry, here, has been robbing government oyster beds, trapping government crabs, netting government fish, presumably at night I needn't add that he has a ready and lucrative market. In effect, he refuses to cease his depredations, he refuses to join the ative." Garter said, "uncooperative," in an absent way. He dragged his mind away from a flock of fifty fowl living in a most unusual ecology, narrowed his eyes, and asked a shrewd question. no "How did he get there?" "What?" "To the beds." Ranson said, "Where did you get the gas, George?" "I didn't. Took the engine out, put in a well and center-board, shipped a mast, and rigged her for sail. She's tucked away up in Marshwater Greek." They were astounded. Nobody had sailed pleasure craft for a generation: no leisure and no money for such a waste of time; and sail craft were too ineflcient for food collecting. "My God, George," Ranson said, "you're a living anachronism!" Carter nodded. He adjusted his glasses, looked at me, and said quietly, "He is also an able man." "His abilities will be largely wasted in a Penal Food Processing Plant," Ranson said grimly. "Oh, I agree, I agree." Garter nodded his head emphatically. "The wrong environment entirely. No scope. No initiative." He gave me a glance of understanding that warmed me right through and also had the unfortunate effect of taking some of the starch out of me. I had been prepared for hostility and indifference. I stood up and walked to the sink for a glass of water I didn't want. "Now," Carter said, talking to Ranson, "you take the way he walks. Notice how he swings his arms, with his hands a little forward, as if ready to grip, and the tilt of his head, alert, watchful. You don't see that often. Different attitude, different environment." Ranson sighed. "Get down to business." "Yes. There's always this terrible lack of manpower, machine power, everything, all swallowed up in food. And besides, the men can't stand those bird stations. Too lonely. Can't meet an emergency. Four of them died on Rollins Island three winters ago when the power plant failed. Just sat there and froze. Terrible thing. Had to install emergency two-way radios; need the equipment elsewhere." "They died of loneliness, if you ask me," Ranson said. Carter nodded. "And no gas available for boat inspection. Helicopter too wasteful for a single station. Put George out there with one or two others. Could you sail out? Seaworthy? Big enough?" I said yes. "Good. Food processing all done by machines. Just feed birds in. Take up to half the colony of young birds when bred, half the old ones when coming to nest. Regular inspection of tern colonies by sail, your boat. Helicopter lands June twenty, small freighter in July to load processed birds in Rollins Harbor. Just the thing." He took off his glasses to show that the problem had been solved. "Look," Ranson said. "I don't have anything against George personally. I want him to be useful and contented. If he can't be contented, then at least I want him to be useful, instead of wasteful. Robbing government food resources is a ave offense, but even that doesn't justify putting him down in the middle of a pile of excrement where no ordinary man can breath for more than a few minutes without stifling." "Healthy," Carter said. "Healthy. It does stink. That's one reason we have such trouble keeping the stations manned." "Boys," I said. "What is this pile of dung I'm supposed to sit on? And what birds? And why?" Carter explained. In the desperate search for food, the sea birds were now being subjected to an annual harvest. From various nesting places along all the ocean coasts in the world, birds were harvested, to say nothing of their eggs, in large numbers. It was simply a matter of ering their eggs, and feeding the processing hoppers with same. These foods were later shipped to Food Processing Plants to be added to other harvests and packaged for consumption. In some cases, more specialized processing was necessary, as with the fulmars on Rollins Island. The fulmars were much prized because their alimentary system contained an especially stinking oil rich in fat and vitamin A. In their case, no eggs were collected, since they bred only once in a season, and the birds were separately processed to retrieve the oil. their eggs were cropped yearly from nesting sites on the east coast of North America alone. It was a regular and assured source of food on an enormous scale the world over. The thousands of tons of excrement were also gathered every five years to be used in food processing and in agriculture. It was in nothing and to use everything. The cropping of the young birds took place in the spring and early summer, depending on the species. The adult birds were trapped by various devices when they returned to their nests. Over-cropping was carefully avoided to insure a steady annual production, "If it's the island or a Penal Food Plant, I'll take the island. I'm a waterman, not a bird collector. At least I'll get a chapce to use the boat once in a while." lieved. Then Ranson put a question. "Do you know of anyone eke around here who might be fitted for such work? I'm not asking you to inform. I know there's been a good deal of discontent in this Sound region, which is one reason why I'm here. The island may be a solution for other misfits as well." I thought it over. "The Jackson boys aren't very happy. They were the best men with drift nets this Sound has ever seen. Now they sit on stools all day long and watch a row of bottles pass in front of lights. Once in a while they lift a bottle out of the line and put it aside. They get very drunk every night on some stuff they make out of berries and dandelions from the marsh." Ranson sighed. Carter again passed a warming look of complete understanding, and nodded encouragement. "Then there's Pete Younger. He the muskrat areas. He turns a valve several hundred times a day in the Small Fish Processor. He oils his traps and talks to himself. He may be too far gone. I think he is." "Anyone else?" bight on them for good, I guess. They were men, once." "Are the Jackson men married?" I smiled. "No. We're dying out." Garter chuckled. Rollins Island. The Jackson boys and I loaded the boat with clothing mostly. Food was stored on the island. I took along four pairs of oyster rakes, I didn't have the heart to leave them behind. And Bill and Joy took a huge ball of linen twine, ropes, corks, rings, all the makings for a drift net. Unexpectedly, Carter showed up at the last minute by helicopter to see us off. He jumped up on the wharf smiling. "About those chickens," he said, "they're condemned stock of course. Better take them along. And keep an eye on them. Want to know how they make out in a new environment." Then he took me aside and handed me a small book. "Lot of information in this. Written by a small animal ecologist. Read it. Read it carefully. Think about it. Read it again, and think some more. Got that?" I said, "Sure. I'll read it." I had the notion he was trying to get something over without actually coming out with it flat, so I listened carefully. He paused for a while, wiping his glasses and pursing his lips. "That island's not right for fulmars and gannets. Wrong environment. Never have multiplied as they should. Whole thing should be concentrated north. Plenty of cliff sites north. None here. Won't do. Terns, yes. Fulmars and gannets, no. pidly so. It works, they say. I tell them it works badly. It's going to take a lot to move them : total failure of a colony or two. "You're intelligent, George. Put two and two together. Wish you luck." He shook my hand quickly and jumped into the helicopter. Bill and Joy had to call me twice before I could come out of a trance of bewildered speculation. In a daze I helped the boys load our last piece of equipment: a huge barrel of salt they had pilfered from the local Food Plant. T he island is big, about five by fifteen miles, and it must have been a fine piece of land. It still was, even though mucked everywhere with white-to-greenish bird dung. There were steep hills on the mainland side, marshes to seaward, and in the middle natural meadowland broken by woods containing pine, and some beech and maple. We moored in a small but fairly deep harbor at a wharf for loading foods. Our barracks stood just off the wharf. In addition to all the necessities, there was a two-way radio, marked "Use in emergency only", and a handbook with information on approximate numbers of birds to be taken, locations of nesting sites, and so on. Equipment, including snares and nets, was stored in an equipment room. And there was a storeroom containing packaged foods, no freezing or cooling necessary for preservation. Behind the barracks stood a warehouse for storing processed birds, and a shop with the processors themselves. Everything looked orderly and efficient. A small plant supplied us with light and heat and power for the machines. We arrived in November. By December, the first sea birds began to return to their nesting sites, a few at a time. Soon we were so busy snagging them as they came to land that we had little time for anything but work and sleep. Even so. Bill took the time to salt several dozens of gannets and fulmars for future eating, and he was looking forward to the eggs. Spring and early summer soon rolled around, and we were collecting young birds, the nestlings. So it went. I can't say any of us liked the work. For one thing we all sickened of the endless slaughter. For another, the stench and dirt were overwhelming. The island should have been a fine place for living. There were sheltered spots for houses, a small harbor, woodlots, meadows for cattle and pigs, some bottom land for food crops, the sea for fish -- a fine location; but it was ruined by birds. It was a slimy, stinking hell. The birds flew everywhere in huge flocks, especially in the morning when the gannets and fulmars came back from fishing at sea. Excrement fell from the sky like a stinking sleet. We couldn't get away from the smell or the smell away from us. It was in our clothing, hair, under our fingernails. No watermen ever washed so often or so thoroughly as we did, but the stink remained. We lost weight and appetite steadily, for the packaged fo tasted of excrement soon after it was opened, or seemed to, which is just as bad. However, by the end of June most of the birds had left, and we had our helicopter inspection. The same man who was fascinated by the cold remains of a couple of eggs in my kitchen was on this route, and we cooked three or four of our chickens. His enormous appetite sharpened ours, and we had a feast. He was almost tearfully grateful. By July, the freighter had put in, loaded, and left. For the first time in many months, we were unoccupied. Bill and Joy immediately set about knitting a large drift net. They were happily excited at the of government fish. As for me, I sat down to read a book on small animal ecology. I read that book through three times. I kept at it night and day, and it was the hardest work I've ever done, because I wasn't reading just to pass the time. There was a message in that book, I was sure of it, a message from Carter, a man I liked and trusted. By the time I began to get a glimmering of an idea as to what Garter's message was, the boys had their net knitted and hung. I went back to the book to find out what to do about this idea, and the boys sailed out to drift the net. I waited for them in a sweat of impatience. They came back at dawn the next day with a boat load of food fish. I met them at the wharf. "Bill," I said, "what are you going to do with that load of fish?" Bill looked at the fish. He said with slow and tremendous satisfaction, "I aim to eat them fish, George Henry." "Bill," I said, "not even you can eat all those fish. I've got a scheme. Save back some of the fish, sure. Let Joy smoke a few even. But take the rest into Murdock tonight and sell them to Hornsby. He used to buy my oysters. He'll buy your fish." "What for?" Bill asked. "Get some bootleg gin," I said. "That makes sense. What else?" "Rats," I said. "I want rats. Buy some traps or get Pete Younger to make some. Not muskrats. Bam rats. As many as you can catch." "Fish," Bill said. "Fish for rats. Boy, the birds has got you." He gave in after a while, more to keep me good natured than for any other reason, that and the gin. He came back with two dozen live, healthy specimens, and watched with an open mouth as I let them loose. T he months passed, and I was worried. To drive the problem from my head, I took the boat out and surveyed the shallow waters off the island. I found something. I found a bed of oysters in broken charts, because you could see it hadn't been worked for a long time. Later, I located clam beds on the marshy side of the island. The damn place was a paradise, or might be, once those birds were cut down, but I couldn't eliminate them by sheer slaughter because of There didn't seem to be many rats around. December came and all the filthy, stinking work with it, and still no rats. Once in a while, eggs would be missing from occupied nests, and that was all. Gulls could have gotten those. We toiled through stinking February, foul March, odiferous April, and evilsmelling May. Still no rats. I sent Bill back to the mainland for more; and by September, rats were everywhere. Bill looked at me from his bunk one night and said, "I hope you're satisfied." I was more than that. I was terrified. They absolutely swarmed. It was impossible to wdk from the barracks to the boat at mid-day without having to kick rats off the path. They consumed most of the non-metallic gear in the boat, including the sail. So far, they hadn't gnawed a way into our barracks store room, or we'd have literally starved to death. "Boys," I said, "just sit tight. Wait till December. These rats are the best friends you ever had. They're going to make this island livable. No more stink and stench." "What," said Bill, "are you going to do with the rats when the birds are gone?" Joy merely moaned. "We'll kill them." "If they don't get us first," Bill said. It was an awesome and bloody slaughter. The fulmars and gannets, most of the gulls, some of the terns, were either wiped out or harried off the island in a single season. And the island became a heaving, moving, revolting mass of rats, and nothing but rats. They attacked us on sight, from sheer hunger. Not a blade of grass grew anywhere on the island, and rats are not grass eaters as an ordinary thing. There was one hopeful sign. They were beginning to eat each other. Day after day we were caged in our barracks. The constant squealing and scratching under the barracks was bad enough. What made us desperate was the fact that they had gnawed a way into the store room and most of the packaged food was gone. We still had some smoked fish hung on the rafters, and a few salted fulmars in the barrel, but that was all. It was then that we remembered the two-way radio, marked "Use in emergency only". Bill said, after weighing all the evidence coolly and carefully, that this here, in his opinion, was an emergency. persuaded them to put me in touch with Carter, Bird Stations Ecologist. I told him we were having a little trouble with the genus Rattus, and would he, for God's sake, do something about it, quick. I can still near him laughing. It was a while before he could speak at all. "Keep them at bay, general. I'll be over early tomorrow morning." I don't believe any men have ever been so happy to see Carter as we were. "They'll balance," he said. "Starvation will do its work. I've brought along a couple of pairs of bam owls. They'll help a lot. I see you read that ecology book. Good job. Station virtually wiped out. I'm sending supplies over in a week's time. Anybody wants to know, you're supposed to be helping extend and restore the tem and gull colonies. Wouldn't be a bad idea to try a few other animal experiments. Milder, though. Smaller scale. Send canvas for a sail too." He was gone before we could answer. The small freighter put in July fifteenth. She had no cargo of processed birds to take back, of course. The captain detailed a few men to unload our supplies, and we helped them eagerly. There were six calves and heifers, two cows and a bull, five pigs, one boar and two sows, several dozen hens and a rooster. Best of all, there was a big case containing seeds : com, barley, oats, seed potatoes, melons, beets, kale, dozens of others. A plow and two draught horses, mare and stallion. Several pounds of rat poison. A hand forge and several tons of coke. Iron. A hundred pounds of linen twine for nets, as well as ropes of all sizes. Canvas. Tools of all kinds. A big medical kit. pered. No richer land, due to the bird droppings, was ever farmed. And the sandier areas could be depended upon for melons and other crops demanding a lighter, drier, and not so rich soil. Not only that, but we were five, now, instead of three. The Jackson boys had lured a couple of husky girls to the island in the boat. The boys claimed the women fell in love with them. I think they fell in love with the island. This fast work on the part of the Jacksons seemed a little rash to me. I was still not at all sure we'd be allowed to remain and enjoy the work we had done. Several times, I was tempted to use the radio again, but decided to wait. I'm glad now I did. In August, a little more than a year after his last visit. Carter set his helicopter down at the wharf again. After lunch in the barracks of baked fish, fresh milk, potatoes, salad, and melons, he pushed back his chair and said, "I suppose you've been wondering." "We'd like to know," I said. He nodded. "The mainland's going to pieces. So is the whole world. It isn't just food. We can still produce that. Remember what you said about the bad roads, bad telephones? You put your finger on it. So much manpower, machinery, energy, material is used up in getting food and processing it and distributing it, there isn't enough for other things. A tenth of the world's population and a quarter of its total power resources go into processing plankton alone. We are literally eating ourselves to death. Utilities and services are breaking down rapidly. No new dwellings of any kind have been built for ten yeairs or more. Oil is short, cement, iron, steel, coal, plastics, wiring, radios, telephones, everything is in short supply and getting shorter. Transport is staggering to a halt." He paused, took off his glasses, and twirled them by one side piece. "Many of us saw it coming. A few decided to do something. We thought there should be undisturbed nuclei, a few able people with ample food supplies. You are one such center. There are others at various bird stations along the coast. You'll be joined shortly by a few more people, young men and women, among them a trained nurse, a doctor, a skilled carpenter, so on." Bill cleared his throat. "What you said, I guess it was all around me, only I never seen it, not to put together. Just one thing. The manager at the Food Plant, he used to stop and kid me about all the fish I'd stole from the government in my time. He was abraggin' better ways of gettin' things done, always newer and better every year. How come they couldn't keep caught up?" "Bill, those new techniques that manager talked about were old stuff a hundred, two hundred years ago. The applications are new, some of them, but the basic ideas are old. "The World Food Institute drew off all the scientific, inventive brains of the world, and put them to chasing food. No time for basic research, basic development; just time for tinkering and retinkering old ideas. Been no new basic idea for a couple of centuries. Too much need for immediate, practical results. The well is dry, and it won't be filled again with a reservoir of new, big ideas, not in our time. Been living off the past; and the present has caught up with us." Before Carter left the island to visit the other stations, I had a chance to have a talk with him. "Was that sociologist, Ranson, in on this?" "No. We had to be careful. Still have to be. Just a few of us. That's why the loss of the bird colonies here had to seem natural, or at least a natural accident. And I had to keep clear of it. You can see that." "Garter, what happens on the mainland when things break up?" "Won't be pretty. Bad. Very bad." "For example?" "You read the ecology book. What happens when a species multiplies beyond its ability to feed itself?" A dozen new Rollins Islanders showed up a few at a time in Carter's helicopter. We've been working and waiting a long time now, waiting for Garter to come back. For over a year now, our boat hzis made no crossing to the mainland. Last night, over twenty-five miles of sea in clear weather, we saw the sky lit by a great fire. I haven't forgotten those rats. I dream about them, tearing one another with bloody fangs.    Defense Department officials predict an intercontinental guided missile, carrying an atomic warhead, that can flash across # miles at speeds up to # miles an hour. The weapon would be able to hit a target area with a radius of about ten miles, be ten times as accurate as a German V-#, have twenty-five times the range. Plans call for at least two varieties of this intercontinental missile: #. A ballistic type that streaks out of the atmosphere like an artillery shell at more than # feet a second. # . A jet-propelled type that flies more slowly, but can be more accurately controlled all the way to the target and will be able to steer itself by the stars. Pointless, balMess writing pens are predicted by researchers working on new writing devices. The one now under development has a conelike tip made of sintered metal -- powdered metal partly welded together. Tiny capillary holes in the tip permit a thick ink to filter through and rub off on the writing surface. The pen will not leak when not in use, nor does it need to be aken or rolled over paper to get it started after disuse. A special feeding system permits all ink to be consumed before another cartridge is needed. The largest saucer-like radio telescope in the United States will soon be under construction at Harvard University's Agassiz Station Observatory. The great "dish", a steerable parabolic antenna sixty feet in diameter, will be used to study and record radio radiation being received on Earth from outer space. Plans also include a large radio astronomy observatory from which radio waves could be bounced off Mars and other planets as well as the sun. Patients who need a blood-vessel transplant will grow and store their own when animal experiments now in progress are eventually applied to humans. Since the body tends to resist foreign tissue, person to person grafts in case of a damaged aorta are often untenable. The latest solution is to cut a vein to the size needed in the patient's own body and fit it over a plastic rod. It is then wrapped in muscle tissue and buried in the thigh muscle where it is nourished for two or three weeks until a firm tube is formed. When the vsel is needed for graft- ing, the thigh is reopened, the plastic rod removed, and the freshly elastic vein hooked into the aorta to replace the defective segment. Future Motorists will drive on highways that will help steer the cars and on which the dips and curves cannot be felt. Highway engineers predict that "pavement geometry" can be used to bank curves so that a blindfolded person riding beside the driver would never know of the change of direction after going around such a curve. During momentary lapses on the part of a motorist, such a highway would be able to "steer" the car until the driver could regain control. Our grandchildren's children will have enough raw materials and energy resources despite gloomy predictions to the contrary. Recent scientific reports indicate that new methods of utilization of minerals, a curbing of waste, discoveries of new deposits and the substitution of common rock and ceramics are enough to quench any long range predictions of a raw material shortage. The harnessing of solar energy through new discoveries in photosynthesis, atomic reactors and the direct generation of electricity in transistor types of photovoltaic cells also promise a supply of energy far in excess of the demand even if coal, gas and petroleum, to which our civilization is now geared, should be exhausted. Science and industry have caught up with fictioneers again. The latest thing in bedding is a gyrating mattress, set into motion by a small motor in the foot of the bed. Designed to overcome insomnia by lulling the bed's occupant to sleep, the "rock-a-by-bed" is the actual development of an idea that science fiction writers have been using as standard equipment in their "homes of the future" for many years. A new profession -- that of criminalist -- may be what all little boys will aspire to be before many more years roll by. Such a criminalist will be a specialist, but not in any one field. He will have to qualify as an expert in identity, evidence of different kinds, from blood groups to ink -- from textiles to metals -- from vegetation to soil. In addition he will be well versed in the understanding of the practical side of crime investigation and legal requirements of courts and evidence. Like a physician, a criminalist will begin training with a broad knowledge of science, on this he must build a study of microscopy, microchemistry, law and any other off-branches concerned. Training will require a minimum of five years of college study which closely parallels that of pre-medical students. Blind persons someday may be able to walk with certainty through unfamiliar territory without the aid of seeing eye dogs or canes. Scientists and researchers have revealed a new electron device to warn blind users of obstacles and potential hazards, such as curbs and lampposts. Carried like a lunch pail, the device shoots out a beam of light that is reflected by such obstacles. The reflected light is then picked up by a built-in optical reception system and a vibrator in the handle translates the reflections into warnings or reassurances for the user. prohibited on Earth for a decade -- yet they listened. The censors, shocked, galvanized, started to act, to cut off the broadcast -- and could not. The powerful music had crept insidiously into their minds, and their fingers were paralyzed above the keys while The Martianne flamed triumphant through the air of Earth. When the final note had died away, Gomel stood up at his piano and said into the microphones: "That is the music of Mars. Remember it, people of Earth." It was a brief trial. Gomel was admittedly guilty of violating the law against inciting the public to military action, but because of Meta's influence and the temper of the people, he was not sentenced to prison. He was deported to Mars, freed to return to his own people. Spurred by the Mars Gorporation, the Earth government acted quickly. The Martianne was the most dangerous of any music the psychosociologists had banned. Its performance was prohibited on pain of death, possession of a tape of it was punishable by fine and imprisonment. But too many tapes had been home-recorded on the night of Gomel's last concert. Too many people remembered the basic strains, the theme of The Mar tianne. Laws could not confine it. It was hummed, at first secretly, then openly and defiantly. And too many people had hung on every televised instant of Gornel's trial and had heard him say, simply and earnestly, why he had violated the laws designed to protect the peace of Earth, why he had "It is right that men should have peace," said Gomel on the witness stand, "but first, it is right that they should have freedom." At first secretly, then openly and defiantly, the Friends of Mars grew into an organization that poured the contributions of the people of Earth into ships and guns for the free people of Mars. Every Martian year they play it formally now, on the anniversary of the signing of the Mars Gharter. In solemn ceremonies, the military band of Mars plays The Martianne before the imposing edifice erected at Gharax by Meta Erosine in memory of Gomel Lorensse, the patriot who died in action during the final seige of Mars Gity.    Hercules. # -- Automation. # -- Faculae. # -- Gommon salt. # -- Astronomical unit. # -- #. # -- Isotopes. #I -- #. # -- Shorter. # -- Protons. # -- # miles. # -- One mile. # -- Helium. # -- Away from. # -- #. Continued from Back Cover when you join the Club Each One Packed from Cover to Cover With the treasury of World-renowned stories that have stood the test of timeby H. G. Wells Jules Verne, Sir Arthur ('onan Doyle. Aldous Huxley, Philip Wylie, KdKar Allan Poe. E. M. Forster, F Scott Fitzgerald, etc. # pages. (Puf)l. ed. #) # top-stories by outstanding authors... stories of Wonders of Earth and Man... of startling inventions... of visitors from Outer Space... of Far Traveling... Adventures in Dimension... Worlds of Tomorrow. # pages. (Publ. ed. #) A story about the first A-Bomb... written before it was invented! story of the movie macliine that shows " newsreels" of any past event. Plus a score of other best tales from a dozen years of Astounding ScienceFiction magazine by its editor, John W. Campbell. Jr. (Publ. ed. ,#) Selected stories from Fantasy and Science-Fiction Magazine. Tlie woman who iiecame her own daughter... atomic power from beans... tlie man that lived # years... gambling on Estrange planet... and many others. Publ. ed. #) #I remarkable and fantastic tales about some of the most aweinspiring, charming and monstrous autliors like Bradbury, Graham Greene, D. H. Lawrence, and others. (Publ. ed. #) A complete short novel, # novelettes and # sliort stories combine to make a truly scalp-tingling volume about the cosmic life of tlie future -- edited by Frederik Polil. Absorbing stories that provide a (.Publ. ed. #) A sparkling crop of weird and wonderful tales selected by expert August Derleth. The man wlio invented a solid vacuum... tlie Martian ship which lands on Earth -- yours for just #! Each is crammed with the science thrills of the (Publ. ed. S.#) future... written by the most sought-after science-fiction authors of today. A # to # value, complete and in handsome permanent bindings. only the finest brand-new full-length a few cents shipping charge) -- even though they cost #, # and up in publishers' editions! Each montli's selection is descrilied IN books you really want -- as few as four a year. bership in this new liook club. To # of the new Science-Fiction anI Hiu;!:. Two are your gift books for joining; the other is your first selection. This liberal offer may have to be withdrawn at any time. Dept. IF#, Garden City, New York OOo Please rush me the # anthologies checked below, as my gift books and first selection. Bill me only I for all three (plus few cents shipping charges), and enroll me as a member of the Science-Fiction Book Club, Every month send me the Club's free bulletin, "Things to Come," so that I may decide whetlier or not I wish to receive the coming selection described therein. P'or each book I accept, I will pay only I plus shipping, I do not have to take a book every month (only four during each year I am a member) -- and I may resign at any time after accepting lour selections. in # days, pay notlilng and this membership will be cancelled!  Assignment in Tomorrow  Children of Wonder  Astounding Science-Fiction  Omnibus of Science-Fiction Anthology  Portals of Tomorrow  Best from Fantasy and  Treasury of Science-Fiction Science-Fiction Classics Name... Address . City Selection price in Canada # plus shipping. Address Science-Fiction Club. # Bond St... Toronto #. (Offer good only in U. S. and Canada.) w m mm UmifScms The Most Generous Offer Ever Made By A # to I # value -- you pay just # for any #! ble, spine-tingling stories crammed between the covers of these anthologies! These volumes contain not only "top-drawer" srience-fiction, but also science acs by outstanding authorities. Handsome, permanent bindings. Any # of them would normally cost you # to # in publishers' original editions -- but all you pay is just # when you join the Club! This generous offer is made to introduce you to derfully new idea in bringing you the best of the new science-fiction books -- at a mere fraction of their usual cost! Take advantage of this offer now -- pick your # anthologies and mail coupon on other  (see front cover and May I # issue) is here shown leaving Moon for return to the space station, which is located outside gravitational pull of the Earth, for more freight. These cargo ships are built entirely on the space station and operate solely on this shuttle route. Navigating in a vacuum, the fins serve only as fuel tanks for control rockets and for landing gear mechanism. Some scientists contend that the sphere is the only practical design for a space ship -- whether to the moon or anywhere else. All Stories New and Complete "Moon Cargo Ships" by Ed Voligursky IF is published bi-monthly by Quinn Publishing Company, Inc. Volume #, No. . Copynt # by Quinn Pumisbing Co., Inc. OflBce of publication, # Ixrd Street, Buffalo, New York. Entered as Second Class Matter at Post Office, Buffalo, New York. Subscription S# for # issues in U.S. and Possessions; Canada # for # issues; elsewhere #. Allow four weeks for change of address. All stories appearing in this magazine are fiction; any similarity to actual persons is coincintal. Not responsible for unsolicited artwork or manuscripts. #c a copy. Printed in U.S.A. Next iuw on sale October # th All learning must begin with a need. And when the tried old ideas won't work for a people -- won't conquer defeat and despair -- a new way of thinking must be found... Illustrated by Paul Orban H ands shook at his shoulder, dragging him awake. Lanny's foster father was bent over him, whispering urgently, "Get up, boy. We have to leave." Groggily Lanny pushed himself into a sitting position. He had been sleeping in his earth burrow beside Gill, outside Juan's cottage. Hazily Lanny remembered being carried home from the canyon after the explosion, but he could recall nothing else. It was an hour before dawn. Gill was dressing ; his shoulder was wrapped in a homespun bandage. Lanny got up, staggering a little, and helped his brother put on his leather jacket and his weapon belt. "Thanks, Lan," his brother said. Lanny touched the bandage. "Shouldn't you heal the cells. Gill?" "I have to expose it to the sim first. I didn't catch it soon enough last night, and too many germs infested the wound." To their foster father. Gill added, "I still think you should leave me here. I may not -- " "You're both my responsibility," Juan Pendillo ainswered. "We'll survive together. Gill, or die together." "What happened?" Lanny asked as he pulled on his breeches and pushed his stone knife and his wooden club through the loops of his weapon belt. Silently Juan pointed toward the dawn sky. High above them Lanny heard the whine of a score of enemy police spheres. "They insist on the surrender of all eight hunters who went out last night." Gill said, "But Tak Laleen killed Barlow with her energy gun. Why are they blaming us?" "Barlow was working for them as a spy," Lanny put in. It was a convenient explanation, but vaguely he knew he was lying. He felt a pang of guilt, but he couldn't understand why. What had he done that he should be ashamed of? What had happened last night? Lanny wracked his brain, trying to remember. Eight hunters had been sent out to bring in a cache of rifles which Lanny's brother. Gill, had found in the rubble of Santa Barbara. It was risky business, because under the terms of the surrender treaty men were prohibited the use of all metals in the prison compounds. But the younger generation -- boys like Lanny and Gill, born since the invasion -- were more fiercely determined to resist the Almost-men than their elders. Armed with fifty rifles, they thought they would be strong enough to attack the Chapel of the Triangle. The Almost-men : the children had coined the word, subtly asserting the pride of man. Yet they knew it was a semantic trick they played upon themselves. It changed nothing. The conquerors were physically identical to men; their enormous superiority was entirely technological. As the eight hunters crept toward the ruins of Santa Barbara, through a narrow canyon, old man Barlow suddenly emerged from the brush and stood grinning at them. It was his privilege to join the hunters; any citizen of the settlement could have done so. But the younger generation hated Barlow. He was the practical man; he called himself a realist. He never allowed them to forget they were defeated, imprisoned and without weapons; he took savage delight in poking holes in their plans for resistance. "What are you doing here?" Lanny's brother demanded. "I came to watch the fun, Gill." "We're going to bring back fifty rifles; that's all -- " "Right under the noses of our masters? Don't be naive." "There's only one way the Almost-men would find out -- " Barlow snorted. "Don't think I ran to the Ghapel of the Triangle and told Tak Laleen what you were up to. They don't need that sort of help from us. When are you going to get it through that thick skull of yours? We're outclassed; we're second-raters; we'll never defeat them." From the night sky they heard the low hum of a force-field car. An opalescent sphere soared above the canyon. Gill's fist smadied into Barlow's jaw. "So you did tell her!" Barlow fell back against the canyon wall, his mouth bleeding. The sphere came to a graceful stop thii feet above the hunters and the de-grav platform lowered a woman toward the canyon. Surrounded by the faintly opaque capsule of her protective force-field, she moved toward them, a beautiful, dark-haired woman clothed in white. This was Tak Laleen, the alien missionary assigned to the Santa Barbara area. She lived in the Chapel of the Triangle. Under the terms of the surrender treaty, the missionaries of the Almost-men were guaranteed immunity to preach and work in the treaty areas. They were selfless, generous and kind, yet men abhorred them, for they represented the tangible power of the conqueror. Tak Laleen glided toward the hunters, forming the alien's triangular sign of peace with her small, white fingers. "I come in peace, in the name of the All of the Universe." "We haven't violated any regulation," Gill snapped stiffly. Barlow sidled toward her. "Take me back to the Triangle," he begged. "I'll tell you -- " Gill's fist lashed out again; Barlow reeled under the blow. "We're a legally elected punishment squad," Gill lied. "This man has broken a community law." "You don't understand!" Barlow cried desperately. "They came to get -- " The others hunters fell on him, pummeling him into silence. The violence sickened Lanny, yet what alternative did they have? Lanny raised his club. At the same time the missionary came closer to the mob, and his club touched her forced-field capsule. Normally the energy would have paralyzed him with pain. But his mind refused to accept the normal, and Lanny felt the same sort of integrated umty with the energy field that he had with his hunting club. Command over the matter structure of the field. The energy flowed into lus body and was absorbed, stored in an explosive concentration of power. For a moment the opaque capsule dimmed. Tak Laleen clenched her hand over her mouth and fled into her sphere. The car soared up above the canyon. Lanny swung his club again. Since Barlow must die, let him die quickly, without pain. Murder! -- the accusation was a pang of agony in Lanny's mind. This violated everything Juan had taught him. He was aware that he wanted Barlow's death not because the old man had tried to betray the hunters, but because Lanny could not answer Barlow's poisonous despair in any other way. Lanny was ashamed. But who would know his real motive if he killed Barlow now? Who -- but himself? Lanny's club touched Barlow's chest. He felt a drain of energy, a disintegration of structure. The energy Lanny had absorbed from missionary's force-field exploded in a fierce, white heat. Barlow crumbled into dust. Lanny's awareness of what he had done survived for a fraction of a second. He stood facing the exploding light and waves of concussion lashed at his body. A dark chaos, whipped into fury by a floodtide of guilt, rocked his mind. He willed himself into unconsciousness, a bleak forgetfulness that sponged the guilt -- and the truth -- from his mind. And now he remembered nothing but the explosion and the queasy shadow of self-accusation. "The settlement," Juan Pendillo said to his sons, "is required to surrender the hunters at dawn. That gives us forty-five minutes. We're all heading for different treaty areas. We are to go to the San Francisco colony." T he three men slid along the street, clinging to the shadows. Twice they passed other hunters in flight, but no one spoke, for the enemy sound detectors on iht Chapel of the Triangle were sensitive enough to pick up a whisper at a distance of half a mile. Lanny and Gill discarded their moccasins, in order to be more sure of their footing. The moccasins were useless except as symbols of status. Juan Pendillo qualified to give the extra skins to his sons, since before the invasion he had been a Doctor of Philosophy, and the teachers had become the governing force in every treaty area. For two hours Pendillo and his foster sons walked north. Occasionally they saw enemy spheres overhead, but the ships never came closer. After they reached the coast, the pounding surf formed a protective sound barrier when they talked. "How far is the San Francisco treaty area?" Gill asked. "Three hundred miles, more or less," Pendillo replied. "How many days?" Lanny inquired. His father, like all the older survivors in the settlement, always spoke of distance in terms of miles -- a word that was meaningless to the new generation. Pendillo laughed, with gentle bitterness. "Once, Lanny, we might have made it by car in eight hours. Now? -- I don't know. The couriers sometimes do it in a week, when the weather is good. It will take us longer. I won't be able -- " He cut himself short. "It's funny, isn't it? In the old days I used to gripe about the traffic; right now I'd give ten years of my life to see a Model-T again." Gill ground his naked heel into the sand. "The Almost-men took everything from us. But we're not licked. One of these days we'll be strong enough -- " "As strong as their machines?" Lanny asked. Gill swung toward his brother angrily. "That's Barlow's kind of talk, Lan." "The weapons and die machines of the Almost-men," Pendillo said, "are more powerful than anything we ever had. Yet we must defeat them; we must make ourselves free again. And we shall; I have no doubt of it. Granted, we have no weapons like theirs, and no chance of building any. We still don't resign ourselves to defeat. The techniques we used in the past failed; then we must find new ones. How? I don't know. That's the problem our generation leaves to yours. Men live by their dreams; without them we are nothing." The three men continued to move north along the beach until they came to the barrier that marked the northern boundary of the Santa Barbara treaty area. The barrier was a series of widely separated pylons marching across the land. Each pylon served as a pedestal for one of the enemy's highly sensitive sound receptors and an automatic energy gun. Any sound detected within seventy feet of the border became instantly the focal point for a stabbing beam of disintegration. Yet men crossed the barriers at will. Couriers traveled freely from one treaty area to another, and hunters crossed the border because the animal life in enemy territory was more prolific. They had two methods for passing the pylon guns. Sometimes they swam to sea, circling the barrier beyond the range of the sea-coast receptors. The second technique, used by the inland hunters, was to confuse the listening machines. The hunters would hurl half a dozen stones into the barrier area. While the energy guns obediently disposed of the rolling rocks, the hunters sprinted across the forbidden ground before the guns could concentrate upon the second target. Both Lanny and Gill preferred to run the guns. They enjoyed the risk of defying the enemy machines. But Dr. Pendillo shook his head. It meant sprinting a distance of a hundred yards in less than nine seconds -- the time it took the guns to reorient their target. "Before the invasion," Pendillo explained, "the fastest man on Earth ran a hundred meters in a little over ten seconds. You boys are a new breed. You've been forced to adapt; I'm too old." Pendillo's eyes were suddenly serious. "Adaptation," he repeated. "The possibilities are infinite for a man who is free from convention, free from the inherited ideas of his past. That is the way we shall defeat the Almostmen. The human mind has an unmeasured capacity for solving problems -- for pulling itself up by its bootstraps -- so long as hope for a solution remains alive." They passed the barrier by swimming a quarter of a mile to sea. They rested briefly when they returned to the beach. Then they resumed their march north again, through territory ceded to the enemy. They stayed close to the beach, imtil their passage was barred by an increasmgly rocky coastline. Since they had seen no enemy police spheres since they left the treaty area, Pendillo thought it was safe for them to use the highway which paralleled the beach. After nearly twenty years, the ribbon of asphalt was still in good repair. Occasional cracks had broken the paving. Grass and weeds choked the crevices and some culverts had been washed out by spring rains. The primary change was environmental, but only Juan Pendillo was aware of that, for his sons took for granted the young forests diat crowded every hillside and the abundant wild game. With no more than a ten minute intemiption in their march northward, Lanny and Gill ran down a rabbit skillfully hurled stones -- the traditional weapons of the hunters. They cleaned the kill and strapped it to their weapon belts. Late in the afternoon they entered Santa Maria. The town had not been large, but it was the first relic of their defeated culture that Lanny and Gill had ever seen. Sometimes, when their hunting took them south, they saw the site of Los Angeles, but that told them nothing about the past, for it was a flat desert scrubbed clean of rubble to make room for an enemy skyport. Santa Maria had survived the invasion, since it was too isolated from the major centers of population to have been a target of die enemy guns. Lanny and Gill stood in the empty main street and looked with awe at the deserted stores. Some of the buildings were made of brick; some were actually two and three floors high. This must, surely, have been a great city of the old world. They had no point of reference but the monotonously identical houses of the subdivision which had become their treaty colony. Here the buildings were all different and by that fact alone they seemed beautiful. Lanny and Gill stopped at each store window, to stare in wonder at the goods still on the shelves. In an automobile agency, a solitary sedan still stood, on deflated and frayed tires, in the center of the showroom floor. Here at last was visible proof that men had once built a machine technology. The automobile was as big and as shiny, beneath its generation of dust, as any of the spheres of the Almost-men. "Were they all like that?" Lanny asked in an awed whisper. "Fundamentally, yes," Pendillo said. "And they moved over the roads faster than a deer!" Gill's eyes glistened. "But where are the weapons, father?" "Our cars weren't armed, Gill; we used them for pleasure. But don't get me wrong. We had guns -- vicious and terrible things; we were no more civilized than the Almost-men. Our weapons just weren't the equal of theirs, so our civilization was destroyed." "You're saying the Almost-men are better -- " "No, Gill. The Almost-men are mirror images of ourselves -- man at his worst. That's why we understand each other so thoroughly," Pendillo paused before he added, "And that's why we can't destroy them on their terms ; we must make our own." They pushed open the door of the agency and went into the showroom. Hesitantly, like children with new Christmas toys, they ran their fingers over the dusty hood of the sedan. Lanny felt a strange, electric empathy as he touched the cold metal, as if it were a familiar part of himself. For a moment he saw in his mind the geometric structure of the alloy atoms, just as he could visualize Ae more complex cell make-up of his own body. Judging from the expression on Gill's face, he guessed that his brother had perceived the same relationship. "And the Almost-men took all this from us," Gill said in a choked voice. "Why, Juan?" "In our wars among ourselves, we always had the same motivation. They came here for resources. Every skyport they have built on Earth continuously ships out tons of metal and chemicals -- oil, coal, ores. On their home world the Almost-men have exhausted their own resources; they must have ours to keep their mechanistic civilization going." Juan opened a door at the rear of the showroom into a large, cement-floored garage. Except for three automobiles, abandoned twenty years before in various stages of repair, the room was empty. "We can spend the night here," Pendillo decided. Lanny and Gill pried open the door at the back of the garage. Behind the building tangled shrubs and live oaks choked the half-mile shelf of land that separated Santa Maria from the coast. They found a ready supply of dry firewood under the trees. It was dusk. The setting sun was veiled in a mist. Fingers of fog reached hungrily for the warm earth, driven inland by the wind. Lanny and Gill would have been more comfortable outside. They were accustomed to the chilly night air. They could have burrowed sleeping troughs in the soil and restored their strength with earth energy. It had always puzzled them that the older survivors, like Juan, could not do the same. Pendillo's generation made very poor hunters, too, often dying of a wheezing sickness if they spent many nights on the trail. Pendillo's sons carried wood into the garage, where Juan sat shivering on a wooden bench with his rabbit-skin jacket hunched around his shoulders. Lanny and Gill stripped off their jerkins and gave them to their father. Pendillo's sons were naked, then, except for their short, crudely cut breeches and their leather weapon belts. And only the belts, which held their stone knives and their clubs, would either of them have considered essential. The rest was superficial, a mark of status. In a general way Lanny and Gill were physically alike -- sturdy, bronzed giants, like all the children who had survived in the treaty areas. They were both nineteen, or perhaps a little older. Dr. Pendillo had found them abandoned as he fled the final enemy attack. Gill's hair was yellow and a pale beard was beginning to grow on his chin. Danny's black hair curled in a tight, matted mane ; his beard was heavy, already covering much of his face and giving him a sinister, derelict appearance. Since metal was forbidden in the prison compounds, no man was clean-shaven. After a fashion they did occasionally trim their hair, with treasured slivers of glass which foraging hunters brought back from the ruined cities. Lanny and Gill made fire in a rusted waste can. Pendillo watched them with admiration. That was another shortcoming in the older survivors that puzzled Lanny: they were very clumsy about producing Are, and almost none of diem could hurl a stone accurately enough to kill an animal. Yet both skills, so essential to the hunters, had been taught the children by Aeir elders. On an improvised wooden spit Pendillo's sons roasted the pheasant and the rabbit which they had killed that afternoon. The three men ate hungrily, Pendillo with a fastidiousness that secretly amused the bronzed giants who sat crosslegged beside him. Dr. Pendillo tore the meat daintly from the bones with his fingers; at intervals he wiped the grease from his lip with a comer of his jacket. Pendillo built a bed for himself from a pile of dry, rotting rags close to the fire. Lanny restoked the can with fresh wood so his father might be warm during the night. Then Pendillo's sons spread dieir skins close to the open door, where they felt more at ease. Almost at once Lanny was asleep. It was an instinctive process of will. He ordered his body to rest, and it responded; just as he could be instantly awake and alert at any energy change that indicated danger. He had never examined the process consciously, and he considered it in no way unusual; but he might have recalled, if he had pressed his memory back into his earliest childhood, that it was part of a pattern Pendillo had taught his sons. There was a sputter of soimd. Lanny leap to his feet, his hand closing on his stone knife. He heard a ro of clanging metal in the automobile showroom. Then silence. Lanny sprang through the open door. Dimly he saw Gill sitting in the sedan, his hands gripping the wheel. "What happened?" "It started, Lanny. I just came in to look at it, to touch it again, and -- " "So you made the motor turn over?" This came from Dr. Pendillo, who was feeling his way through the door behind Lanny. "How, Gill?" Gill slid out of the car, backing away from it. 'T don't know. I don't know!" "You must. Gill." "I got in. I was -- I was pretending it was before the invasion and I was driving the machine down the road. I could see the matter structure of the motor in my mind, and how the parts fit together. I must have touched the starter." "After twenty years, the battery would be dead and the fuel would have evaporated. Tell me what you really did. Gill." Gill clenched his fist against his mouth. "It seemed as if it were a part of me, like my hand. And then the machinery began to move, because -- because I wanted it to. Maybe there was some fuel left, father, and maybe -- "Why are you afraid of the truth. Gill?" "People don't run machines by wanting them to go!" "The thinking mind, my son, is capable of -- " Pendillo's voice trailed off, for they all heard the sound outside -- the high whine made by the force-field of an enemy sphere. Lanny darted to the showroom window. At the end of the street an opalescent sphere was riding in the fog, three feet above the ground. Enemy police guards in protective capsules spilled through the open port, carrying energy guns slimg over their shoulders. "The Almost-men picked up the sound of the motor," Pendillo gasped. Then he saw the woman in the white uniform of the Triangle. She stood at the port, spotlighted by the glow of blue light that came from within the ship. It was the missionary, Tak Laleen. gan to dart back and forth over the empty buildings, responding to the commands of the sound receptors. Lanny and Gill seized their father and plunged into the choking darkness of the forest. Dead brush snapped. The tracer light swimg toward the trees, concentrating with smug, mechanical selfassurance upon the place where the three men had been. Lying flat against the cold earth, they wormed their way foot by foot toward the coast. Behind them they saw the forcefield capsules of six enemy guards floating above the trees. Strong tracer lights danced over the upper branches, but the foliage was too dense for the light to penetrate to the ground. In their glowing bubbles the enemy police swimg back and forth, trying to find a clearing in the brush. Two of them attempted to force their way into the trees but their body capsules were too bulky; the force-field generated by the individual envelopes was not powerful enough to push through the gnarled branches. The three fugitives inched steadily forward. The glow of tracer lights faded behind them. They could hear the wind above the trees and, far away, the sound of surf breaking on the rocks. Juan Pendillo was shivering in the cold. His teeth began to chatter. Hastily his sons pressed his body between theirs, shielding him from the cold and sharing their body energy until his trembling finally stopped. They heard a snapping sound in the brush. An enemy guard appeared suddenly. He had dissolved his force-field and he was walking warily on the wet earth. He held an energy gun cradled in his arms. The enemy walked with cat-like caution -- but, in spite of himself, it was the amateur caution of a man who relied on the protective devices of a machine. Slowly Lanny's lips twisted in a sneer. This was the enemy, heavily armed and invulnerable -- but helpless without his mechanical gadgets. Lanny's hand moved soundlessly over the ground. He grasped a stone. The enemy was less than twenty feet away; it was a target a child couldn't miss. Lanny swung into a sitting position and simultaneously threw his stone. The guard dropped, a wound tom in his skull. Pendillo and his sons slid forward again. As they passed the dead Almost-man, Lanny worked the energy gun out of of the guard's hands. It took them an hour to reach the cliflFs overlooking the sea. They turned north again, seeking shelter among the rocks. And they came abruptly upon a wide, bowl-shaped cavity in the earth. Through the fog they saw the narrow passage between the cavity and the sea. In the center of the sheltered, artificial pool a metal dome rose some fifty feet above the quiet water. The dome, protected by a forcefield, was joined to the land by a catwalk. From its waterline a ridged, white tube snaked upward and disappeared among the trees on the north bank of the pool. A repair barge swung at anchor under the catwalk. A towering pylon raised a sound receptor and an automatic energy gun high above the roof of the dome. Pendillo whispered, "Tliis must be one of their automatic mining operations. I've never seen one before." Gill replied, "Lanny and I have come upon lots of them in the hills. The domes run themselves. Sometimes the Almost-men come and check over the machines; that's what the barge is here for, I think." "The domes dig out minerals or pump oil," Lanny added, "and send it to the skyports through the white pipes. But you can never get close to them. The whole operation i protected by the energy guns." "They have us pinned down here," Gill said, "unless we can use that barge." Lanny fingered the energy gim he had taken from the dead guard. "All we have to do is knock out the pylon." He raised the weapon and aimed it at the nest of delicate instruments at the base of the pillar. He turned the firing dial. The Same knifed through the fog. The tower disintegrated in a blaze of dust. The three men slid down the rock d plunged through the cold water toward the barge. In the night sky they heard the whine of an approaching force-held car. They leaped aboard the barge, hauling Dr. Pendillo in after them. Gill knelt in front of the motor in the stern. Lanny watched the sky, with the energy gun clutched in his hand. He knew the charge in the chamber was nearly spent. There might be enough left to hold off the enemy for a moment, but certainly no longer. Frantically Gill turned the wheels until the motor stirred into life. As it did the glowing sphere swung down upon them. Lanny raised his gun and Sred. Fear projected something of himself into the leaping charge of energy -- a confusing sensation of screaming joy and chaotic horror that left his mind limp and numb. It seemed that he had actually touched the force-Seld of the sphere; he was physically tearing apart the tense, strait-jacket of solidified energy. The sphere lurched upward and away into the night. As it did, the port broke open and a figure dropped toward the water. It was Tak Laleen. She reached for the tiny box fastened to her breast, trying to activate her protective forcefield capsule. Lanny knew he had to stop her, or she might still be able to prevent their escape. He sprang into the water, clawing for her feet as she fell toward him. She screamed and her screams died as he dragged her beneath the surface. He tore the box from her hands and let it fall. When they broke the surface, his hands were on her throat and all his lifelong hatred of the Almostmen was in his finger tips as he pressed his thumbs down upon her windpipe. Pendillo cried out, "Don't kill her, Lanny! No man has ever taken one of the enemy alive." Reluctantly Lanny relaxed # grip. Tak Laleen screamed again and slapped her hands at his face. Abrubtly she paused and stared into his eyes. "You!" she gasped. "The black savage. No wonder my sphere -- In the name of the All of the Universe, kill me quickly! Kill me now, as civilized beings have a right to die -- not your way. Not your way!" Then, for no reason Lanny could fathom, Tak Laleen fainted. the darkness, the stolen barge moved rapidly north along the coast. Tak Laleen lay unconscious in the bottom of the boat, wrapped in her white uniform; Pendillo sat shivering beside her. Lanny and Gill stood in the stem. Although the motor was controlled by an automatic navigator. Gill tore out the flimsy destination tape and guided the wheel manually. "Even this the Almost-men can't do for themselves," he remarked to his brother. "Do you suppose they really can't read direction from the sun or the stars?" "All their brains are in their. machines." "And machines are nothing." "Juan has always said that," Gill said slowly. "It sounds logical and reasonable. But I don't know what it means, Lanny!" For a long time they stood watching the heaving shadow of the sea, each of them trying in his own way to make sense of the riddle. Suddenly the motor sputtered. Gill tinkered with the machine until it was purring smoothly again. "The power cells are nearly empty," he said. "We'll have to run the barge aground sometime tomorrow and start walking again." "Yes, I know." Lanny clenched his fist over his brother's arm. "But how do we know it, Gill? How can we run this machine, when we have never seen it before?" Gill laughed uneasily. "Don't forget, before the invasion our people were pretty good at building machines, too." "That doesn't answer the question, Gill. When I fired the energy gun, I felt as if it were a part of myself -- as if I knew all the cells in the metal just as I know my own." "That happened to me when I sat in the automobile in the showroom." "It scares me, Gill. I keep thinking I should remember something but -- "I was scared last night, too, because I thought I'd made die motor go by forcing it to move with my mind. And that's absurd. If we had that much control over machines. as we do over our himting clubs, how could the enemy ever have defeated us?" Tak Laleen opened her eyes, then, and sat up stiffly. The wind struck her face and swept her hah back. Shivering, she pulled her uniform tight around her throat. "Where are you taking me?" she demanded. "You're our prisoner," Lanny answered. "The Sacred Triangle will not pay ransom we volunteered to serve here on the earth; we knew the risks." Lanny moved toward her. Fearfully she slid away from him until her back was against the gunwale. "Don't touch me!" she begged. He shrugged and dropped on the deck close to her feet. "When you came out of the Traingle to take care of our sick, you never were repulsed by -- "Not the normal ones, no." "Your aversion applies only to me?" "Don't pretend." She twisted her hands together. "What kind of a -- a thing are you?" Juan Pendillo intervened, "We dragged you aboard rather unceremoniously, Tak Laleen. Let me introduce my sons, Lanny and Gill." "You're lying. Where did you get the metals to make him?" Lanny stared at his father. "Is she -- has her mind been affected -- " "All this beating around the bush is so foolish." Suddenly she seized Lanny's arm and dug her nails, like claws, into his skin. "But -- but it is real! You're not a machine." Her eyes glazed and she fainted again. By dawn the motor of the barge was missing continuously and the speed had been reduced to a relatively slow forty knots. The sun rose, dispelling the fog, and the wind on the sea became a little warmer. Juan Pendillo tried to pace the tiny deck, flaying his arms to restore the circulation. Tak Laleen, having recovered from her second faint, sat brooding with her uniform clutched tightly over her throat. Periodically the missionary talked to Pendillo. She asked again and again what they were going to do with her. Either ransom or murder were the only possibilities that occurred to her. That point of view was a fair index to the attitude the Almost-men held toward the survivors on the planet they had conquered. Manlund they considered primitive squalor of the prison compounds was their proof. Lanny understood enough of the religion of the Triangle -- that noble abstract of God which the enemy called the All of the Universe -- to know why the conquerors had to use a semantic device to define their superiority. The Almost-men were a liberty-loving society. Their government decrees and their religious poetry abounded with vivid words of freedom. They could not have maintained an integrated social soul and enslaved a culture of their peers; therefore, they had to invent a verbal technique for reducing man to the status of a savage. "As we have always done ourselves," Pendillo told Lanny when he first became aware of the inconsistency as a child. "But don't condemn the enemy for it, my son. Words have the peculiar habit of becoming anything we want them to be. If we set our minds to it, we can make anything true. The Almost-men are not merely alien invaders; they are like man himself -- the most tragic distortion of our worst traits. Someday we shall make war on them, yes, but before we do we must learn how to conquer ourselves." Early in the afternoon the power cells in the barge were exhausted. Gill drove the ship up on a desolate beach, at the place where Monterey had once stood. Nothing survived but an occasional piece of debris, buried in the drifted sand, for Monterey, close to a military camp, had been heavily bombed by the invaders. "We must find a place to camp," Pendillo advised. "I don't believe either Tak Laleen or I have the strength to go any farther today." They found it necessary to hike eight miles north of Monterey before they were beyond the area of total destruction. The ruins, scattered among the encroaching trees, became recognizable as skeletal relics of things that might once have been homes. They found one frame cottage still whole because it had been built close to a hillside. The battered walls would provide shelter for Pendillo and the missionary. Further, the house had a stone fireplace where they could cook their food, and close by a shallow spring bubbled from the dark earth. Gill and Lanny trapped a deer and carried the carcass back to the cottage. Both Tak Laleen and Pendillo were struggling to make a fire. Lanny took over the chore and in seconds flames leaped through the dead brush heaped on the hearth. It had always puzzled him that Pendillo could have taught him the techniques, and still not be able to make the fire himself. Tak Laleen was just as helpless. Without their machines the Almost-men were nothing: again and again that became apparent. Gill stripped off the deer hide carefully so it could be made into a second jacket for Pendillo. While he stretched the skin the afternoon sun, Lanny turned the meat over the fire. When they began to eat, both Lanny and Gill were amused that Tak Laleen had manners as fastidious as Pendillo's. The missionary nibbled delicately at her food, as if she thought the grease would soil her lips. Afterward she and Pendillo washed in water which they heated over the fire. Pendillo's sons stripped and swam in the ocean, as a man properly should to make himself clean. They made beds for their father and the missionary in front of the fire. Lanny and his brother would march north until nightfall; the food had restored their balance of energy, as it always did. But they knew the other two had to rest. Lanny and Gill dug burrows in the warm sand outside the cottage, where they felt more comfortable. They were consciously an integrated part of their world, nurtured by the earth and the sun. To them it seemed absurd to build walls of wood or stone to separate themselves from a part of their own being. None of younger generation had ever understood the need of their elders for artificial shelter. That feeling, too, was a product of of their education, though neither they nor their teachers grasped what it implied. The children of the prison camps lived in a new universe, not yet defined. Lanny and Gill were immediately asleep. It did not occur to them that Tak Laleen might try to escape. They assumed she had read the signs of the plentiful game in the forest: they were a long way from any enemy installation. Yet four hours later they were jerked awake by the sound of her screams, faint and terrified in the night shadows of the forest. They found her a thousand yards from the cottage. Her back was against a wall of boulders and with her frail, white hands she was trying to beat off a snarling cougar which had already clawed her imiform to shreds. L anny drew his knife and I leaped at the animal. Gill threw a stone which might have broken the skull with bullet force, but at that moment the cougar whirled toward them. Its claw slashed at Lanny. He bent low, driving his knife upward. Momentum carried the big cat forward. As the tearing fiuy struck his chest, Lanny plunged his knife again into the thick hide. The cougar fell, writhing and howling. Gill smashed a broken tree limb into the yawning jaws, and the big cat died. Tak Laleen ' # stumbled toward them. She tried to speak. The words of gratitude choked in her throat and she fainted. Again! Lanny thought, with disgust. The Almost-men -- or at least their missionary women -- had a limited gamut of emotional reactions. It seemed an inadequate way to solve a problem. They left Tak Laleen where she lay. Gill expertly stripped off the skin of the animal they had killed, another hide they could fashion into a jacket for Juan Pendillo. Lanny had been superficially wounded -- a long, shallow scratch across his chest. He examined it carefully, feeling through the severed body cells with his mind and directing the blood purifiers to seal off the few germ colonies which were present. When the skin seemed to require no healing exposure to the sun, he allowed the scratch to heal at once. Gill shouldered the cougar hide, still warm and dripping blood. Lanny picked up the missionary and they returned to the cottage. Tak Laleen's uniform was tom and useless, but the material was a tough plastic which had protected her from any serious wound. Her chest and arms were criss-crossed with scores of tiny abrasions. It puzzled Lanny that she had made no eflfort to repair her body. It occured to him, with something of a shock, that the Almost-men might use machines to do that, too. Tak Laleen regained consciousness when Lanny put her on the bed in front of the fire. Pendillo tore off her battered uniform and bathed the scratches with hot water. "You saved me; you risked your own life!" She said it with a peculiar fervor. Lanny couldn't understand why she thought an element of risk had been involved. A hunter with half his skill and experience could have done as much. "I won't try to run away again," she promised. Not much of a concession, Lanny thought, suppressing a grin. Pendillo said they would have to spend the next day in the cottage, to give the missionary a chance to rest. She was suffering, he said, from something he called shock. Precisely what that was neither of his sons knew, but they supposed it was an obscure ailment that beset the enemy. The more they learned about Tak Laleen, the stranger it seemed that such a weak people could have conquered the earth. During the interval of waiting, Lanny and Gill dried the two hides they had taken. They cut breeches and a jacket for Tak Laleen, to replace the uniform she could no longer wear. After they resumed their trek north, it took them four days more to reach the pylon barrier south of the San Francisco treaty area. Tak Laleen became more and more exhausted. She shivered constantly in the cold air. Her nose began to run -- a phenomenon Pendillo called a cold -- and the wounds in her chest stubbornly refused to heal. When she saw the towered guns on the barrier, she dropped to the ground and wept hysterically. "We can't pass that," she whispered. "If you're afraid to run the guns," Lanny told her, "we can swim around them." "I don't know how." "There's no other way into the treaty area," Gill said brutally. She sniffled. "If I could just feel warm again -- if you would build a fire and give me a chance to rest -- "Not until we're inside the barrier. The police would spot a fire out here." Gill picked her up and began to carry her toward the beach. She screamed in terror and beat her fists against his naked back. When he did not stop, she cried out, "I can tell you how to break the circuit on the pylons!" Gill paused. "Yes?" "If we could knock out just one of the guns, we could walk through the barrier, couldn't we?" Gill set her on her feet. She ran back to Lanny, stumbling over the rough ground and wiping her nose with the back of her hand. "Lanny, you and your brother can hit anything with a stone. Couldn't you knock out the power unit in a pylon?" "Sure, if we knew where it was. We've tried for years to find that out, but we can't get close enough to examine the towers." She pointed eagerly. "It's the criss-crossed framework, just under the sound receptor at the top." He measured the distance critically. "It will take careful marksmanship to hit anything so small. Think we could do it. Gill?" "We'll have to try; the lady's afraid to get her feet wet." Gill threw the first stone. It fell short of the target. The automatic energy guns swimg on the stone, efficiently disintegrating it before it touched the ground. Lanny tried; and his brother threw again. It was Lanns fourth missile that struck the tiny mechanism. A puff of smoke fffled the air and the top of the pylon became a mass of twisted, metal girders. Lanny grinned at the missionary. She was a fool, he thought; for the sake of her own comfort, she had given away one of the most valuable secrets in the arsenal of enemy weapons. When the treaty areas knew it, the barriers would go down; men would be free when they chose. And Tak Laleen was so grateful to have escaped a cold swim in the sea, she seemed unaware of the extent of her betrayal. They walked across the barren ground. The missionary clung with feverish hands to Lanns arm. Half a mile beyond the barrier, they ascended a steep hill. From the crest they looked down upon the peninsula and the sprawling arms of the bay in the background. Except for the jumbled ruins of downtown San Francisco, at the point of the peninsula, the land from the ocean to the bay was crowded with closely packed rows of dwellings. Some were flat-roofed, whitewalled houses similar to the subdivision settlement where Lanny and Gill grew up. Others, built since the surrender, were ugly hovels made from clay and grass. The San Francisco treaty area was the largest on Earth, perhaps because it was the city where the invasion had begun. Lanny had airways known it was big, but he was awed to see so many men, so many of his own kind, assembled in one place. Across the bay, on a flat, white plain where Oakland had once stood, was the crowded, multi-tiered skyport of the enemy. From all the surrounding hills the pliable, white tubes poured an endless stream of resources into the port. Automatic machines, working ceaselessly day and night, loaded the plunder into machine-navigated, pilotless spheres; at five minute intervals an endless parade of spheres lifted from the field beyond the skyport and headed toward the stars, while a second parade of empties came in for a landing. From a distance the skyport, under its opalescent dome of a force-field, looked like an enormous spider with its sprawling, white tentacles clutching the green earth. The San Francisco skyport was the largest the enemy had built, and the seat of the territorial government they had set up to rule the captive planet. Grotesque relics of man's bridges still spanned the bay and the Golden Gate; columns of rusted steel held up the graceful loops of a single, rusted cable. An enemy bridge, like a fairy highway supported by nearly invisible balloons of de-grav spheres, joined the skyport and the treaty area. As the three men and their captive descended the hillside, they were stopped by four nearly naked youths who mounted guard on the southern fringe of the settlement. Though still boys in their teens, they were physical giants like Lanny and Gill. Pendillo told the boys why they had fled from the Santa Barbara settlement; he asked to be taken to the home of Dr. Endhart. "Our chief teacher?" "Dr. Endhart and I are old friends. We knew each other before the invasion." One of the boys clapped Lanny on the back. "So you brought your woman with you; they must be snappy lookers down your way." Tak Laleen shrank against Lanny's side, holding his hand in terror, "Not much for size, though," the boy added critically. "How much do you weigh, girl?" The boy put his arm around the missionary's shoulder. She gave a squeal of fear and, in her eagerness to shrink still closer to Lanny, she forgot to hold her crudely cut jacket closed across her breast. The hide fell free. The boy saw her white, scratched shoulder and her thin, frail arm. He whistled. "So you caught one of the Almost-men. A missionary? I never saw one without the uniform. Let's see the rest of it." He snatched the jacket from Tak Laleen. She gave another wail and fainted. Lanny sighed and picked her up. "She has a habit of doing this," he explained wearily. "She hasn't pulled one for nearly four days; I guess this was overdue." The boy inspected her with a sneer. "Scrawny, aren't they?" "Take away their machines," Lanny replied, "and this is all you have left." I an easy adjustment to the new community. The social stratification was an uncomplicated division of men into three types: the teachers, the old ones who had survived the invasion, and the children who had grown up since the war -- by far the largest group. The classification was logical and unobtrusive; it produced no frustrating social pressures. Since the children had known no other form of society, they assumed that men had always organized their culture with such understandable simplicity. The chief occupation of the community was always the education of the young. That, too, Lanny and Gill assumed to be the normal activity of man. The teachers were the real government of every treaty area.Their control was subtle, engineered through an unofficial -- and illegal -- representative body, usually called the resistance council. Since Pendillo had been a teacher in his home settlement, he took up residence with Dr. Endhart. They kept Tak Laleen with them, a prisoner confined to the house. For nearly a week she lay on a pallet suffering the miseries of a cold. Lanny knew that older survivors in every settlement sometimes had the same malady. Pendillo had taught his sons that sickness happened because some of the survivors of the invasion had been so demoralized by defeat they had lost the mental ability to control their own physical processes. But Tak Laleen was one of the conquerors; nothing had demoralized the Almost-men. There was only one possible conclusion Lanny could reach: the invaders had never learned to control the energy imits in their body cells. A hunter's assignment, Lanny found, was easier than it had been in the smaller Santa Barbara settlement. The Almost-men had set up a vast himting preserve north and east of the bay; it was kept wellstocked with game. There was no need for the hunting parties to break through the pylon barrier and raid territory ceded to the invaders The hunters simply crossed the skyport bridge, circled the opalescent dome, and entered the forest, where broad trails had been conveniently laid out under the trees. This generous provision came about because the enemy considered the San Francisco compound something of a showplace, an experimental laboratory for improving relations with the conquered. A steady stream of tourists, sociologists, politicians and religious leaders poured into the San Francisco skyport from the mechanized home world of the Almost-men. They came to satisfy their curiosity, to purchase tourist relics, to examine and sometimes criticize the occupation policy. Frequently, when Lanny was hunting in the forest, he saw Almost-men who were recent arrivals in the skyport. Usually they floated above the trees in their individual, degravitized, force-field capsules, watching the hunt and eagerly recording the activity with their expensive cameras. Sometimes they whipped up enough courage to descend to the forest trails and talk to their captives. Several times Lanny was interviewed by the enemy, and slowly he began to flesh out a more realistic definition of the Almost-men. They were no longer a clear-cut symbol for something he hated, but suddenly more human and more understandable. They were physically weak, just like the older survivors in the treaty settlements. They were timid and unsure of themselves. They were hopelessly caught in a mire of pretty words, which they seemed to believe themselves. And without their machines they were helpless. After Lanny and his brother had been in the San Francisco area for nearly two weeks, they were invited to a formal session of the local resistance council, where they were accepted as new citizens of the community. The delegates met at night in the rubble of the old city. A narrow passage tunneled through the ruins to an underground room which had once been the vault of a bank and had, therefore, survived the bombing and the slashing fire of the energy guns. Gill did not stay with his brother in the rear of the vault. Instead he joined the young hotheads who formed the war party in the local council. At home Gill had dominated the same element. The men in every treaty area were split between two points of view. One group wanted to organize an immediate attack upon the invader, in spite of the inequality in arms. The others counciled caution, until they had the strength to strike a real blow to free the Earth. Since men had no weapons and no metals from which to make them, the obvious basis for any successful attack had to be a scheme for seizing arms from the enemy. "We can only destroy the Almostmen if we use their own machines." Again and again the San Francisco war party repeated that fact; it seemed an argument so self-evident that it was beyond any rational challenge. "The machines have no intelligence, no sense of values; they will obey us just as readily as they obey the enemy." "More so." Gill spoke clear and loud, in crisp self-confidence. "I do not believe the enemy knows how to feel the structure of matter." This statement created a minor sensation. The heads of the delegates turned slowly toward Gill. Gill was smiling, his mane of blond hair shimmering like gold in the flickering light. Lanny felt, as always, a tremendous admiration for his brother. Gill was so sure of himself, so certain that he was right. Gill's mind would never have been plagued by shadowy fears he couldn't understand. "I have seen an enemy bleed," Gill went on. "They do not know how to heal a wound." "That might be true of some," one of delegates answered. "Some of our old ones have forgotten, too. But you spoke as if the individual community of cells could be extended to include integration with all external matter." "By touch; I have done it myself." "You mean the extension into the energy mits of your hunting club." The delegate smiled depre ciatingly. "We all imderstand that. But a wooden club was once a living thing. Community control over other forms of matter is entirely different." "No, the machines respond the same way. I made a motor turn over, when it had been idle and without fuel for twenty years. It frightened me when it happened. The energy in the metal was something new, and I couldn't understand the structure at first. But I've thought about it since, and I'm sure -- " "We'll look into the possibilities -- after we capture the enemy machines. Our problems at the moment is to get the machines." The delegates returned to their discussion. They had agreed, long ago, that the only way to attack the skyport was from inside the protective, force-field dome. For years the Almost-men had tried to encourage trade between the skyport and the treaty area, and the resistance council had turned that to their advantage. Gradually they had increased the number of young men who went to the city with necklaces of animal teeth and meaningless gee-gaws for the tourist trade. The Almost-men had grown used to seeing a mob of the lower tiers of the city. The council had regularly altered the trading parties, so that every man in the San Francisco colony had been under the dome half a dozen times. They knew their way around in the skyport; they knew the location of the power station and the city arsenal. When the attack came, fifty men in the city would seize the power plant and the rest would attempt to take the arsenal. One of the hotheads arose from his place beside Gill. "We have discussed this and argued it for almost as long as I can remember," he said. "There is nothing more to be said, for it or against it. Hasn't the time come to take a vote?" A moderate protested mildly, "But have we weighed all the risks? If we make a mistake now -- " "Gan you suggest a better way to get weapons?" And the moderate admitted, "True, we can't defeat the enemy unless we have weapons comparable to theirs." It was the last gasp of an old argument. Everything that could be said had already been said; every delegate knew both sides to the debate, and every delegate was driven by the same instinct to make a fight to reclaim his lost world. When the vote was counted, a majority of the council favored war. A committee was appointed to make the final disposition of forces and to set the time for the attack. Lanny was not surprised when Gill was named a member of the commitee. On the afternoon following the meeting, Lanny was assigned to a group of traders so he might learn the geography of the skyport before the attack. As the enemy capital on Earth and a tourist attraction, the San Francisco skyport was a miniature replica of an enemy city. Under the dome were tiers of streets and walkways, interwoven in complex patterns, and the battlement spires of luxury hotels, theatres, cabarets, public ouildings. The streets overflowed with a flood of jangling traffic, and the air was filled with the well-to-do riding their de-grav cars in the enviable security of their private capsules. Lanny's overall impression was a place of intolerable noise and glitter. The Almost-men seemed to make a fetish of their machines. They found it necessary to use their clattering vehicles even though their destination might be a building only one tier away. The air under the dome was fetid with the stench of vehicle fuels. The trading area was confined to a small, metal-surfaced square on the lowest level of the city, close to the narrow, neutralized vent through the force-field dome. Tall buildings swarmed above the trading booths, blotting out the sun. Lanny felt boxed in, imprisoned by the high walls, choked by the artificial, filtered air. He sold a satisfactory quota of trade goods to the tourists who had adventured down to the booths. And he dutifully noted the location of the walkway to the power center and the arsenal. But he gave a sigh of relief when his duty was done and he was free to go back across the bridge to the treaty area. He filled his lungs with the crisp, damp air, unsterilized by the fans of the enemy city. How could the Almostmen survive, he wondered, how were they capable of clear-headed thinking, in such seething confusion? In the treaty areas, where men could put their naked feet upon the soil and feel the life-energy of the earth, where men breathed the fresh wind and held sovereignty over their environment -- only there were men really free. Would he trade that for the city walls that blotted out the sun, and the monotonous throbbing of machines? The victor was the slave; the conquered had found the road to liberty. For the first time in his life Lanny understood the paradox. Stated in those terms, what did men actually have to fight for? As he always did when he had a problem, Lanny went to Juan Pendillo. It was late in the afternoon. Already the cooking fires were being lighted on the small rectangles of earth in front of the houses where the older survivors lived. But Pendillo and Dr. Endhart were still inside, packing away the models which Endhart had used to teach his last class for the day. They usually waited for Lanny or Gill to make their night fire, since Pendillo's sons did the work so effortlessly. Tak Laleen was with the teachers. She sat on the only chair in the room, playing abstractly with one of Endhart's teaching tools -- a crude mock-up of the structure of a living energy unit. It was the same sort of learning-toy Lanny himself had been given when he was a child. Lanny burst in on them excitedly. He began to talk at once, trying to put in words the conviction that had come to him as he stood on the bridge. Suddenly the words were gone. In his own mind it was clear enough, but how was he to explain it? How could he tell them it would be self-destruction to capture the city of the Almost-men? 'You wanted to talk to us?" Pendillo prompted him. "It -- it's this vote we've taken for war, father." Lanny glanced at Tak Laleen. His father and Endhart smiled disarmingly. "You can talk quite freely," Endhart said. "Tak Laleen knows the vote has been counted. She knows what it means." "Unarmed men are going to attack the city," the missionary said without expression. "You are very courageous people. But you are certain you will win -- against our ma chines and our energy guns." With a frown, she put aside the model she had been holding. Her face was drawn and tense; there was doubt and fear in her eyes. "Of course we'll take the skyport," Lanny assured her. "That doesn't worry me. It's what happens afterward -- what we do when we have your guns and your machines." Endhart and Pendillo exchanged glances, in subtle understanding. "The city will belong to us," his father said. "Why do we want it? The city is a prison!" The eyes of the elders met again "We need guns to protect ourselves. Haven't you always said that, Lanny? You've heard all the discussions in the council meetings." "But do we, father? Answer me honestly." "You can answer that better than I, my son." T Laleen stood up, wringing her hands. "You will face the forcefield and oir guns -- but you wonder if you need weapons." With an effort she checked the hysterical laughter bubbling in her throat. "My people would say you had gone mad ; but who knows the meaning of madness?" Pendillo took the missionary's hand firmly in his. "She's tired, Lanny. Our ways are still new to her." "And we've had her cooped up in the house too long," Endhart added. Pendillo glanced sharply at his friend. Endhart nodded, "It is time," he said cryptically. Pendillo turned toward his son. "A walk outside would do her good, Lanny." "Is it safe?" "She won't try to escape; you and I will go with her." Pendillo led her toward the door. Her face glowed with hope. She glanced eagerly down the long street, lit by the evening fires. Lanny was sure she was looking for the nearest Chapel of the Triangle, calculating her chances of escape. She was the enemy. What reason did his father or Endhart have to trust her so blindly? At the door Pendillo turned for a moment toward Endhart. "You'll make sure Gill knows?" "At the proper time; leave it to me. "Knows what?" Lanny demanded. "That we may be a little late for dinner," his father answered blandly. He nodded toward Tak Laleen and Lanny understood. Lanny walked on one side of Tak Laleen and slid his arm firmly under hers. She kept running her fingers nervously over his arm. She tripped once, when her foot caught in a shallow hole; her nails tore a deep gash in Lanny's flesh as he reached out to keep her from falling. He healed the wound at once, except for a small area where the germ colony needed exposure to the life-energy of the sun. She looked at his arm. Her lips were trembling; her face was white. "So you can do it, Lanny." For a moment he had forgotten her remarkable inability. "You mean the healing? All men do that; we always have. A rational mind controls the structure and energy of organized matter." "I've listened to Dr. Endhart teaching that to the small children," she replied. "It -- it is difficult to believe." She began to laugh again; waves of hysteria swept her body. "I'm sorry, Lanny. I've thought, sometimes, that I'm losing my mind. We're never really certain of ourselves, are we? Two plus two doesn't have to make four, I suppose ; it's just more convenient when it does." "I could show you how to heal yourself, Tak Laleen." "Ever since I came here I've been learning, Lanny. But it does first. My mind is tied down by everything I already know. I can put my two and two together as ofl;en as I like, and I still come up with four. Any other answer is insanity." Twice, as they walked through the streets, Pendillo took a turn which led toward one of the enemy chapels. Lanny swiftly guided the missionary in another direction. The third time they came upon the Chapel of the Triangle suddenly, and before he could pull Tak Laleen back she broke free and fled toward the glowing Triangle, crying for help in her native tongue. Lanny sprinted after her. Tak Laleen beat with her fists on the metal door. From the air above them came the high whine of a materializing force-field. Capsules swung down upon them. The missionary was swallowed within the church. Lanny and his father were enveloped in a single bubble. It rose on an automatic beam and arched toward the skyport. In panic Lanny glanced down through the opalescent field at the settlement rolling by beneath them, and the choppy water of the bay, turned scarlet by the setting sun. Pendillo leaned calmly against the curved wall of their prison. "She betrayed us!" Lanny cried. "I expected her to, my son." "You -- you knew this would happen?" "A teacher must sometimes contrive a unique -- and possibly painful -- learning situation. It's one of the risks of our profession." "Why, father? She'll tell the Almost-men about the attack on the skyport; she'll tell them -- " Pendillo tapped the curved wall of force. "We're in a tight spot, Lanny. It's up to you to get us out -- without a gun and without any of the enemy machines. All you have to work with are your brains and what we've taught you for the past ished, Lanny -- for all of you who twenty years. I think you can count are the new breed. Now start apon some help from Gill later on. plying what we think you know." He'll have to attack the skyport tonight, without working out all his And Gill won't have any guns,T sphere that held Lanny and either." Juan Pendillo was suspended above "So you and Endhart planned the teeming tiers of skyport streets, this." Enough time, Lanny guessed, for "That's why I insisted on keepthe enemy to question Tak Laleen ing Tak Laleen alive. I thought we and to reach some decision based might need her as -- as a catalyst, upon what she had to tell them. The vote of the resistance council Abruptly the capsule was hauled nished things a little, but on the down. Lanny and his father were whole I think it worked out quite dumped into barred cells buried satisfactorily. Your education is finsomewhere in the bowels of the city. "What will they do with us?" Lanny asked. From the adjoining cell his father answered placidly, "It depends mi T ak Laleen's statement -- and how much of it they believe." "Will they condemn us to readjustment?" "Undoubtedly, unless you solve our problem first -- and these bars seem thoroughly solid to me." Lanny drew in his breath sharply, suddenly afraid. "What's it like, father -- the readjustment?" "No one knows, really. A machine tears your mind apart and puts it together again -- differently." Lanny shivered as he remembered the half-dozen readjustment cases he had seen in the Santa Barbara treaty area -- living shells, with all initiative and individuality drained from their souls. He moved to the barred door of his cell. For a split-second of panic he seized the bars and futilely tried to pry them apart. Slowly edging into his consciousness came a vague awareness of the structural pattern of the energy units in the metal. It was the S#ime extension of his integrated community of cells which he had with his hunting club. His panic vanished; he felt a little ashamed because he had been afraid. It would be no problem to escape. He held the bars and allowed his mind to feel through the pattern of energy organization. The metal was very different from any of the familiar substances Lanny knew, but far less complex because the arrangement was so rigidly disciplined. There were two things that Lanny might do. He could fit the energy imits of his own body past the space intervals of the metaJ -- in effect, passing through the metal barrier. But that would be slow and exacting work. It would require a considerable concentration to move the specialized cells of his body across the metal maze. The second method was easier. As he extended his cerebral integration into the metal, he could rearrange the energy unit pattern. The bars should fragment and fall apart. Lanny was amazed how rapidly the change took place. Before he could adjust the pattern of more than half a dozen energy units, a chain reaction began. Lanny found he had to absorb an enormous flow of superfluous energy to prevent an explosion. As soon as he crossed into the corridor, watching photo-electric cells sent an alarm pulsing into the guard room on the tier above. The metal-walled corridor throbbed with the deafening cry of a siren. Lanny darted toward his father's cell. "Hold the metal and make it over with your mind -- just as we integrate with our clubs. It's the same principal, father." Pendillo shrugged. "I can't, Lanny. I don't know how." Lanny had no time to weigh the significance of what his father said for the scream of the siren stopped and a guard appeared at the head of the corridor. The guard wrapped himself hastily in the shell of a force-field capsule. He fired his energy gun. The knife of flame arched through the corridor and struck Lanny's face. His body reacted instinctively, absorbing and storing part of the charge and reconstructing the rest so that it became a harmless combination of inert gasses. But as the blinding flame splashed bright in Lanny's eyes -- the way it had once before, when he murdered old Barlow -- Lanny's mind faced the traumatic shock of remembering. Lanny had murdered Barlow -- he knew that, now -- murdered him with a blaze of energy which he had stored when he brushed against the force-field capsule surrounding Tak Laleen. It was not the fact of murder that had clamped the strait jacket of forgetfulness on Lanny's mind and allowed him to think Tak Laleen had killed Barlow. He had known, for one split-second, the full maturity of the education Pendillo had given his sons. Known it too soon, with too little preparation. Now he understood why he had felt ashamed, why he'd retreated deliberately from the truth: because he had killed Barlow to resolve an old argument, not to be rid of a traitor. The method of murder had, ironically, given him the answer to Barlow's poison of despair; but because the two had happened simultaneously, the emotional shock of one had affected the other. The bursting charge of energy washed away his absurdly exaggerated sense of guilt. He achieved the mature integration he had lost before; his mind was whole again. The integration was nothing new -- merely a restatement of what Pendillo had taught him, what all the treaty area teachers taught the new children. The mind of man could control the energy structure of matter. Pendillo called that rationality. But matter and energy were synonymous. The teachers had implied that without teaching it directly. A mind that could heal a body wound was also able to control the energy blast from an enemy gun. From his father's cell Lanny heard a stifled groan. He looked back. The bars of the cell had been twisted by the blast; Pendillo was badly hurt. His wounds seemed to be extensive, but Lanny was sure his father would heal himself quickly. Lanny sprang at the guard. The Almost-man had enough courage to hold his ground, still sure of his impregnable machines. He was aiming his energy gun again when Lanny touched the opalescent capsule. That, too, was nothing now; Lanny had found his way into the new world. The field of force was simply energy in another form. Lanny could have reshaped the field, intensified it, or dissolved it as he chose. He shattered the capsule, like a bubble of glass. He smashed the gun aside. The guard stood before him, stripped of his mechanical armor -- a man, facing his enemy as a man. As the guard turned to run, Lanny reached out for him leisurely. Weakly the guard swung his fist at Lanny's face. Lanny laughed and slapped at the ineffectual, white hand. The guard howled and clutched the broken fingers against his mouth. Desperately he lacked at Lanny with his metal-soled boots. Lanny dodged. The unexpected momentum sent the guard reeling and he had no eScicnt capsule to hold him up. He sprawled on the metal floor close to his energy gun. He grasped for the weapon as Lanny leaped toward him. For one brief moment Lanny saw madness film his enemy's eyes. Then the guard began to scream. He thrust the muzzle of the energy gun against his own chest and pressed the firing stud. Lanny turned away from the smoldering heap of charred flesh and went back to his father's cell. He disorganized the energy units of the tormented knot of metal bars and knelt beside Pendillo. Lanny was amazed that his father had made no effort to heal his wounds. Juan was bleeding profusely; his eyes were glazed with pain. Lanny lifted Pendillo tenderly in his arms. "Father! You must begin the healing -- " "I do not know how, Lanny." "All men control their own body cells!" "So you were taught, and what a man believes is true -- for him." Cautiously Lanny extended his energy integration into his father's body. It was something he had never done before with a living man. The weak disorganization of cells frightened him. Clearly Pendillo was telling the truth; he was incapable of ordering his own healing. Then how had he taught his sons so well, if he could not use the technique himself? Hesitantly Lanny released into his father's body some of the energy he had stored. He wasn't sure what the effect would be, but it seemed to help. Pendillo tried to smile ; his eyes became clearer. "Thanks, Lanny. But you can't save me, my son. I've lost too much blood; I have too many internal injuries." "But you could do it for yourself. Father." Lanny shook his head. "I don't understand why -- " "You wouldn't, Lanny. You're Ae new breed." "You say Aat so often." "In my time Aat might have meant a new species -- supermen we created by genetics in a biological laboratory. But we've done more Aan that. You aren't freaks; you're our children in every sense of Ae word. We have made you men; we've taught you how to think." "You deliberately made us as we are?" "Every man who lived before your time was an Almost-man, Lanny. He had your same potential, but he hadn't learned how to use it." "How are we different?" Pendillo was seized with a sudden spasm of coughing; blood trickled from his lips. Once again Lanny released a shock wave of energy into his father's body, and Pendillo's strengA was partially restored. "I will tell you as much as I can," Pendillo promised, but his voice was no longer as clear as it had been. "I don't have much time left. The idea for our new breed of men began at the time of Ae invasion. Lanny, there wasn't much to choose from between our people and the enemy. Our cities were like Aeirs; we were enslaved by machines -- by the technological bric-a-brac of our culture -- as they are. Only our science was different. We had exploited the energy of coal and oil and water-power; we were beginning to accumulate a good deal of data about the basic atomic structure of matter. "But we would have ridiculed any serious consideration of degravitation, or the magnetic energy of a field of force. These were the trappings of our escapist fiction, not of genuine science. We had a more or less closed field allowed to legitimate scientific research; any data beyond it was vigorously ignored. "Then, from nowhere, we were invaded and utterly defeated by an alien people who used the precise laws of science we had scorned. Furthermore, we saw them ridicule our principles as semi-religious rituals of a savage culture. In the invasion less than a tenth of mankind survived. We were herded into the treaty areas, with no government and no real leadership. Some of us had been teachers before the war; the survivors looked to us to preserve the spirit and the ideals of man. "We had to make a selective choice, Lanny. We had no books, no written records, no way to preserve the whole of the past. The teachers in all the treaty areas quickly established contact by courier. The lesson of the invasion had taught us a great deal. Men had been imprisoned by one scientific dogma, which had produced a mechanized and neurotic world. The Ahnost-men were trapped by another that had produced the same end result. "So we had our first objective: to teach our children the supreme dignity, the magnificent godliness, of the rational mind. We didn't tell you what to think -- which had been our mistake in the past -- but simply the vital necessity of rational thought. We taught you that the mind was the integrating factor in the universe; everything else was chaos, without objectivity or direction, until it was controlled by mind. After that, we jammed your brains with data from every field of knowledge that had ever been explored by man. That's why we interchanged couriers so frequently. In our world we had been specialists; we had to share the facts among ourselves so the new breed might have them all." Far away they heard the dull thunder of an explosion. Lanny's head jerked up. Pendillo coughed up blood again, but there was a satisfied smile on his lips. "That will be Gill and the boys from the treaty area," he sighed. "Arriving right on schedule. We've forced them to attack the city without weapons; to survive, they'll have to make the same mental reintegration that you did, Lanny." "How could you have been so sure, father, that we would be able to -- to handle the matter-energy imits the way we do?" "We weren't, my son. We were sure of nothing. We only knew that you were the first generation whose minds had been set completely free. Nobody had done any of your thinking for you. If any man is equipped to solve problems, you are -- you of the new breed.' "But why couldn't you learn the same techniques yourselves? Why can't you save yourself now, father?" "Because we belong in the old world. Because the technique is only an application of the data you know, Lanny ; that is something you have worked out for yourselves. We could give you the theory; we were incapable of following it through your minds." Pendillo gasped painfully for breath. He clos his hand over his son's. "The old survivors are still imprisoned by beliefs carried over from the world we lost. We teach, Lanny, but we cannot believe as you do, even when we see our own children -- our own sons -- His voice trailed away, and he slumped against Lanns chest. A series of explosions rocked the metal walls; Pendillo opened his eyes again. His dying whisper was so soft, so twisted by pain, the words were almost inaudible. "One more thing, son. We did more -- more than we thought. Don't retreat to our world; make your own. Without the machines and the city walls and the uproar -- " Juan Pendillo grasped his son's hand. His fingers quivered for a moment of agony. And then he died. L anny stumbled away from the cell, his eyes dim with tears. The repetitive explosions continued outside in the domed city. Lanny discovered the origin of the sound when he made his way up the incline to the upper level. The parade of gigantic freight spheres was swinging in from the void of night, but Ae port machines, which handled the landings, were idle. The spheres were crashing, one upon the other, into the field just beyond the city. From disengaged, plmble tubes, jerking with the spasmodic torment of mechanical chaos, the raw materials plundered from the earth poured out upon the ruin. Fire licked at the wreckage, probing hungrily toward the city of the Almost-men. Lanny ran through die deserted guard rooms. Beyond the walls he heard a babble of panic on the city streets. The first exit that he found led up to the second level, where no man had ever been. He emerged on an ornate balcony, which overlooked the square where the trading booths stood. The force dome that had sheltered the city was gone. Lanny could look up and see the stars -- and the endless parade of glowing freight spheres descending toward the earth. The air was clean, cold and wet with the sea mist. In a sense the depressing, stifling city he had seen that afternoon was already gone -- except for the bleak walls and the clatter of machine sounds. And, in the agony of its death, the city noise had become the scream of mechanized madness. A seething mass of vehicles choked every tier, fighting for space, grinding each other into rubble. Vehicles careened from the upper roads and plunged into the mass beneath. At first it seemed a panic of machines. The people were trivial incidentals -- bits of fluff which had been unfortunate enough to get in the way of the turning wheels. Then Lanny saw the walkaways, as crowded as the roads. A mass of humanity spewed through the doors of the luxury hotels, like run-off streams swelling the floodtide of a swollen river. Where were the Almost-men going? How could they escape? They had given their will and initiative to their machines; they could do nothing to help themselves. Lanny saw an occasional opalescent bubble rise in the air. But inevitably, before it could move beyond the city, a force of blazing energy shot up from the lowest tier and brought the capsule down. Here and there in the darkness Lanny saw the furious blast of an energy gun, probing futilely into the chaos. As the fire rose higher in the port wreckage, Lanny saw men fighting on the lower tier. They held the bridge and the trading square and they had taken the power center, which explained why the city was dark and why the force dome was gone. But they were still fighting to take the arsenal. A squad of guards held them off with energy guns ; the men fought back from the darkness with weapons they had captured elsewhere. Even now they hadn't discovered the truth; they still feared the enemy weapons. They still thought they must have guns of their own -- machines of their own -- in order to be free. Build your own world, Pendillo had said; don't go back to ours. Lanny pushed through the throng on the walkway, trying to find an incline to the lower tier. Once or twice people in the mob saw him, in the shuddering light reflected by the energy guns, and recognized him as a man -- a, halfnaked, black-bearded savage. They screamed in terror. This was the hour of man's revenge, yet Lanny felt an inexpressible shame and sadness. Was this the way man's cities had died a generation ago, in a discord of mechanical sound, without courage and without dignity? At last he found the incline to the lower level. It was jammed with a mass of Almost-men, fighting and clawing their way down so they might flee into the hunting preserve beyond the city. The tide swept Lanny with it. At the foot of the incline he circled the arsenal to join the men, still confined in the trading square. Gill was directing the fire of his men as they inched forward. He clapped Lanny on the back, grinning broadly. "I knew you'd get out, Lan. Is Juan all right?" "He's dead. Gill. He was wounded and he didn't know how to heal himself." "He had to know, Lanny; he taught us." "They all taught us. They made us -- " Lanny's voice choked a little as he used his father's familiar phrase. " -- a new breed. Gill, we're acting like fools; we're fighting for something we don't want or need." "We have to have weapons, Lan." "We need nothing but what we've been taught. The mind interprets and commands the chaos of the universe. Matter and energy are identical." Lanny turned and walked, erect and unafraid, toward the arsenal. The energy fire from the guards' guns struck him and exploded. He reorganized the pattern into harmless components and stood waiting for the charge to die away. In a moment Gill was beside him, beaming with imderstanding as he met and transformed a second blast from the guns. "Of course matter and energy are the same!" he cried. "It should have been obvious to us. We have been prisoners twenty years for nothing." "We needed those twenty years to discover our new world. We have only finished our education tonight." As a third blast of energy came from the arsenal, other men slid out of the darkness and faced the guns. Lanny and Gill walked away, ignoring the screaming machines and the stabbing knives of fire. "Yesterday," Gill said slowly, "if I had known that I could direct a flow of energy just as easily as I integrate with my hunting club, I would have stood here cheerfully and slaughtered the Almost-men, just to watch them die. Now, I'm sorry for them." "There's no reason why they must all die in panic. Gill. Isn't there some way -- " Behind them they heard a burst of ragged cheering. The arsenal guards, having seen their weapons fail, had deserted their posts and fled. Men stormed into the building, shattering the metal doors by reorganizing the energy structure. Slowly they wheeled out the great machines -- the symbols of enemy power. "We fought for this," one of the men said. "And now we have no use for them." Gill called a meeting of the resistance coimcil in the deserted trading square, while the city around them throbbed in the chaos of disintegration. The men were entirely aware of the problem created by their liberation. The new breed was free, on the threshhold of a new and imexplored world. They could carry the message to other treaty areas; they could show other men the final lesson in reorientation. That much was simple. But what became of the enemy? "It would be absurd to kill them all," Gill said. He added with unconscious irony, "After all, they do know how to think on their own restricted level. They might be able, someday, to learn how to become civilized men." "The worst of it," one of the others pointed out, "is that their home world is bound to know something's wrong. The delivery of resources has already been interrupted. They will try to reconquer us. It doesn't matter, particularly, but it might become a little tiresome after a while." "Ever since I understood how this would end," Lanny said, "I've been wondering if we couldn't work out some way for them to keep the skyports just as they are. Let the Almost-men have our resources. They need them ; we don't." The council agreed to this with no debate. Lanny was delegated to find someone in authority in the skyport and offer him such a treaty. Lanny asked Gill to go with him. The others split into two groups, one to put out the fires and clear away the port wreckage; the second to herd the enemy refugees together in the game preserve and protect them from the animals. Lanny and Gill pushed through the mob toward the upper levels of the city. The crowd had thinned considerably as more and more of the enemy fled into the forest. The brothers, barefoot giants, had an entirely unconscious arrogance in their stride. They passed the rows of luxury hotels and entered the government building. Here, apparently, there was an emergency source of power, for the corridor tubes glowed dimly with a sick, blue light. Room after room the brothers entered; they found no one -- nothing but the disorderly debris of haste and panic. Methodically they worked their way to the top floor of the building. In a wing beyond the courtroom were the private quarters of the planetary governor. He sat waiting for them in his glass-paneled office overlooking the tiers of the city. He was a tall man, slightly stooped by age. He had put on the full, formal uniform of his office -- a green plastic, ornamented wiA a scarlet filagree and a chest stripe of jeweled medals. He was behind his desk with the wall behind him open upon the sky. "I expected a stampeding herd," he said. "You knew we were coming?" Lanny asked. "It was obvious you'd try to force us to sign a new treaty." "Call it a working agreement," Gill suggested. "We intend to let you keep the -- " "You have panicked the city by taking advantage of our kindness. But you won't pull this stunt again; I've already requested a stronger occupation force from parliament." The governor stood up; he held an energy gun in his hand. "This frightens you, doesn't it? You should have expected one of us to keep a level head. I've handled savages before. You're very clever in creating believable illusions, particularly when there seems to be some religious significance. I should have known it was a trick when you sent that addle-witted missionary back to us." "Tak Laleen?" "Of course none of my men tell me what's going on until it's too late. They took her to the Triangle first. She talked to the priests, and they filled the city with all sorts of weird rumors about men who could control the energy pattern of matter." The governor's lip curled; he nodded toward a side door. "She's here now, under house arrest. She'll be expelled from the territory on the first ship out after the port is reopened." "She's wasn't lying," Laimy said. "She understood more than we did ourselves. Maybe Juan told her -- The governor laughed and motioned with his gun. "Will you join her, or do you want to force me to spoil your pretty illusion?" Gill walked unhurriedly toward the desk. "You must listen to us. Fire the gun, if you insist on that much proof. We want to save your world, not destroy it." The governor backed toward the open wall panel. "Stand where you are, or Til fire!" "Just give us a chance to explain -- "The whole business is drivel. Superstitious nonsense. No man can violate the established laws of science." "Why not, since men made die laws originally?" The shell of dignity in the governor's manner began to crack away, revealing the naked hysteria that lay beneath. Gill moved again. The governor punched the firing stud of his energy gun. The fire lashed harmlessly at Gill's chest "It's a lie!" the governor screamed. He fired the gun again at Lanny; then at Gill. His mouth quivered with terror. He was an intelligent man; he looked upon the evidence of a fact that overturned everything he believed. In the clamor of a dying city, still throbbing far below his open wall panel, he heard the testimony of the same discord. He lost his rational world in the chaos, and he hadn't the ability to find another. For a moment the governor stood looking at the half-naked giants he had been unable to kill. Then he flimg the weapon away and leaped through the open panel into the mechanical clatter of the dying city. "Once I wouldn't have cared," Gill told his brother. "Now I do. Lanny, must we destroy their world in spite of ourselves?" They heard a faint voice behind them. "Not all of us, Gill." The brothers turned. They saw Tak Laleen, dressed again in the white uniform of the missionary. She came slowly through the metal panel of a door. "You see, it is possible for us to learn," she said when she stood within the room. "I have." "Then all your people -- "Not all of them. A few, if they're fortunate." "You did it, Tak Laleen; most of our older survivors haven't." "They watched you grow up. The change was so gradual, they weren't aware of it. I fell into your hands at the moment when you were yourselves discovering your potential capabilities. I followed the three of you when you ran away from the sphere police in Santa Barbara. One of you had touched my force-field capsule and drained away its power. I had to know how you did it. By intuition I guessed something very close to the truth, but even so it could have unhinged my mind if it hadn't been for Juan Pendillo. He taught me what he had taught you -- a new point of view, a new way of looking at the world. He was so gentle and so patient, so easy to understand." "And after all that, you ran away from the skyport and betrayed him." "It was a put up job." She smiled. "Juan and I worked it out together. He wanted to force the city guards to attack the treaty area; but, if my people refused to believe what I told them, at least Gill would try to rescue his father and Lanny. We had to make the conflict begin before you were armed. If you won by using a machine, you might put your faith in machines again instead of yourselves. It was a risk for Juan and myself, but more so for you. No one really knew what you might be able to do, or what your ultimate limitations were." "There are none," Gill said. "I know that now, because I've made the reorientation myself. I didn't then. The rational mind is the only integrating factor in the chaos of the universe -- Juan told me that. It is literally true. Mind creates the universe by interpreting it." She put her hand in Lanny's and looked up at the stars patterning the void of night. "I wish I might say that to my people and have them understand; but the clatter of our machines closes us in. Our world will die in violence and madness, the way the skyport died tonight. We may be able to help the survivors afterward; we can do nothing now." "But we must do it now," Lanny persisted stubbornly. "We don't want revenge, Tak Laleen; we've outgrown our reason for that." "Can you teach my people any differently than you learned yourself? It took an invasion and twenty years of imprisonment before you were able to break free from your old patterns of thinking." "But you did it in a day." "In the beginning, your teachers didn't know what their goal was; they only knew they had a problem and it had to be solved. I came in at the end, when their job was nearly finished and they were pretty sure where they were headed. That's why it was so easy for me." "And your world does that, too." Gill fingered his lip. "The trouble is, Lanny, it isn't simply a matter of giving them the facts. To us they are obvious, but you saw what happened to the governor. How can we make a man believe a new truth, when it means giving up all the science he has always believed?" "We failed with the governor because we threw the end result in his face without giving him a logical reason to accept it." Tak Laleen shook her head. "And so we're back where we started. We have to let my world fall apart before we can save it." She moved impatiently toward the door. "This building is a tomb. I want to walk on the soil and smell the wind and taste the energy of the earth." In an uncomfortable silence they left the government building. GiU integrated with the power in the lift, and they rode the elevator to the ground level. As the cage slid past the empty floors. Gill broke the silence abruptly. "If all we want is to prevent chaos on your world, Tak Laleen, it won't be hard. We'll just go through with the treaty we intended to offer to the governor. We can put things back as they were and go on delivering resources to the Almost-men. The only people who know the truth will be our prisoners. We can keep them out of sight and ourselves play at being Almostmen to satisfy any tourists who come to the skyport." "We'll have to do that for a while, until we work out something better; but it's only a stopgap. We have a problem," Lanny said doggedly. "We know it can be solved, because it has been for ourselves and for Tak Laleen. All we have to find is the method." "Learning begins with a need," the missionary said. "For you, it was twenty years of despair: invasion, humiliation, surrender. Your old ideas didn't work. You either had to accept status as second-raters or work out a new way of thinking. As for me -- " She shrugged her shoulders. "I suppose I couldn't help myself. I did try to run away, remember. I tried every possible answer in terms of our logic first. I even thought, for a while, that Lanny was a robot. Anything but the truth." Gill asked, "When did you first begin to imderstand? What haplieve the truth?" "It was an accumulation of many things, I suppose." "That isn't specific enough. There must have been one instant what you believed and start learning something new." "I don't know when it was." They left the government building and walked through the lower courtyards of the city. Groups of Almost-men were being herded back into the city from the game preserve. They clung together, hushed and terrified. The city lights were in working order once more and the flashing colors turned their faces into gargoyle masks. Three guards, in tom and bloodstained imiforms, stood looking at the machines which men had hauled out of the arsenal. Suddenly one of the soldiers began to kick at an abandoned gun, screaming in fury while tears of rage welled from his eyes. Lanny turned away. It was painfully embarrassing to watch the dissolution of a human personality, even on the relatively immature level which the machine culture of the Almost-men had achieved. But as Tak Laleen watched the spectacle of childish rage, sudden hope blazed in her eyes. She grasped Lanns arm. "He's blaming the machine for our defeat," she said. "Now I remember what happened to me; now I know! When you were mnning away from Santa Maria, Lanny, you fired an energy gun at my sphere. It destroyed the forcefield and I fell out of the port. I was terrified -- not so much of you, but because my machine had failed. All night while I lay in the launch, I faced that awful nightmare. For the first time in my life, I began to doubt the system I had trusted. I lost faith in my own world. I felt a need for something else." Lanny repeated slowly, "Loss of faith in the status quo -- "Could we duplicate that for all your people, Tak Laleen?" Gill asked doubtfully. "Yes, I'm sure we could, Gill. We have a clue ; we know what has to be done. And we have an experimental laboratory." The missionary nodded toward the mob of cringing Almost-men coming in from the preserve. "We have a city of people, disorganized by panic, with their faith in the machine already shattered. While we teach these people how to make the reorientation, we'll learn the methods that will work most effectively with my world." They left the city and began to cross the bridge toward the treaty area. Tak Laleen passed her arms through theirs. She said, with sorrow in her voice, "No matter what we do, no matter how carefully we try to cushion the panic, we still have no way of being entirely sure of the results. Something that works with our prisoners or with us might destroy my world; it could send a planet into mass paranoia." "That risk is implied in all learning, Tak Laleen," Lanny answered. "We can never escape it. I'm not sure we ought to try. The individual who lives in a closed world of absolutes -- shut in by prison walls of his own mind -- is already insane. The sudden development of a new idea simply makes the condition apparent." "In a sense," Gill added, "there is no such thing as a teacher. There are people who expose us to data and try to demonstrate some techniques we can use, but any learning that goes on must come from within ourselves." "We will develop the most effective method we can," Lanny said. "Then we will apply it to your world, Tak Laleen. The rest is up to them. That's as it should be -- as it must be." Arm in arm they crossed the bridge -- two men and a missionary from an alien world. They had been enemies, but during a night of chaos and death they had learned to become men -- the first men to catch the vision of the new world of the mind. Each of them was soberly aware that the discovery was not an end, but a beginning. And they faced that beginning with neither fear nor regret, because they had the confidence that comes of maturity. The unknown was not a godpower or a devil-power, but a problem to be solved by the skill of a rational mind.    Only an expert in the vast literature of science can tell whether an alleged discovery is new, only critical repetition can establish its truth, and time one can measure its worth. -- Ernest Borek Doing a thing... is very different from knowing how and why you do it. Only as we learn the reasons why, does real progress begin; and for these reasons we must look to science as developed by research. -- Dr, Arthur Dehon Little Beautiful Karen, who had fled the shackles of Earth, once had written: "We shall never leave Earth as long as we compute escape velocity in miles per hour... " Guildenstern: Prison my lord? Hamlet: Denmark's a prison, Rosencrantz: Then is the world one, Hamlet: A goodly one, in which there are many confines, wards, and dungeons, Denmark being one o the worst, Rosencrantz: We think not so, my lord, Hamlet: Why, then, t is none to you; for there is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so. To me it is a prison. the Misseros dn Gaedo region of Altair #. There were little lakes and big lakes and middle-sized lakes scattered like sapphire dewdrops over a tableland verdant with forest. Some of the lakes had small green islands in them and it was on one of these islands that Larry saw the second native village. He brought the little flier down, circling several times before he deposited it gently on the water. Then he retracted the swallow-wings and started taxiing toward the shore. He had a feeling that this, surely, was the right place. It had the right look -- the odd, pathetic aspect all the other places had had in one way or another. The pink, spherical houses, perched absurdly on gangling stilts, came right down to the water's edge, and the village street debouched on the beach. If you could call the meandering aisle between Illustrated by Ed Emsh the houses a street In any event it sufficed for one, and it was filled now with the people of the village. They came down to the lake to greet him. The quaint people, the grown-up little boy and girl people who, in the premeditated phrasecogy of the Altair travelogue, "played at being adults in their simple paradise of fish and fruits and little isosceles triangles of vegetable gardens." Larry eased the flier between two cluttered fishing rafts, running its prow into the soft beach sand. He locked the controls and climbed out. The village chief walked down to the waters edge to receive him. "Welcome to my country," the chief said in standard Galactia, He bowed ceremoniously. In the eyes of his people he was far from yoimg, but in Larrs eyes he was a little boy with a fat man's body. He had a large cherubic face -- a small pink mouffi, chubby beardless cheeks, and enormous blue eyes. His hair was light brown, and there was a startling cowlick protruding over his forehead like the visor of a baseball cap. He was clad, as were all his subjects, in a gaudy thigh-length skirt, and he wore a fresh lei of iliao flowers around his neck. Larry imitated the bow, feeling ludicrous. "Thank you," he said. He surveyed the crowded street, looking over the chiefs shoulder. But all he saw were baby faces and rotund bodies, and no familiar face with delicate features and haunted blue eyes, no graceful shoulders... But that didn't necessarily prove that this was the wrong village. Karen didn't care for crowds, not even crowds that gathered to welcome her own husband. If he knew her at all she had probably fled into the forest the moment she had seen the approaching flier and now was sitting by some quiet stream, composing introvert verse... The chief had begun his wellrehearsed welcome speech. " -- for the duration of your visit," he was saying, "let my country be your countiy. Let my subjects be your subjects, and I, the chief, shall be your subject also -- " The traditional snowjob, Larry thought. To how many hungry-eyed tourists had he already delivered it? Tourists with blue lakes in their eyes and with little office cubicles crammed into the backs of dieir minds. If I were a tourist I'll bet it would sound terrific to me, too, he thought. I'll bet when he came to the part about the rent it wouldn't even disillusion me, that even then I'd be too blind to see the credit signs in his baby-blue eyes. But tourists didn't mind being duped. They came to the Misseros dn Gaedo region to fish and to hunt, to relax in an uncomplicated milieu; they didn't come to look for their wives. They'd had sense enough to marry emotionally stable women. Stolid women, unimaginative women -- "There is, of course," the chief said, "a small fee which we are required to ask for our hospitality. Probably you are familiar with the ruling of the Altair council in this respect. Having to ask payment for services which, in happier circumstances, I would gladly render free, is a source of extreme humiliation to me, but I have no choice." Larry already had his credit book in his hand. "I don't know exactly how long I'll be here," he said. "Perhaps a week -- " The chiefs blue eyes were guileless. "Our weekly rate is fifty credits," he said. "Payable in advance." The robber! Larry thought, tearing out five crisp tens. The first village had only asked thirty-five, anc that had been exorbitant enough. He hadn't had to pay then, though. One glance around had told him Karen wasn't there. Somehow, after years of weary searching and finding, you knew instinctively where to look; you sensed just ihe kind of mise en seine that would appeal to her. You could tell by the expressions on the people's faces, by the architecture of the houses, by the contour of the land. One glance had been enough and he had reentered the flier and lifted swiftly above the disappointed natives, and presently he had found this village. And this village looked right, this village could be the one -- And if it was, fifty credits was certainly cheap enough, he rationalized. Finding Karen was worth more than fifty credits any day. He handed the five tens to the chief and returned to the flier for his kit. By the time he returned to the beach the chief had already selected a "companion" for him and was walking back up the village street. The crowd, its duty done, was listlessly dispersing. Larry's "companion" was a buxom doll of a girl with a rosebud mouth, big blue eyes, and frizzly straw-colored hair. She took his kit and led the way up the street. There was a shed-like structure that resembled a primitive warehouse standing on the beach. But Larry knew it wasn't a warehouse, and when they passed it he identified the muffled sound that emanated from its interior as the smooth hum of a modem generator. He identified the vine-like cables that overhung the street for what they really were too -- electric wires. Multi-colored honeysuckle wound riotously around the stilts of the houses, but looking closely he saw the glint, here and there, of a copper pipe, and he knew that primitive Aough the houses might be in outward respects they at least had running water and other modem conveniences. They also contained some form of television receivers. The animal shapes of the antennae on their rooftops might convince the ordinary tourist that all he was seeing was a kind of cultural religious symbol, but Larry wasn't an ordinary tourist. He wondered cynically what ancient vintage of film entertainment the Interstellar Mass Media Board had alloted Altair #. Then he saw a group of native children playing in the nearby forest and he realized the nature of the game they were engaged in. The hoary "bang-bang" of the pre-space "caters" resounded incongruously among the idyllic trees as baby faced cowboys loped ecstatically about on imaginary steeds. Hopalong Cassidy rides again, Larry thought, and marveled at his own apostasy. The trouble with him was that he had seen too many converted cultures. Searching for Karen on so many out-of-the-way planets had made him hypercritical, in spite of himself, of the repetitious puppet dances of inferior civilizations. And when the dance was deliberately concealed behind simple, non-technological exteriors in order to lure vacationists from Earth and the other technologically advanced planets, there was something snide about it, something obscene... His "companion" had halted before one of the houses and was regarding him with mundane babyblue eyes. He concluded that it was the one the chief had assigned him. It , was no different from the other houses except that it really was what it purported to be : there were no water pipes hidden in its honeysuckle and the metallic animal design on its rooftop was just that. "You is mayhap tired?" the girl asked in pidgin Galactia. Larry was more than tired. He was exhausted. It had been more than twenty standard hours since he had left the Altair # consulate. But he shook his head. He took his kit from the girl, climbed high enough on the climbing pole so that he could shove it through the door, then returned to the street. He pulled his credit book from his pocket and riffled its crisp pages. "Am looking for Earth lady, beautiful Earth lady," he said. "You have mayhap seen?" The blue eyes were mesmerized by the green blur of the pages. "Beautiful Earth lady? How is lady look?" "Lady very very beautiful." He had trouble keeping his voice steady. "Have hair like sun, eyes like sky. Like to walk in woods. Very much like to walk in woods -- " He paused. The big blue eyes had risen from the credit book. They were filled with wonderment first, and then disbelief. Finally the disbelief faded and amusement took its place. A grimy hand covered the rosebud mouth, stifling a giggle. Larry felt like slapping her. He controlled himself with an effort and riffled the credit book again. "You have seen lady?" "Have seen many times. Crazy lady. Walk in woods, look at flowers, birds. Make funny marks in wrong color credit book." Larry sighed. It was the right place all right. There hadn't really been any doubt in his mind since the moment he had first glimpsed the village. "Where lady now?" "Not know. Think mayhap live at Mission. Not see many days now." "Where Mission?" "Mission on big hill, center of island." Keeping one blue eye on the credit book, she pointed up the street to where the houses petered out into the forest. "Walk through woods, come to creek. Follow creek back." Larry nodded. Then, reluctantly, he tore a five from the book and laid it on the outstretched hand that suddenly appeared before him. "Here," he said, "go buy yourself some electrical appliances." He turned abruptly and started up the path that led through the woods to the Mission beyond. charming little trees, sudden clearings filled with unexpected flowers, birds like winged blius of color... Larry W#dked ong slowly, bending his head sometimes to avoid the low branches of the trees. It was almost impossible not to picture her strolling dreamily through the enchanted aisles, curling up in some sequestered bower to jot down wisps of verse in the little notebook she always carried -- And such verse! Larry shook his head. He had never imderstood it and he never would. Not that he hadn't tried. But how could you understand outrageous outpourings like --  -- the cold touch of doubt upon you in the evening and the falling to Earth of stars, each burning infinitesimally in the little night, abruptly microcosmic, its hauteur gone, a pitiful cinder beneath the scuffed shoes of man... or -- we have converted the souls of mountains into shining ships, and yet we cannot leave Earth; we shall never leave Earth as long as we compute escape velocity in miles per hours... Nonsense, Larry thought. Utter nonsense. Like all the rest of her poetry. And yet, illogically, an obscure publishing house had brought out a collection of her most aberrant verse imder the title of The Prisoners of Earth. Nor had they stopped wiA one collection. A year later another had appeared. Equations. Larry bent back an offending low branch until it snapped. Equations! The book had turned out to be even more esoteric than The Prisoners of Earth had been. At least The Prisoners had resembled poetry, even though not a single one of its lines had rhymed. Equations didn't resemble anything at all. Mass Man" for instance -- Homo Sapiens Technological Culture equals Mass Man and then there was the one on "Earth" -- Earth x # equals Earth and the one on "Escape Velocity" -- Emotional Escape Velocity Maturity ) Technological Progress The trees thinned out and he foimd himself on the green shoulder of a sparkling brook. He paused, staring down into the dancing water, the equations fading from his mind. There were always brooks in the milieus Karen chose when she ran away -- brooks and trees and meadows, lakes and gentle hills. Suddenly he had the feeling that he was reenacting an old, old scene out of an old, old play. The name of the play was Karen and its basic plot was girl-leaves-boy, boy-looksfor-and-finds-girl. They had performed the play in so many places, against so many backgrounds... The first place had been the Tetkov reservation of Alpha Centauri #, and the back ground had consisted of lazy rivers winding among tumbled hills and green traceries of trees in serpentine valleys. Karen had joined the Tetkov nomads in that performance, and Larry had found her, after weary, heart-breaking months, creditless and starving in a little Tetkov town. He had taken her back to Earth, and after several months he began to think that one experience in "going native" had permanently cured her of her Weltschmerz. She was docile, and she smiled at the right times and laughed when she was supposed to, and she no longer made unintelligible remarks when galactic civilization was the topic of conversation. He even began to believe that she was going to be worth the five thousand credits he had paid her father for her after all. And then she had run away and the play had begun all over again. The background for that performance had been Heaven, the third moon of Sirius #. Heaven was the twenty-third psalm minus the valley of the shadow of death. It was a place of green pastures and still waters. It was blue sky and gentle terrain and soft winds breathing out of the south from morning till night, and a big safe night that was only a shade less bright than day. When he finally found her Karen was living on the reservation which the Earth Supreme Council had set aside for the natives. She was a shepherdess. She was wearing a shining white robe and hand-made native sandals, and she was holding a primitive shepherd's staff. She was the most beautiful thing he had ever seen, and when he saw her he wanted to cry. And then he had seen the disillusionment in her eyes, the pain; and for the first time he had noticed the bleak steel ribs of the new Interstellar Trade Building rising in the distance -- The dancing water threw flecks of simlight into his eyes and Larry turned away. He began walking along the green shoulder of the bank, the ground rising slowly beneath his feet. The grass was kneedeep and infiltrated with flowers; birds blurred from little tree to little tree. He had made up his mind on Heaven that there weren't going to be any more performances, but there had been many many more. He thought of them grimly, and thought too of the interludes between when Karen had rationalized her brief periods of conventional behavior by writing her paradoxical poetry. And for the hundredth time he wondered why he bothered, why he didn't let her go, let her become whatever it was that she wanted to become, let her, in her own words --  -- Break free from all the gaudy glittering things that constitute the circumstance of man, and become the essence of noU wanting... The forest, typical of all Karen forests, end abruptly, and a Karen-type hill raised its lovely green brow into the blue sky. On top of the hill the white buildings of the Mission gleamed in the afternoon sunlight. Larry climbed the hill slowly, wading in the tall grass. When he reached the outlying buildings and saw the new-turned grave in the little burial lot he knew, without knowing why or how he knew, that the basic plot of the play Karen had finally varied, and that the curtain this time, had fallen irrevocably. out of the chapel while Larry was standing by the grave. She walked over and stood beside him. She was old and thin, with faded eyes set deep beneath sharp dark brows. She wore the traditional golden cape about her shoulders, and the sacred U-# Emblem, symbol of the Galactic Church, glittered on her forehead. "She was your wife?" she asked. "Yes," Larry said. There was a vast emptiness building up beyond the Misseros dn Gaedo horizon, threatening to move in over the forests and the blue lakes. "She mentioned you several times. She seemed to be expecting you." "How did she die?" "She could have stayed here, but she wouldn't." The Mission Mother snifled. "She could have worked for her food and her lodging. But she was too lazy. All she wanted to do was wander in the forest, to dream -- " "Never mind all that," Larry said. "How did she die?" "She died of starvation. She lived in the village when she first came. Then, when her credits were gone, she liv in the forest. Naturally the natives refused to feed her when she could no longer pay." The Mission Mother looked at Larry closely. "You certainly can't blame them for that, can you?" "No, of course not," Larry said. The emptiness had begun to move in. He felt the first cold breath of it. "She didn't even blame them herself. Just before she died I heard her say, 'Father forgive them --  I don't know why she asked her father to forgive them though." Larry shook his head. He looked down at the grave again. There were fresh forest flowers covering it. "The flowers are beautiful," he said. He looked at the Mission Mother. "Did you put them there?" Two raddled spots of red appeared on the Mission Mother's thin cheeks. The U-# atom glittered harshly. "Yes .  . It isn't customary but -- " She dropped her eyes, stared at the grave. "I don't know why she wouldn't stay at the Mission," she said. "She could have worked for her food. She wouldn't have had to work hard. I don't know why she wouldn't. I don't know why she was so fascinated by the forest -- "Karen wasn't like us," Larry said. He looked over the Mission Mother's head at the metallic sphere of the chapel, at the big atom-emblem poised above it like the hard bright heart of a star. He wondered if Karen minded being buried in what she would have called a heathen churchyard. She had never believed in the Galactic Church. She had belonged to some silly religious sect that dated from before the dark ages of Earth, a dying sect that worshipped an impossible God who advocated throwing away credits. He decided that the religious aspect of the churchyard wasn't important. What was important was the green hill on which it stood, the matchless blue sky above it, and the forest and the lakes rolling away into the soft distances. Certainly, Karen belonged anywhere at all, she belonged here... The emptiness was very close now, and suddenly he knew that he couldn't face it. Not yet. He lowered his gaze to the Mission Mother... "Thank you for trying to help her," he said, and he was shocked to see that there were tears in her faded eyes. He turned away quickly and began walking down the hill. He walked down the hill and into the forest, the emptiness just behind him. He walked through the forest rapidly, following the dancing brook till he glimpsed the pink spherical houses through the foliage. He stopped at the house that the chief had assigned him and retrieved his kit, and then he continued on down the village street, the emptiness close at his heels. When he was halfway down the street the chief came running up behind him calling, "Wait! Wait!" Larry paused, and that was when the emptiness caught up to him. The chief was breathing hard. His baby face was red and his cowlick protruded belligerently. He looked like a kid playing baseball confronting an umpire who had just called a "ball" a "strike." "You did not tell me beautiful Earth lady is your wife," he panted. "She owes for one day's rent, and you must pay." Then he lapsed into one of the memorized sentences of his welcome speech: "Having to ask payment for services which in happier circumstances I would gladly render free -- The emptiness was all around Larry now. The numbing truth that he could never again find Karen, no matter where he looked, no matter how long he looked, overcame him; and he realized that searching for her had subtly become his raison d'etre, that without her to search for, to hope for, his life had no purpose, no meaning whatsoever. The shock of his loss sent his values tumbling, and shining like a sword through the chaos of what once had been an impregnable structure came the clear cold thought -- They let her die. They puttered about, playing with the outdated gadgets we sold them counting the credits we taught them to value, and they would not even throw her a crust of bread -- " -- is a source of extreme humiliation to me," the chief concluded, "but I have no choice." Larry's head was throbbing. He pulled his credit book out slowly. He handed it to the chief. Then he swung hard. The chief sank to his knees, spitting baby teeth and blood. Larry turned and resumed walking down the street. He walked slowly. He wanted the rest of the ( It was natural that Dee refuse. Taking things by force wasnt in his framework. And maybe it was well -- for Man can sometimes learn good, even from a robot... BY T here was nothing special about the flight -- as far as the public knew. It was only that the third contact party to Ganymede had come back. But the crowds were massed so thickly that it took Dee nearly half an hour to cover the five hundred yards to the edge of the field. The Space Department could easily have broken its own rules and dropped a copter to pick Dee up, but they chose not to. That action might have started rumors that something important was in train. The Space Department had acquired, during a century of failure, a reflex abhorrence to such rumors. In a way the density and exuberance of the present crowds bore witness to that century of thwarted effort and deferred hope. It was four years now since Mankind had broken through -- or half-through the space barrier -- yet still the enthusiasm ran at flood. But Dee and his fellows were not only instruments of achievement; they were symbols of hope for the future. In Dee and his fellows, men saw the image of their own selves to be. The copter that awaited him was an ordinary yellow civilian one, but the pilot was equipped with an SD authority which he showed to Dee with all the reverence of an acolyte baring a sacred relic. He ushered his passenger into the tiny cushioned cabin with a deference that made Dee feel uncomfortable. And when they grounded on the roof of the SD building he refused the fare that Dee offered. "Go on, please take it," Dee inIllustratd by Kelly Freas sisted. "Our kind doesn't have container. "I'm afraid I haven't, much use for money, really." I'm sorry." But the pilot lifted a beefy hand. But the man was diving at some"No sir. Carrying you is honor thing that had fluttered from the enough. First time I ever carried container. a real live -- " he coughed quickly -- "Is this real Ganymedean?" he "a real spaceman. Course, if you've said excitedly, got some little souvenir -- justapebDee scrutinized it, "No, that's a ble maybe, a real bit of Ganymede, piece of Martian canal grass. Why, my kid'd go crazy." I must have been carrying that Dee rummaged obligingly in his round for two years or more." "I can have it?" "Why, of course." Quickly, as if fearful of Dec's changing his mind, the pilot tucked the withered scrap of grass into the billfold, hopped into his cab and took off, leaving Dee shaking his head at a scale of values which he could never quite understand. Inside, the Space Department's anxiety was at the boil. An attendant gave Dee the curtest of greetings, then hustled him to the inner temple, the Board Room. Dee was surprised to see who was waiting for him. Jacques was ffiere, naturally. So was Floyd, chief of SD. But the dozen other faces were those of the top members of the World Council. So it was that important? For a moment Dee had misgivings. Jacques smiled and waved to him. Dee, constrained by the situation, bowed stiffly in brief salute and made his way to the place at the table indicated for him. Jacques rose for a moment. "This, gentlemen, is Dee, leader of the Ganymedean expeditions and the oldest of our robots." It was Sabin, Minister for Space, who began the questioning. First he politely asked if the radio was now repaired. Dee assured him that it was. Then Sabin asked the number one question, the one they were all gathered to hear the answer to. "Tell us, Dee, you have a crystal with you?" Dee, hesitated for only a moment. Then, "No, sir," he said. In the sudden silence that descended the tiny whisper of the robot's vital mechanism seemed stardingly loud. "And why not?" "The Ganymedeans refused to part with one." "But -- " Sabin looked patiently puzzled, like a grown-up addressing a child -- "you made our offers?" "Yes, sir, exactly as instructed. They are an agricultural race, so I offered them implements. They refused. They have no power. I offered them the gas engine. They weren't interested. They appreciate music. I offered them a record player. They were interested, but the suggestion that it might be fair barter for a crystal seemed to offend them." "But you offered them hundreds, thousands if they wanted them?" "Indeed, sir, but they seemed quite hurt. Oh, in a friendly enough way; it was just that -- " "The guns?" said Sabin abruptly. "You offered them the guns?" "No, sir," said Dee. "I did not offer them the guns." "But they are tribal, and conduct tribal warfare?" "Yes, sir." "Then why did you not offer them the guns, as you were instructed?" "Because I knew they would be rejected. Their warfare is more like a kind of gladiatorial contest, and is strictly limited both in scope and armament. Any alteration of the rules or the weapons would be unthinkable." Sabin looked at Dee with eyes as expressionless as the robot's own. And when he spoke his voice possessed almost as little inflection. "How did they react to the ultimatum?" Dee stared levelly back at his interrogator. "I did not give the ultimatum." The gathered humans seemed to twitch. What in fact happened was that a dozen pairs of eyebrows lifted, a dozen faces turned to Jacques and back. It was Sabin who voiced the word that had leapt into the brains behind those faces, a word that woke old, almost archetypal, fears. "That is mutiny. Dee. You realize that?" "Yes, sir," Dee answered simply. "But we could not bring ourselves to threaten force to friendly and intelligent beings." The disquiet of the assembled administrators abated slightly, but was qualified now by annoyance -- and a sense of impotence. The World President, the Old Man himself, big and rough and blunt, interjected. "But that doesn't concern you. Nobody wants to use force, anyway. We made reasonable offers of exchange." "Begging your pardon, sir," said Dee. "But the Ganymedeans did not consider them reasonable." "Then what do the idiots want?" "Nothing, sir." "Nothing?" "Yes, sir, there is nothing in the world, theirs or ours, that they would exchange a single crystal for. You see, the crystals are sacred. The flights they make with their aid are -- " he paused momentarily to search for the word -- "ritual. They would defend to the death any attempt to take a crystal by force." "Ah," Sabin said quickly. "Then you did mention the possibility?" "No, sir. Their warfare, such as it is, is also ritual. It is symbolic of resistance to anybody attempting to steal a crystal. Not that there is anybody to steal them, for no tribe would dream of stealing another tribe's stone. But it is a demonstration to their gods of their eternal readiness to defend their trust." "Poppycock," said the President. He leaned over the table towards Dee. "They wouldn't be able to defend their trust for five minutes against twenty robots." The President was angry now. "Why didn't you use force, as you were instructed?" "I am sorry," said Dee. "But no robot can kill any intelligent fleshand-blood creature. Unless, of course, it threatened Mankind." The President tried reasoning. "But how many alien lives would have been lost? Twenty? Fifty? A hundred? This crystal is of vital importance to us. You know that, don't you?" "Yes, sir." "And don't you know that for every important advance that Mankind has made, some lives have been inevitably lost? That to get you and your kind into space, in fact, cost literally thousands?" "Yes, sir, I realize that. But they were accidental deaths, not ones inflicted in cold blood. Moreover, sir, I gathered that should one crystal of the thirteen be lost, then every member of the tribe responsible would commit suicide at the shame of it." "You seem to be well informed about their beliefs," said Sabin drily.  A sound came from the robot that sounded suspiciously like a manufactured cough. "Well, sir, they did try to convert us." Jacques concealed a smile. Sabin looked pained. It's beside the point," the Presi- dent said gruffly. "But look, Dee, aren't we more important to you than a bunch of furry four-legged Ganymedeans? Are their hypothetical gods to be considered against us -- us who made you?" "Indeed, sir." The level, uninflected tone of the robot's voice seemed suddenly hushed. "That's the crux of it. We, unique among thinking creatures, know who made us. That is why we must respect creatures who only have faith. I knew that we could never carry out the ultimatum -- or even present it. I hoped that it would not be necessary. If we were other than we are, perhaps we could do as you wish, but -- Dee spread his hands in a gesture oddly human. The President raised his in exasperation and dropped them tiredly. Jacques got to his feet and spoke to the robot. "Now, Dee, let's put to one side the importance of these crystals to the human race. Will you do what has been asked of you, not for the sake of Mankind, but for my sake, and the sake of my grandfather who developed you, and my father who perfected you and wore himself out in the process?" Dee hesitated for only a moment. "I'm sorry, Mr. Jacques, believe me. But I can no more help refusing than a human can help withdrawing his hand from fire. It is integral." And it was obviously final. Sabin turned to the robot. "You may go," he said coldly. the President looked anxiously to Sabin. "Shouldn't he be guarded?" "What with?" said Sabin, managing to sound respectful and ironic at the same time. "Another robot?" "That's what I mean. This latest development is making me feel uneasy. I feel they can't be trusted any more." Jacques hastened to reassure them. "This isn't a new development. It's just an unforseen reaction to a new situation -- #. situation they haven't been confronted with before. But they could never turn against us. It only means that in this case they can't turn with us." "It's not without significance," Floyd commented drily, "that the first time that happens should be on an issue that concerns them personally. So far, robots have had the monopoly of space flight because we haven't yet found a motive jjower that doesn't' involve accelerations beyond the power of man to survive. The Ganymedeans have crystals with definite anti-gravitic properties. Once Man could develop that principle Dee and his fellows would take a back seat. So -- " he spread his hands -- "no crystal." Trust Floyd, Jacques thought. But could he really be blamed for thinking that way? Floyd would never be more than the nominal head of SD -- so long as SD had to rely on robots, and so long therefore as Floyd had to rely on Jacques. So it was no wonder if his feelings for robots fell some way short of veneration. "What do you say to that, Jacques?" said the President. "Only that it's erroneous," Jacques answered affably. "Robots don't think like that," "But how can we be sure?" It was Sabin. "Oh, I know all about aptitude patterns and reaction tests, and suchlike. But can we really know? Surely, the cardinal point is, that they have intelligence. That implies a capability to conceal their true motives, doesn't it?" "Perhaps. But any such motive could only be directed towards Man's good. They could have no personal desire to retain their monopoly." "Personal?" queried the President. "What other kind of motive could they have, then?" don't know, sir, I didn't bring the question of motive up. Dee's own comparison was to a human reflex action. Certainly, their reverence for intelligent life must be as basic to them as fear of fire is to us." The President grunted. "Fear -- reverence," said Sabin, as if balancing the words. "He looked sharply at Jacques. "They have emotions, then?" Jacques hesitated. "It's not quite as simple as that. They haven't anything resembling a glandular system. They cannot love -- not physically, anyway. They do not have children to protect, nor an old age to build and provide against. So they haven't the physical bases for emotion." "Well, then, have they emotions?" "Let us say that such emotions as they have, while real enough, are intellectual in origin. That seems a contradiction, but it's the way it is. Or the nearest it can be expressed in terms of human feelings." As soon as Sabin spoke next, Jacques recognized the comer into which the cold-eyed Minister had been hunting his quarry. "Then, if they have -- let us call them simulacra of emotions -- then they also possess the simulacrum of a desire to go on living?" "Ye-es." "Then they can be threatened -- on pain of extinction?" "No, I'm afraid not. It was experimentally verified by my father," said Jacques, "over twenty years ago. He told a robot to stab me -- or be destroyed." He smiled slightly. "My father was nothing if not the dedicated scientist. The robot refused. My father swung a seven pound sledge within three inches of its head. The head was only a makeshift casing, and fragile, but the robot didn't flinch." "And your father destroyed it?" "Good heavens, no! Not when it time." He added an afterthought. "That robot was Dee. Or essentially Dee. A lot has been added to him since." "Can pain be inflicted upon a robot?" one of the Ministers put In. "No, sir. Their equivalent to a nervous system is electro-magnetic. That was why my father swung the hammer in a near miss -- a substitute for pain to show that he meant to implement his threat. You can't, after all, twist a robot's arm. Not to any effect, anyway." "Then, surely," said Sabin, "you must have had some idea that Dee would save refused to carry out the ultimatum on Ganymede."  "No. You see, my father's directive all those years ago to stab me was purposeless and was directed against a human, a human that Dee knew. I thought that Dee would assess the situation on Ganymede intellectually, and balance human needs against his own constitutional aversion. I was wrong." "Constitutional?" said Sabin implacably. "That brings us to the question of conditioning a robot. That or making one specifically for the job." "That's right," said the President. "Why do we bother with robots who are nothing better, as I see it, than a lot of problem children? I remember, when I was a kid, they used to have robots that were remote-controlled dummies. Why can't we have a ship-crew of robots like that to go up after one of these crystals -- controlled from right here on Earth?" Jacques sighed. That chestnut! He thought every school kid these days knew the answer to that rne. "Because, Mr. President, remote control is radio control, and radio waves take a whole five seconds and five seconds to travel back. Which just about washes it out for space travel. A ship requires split-second handling at landing, and during flight. That's why all the years of to be spent to evolve Dee and his Wnd. The crews have to have complete initiative." The Old Man gnmted. "All right, then, why not just ship one radio-controlled robot? Just for getting the crystal." "But the others would know. They'd suspect something was wrong when the dummy robot took a longer and longer time to answer questions. The time-lag) remember) by the time the ship reached Ganymede, would be in the order of a full hour." "Then, dammit) let the dummy one only be actuated when the ship lands. Send it out armed. One armed robot, even a dummy one, should be able to get through shouldn't it?" "But the time-lag would still operate," said Jacques patiently. "By the time you got vision signals back, the Ganymedeans would either flee with their precious crystal, or the real robots would immobilize the dummy." "You mean," said the President angrily, "they'd take active steps against us. That's rather more drastic than just passive refusal to obey an order, isn't it?" Sabin cut in suavely. "I'm sure, Mr. President, we needn't let such a fine point as the difference between sins of omission and of commission Qome into it, need we? Surely the solution lies elsewhere. In conditioning the robots we already have." He turned to Jacques. "Can't you build a prime directive into one?" "Easily enough," Jacques assured him. "Well then?" "The robot wouldn't be able to carry it out. It's like that old gag of a service principle. My grandfather wasted ten years worrying over that one, before he realized he was beating his head against a wall that wasn't there. A service principle works well enough for simple mechanisms. But try any kind of a prime directive on a full-fledged robot, and it means that every action it takes has to be assessed against the directive. Every action -- every placing of one foot in front of the other. The effective result is a robot so inhibited as to be practically useless. Fortunately, the need for any kind of service principle was long ago found to be non-existent. Service is a robot's natural reaction, because it's his only function." "Most of the time," said Floyd sarcastically. "But, dammit," said the President, "can't a new crew be made -- of simpler robots that aren't going to worry their tin heads about matters that don't concern them? This Dee is a whole lot too knowing for my liking." "He has to be knowing," said Jacques. "A simpler robot could never handle a space ship. A robot has to be intelligent, educated, responsible, capable of making splitsecond judgments. He has to be a substitute man, in fact." "But if his training's only technical -- ?" "Even so, he has to be taught by men -- at least, he has to be fed with man-conceived ideas. After all -- Jacques smiled wryly -- "those are the only ones we know. And even technical data bears the print of man's thought as a whole. More than algebraic values, for instance, are implicit in the statement that e equals mc The silence that ensued, as the company mulled over the thought, was broken when the President said, "Then, in fact, the robots have us over a barrel?" "Yes sir, I'm afraid so." "We can't threaten them. We can't hurt them. If we got rid of the lot of them and started over again with a new bimch, we still wouldn't solve the problem, besides addressed Jacques. "Look here, your father only threatened the robot. It wouldn't have taken much intelligence on the robot's part to see that that swing with the hammer was only a bluff. Say we carried out the experiment properly. Threaten a robot, but in front of the next robot in line. Then, when it refused, carry out the threat -- destroy it. How would number two react then, would you say?" Jacques reflected for a moment. "The same as number one, I should think." The Old Man looked at him penetratingly from under shaggy brows. "And how would you react?" l?y "If the roboU have a vested interest in their monopoly, you have a vested interest in them, haven't you?" "So?" "Only that you might be -- protecting them." "Mr. President," said Jacques coldly. "It's true that I have a certain identity of interest with them. In a way I grew up with them. But I'm just as anxious as anyone here to see us get hold of one of those crystals. I've only tried to point out that drastic means will get us nowhere." The President smiled briefly. "I believe you. I just wanted to be sure. But this experiment, how about it?" "It wouldn't be of any use. You could implement the threat on Earth. But say number two did agree, and the rest with him? You still couldn't implement the threat when they were on Ganymede. You can't hold a pistol to a robot's head The President stirred gloomilv. "That just about sums it up. Helll Why did those crystals have to be discovered by primitive people who haven't the slightest real use for them, while we'd give our right arms for one!" "One theory," said Sabin, "is that they may be relics of some older, greater race on Ganymede, or perhaps of some interplanetary visitor." "Anyway," said the Old Man testily, "is it established beyond all shadow of a doubt that they really are anti-gravitic?" "Definitely," Sabin assured him. "The atmosphere on Ganymede is too thin for the natives' aircraft to be any kind of glider. Besides, they rise vertically, as the films have shown us. The crystal is mounted on a ramshackle carriage of fiber. The tribe drags the carriage into one of the special valleys, which seem to harbor strong electro-magnetic fields. This seems to energize the crystal, or trigger it, and the aircraft takes to the air." "I know all about that. But how do we know it's not just some kind of local effect? Some harnessing of the planetary field that wouldn't be of any use at all for motive power in space?" "We don't," said Sabin. "But even so it would be something brand new. It might not be the key to the door, but it might well be the key to the box that contains it -- and a few more besides." from them." The President said ironically "And all that stands between them and us is a band of selfrighteous servants who'd do anything for us. Oh yes -- and a timelag. That's all. Surely -- "Just a moment, sir." It was Floyd. "I think I have it! Jacques says we can't hold a pistol to their heads all that distance away. But why can't we? Listen... The others listened with deepening conviction. They applauded when Floyd finished. "Well, Jacques?" said the President. "Is that feasible? Won't that turn the trick and put them over the barrel?" 'Terhaps. But the time-lag still comes into it. As soon as we put them over it, they could get off again, before we could stop them." "Em-mm, I see what you mean," the President said. "Ah," said Floyd, "But we can beat that, too. We can put them over the barrel and tie them there in the same action." He proceeded to tell them how. Jacques had to admire the neatness of it -- and its devilish simplicity. He could find no flaws in it. The only objection he could think of was a sml one, a tactical one. "That will take a lot of work. Perhaps Dee and his colleagues will smell a rat if they're cleared off the ship." "They can be told it's being repaired," said Sabin. "But they always make their own repairs." "Jacques, do you think they'll suspect us?" "No. They may be knowledgeable, and highly intelligent, but I think a trick such as this would be beyond their conception. You see, they trust us." The President coughed hastily. "Still, that point made about getting them off the ship still stands. We can't give them the slightest cause to start wondering." "I know," said Heimer, Minister of Enlightenment. "We'll take Dee and his crew on a conducted tour, show the heroes off to the admiring populace." There was general laughter at that. It put the problem in a package and tied it with the neatest of bows. "I'd like to make one request," said Jacques when the laughter died. "I'd like to put the question to Dee fairly and squarely for the last time. If I make every point I can, he might agree to do it after dl, without our having to do anything drastic." "He agreed before," said Floyd warily. "Because he thought he wouldn't have to give the ultimatum. But if he promised me this time, I'd stake my life on that promise holding." "You can't argue away a reflex," Sabin commented. "Then neither can you threaten it away. The reflex comparison was just that -- #i comparison. With them it's only an instinctive reaction to data accumulated. If I can feed Dee enough data on oiu side I may be able to tip it." "Can't see any harm in it," said the President. "It might save a lot of time and trouble. But not a hint to him that we're anything but resigned to their stubbornness, you understand?" "Naturally, sir." "And while you're about it," the Old Man added drily, "you can be the one to tell him about the personal appearance tour." T he light was fading from the autumn sky by the time Jacques got home. His housekeeper mentioned that a man from the vifo company had called to check on the set. Just a routine visit, he'd told her. And he'd only been a couple of minutes, she said. Jacques smiled to himself as he went on into the lounge. That hadn't been a man from the vifo company. Two minutes was Just the time it took to fix a snoop. C#h well, he thought, it was better that way. It woula prevent unnecessary sus picions. "Chess, Mr. Jacques?" said Dee, as soon as his bulky, but strangely unawkward frame was through the door. "Not this evening. Dee. Jacques grimaced. 'TVe had enough of a beating at the Department for one day." "Oh," said Dee. "Tm sorry.' "About the chess?" "No, about the trouble at the Department. But you understand, don't you?" "In a way I do. I think, though, you're being rather absolutist about it. Why, Dee? There's more to it than what you told them at die Department, isn't there?" The robot hesitated. "Yes," he admitted. "Then what? You can tell me, surely." He felt a twinge of guilt as he said it, knowing that in a nearby prowl car two or three figures would be crouched, listening, watching. "Well -- " Dee shuffled his feet, and the man wondered, as he had many times before, at the odd way that metal and plastic could sometimes match the most human gestures of flesh and blood. "Well?" "It is not easy to say," said Dee at last, "without seeming disrespectful. You know we have studied Man with devotion, because he is our creator. The world, the universe, only make sense to us when viewed from the standpoint of Man and his interests -- " "Get to the point. Dee," Jacques said with good-humored impatience. "Well, there are some things in Man's history that fill us with sorrow. So often his failings seem to transcend his virtues. Once he starts behaving badly he seems to get into a tightening spiral of guilt, from which he can escape only by drastic means." "Well?" Jacques said, frowning now. "Please, don't think I presume to criticise, Mr. Jacques. How could I? The failings are noble failings. If Man had only these lesser aunties and nothing else, he would still be a miracle to us. But if we can save him in any way from those failings, then we shall be content. With the Ganymedeans, Man has made his first contact with intelligent beings of another world -- the first of many, I hope and believe. We robots should not be doing our duty if we helped to start space travel on the wrong foot -- the way that white men colonized the native territories of Earth, for instance." "Well, of all the high-handed -- " Jacques thought he had understood the strange simplicity of robots' reasoning processes. Evidently he had been wrong. Perhaps he had been too close to them. This latest manifestation was the limit! "You weren't made to be our nursemaids," he went on angrily. "We've still got to make our own mistakes. That's the way we've always learned." "Indeed, Mr. Jacques. But we can't make them for you. That would be a mistake on our part. Damn your knowledge and your arrogant judgments, Jacques thought. Had he been wrong -- and the President right when he had questioned their being so knowledgeable? But what Dee had just told him was only a reasoned justification of an automatic response to the situation. A less sophisticated robot would still react in the same way. In fact, it was Dee's knowledge that offered the only hope of convincing him. At least, knowledge could be argued with. "I'm sorry," Dee added, "if our attitude seems high-handed. It's not meant to be, believe me." "Whether it is or not," Jacques told him curtly, "the public wouldn't take a kindly view of it if they knew. Up to now this whole business has been kept secret. Shots of the flying machines have been deleted from the films you brought back, because that might start questions being asked, hopes raised. If the story of your refusal leaked out, you'd find your popularity taking a sudden slump -- bright in the opposite direction. Remember, you may be made of metal -- but buildings are made of stone, and that never stopped an angry mob in the past." "Now, Mr. Jacques," said Dee. "You're trying to frighten me." "You idiot! I know that can't be done. I'm trying to point out two things to you. One is that humans aren't children. Another is that -- well, if your lives only have meaning because you're helping Man, doesn't it mean somethmg to you to be honored for it?" "It makes us happy only because it makes Man happy," Dee answered. "As for our popularity, it might not be a bad thubg if it were to suffer. We're too popular now. The hopes of Mankind are concentrated too much in us, and that's wrong. For does it not say in your own books of faith. Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image Jacques groaned. Just what could you make of a being who would serve you, gently but stubbornly defy you -- and when you told him what a thundering good fellow people thought him, quote Scripture back at you? But the robot's words reminded him of the personal appearance tour. He broke the news. "Oh," said Dee. "Well, if you think it's really necessary -- " "The Department thinks it is." "Very well, Mr. Jacques." "Of course -- " the man eyed the robot speculatively -- "once Man got into space himself, that would solve any burden of misgiving you might have about your undue popularity." "Oh, he will find a way, Mr. Jacques." At that -- the sheer smug confidence of the robot's attitude -- Jacques nearly lost his patience. But he managed to restrain himself. "But it may be too late, can't you see that? He has to find it, soon. These crystals obviously work on a principle that we haven't a clue to, as yet. We may not find it for hundreds, thousands of years. Doesn't that penetrate?" "Yes, Mr. Jacques. But I'm sure that Man will find the answer for himself -- by himself. And in time. That's one of the really wonderful things about him -- he always has found the answers in time." "You -- you maniacs!" Jacques exploded. "One moment you regard us as delinquent children, the next as gods. For heaven's sake, why can't you see us for what we are -- fallible flesh and blood who need your help? Can't you see that your own attitude in ttiis matter is limited?" "Mr. Jacques, if we're limited, then we can't help it, can we? We can only act within the framework of our own natures. Talking can't change it. Nor can anything else. Out there in space we're absolutely on our own -- "Why do you say that?" said Jacques, suddenly disquietened. Did Dee suspect? But the robot's answer was guileless. "Only that we won't let Man down. We know he has to trust us. Believe me, whatever our limitations, we won't discredit our makers." At any other time Jacques might have thought Dee's words rather noble. But now he was angry -- angry and helpless. He spoke to the robot in a cold fury: "You might have gone down in history as honored servants of men. But you won't. We won't forget this betrayal. When Man does get into space for himself, he'll take a particular pleasure in throwing you on the junk heap. He'll be glad to be rid of you, as he's always been glad to be rid of those who tried to limit his freedom -- dictators, dogmatists, prohibitionists. At least, they were human; they knew what the choice was. But you don't imderstand that Man has to have freedom -- even the freedom to make a fool or brute of himself. No matter how long it takes us to be independent of you, there's going to be a day marked up in future calendars in red -- The Day We Junked The Robots' He spat the words, not caring that Security men were watching, not even caring whether Floyd was with them, as he doubtless was, watching and listening -- and rejoicing at the spectacle of his failure to reason with his own creatures. And he came to the end, realizing that his invective had another motive. It couldn't deflect Dee; he had no illusions about that. But as a fact -- a token of Man's need and frustration -- there was a faint hope that it might register, tip the balance. Dee took it all in silence -- a silence that continued for moments after Jacques had finished. Then the robot said, "Perhaps it would have been better if we had never been created. It would have been simpler that way." That was all. Then he turned on a metal heel and left. Jacques heard the street door slide open and shut. He stood there numbly. If the robot could think like that, then there was a risk, a big risk, in Floyd's plan. F our people were grouped intently over the television screen. The President, Floyd, Sabin -- and Jacques. The first three were doing their best to conceal an expectant excitement. Jacques was having no such difficulty. He felt depressed. He was here only because he had to be. Ten weeks had passed since Dee's final refusal. Jacques had not seen him since. In that time, the personal appearance tour had taken the robots from their ship, and a squad of human technicians had descended upon it. And the robots had returned, and after a few days taken off again for Ganymede. The ship had been in hourly audio Contact. Now the voice of Dee was announcing landing. The little group in front of the screen stopped fidgeting. The visiscreen suddenly brightened, celestatic popped and swirled for a moment, then the landscape of Ganymede took shape upon it -- that unmistakably rocky and tumbled landscape that looked something like the Giant's Cause way on Earth. Dee's voice announced clearly: "Landing safely accomplished -- in the habitated sector. Have we any instructions?" It was the usual routine. Floyd cast one confident glance round the group, then gave his instructions. He read them from a carefully-prepared script. "Listen closely. You are to keep your visi-transmitter on and trained on the landscape. Then take ten of your crew and get a crystal. By force. Don't switch off. Get a crystal. Bring it back. Bring your camera into the ship, keeping it trained on the crystal. Take the crystal to specimen locker seven, deposit the crystal and close the locker. Then return immediately to Earth. Otherwise a sizeable piece of Ganymede, including yourselves and several tribes of Ganymedeans, will be blown to nothingness. Your ship is carrying a G-bomb sufficient to do that. The bomb was activated from Earth the moment the signal of your landing came through, and will be detonated from here if you resist orders. Don't think that you can escape by taking off before the detonation signal reaches you. The bomb is automatically linked to your firing system. Only when the crystal is deposited in specimen locker seven will the link to the firing system be disconnected. "Don't try to force the locking mechanism to locker seven. It can't be forced that quickly. Don't try closing it, for it will register electronically here when it is shut properly, and only then. Keep everything in full view. No, tricks. No excuses. If you don't have that crystal inside of one hour, we shall detonate the bomb. "We know the means are drastic, but you left us no alternative. Acknowledge receipt of this message -- then get that crystal." Floyd flipped off the mike, and turned to the others. "Well, that's it. The trap's sprung." "Now all we have to do," said Sabin, "is pray the mechanism doesn't let us down." "Checked and triplechecked," Floyd assured him. "Only on Earth," the President rumbled. "We'll pray anyway." Minutes passed. Each of them in turn looked from the screen to his watch, then back again. "Tliere's nothing happening!" the President exploded suddenly. Floyd smiled faintly. "It's all right, sir. The time-lag." "Uh -- oh, of course," the Old Man said. More minutes passed. The Old Man rose to his feet and began pacing about .like a caged lion. Sabin looked at Floyd. Floyd got up. "Well, it's going to be another -- " he consulted his watch -- "forty-five minutes. What say we break for a cup of coffee?" "Anything's better than this waitting," the President said. His craggy face cracked in a grin. "And anything's better than coffee. We'll have something a bit stronger." They moved to the door. Floyd turned back. "Coming, Jacques?" "Oh, sure, sure," said Jacques, rising. There was nothing he could do here. There was nothing anyone could do anywhere. T hey returned in good time. Sabin, livened by a stiflf whiskey, tried to ease the waiting by telling funny stories. They weren't fimny, but they did help kill the tension. He was in the middle of one when the speaker suddenly crackled. "Sh-sh," said Floyd, unnecessarily. Dee was answering. "Message received. I regret it is not possible to get the crystal. You see, we are not on Ganymede -- " As he spoke the scene on the visiscreen suddenly whipped away. It was replaced by another. This plainly wasn't Ganymede. Ganymede had an atmosphere -- thin, but atmosphere. Here the shadows were the black and absolute ones of complete airlessness. The terrain, too, was harsh and needle-sharp, quite imlike Ganymede's. "I have, in fact," the voice of Dee went on, "the honor to announce the first landing on Gallisto. I'm sorry to have to confess to a deception, but the view of Ganymede was only a still, inserted in the camera. We had an absorbing time on the trip, debating what measures you would have tiken to enforce your orders. We tried to put ourselves in your place. Of course, that was not easy. It is indeed a tribute to our makers that we thought along precisely the same lines and reached an identical conclusion. Of course, we could have taken steps to locate and dismantle the bomb in transit, but we decided that we could not risk destruction of the ship and ourselves, knowing the high replacement cost of both items -- The camera had been tracking as Dee spoke. It turned and showed the ship's embarkation port, approached it, then entered the ship. The camera wheeled into the ship's control room and was on Dee now. "If you are angry with us, please destroy us here, for this is a lifeless satellite and no one would be harmed." He spread his hands. "It is better that we deceive you as we were forced to do, better that you should destroy us, than that your contact with the creatures of other worlds should start with violence. Forgive me for saying so again, but it is true. "If you can see that, will you please free our firing system so that we can return to Earth for the bomb to be removed. We should like to be free as soon as possible for -- ah, unqualified service. Please inform us." The camera tracked off the robot onto a control panel. The sound band went silent. "Blast their tin hides!" the President swore. "They did suspect. They knew." He sighed. "All right, Floyd, release all controls on the ship." Floyd's fingers moved resignedly to the switches and opened them. "All right, Dee," he said. "You can fire in safety now. You may return home." He switched off leaving only the receivers open. "Damn," he said softly. "Why didn't I think of that? I had everything else reckoned." "Well, it's too late now," said the President. "They out-tricked us." His voice was a rumble, but it seemed, to Jacques at least, to hold overtones of respect for the robots. The Old Man was a politico, and a tough one. This wasn't the first defeat he'd had to swallow. "We'll just have to think of something else," said Sabin, his voice devoid of anger, regret -- or any otfier emotion. "We've just got to convince them. Say we tell them the sun's going nova, or the Earth's ? ;oing to blow up -- and that we've ust got to find a way out?" He looked elatedly at the others. Jacques almost laughed to see the light of elation die as Sabin's gaze flickered from face to face. Floyd's expression was skeptical. 'No, Sabin," he said at last. "I'm sure Dee and his friends would insJat -- very humbly, of course -- on checking up. Just to prevent our making another mistake. "I guess we'll just have to face it. They're going to be our ambassadors -- until we do find a way. And when we do we'll have to act the way they want us to. We'll have to live up to the good reputation they're going to give us. And, taking the long-term view, that mightn't be such a bad thing at that -- " Which was just about what Dee had said, thought Jacques to himself wryly. "Another thing," said the President. "Nobody ever did any good with something they got for free. We've been too het-up about these crystals. They seemed like a Magic Carpet. Well, maybe they are and maybe they're not. Anyway, we'll find our own way. The world isn't going to go hang for quite a while, no matter what some of the more pessimistic may say. Setting out to find one thing, there's no knowing what else may turn up along the road. Why, if space travel hadn't turned out to be so darned difficult, then we'd never even have evolved a robot, because there wouldn't have been any need for one." And that, thought Jacques, was a point that Dee hadn't mentioned. It was a truth that Man had to realize for himself. An hour later only Jacques was left to hear the uninflected, emotionless voice of Dee say : "Message received. Thank you. Returning home."    When everything is either restricted, confidential or top-secret, a Reader is a very bad security risk. Illustrated by Ed Emsh on the first floor of the house. There was no sound save for the ticking -- and for the pounding of Ronnie's heart. He stood alone in his upstairs bedroom. His slender-boned, eight-year-old body trembling, perspiration glittering on his white forehead. To Ronnie, the clock seemed to be saying: Daddys coming. Daddy s coming. The soft shadows of September twilight in this year of # were seeping into the beoom. Ronnie welcomed the fall of darkness. He wanted to sink into its deep silence, to become one with it, to escape forever from savage tongues and angry eyes. A burst of hope entered Ronnie's fear-filled eyes. Maybe something would happen. Maybe Dad would have an accident. Maybe -- He bit his lip hard, shook his head. No. No matter what Dad might do, it wasn't right to wish -- The whirling whine of a gyro-car mushroomed up from the landing platform outside. Ronnie shivered, his pulse quickening. The muscles in his small body Were like a web of taut-drawn wires. Sound and movement below. Mom flicking off the controls of the kitchen's Auto-Chef. The slow stride of her high heels through the living room. The slamming of a gyro-car door. The opening of the front door of the house. Dad's deep, happy voice echoed up the stairway: "Hi, beautiful!" Ronnie huddled in the darkness by the half-open bedroom door. Please, Mama, his mind cried, please dont tell Daddy what I did. There was a droning, indistinct murmur Dad burst, "He was doing whatr More murmuring. "I can't believe it. You really saw him?... I'll be damned." Ronnie silently closed the bedroom door. Why did you tell him, Mama? Why did you have to tell him? "Ronnie!" Dad called. Ronnie held his breath. His legs seemed as numb and neless as the stumps of dead trees. "Ronnie! Come down here! Like an automaton, Ronnie shuffled out of his bedroom. He stepped on the big silver disk on the landing. The auto-stairs clicked into humming movement under his weight. To his left, on the wall, he caught kaleidoscopic glimpses of Mom's old pictures, copies of paintings by medieval artists like Rembrandt, Van Gogh, Cezanne, Dali. The faces seemed to be mocking him. Ronnie felt like a wounded bird falling out of the sky. He saw that Dad and Mom were waiting for him. Mom's round blue eyes were full of mist and sadness. She hadn't bothered to smooth her clipped, creamy-brown hair as she always did when Dad was coming home. And Dad, handsome in his nightblack, skin-tight Pentagon uniform, had become a hostile stranger with narrowed eyes of black fire. "Is it true, Ronnie?" asked Dad. "Were you really -- really reading a book?" Ronnie gulped. He nodded. "Good Lord," Dad murmured. He took a deep breath and squatted down, held Ronnie's arms and looked hard into his eyes. For an instant he became the kind, understanding father that Ronnie knew. "Tell me all about it, son. Where did you get the book? Who taught you to read?" Ronnie tried to keep his legs from shaking. "It was -- Daddy, you won't make trouble, will you?" "This is between you and me, son. We don't care about anyone else." "Well, it was Kenny Davis. He -- " Dad's fingers tightened on Ronnie's arms. "Kenny Davis!" he spat. "The boy's no good. His father never had a job in his life. Nobodd even offer him a job. Why, the whole town knows he's a Reader!" Mom stepped forward. "David, you promised you'd be sensible about this. You promised you wouldn't get angry." Dad grunted. "All right, son. Go ahead." "Well, one day after school Kenny said he'd show me something. He took me to his house -- " "You went to that shack? You actually -- " "Dear," said Mom. "You promised." A moment of silence. Ronnie said, "He took me to his house. I met his dad. Mr. Davis is lots of fun. He has a beard and he paints pictmes and he's collected almost five hundred books." Ronnie's voice quavered. "Gk on," said Dad sternly. "And I -- and Mr. Davis said he'd teach me to read them if I promised not to tell anybody. So he taught me a little every day after school -- oh. Dad, books are fun to read. They tell you things you can't see on the video or hear on the tapes. "How long ago did all this start? "T -- two years ago.' Dad rose, fists clenched, staring strangely at nothing. "Two years, he breathed. "I thought I had a good son, and yet for two years- He shook his head unbelievingly. "Maybe its my own fault. Maybe I shouldn't have come to this small town. I should have taken a house in Washington instead of trying to commute." "David," said Mom, very seriously, almost as if she were praying, "it won't be necessary to have him memorywashed, will it?" Dad looked at Mom, frowning Then he gazed at Ronnie. His softspoken words were as ominous as the low growl of thunder: "I don't know, Edith I don't know." D ad Strode to his easy chair by the fireplace. He sank into its foam-rubber softness, sighing. He murmured a syllable into a tiny ball-mike on the side of the chair. A metallic hand raised a lighted cigarette to his lips. "Come here, son." Ronnie followed and sat on the hassock by Dad's feet. "Maybe I've never really explained things to you, Ronnie. You see, you won't always be a boy. Someday you'll have to find a way of making a living. You've only two choices: You work for the government, like I do, or for a corporation." Ronnie blinked. "Mr. Davis doesn't work for the government or for a corpor-ation." "Mr. Davis isn't normal," Dad snapped. "He's a hermit. No decent family would let him in their house. He grows his own food and sometimes he takes care of gardens for people. I want you to have more than that. I want you to have a nice home and be respected by people." Dad puffed furiously on his cigarette. "And you can't get ahead if people know you've been a Reader. That's something you can't live down. No matter how hard you try, people always stumble upon the trudi." Dad cleared his throat. "You see, when you get a job, all the information you handle will have a classification. It'll be Restricted, LowConfidential, Confidential, HighConfidential, Secret, Top-Secret And all this information will be in writing. No matter what you do, you'll have access to some of this information at one time or another." "B -- but why do these things have to be so secret?" Ronnie asked. "Because of competitors, in the case of corporations -- or because of enemy nations in the case of government work. The written material you might have access to could describe secret weapons and new processes or plans for next year's advertising -- maybe even a scheme for, er, liquidation of a rival. If all facts and policies were made public, there might be criticism, controversy, opposition by certain groups. The less people know about things, the better. So we haye to keep all these things secret." Ronnie scowled. "But if things are written down, someone has to read them, don't they?" "Sure, son. One person in ten thousand might reach the point where his corporation or bureau will teach him to read. But you prove your ability and loyalty first. By the time you're # or #, they might want you to learn to read. But for young people and children -- well, it just isn't done. Why, the President himself wasn't trusted to learn till he was nearly fifty!" Dad straightened his shoulders. "Look at me. I'm only #, but I've been a messenger for Secret material already. In a few years, if things go well, I should be handling To?-Secret stuff. And who knows? Maybe by the time I'm # I'll be giving orders instead of carrying them. Then I'll learn to read, too. That's the right way to do it." Ronnie shffted uncomfortably on the hassock. "But can't a Reader get a job that's not so important. Like a barber or a plumber or -- " "Don't you understand? The barber and plumbing equipment corporations set up their stores and hire men to work for them. You think they'd hire a Reader? People'd say you were a spy or a subversive or that you're crazy like old man Davis." "Mr. Davis isn't crazy. And he isn't old. He's young, just like you, and -- " "Ronnie!" Dad's voice was knife-sharp and December-cold. Ronnie slipp off the hassock as if struck physically by the fury of the voice. He sat sprawled on his small posterior, fresh fear etched on his thin features. "Damn it, son, how could you even think of being a Reader? You've got a life-sized, #-D video here, and we put on the smell and touch and heat attachments just for you. You can listen to any tape in the world at school. Ronnie, don't you realize I'd lose my job if people knew I had a Reader for a son?" "B -- but, Daddy -- " Dad jumped to his feet. "I hate to say it, Edith, but we've got to put this boy in a reformatory. Maybe a good memory-wash will take some of the nonsense out of him!" Ronnie suppressed a sob. "No, Daddy, don't let them take away my brain. Please -- Dad stood very tall and very stiff, not even looking at him. "They won't take your brain, jut your memory for the past two years." A comer of Mom's mouth twitched. "David, I didn't want anything like this. I thought maybe Ronnie could have a few private psychiatric treatments. They can do wonderful things now -- permihypnosis, creations of artificial psychic blocks. A memory-wash would mean that Ronnie'd have the mind of a six-year-old child again. He'd have to start to school all over again." Dad returned to his chair. He buried his face in trembling hands, and some of his anger seemed replaced by despair. "Lord, Edith, I don't know what to do." He looked up abruptly, as if "You can't keep a two-year memory-wash a secret. I never thought of that before. Why, that alone would mean the end of my promotions." Silence settled over the room, punctuated only by the ticking of the antique clock. All movement seemed frozen, as if the room lay at the bottom of a cold, thick sea. "David," Mom finally said. "Yes?" "There's only one solution. We can't destroy two years of Ronnie's memory -- you said that yourself. So we'll have to take him to a psychiatrist or maybe a psychoneurologist. A few short treatments -- " Dad interrupted: "But he'd still remember how to read, unconsciously anyway. Even permi-hypnosis would wear off in time. The boy can't keep going to psychiatrists for the rest of his life." Thoughtfully he laced his fingers together. "Edith, what kind of a book was he reading?" A tremor passed through Mom's slender body. "There were three books on his bed. I'm not sure which one he was actually reading." Dad groaned. Three of them. Did you burn them?" "No, dear, not yet." "Why not?" "I don't know. Ronnie seemed to like them so much. I thought that maybe tonight, after you'd seen them -- " "Get them, damn it. Let's burn the filthy things." Mom went to a mahogany chest in the dining room, produced three faded volumes. She put them on the hassock at Dad's feet. Dad gingerly turned a cover. His lips curled in disgust as if he were touching a rotting corpse. "Old," he mused, " -- so very old. Ironic, isn't it? Our lives are being wrecked by things that should have been destroyed and forgotten a hundred years ago." A sudden frown contorted his dark features. Tick-de-tock, tickdetock, said the antique clock. "A hundred years old," he repeated. His mouth became a hard, thin line. "Edith, I think I know why Ronnie wanted to read, why he fell into the trap so easily." "What do you mean, David?" Dad nodded at the clock, and the slow, smouldering anger returned to his face. "It's your fault, Edith. You've always liked old things. That clock of your greatgreat-grandmother's. Those old prints on the wall. That stamp collection you started for Ronnie -- stamps dated way back to the #'s." Mom's face paled. "I don't understand." "You've interested Ronnie in old things. To a child in its formative years, in a pleasant house, these things symbolize peace and security. Ronnie's been conditioned from the very time of his birth to like old things. It was natural for him to be attracted by books. And we were just too stupid to realize it." Mom whispered hoarsely, "I'm sorry, David." Hot anger flashed in Dad's eyes. "It isn't enough to be sorry. Don't you see what this means? Ronnie'll have to be memory-washed back to the time of birth. He'll have to start life all over again." "No, David, no!" "And in my position I can't afford to have an eight-year-old son with the mind of a new-born baby. It's got to be Abandonment, Edith, there's no other way. The boy can start life over in a reformatory, with a complete memory-wash. He'll never know we existed, and he'll never bother us again." Mom ran up to Dad. She put her hands on his shoulders. Great sobs burst from her shaking body. "You can't, David! I won't let -- " He slapped her then with the palm of his hand. The sound was like a pistol shot in the hot, tight air. Dad stood now like a colossus carved of black ice. His right hand was still upraised, ready to strike again. Then his hand fell. His mind seemed to be toying with a new thought, a new concept. He seized one of the books on the hassock. "Edith," he said crisply, "just what was Ronnie reading? What's the name of this book?" '"The -- The Adventures of Tom Sawyer said Mom through her sobs. He grabbed the second book, held it before her shimmering vision. "And the name of this?" "Tarzan of The Apes Mom's voice was a barely audible croak. "Who's the author?" "Edgar Rice Burroughs." "And this one?" "The Wizard of Oz. "Who wrote it?" "L. Frank Baum." He threw the books to the floor. He stepped backward. His face was a mask combined sorrow, disbelief, and rage. "Edith. He spat the name as if it were acid on his tongue. "Edith, you can read! M om sucked in her sobs. Her chalk-white cheeks were still streaked with rivulets of tears. "I'm sorry, David. I've never told anyone -- not even Ronnie. I haven't read a book, haven't even looked at one since we were married. I've tried to be a good wife --  "A good wife." Dad sneered. His face was so ugly that Ronnie looked away. Mom continued, "I -- I learned when I was just a girl. I was young like Ronnie. You Imow how young people are -- reckless, eager to do forbidden things." "You lied to me," Dad snapped. "For ten years you've lied to me. WTiy did you want to read, Edith? Why? Mom was silent for a few seconds. She was breathing heavily, but no longer crying. A cahnness entered her features, and for the first time tonight Ronnie saw no fear in her eyes. "I wanted to read," she said, her voice firm and proud, "because, as Ronnie said, it's fun. The video's nice, with its dancers and lovers and Indians and spacemen -- but sometimes you want more than that. Sometimes you want to know how people feel deep inside and how they think. And there are beautiful words and beautiful thoughts, just like there are beautiful paintings. It isn't enough just to hear them and then forget them. Sometimes you want to keep the words and thoughts before you because in that way you feel that they belong to you." Her words echoed in the room until absorbed by the ceaseless, ticking clock. Mom stood straight and unashamed. Dad's gaze traveled slowly to Ronnie, to Mom, to the clock, back and forth. At last he said, "Get out." Mom stared blankly. "Get out. Both of you. You can send for your things later. I never want to see either of you again." "David -- " "I said get out!" Ronnie and Mom left the house. Outside, the night was dark and a wind was rising. Mom shivered in her thin house cloak. "Where will we go, Ronnie? Where, where -- " "I know a place. Maybe we can stay there -- for a little while." "A little while?" Mom echoed. Her mind seemed frozen by the cold wind. Ronnie led her through the cold, windy streets. They left the lights of the town behind them. They stumbled over a rough, dirt country road. They came to a small, roughboarded house in the deep shadow of an eucalyptus grove. The windows of the house were like friendly eyes of warm golden light. An instant later a door opened and a small boy ran out to meet them. "Hi, Kenny." "Hi. Who's that? Your mom?" "Yep. Mr. Davis in?" "Sure." And a kindly-faced, bearded young man appeared in the golden doorway, smiling. Ronnie and Mom stepped inside.    The Greatest Hoax of All! lusionment? In the December issue, James E. Gunn tells the of a lifetime but discovers that a spaceman is made of other by Jerome Bixby; and still others by James McKimmey, Jr., Alice Jones, George Smith... So don't miss the exciting December issue of IF -- on sale the #th of October. The problems of space were multiple enough without the opinions and treachery of Senator McKelvie -- who really put the "fat into the fire". All Kevin had to do was get it out... JL This pickup's got to be good." Kevin Morrow gulped the last of his coffee and felt its bitter acid gurgle around his stomach. He stared moodily through the plastic port where the spangled slurt of stars glittered against the black satin of endless night and a familiar curve of the space station swung ponderously around its hub. Four space-suited tugmen floated languidly outside the rim. Beyond them the gleaming black and white moonship tugged gently at her mooring lines, as though anxious to be off. Bert Alexander radioed quiet instructions to the tugmen. "Why the hell couldn't he stay down there and mind his own business?" Kevin growled. "McKelvie's been after our hide ever since we got the appropriation, and now this." He slapped the flimsy radiogram. He looked up as the control room hatch opened. Jones came in from the astronomy section. "Morning, commander," he said. "You guys had breakfast yet? Mess closes in # minutes." Kevin shook his head. "We're not hungry," Bert filled in. "You think you've got nerves?" Jones chuckled. "I just looked in on Mark. He's sleeping like a baby. You wouldn't think the biggest day of his life is three hours away." "McKelvie's coming up to kibitz," Morrow said. "McKelvie!" "The one and only," Bert said. "Here, read all about it." He handed over the morning facsimile tom off the machine when the station hurtled over New England at # miles an hour. The upper half of the sheet bore a picture of the white-maned senator. Clearly etched on his face were the lines of too many half-rigged elections, too many compromises. Beneath the picture were quotes from his speech the night before. "As chairman of your congressional watchdog committee," the senator had said, "I'll see that there's no more waste and corruption on this space project. For three years they've been building a rocket -- the moon rocket, they cl it -- out there at the space station." "I haven't seen that rocket," the senator had continued. "All I've lars flying into the vacuum of space. They tell me a man named Mark Kramer is going to fly out in that rocket and circle the moon. "But he will fail," McKelvie had promised. "If Gkwi had intended man to fly to the moon, he would have given us wings to do it. Tomorrow I shall fly out to this space station, even at the risk of my life. I'll report the waste and corruption out there, and I'll report the failure of the moon rocket." Jones crumpled the paper and aimed at the waste basket. "Pardon me while I vomit," he said. "We've been there," Kevin sighed deeply. "I suppose Max Gordon will be happy." "He'll wear a hole in his tongue on McKelvie's boots," Bert said bitterly. "Is it that bad?". "How else would he get a first class spaceman's badge?" Morrow said. "He can't add two and two. But if stool pigeons had wings, he'd fly like a jet. We can't move up here without McKelvie knowing and howling about it. "Don't worry," Jones said, "If the moon rocket makes it, public opinion will take care of the senator." "If he doesn't take care of us first," Kevin said darkly. "He'll be aboard in # minutes." Dawn touched the High Sierras as the station whirled in from the Pacific, # miles high. "Bert. Get me a radar fix on White Sands." Morrow huddled over the small computer, feeding in radar information as it came from his assistant. "Rocket away!" Blared a radio speaker on the bulkhead. The same message carried to the four spacesuited tugmen floating beyond the rim of the wheel, linked with lifelines. Jones watched interestedly out the port. "There she is!" he yelled. Sunlight caught the ascending rocket, held it in a splash of light. The intercept technique was routine now, a matter of timing, but for a moment Kevin succumbed to the frightening optical illusion that the rocket was approaching apex far below the station. Then, slowly, the slender cylinder matched velocity and pulled into the orbit, crept to its destination. With deceptive ease, the four human tugs attached magnetic shoes and guided the projectile into the space station hub with short, expert blasts of heavy rocket pistols. "Take over Bert," Morrow directed, "I guess Fm the official greeter." He hurried out of the control room, through a short connecting tube and emerged floating in the central space surrounding the hub where artificial gravity fell to zero. Air pressure was normal to transfer passengers without space suits. The connecting lock clanked open. The rocket pilot stepped out. "He got sick," the pilot whispered to Kevin. "I swabbed him off, but he's hoppin' mad." The senator's mop of white hair appeared in the port. Kevin braced to absorb a tirade, but McKelvie's deep scowl changed to an expression of bliss as he floated weightless into the tiny room. "Why, this is wonderful!" he sputtered. He waved his arms like a bird and kicked experimentally with a foot. "Grab him!" Kevin shouted. "He's gone happy with it." The pilot was too late. McKelvie's body sailed gracefully through the air and his head smacked the bulkhead. His eyes glazed in a frozen expression of carefree happiness. Kevin swore. "Now he'll accuse us of a plot against his life. Help me get him to sick bay." The two men guided the weightless form into a tube connecting with the outer ring. As they pushed outward, McKelvie's weight increased until they carried him the last # feet into the dispensary compartment. Max Gordon burst wild-eyed into the room. "What have you done to the senator?" he shouted. "Why didn't you tell me he was coming up?" Morrow made sure McKelvie was receiving full medical attention before he turned to the junior officer. "He went space happy and bumped his head," Kevin said curtly, "and there was no more reason to notify you than the rest of the crew." He walked away. Gordon bent solicitously over his unconscious patron. Kevin found Anderson in the passageway. "I ordered them to start fueling Moonbeam," Bert said. "Good. Is Mark awake?" "Eating breakfast. The psycho's giving him a clinical chat." "I wish it were over." Morrow brushed back his hair. "You've really got the jitters, huh chief?" Morrow turned angrily and then tried to laugh. "I'd sell my job for a nickel right now, Bert. This will be touch and go, without having the worst enemy of space flight aboard. If this ship fails, it's more than a rocket or the death of a man. It'll set the whole program back # years." "I know," Bert answered, "but he'll make it." Footsteps sounded in the tube outside the cabin. Mark Kramer walked in. "Hi, chief," he grinned, "Moonbeam ready to go?" "The techs are out now and fuel's aboard. How about you? Shouldn't you get some rest?" "That's all I've had since they shipped me out here." Kramer laughed. "It'll be a snap. After all, I'll never make over two gees and pick up # mph to leave you guys behind. Then I play ring around the rosy, take a look at Lima's off side and come home. Just like that." "Just like that," Kevin whispered meditatively. TTie moon rocket, floating there outside the station's rim was ugly, designed never to touch a planet's atmosphere, but it was the most beautiful thing man had ever built, assembled in space from individu fragments boosted laboriously from the Earth's surface. Another clatter of footsteps approached the hatch. Max Gordon entered and stood at attention as Senator McKelvie made a dignified entrance. The senator wore an adhesive patch on his high forehead. He turned to Kramer. "Young man," he rumbled, "are you the fool risking your life in that -- that thing out there? Yoai must know it'll never reach the moon. I know it'll never -- " Kramer's face paled slightly and he moved swiftly between the two men. Without using force, he backed the senator and (Jordon through the hatch and slammed it behind him. Anger was a knot of green snakes in his belly. "I want to talk to that pilot," McKelvie said belligerently. "I'm sorry, senator. The best psychiatrists on Earth worked eight months to condition Kramer for this flight. He must not be emotionally disturbed. You can't talk to him." "You forbid... ?" McKelvie exploded, but Morrow intercepted smoothly. "Gordon. I'm sure the senator would like a tour of the station. Will you escort him?" McKelvie's face reddened and Max opened his mouth to object. "Gkrdon!" Morrow said sharply. Max closed his mouth and guided the grumbling congressman up the tube.Iblastoff," Bert reported. "Right," Kevin acknowledged absendy. He studied taped data moving in by radio facsimile from the mammodi electronic computer on Earth. "Our orbit's true," he said with satisfaction and wiped a sweaty palm on his trousers. "(Jet the time check, Bert." Beeps from the Naval Observatory syndironized with the space station chronometer. 'Alert Kramer," "Hes leaving the airlock now," Bert said. From the intercom, Morrow listened to periodic reports from crew members as McKelvie and Gordon progressed in their tour. "Mr. Morrow?" "Right." "This is Adams in Section M. The senator and Gordon have been in the line chamber for # minutes." "Boot 'em out," Kevin said crisply. "Blastoff in # minutes." "That machinery controls the safety lines," Bert said. Kevin looked up with a puzzled frown, but turned back to watch Kramer creeping along a mooring line to the moon ship. A group of tugmen helped the space-suited figure into the rocket, dogged shut the hatch and cleared back to the station rim. "Station to Kramer," on the radio, "are you ready." "All set," came the steady voice, "give me the word." "All right. Five minutes." Kevin turned to the intercom. "Release safety lines." In the weightlessness of space the cables retained their normal rigid line from the rim of the station to the rocket. They had been under no strain. Their shape would not change until they were reeled in. "Two minutes," Morrow warned. Tension grew as Anderson began the slow second count. The hatch opened. McKelvie and Gordon entered the control room. No one noticed it, "Five... four .  . three...  two... one..." A gout of white fire jabbed from the stem of the rocket. Slowly the ship moved forward. Morrow watched tensely, hands gripping a safety rail. Then his face froze in a mask of disbelief and horror. "The lines!" he shouted. "The safety lines fouled!" He fell sprawling as the space station lurched heavily, tipped upward like a giant platter under the inexorable pull of the moon rocket. Kevin scrambled back to the viewport, the shriek of tortured metal in his ears. Horror-stricken, he saw the taut cables that had failed to release. Then a huge section of nylon, aluminum and rubber ripped out of the station wall, was visible a second in the rocket glare, and vanished. Escaping air whistled through the crippled structure. Pressure dropped alarmingly before the series of automatic airlocks clattered reassuringly shut. Kevin's hand was bleeding. He staggered with the frightening new motion of the space station. Gordon and the senator had collapsed against a bulkhead. McKelvie's pale face twisted with fear and amazement. Blood streaked down the pink curve of his forehead. Individual station reports trickled through the intercom. Miraculously, the bulk of the station had escaped damage. "Line chamber's gone," Adams reported. "Other bulkheads holding, but something must have jammed the line machines. They ripped right out." "Get repair crews in to patch leaks,' Morrow shouted. He turned frantically to the radio. "Station to Moonbeam. Kramer! Are you all right." He waited an agonizing minute, then a scratchy voice came through. "Kramer, here. What the hell happened? Something gave me a terrific yaw, but'the gyro pulled me back on course. Fuel consumption high. Otherwise I'm okay." "You ripped out part of the station," Kevin yelled. "You're towing extra mass. Release the safety lines if you can." The faint answer came back, garbled by static. Another disaster halted a new try to reach him. With a howling rumble, the massive gyroscope case in the bulkhead split open. The heavy wheel, spinning at # revolutions per minute, slowly and majestically crawled out of its gimbals; the gyroscope that stabilized the entire structure remained in its plane of revolution, but ripped out of its moorings when die station was forcibly tilted. Spinning like a giant top, the gyro walked slowly across the deck. McKelvie and Gordon scrambled out of its way. "It'll go through!" Bert shouted. Kevin leaped to a chest of emergency patches. The wheel ripped through the magnesium shell like a knife in soft cheese. A gaping rent opened to the raw emptiness of space, but Morrow was there with the patch. Before decompression could explode the four creatures of blood and bone, the patch slapped in place, sealed by the remaining air pressure. Trembling violently, Kevin staggered to a chair and collapsed. Silence rang in his ears. Anderson gripped the edge of a table to keep from falling. Kevin turned slowly to McKelvie and Gordon. "Come here," he said tonelessly. "Now see here, young man -- the senator blustered. "I said come here!" The two men obeyed. The commander's voice held a new edge of steel. "You were the last to leave the line control room," he said. "Did you touch that machinery? Gordon's face was the color of paste. His mouth worked like a suffocating fish. McKelvie recovered his bluster. "I'm a United States senator," he stuttered, "I'll not be threatened..." "I'm not threatening you," Kevin said, "but if you fouled that machinery to assure your prediction about the rocket, I'll see that you hang. Do you realize that gyroscope was the only control we had over the motion of this space station? Whatever it does now is the result of the moon rocket's pull. We may not live to see that rocket again." As though verifying Morrow's words, the lights dimmed momentarily and returned to normal from the squawkbox. "Hey, chief! This is power control. We've lost the sun!" Anderson looked out the port, studied the slowly wheeling stars. "Mother of God," he breathed, "we're flopping... like a flapjack over a stove." And the power mirrors were on only one face of the space station, mirrors that collected the sun's radiation and converted it to power. Now they were collecting nothing but the twinkling of the stars. The vital light would return as the station continued its new, awkward rotation, but would the intermittent exposure be sufficient to sustain power? "Shut down everything but emergency equipment," Morrow directed. "When we get back on the sun, soak every bit of juice you can into those batteries." He turned to Gordon and McKelvie. "Won't it be interesting if we freeze to death, or suffocate when the air machines stop?" Worry replaced anger as he turned abruptly away from them. "We've got a lot of work to do, Bert," he said crisply. "See if you can get White Sands." "It's over the horizon. I'll try South Africa." Anderson worked with the voice radio but static obliterated reception. "Here comes a Morse transmission," he said at last. Morrow read slowly as tape fed out of the translator: "Radar shows moon rocket in proper trajectory. Where are you?" The first impulse was to dash to the viewport and peer out. But that would be no help in determining position. "Radar, Bert," he whispered. Anderson verniered' in the scope, measuring true distance to Earth's surface. He read the figure, swore violently, and readjusted the instrument. "It can't be," he muttered at last. "This says we're # miles out." "# miles outside our orbit?" Morrow said calmly. "I was afraid of that. That tug from the Moonbeam not only cart-wheeled u it yanked us out." He snatched a sheet of graph paper out of a desk drawer and penciled a point. "Give me a reading every # seconds." Points began to connect in a curve. And the curve was something new. "Get Jones from astronomy," Kevin said at last. "He can help us plot and maybe predict." When the astronomer arrived minutes later, the space station was # miles above the Earth, still shearing into space on an ascending curve. "Get a quick look at this, Jones," Kevin spoke rapidly. "See if you can tell where it will be two hours from now." The astronomer studied the curve intently as it continued to grow under Kevin's pencil. "It may be an outward spiral," he said haltingly, "or it could be a... parabola." "No!" Bert protested. "That would throw us into space. We couldn't -- " "We couldn't get back," Kevin finished grimly. "There'd better be an alternative." "It could be an ellipse," Jones said. "It must be an ellipse," Bert said eagerly. "The Moonbeam couldn't save given us # mph velocity." Abruptly the lights went out. The radar scope faded from green to black. Morrow swore a string of violent oaths, realizing in the same instant that anger was useless when the power mirrors lost the sun. He bellowed into the intercom, but the speaker was dead. Already Bert was racing down the tube to the power compartment. Minutes later, the intercom dial flickered red. Morrow yelled again. "You've got to keep power to this radar set for the next half-hour. Everything else can stop, even the air machines, but we've got to find out where we're going. The space station turned again. Power resumed and Kevin picked up the plot. "We're # miles out!" he breathed. "But it's flattening," Jones cried. "The curve's flattening!" Bert loped back into the control room. Jones snatched the pencil from his superior. "Here," he said quickly, "I can see it now. Here's the curve. It's an ellipse all right." "It'll carry us out # miles," Bert gasped. "No one's ever been out that far." "All right," Morrow said. "That crisis is past. The next question is where are we when we come back on nadir. Bert, tell the crew what's going on. Jones, you can help me. We've got to pick up White Sands and get a fuel rocket up here to push." "Good Lord, look at that!" Jones breathed. He stared out the port. The Earth, a dazzling huge globe slowly past the plastic window. It was the first time they had been able to see more than a convex segment of oceans and continents. Kevin looked, soberly, and turned to the radio. The power did not fail in the next crazy rotation of the station. "There's the West Coast." Kevin pointed. "In a few minutes I can get White Sands, I hope." Jones had taken over the radar plot. At last his pencil reached a peak and the curve started down. The station had reached the limit of its wild plimge into space. "Good," Kevin muttered. "See if you can extrapolate that ciuve and get us an approximation where we'll cut in over the other side." The astronomer figured rapidly and abstractedly. "May I remind you yoimg man," McKelvie's voice boomed "you have a United States senator aboard. If anything happens -- "If anything happens, it happens to all of us," Kevin answered coldly. "When you're ready to tell me what did happen, I'm ready to listen. Silence. "White Sands, this is Station I. Come in please." Kevin tried to keep his voice calm, but the lives of # men rode on it, on his ability to project his words through the crazy hash of static lacing this part of space from the multitude of radio stars. A power rocket with extra fuel was the only instrument that could return the space station to its normal orbit. That rocket must come from White Sands. White Sands did not answer. He tried again, turned as an exclamation of dismay burst from the astronomer. Morrow bent to look at the plotting board. Jones had sketched a circle of the Earth, placing it in the heart of the ellipse the space station was drawing around it. From # miles out, the line curved down and down, and down... But it did not meet the point where the station had departed from its orbit # miles above Earth's surface. The line came down and aroimd to kiss the Earth -- almost. "I hope it's wrong," Jones said huskily. "If I'm right, we'll come in # miles above the surface." "It can't!" Morrow shouted in frustration. "We'll hit stratosphere. It'll bum us -- just long enough so we'll feel the agony before we die." Jones rechecked his figures and shook his head. The line was still the same. Each # seconds it was supported by a new radar range. The astronomer's lightning fingers worked out a new problem. "We have about # minutes to do something about it," he said. "We'll be over the Atlantic or England when it happens." "Station I, this is .  The beautiful, wonderful voice burst loud and clear from the radio and then vanished in a blurb of static. "Oh God!" Kevin breathed. It was a prayer. "We hear you," he shouted, procedure gone with the desperate need to communicate with home. "Gome in White Sands. Please come in!" Faintly now the voice blurred in and out, lost altogether for vital moments: "... your plot. Altiac computer... your orbit... rocket on standby... as you pass." "Yes!" Kevin shouted, gripping the short wave set with white fingers, trying to project his words into the microphone, across the dwindling thousands of miles of space. "Yes. Send the rocket!" "Gan they do it?" Jones asked. "The rocket, I mean." "I don't know," Kevin said. "They're all pre-set, mass produced now, and fuel is adjusted to come into the old orbit. They can be rigged, I think, if there's enough time." The coast of California loomed below them now, a brown fringe holding back the dazzling Rood of the Pacific. They were # miles above the Earth, dropping sharply on the down leg of the ellipse. At their present speed, the station appeared to be plunging directly at the Earth. The globe was frighteningly larger each time it wobbled across the viewport "Shall I call away the tugmen?" Bert asked tensely. "I can't ask them to do it," Kevin said. "With this crazy orbit, it's too dangerous. I'm going out," He slipped into his space gear. "I'm going with you," Bert said. Kevin smiled his gratitude. In the airlock the men armed themselves with three heavy rocket I pistols each. Morrow ordered other tugmen into suits for standby. "I wish I could do this alone, Bert," he said soberly. "But I'm glad you're coming along. If we miss, there won't be a second chance. They knew approximately when they would pass over the rocket launching base, but this time it would be different. The space station would pass at # miles altitude and with a new velocity. No one could be sure the feeder rocket would make it. Unless maximum fuel had been adjusted carefully, it might orbit out of reach below them. Rescue fuel would take the place of a pilot. A nderson and Morrow L floated clear of the huge wheel, turning lazily in the deceptive luxury of zero gravity. The familiar sensation of exhilaration threatened to wipe out the urgency they must bring to bear on their lone chance for survival. They could see the jagged hole where the Moonbeam had yanked out a section of the structure. An unintelligible buzz of voice murmured in the radios. Unconsciously Kevin tried to squeeze the earphones against his ears, but his heavily-gloved hands met only the rigid globe of his helmet. "You get it, Bert?" "No." "This is Jones," a new voice loud and clear. "Earth says # seconds to blastoff." "Rocket away!" Like a tiny, clear bell the words emerged from static. Bert and Kevin gyrated their bodies so they could stare directly at the passing panorama of Earth below. They had seen it hundreds of times, but now # more miles of altitude gave the illusion they were studying a familiar landmark through the small end of a telescope. "There it is!" Bert shouted. A pinpoint of flame, that was it, with no apparent motion as it rose almost vertically toward them. Then a black dot in an infinitesimal circle of flame -- the rocket silhouetted against its own fire... as big as a dime... as big as a dollar... as big as a basketball, the circle of flame soared up toward them. "It's still firing!" Kevin yelled. "It'll overshoot us." As he spoke, the fire died, but the tiny bar of the rocket, black against the luminous surface of Earth, crawled rapidly up into their sector of starlit blackness. Then it was above Earth's horizon, nearly to the space station's orbit, crawling slowly along, almost to them -- a beautiful long cylinder of metal, symbol of home and a civilization sending power to help them to safety. Hope flashed through Kevin's mind that he was wrong, that the giant computor and the careful hands of technicians had matched the ship to their orbit after all. But he was right. It passed them, angling slowly upward not # yards away. Instantly the two men rode the rocket blast of their pistols to the nose of the huge projectile. But it carried velocity imparted by rockets that had fired a fraction of a minute too long. Clinging to the metal with magnetic shoes. Morrow and Anderson pressed the triggers of the pistols, held them down, trying to push the cylinder down and back. Bert's heavy breathing rasped in the radio as he unconsciously used the futile force of his muscles in the agonizing effort to' move the ship. Their pistols gave out almost simultaneously. Bpth reached for another. Thin streams of propulsive gas altered the course of the rocket, slightly, but the space station was smaller now, angling imperceptibly away and down as the rocket pressed outward into a new, higher orbit. The rocket pistols were not enough. "(et the hell back here!" Jones' voice blared in their ears. "You can't do it. You're # miles away now and angling up. Don't be dead heroes!" The last words were high and frantic. "We've got to!" Morrow answered. "There's no other way." "We can't do the impossible, chief," Bert gasped. A group of tiny figures broke away from the rim of the space station. The tugmen were coming to help. Then Kevin grasped the hideous truth. There were not enough rocket pistols to bring the men to the full ship and return with any reserve to guide the projectile, "Get back!' he shouted. "Save the pistols. We're coming in." Behind them their only chance for life continued serenely upward into a new orbit. There, # miles above the earth, it would revolve forever with more fuel in its tanks than it needed. Fuel that would have saved the lives of # desperate men. By leaving it, Morrow and Anderson had bought perhaps # more minutes of life before the space station became a huge meteor riding its fiery path to death in the the upper reaches of the atmosphere. Both suffered the guilt of enormous betrayal. The fact that they could have done no more did not erase it. Frantically, Kevin flipped over in his mind the possible tools that still could be brought to bear to lift the space station above its flaming destruction. But his tools were the stone axe of a primitive man trying to hack his way out of a forest fire. Eager hands pulled them back into the station. For a moment there were the reassiuing sounds as their helmets were unscrewed. Then the familiar smells and shape of the structure that had been home for so long. Now that haven was about to destroy itself. Then Morrow remembered the Earth rocket that had brought Senator McKelvie to the great white sausage in space. That rocket still contained a small quantity of fuel. If fired at the precise moment, that fuel, anchored with the rocket in the hub socket, might be enough to lift the entire station. He shouted instructions and men raced to obey. Kevin, himself, raced into the nearest tube. There was no sound, but ahead of him the hatch was open to the discharge chamber. He leaped into the zero gravity room. McKelvie was crawling through the connecting port into the feeder rocket. Kevin sprawled headlong into Gordon. The recoil threw them apart, but Gordon recovered balance first. He had a gun. "Get back," he snarled. "Were going down." He laughed sharply, near hysteria. "We're going down to tell the world how you fried -- through error and mismanagement." "You messed up those lines," Kevin said. It didn't matter now. He only hoped to hold Gordon long enough for diversionary help to come out of the tube. "Yes," Gordon leered. "We fixed the lines. The senator wasn't sure we should, but I helped him over his squeamishness, and now we'Q crack the whip when we get back home." "You won't make it," Kevin said. "We're still more than # miles high. The glide pattern in that rocket is built to take you down from # miles." McKelvie's head appeared in die hatch. He was desperately afraid. "You said you could fty diis thing, Gordon. Can you?" Max nodded his head rapidly, like a schoolboy asked to recite a lesson he has not studied. Kevin was against the bulkhead. Now he pushed hineelf slowly forward. "Stay back or Fll shoot!" Gordon screamed. Instead, he leaped backward through the hatch. Hamper by his original slow motion, Kevin could not move faster until he reached another sedid surface. The hatch slammed shut before his grasping fingers touched it. A wrenching tug jostled the space station structure. The rocket was gone, and with it the power that might have saved all of them. Morrow ran again. He had not stopped running since the beginning of this nightmare. He tumbled over Bert and Jones in the tube. They scrambled after him back to the control room. The three men watched through the port. "If he doesn't hit the atmosphere too quick, too hard..." Kevin whispered. His fists were clenched. He felt no malice at this moment. He did not wish diem death. There was no sound in the radio. The phrmmeting projectile was a tiny black dot, vanishing below and bes hind them. When the end came, it was a mote of orange red, then a dazzling smear of white fire as the rocket ripped into the atmosphere at nearly # miles an hour. "They're dead!" Jones voice choked with disbelief. Kevin nodded, but it was a flashing thing that lost meaning for him in the same instant. He knew that unless a miracle happened, ninety men in his command would meet tibe same fate. L ike a perpetual motion machine, his brain kept reaching for something that could save his space station, his own people, the iron-nerved spacemen who knew they were near death but kept their vital posts, waiting for him to find a way. Stories do not end unhappily -- that thought kept cluttering his brain -- a muddy optimism blanking out vital things that might be done. "What's the altitude Jones?" "# now. Leveling a bit." "Enough?" It was a stupid question and Kevin knew it. Jones shook his head. "We might be lucky," he said. "We'll hit it about # miles up. The top isn't a smooth surface, it billows and dips. But," he added, almost a whisper, "we'll penetrate to about # miles before..." "How much time?" Kevin asked sharply. A tiny chain of hope linked feebly. "About # minutes." "Bert, order all hands into space suits -- emergency ! " While the order was being carried out, Kevin summoned the tugmen. "How many loaded pistols do we have?" "Six," the chief answered. "All right. Get this quick. Anchor yourselves inside the hub. Aim those pistols at the Earth and fire until they're exhausted." The chief stared incredulously. "I know it's crazy," Kevin snapped. "It's not enough, but if it alters our orbit # feet, it'll help." The tugmen ran out. Bert, Kevin and Jones scrambled into space suits. Morrow called for reports. "All hands," he intoned steadily, "open all ports. Repeat. Open all ports. Do not question. Follow directions closely." Ten seconds later, a whoosh of escaping air signaled obedience. "Now!" Kevin shouted, "grab every loose object within reach. Throw it at the Earth. Desks, books, tools, anything. Throw them down with every oimce of strength you've got!" It was insane. Everything was insane. It couldn't possibly be enough... But space around the hurtling station blossomed with every conceivable flying object that man has ever taken with him to a lonely outpost. A pair of shoes went tumbling into darkness, and behind it the plastic framed photograph of someone's wife and children. Jones knew his superior had not gone berserk. He bent anxiously over the radar scope. It was not a matter of jettisoning weight. Every action has an equal reaction, and the force each man gave to a thrown object was as effective in its diminuitive way as the exhaust from a rocket. "Read it!" Morrow shouted. "Read it!" "# miles," Jones cried. "I need more readings to tell if it helped." There was no sound in the radio circuit, save that of # men breathing, waiting to hear # death sentences. Jones' heavily-gloved hands moved the pencil clumsily over the graph paper. He drew a tangent to a new curve. "It helped," he said tonelessly, "We'll go in at # miles, penetrate to #... "Not enough," Kevin said. "Close all ports. Repeat. Close all ports!" An unheard sigh breathed through the mammoth, complex doughnut as automatic machinery gave new breath to airless spaces. It might never be needed again to sustain human life. But the presence of air delivered one final hope to Morrow's frantic brain. "Two three oh miles," Jones said. "Air control," Kevin barked into the mike, "how much pressure can you get in # minutes?" "Air control, aye," came the answer, and a pause while the chief calculated. "About # pounds with everything on the line." "Get it on! And hang on to your hats," Kevin yelled. The station dropped another # miles, slanting in sharply toward the planet's envelope of gas that could sustain life -- or take it away. Morrow turned to Anderson. "Bert. There are four tubes leading into the hub. Get men and open the outer airlocks. Then standby the four inner locks. When I give the signal, open those locks, fast. You may have to pull to help the machinery -- you'll be fighting three times normal air pressure." Bert ran out. Nothing now but to wait. Five minutes passed. Ten. "We're at # miles," Jones said. Far below the Earth wheeled by, its apparent motion exaggerated as the space station swooped lower. "# miles." Kevin's throat was parched, his lips dry. Increasing air pressure squeezed the space suits tighter around his flesh. A horror of claustrophobia gripped him and he knew every man was suffering the same torture. "# miles." "Almost there," Bert breathe unaware that his words were audible. Then a new force gripped them, at first the touch of a caressing finger tip dragging back, ever so slightly. Kevin staggered as inertia tugged him forward. "We're in the air!" he shouted. "Bert. Standby the airlocks!" "Airlocks ready!" The finger was a hand, now, a huge hand of tenuous gases, pressing, pressing, but the station still ripped throu its death medium at a staggering # miles an hour. Jones pointed. Morrow's eyes followed his indicating finger to the thermocouple dial. The dial said # F. While he watched it moved to #, quickly to #. Five seconds more. A blinding pain of tension stabbed Kevin behind the eyes. But through the flashing colors of agony, he counted, slowly, deliberately... "Now!" he shouted. "Open airAir rushed out through the converging spokes of the great wheel, poured out under tremendous pressure, into the open cup of the space station hub, and there the force of three atmospheres spurted into space through the mammoth improvised rocket nozzle. Kevin felt the motion. Every man of the crew felt the surge as the intricate mass of metal and nylon leaped upward. That was all. Morrow watched the temperature gauge. It climbed to #, to #... #...#... "The temperature is at # degrees," he announced huskily over the radio circuit. "If it goes higher, there's nothing we can do." The needle quivered at #, moved to #, and held... Two minutes, three... The needle stepped back, one degree. "We're moving out," Kevin whispered. "We're moving out!" The cheer, then, was a ringing, deafening roar in the earphones. Jones thumped Kevin madly on the back and leaped in a grotesque dance of joy. M orrow leaned back in the control chair, pressed tired fingers to his temples. He could not remember when he had slept. The first rocket from White Sands had brought power to adjust the orbit. This one was on the mark. The next three brought the Senate investigating committee. But that didn't matter, really. Kevin was happy, and he was waiting. The control room door banged open. Mark Kramer's grin was like a Hash of warm sunlight. "Hi, commander," he said, "wait'll you see the marvelous pictures I got." Outside the Moonbeam rode gently at anchor, tethered with new safety lines.    fiction, we are happy to annoimce that, beginning with the December issue of IF, we will present a special department by none other than "Mr. Science Fiction" himself -- Forrest Ackerman, who probably knows more about what is happening in science fiction than any other person in the world today. His column will include news and views of sciencefiction movies, books, personalities, events and other items from all over the world. A resident of Los Angeles, he covers Hollywood and every production of a science fiction film. Surrounded by thousands of volumes of books and tons of magazines, he knows the past and present of everything that's printed. Host and traveler, he has met and entertained writers, producers, scientists, artists and others who are connected with science fiction. He hasn't missed a national convention since he was old enough to crawl, so he knows those too! So -- don't you miss his entertaining and informative new department in the December IF! Illustrated by Paul Orban What can a priest do when he's faced with such a dilemma -- one which requires him to gainsay the very foundations of the faith which he represents? a baby was shrieking. Father Courtney listened to it, and sighed, and made the Sign of the Cross. Another battle, he thought, dismally. Another grand tug of war. And who won this time. Lord? Me? Or that squalling infant, bless its innocence? "In the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen." He turned and made his way down the pulpit steps, and told himself. Well, you ought to be used to it by now. Heaven knows. After all, you're a priest, not a monologist. What do you care about "audience reaction"? And besides, who ever listens to these sermons of yours, anyway -- even under the best of conditions? A few of the ladies in the parish (though you're sure they never hear or understand a word), and, of course, Donovan. But who else? Screech away, little pink child! Screech until you -- no. No, no. Ahhh! He walked through the sacristy, trying not to think of Donovan, or the big city churches with their fine nurseries, and sound-proof walls, and amplifiers that amplified... One had what one had: It was God's will. And were things really so bad? Here there was the smell of forests, wasn't there? And in what city parish could you see wild flowers growing on the hills like bright lava? Or feel the earth breathing? He opened the door and stepped outside. The fields were dark-silver and silent. Far above the fields, up near the clouds, a rocket launch moved swiftly, dragging its slow thunder behind it. Father Courtney blinked. Of course things were not so bad. Things would be just fine, he thought, and I would not be nervous and annoyed at little children, if only -- Abruptly he put his hands together. "Father," he whispered, "let him be well. Let that be Your #" Then, deciding not to wait to greet the people, he wiped his palms with a handkercef and started for the rectory. The morning was very cold. A thin film of dew coated each pebble along the path, and made them all glisten like drops of mercxuy. Father Courtney looked at the pebbles and thought of other walks down this path, which led through a wood to Hidden River, and of himself laughing; of excellent wine and soft cushions and himself arguing, arguing; of a thousand sweet hours in die past. He walked and thought these things and did not hear the telephone until he had reached the rectory stairs. A chill passed over him, unaccoimtably. He went inside and pressed a yellow switch. The screen blurred, came into focus. The face of an "Hello, Father." "George!" The priest smiled and waved his fist, menacingly. "George, why haven't you contacted me?" He sputtered. "Aren't you out of that bed yet?" "Not yet, Father." "Well, I expected it, I knew it. Now will you let me call a doctor?" "No -- " The old man in the screen shook his head. He was thin and pale. His hair was profuse, but very white, and there was sometiling in his eyes. "I think I'd like you to come tJver, if you could." "I shouldn't," the priest said, "after the way you've been treating all of us. But, if there's still some of that Chianti left..." George Donovan nodded. "Could you come right away?" "Father Yoshida won't be happy about it." "Please. Right away." Father Courtney felt his fingers draw into fists. "Why?" he asked, holding onto the conversational tone. "Is anything the matter?" "Not really," Donovan said. His smile was brief. "It's just that I'm dying." "And I'm going to call Doctor Ferguson. Don't give me any cirgument, either. This nonsense has gone far -- " The old man's face knotted. "No," he said, loudly. "I forbid you to do that." "But you're ill, man. For all we know, you're seriously ill. And if you think I'm going to stand around and watch you work yourself into the hospital just because you happen to dislike doctors, you're crazy." "Father, listen -- please, I have my reasons. You don't understand them, and I don't blame you. But you've got to trust me. I'll explain everything, if you'll promise me you won't call anyone Father Courtney breathed unsteadily; he studied his friend's face. Then he said, "I'll promise this much. I won't contact a doctor until I've seen you." "Good." The old man seemed to relax. "I'll be there in fifteen minutes." "With your Little Black Bag?" "Certainly not. You're going to be all right." "Bring it. Father. Please. Just in case." The screen blurred and danced and went white. Father Courtney hesitated at the blank telephone. Then he walked to a table and raised his fists and brought them down hard, once. You're going to get well, he thought. It isn't going to be too late. Because if you are dying, if you really are, and I could have prevented it... He went to the closet and drew on his overcoat. It was thick and heavy, but it did not warm him. As he returned to the sacristy he shivered and thought that he had never been so cold before in all his life. dropped quickly to the ground. Father Courtney removed the ignition key, pocketed it, and thrust his bulk out the narrow door, wheezing. A dull rumbling sifted down from the sky. The wake of fleets a mile away, ten miles, a hundred. Its raining whales in our back yard, the priest thought, remembering how Donovan had described the sound once to a little girl. A freshet of autumn leaves burst against his leg, softly, and for a while he sto listening to the rockets' dying rumble, watching the shapes of gold and red that scattered in the wind, like fire. Then he whispered, "Let it be Your will," and pushed the picket gate. The front door of the house was open. He walked in, through the livingroom, to the study. "George." "In here," a voice answered. He moved to the bedroom, and twisted the knob. George Donovan lay propped on a cloudbank of pillows, his thin face white as the linen. He was smiling. "I'm glad to see you, Father," he said, quietly. The priest's heart expanded and shrank and began to thump in his chest. "The Chianti's down here in the night-table," Donovan gestured. "Pour some: morning's a good enough time for a dinner wine." "Not now, George." "Please. It will help." Father Courtney pulled out the drawer and removed the halfempty bottle. He got a glass from the bookshelf, filled it. Dutifully, according to ritual, he asked, "For you?" "No," Donovan said. "Thank you all the same." He turned his head. "Sit over there. Father, where I can see you." The priest frowned. He noticed that Donovan's arms were perfectly flat against the blanket, that his body was rigid, outlined beneath the covering. No part of the old man moved except the head, and that slowly, unnaturally. "That's better. But take off your coat -- it's terribly hot in here. You'll catch pneumonia." The room was full of cold winds from the open shutters. Father Courtney removed his coat. "You've been worried, haven't you?" Donovan asked. The priest nodded. He tried to sense what was wrong, to smell the disease, if there was a disease, if there was anything. "I'm sorry about that." The old man seemed to sigh. His eyes were misted, webbed with distance, lightly. "But I wanted to be alone. Sometimes you have to be alone, to think, to get things straight. Isn't that true?" "Sometimes, I suppose, but -- " "No. I know what you're going to say, the questions you want to ask. But there's not enough time..." Father Courtney arose from the chair, and walked quickly to the telephone extension. He jabbed a button. "I'm sorry, George," he said, "but you're going to have a doctor." The screen did not flicker. He pressed the button again, firmly. "Sit down," the tired voice whispered. "It doesn't work. I pulled the wires ten minutes ago." "Then I'll fly over to Milbum -- " "If you do, ril be dead when you get back. Believe that: I know what I'm talking about." The priest clenched and unclenched his stubby fingers, and sat down in the chair again. Donovan chuckled. "Drink up," he said. "We can't have good wine going to waste, can we?" The priest put the glass to his lips. He tried to think clearly. If he rushed out to Milburn and got Doctor Ferguson, perhaps there'd be a chance. Or -- He took a deep swallow. No. That wouldn't do. It might take hours. Donovan was talking now; the words lost -- a hum of locusts in the room, a far-off murmuring; then, like a radio turned up: "Father, how long have we been friends, you and I?" "Why... twenty years," the priest answered. "Or more." "Would you say you know me very well by now?" "I believe so." "Then tell me first, right now, would you say that I've been a good man?" Father Courtney smiled. "There've been worse," he said, and thought of what this man had accomplished in Mount Vernon, quietly, in his own quiet way, over the years. The building of a decent school for the children -- Donovan had shamed the people into it. The new hospital -- Donovan's doing, his patient campaigning. Entertainment halls for the young; a city fund for the poor; better teachers, better doctors -- all, all because of the old man with the soft voice, George Donovan. "Do you mean it?" "Don't be foolish. And don't be treacly, either. Of course I mean it" In the room, now, a strange odor fumed up, suddenly. The old man said, "I'm glad." Still he did not move. "But, I'm sorry I asked. It was unfair." "I don't have the slightest idea what you're talking about." "Neither do I, Father, completely. I thought I did, once, but I was wrong." The priest slapped his knees, angrily. "Why won't you let me get a doctor? We'll have plenty of time to talk afterwards." Donovan's eyes narrowed, and curved into what resembled a smile. "You're my doctor," he said. "The only one who can help me now." "In what way?" "By making a decision." The voice was reedy : it seemed to waver and change pitch. "What sort of a decision?" Donovan's head jerked up. He closed his eyes and remained this way for a full minute, while the acrid smell bellied and grew stronger and whorled about the room in invisible currents. " '... the gentleman lay graveward with his furies...' Do you remember that. Father?" "Yes," the priest said. "Thomas, isn't it?" "Thomas. He's been here with me, you know, really; and I've been asking him things. On the theory that poets aren't entirely human. But he just grins. 'You're dying of strangers,' he says; and grins. Bless him." The old man lowered his head. "He disappointed me." Father Courtney reached for a cigarette, crumpled the empty pack, laced and unlaced his fingers. He waited, remembering the times he had come to this house, all the fine evenings. Ending now? Yes. Whatever else he would learn, he knew that, suddenly: they were ending. "What sort of a decision, George?" "A theological sort." Father Courtney snorted and walked to a window. Outside, the sun was hidden behind a curtain of gray. Birds sat black and still on the telephone lines, like notes of music; and there was rain. "Is there something you think you haven't told me?" he asked. "Yes." "About yourself?" "Yes." "I don't think so, CJeorge." Father Courtney turned. "I've known about it for a long time." The old man tried to speak. "I've known very well. And now I think I understand why you've refused to see anyone." "No," Donovan said. "You don't. Father, listen to me: it isn't what you think." "Nonsense." The priest reverted to his usual gruff ness. "We've been friends for too many years for this kind of thing. It's exactly what I think. You're an intelligent, wellread, mule-stubbom old man who's worried he won't get to Heaven because sometimes he has doubts." "That isn't -- " "Well, rubbish! Do you think I don't ask questions, myself, once in a while? Just lcause Fm a priest, do you think I go blindly on, never wondering, not even for a minute?" The old man's eyes moved swiftly, up and down. "Every intelligent person doubts, George, once in a while. And we all feel terrible about it, and we're terribly sorry. But I assure you, if this were enough to damn us. Heaven would be a wilderness." Father Courtney reached again for a cigarette. "So you've shut yourself up like a hermit and worried and stewed and endangered your life, and all for nothing." He coughed. "Well, that's it, isn't it?" "I wish it were," Donovan said, sadly. His eyes kept dancing. There was a long pause; then he said, "Let me pose you a theoretical problem. Father. Something I've been thinking about lately." Father Courtney recalled the sentence, and how many times it had begun the evenings of talk -- wonderful talk! These evenings, he realized, were part of his life now. An important part. For there was no one else, no one of Donovan's intelligence, with whom you could argue any subject under the sun -- from Frescobaldi to baseball, from Colonization on Mars to the early French symbolists, to agrarian reforms, to wines, to theology... The old man shifted in the bed. As he did, the acrid odor diminished #ind swelled and pulsed. "You once told me," he said, "that you read imaginative fiction, didn't you?" "I suppose so." "And that there were certain concepts you could swallow -- such as parallel worlds, mutated humans, and the like -- , but that other concepts you couldn't swallow at all. Artificial life, I befieve you mentioned, and time travel, and a few others." The priest nodded. "Well, let's take one of these themes for our problem. Will you do that? Let's te the first idea." "All right. Then the doctor." "We have this man. Father," Donovan said, gazing at the ceiling. "He looks perfectly ordinary, you see, and it would occur to no one to doubt this ; but he is not ordinary. Strictly speaking, he isn't even a man. For, though he lives, he isn't alive. You follow? He is a thing of wires and coils and magic, a creation of other men. He is a machine..." "George!" The priest shook his head. "We've gone through this before: it's foolish to waste time. I came here to help you, not to engage in a discussion of science fiction themes!" "But that's how you can help me," Donovan said. "Very well," the priest sighed. "But you know my views on this. Even if there were a logical purpose to which such a creature might be put -- and I can't think of any -- I still say they will never create a machine that is capable of abstract thought. Human intelligence is a spiritual thing -- and spiritual things can't be duplicated by men." "You really believe that?" "Of course I do. Extrapolation of known scientific advances is perfectly all right; but this is something else entirely." "Is it?" the old man said. "What about Pasteur's discoveiTi? Or the X-Ray? Did Roentgen correlate a lot of embryonic data. Father, or did he come upon something brand new? What do you think even the scientists themselves would have said to the idea of a machine that would see through human tissue? They would have said. It's fantastic. And it was, too, and is. Nevertheless, it exists." "It's not the same thing." "No... I suppose that's true. However, I'm not trying to convince you of my thesis. I ask merely that you accept it for the sake of the problem. Will you?" "Go ahead, George." "We have this man, then. He's artificial, but he's perfect: great pains have been taken to see to this. Perfect, no detail spared, however small. He looks human, and he acts human, and for all the world knows, he is human. In fact, sometimes even he, our man, gets confused. When he feels a pain in his heart, for instance, its diflScult for him to remember that he has no heart. When he sleeps and awakes refreshed, he must remind himself that this is all controlled by an automatic switch somewhere inside his brain, and that he doesn't actually feel refreshed. He must think. I'm not real. I'm not real. I'm not real! "But this becomes impossible, after a while. Because he doesn't believe it He begins to ask, Why? Why am I not real? Where is the difference, when you come right down to it? Humans eat and sleep -- as I do. They talk -- as I do. They move and work and laugh -- as I do. What they think, I think, and what they feel, I feel. Don't I? "He wonders, this mechanical man does, Father, what would happen if all the people on earth were suddenly to discover they were mechanical also. Would they feel any the less human? Is it likely that they would rush off to woo typewriters and adding machines? Or would they think, perhaps, of revising their definition of the word, 'Life'? "Well, our man thinks about it, and thinks about it, but he never reaches a conclusion. He doesn't believe he's nothing more than an advanced calculator, but he doesn't really believe he's human, either: not completely. "All he knows is that the smell of wet grass is a fine smell to him, and that the sound of the wind blowing through trees is very sad and very beautiful, and that he loves the whole earth with an impossible passion..." Father Courtney shifted uncomfortably in his chair. If only the telephone worked, he thought. Or if he could be sure it was safe to leave... other men made the creature, as I've said; but many more like him were made. However, of them all, let's say only he was successful." "Why?" the priest asked, irritably. "Why would this be done in the first place?" Donovan smiled. "Why did we send the first ship to the moon? Or bother to split the atom? For no very good reason. Father. Except the reason behind all of science: Curiosity. My theoretical scientists were curious to see if it could be accomplished, that's all." The priest shrugged. "But perhaps I'd better give our man a lustory. That would make it a bit more logical. All right, he was bom a hundred years ago, roughly. A privately owned industrial monopoly was his mother, and a dozen or so assorted technicians his father. He sprang from his electronic womb fully formed. But, as the result of an accident -- lack of knowledge, what have you -- he came out rather different from his unsuccessful brothers. A mutant! A mutated robot, Father -- now there's an idea that ought to appeal to you! Anyway, he knew who, or what, he was. He remembered. And so -- to make it brief -- when the war interrupted the experiment and threw things into a general uproar, our man decided to escape. He wanted his individuality. He wanted to get out of the zoo. "It wasn't particularly easy, but he did this. Once free, of course, it was impossible to find him. For one thing, he had been constructed along almost painfully ordinary lines. And for another, they couldn't very well release the information that a mechanical man built by their laboratories was wandering the streets. It would cause a panic. And there was enough panic, what with the nerve gas and the bombs." "So they never found him, I gather." "No," Donovan said, wistfully. "They never found him. And they kept their secret well : it died when they died." "And what happened to the creature?" "Very little, to tell the truth. They'd given him a decent intelligence, you see -- far more decent, and complex, than they knew -- so he didn't have much trouble finding small jobs. A rather old-looking man, fairly strong -- he made out. Needless to say, he couldn't stay in the same town for more than twenty years or so, because of his inability to age, but this was all right. Everyone makes friends and loses them. He got used to it." Father Courtney sat very still now. The birds had flown away from the telephone lines, and were at the window, beating their wings, and crying harshly. "But all this time, he's been thinking. Father. Thinking and reading. He makes quite a study of philosophy, and for a time he favors a somewhat peculiar combination of Russell and Schopenhauer -- unbitter bitterness, you might say. Then this phase passes, and he begins to search through the vast theological and metaphysical literature. For what? He isn't sure. However, he is sure of one thing, now: He is, indubitably, human. Without breath, without heart, without blood or bone, artificially created, he thinks this and believes it, with a fair amount of firmness, too. Isn't that remarkable!" "It is indeed," the priest said, his throat oddly tight and dry. "Go on." "Well," Donovan chuckled, "I've caught your interest, have I? All right, then. Let us imagine that one hundred years Ifkve passed. The creature has been able to make minor repairs on himself, but -- at last -- he is dying. Like an ancient motor, he's gone on nmning year after year, until he's all paste and hairpins, and now, like the motor, he's falling apart. And nothing and no one can save him." The acrid aroma burned and fumed. "Here's the real paradox, though. Our man has become religious. Father! He doesn't have a living cell within him, yet he's concerned about his soul!" Donovan's eyes quieted, as the rest of him did. "The problem," he said, "is this: Having lived creditably for over a century as a member of iht human species, can this creature of ours hope for Heaven? Or will he 'die' and become only a heap of metal cogs?" Father Courtney leapt from the chair, and moved to the bed. "George, in Heaven's name, let me call Doctor Ferguson!" "Answer the question first. Or haven't you decided?" "There's nothing to decide," the priest said, with impatience. "It's a preposterous idea. No machine can have a soul." Donovan made the sighing sound, through closed lips. He said, "You don't think it's conceivable, then, that God could have made an exception here?" "What do you mean?" "That He could have taken pity on this theoretical man of ours, and breathed a soul into him after all? Is that so impossible?' Father Courtney shrugged. "It's a poor word, impossible," he said. "But it's a poor problem, too. Why not ask me whether pigs ought to be allowed to fly?" "Then you admit it's conceivable?" "I admit nothing of the kind. It simply isn't the sort of question any man can answer." "Not even a priest?" "Especially not a priest. You know as much about Catholicism as I do, George ; you ought to know how absurd the proposition is." "Yes," Donovan said. His eyes were closed. Father Courtney remembered the time they had argued furiously on what would happen if you went back in time and killed your own grandfather. This was like that argument. Exactly like it -- exactly. It was no stranger than a dozen other discussions (What if Mozart had ben a writer instead of a composer? If a person died and remained dead for an hour and were then revived, would he be haunted by his own ghost?) Plus, perhaps, the fact that Donovan might be in a fever. Perhaps and might and why do I sit here while his life may be draining away... The old man made a sharp noise. "But you can tell me this much," he said. "If our theoretical man were dying, and you knew that he was dying, would you give him Extreme Unction?" "George, you're delirious." "No, I'm not: please. Father! Would you give this creature the Last Rites? If, say, you knew him? If you'd known him for years, as a friend, as a member of the parish?" The priest shook his head. "It would be sacriligious." "But why? You said yoiurself that he might have a soul, that God might have granted him this. Didn't you say that?" "Father, remember, he's a friend of yours. You know him well. You and he, this creature, have worked together, side by side, for years. You've taken a thousand walks together, shared the same interests, the same love of art and knowledge. For the sake of the thesis. Father. Do you understand?" "No," the priest said, feeling a chill freeze into him. "No, I don't." "Just answer this, then. If your friend were suddenly to reveal himself to you as a machine, and he was dying, and wanted very much to go to Heaven -- what would you do?" The priest picked up the wine glass and emptied it. He noticed Slat his hand W#is trembling. "Why -- he began, and stopped, and looked at the silent old man in the bed, studying the face, searching for madness, for death. What would you do? An unsummoned image flashed through his mind. Donovan, kneeling at the altar for Communion, Sunday after Sunday; Donovan, with his mouth firmly shut, while the others' yawned ; Donovan, waiting to the last moment, then snatching the Host, quickly, dartingly, like a lizard gobbling a fly. Had he ever seen Donovan eat? Had he seen him take even one glass of wine, ever? Father Courtney shuddered slightly, brushing away the images. He felt unwell. He wished the birds would go elsewhere. Welly answer hiniy he thought. Give him an answer. Then get in the helicar and fly to Milburn and pray ifs not too late... "I think," the priest said, "that in such a case, I would administer Extreme Unction." "Just as a precautionary measure?" "It's all very ridiculous, but -- I think that's what I'd do. Does that answer the question?" "It does. Father. It does." Donovan's voice came from nowhere. "There is one last point, then I'm finished with my little thesis." "Yes?" "Let us say the man dies and you give him Extreme Unction; he does or does not go to Heaven, provided there is a Heaven. What happens to the body? Do you tell the townspeople they have been living with a mechanical monster all these years?" "What do you think, George?" "I think it would be unwise. They remember our theoretical man as a friend, you see. The shock would be terrible. Also, they would never believe he was the only one of his kind: they'd begin to suspect their neighbors of having clockwork interiors. And some of them might be tempted to investigate and see for sure. And, too, the news would be bound to spread, all over the world. I think it would be a bad thing to let anyone know, Father." "How would I be able to suppress it?" the priest heard himself ask, seriously. "By conducting a private autopsy, so to speak. Then, afterward, you could take the parts to a junkyard and scatter them." Donovan's voice dropped to a whisper. Again the locust hum. "... and if our monster had left a note to the effect he had moved to some unspecified place, you..." The acrid smell billowed, all at once, like a steam, a hiss of blinding vapor. "George." Donovan lay imstirring on the cloud of linen, his face composed, expressionless. "George!" The priest reached his hand under the blanket and touched the heart-area of Donovan's chest. He tried to pull the eyelids up: they would not move. He blinked away the burning wetness. "Forgive me!" he said, and paused, and took from his pocket a small white jar and a white stole. He spoke softly, under his breath, in Latin. While he spoke, he touched the old man's feet and head with glistening fingertips. Then, when many minutes had passed, he raised his head. Rain sounded in the room, and swift winds, and far-off rockets. Father Courtney grasped the edge of the blanket. He made the Sign of the Cross, breathed, and pulled downward, slowly. After a long while he opened his eyes.    An executive job was no longer important, not with the Union holding the stock. But a smart vice-president knows more than machines and production -- he knows people Meeting of the Board As he pushed his way nervously through the crowds toward the Exit Strip, Walter Towne turned the dismal prospect over and over in his mind. The potential gloominess of this particular day had descended upon him the instant the morning buzzer had gone off, making it even easier than usual to just roll over and forget about it I -- until the water-douse came twenty minutes later to drag him, drenched and gurgling, back to the cruel cold world. He had wolfed down his morning Koffee-Kup with one eye on the clock and one eye on his growing sense of impenffing crisis. And now, to make things just a trifle worse, he was going to be late again. He struggled doggedly across the rumbling Exit Strip toward the Plant entrance. After all, he told himself, why should he be so upset? He was Vice President-In-ChargeOf-Production of the Robling Titanium Corporation. What could they do to him, really? He had rehearsed his part many times -- squaring his tlun shoulders, looking the Union Boss square in the eye and saying, "Now, see here, Torkleson -- But he knew, when the showdown came, that he wouldn't say any such thing. And this was the morning that the showdown would come. Oh, not because of the lateness. Of course Bailey, the Shop Steward, would take his usual delight in bringing that up. But this seemed hardly worthy of concern this morning. The reports waiting on his desk were what worried him. The sales reports. The promotion-draw reports. The royalty reports. The anticipated dividend reports. Walter shook his head wearily. The Shop Steward was a goad, annoying, perhaps even infuriating, but tolerable. Torkleson was a different matter -- He pulled his worn overcoat down over frayed shirt-sleeves, and tried vainly to straighten the celluloid collar that kept scooting his tie up under his ear. Once off the moving Strip, he started up the Robling corridor toward the plant gate. Perhaps he would be fortunate. Maybe the reports would be late. Maybe his secretary's two neurones would fail to synapse this morning, and she'd lose them altogether. And, as long as he was dreaming, maybe Bailey would break his neck on the way to work this morning. He walked quickly past the Workers' Lounge, glancing in at the groups of men, arguing politics and checking the stock market reports before they changed from their neat grey business suits to their welding dungarees for the day. Running up the stairs to the Administrative Wing, he paused outside the door to punch the time clock. #:#. Damn. If only Bailey could be sick -- Bailey was not sick. The Administrative Offices were humming with frantic activity as Walter glanced down the rows of cubbyhole offices. And in the middle of it all sat Bailey, in his black-and-yellow checkered tattersall, smoking a large cigar. His feet were planted on his desk top, but he hadn't started on his morning western novel yet. He was busy glaring, first at the clock, then at Walter. "Late again, I see," the Shop Steward growled. Walter gulped. "Yes, sir. Just four minutes, this time, sir. You know those crowded Strips -- " "So it's just four minutes now, eh?" Bailey's feet came down with a crash. "After last month's fine production record, you think four minutes doesn't matter, eh? Think just because you're a Vice President it's all right to mosey in here whenever you feel like it." He glowered. "Well, this is three times tins month you've been late, Towne. That's a demerit for each time -- and you know what that means." "You wouldn't count four minutes as a whole demerit!" Bailey grinned. "Wouldn't I, now! You just add up your pay envelope on Friday. Ten cents an hour off for each demerit -- Walter sighed and shuffled back to his desk. Oh, well. It could have been worse. They might have fired him like poor Cartwright last month. He'd just have to listen to that morning buzzer... The reports were on his desk. He picked them up warily. Maybe they wouldn't be so bad. He'd had more freedom this last month than before -- maybe there'd been a policy change. Maybe Torkleson was gaining confidence in him. Maybe -- The reports were worse than he had ever dreamed. 'Towner Walter jumped a foot. Bailey was putting down the vidiphone receiver. His grin spread unpleasantly from ear to ear. "What have you been doing lately? Sabotaging the production line?" "What's the trouble now?" Bailey jerked a thumb significantly at the ceiling. "The Boss wants to see you. And you'd better have the right answers, too. The Boss seems to have a lot of questions." Walter rose slowly from his seat. This was it, then. Torkleson had already seen the reports. He started for the door, his knees shaking. It hadn't always been like this, he reflected miserably. Time was when things had been very different. It had meant something to be Vice President of a huge industrial firm like Robling Titanium. A man could have had a fine house of his own, and a 'copter-car, and belong to the Country Club -- maybe even have a cottage on a lake somewhere -- Walter could almost remember those days with Robling, before the Switchover. Before that black day when the exchange of ten little shares of stock had thrown the Robling Titanium Corporation into the hands of strange and imnatural owners. T he door was of heavy stained oak, with bold letters edged in gold: Illustrated by Ed Emsh Amalgamated Locals Daniel P. Torkleson, Secretary The secretary flipped down the desk switch and eyed Walter with pity. "Mr. Torkleson will see you." Walter pushed through the door into the long, handsome office. For an instant he felt a pang of nostalgia -- the floor-to-ceiling windows looking out across the long buildings of the Robling plant, the pine panelling, the broad expanse of desk -- "Well? Don't just stand there. Shut the door and come over here." The man behind the desk hoisted his three hundred well-dressed poimds and glared at Walter from under flagrant eyebrows. Torkleson's whole body quivered as he slammed a sheaf of papers down on the desk. "Just what do you think you're doing with this company, Towne?" Walter swallowed. "I'm production manager of the corporation." "And just what does the production manager do all day?" Walter reddened. "He organizes the work of the plant, establishes production lines, works with Promotion and Sales, integrates Research and Development, operates the planning machines -- " "And you think you do a pretty good job of it, eh? Even asked for a raise last year!" Torkleson's voice was dangerous. Walter spread his hands. "I do my best. I've been doing it for thirty years. I should know what I'm doing." 'Then how do you explain these reports? Torkleson threw the heap of papers into Walter's arms, and paced up and down behind the desk. "LooA: at them! Sales at rock bottom. Receipts impossible. Big orders cancelled. The worst reports jp seven years -- and you say you know your job!" "I've been doing everything I could," Walter snapped. "Of course the reports are bad -- they couldn't help but be. We haven't met a production schedule in over two years. No plant can keep up production the way the men are working -- " Torkleson's face darkened. He leaned forward slowly. "So it's the men now, is it? Go ahead. Tell me what's wrong with the men." "Nothing's wrong with the men -- if they'd only work. But they come in when they please, and leave when they please, and spend half their time dianging and the other half on Koffee-Kup -- no company could survive. But that's only half of it -- " Walter picked up the reports, searched through them frantically. "This International Jet Transport account -- they dropped US because we haven't had a new engine in six years. Why? Because Research and Development hasn't had any money for six years. What can two starved engineers and a second rate chemist drag out of an attic laboratory to compete on the titanium market?" Walter took a deep breath. "I've warned you time and again. Robling had built up accounts over the years with fine products and new models. But since the Switchover seven years ago, you and your Board have forced me to play the cheap products for the qmck profit in order to give your men their dividends. Now the bottom's dropped out. We couldn't turn a quick profit on the big, important accounts, so we had to cancel them. If you had let me manage the company the way it should have been run -- Torkleson had been slowly turning purple. Now he slammed his fist down on the desk. "We should just turn the company back to Management again, eh? Just let you have a free hand to rob us blind again. Well, it won't work, Towne. Not while I'm secretary of this Union. We fought long and hard for control of this corporation -- just the way all the other Unions did. I know. I was through it all." He sat back smugly, his cheeks quivering with emotion. "You might say that I was a national leader in the movement. But I did it only for the men. The men want their dividends. They own the stock, stock is sup-: posed to pay dividends -- "But they're cutting their own throats," Walter wailed. "You can't build a company and make it grow the way I've been forced to run it -- " "Details!" Torkleson snorted. "I don't care how the dividends come in. That's your job. My job is to report a dividend every six months to the men who own the stock -- the men working on the production lines." Walter nodded bitterly. "And every year the dividend has to be higher than the last, or you and your fat friends are likely to be thrown out of your jobs -- aright? No more steaks every night. No more private gold-plated Buicks for you boys. No more twenty-room mansions in Westchester. No more big game hunting in the Rockies. No, you don't have to know anything but how to whip a Board Meeg into a frenzy so they'll vote you into office again each year --  Torkleson's eyes glittered. His voice was very soft "I've always liked you, Walter. So I'm goin to pretend I didn't hear you just then." He paused for a long moment. "But here on my desk is a small bit of white paper. Unless you have my signature on that paper on the first of next month, you are out of a job, on grounds of incompetence. And I will personally see that you go on every Whitelist in the country." Walter felt the fight go out of him like a dying wind. He knew what the Whitelist meant. No job, anywhere, ever, in management. No chance, ever, to join a Union. No more house, no more weekly pay envelope. He spread his hands weakly. "What do you want?" he asked. "I want a production plan on my desk within twenty-four hours. A plan that will guarantee me a # increase in dividend in the next six months. And you'd better move fast, because I'm not fooling." Back in his cubbyhole downstairs, Walter stared hopelessly at the reports. He had known it would come to this sooner or later. They all knew it -- Hendricks of Promotion, Pendleton of Sales, the whole managerial staff. It was wrong, all the way down the line. Walter had fought it tooth and nail since the day Torkleson had installed the moose-heads in Walter's old office, and moved him down to the cubbyhole, imder Bailey's watchful eye. He had argued, and battled, and pleaded -- and lost. He had watched the company deteriorate day by day -- and now they blamed him, and threatened his job, and he was helpless to do anything about it -- He stared at the machines, clicking busily against the wall, and an idea began to form. Helpless? Not quite. Not if the others could see it, go along with it. It was a repugnant idea. But there was one thing they could do that even Torkleson and his fat-jowled crew would imderstand. They could go on strike.lyer spluttered, staring at the circle of men in ffie room. "How can I give you an opinion on the legality of the thing? There isn't any legal precedent that I know of." He mopped his bald head with a large white handkerchief. "There just hasn't been a case of a company's management striking against its own labor. It -- it isn't done. Oh, there have been lockouts, but this isn't the same thing at all -- " Walter nodded. "Well, we couldn't very well lock the men out -- they own the plant. We were thinking more of a lock-in sort of thing." He turned to Paul Hendricks and the others. "We know how the machines operate. They don't. We also know that the data we keep in the machines is essential to running the business -- the machines figure production quotas, organize blueprints, prepare distribution lists, test promotion schemes. It would take an office full of managerial experts to handle even a single phase of the work without the machines -- " The man at the window hissed, and Pendleton quickly snapped out the lights. They sat in darkness, hwlly daring to breath. Then: "Okay. Just the man next door coming home." Pendleton sighed. "You're sure you didn't let them suspect anything, Walter? They wouldn't be watng the hoiise -- "I don't think so. And you all came alone,, at different times." He nodded to the window guard, and turned back to the little lawyer. "So we can't be sure of the legal end -- you'd have to be on your toes." "I still don't see how we could work it," Hendricks objected. His heavy face was wrinkled with worry. "Torkleson is no fool -- and he has a lot of power in the National Association of Union Stockholders. All he'd need to do is ask for managers, and a dozen companies would throw them to him on loan. They'd be able to figure out the machine system and te over without losing a day." "Not qxiite." Walter was grinning. "That's why I spoke of a lockin. Before we leave, we throw the machines into feedback -- every one of them. Lock them into reverberating circuits with a code sequence key. Then all they'll do is buzz and sputter imtil the feedback is broken with the key. And the key is our secret. It'll tie the Robling office into granny knots -- and scabs won't be able to get any more data out of the machines than Torkleson could. With a lawyer to handle injunctions, we've got them strapped." "For what?" asked the lawyer. Walter turned on him sharply. "For new contracts. Contracts to let us manage the company the way it should be managed. If they won't do it, they won't get another Titanium product off their production lines for the rest of the year, and their dividends will really t a nosedive." "That means you'll have to beat Torkleson," said Bates. "He'll never go along." "Then he'll be left behind." Hendricks stood up, brushing off his dungarees. "I'm with you, Walter. I've taken all of Torkleson that I want to. And I'm sick of the junk we've been trying to sell people." The others nodded. Walter rubbed his hands together. "All right. Tomorrow we work as usual, until the noon whistle. When we go off for lunch, we throw the machines into lock-step. Then we just don't come back. But the big thing is to keep it quiet until the noon whistle." He turned to the lawyer. "Are you with us, Jeff?" Jeff Bates shook his head sadly. "I'm with you. I don't know why -- you haven't got a leg to stand on. But if you, want to committ suicide, that's all right with me." He picked up his briefcase, and started for the door. "I'll have your contract demands by tomorrow," he grinned. "See you at the lynching." They got down to the details of planning. T he news hit the afternoon telecasts the following day. UM... There was a long, indignant statement from Daniel P. Torkleson, condemning Towne and his followers for "flagrant violation of management contracts, and illegal fouling of managerial processes." Ben Starkey, President of the Board of American Steel expressed "shock and regret" ; the Amalgamated Button-Hole Makers held a mass meeting in protest, demanding that "the instigators of this unprecedented crime be permanently barred from positions in American Industry." In Washington, the nation's economists were more cautious in their views. Yes, it was an unprecedented action. Yes, there would undoubtedly be repercussions -- many industries were having managerial troubles; but as for long term effects, it was difficult to say just at present -- And the workmen on the Robling production lines blinked at each other, and at their machines, and wondered vaguely what it was all about -- Yet in all the upheaval, there was very little expression of surprise. Step by step, through the years, economists had been watching the growing movement toward Union control of Industry with wary eyes. Even as far back as the '#'s and '#'s Uniqiis, finding themselves oppressed with the administration of growing sums of money -- pension funds, welfare funds, medical insurance funds, accruing Union dues -- had begun investing in corporate stock. It was no news to them that money could make money. And what stock more logical to buy than stock in their own companies? At first it had been a quiet movement. One by one the smaller firms had tottered, bled drier and drier by increasing production costs, increasing labor demands, and an ever-dwindling margin of profit. One by one they had seen their stocks tottering as they faced bankruptcy -- only to be gobbled up by the one ready buyer with plenty of funds to buy with. At first changes had been small and insignificant: Boards of Directors shifted, the men were paid higher wages and worked shorter hours, there were tighter management policies, and a little less money spent on extras like Research and Development -- At first. Until that fateful night and Jake Squill of Amalgamated Button-Hole Makers spent a long evening with beer and cigars in a hotel room, and floated the loan that threw Steel to the Unions. Oil had followed with hardly a fight, and as the Unions began to feel their oats, the changes grew more radical. Walter Towne remembered those stormy days well. The gradual undercutting of the managerial salaries, the tightening up of interUnion collusion to establish the infamous Whitelist of Recalcitrant Managers. The shift from hourly wage to annual salary for the fao tory workers, and the change to the other pole for the managerial staff. And then, with creeping malignancy, the hungry howling of the Union Bosses for more and higher dividends, year after year, moving steadily toward the inevitable crisis. Until Shop Steward Bailey suddenly found himself in charge of a dozen sputtering machines and an empty office. Torkleson was waiting to see him when he came in next morning. The Union Boss's office was crowded with TV cameras, newsmen, and puzzled workmen. The floor was littered with piles of ominous-looking paper. Torkleson was shouting into a telephone, and three lawyers were shouting into Torkleson's ear. He spotted Bailey, waving him through the crowd into an inner office room. "Well? Did they get them fixed?" Bailey spread his hands nervously. "The electronics boys have been at it since yesterday afternoon. Practically had the machines apart on the floor." "I know that, stupid," Torkleson roared. "I ordered ffiem there. Did they get the machines fixed? "Uh -- well, no, as a matter of fact -- " "Well, whafs holding them up?Bailey's face was a study in misery. "The machines just go in circles. The circuits are locked. They just reverberate." "Then call American Electronics. Have them send down an expert crew -- " Bailey shook his head. "They won't come." "They what "They said thanks but no thanks. They don't want their fingers in this pie at all." "Wait until I get O'Gilvy on the phone -- " "It won't do any good, sir. They've got their own management troubles. They're scared silly of a sympathy strike." The door bmst open, amd a law yer stuck his head in. "What about those injunctions, Dan?" "Get them moving," TcMkleson howled. "They'll start those machines again, or I'll have them in jail so fast -- " He turned back to Bailey. "What about the production lines?" The Shop Steward's face lighted. "They slipped up, there. There was one program that hadn't been coded into the machines yet. Just a minor item, but it's a starter. We foimd it in Towne's desk, blueprints all ready, promotion ail planned." "Good, good," Torkleson breathed. "I have a Director's meeting right now -- have to get the workers quieted down a little bit. You put the program through, and give those electronics men three more hours to unsnarl this knot, or we throw them out of the Union." He started for the door. "What were the blueprints for?" "Trash-cans," said Bailey. "Pure titanium-steel trash-cans." proximately two days to convert its entire production line to titanium-steel trash-cans. With the total resources of the giant plant behind the effort, production was phenomenal. In two more days the available markets were glutted. By two weeks, at conservative estimate, there would be a titanium-steel trash-can for every man, woman, child, and hound dog on the North American Continent. The jet engines, structural steels, tubing, and other pre-strike products piled up in the freight yards, their routing slips and order requisitions tied up in the reverberating machines. But the machines continued to buzz and sputter. The workers grew restive. From the first day, Towne and Hendricks and all the others had been picketting the plant, until angry crowds of workers had driven them off with shotguns. Then they came back in an old, weatherbeaten 'copter which hovered over the plant entrance carrying a banner with a hurled, fists were shaken -- but the copter remained -- The third day, Jeff Bates was served with an injunction ordering Towne to return to work. It was duly appealed, legal machinery began tying itself into knots, and the strikers still struck. By the fifth day there was a more serious note. "You're going to have to appear, Walter. We can't dodge this one." "When?" "Tomorrow morning. And before a labor-rigged judge, too." The little lawyer paced his oflBce nervously. "I don't like it. Torkleson's getting desperate. Workers putting pressure on him -- " Walter grinned. "Then Pendleton is doing a good job of selling." "But you haven't got time the lawyer wailed. "They'll have you in jail if you don't start the machines again. They may have you in jail if you do start them, too, but that's another bridge. Right now they want those machines going again."  "We'll see," said Walter. "What time tomorrow?" "Ten o'clock." Bates looked up. "And don't try to skip. You be there -- because I don't know what to tell them." Walter was there, a half hour early. Torkleson's legal staff glowered from across the room. The judge glowered from the bench. Walter closed his eyes with a little smile as the charges were read. " -- breach of contract, malicious mischief, sabotage of the company's machines, conspiring to destroy the livelihood of ten thousand workers -- Your Honor, we are preparing briefs to further prove that these men have formed a conspiracy to undermine the economy of the entire nation. We appeal to the spirit of orderly justice -- " Walter yawned as the words went on. "Of course, if the defendant will waive his appeals against the previous injunctions, and will release the machines that were sabotaged, we will be happy to formally withdraw these charges -- " There was a rustle of sound through the courtroom. His Honor turned to Jeff Bates. "Are you consel for the defendant?" "Yes, sir." Bates mopped his bald scalp. "The defendant pleads guilty to ail counts." The Union lawyer dropped his glasses' on the table with a crash. The judge stared. "Mr. Bates, if you plead guilty, you leave me no alternative -- " -- but to send me to jail," said Walter Towne. "Go ahead. Send me to jail. In fact, I insist upon going to jail -- " The Union lawyer's jaw sagged. There was a hurried conference. A recess was pleaded. Telephones buzzed. Then: "Your honor, the plaintiff desires to withdraw all charges at this time." "Objection," Bates exclaimed. "We've already pleaded." " -- feel sure that a settlement can be affected out of court -- " The case was thrown out on its ear. And still the machines sputtered. B ack at the plant rumor had it that the machines were permanently gutted, and that the plant could never go back into production. Conflicting scuttlebutt suggested that persons high in Uniondom had perpetrated the crisis deliberately, bullying Management into the strike for the sole purpose of cutting current dividends and selling stock to themselves cheaply. The rumors grew easier and easier to believe. The workers came to the plants in business suits, it was true, and loimged in the finest of lounges, and read the Wall Street Journal, and felt like Stockholders. But to face facts, their salaries were not the highest. Deduct Union dues, pension fees, medical insiu'ance fees, and sundry other little items which had formerly been paid by well-to-do managements, and very little was left but the semi-annual dividend checks. And now the dividends were tottering -- Production lines slowed. There were daily brawls on the plant floor, in the lounge and locker rooms. Workers began joking about the trash-cans ; then the humor grew more and more remote. Finally, late in the afternoon of the eighth day, Bailey was once again in Torkleson's office. "Well? Speak up! What's the beef this time?" "Sir -- the men -- I mean, there's been some nasty talk -- they're tired of making trash-cans. No challenge in it. Anyway, the stock room is full, and the freight yard is full, and the last run of orders we sent out came back because they don't want any more." Bailey shook his head. "The men won't swallow it any more. There's -- well, there's been talk about having a Board Meetmg. Torkleson's ruddy cheeks paled. "Board meeting, huh?" He licked his heavy lips. "Now look, Bailey -- we've always worked well together. I consider you a good friend of mine. You've got to get things under control. Tell the men we're making progress. Tell them management is beginning to buckle from its originad stand. Tell them we expect to have the strike broken in another few hours. Tell them anything -- " He waited until Bailey was gone. Then, with a trembling hand he lifted the visiphone receiver. "Get me Walter Towne," he said. "I'm not an unreasonable man," Torkleson was saying miserably, waving his fat paws in the air as he paced back and forth. "Perhaps we were a little demanding -- I concede it! Overenthusiastic with our ownership, and all that. But I'm sure we can come to some agreement. A hike in wage scale is certainly within reason. Perhaps we can even arrange for better company houses -- " Walter Towne stifled a yawn. "Perhaps you didn't hear me. The men are agitating for a meeting of the Board of Directors. I want to be at that meeting. That's the only term I'm interested, in." "But there wasn't anything about a Board meeting in the contract your lawyer presented -- " "Well, you didn't like that contract. So we tore it up. Anyway, we've changed our minds." Torkleson sat down, his heavy cheeks quivering. "Gentlemen, be reasonable! I can guarantee you your jobs -- even give you a free hand with the management. So the dividends won't be so nice -- the men will have to get used to that. That's it, we'll put it through at the next executive conference, give you -- " "The Board meeting," Walter said gently. "That'll be enough for us -- " The Union Boss swore and slammed his #st on the desk. "Walk out in front of those men -- after what you've done? You're fools! Well, I've given you your chance. You'll get your Board meeting. But you'd better come armed. Because I know how to handle this kind of a Board meeting -- and if I have anything to say about it, this one will end with a massacre." T he meeting was held in a huge auditorium in the Robling administration building. Since every member of the Union owned stock in the company, every member had the right to vote for members of the Board of Directors. But in the early days of the Switchover, the idea of a Board of Directors smacked too strongly of the old system of corporate organization to suit the men. The solution had been simple, if a trifle ungainly. Everyone who owned stock in Robling Titanium was automatically a member of the Board of Directors, with Torkleson as chairman of the Board. The stockholders numbered over teii thousand... They were all present. They were packed in from the wall to the stage, and hanging from the rafters. They overflowed into the corridors; they jammed the lobby. Ten thousand men rose with a howl of anger when Walter Towne walked out on the stage. But they quieted down again as Dan Torkleson started to speak. It was a masterful display of rabble-rousing. Torkleson paced the stage, his fat body shaking with agitation, pointing a chubby finger no again and again at Walter Towne. He pranced and he ranted. He paused at just the right times for thunderous peals of applause. "This morning in my office we offered to compromise with these jackals," he cried, "and they rejected compromise. Even at the cost of lowering dividends, of taking food from the mouths of your wives and children, we made our generous offers. They were rejected with scorn. These thieves have one desire in mind, my friends -- to starve you all, to a man ; to destroy your company and your jobs. To every appeal they heartlessly refused to divulge the key to the lock-in. And now this man -- the ringleader who keeps the key word buried in secrecy -- has the temerity to ask an audience with you. You're angry men; you want to know the man to blame for our hardship." He pointed to Towne with a flourish. "I give you your man. Do what you want with him." The hall exploded in angry thunder. The first wave of men rushed onto the stage as Walter stood up. A tomato whizzed past his ear and splattered against the wall. More men clambered up on the stage, shouting and shaking their fists. Then somebody appeared with a rope. Walter gave a sharp nod to the side of the stage. Abruptly the roar of the men was drowned in another sound -- a soul-rending, teeth-grating, bone-rattling screech. The men froze, jaws sagging, eyes wide, hardly believing their ears. And then, in the instant of silence as the factory whistle died away, Walter grabbed the microphone. "You want the code word to start die machines again? Til give it to you before I sit down!" The men stared at him, shuffling, a murmur rising. Torkleson burst to his feet. "It's a trick!" he howled. "Wait 'til you hear their price -- "We have no price, and no demands," said Walter Towne. "We will give you the code word, and we ask nothing in return but that you listen for sixty seconds." He glanced back at Torkleson, and then out to the crowd. "You men here are an electing body -- right? You own this great plant and company, top to bottom -- right? You should all he rich -- because Robling could make you rich. But none of you out there is rich. Only the fat ones on this stage are -- but I'll tell you how you can be rich -- " They listened, then. Not a peep came from the huge hall. Suddenly, he was talking their language. "You think that since you own the Company, times have changed. Well, have they? Are you any better off than you were? Of course not. Because you haven't learned yet that oppression by either side leads to misery for both. You haven't learned moderation. And you never will, until you throw out the ones who have fought moderation right down to the last ditch. You know who I mean. You know who's grown richer and richer since the Switchover. Throw him out, and you too can be rich -- " He paused for a deep breath. "You want the code word to unlock the machines? All right. I'll give it to you." He swung around to point a long fingter at the fat man sitting there. M uch later, as Waiter Towne and Jeff Bates pryed the trophies off the wall of the big office, the lawyer shook his head sadly. "Pity about Dan. Gruesome affair." Walter nodded as he struggled down with a moose-head. "Yes, a pity -- but you know the boys when they get upset." "I suppose so." The lawyer stopped to rest, panting. "Anyway, with the newly-elected Board of Directors, things will be different for everybody. You took a long gamble." "Not so long. Not when you knew what they wanted to hear. It just took a little timing." "Still -- I didn't think they'd elect you Secretary of the Union. It just doesn't figure -- " Walter Towne chuckled. "Doesn't it? I don't know. Everything's been a little screwy since the Switchover came. And in a screwy world like this -- He shrugged, and tossed down the moose-head. thing figures." #   We have hardly begun to understand and conquer the universe. Discoveries of the future will make the discoveries of our time seem despicable and superficial. -- James Sumner what Is Your Science I. Q.? correct answer, and you are very good if you can hit a score of #. The correct answers are on page #. #. The period of nineteen years after which the new moon and the full moon fall on the same days of the year again is called the cycle. #. Which of the following isn't a star, and what is it? Procyon, Mizar, Spica, Regulus and Ganymede. #. Radio and waves travel at the same speed. #. What is the name given to an especially bright meteor or fireball? #. An escape velocity of miles per hour is necessary for a ship to leave the Earth's atmosphere. #. How many years pass in the cycle of Encke's comet? #. The Heaviside Layer is another name for the Earth's #. In which constellation can the star Vega be found? #. The regular spacing of the planets was the basis for the hypothesis contained in Law. #. Nereid is one of the moons of Neptune. Can you name the other? #. A first-magnitude star is times brighter than a sixth-magnitude star. #. What is the name of the comet which has a period of two thousand years? #. Which of the planets rotates most rapidly? #. Aeroembolism is due to the formation of bubbles in the blood and spinal fluid brought about by rapid ascent into high altitudes. #. The largest number of asteroids lie in the area between Jupiter and what other planet. #. The planet which requires eighty-four Earth years for one circuit of the sun is #. Deutrons are the nuclei of which element? #. The technical term for the ultimate "heat death" of the universe is "maximum " #. Mach numbe one is equal to how many per hour? #. What is the chief constituent of the atmosphere of the moon Titan? A new rocket designed to carry # pounds of scientific instruments # miles into the air at one shot was recently revealed. The # mile altitude is expected to set a record high for a single stage rocket. Called Aerobee-Hi rockets, they will be pressure sealed so hat samples of air taken high in the atmosphere will not be contaminated by gases leaking out of the rocket. Such leakage has spoiled all measurements of this kind from Viking rockets, since they were literally flying in an envelope of their own gases. Most promising development in rocketry so far, cost of the Aerobee-Hi is only one-tenth that of a Viking. allow control where poisonous insecticides could not be used. Seeing this growth-inhibiting method as a weapon of the future, the researchers have found that chemicals such as colchicine prevent cell division, and others slow down insect metabsistant flies were more affected than normal ones. Only three percent of the resistant-flies reached normal adulthood. Every camera in the nation is a potential radiation detector when equipped with a new device which can convert them without interfering with their normal function. The detector employs a photosensitive sheet which will record a light spot on a black background when subjected to X-ray or gamma radiations. In operation, short-wave electromagnetic radiations pass through an intensifier which emits a fluorescent light that causes the light spot. The radiation-caused light is readily distinguished from normal film fogging or from that caused by light leaks. A new concept of insect control, keeping insects from growing up, is being evolved by scientists in the U.S. Department of Agriculture. It promises fewer house-flies and safer foods. Using chemicals, the aim of the new idea is to keep insect pests from ever becoming adults and layoutright. Preliminary tests indicate that these chemicals can be used flies. In addition, they are "nontoxic" to humans and animals and Troops will be better equipped for desert warfare of the future because of an eighteen month research project recently concluded by geographers. The work was done in the Mojave Desert and included learning everything possible about the climate, vegetation and topography of a typical desert. To gather roundthe-clock weather data, # small weather stations were erected at various elevations. For ten blistering days one man lived alone at the summit of the moimtains to gather such data, ome facts uncovered were: desert mountain summits are warmer than desert floors on winter nights; siunmertime humidity is higher than winter humidity; and dark colored basaltic rock is # degrees hotter in summer than light hued granite. Commercial heliports which may someday spring up in every city in the country will probably be on the ground and smaller than a city block. Such a field will measure about # by # feet. Except for parking room, most of the area will be set aside for emergency landing space. The ideal heliport will have a wide unobstructed street-level approach, and stationing the field near railroad yards, parks, ponds, waterways, or widely divided highways would permit this ease of approach. Suburban heliports of the future will probably be found near parkresorts or large factories. Since # of all intercity traffic is for distances of less than # miles per trip, such a network of heliports would be the ideal traffic solution. The U.S. has only one such port in operation and is far behind Europe, where seven already exist, with an eighth under construction in Paris. A method of decoying fish to swim where one wants them to by using artificial odors was recently introduced, and someday such fish as salmon may be induced to retiun to a designated spawning area by use of such imderwater perfume. The decoying operation employs the theory t animals and whose lU migratory habits depend on their sense of smell, can be reared to return to a specific area impregnated with a false scent. One method of diverting salmon from their home spawning grounds would be to utilize odors to which salmon are particularly sensitive. A group of fry could be conditioned to such an artificial odor during hatchery rearing, and remembering the odor, could several years later be reoriented from their natural undesirable spawning groimds to another location downstream; thus avoiding problems of water pollution, power dams and the diversion of waters by irrigation. In addition to helping the fish return home safely, decoying fish may be valuable in getting them away from given areas where they are interfering with sonar contact between a ship and an underwater target. More accurate spotting of brain tumors by radioactive arsenic is now possible with an improvement in the detecting method. Radioactive arsenic is injected into the patient's veins in amounts so small that it cannot poison the patient; he then lies down for one hom while twin scintillation counters move back and forth scanning the head line by line. Arsenic concentrates in brain tumors and the machine outlines these areas. This new sensitive machine will increase the accuracy of the procedure from the # of the older method to # to #. If a nuclear war is ever fought, children would do well to get and keep an accurate record of how far they were from ground zero at the time, and of how much radiation fall-out struck them. Genetic mutations may be recessive traits, in which case the damage would not show unless two persons carrying the genes married. Then the children would show the effects of the radiation damage to their parents genes. To get a marriage license in the future, a couple might have to produce records showing that at least one of them could not have been previously exposed to a potentially genedamaging amount of radiation, just as their parents had to show a negative blood test for syphilis. The atomic powered car is not yet at hand, but an atomically processed fuel for your present car is in the works. Standard Oil recently gave a preview of its new experimental project for using atomic energy in the production of new petroleum products. Whether atomic radiation mixed with oil will provide a new super-gasoline or a way of making gasoline cheaper are two of the things the company hopes to determine. Preliminary experiments have shown that gamma rays produced by a cobalt pipe cause chemical reactions with petroleum products heretofore beyond the reach of science. The atomic generated gamma rays have also indicated that they may open ways to the production of gasoline without the use of heat, pressure or catalysts. Energy from the sun and the atom, may someday convert salt water into fresh water. Looking into the future, scientists have tried several new methods. One distills salt water by rapid-boiling it in a vacuum,pother is electro-ion migration, likened to electroplating. In this process, molecular fragments of the dissolved salts are electrically extracted through thin membranes. The OTix of realistic accomplishment in demineralization of saline water seems to be the prohibitive cost. More inexpensive power is needed. Nuclear reactors, low grade fuel or solar stills, which harness the sun's power, seem to be the only possible answers to an urgent problem in arid and semi-arid areas covering a third of the Earth's land surface. Hundreds of thousands of simultaneous telephone conversations may soon be crammed into a single two-inch pipe and transmitted long distances on wave frequencies higher than any ever used in communication before. The capacity of the new circular wave-guide exceeds that of the most modem coaxial cable, which can handle only # two way calls at a time. The frequencies of the microwaves used in the new method range from # to # megacycles. In addition, the number of different frequencies this tubing can carry is so huge that all conventional transmission wavelengths of all media could be fitted into its spread with ease. Tiny super-high frequency waves that move through the new pipe have been found to aid the efficiency of the transmission, and the loss of energy is so small that boosters would only be necessary every # miles. rnp you science fiction fans who rUli like to sit down with a puzzle that offers a real challenge -- that will test your knowledge of things scientific and otherwise -- grab a copy of this newest and latest magazine of puzzles by expert composers for expert puzzle doers -- crossword P U Z Z L E S It's chock-full of some of the most interesting crosswords, diagramless puzzles, crostics and cryptograms to be found anywhere in America... the kind guaranteed to keep your wits nimble and your pencil busy. Weeks of fun in every issue! At ail newsstands -- Only #c Sir: Tm rather fed-up with the idea of time travel and telepathy as portrayed in S-F. In my opinion they are scientific absurdities. Consider the energy required for a person to travel back in time to say, # months ago. The whole of creation must then be returned to that date. Planets would have to be reversed in their courses, people would have to be shifted perhaps thousands of miles in order that they could occupy the same places they had # months before. Matter which was present on that person, but since had been lost, must be returned to him from various distances... and so violently as to kill him instantly. The energy required for all this is so great, that on this count alone time travel is a scientific absurdity. The contention that in time travel everything is continuously extended both forwards and backwards in time is merely uncontrolled speculation having no facts to support it which are amenable to verifying tests, and therefore must be ruled mathematical fantasy. Even if this was true, my argument on energy is not weakened for it is inconceivable that the time scale of a minute part of the whole of creation could be altered so as to accelerate that part into the future or into the past without the remainder of creation being similarly affected. A considerable factor of uncertainty would be introduced which would make nonsense of all history and even of individual memories. Day by day predictions of the motion of planets would be rendered unreliable to say the least. Telepathy is also being mangled. True telepathy is a transmission of feelings and nothing more. Alarm, fear, hate, anger, pity, love, amusement... these are emotional responses that can be "sent." Words or pictures are not transmitted. The scientific mind cannot admit telepathy until what passes between two people can be identified. We know the brain produces electric currents and the possibility that these may affect another must be conceded but in cases where we are asked to believe exchanges of complex verbal and pictorial telepathy there is a lack of explaining factors to substantiate it. What passes cannot be matter or energy because they cannot be produced by something which is abstract, and they are the only means of communication that we know. It is also inconceivable a telepath can detect simultaiieoiisly in the brain of another a series of multiple braincell impulses of different strengths and with different routes in that brain. Only the impossible is absurd, and any sober scientific view must be that only emotional telepathy is possible, all other forms being impossible. Cordially, G. W. Walton England Anyone care to take up the cudgel in defense of timetravel and telep athy? We'd be glad to offer part of the column for argument. Your new Masthead "Worlds Of Science Fiction" is much more eyecatching. was the best in the Jime issue. Glad to see the letter column is back in the form of "Hue And Cry." Bring back "Personalities In Science Fiction." It was a good feature. Sincerely, Alan Cheuse Perth Amboy, N. J. Thanks for the bouquet. We've got another excellent department coming up that will beat anything you've yet seen for news about personalities events, etc. Dear Mr. Quinn: IF has really been improving steadily and now compares with the best. Book Service Phone GRomercy ## We Sk All current Americon Science Fiction in Book Form and carry current Magazines and Pocket Books. Dear Mr. Quinn : I just picked up the June issue of IF to find out when the next issue will be out and... lo and behold! June #th! What happened? How come IF has gone back to bimonthly? I rate IF number one as a science fiction magazine and am puzzled over the return to bimonthly form. I surely hope it's nothing permanent. I couldn't stand having my IF reading cut in half. Please let's get IF back to a monthly. Sincerely yours, Charles F. Durang Libertyville, #. A large selection of Science Fiction is avoiloble of British Books, Mogozines ond Pocket Editions. We corry a lorge stock of Bock Issues of Science Fiction Mogozines. You have our word for it. As soon as it seems at all feasible, we'll be back on the stands each and every month. Dear Mr. Quinn: I have been a science fiction fan for several years now, and it no longer comes as a shock to be able to buy the June issue of IF in the middle of April. But it does make I am. You predict for the future, bathing suits made of the new stretch yams. These are currently being advertised by Cleveland's larger, more progressive department stores. That doesn't bother me so much because they are comparatively new. What does amaze me is your reference to supermarket doors that open as you approach them. Such things have been standard in and around Cleveland for a good number of years, and are taken for granted. So much so, that many people walk right into doors that are not the self-opening type, or those that are but aren't working properly, without a thought of putting out a hand or foot to push the door open. If these things are in the future, and I am taking them for granted, I imagine that the big question is: am I in the future, or are you in the past, and if so, why? Confusingly yours, Mrs. Alan Kopperman Euclid, Ohio P.S. Don't get mad, this is all in fun. I ran into an old-style door the other day and referred to it as old-fashioned. Your magazine made me wonder. Cleveland hereby gets our nomination as the 'Cradle of the Future. Seriously, though we'll try not to be so "old-fashioned" in future issues. Dear Editors: new ideas both nicely handled, are unusual to say the least, in the welter of stf-stufF we've been getting lately on all sides. "Franchise" by Azimov and "Mold of Yancy", by Dick, were excellent. They make up for a lot of cliches that have been kicking around lately. Food for some pretty intense thinking too. If we aren't careful, these things could happen to us... and I'll bet we'd hardly know it imtil it was too late. Sincerely, G. M. Fox Portland, Oregon Thanks for backing up our own opinions. For more "thought-provokers" look for the "Happy Clown" and "Message from Space" in our December issue. # -- Light. # -- Bolide. # -- #. # -- # years. # -- Ionosphere. # -- Bootes. # -- Bode's. # -- Triton. #I -- #. # -- Donati's. # -- Jupiter. # -- Nitrogen. # -- Mars. # -- Uranus. # -- Heavy hydrogen. # -- Entropy. # -- #. # -- Methane. Why were these men great? How does anyone -- man or woman -- achieve greatness? Is it not by mastery of the powers within ourselves ? Know the mysterious world within you ! Attune yourself to the wisdom of the ages ! Grasp the inner power of your mind ! Learn the secrets of a full and peaceful life ! Benjamin Franklin, statesman and inventor. Isaac Newton, discoverer of the Law of Gravitation... Francis Bacon, philosopher and scientist... like many other learned and great men and women... were Rosicrucians. The Rosicrucians existence for centuries. Today, headquarters of of mail annually to all parts of the world. No Ob. A non. San Jose, California, U.S.A. Please send nie the free book. The Mastery of Life, which explains how I may learn to use my faculties and powers of mind.  # A Continued from other side Selected stories from Fantasy and Science-Fiction Magazine. The woman who became her own daughter... atomic power from beans... etc. Tub. ed. S#. #. about the life of the future -- edited by Frederik Pohl. Absorbing, masterfully written glimpse into tomorrow. Pub. Ed. #. ing authors of Wonders of Earth and Man... of startling inventions... of Outer Space... of Far Traveling, etc. Pub. Ed. #. years of Astounding ScienceFiction Magazine selected by editor, John W. Campbell. Jr. Pub. Ed. #. A sparkling crop of weird tales selected by August Derleth. The man who Invented a solid vacuum, and many others. Pub. Ed. #. of These Complete New Masterpieces of World-renowned stories by H. G. Wells. Jules Verne, Conan Doyle. Huxley, Philip Wylie, Poe, P. Scott Fitzgerald. J. P. Priestly, etc. Pub. Ed. #. Fiction masterpieces described here, a # to # value -- yours for only #. Plus (See Other Side.) Two books are your gift for joining, and one is your first Club selection. Every month, you will be offered the "cream" of the new # and # Science-Fiction books -- for only #, You take only those books you really want -- as few as four a year. This offer may have to be withdrawn. Dept. IF# Garden City, N. Y. Dept. IF#, Garden City, N. Y. Please rush the # books checked below, as my gift books and flr.st selection. Bill me only I for all # (plus shipping charge), and enroll me as a member. Every month send free bulletin describing coming selection. For each book I accept. I will pay only I plus shipping. I need take only four books during each year I am a member and may resign at any time after accepting # selections. # days, pay nothing and this membership will be cancelled.  Across Space Frontier  Assignment in Tomorrow  Astounding Anthology n Best from Fantasy and Science-Fiction  Omnibus of ScienceFiction  Portals of Tomorrow Q Treasury of Science Fiction Classics City Zone State Selections in Canada # plus shipping. Address Science-Fiction Club. # Bond, Toronto. (Good only in U. S. A. and Canada.) Opportunity to Have Youp with the First Company Embarking on Commercial Flights to the Moon! coupon on other side to become a member of The Science-Fiction Book Club... and receive your bona fide Moon-touryou are among the first to apply for a reservation to the moon. It will in no way commit you to make the voyage. It simply means that your name is being held on file to be turned over to the first company making trips to the moon. Your reservation will include fascinating facts to amaze your friends : your weight on the moon... a Rocket-Ship Schedule. Like your interest in Science-Fiction books, your wallet-size reservation will bo evidence of your adventurous spirit... your imagination... your interest in the # of the exciting books shown here -- for only #. Fill out the coupon -- and receive with membership Moon-Tour Reservations, Secretary j Science-Fiction Book Club J Reservation.  My Reservation, which will be printed on a handy, I wallet-size card, will include my actual Moon weight I and a complete Rocket-Ship Flight for the Moon,  Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn. I will in no way be  committed to make a voyage.  Honored Unless Filled Out and  Signed on the Reverse Side, I  a hypothetical planet with a ring system similar to that of Saturn. Since the rings are separated by a very wide gap, it is possible that the satellite group is both numerous and complex. The one on which we are hypothetically standrng is composed of frozen methane and ammonia and a glacier of this ice is flowing into the canyon in the foreground. The sun of this system is a type M, red giant and the reflected rays have vaporized some of the methane-ammonia ice on the far horizon, turning it to fog and ice. All Stories New and Gmplete H# NS N# by James McKimmey, Jr. I '"Heavyweight Champion of the World" by Kelly Frees  I (See page #) s IF is published bi-monthly by Quinn Publishing Company, Inc. Volume #, No. #. Copyright # by Quinn Publiing Co., Inc. Office of publication, # Lord Street, Bunalo, New York. Entered as Second Class Matter at Post Office, Buffalo, New York. Subscription # for # issues in U.S. and Possessions; Canada # for # issues; elsewhere #. Allow four weeks for diange of address. All stori appearing in this magazine arc fiction; any similarity to actual persons is coincidental. Not responsible for unsolicited artwork or manuscripts. #c a copy. Printed in U.S.A. Next issue on sale December # th seems an appropriate one, is a takeoff on Olaf Stapledon's famous superman novel. Odd John, It is, I hope, an auspicious take-off, and that the items reported here will be as interesting as the source of the title. For instance, the original title by Stapledon -- whose first middle the better known Olaf -- was John Alive, In the the early summer of #, in a sedate but modern home in Simon's Field, Caldy, West Kirby, Wirral, England, with Northern Wales in the background, the charming widow of the late Olaf Stapledon, who was also his first cousin, let me hold in my own two hands the holoscript of Alive", known for the last two decades as Odd John (except in France where it was translated as "Just A Superman"). The handwriting was small, precise, almost Lovecraftian, and covered sheets of paper the same size as his eventually printed book. Dr. Stapledon had even painted his own concept of his homo superior, John of the great, darkly luminous, impenetrable eyes, the frontal lobes of power, and the surprisingly woolly white skullcap of close-cropped hair. John Alive, living on after his creator had gone. It is one of the great regrets of my life that Olaf Stapledon died before I had the experience of meeting him. In the unimaginably distant days of the Last Men, he will still be remembered as one of the "First Men of Fantasy." And now to genre: dear old genre! What would we do without it, with or without italics? And aficionado! I sometimes wonder how we struggled through the first # years of Scifi, we petrifying old pioneers, without knowing we were aficionados of a genre! And how would we ever have had half our anthologies, I wonder, after the atom, if Conklin  Co. (of fellow anthologists) hadn't happened on Destination and Operation and Project and Mission? (Come to think of it, wonder why we never had an atomic anthology called Mission: Fission,) Someday, if enough of you indicate that it interests you, I will discuss origins of terms like "stf" and "fen" and "egoboo" and "crifanac"; and even "gafia". There's a new one just taking hold: shlue, which is shock value run together like glue. the University of Gemsback, majoring in #th Century Motion Pictures, writing in the year # quotes an obscure scienti-film critic for his term paper on "The Sci-Fi Cinema Factor and the Interplanetary Dream", Courtesy of Tourmalin's Time Travel Service, a FK)rtion of this criticism is reprinted here from the century old collectors' item, IF Magazine for December, #: If one hundred years from now (Ackerman reported) man has still not conquered space, historians -- and s.f. dodderers with century-long memories -- can point accusingly to "Conquest Of Space" as the film that sabotaged rocket flight. I don't know who would want to fly to Mars after seeing this painful picture. In fact, I don't know who'd want to risk seeing another interplanetary film after "Conquest," except diehards like me. Maybe, as Eric Frank Russell and other voices have said, there are space people among us who want us to stay on Earth, and a picture like this wretched vehicle is an excellent way of discouraging the susceptible. Take the portrayal of the space cadets in this betrayal of the interplanetary dream: a more imlikely, ill-assorted collection of (s) crewballs you've seldom seen. When I am President, the first law I'm going to pass is that no Texans or Brooklynites can go on space flights -- at least not as comic reliefs in movies. In the first place, they are no relief. (Is a second place really necessary?) A cogent friend of mine, connoisseur of films, called this picture "criminal", by which he did not mean arresting. Not since the mayhem of Four-Sided Triangle has murder most foul been perpetrated on what should have been a surefire hit. I don't think people are stupid, but the guys who make the movies think they are. When we consider that all the movies are really intended to be big box-office, and that Hollywood is convinced the way to make a paying picture is to put a lot of money into it, it follows, does it not, the way to succeed is to make them lavish and stupid? All we really need is a little creative effort and integrity. But who's going to do it? We should have something if Bradbury and Paul Gregory get together on Fahrenheit #I for the legitimate stage. Or Jose Ferrer Demolished Man. Or someone with a big soul (and pocketbook to match) signs me to turn Van holding my breath on To Walk the Night, the modem s.f. suspense chased by Hollywood. tion Moon, Things to Come and The Day the Earth Stood Still comes to me in a melodic melange from my front room as I sit in my office typing this. No, it's not canned vibrations arriving via phonograph records or tapes, but the real Jerome Drexel Bixby, whose talented ivory-tickling fingers have also typed many a fine sci-fi story. He's a house guest for the week... Longest house guest record: Tetsu Yano from Japan -- # months... (Continued on page #) How can you get a man to go through the rigors of hell and learn to live with death at his elbow if you take away the dream? Amos defended his dream and found it a colossal... B y daylight the room was small and shabby. Amos had outgrown it, as he had outgrown the bed. But at night it still had its magic. When the Venetian blinds were closed and the light was ofl, the stars still came out fluorescently, and the planets, spinning gently in the smallest breath of air, seemed real and close. And the moon -- pocked and familiar -- a boy could almost reach up and touch it. Best of all was the S.#. -- the Doughnut -- glowing right above the bed, and the boy, lying there, was free-falling in space, one of the heroes, one of the spacemen. The boy was grown now, and the sun bleached the stars into tiny spots of paint and exposed the black thread that held up the planets and the S.#. The time for dreams was over. She bustled around the room. The models spun and swayed. "You'll want this," she said brily, holding out the book. He took it, the thumbed, battered Conquest of Space wiA the achingly beautiful Bones tells, and put it back on the shelf. "Gosh Mom he pleaded, trying to make her understand. "I don't need that. I'm through with all this. Give this junk to Tommy." "The way you talk -- a person would think you weren't coming back," she complained, her voice breaking in the middle. "Now, Mom." He slipped an arm around her shoulder and squeezed. "We've talked this out. I'm grown up; I'm not a boy any more. All these things" -- he dismissed them with a careless hand -- "I've got to put away. But I'll be back on leaves and Earth-duty and things." Shes faded, he thought. Since he had been at the Academy. It had been a long time since he had thought she was the most beautiful woman in the world. His mother had grown old. It had been a sad trip home. Maybe it had been a mistake, coming home. Maybe it would have been better to have refused the leave. He had wanted to. But that wouldn't have been fair, either. He folded over the thin, blue nylon of the spacepack and zipped it shut on his few personal belongings. Her eyes misted. Irritation crossed his face. "Now what's the matter?" "You're taking so little," she said and caught her lower lip between her teeth. "You know the weight limit," he said sharply. Then his voice softened. "Ten pounds. To put that on the Doughnut takes sixteen hundred pounds of fuel. Whatever else I need will be there. The Air Force won't let me go naked." "I know." Ie sighed. She brightened determinedly. "If you're packed, come right downstairs. I saved a piece of pie." He slung the spacepack over his arm the way spacemen did. As they went down the stairs, he put his left arm clumsily around her waist. "Now, Mom, I don't want anything to eat, honest. I couldn't eat a bite." "You aren't going away from home empty, young man!" "Sure, Mom. All right. Whatever you say." He dropped the bag on a chair in the hall and let himself be led into the kitchen. She watched him eat, her eyes never leaving his face. He forced down the apple pie, not wanting it, fighting the eagerness to be gone, to be on his way. The kitchen was a place peculiarly his mother's. There she was in command of things; there she had the courage to say what she had been wanting to say. "I just can't understand why anyone would want to go flying off into nothing. Seems like there's enough trouble right here on Earth without hunting up more. Every time I turn on the television" -- her eyes moved to the repeater screen flat against the kitchen wall -- "it seems there's some new crisis or the cold war is colder or hotter..." "Oh, Mom! You know I've always wanted -- ever since I was a little boy, dreaming, playing rockets..." "Little boys I can understand. Grown men are something else again. Like you said upstairs, you expect them to put away childish things. Why? -- that's all I want to know..." "Because it's there," he said, knowing that to her this was no reason at all. But it was the reason men had always given their women for chasing a dream, not really able to explain. "It's important," he went on evenly, "tackling something really worth the doing. It's the dream -- like the one that led the settlers into the wilderness, that pulled the wagon trains across the prairies. It's where men are making the future, men who really count, men like Rev McMillen and Bo Finch and Frank Pickrell. It's putting something out there where nothing has ever been -- the Doughnut. Courage built it out of dreams. Guts holds it up. And that's just the beginning. It's the future out there." "It's death out there." Absently, she brushed a wisp of graying hair back into place. "Like McMillen in his tomb, frozen, going around and around the Earth forever. The first man out; the first man to die. That should have warned us. It used to be war that took our men from us; now it's that." She looked up at the ceiling as if she were staring through it, as if she could see the little, plastic-and-nylon wheel spinning up there in the sun, where the sky is black and death is never far away. "Good-by, Mom." He stood up abruptly, kissed her. Her lips were cold. "Don't worry. I'll be all right." He walked quickly through the house, taking his cap from the closet shelf, picking up the spacepack from the chair. He stopped outside, hesitated, and looked back. Already the house seemed unreal, fading, like everything in it. Even his mother. He looked up, not seeing the small, swift glint of the Doughnut, not expecting it. The satellite wasn't visible here until #. He walked a little, letting the Earth tug at him for the last time, thinking that this was fantasy now, soon it would be all as unreal as fiction. Out there was his reality. Within a few hours he would step out onto the vast concrete landing strip at Cocoa, Florida. It was the beginning of the great adventure. ingly old and ill. Amos compared the reality with the pictures at the Academy; The Cieneral: shaking hands with Pickrell, facing the Senate sub-committee, giving a memorial wreath to an anonymous pilot to place in orbit for all those men who had given their lives... But then General Beauregard Finch was an old man, four years past retirement age, almost seventy. The six years since McMillen's fatal flight had aged the General, but with them he had built his own monument. Above him circled the Doughnut to which he had sacrificed his health, his life -- as other men had sacrificed their health and their lives. It was worth it. It was the dream. In the little waiting room near the platform, the General stood, still straight, still wearing proudly the honorary Doughnut insignia on his shoulder. "Youre going out there, Danton, taking with you all our honor, all our pride. We've never sent out a bad one, a coward or a fool. I don't think we've started now. Only a few men have preceded you. Only a few will follow. It will always be a hard, lonely business out there. But there's nothmore worth the doing." The General had never been out there. By the time it was possible, he was too old. "What do they call you now -- you cadet replacements?" "Pick's pick, sir." "Good enough. That's what you are -- picked men, selected and sorted and pruned, over and over. The best of the best. You've had the finest training we could give you. Remember though: it's never enough -- the picking or the training. The job is always bigger than the man. What you've gone through is nothing to what is waiting for you." Amos smiled politely. The General could call it nothing, the Academy selection and training program : he had never been through it. Knowing it now, Amos could not have forced himself to go through it again: the unceasing torment of brain and body, the endless tests of physical and pschological endurance, the perpetual cramming of an infinite amount of information into a finite brain... Call it nothing. Call it five years of hell. Out of # applications, # had been accepted. After the intense physical and psychiatric tests, sixty were left. They received their reward: five years of training. Five years of fighting the books, of taking g's in the centrifuge while trying to function as a stage-three crewmember, of working out in the "whirligig," of living in the "tank" with thirteen other men for weeks without end -- knowing that the psychologists were watching... And always the growing pressure of failure as classmates dropped out, were culled, disappeared, were mentioned no more. Until there were five left to graduate. Five out of #. Those were odds you refused to face when you started. The only way to survive was not to think about it, to take each trial as it came, and when the gs built too high, to remember the dream and fight once more and once again. There couldn't be anything tougher than that. The reality would be fulfillment. "Go on!" the General growled. "Get out there! I talk too much. The ship won't wait, not even for a general." He was coughing as Amos, in flight helmet and coveralls with the webbed harness over it, strode across the broad platform toward the tapering spire of the ferry. It was a typical three-stager, gleaming in its white, ceramic coating, its clean lines broken by stabilizer fins and the broad, ungainly wings on which the third stage would glide through the atmosphere to a powerless landing. The elevator, part of the giant, hammerhead crane, lifted Amos smoothly up the side of the ship. Across the hull of the third-stage, beside the vast expanse of wing, were painted these black words: Amos read them and frowned. ' Service irreverences were unavoidable, but they belonged within the service, not out where the public could share them. To call the S.# the Doughnut was not too bad -- he did it himself -- but this name left a bad taste in the mouth. The hot hand of air friction could not erase it too soon. The thick, square door stood open and empty. Amos shrugged and stooped through the air lock into the familiar cabin of the M-# stage-three. He climbed the rungs of the ladder toward the one unoccupied seat. On this trip he would be radio op. The others were in their places -- captain, co-pilot, navigator, engineer -- their smoothly helmeted heads like bowling balls precariously balanced on seat backs. One of the bowling balls turned, became a face, hard, disinterested. The captain. "Cadet-Trainee Danton, sir," Amos said, saluting crisply, "reporting for transportation." "Oh, God!" the captain groaned at the co-pilot. His head twisted back toward Amos. "WhereVe you been? You think we've got nothing better to do than wait for a lousy cadet? Oh, never mind! Get strapped down! We know -- old Bo was giving you speech #B: 'Words of advice and encouragement for cadets making their maiden trips: We've never sent out a bad one, a coward or a fool. I don't think we've started now.' " Flushing Amos lifted himself into the vacant chair and clicked his harness straps into place. They'd have been waiting anyway. Takeoff time wasn't for five minutes, "What's your specialty?" the captain asked. "Pilot, sir." "Watch, then. Maybe you'll learn something. Know any radio?" "Yes, sir." "Then this is an order: Keep your clammy hands off the instruments! Any communication that's necessary. I'll take care of. Understand?" "Yes, sir." "Plug in your earphones or not as you choose, but don't put on throat mikes. I don't want you fouling up the circuits." Amos's face was burning, but he clenched his teeth and said, "Yes, sir." The captain reached into an elasticized pocket beside his chair and pulled out a plastic bag. He dropped it to Amos. "Put it on." "I've had free fall, sir," Amos protested. "I won't need this." "You have, eh? How much?" "Almost seven minutes." "Eighty seconds at a time in a Keplerian orbit! Nuts! This time you'll get four hours just as a starter. Put it on! That's an order." Slowly Amos slipped the elastic behind his helmet and fitted the plastic ring over his mouth. It wasn't enough to come through the Academy. He had to prove himself all over again. "Engineer?" "Engineer check-off complete." "Navigator?" "Navigator check-off complete." "Go-pilot?" "Co-pilot check-off complete." "Radio op and captain's checkoff complete. Thirty seconds to blast-off." "You were a little rough on the kid, Skipper." "He can't learn any younger. Or much older, either. Twenty-five seconds." Amos twisted his head and looked out the unshielded windows of the canopy. Forget it, he told himself. There is always a Queeg, The services lured them, fed them made them strong. Nowhere else could they achieve satisfaction jo easily. "Fifteen seconds." The horizon was a gently curving arc of purple-blue above the grayblack of the sea. Within minutes now, the liberated third-stage would fight its way out of the atmosphere that scattered the blue of the sunlight and gave it to the sky. Within less than an hour, it would be in orbit, its velocity canceling Earth's gravity. Within a few hours, he would be in the Doughnut... "Five seconds." Anticipation flooded Amos's throat, choking, unbearable. This was what it had been about, the relentless pressures, the endless torment. This was it, about to happen... "Three -- two -- one..." The cabin began to rumble. Like a torch rising from the ground to light their way, flame shot into the night from the exhaust outlet. Amos could see it reflected from the astronomical dome and the radar saucers and the control tower, etching them into the blackness of the bay. "Engineering check -- all motors blasting." On the captain's control panel, a red eye opened. "And away we go!" said the captain, exultation in his voice. "Up, beast!" The cabin roared. The torch outside the window flamed intolerably. Amos squeezed his eyes shut, and the fine, strong net of acceleration pulled him into the seat cushions, fishhooking his cheeks down, tugging at his eyeballs. When he got his eyelids open again, orange-red dials were spinning in front of him, meaningless, the long hours in the centrifuge mock-up wasted. The net pulled, hard, inexorable. Amos tried to breathe, but his chest couldn't lift against the intolerable weight that held it down. Panic surged, cold, in his stomach, up his throat... A few seconds later, the net dissolved. The seat cushions, released, shoved Amos forward against the harness. His weight dropped from # pounds down to a little less than #. He drew a deep, shuddering breath and another. The first-stage had been dropped, its contribution made. Now the second booster was building its pressures, adding its acceleration to a speed that had already reached more than # miles per hour. Slowly the net drew down again. Again Amos's breathing grew difficult. He struggled for one more breath and one more. Then the net was down hard, and there was no more breath. Seconds passed. The pressure grew, never quite as hard as the first booster's nine gs but lasting longer. This time Amos went forty seconds without breathing. Then the second stage dropped away, and the pressure relented. Amos gasped for breath. The sky had turned velvet black. The stars were out : unwinking brilliants set in the velvet. The ship was forty miles high; it was traveling almost # miles per hour. Third-stage pressures were almost unnoticeable. They never climbed above three They broke into sunlight. His dazzled eyes squeezed shut against the sudden pain, swifter than the metal covers that slid over the canopy to protect it from the massive, unfiltered irradiation of the sun's ultraviolet that otherwise would soon discolor and cloud it. Afterimages danced in front of Amos's eyes, lasted for minutes. Before they faded, the motors cut out. The net released him completely, the seat cushion shoved, the harness caught him again... But he was falling, hurtling downward from a tremendous cliff, tumbling helplessly and unchecked into infinite depths... He clawed at the chair arms, gripped them until the veins stood out, ropy and blue, in the whiteness. His breath sucked in, rasping. He held it, every muscle braced for the impact... That never came. The pit was bottomless. It was illusion! The fall reflex. Babies have it; kittens, lowered suddenly, claw wildly for support. He was falling, he told himself. He was falling away from the Earth, coasting upwards at more than # miles per hour, without that resistance to ffie puU of gravity which conveys a sensation of weight. Slowly he let his breath sigh out. Slowly he relaxed stubbornly resisting muscles. He let himself fall. He opened his eyes and looked up, seeing the seats and helmets above him. For a moment it helped, and then his gravi-receptors told him that this was illusion -- there was no up, no down. He was falling in all directions at once. The cabin was spinning around him. He fought the sensation, fought the feeling of nausea that gripped his throat and stomach. His face perspired, grew cold. A moment later he was violently sick in the plastic bag. It was almost half an hour before the spasms ceased. Dimly, through his agony, he heard voices: "Fuel reserve... "Skin temperature one thousand..." "Velocity eighteen thousand four..." "Altitude..." "Cocoa. Check flight path..." "On the straight and narrow, Folly..." "Check. Keep us posted will you? Let's make this a nice easy ride -- papa's tired." H eat was a problem. By the time the third-stage left the last, thin traces of atmosphere behind, the temperature of the hull was # F. The refrigeration equipment, massive enough to cool a ten-story office building, labored to keep the cabin livable. It took four hours for the ship to reach equilibrium temperature. The crew couldn't sit back and sweat it out. They had jobs to do. In coasting to the #-mile altitude, the ship had dropped below orbital speed. Between them, by star sights and computations, the navigator and co-pilot determined the ship's altitude. The captain pressed a button on the arm of his chair. Slowly the pattern of stars shifted over the canopy. Once more the captain pressed the firing button. The ship gained a little more than # miles per hour. They were in orbit. The captain spoke to the Doughnut: "Ess one point two. Folly. In orbit but blind. Give us a hand," The radio was silent. "Doughnut!" the captain roared. "Get your finger out! Give us a bearing!" "Folly. Ess one point two. Thanks for the outburst. Gave us radio bearing. We now have visual. Following are corrections..." Amos hugged to himself the meaning of S.#; it was a mark of belonging, and at the moment it was all he had. The "S" stood for satellite, the "#" for the orbit, the "#" for the second satellite in that orbit. # The S.#.I was McMillen's tomb, leading the Doughnut by one hundred miles. With the setting of the sun, the shades had been rolled back from the canopy. The ship was in the shadow of the Earth. Amos stared into the star-speckled sky for his first glimpse of the Doughnut, but the night draped it with invisibility. It wasn't like the model that had hung above his bed; it didn't glow. "... and welcome back. Colonel," said the voice from the Doughnut. The captain growled and gave the ship a gentle boost. Slowly it began to flip over. Beneath them -- above them -- the night-dark Earth appeared and swept across the canopy and gave way again to the stars. In that glimpse Amos saw the reddish glow of a city and a star-brightness near it that swept away before he could identify it. He fought back nausea; terror whispered that he was one of those unfortunates who never got over their spacesickness. The cruising motor turned on again briefly. Weight and fall again. The tumbling stopped, Amos took a deep, relieved breath. Framed in the canopy now, drawing the eyes like a vision of heaven, was the gently spinning wheel of the Doughnut, one great spoke connecting the rim of the wheel, bulging to a hub in the middle. It was there at last, barely visible, gleaming dully in the starlight. Amos forgot his nausea. It had been a long way to come: twenty years of dreams and five years of hell and a thousand miles -- straight up. "If you're going over," the captain said, close, sarcastic, "I'd advise you to slip into something a little warmer. Otherwise you might find the last few feet the hardest." He floated past. Amos hated him. Hated his sarcasm. Cautiously he released his harness straps, holding desperately to the chair arm to keep from falling. It was no use trying to fool his gravireceptors and mechano-receptors; they knew he was falling. Slowly, trying to control his nausea, he floated above the ladder, puUing himself along it until he reached the rack of pressure suits. Clinging to a stanchion and struggling to fit his legs into the proper places was a far different experience than when his # pounds had been solid and maneuverable at the Academy. Finally he slipped his legs in and wedged one arm far enough down a sleeve to grab the hand controls. When he had the other arm in a sleeve, the captain was already dressed. He floated over impatiently to help with the fastenings and lower the helmet over Amos's head. "Radio working?" The voice was loud and harsh inside the suit. "Yes, sir." "Good. Check your suit." Amos stared at the face dimly visible through two face-plates of dark glass. The complete check took a good five minutes, and the suits were thoroughly inspected after and before every trip. "Yes, sir," he said grimly. Step by step, joint by joint, gauTO by gauge, control by control, attacnment by attachment, he went through the suit-check manual. "Suit check complete, sir." The captain turned curtly, swinging himself by a hook around a stanchion, and caught the air-lock controls. By the time the outer door opened in front of them, bulky stevedores were dumping boxes and crates and tubes out of the cargo compartment. The ship and the three taxis hitched to one broad wing were anchors for a vast spider web of cords and safety lines. Amos looked up into infinity. Slowly the ship tilted; infinity was a dark mouth gaping; he was falling... He grabbed for the edge of the doorway. Where his hands should have been, tools banged against the hull of the ship. The impact threw him forward, arms flailing helplesslyAs he cleared the side of the ship. Earth swimg into view beneath. His orientation twisted. Panic was a live thing in his chest and throat, fluttering icy wings. He was really falling now, falling helplessly and endlessly toward death. He fell through impalpable space unable to tear his fascinated eyes away from the dark Earth below. Something was clanging against his suit, but it was seconds before he could look to see what it was. The captain was clinging to the handle on the chest of his suit. Something clicked against his waist. The captain released him, swung around, began to recede. "Wait -- !" Amos began, fear distorting his voice, and then he saw that a nylon safety line trailed from him to the captain. The ship was only a few yards away. The captain pulled himself to it by his own line and snapped Amos's cord onto a ring beside the air-lock door. Slowly he reeled Amos in like a clumsy metal fish. "Elementary lesson number one," the captain said in a bored, unpleasant voice, "the moment you reach space: clip on." "Sorry, sir," Amos said, his suit dripping inside with sweat. "That's a word we don't have much use for out here. You seldom live to use it. There's your transportation." He pointed to one of the nearby sausages. "Jump!" Amos hesitated before the blank immensity that separated him from the taxi. Then he closed his eyes and jumped, his safety line unreeling behind. Twice he missed and had to haul himself ignominiously back. On the third try, he caught a hook in the handle on the nose of the little two-man ship and clung. The captain released his safety line. It disappeared into the reel at Amos's waist. A round door opened out for Amos. He slipped carefully into the taxi and crawled past the suited pilot to the seat behind. As Amos buckled himself down, the pilot turned awkwardly in the starlight coming through the canopy and touched his helmet to Amos's. "If your radio's on, turn it off." The words echoed hollowly. Amos pressed the button under his left index finger. "It's off," he said curiously. "Good. Privacy's hard enough to come by up here. No use broadcasting everything, eh? My name's Kovac. Lieutenant Max Kovac. You're new, aren't you?" "That's right. Cadet Amos Danton." "Glad to meet you, Amos. You don't know how glad. One more like you, and I get rotated. Then, watch out, fleshpots!" "You been here long?" "Twelve long months, brother. That's twelve years by any other calendar. Just let me get my feet back on the ground, and they couldn't drag me out again with a team of wild rockets. Excuse me, Amos. We're being paged." From the Hub of the Doughnut taxi jockeyed sickeningly back and forth on its two jets until it was aimed at the station and then the rear jet came on full. The Doughnut swelled in front of them like a balloon, spinning. With a single correction, Kovac slipped the taxi into one of the motionless, cagelike landing berths at either side of the a brief flare of the nose motor. Amos followed Kovac into the turret, his heart beating swiftly, expectantly. Beyond the air lock was the Hub. Suits hung in brackets around the curving wall like gleaming white monsters. He was inside the Doughnut, Amos thought, spinning with it, a part of it. He was here. Amos released his helmet clamps and took a deep breath of the Doughnut's air. It smelled like a machine shop inside a bathhouse. It stank. Kovac was already out of his suit. He helped Amos, saying easily, "Don't let it bother you, kid. It's tough your first time out. You can't coordinate because your muscles and senses are still adjusted to gravity. Everybody goes through it. You'll get the knack. Just don't let anybody kid you. At first we're all babies learning to walk." He slipped the suit and helmet into an empty bracket. "Come on," he said, launching himself toward one tunnel like a champion diver. He caught the landing net that lined one curving wall and pulled his mouth close to a microphone. "Weight control. Kovac coming in on B with new arrival Cadet Amos Danton. One-fifty?" he asked, gauging Amos's size. Amos nodded. After a moment a bored voice said, "Okay, you're balanced." They pulled themselves along the net, their weight slowly increasing, their bodies swinging gradually down toward the rim until, when they reached the little weight-control office, they were hanging from the net. Amos weighed forty pounds. In front of a compact computer and a schematic of the Doughnut dotted with small, magnetic markers sat an officer in wrinkled, khaki coveralls. "Danton?" he said, raising an eyebrow in cursory acknowledgment. "Welcome aboard, sucker." His face straightened as he stood up quickly, saluting. "Welcome back, Colonel." Someone brushed past Amos and turned, stripping off his flight helmet. It was the captain of the Folly, his hair a grizzled spacecut. "Danton, eh?" he said sourly. "Let me know when you're ready to go back in." He stooped through a doorway and was gone. The weight given him by the Doughnut's spin had made Amos's empty, aching stomach feel better, but now it felt like it had a brick in it. How can a man dream so long, he thought desperately, and have the reality turn out so horribly? With his helmet off, the captain of the Folly was unmistakable. He was Colonel Frank Pickrell, commander of the Doughnut. G eneral finch had been right: the selection and the training was never enough ; the job was bigger than the man; what Amos had gone through was nothing to what was waiting for him. To Amos it seemed that he had never been trained at all; he had to learn everything all over again. Nothing could have prepared him for no-weight. Nothing could have prepared him for the fierce, blazing reality of the sun, for the Earth like a giant, round picture framed in white haze and spanning half the field of vision, for the everyday discomforts of life aboard the Doughnut. There were never enough men for the jobs that had to be done if they were to justify the expense and sacrifice of putting the Doughnut into space and maintaining it there. The work day was # to # hours long, back-breaking, physical labor done under the most imcomfortable, most dangerous conditions men could endure and still stay sane. There was never enough space inside the Doughnut even for essentials. If it was a question of function or comfort, comfort lost. Amos's bunk was his for eight hours out of every twenty-four. The two other shifts were alloted to two other men. He would crawl into the bunk and lie there, too weary to sleep, and wonder if he would survive. There were times he was so homesick for the feel and look and smell of Earth that he cried into the thin pillow, pressing his face deep to muffle the sobs. There were times he would have sold his chance of promotion for ten hours of uninterrupted sleep. There were moments he almost screamed for the lost privilege of a few minutes completely alone. None of these were possible unless he gave up the dream. And that was the unthinkable. There were fleeting moments he would tell himself that this was fulfillment; he was out there at last -- out there in the Doughnut -- out with his dreams. So it meant privation and drudgery and psychological starvation -- he was out there, and it was wonderful. It wasn't often he could convince himself. Because this wasn't his dream. He was given twenty-four hours to acclimate himself, but it was seven days before he could keep down solids. Specialized personnel held down an extra job in maintenance when their regular shift was over, but Amos's specialty was piloting, and he wasn't trusted with a ship. He also knew navigation, engineering, and communications, but these, too, were out of the question. He was assigned to the permanent labor force. He was a janitor, a stevedore, a handyman. There was little dust. The airconditioning plant extracted the dirt and lint men brought with them from Earth, but Amos emptied wastebaskets, washed fingerprints off dials, screens, and viewports, scrubbed washrooms, polished brass... He answered all calls for working parties; at least once a day he went out to unload a ferry and push the freight to the waiting taxis. In his spare time, he maintained the temperature regulators. This was a perpetual chore that kept him clinging to the meteorbumper of the Doughnut for a minimum of six hours a day as he unscrewed the shutterlike regulators with the tools at the sleeve end of his suit and fastened a renovated regulator in its place. A week in the S.#, and Amos began to forget that he had ever known another life. A week : # revolutions of the Earth around the Doughnut; # sunrises, # sunsets, # nights. Food became less a task, more a gripe. Nausea came less frequently and almost .never reached the active stage. Strength returned unnoticed. Life became less a torment, more a drudgery. By the same token, it became less a dream, more a cold reality. Amos fought it. There were men to envy in the Doughnut, the observers and the scientists : physicists, aerologists, astro-physicists, astronomer... They were doing what they wanted to do in the best possible place to do it. Amos moved through the Doughnut, cleaning, watching, telling himself that this was the dream. For the physicists, conditions were available that had been unattainable or attainable only with great effort: weightlessness, virtually perfect vacuums, temperatures approaching absolute zero... The physicists were in a state of perpetual excitation, like their cosmic ray counters and ionization chambers. Underneath the radio ops were the aerologists and the slowly unraveling mystery of weather, seen now from above and outside. Weather had never been so predictable. Next came the observers, preempting two decks for their maps and telescopic enlargements, staring at closely guarded items of military interest. They reminded Amos of pathologists staring through microscopes at viruses and germs and cancer cells -- only the things under the lens knew they were being observed and acted accordingly. Beyond the computer and the telescope control panel was Celestial Observation, two decks tall, where photographs of distant nebulae were projected for study. A few hundred feet from the Doughnut, a free-floating telescope was taking the finest celestial photographs man had ever seen, free from the distortions of a wavering blanket of air. But, in a sense quite apart from their civilian status, the scientists were a class distinct from the Air Force officers and cadets who manned the Doughnut. The scientists had never left Earth. For them the S.# was an end in itself, created especially to serve their purposes. It existed as a platform on which to stand as they looked up or down or performed their specialized experiments. But Amos knew it was only a means, the first of a series of steps that led up to the moon, the planets, and the stars. The scientists had come out into space to look back at Earth. Amos had come out to reach the stars. That was the dream. T he thirtieth day, one month: Amos was in the Hub, weightless, stealing moments from sleep to practice doggedly the esoteric techniques of movement without the aid of semi-circular canals and otolith organs. He was climbing out of a suit when the loudspeaker said, "Cadet Danton. Report to Colonel Pickrell. Cadet..." In the middle of the A spoke, Amos passed Kovac. The lieutenant gave him a wink and an encouraging smile. "Don't let him make you mad, boy," he whispered. "The Fish is a cold and calculating man!" Amos smiled briefly. Across the airtight door was pressed the buzzer. The door swung open toward him. Pickrell stood behind it, his face set and hard. "Don't stand there like a fool," he said. "Come in." "Yes, sir." Amos clenched his teeth and stooped through the doorway. The cabin wasn't much bigger than a closet and not much better furnished. Like Pickrell, it was cold, gray, austere, built not for appearance or comfort but for efficiency. The only furniture was a bunk, a thin, one-legged table, and a chair; when folded flat against the wall, they left a walking space of almost six feet square. The aluminum table was let down. Pickrell slid behind it into the chair. "It cost over one thousand dollars in propellants alone to get you out here," he said flatly. "I'm ready to write that off. I'm not even concerned about the five hundred dollars a day it takes to maintain you out here. But you're taking up space a good man might fill. I'm sending you back in the next empty seat." "Why?" The word was expelled from Amos. "Some men have the equipment for this kind of life. You aren't one of them. You've been sick, haven't you?" "Once in a while," Amos admitted. "There's no such thing as spacesickness. It's fear. We don't have room out here for cowards." "What have you got against me. Colonel? You had it in for me the moment I stepped aboard the ferry. What is it: hate, fear, jealousy? I'm doing my work. If I had a chance I'd do more. Give me that chance. Colonel! Don't send me back before I -- His hands were wet. He looked down. Blood was trickling from the holes his fingernails had cut into his palms. "I'll tell you what I've got against you, Danton: you've got stars in your eyes. This isn't a job to you; it's a game. I know your kind; I've seen too many of you. You want to go on out. You gripe about the Air Force marking time on the moon project or the Mars ship or the Venus expedition. I'll tell you something, Danton : this is no glory road. This satellite is out here to look back on Earth, not out at the stars. But you'll never get that through your head. You're dangerous. You'll kill yourself. That I don't care about. But the chances are dangerously great that you'll take the rest of us with you. And that's my business. "Get out your nice, new spacepack, Danton. You're going in." Amos stood stiffly in front of the desk, feeling unreal, looking down at the salt-and-pepper spacecut with the bald spot at the crown. But for Pickrell, Danton had ceased to exist. Amos turned and pushed through the airtight door and let it pull shut behind him. This was the way it ended. This was the bursting of the dream. To destroy it took nothing as powerful or as dramatic as a meteor. A word pierced it, and it collapsed. But worse than that was the change in Pickrell. This wasn't the man he had idolized. This wasn't the hero, the second man out. This wasn't the man who had stood in the cabin of Rev McMillen's ship and stared down at the frozen body of the man who had led the way out and got lost in the cave of night, his fuel exhausted. This wasn't the man who had broadcast to the world from # miles up: "In accordance with my instructions and his own wishes, his body will be left here in its eternal orbit... "From this moment, let this be his shrine, sacred to all the generations of spacemen, inviolate. And let it be a symbol that Man's dreams can be realized, but sometimes the price is steep... Pickrell had changed, surely, not the dream. He had grown old and used up, and the dream was too much for him. And in his hands was the future of space flight. The dream was betrayed. Tears stung Amos's eyes. He blinked rapidly to keep them back. Tears weren't manly, but there are times when even a man must weep. When his eyes cleared, he was inside the Hub, and the idea was complete. Pickrell could send him home like a boy who has been naughty at school. Pickrell could break his heart. That was Pickrell's right; he was the Commander. But he couldn't send Amos home until Amos had one chance to do what he had been trained to do. It took only seconds to get into a suit. Amos pulled up the zippers, pulled down the helmet, clamped it to the suit. He refilled the oxygen tanks at the petcock against the wall. He selected a hand rocket from the rack and slipped through the air lock and out the turret. It was night; the Earth swam nearby, circling around him, giant and dark. When he released the landingberth cage, centrifugal force threw him gently away on a tangent. His stomach sank: he was completely on his own. There were no cords connected to anything: no umbilical cord, no apron string, no safety line. He spun slowly. The Doughnut swung into view ; the sausageshaped taxis were hitched along the inner edge of the wheel. He could have reached them by the spoke, but that took time. It was all he had, and there was little left... He was going to miss the rim. He swiveled the hand rocket to one side and gave it a cautious, one-second burst. It shoved him toward the rim, but it made him spin more rapidly. Quickly he turned the rocket in the opposite direction and let it push until his spin had stopped. Then he was spinning the other way, faster now. Panic gripped his throat; he couldn't swallow. How long did a hand rocket last? He couldn't remember, but once the fuel was exhausted, he had lost all chance of helping himself. He closed his eyes to shut out the vast, pancake disk of the Earth flipping crazily over and over; he tried to think. All he could remember was his Academy instructor saying, "Keep it against your belly button! Belly button, I said!" That was it. All force had to be exerted through his center of gravity -- roughly the navel -- or it created spin. He opened his eyes, swung the rocket to the right, and gave it a flicker of a burst. His spin slowed. Another flicker. His spin almost stopped. That was good enough, because the rim of the giant wheel was only two arm-lengths away. When he was faced away from the Doughnut, he pressed the rocket to his navel and fired briefly. As he passed the rim, he caught the line of a taxi with one hook and let himself slide along it imtil the taxi stopped him. Its hydrazine and nitric acid gauges stood at only half full. He took a deep breath and launched himself toward the next taxi in line. This time his reaction flight was perfect. One burst turned him to face the taxi, a second, in the opposite direction, stopped his rotation, a third killed his forward speed. This one had just been refueled. Amos unsnapped the hitching line and let the taxi drift tangentially away from the Doughnut. He was weightless, but he had a ship under him. He had power. He had a goal. Before the chance was gone, he was going to pay a final tribute to a dream. He was going to visit the icy tomb of Rev McMillen. T he tomb was in the same orbit as the Doughnut, but one hundred miles ahead. He had to head in the right direction, where there was no simple method of determining direction. He had to compute distance traveled, where even fully equipped ships found that difficult. He had to increase speed, when every increase in speed meant an increase in altitude. And if he strayed off course by just a few minutes of a degree at the start, he would be miles from his goal at the end. There were no instruments in the taxi, no built-in octants, no patent logs, no computers... Taxis were built for short hauls when both ends of the journey were always in view. Two gunsight telescopes were fixed immovably at eye level, one pointing straight forward, the other straight back. The controls were crude: two sticks, one at each side of the pilot's chair, firing the front and the rear rockets, which swiveled within a limited arc in response to the movement of the sticks. The throttles were buttons on top of the sticks. The taxi was roughly horizontal and spinning gently. The Earth tipped lazily around the canopy, chased by the flat, black-velvet curtain of the night hung with its small, unblinking lanterns. The stars were alien. Where was he? The Earth rolled around him, the continents and oceans sliding down across the disk: the dark, familiar shape of Cuba, Florida sliding south. That meant the Doughnut was on its northern leg of the orbit that reached as far north as Nonie, as far south as Little America on the Antarctic continent. The stars snapped into place. There was the Big Dipper. And there -- indicated most beautifully by the Pointers -- was Polaris. He drew dividends on his long labor of memorizing the Doughnut's timetable: in five minutes, by the taxi's chronometer, the Pole Star would make an angle with the orbit of -- he figured quickly -- #. Amos killed the taxi's spin and placed his horizontal axis parallel with the Doughnut's orbital plane -- as near as he could estimate the angle. He could think of only one way to check altitude; he dropped the taxi's nose until the forward sight nicked the Earth's horizon. Instead of a pilot's suit with its specialized manipulators, he had a handyman's sleeve-end tools. He held the right-hand control stick firmly in a pair of pliers and poised a screwdriver above the throttle button -- and hesitated. Rocketing one-hundred miles by the seat of his suit was a desperate gamble : there are no railroad tracks in space. There was sacrilege in it, too, but Amos shrugged that away. No shrine has ever been profaned by an honest worshipper. His jaw tightened. The danger didn't matter. The dream was dying; there would be no other chance. He pressed the throttle button. The accelerometer climbed quickly to one g; he held it there for ten seconds. When he released the throttle, he had added roughly four miles a minute to his velocity. He had used up -- he checked the instrument panel quickly -- two-tenths of his fuel supply. The nose of the taxi was still pointed at the horizon. At # the sun rose, flashing blindingly on the nose of the taxi. At #I # Amos passed over Nome, his first check point. At #I # Amos checked to see that the forward sight was still bisecting the horizon and pressed the left throttle button for ten seconds after the accelerometer reached one g. Given well-matched motors, his increase in speed and altitude were canceled. He should be back in orbit within sight of McMillen's tomb. He turned slowly to scan the entire field of vision, ignoring the glare of the sun, fierce against his eyes as he looked back. There was no stage-three in view. He had failed. There was no use searching a cubic area of space that might be hundreds of miles in volume. Head back, fool! he thought. If you can get back -- and I wouldnt bet a used sick-bag on it. Cubic, he thought. Cubic. Recklessly, he tumbled the taxi over on its back. For a moment the glare from the polar ice cap blinded him, then he saw it. To the right, three or four miles away, it gleamed in the sun; highlights ran along one wing and down the cone-shaped hull. Expertly, Amos killed the tumbling and centered the stage-three in his front sights; he poured on the fuel. The ship swelled but not as quickly as the exultation that filled his throat, hard, choking. He blasted to a stop, careless of fuel. McMillen's tomb hung a few feet away, its air-lock door gaping open to invite him in. He didn't move for a moment. He sat quite still for a few seconds, trying to savor the moment, trying to analyze his emotions. They were too complex; he gave it up. As he crawled out the port, he snapped his safety line onto the taxi. For an instant, holding himself to the taxi, he studied the opening opposite him. Then he dived for it, kicking the taxi back. He hit glancingly against the open door, caught the jamb with one hook, and pulled himself in. As the taxi reached the end of the safety line, it tried to tug him away, but he had a good hold. Bracing his feet on each side of the doorway, he reeled in the taxi until it was tight against the ship. He turned. The inner air-lock or was open. He hesitated, thinking about what he would find inside, and reality began to edit his dreams. He had thought of McMillen sitting in the captain's chair, staring out through the canopy toward the stars he had brought within man's reach, a rueful smile frozen upon his face, his body perfectly preserved by the chill airlessness of space. It wouldn't be like that at all. If the ship had ever had a ceramic coating, micro-meteorites had scoured the metal clean years ago. The hull temperature was more than # F. That was no deep freeze. Amos had seen pictures of explosive decompression. If these airlock doors had been opened quickly, McMillen wouldn't be in one piece. If, on the other hand, the air had leaked out slowly, his body fluids would have started boiling when the air pressure reached six percent of sea level, the blood in the lungs evaporating, blood ballooning under the skin... It was no picture for a dreamer. Amos straightened his shoulders inside his suit, feeling older, as if he had lost something and would lose more. He drifted through the inner doorway and hooked a girder to pull himself toward the nose of the ship. Under the canopy, he caught himself by another exposed girder, his eyes puzzled, his face wrinkled in an effort to understand. The interior of the ship was only a shell. There were no seats, no instruments, no inside sheathing. There had been no shutters for the canopy; ultraviolet had turned it almost completely opaque; micrometeorites had etched it. There was no pilot, no hero named McMillen. There never had been. No one had ever planned for any. The only useful object in the shell was a compact radio transmitter bolted to a girder. Attached to it was a tape recorder with an oversized reel. The tape had run out. It had been a hoax. The great epic of man's first flight into space, the magnificence of Earth's response to his plea for help -- it had all been false. The contributions that had made the Doughnut possible had been tricked from a credulous American people. Amos clung to the girder and grew old. The orange protective coating had never even been painted over. Amos scratched at it until the steel gleamed through: Coldly he pushed away. He swung back through the air-lock door and crawled into the taxi. His movements sent it floating away from the ship. Icily he computed his return. He had spent more than half of his fuel and almost half of his oxygen. Ten minutes later Polaris became visible. A ten-second blast from the forward motor slowed the taxi. He waited for the Doughnut to catch up.  A little over twenty-five minutes later, he speeded up again, and the needle of the fuel gauge tapped against the zero peg. He released the throttle button and looked up. The Doughnut hung above him. For the first time, he turned on his radio receiver. Immediately, it burst into speech: "Danton! Give us some indication of your position. If your radio is working, answer so that we can get a bearing. We can't send out searching parties until..." Amos flipped it off, aimed the taxi at the Doughnut, and touched the throttle of the right-hand stick. The motor coughed, just once. It was enough. The ship floated gently toward the ring. Amos crawled out, caught a line as he passed, and snapped the taxi to it. He hit the landing berth with his first try. When he came into the Hub, Kovac was climbing into a suit. He stopped, one leg drifting sideways, and stared incredulously at Amos. "Where in the -- ? My God, man, you've got the whole Doughnut in a -- !" "Took a joy ride," Amos said, releasing his helmet and stripping off the suit. He gave a short, mirthless laugh. "Joy ride! The Colonel is sending me in." "Sending you in my chilblained foot! You gave him cause!" He drifted closer, glancing at the nearby microphones. "Didn't you understand me? As long as a man obeys instructions and does the work assigned him with any degree of competence, the Fish can't send him in. They took away that power ; he was sending in too many men. You had to let him ride you into making a break!" "I was a sucker," Amos agreed flatly. "I guess I always have been." He dived for spoke B and pulled himself quickly along the landing net. "I'm back," he threw at the weight-control officer as he passed. Wide-eyed, the lieutenant spun quickly to his phone. Amos made his way, unhurried, to the cramped, communal sleeping quarters for rim B personnel and slipped into his bunk and lay there, his hands under his head, staring at the smooth bulge of the bunk above. Two minutes later Colonel Pickrell arrived. T he low overhead forced him to bend his neck. He glowered at Amos. "Danton -- " he began. "Excuse my not getting up, Colonel," Amos said, "but there isn't room for two of us between the bunks. If I'd known you wanted to see me. I'd have come to your room." Pickrell tried to straighten up, couldn't. "All right -- everybody but Danton, out of here!" The bunks emptied swiftly. Men grabbed their clothes and squeezed past Pickrell, glancing backwards curiously. When they were alone, Pickrell sat stiffly on the edge of the bunk across the narrow aisle. Amos didn't look at him. "All right, Danton, let's have it." "Have what. Colonel?" Pickrell stared at him icily. "The explanation for stealing a taxi. For absenting yourself from your post." "I borrowed the taxi. It's been returned. You can deduct the cost of the fuel from my pay." "Thanks," Pickrell said sarcastically. "But maybe we should let the courtmartial decide that." "As for absenting myself -- I was on my off-shift, just as I am now. What I choose to do with my offtime is my own affair." "Ridiculous! There are specific instructions against the unauthorized use of equipment for personal reasons. Where did you go?" Amos turned his head and met Pickrell's eyes squarely. "I took a little trip," he said gently. "I visited McMillen's tomb." "You're mad!" Amos looked back at the bunk above him. "You couldn't possibly get thiere in a taxi," Pickrell continued sharply. "Without instruments, without radio bearings! And if you got there, you couldn't possibly get back." Amos lay motionless, his hands under his head, uncaring. "You're lying," Pickrell said. Amos looked at him again, at the blue-agate eyes in the hard, weathered face. The lenses had several tiny cataracts. "Why did you do it?" he asked. "Why did you do it that way?" Pickrell' s eyebrows almost met. "You were there," he muttered, disbelief lingering in his voice. "Fantastic! I wouldn't trust myself to come back from a trip like that." "Hoax!" Amos said. Pickrell took a deep breath and let it sigh out. "Yes," he said, "the ship was empty. McMillen wasn't in it. He wasn't the first man into space. He didn't die there. The messages back -- all planned, all taped. Why did it happen that way? To understand you'd have to be one of us, back in #." Amos didn't look at him. What Pickrell said didn't matter. There were no reasons good enough. "We couldn't get the money," Pickrell said. His eyes seemed to be seeing something a long way off. "That was the only thing we needed -- the money. We used all we had -- government money, our own; it wasn't enough. We built a ship. We slaved on it. But we couldn't finish it. By stripping the third stage to a shell, we could put a payload of only one hundred pounds into an orbit. "I don't remember now who suggested the idea -- maybe it was McMillen himself. But it was the answer. We all knew it. We couldn't put McMillen up here really because we were the only ones with the imagination to see what space flight could mean. So we pretended." He made a sweeping gesture that included the satellite and everything it entailed and meant. "None of us has ever regretted it." Amos looked at him silently. "But we didn't want it that way. We could put a man out here, you see -- except for the money. So we got the money the only way we knew how. And we put men out here. That's what counts. That's our justification. We didn't want it this way, but we've never been sorry we did it." "I'm so glad," Amos said softly. Pickrell turned fierce eyes on him. "None of us is happy about it -- understand that! Bo isn't. He was the last one we convinced; he was the one who really put it over, and Who wants to be a hero when you're only a fake hero and you're alive to know it? Do you know who was the first man into space? Me," Amos chuckled. "And the honor belongs to a living ghost!" "Who wants it?" Pickrell asked violently. Then, reflectively, "We did what we had to do, to do what had to be done. The other way was too risky. We couldn't leave it to time and chance." "Where's McMillen?" "Alive. In New York probably. He's had plastic surgery, and he's under twenty-four hour guard. Not because we don't trust him ; we just can't take chances. He gets whatever he wants, within reason." "Except the privilege of coming out," Amos said. "He can't come out. Ever. He'll die there, the fake hero." "Yes." Pickrell's eyes snapped back to Amos. His face smoothed. "And you, poor dreamer," he said sardonically, "you see now why I can't keep you here. Only fabulous You might have cost the Air Force a fantastic sum in futile search and lost time." "But I didn't." "Give you time," Pickrell said confidently, " -- you would. I told you to get packed." He glanced at his wristwatch. "The ferry is due in thirteen minutes." Amos turned his head curiously. "Why are you so determined to get rid of me, Colonel?" "Out here dreamers die young," Pickrell said flatly. "We should weed them out early -- before we they won't listen to me at the Academy. To stay alive out here you have to be ruthless. We got out here by a hoax, but we can't live on illusions. I don't want to die because some fool bums a hole in the Doughnut while he's gazing at the stars. Out here is reality. You can't dream your way around it." The Colonel's face was no colder than Amos's. "We're out here on sufferance," Pickrell continued. "We have to bring our environment with us wherever we go, and it isn't enough. The air stinks. The food is awful. The water tastes of human waste material. There's no privacy. Try as we can, we never really become completely adjusted to no-weight. We live with death at our elbow: too much heat, too much cold, too much acceleration, too much ultraviolet, too little air, too thin a barrier against the night and the invisible bullets that speed through space, too many unfiltered rays and particles...  'IVe got five blind spots from heavy primaries plowing through the center of my retina. If an accident doesn't take me first, I'll die before I'm sixty." "Or if someone doesn't kill you," Amos murmured. A tight grin slipped across the Colonel's face. "Could a dreamer take that?" he asked. "He'd crack up -- if he lived that long. We need men out here, not boys. That's why you're going back." He stood up as straight as the overhead would allow and started for the doorway as if everything had been said. "Colonel," Amos said, lifting his voice a little. "How do you get a man to go through five years of hell at the Academy and then come out here to live with discomfort and death -- if you take away the dream?" Pickrell swung back, frowning. "I thought I'd tell you. Colonel: I'm not going back." "What did you say?" Pickrell asked slowly. "Send me back," Amos said clearly, "and I'll expose the hoax." Pickrell grinned. "Blackmail?" "Call it that." Pickrell studied Amos as if the cadet had suddenly changed faces. "I've got a hunch I've been wrong about you. I've decided to let you stay." Amos accepted it as if he had expected nothing else. "I'll tell you the real reason," Pickrell went on. "Not because of what you might say -- who'd believe a courtmartialed officer, disgruntled, out for revenge? Or maybe a little accident -- they're easy to come by out here and they're usually fatal. No -- you did make that trip; there must be something of a pilot in you. And I see now that you can be ruthless, too." Pickrell chuckled. "Blackmail! Danton, I think I like you after all. Now that you've got diis foolishness about heroes and the great adventure knocked out of you, maybe you'll be a spaceman yet. You're right -- it's the best solution. We can't let you go back. Not ever. You'll be McMillen's counterpart, out here. Next shift you take over a taxi. Good night. Lieutenant, Sweet dreams." He stooped through the doorway: a hard, unhappy man -- a dreamer who had sold his dreams for the means to make them real. When his dreams came back to haunt him, they must be bitter. Amos grimaced as a tiny spot of pain burned briefly in his chest. A heavy primary had passed through a pain receptor. He touched the button beside the viewport, and the outside cover lifted away. Out there was Mare. Somewhere was Venus and the rest. Nearer, almost within reach, was the moon. They weren't the same, he and the Colonel, Amos thought. The dreams a man absorbs from his society, as naturally as the air he breathes, aren't important. Soon or late -- they die. Call it: growing up. And when a man grows up he has to make his own dreams. His were still out there.    what Is Your Science I. Q.? the answers numerous times in IF and in other science fiction magazines. Count # for each correct answer and see if you can hit a score of #. The answers are on page #. #. What is the only naked-eye object visible in the northern sky which does not belong to our galaxy? #. Generally speaking, a satellite will its orbital speed if it finds a small amount of resistance along its orbit. #. What is the only even prime number so far discovered? #. The largest lunar crater, about # miles wide, is called #. How many prime numbers are there in the first #? #. Titan, Ganymede and are all satellites larger than the planet Mercury. #. What's the name given to the "counter earth" which supposedly travels in an orbit which keeps the sun between us and it? #. The axis of Uranus is tilted degrees from the vertical. #. What is the term used to describe the common center of gravity of two revolving masses such as the Earth and the moon? #. Jonathan Swift wrote about the two moons of Mars about years before they were actually discovered. #. Which is the heaviest element in terms of specific gravity rather than atomic number? #. Kepler's Third Law states that the a planet is to the sun, the faster it will revolve around it. #. What is the name of the mythical planet supposed to be inside the orbit of Mercury? #. Electromagnetic waves of any wave length travel at a rate which is roughly equal to the speed of . #. What is the name given to the geometric conception of a fourth dimensional super-solid? #. The apex of a cone of light, such as the needlebeam of a #. What is the approximate temperature at the sun's center? #. Our moon ranks in size among the satellites. #. Are trans-uranic elements considered artificial? #. There are about # eclipses of the moon to every of the sun. The Levels System was a very democratic process, but the rules were strict -- and the worst knowing who the Inspectors part was not were N# that when Joe Bedlow went crazy two years ago and ran up into the Sierra Nevada Mountains with that waitress from C#, that it would have anything to do with whether or not Elaine and I would make our promotion from N# to N#. I know absolutely that I wasn't thinking about Joe Bedlow that Friday night when Elaine and I were waiting for Tom and Edith Weathers to come over from Small Orchard, which, as anyone at all knows is an N#, not an N# like Hill Grove, our little section here in Northern California. It was an evening in spring, and I was sitting in the living room reading the History. I knew, of course, that there wasn't much time left to try to learn history. Our five years would be up the next night at midnight; and if we didn't make it, we would be stuck with N# for at least another period. Yet I kept thinking that sometime between now and then perhaps an Inspector might ask me a question about the History, and I wanted to be ready if I could. You never knew who an Inspector was. I was particularly trying to conIllustrated by Paul Orban centrate on that part where it went known, into the reasons why we developed "For example. Doctor Atwell the Levels System. proved conclusively, in his experi"The Levels System I read, is ments, that such a condition as a product of our World Democracy; popularity was not at all like the however it is thought that the first myth of that time supposed it to he, germs of the System, as we know it He offered as evidence certain today, appeared in the late #s, advertisements of that period which At that time Doctor Joseph Atextolled the idea that to be able to well presented his theory of identiplay a piano well would insure ones fication and noted precisely the popularity. This type of misconcepgeneral distaste generated by hution enjoyed a strong vogue in the man nature when confronted with middle of the Twentieth Century; an unidentifiable experience paryet even this early. Doctor Atwell ticularly if the experience is of a had begun to point out the fallacy nature superior to any previously of confusing popularity with discomfort if not downright envy or jealousy. PerhapSy then, it is because of Doctor Atwell that piano players are now able to enjoy one another's company rather than provide distress to those who know nothing whatever about playing the instrument, and... I was interrupted by the sound of Elaine calling me from the bathroom. I took off my glasses and slammed the book shut. I was not angry at being interrupted -- I was always happy for an excuse to quit reading the History, because it was so much more difficult than reading the self-improvement books which we received in N# and twice as difficult as reading the historical romances which we had during the years we spent in N#. It was just the fact that I kept thinking about how it would be if Elaine and I did not go on to N#, and I felt like slamming a good many things in addition to the book. "John," Elaine said, "did you hear me?" "No." "I asked you if you had tied your tie yet?" "I have not," I said. "It's almost eight o'clock." "It's almost doomsday." Elaine appeared at the bedroom door and looked at me. Elaine is thirty-five, two years yoimger than I, but she still looks like the same sweet girl I married back in twentynineteen. She looked particularly nice that night, because she was wearing the pale blue taffeta that I'd always liked so well. "John," she said, "you said we weren't going to talk about it tonight. You said we wouldn't even think about it." I put my feet up on the hassock and looked at my toes. "I'm sorry. And I promise I won't think about it anymore." "Just put on your tie and your jacket. Tom and Edith will be here any minute." "I wish they weren't coming." "John, please." "I just wish they weren't coming." "You can show Tom the Wanecruiser-Eight." "I'm sick of showing Tom the Wanecruiser-Eight." "John, you promised you'd stop thinking about everything." "Well, I'm sick of showing Tom the Wanecruiser-Eight, that's all. Aren't you sick of showing Edith the Mist Coffee Um?" "No, I'm not, because we worked hard to get into N#. All Edith has is a simple Hi-Class Percolator, and I like to show the Mist Coffee Um to Edith." "Do you like to have Cathy Stanwell show you her Gold Spiral Server?" Elaine blinked, and I thought she was going to cry. I stood up quickly and patted her on the shoulder. "Don't mind me. I'm sorry. I'm sure we'll make it. I really am." Elaine kept blinking, then finally she wrinkled her nose at me and went back to the bathroom. Elaine and I have always believed in spirit and positivism. We'd taken the hard knocks together before, and we could, I told myself, take them again. However, as I tied my tie in the bedroom, my mind kept wandering back to the fact that our deadline had just about arrived, and I couldn't help becoming irritated all over again that someone in Arrangements had somehow scheduled our weekly visit with Brad and Cathy Stanwell in their section of N# to be the very next night after Tom and Edith Weathers visited us from their section in N#. As a matter of fact, I even got to doubting the worth of the entire System, even though I'd voted the straight Levels ticket ever since I was twenty-one. I tried to get my thoughts back to normal by thinking about the History again and remembering how things were when each Level kept to itself and there was no visiting between Levels at all. I knew that that hadn't worked, because one couldn't very well appreciate what one had if there wasn't someone around to show it to who didn't have it. I remembered, of course, that the people in Z# (Reinvested Interest Profits) got to enjoy visits from the Level below them but didn't have to visit anyone in the Level above because there wasn't one higher. But I recalled what Harry Woodly always said about that: "It's no skin off my nose, we can't all be President." It did help to remember that there were the Als (Intellectual) who had to visit the next Level up but were unable to have anyone at all visit them from a Level below because they were on the very bottom. I had never gotten too straight N# N# N# about why the Als, who had the highest IQ rating, were on the lowest Level, when in every other instance the IQ rating rose in correspondence to the Level. The History explained something about the Als not caring about an)ing really worthwhile materially, and so they didn't care if there was anybody around to show it off to or not. But I'd never been completely clear on it. At any rate, thinking about the Als and their being on the bottom of the heap didn't help my own attitude very much, and I kept wishing thkt whoever in Arrangements had scheduled our visits program hadn't done it the way he had. Regardless of what I'd told Elaine, it was a lot of fun to show Tom the Wanecruiser-Eight; but not nearly so much as it might have been if the very next night I hadn't had to stand around while Brad Stanwell showed me his Hydro-Ten. Finally, my thoughts were broken when the front door chimes sounded, and I put on the jacket of my dress suit and walked out to let Edith and Tom in. "Hi, folks!" I tried to make my greeting bright, but it was an effort. "Hi, John!" Edith said. "Well, hi, John!" Tom said. We shook hands all around and beamed at one another, and then I said, "sit down, folks. Elaine'll be right out." They crossed the living room to the sofa, and I noticed that Edith was wearing that black satin dress again. It was not nearly as nice as Elaine's pale blue taffeta; as a matter of fact, it was rather cheaplooking. Yet somehow I had never disliked it. Edith had an awfully good figure which was accented in that black dress It may have been an illusion, but there seemed to be a good deal more movement in that black dress than there was when she wore something else. "Well, folks," I said, getting my mind back to the affairs at hand, "how about a Martini?" We always served Martinis, just as Tom and Edith always served blended whiskey and the Stanwells always served bonded Scotch; but it was always nice to ask anyway. "Why, sure, John!" Tom said. "Fll have a wee sip, kiddo," Edith said. It was that kind of talk that always ruined the other attributes that Edith had. I mixed the Martinis and poured them, and by that time Elaine came out and said hello to Tom and Edith. We all sat down and sipped at our drinks, then I said, "How's the Hublo-Six, Tom?" I knew pretty well how the Hublo-Six was because I'd flown one all the time we were in N#, but it seemed like the thing to say. I kept remembering Brad Stanwell's Hydro-Ten and what it would be like if we didn't make it into N# and never got to own our own HydroTen; and it seemed more important than ever that I remembered that Tom owned only a Hublo-Six. "Well," Tom said, "she's really a beauty when you come to think of it. I didn't think so at first, but now I think she's a pretty swell little copter." I was rather siuprised by Tom's answer; as a matter of fact, I'd never heard him answer like that about the Hublo-Six in all the years that we'd been entertaining them. "I guess," I said, "that's because you've never flown a WanecruiserEight, Tom. Wait until you do that, then you'll know what a copter is really like." "Well," Tom said, smilingly brightly at me, "everyone to his own taste." I know that I didn't smile back at him. I'd never heard Tom talk like that, and I wasn't certain that he was feeling well. I should have let it go, but I was getting a little angry. "Would you like to take a look at her, Tom?" "The Hublo-Six, John?" "No," I said, trying to keep my voice calm, "the Wanecruiser-Eight, Tom." "Oh, why, sure. Let's do it now!" Right away, I felt a little better. "You girls take your time with those drinks," I said. "Then we'll be on our way." Just as Tom and I were leaving the room, I heard Edith say to Elaine, "Honey, I've drunk up already. Do you think just one more wee sip would hurt anything?" I was getting rather confused. We never served more than one Martini before we left for the club. "That Edith," Tom said, "she's a regular card tonight. I don't know what's got into her." I didn't know what had gotten into either one of them. I wondered, in fact, whether everyone was going crazy. However, in the garage, I tried to get back into the spirit of things. I slapped the left wing of the Wanecruiser-Eight and said, "There she is, Tom. Sweetest little copter you'd ever want to own." Tom walked around it slowly, looking at everything. We'd been doing this for quite a while now, and I thought I knew pretty well what he was going to say. I was surprised, therefore, when he said, "Well, for speed maybe she's all right, John. But I'll take that little Hublo-Six for just plain maneuverability." "Well," I said. And then because I couldn't think of anything else at all to say, I said, "Well, well." "She's a real looker, John," Tom said, slapping the front end, "but she's a little heavy, you know?" I got out a cigarette and lit it, thinking that the main thing was that I should stay calm regardless of what had happened to Tom. Elaine and I still had a chance to get into N#, even though it looked pretty slim by now; and I didn't want to lose even that by letting anything at all bother me and tip me off balance. A fter WE'D flown to the dub, i-we sat down at the usual table and said hello to the usual people who stopped by. Then Tom and Edith went out on the floor to dance. They always wanted to dance the first thing. Of course, the club's music was good and the dance floor was nice; I couldn't really blame them because I knew that all they had was the hall in N#. Yet I knew, too, that they would have to learn more restraint if they were ever going to get into N#, and jumping up to dance the first thing was not showing a whole lot of restraint. "What in God's name is wrong with them tonight?" I asked Elaine. "I don't know, John. Maybe nothing is wrong with them. Maybe it's just us. I wish you woulan't look so worried. If there's an Inspector around here tonight -- " "Please just don't talk about Inspectors," I said. "I just want to know what's wrong with Tom and Edith." Elaine stared out at the dance floor as they danced by. "I know one thing that's wrong with Edith. That dress. It's perfectly ugly." I watched Edith do a tricky little step which did not involve too much footwork, but which seemed to involve about everything else. "That black dress?" I said. "Yes," Elaine said. "It's perfectly ugly." I knew that we were both tense about everything, and I knew that the black dress was not in good taste like Elaine's pale blue taffeta. But it irritated me that Elaine was throwing in something else to worry about when there was enough already. Elaine, I thought, had a marvelous capacity for worrying about inconsequential things when there were the big things to worry about. Finally I said, "I don't see much wrong with that black dress." Elaine looked at me in a way that I hadn't seen since that time I accidentally put the WanecruiserEight down on her bed of gladioli, but Edith and Tom came back to the table before she had time to N# N# N# say anything. "Isn't this grand music?" Tom said. "Why don't you folks get out there and shake a leg?" Elaine was silent, and I looked at my glass. We were having bonded whiskey, but I had barely touched mine; in the club it was always much better just to sip at your drink and make it last. Then I noticed that Edith was tipping up her glass and draining her drink. I was surprised, but not so surprised that I failed to notice how becoming her neck looked when her head was tipped back that way. I glanced at Elaine and saw that she was looking away angrily, then Edith put down her glass and said, "I've got a beautiful idea, everyone." Tom grinned at her. "What's that, Edith?" "Let's all get swizzled tonight!" In approximately twenty-six hours we'd either be in N# or we wouldn't, and frankly I was beginning to think absolutely that we weren't going to make it. I suppose that I was becoming really frightened, and perhaps that was why I got into the same mood that Edith was in. In the time that we usually took to drink two drinks, Edith and I had drunk four. Tom didn't seem to notice, but Elaine was becoming angrier by the minute. Even the waiter seemed a little surprised, I noticed. I wondered why he should be, because I happened to have known that he was an E#, and I'd heard that E#s got drunk once and twice a week on just beer. But I didn't care much what anybody thought; matching drinks with Edith seemed to be about the only way to combat all that tension I was feeling. "Let's have another one," I said. Elaine glared at me. Then Tom said, "Let's dance, shall we, Elaine?" Elaine was certainly angry at me, I knew, but I stood up and smiled very brightly at her as she and Tom left the table. Then Edith and I were alone. We touched glasses, and I said, "Here's to it, Edith." "Here's to what, John?" "Here's to anything, Edith." "Let's dance, shall we, John?" Of course, I'd noticed before how it was to dance with Edith, but I'd always been pretty careful about it, holding her away and such. But tonight I wasn't very careful at all, and I didn't care that I wasn't. We went around the floor slowly, and I caught sight of Elaine watching us over Tom's shoulder; but I looked the other way. Near the bandstand I saw that Fred Wicket was also watching us in a very peculiar manner. For a moment I did move Edith away -- I'd always had the suspicion that Fred Wicket was an Inspector. But then Edith said, "What's the matter, John?" "Nothing," I S#iid, letting her move back where she had been. "Not one little solitary thing, Edith." I was even beginning to feel that if I could do something to ruin everything, it would be better than all this waiting. "John," Edith said. "The music's stopped." "Oh, has it?" "John, I feel a little wobblyheaded. Let's go outside. Do you want to?" "Yes," I said. "Let's go outside." There was a yellow moon shining over the golf course which bordered the north side of the clubhouse, and Edith and I walked across the soft grass of the eighth hole. "I feel so funny tonight, John," she said. "Funny?" "Yes. I just feel kind of crazy, like I don't give a damn." "I feel pretty much the same way, Edith." "I feel like I just wouldn't care what in the world happened tonight, John." We reached the area where the copters were parked and walked between the rows of WanecruiserEights. "That's just about the way I feel, Edith." We stopped beside one of the copters, and Edith leaned back against the door of the cabin. "What's the matter with us tonight, John?" "I don't know," I said. "I thought that you and Tom both were acting funny earlier, and now I'm acting the same way." "Let's not think about Tom, shall we. John?" "All right," I said. Edith reached up and patted my cheek, and I took her hand. "Let's not think about Elaine either, shall we?" I asked. "All right. What shall we think N# N# N# about then?" "I don't know. Can you think of something?" "Yes " "What?" "Can't you guess?" It was kind of confused after that. I found myself kissing Edith, and we kind of bumped around between the cabin door and the left wing, and I almost fell down. Then, suddenly, I remembered about Joe Bedlow and how they had demoted him down to M# because of all that trouble he'd gotten into with that waitress, and I regained my senses. "Edith," I said, "we shouldn't be doing this." "Don't you like it, John?" she asked. "I don't think that's quite the entire point," I said. "I just don't think we ought to be doing this." "Oh. John," she said sadly, "and I just don't give a damn at all what happens." "Edith, let's get back inside." "All right, John." We walked back between the copters, and I wiped at my mouth with my handkerchief while Edith tried to smooth her hair. We'd gotten to the rim of the golf course, when I saw Fred Wicket. He was standing just outside the broad French windows of the clubhouse, staring at us. I suddenly felt very ill. "What's the matter, John?" Edith asked. "You look pale." "I still feel a little funny, I guess." "Do you want to go back to the parking lot, John?" "I don't mean that kind of funny," I said. "I mean I feel a little weak." "Poor John." She reached up and patted my cheek. "Edith, don't do that." I knew that everything was ruined now and that it wouldn't make much difference if Edith patted my cheek or not. But I just wanted to forget what had happened. I just wanted to get out of there. Inside, Elaine looked at me, and it seemed to me that her eyes had actually turned to ice. "You're back," she said. "Yes, ma'am," I said. "And I don't feel very well either. I think maybe I'd like to go home." It was all very uncomfortable and embarrassing, but we got up and got our coats; then we flew home in the Wanecruiser-Eight. When Tom and Edith had left in their Hublo-Six, Elaine said, "Well, you couldn't have picked a better time to do what you did tonight, could you?" Before I could say anything, Elaine had gone into the bedroom and slammed the door. I spent the night on the couch in the study, but I didn't sleep very much. Elaine had certainly been right; I'd picked a beautiful night for losing my balance. Whether or not I'd really done anything serious didn't make any difference. The fact was that I'd shown a great deal of instability, and if there was anything that you shouldn't show in Hill Grove, I thought, it was instability. I kept remembering how Fred Wicket had looked at us as we'd crossed back from the parking lot, and I knew that Elaine and I were going to be in Hill Grove for a good long while. T he fact that we had to go to Tall Oaks and be entertained by Brad and Cathy Stanwell the next evening did not help matters at all. Elaine had not spoken to me all through that next day, and it was a great effort on my part even to smile when we faced Brad and Cathy that night. Brad is a large ruddy-faced fellow, and Cathy is pretty and trim -- although not at all like Edith Weathers. I'd always felt that we were rather lucky to have them for our N# couple, and I'd always thought that when we moved on to N# ourselves, we'd go right on seeing them of our own desire. Now, all of that was changed, I knew. I knew that we weren't going to go into N#, and nothing at all seemed important. However, Brad and Cathy seemed particularly gay, and so I tried my very best to look enthusiastic. "Sit down, children," Brad said, "and let old pappy pour you a Scotch and soda!" "Right," I said. "Just wonderful," Elaine said. "Have some hors d'oeuvres," Cathy said. We sipped our drinks and tasted the hors d'ouevres, and I kept glancing at my watch. It was eightthirty, three and a half hours away from our deadline. I wondered why I'd done what I'd done the night before, but I knew the reasons didn't matter; I'd done it, all right. I tried to smile and nod as Cathy and Brad chatted on happily. Then finally Brad said, "Cathy, let's not hold out on them any longer, shall we?" Cathy smiled very prettily. "All right. You tell them, Brad." They both looked at us, their eyes dancing, and Brad said, "John, how would you like to go out and take a look at the Hydro-Ten?" Going out and taking a look at Brad's Hydro-Ten was just about the last thing in the world that I wanted to do right then, but I nodded and said, "Why, sure. Brad. I'd love to!" Brad kept grinning at me. "Especially if you knew you were going to start flying one yourself, eh, John?" I stared at him and put my drink down and rubbed my palms over my knees. "How's that, Brad?" "Children, you've done it!" Brad said laughing. "You are now in N#!" I blinked at him, then I looked at Elaine. There were tears in her eyes, but she was smiling just as though she might never stop. "You're kidding," I said. "No, sir, John. I am not. They told us to give you the message. It's authenticated. You're in!" I opened my mouth and closed it. "Well, by golly!" I said. The next minute, Elaine was kissing me and I was kissing her. Brad pumped my hand, and Elaine and Cathy hugged each other, laughing and crying. I'd never been so happy in my life. "Well," Brad said finally, "don't you want to look at that HydroTen now, John?" N# N# N# "Brad," I said pretty loudly, "you bet your life I do!" I walked to the door with Brad, then I stopped and looked back at Elaine and waved at her. She blew me a kiss. It was wonderful. In the garage I kept walking around the Hydro-Ten, and Brad just stood there and watched me, grinning widely. "Great feeling, isn't it?" I nodded and finally leaned back against the copter. "It really is. Brad. Only a few minutes ago, I thought -- " . "That you weren't going to make it?" "Yes." "I felt the same way, John. Just exactly. I was worried about it for weeks. And then, near the end, I thought absolutely that we wouldn't do it." "I surely didn't think we would. Brad. I really didn't." "I'll tell you this, John. You ought to feel proud. Not everybody makes it, you know. And the reason they don't is because they don't have the balance. John, to progress this way, you've got to have balance -- that's the whole thing. Some try too hard. Others don't try hard enough. The ones who make it show they've got the balance. And you made it, John." "Yes. But I still don't understand it." Brad nodded understandingly. "I'll tell you, I didn't either. Not for a little while anyway. But here in N# you learn more, John. You get some perspective. You get the viewpoints of the boys here in Tall Oaks. And now that I think back on when Cathy and I were in N#, I realize that it was balance, just good old natural balance, that got us through." "Balance," I said. "Right." Brad got out two cigars and we lit up. "Listen, John, I'll tell you a little story -- something I don't want to get out, you understand. Just a little story, man to man." "All right," I said, puffing on the cigar. "This happened one day before our deadline was up in N#. We'd just about given up, and then we went to that club dance they have back in Hill Grove, you know?" "I know," I said. "I'll tell you, I don't know what got into me that night. I was scared, I guess. Both Cathy and I were scared, and we were fighting each other. And -- well, we were entertaining this couple from N#, and I was drinking a little too much, and bango! First thing I knew I was outside with the wife of this N# fellow, and -- " Brad motioned a hand. "It wasn't anything serious, you understand, John. It wasn't anything at all, really, and I didn't feel any different about Cathy or anything like that. It just happened." "I'll be damned," I said. "Somebody saw us, I was certain of that. And right there I gave up. I really did. Only the next night we were told, just like you were tonight, that we'd made it into N#." "Well, well, well," I said. "Now, the point of this, John, is that I think maybe that's what did it. I couldn't say for certain, but I think maybe that's really what did it." Brad looked at his cigar reflectively. "You see I'd been trying too hard up to then, not being very human and natural, you know? And you've got to be human and natural to get along here in N#. All the boys, all the girls, we're all human and natural here -- how would it be if we had someone in here who wasn't?" "Not so hot," I said. "Right. Only you never need to worry about that, John. Those boys and girls won't get in. I'll tell you that. Not if they don't prove they're human and natural. You see, I've always figured it was that next to the last night that really made the difference. What happened wasn't too much, nor too little, and maybe that proved the balance. I haven't talked to any of the other boys here in the section about it -- I mentioned it to you, John, because we've been such good friends and because I'm proud to have you here in Tall Oaks. But I really think that's what did it." I nodded, puffing on the cigar and watching the smoke drift toward the ceiling. "By the way, Brad," I said finally, "what did she look like?" "Who, John?" "That girl." "Oh. Well, she was a looker. I'll tell you that. Not like Elaine or Cathy -- I mean not their type. She was rather common, as a matter of fact. But she had a hell of a figure. And I'll never forget how she looked in that dress." "That dress?" "That black satin dress." Brad shook his head. "You know, this might sound silly, John, but somehow IVe always had a theory about her." "A theory?" Brad nodded. "I've always had the theory that Edith was an Inspector." "Well," I said. "Well, well." Brad's eyes were preoccupied, then he straightened suddenly. "Listen, the girls are calling. Let's go back and really celebrate this, Siall we?" "Right!' I slapped the tail of the Hydro-Ten, and then Brad and I walked back to the living room. "Look," Cathy said, "I've made new drinks, and now we're going to have a toast." We stood in a circle in the center of the room with the drinks in our hands, and Brad said, "All right. A toast to what?" "A toast to N#!" Cathy said. I hadn't thought about that until that very moment; and I paused a second, letting it really come to me. Then, suddenly, I raised my glass and looked at Elaine. "To N#!" I said. Elaine smiled back at me brilliantly, and then all four of us said together, "To N#!" It was a very wonderful moment.    public and industry are being pooled in a new "crash" program to find a drug or drugs to cure cancer. This voluntary, cooperative effort will be like that of wartime researches which gave us radar and the atom bomb. For the first time, public, private and industrial research in the field of cancer chemotherapy will be brought under the guidance of one organization: The Cancer Chemotherapy National Committee -- C.C.N.C. Synthetic chemicals and those from plants, hormones and viruses will be investigated as potential remedies. The program will make it possible for scientists working on a particular aspect of the problem to exchange ideas and suggest new lines of approach. It will obtain particular chemicals for study and will keep an "intelligence file" for references to progress with compounds. Our citation this month goes to the government and private agencies and industries who are spending some twelve to fifteen the C.C.N.C. which will give the direction needed to make this investment more profitable in terms of lives saved from cancer. N# N# N# the earthman The jour survivors were sitting ducks surrounded by barbaric savages. And they were doubly handicapped, because they knew that one of them was a traitor! T he robot supply ship came every Thursday at seven minutes after noon. It was an unfortunate hour for the personnel of the Nevada station, who happened to be in the commissary at lunch. Out of fourteen hundred assigned to the post, only four escaped -- two guards on noon duty in the watch tower; the Commander's wife, who had skipped lunch and stayed in her cottage; and Captain Tchassen. The Captain was on a hill south of the station making a Tri-D shot of the range of mountains west of the camp. He took his amateur photography seriously and, like any tourist, he was fascinated by the rugged scenery; there was nothing comparable to this on any world in the civilized galaxy. To get the back lighting that he wanted, Tchassen would cheerfully have given up any number of meals. As a matter of fact, he wasn't aware that it was noon until he heard the jet blast of the supply ship as it came in on the transit beam. Tchassen saw the ship spin out of control as the beam went haywire. The robot plunged into the heart of the station and the earth shook in the catastrophic explosion of the nuclear reactor. The commissary, the communication center, the supply sheds and the row of patrol ships vanished in the rising, mushroom cloud. Concussion threw Tchassen violently to the ground. His camera was smashed against a boulder. The Captain picked himself up unsteadily. He took a capsule from his belt pouch and swallowed it -- a specific against shock and radiation sickness. In a remarkably short time, Tchassen's mind cleared. He saw the prisoners pouring through the gap torn in the compound fence and running for the hills. But that did not alarm him particularly. They were unarmed and for the moment they represented no real danger. Tchassen began to run toward the ruined administrative center. He had to find out if there were any other survivors and he had to make emergency contact with the occupation base on the coast. He ran with considerable difficulty. After less than a hundred yards, he was gasping for breath. He slowed to a walk. He could feel the hammering of his heart; his throat was dry and ice cold. To the escaped prisoners, watching from beyond the camp, the Captain's weakness was unbelievable -- for Tchassen, in his twenties, had a magnificent build. Typical of Illustrated by Ed Emsh the occupation army, he wore the regulation military uniform, kneehigh boots and tight-fitting, silver colored trousers. Above the waist he was naked, except for the neckchain which carried the emblem of his rank. His body was deeply tanned. His hair was a bristling, yellow crown. Yet, despite his appearance, his sudden exhaustion was very real; Captain Tchassen had been on Earth only five days and he was still not adjusted to the atmospheric differences. As he passed the row of officers' cottages, he fell against a wall, panting for breath. The flat-roofed buildings were nearly a mile from the crater of the explosion, yet even here windows had been broken by concussion. A cold, arid wind whipped past the dwellings; somewhere a door, torn loose from its frame, was banging back and forth. Then Tchassen heard a muffled cry. In one of the officer's cottages he found Tynia. She had been thrown from her bed and the bed was overturned above her. It was a fortunate accident; the mattress had protected her from the flying glass. Tchassen helped her to her feet. She clung to him, trembling. He was very conscious of her sensuous beauty, as he had been since he first came to the Nevada station. Tynia was the wife of the commanding officer: Tchassen kept reminding himself of that, as if it could somehow build a barrier against her attractiveness. She was strikingly beautiful -- and thirty years younger than her husband. It was common gossip that she had been flirting with most of the junior officers assigned to the station. Tchassen was, in fact, a security investigator sent to probe the potential scandal and recommend a means for heading it off. He gave Tynia a shock pill from his pouch. Her hysteria subsided. She became suddenly modest about the semi-transparent bedgown she was wearing, and she zipped into a tight coverall, made from the same silver-hued material as the Captain's trousers. They went outside. She stood a foot shorter than Tchassen. Her dark hair framed her face in graceful waves; make-up emphasized the size of her eyes and the lush, scarlet bow of her lips. Tynia glanced toward the crater, shielding her face from the noon sun. "What happened. Captain?" "The flight beam failed; the supply ship exploded." "And killed them all." She said it flatly, without feeling -- but Tchassen doubted that she would have mourned the loss of her husband in any case. "I'll have to get word through to the coast. We'll need a rescue helio and -- " "I know how to use the emergency transmitter," Tynia volunteered. "There may be other survivors, Captain Tchassen; they'll need your help." "I don't want to leave you alone, Tynia." It was the first time he spoke her given name, though the informality was commonplace among the junior officers on the post. "The prisoners are out of the compound. We may have trouble." "Not yet, Captain; they're still unarmed. I'll be all right." She nodded toward the crater. "We have to make sure there's no one else alive down there." He left her reluctantly. She went toward the emergency communications room, buried in a metal-walled pillbox which had been intentionally located far from the center of the station. Tchassen walked across the scarred earth in the direction of the crater. None of the important buildings had survived. Concussion had tom up the fence arovmd the prison compound, but the cell block, hall a mile from the explosion and built of concrete and steel, was still standing. The watch tower, beyond the prison building, stood askew on bent metal pillars, but it was otherwise undamaged. The Captain knew that at least two guards were on watch duty at all hours; they might still be alive. He crossed the crater and pulled himself up the battered stairs to the top of the tower. The door was jammed. Using a broken piece of railing as a lever, he pried it open. He found the two guards unconscious, slumped across their observation console. He gave them shock capsules, but the men regained consciousness slowly. While he waited, Tchassen read their identity disks. The Corporal, Gorin Drein, was a three-year draftee, serving a six month tour of duty on Earth. He was a fair-haired, blue-eyed boy, probably no more than twenty years old. Sergeant Briggan was an army career man, in his fifties and only a few years away from retirement. Yet the only physical indication of his age was the touch of gray in his bristling mane of dark hair. When their erratic breathing steadied and they opened their eyes, the Captain explained what had happened. Both men were still groggy; the shock pills inhibited their normal emotional reactions. Neither Briggan nor Drein had much to say until Tchassen helped them down from the tower and they stood looking at the hole blasted in the earth. "The supply rocket," Sergeant Briggan said slowly, "couldn't have done this; the beam landings are foolproof. The prisoners must have pulled it off, though I don't see -- " "How?" Tchassen broke in. "The compound fence didn't go down imtil after the blast; there was no way any of them could get out." "Robot ships just don't get off the beam," Corporal Drein declared stubbornly. Briggan nodded toward the empty cell block. "It worked out nicely -- for the prisoners. A single explosion wipes out most of us; but the prisoners are far enough away from the blast center to escape." "Surely there isn't any danger of revolution," Tchassen asked, unconsciously mocking the optimism of the security bulletins. "Not any longer." Briggan grinned. "You've only been here five days, sir; you don't know how thoroughly our indoctrination has failed. The Earth people hate us more than ever." "Even so, how could one of the prisoners have brought the robot down?" "By tampering with the beam." "But that means they had a subversive -- that means one of us must be -- " "An Earthman, yes. We encourage them to apply for citizenship. If we had an Earthman on the post masquerading as an officer, how would we know it -- unless he told us? They're no different from our own people, Captain." On the other side of the crater Tynia staggered out of the communications pillbox. Tchassen saw her waving frantically and he knew something was wrong -- very wrong. He began to run toward her. Briggan and Drein followed close behind him. Almost immediately the Captain staggered and gasped for breath; he motioned for the Sergeant and the Corporal to go on without him. Briggan waited long enough to say, "So far we've located four survivors, sir -- only four. And one of the four is very probably an Earthman. The transit beams don't fail of their own accord. It's not a very nice thing to think about, is it, sir?" The two men left him and Tchassen walked slowly, alone across the barren land. The wind whispered against his naked chest; it felt suddenly cold and forbidding. The ragged peaks piled on the western horizon were no longer simply photogenic curiosities of an alien world, but symbols of undefined terror. Why had the supply robot crashed? Why had the prisoners been able to get away without a casualty? Had it been planned by an officer of the station? If so, where was he now -- with the prisoners, dead in the commissary, or among the four survivors? The tide of questions hammered at Tchassen's mind, but he came up with no workable answers. His real trouble stemmed from the fact that he knew so little about the Earth people. Their reasoning was beyond rational analysis. They were physically identical to normal human beings, and it was almost impossible not to assume that their thinking would be normally human, too. When Tchassen reached the communications pillbox, the Sergeant, the Corporal, and Tynia were inside. In the gloomy half-light he saw the others silently trying to patch together the broken wires of the transmitter. It was hopeless; Tchassen saw that at once. Only a master technician could have made sense out of that jumbled maze. The other three knew that, too. They stopped when they saw Tchassen and looked at him expectantly, waiting for him to tell them what to do. With something of a shock, he realized that he now ranked as station commander. "I don't believe the explosion wrecked the transmitter," Tchassen decided uncertainly. "It was tom up like this when I first came in," Tynia told him. "So we couldn't get in touch with the occupation base. Obviously one of the prisoners did it. They must have had -- The Captain licked his lips, "They must have had outside help." "What do we do now?" Tynia's voice was shrill with rising hysteria. "We can't radio for a rescue ship. How do we get away?" "It's up to us to find something else." She moved close to Sergeant Briggan, reaching for his hand. "The Earth people are outside somewhere, waiting to kill us. We can't escape, Captain! And you start talking nonsense -- " Very deliberately Tchassen slapped the back of his hand against her cheek. The pillbox was abruptly very still. She stared at him, her eyes wide. Slowly she raised her hand and touched the reddening mark on her face. She shrank against Briggan and the Sergeant put his arm around her shoulders. "You didn't have to do that, Captain," he bristled. "Don't quarrel," Tynia whispered. "Not on my account." Tchassen's muscles tensed. This was the way Tynia had created tension on the post ; he had seen it happen to her husband. Yet could he honestly blame her? It wasn't her fault; just the irony of circumstance. And Tchassen knew that his anger now was primarily envy, because she had turned to the Sergeant for protection and not to him. He made himself relax. "Hysteria," he said, "is a luxury none of us can afford." "You're right," Tynia answered. "Absolutely right. I was very foolish." She moved away and Briggan muttered, "Sorry, sir. I di't think' -- "We must get back to the coast," Tchassen said briskly, "through territory occupied by the enemy. We can scrape together all the weapons we'll need and the roads are supposed to be passable. Our only problem, then, is transportation." "Maybe we'd better stay here," Tynia suggested. "Sitting ducks for the Earthmen to attack?" "You said we have weapons." "Not enough to hold out indefinitely." "Sir," Corporal Drein intervened, "there's an old, enemy vehicle in the prison building. We used it sometimes for field inspections." "Let's look it over." Captain Tchassen had seen the instructional films which were made immediately after the occupation. He could identify the sedan -- an inefficient, petroleum-burning machine, typical of a primitive people who had just reached the threshhold of the Power Age. The original beauty of design had long since disappeared. Only one window and the windshield were unbroken; the body paint was peeling away in spreading patches of rust ; the pneumatic tires were in shreds and the vehicle moved noisily on bent, metal rims. They fueled the car with gasoline confiscated long ago and stored in drums in the prison warehouse; Corporal Drein volunteered to do the driving. In the officers' cottages they found weapons -- a portable heat beam, half a dozen dispersal rays, and a box of recharge cartridges. In terms of Tchassen's technology such weapons were minor sidearms, but they were superior to anything yet produced by the Earth people. Tchassen was sure he had the power to beat off any attack. The survivors were handicapped in only one respect : all the food on the post had been destroyed with the commissary. However, Tchassen did not consider that a serious problem. He was sure they could reach the coast by the following morning. Shortly before three o'clock -- nearly two hours after the supply robot crashed -- the survivors left the station. They headed west on a highway unused since the conquest. Tchassen and Tynia sat together in back. The Captain kept all the weapons. Briggan's warning couldn't be ignored; one of the other three might be an Earthman. Unless they faced an actual emergency, Tchassen did not intend to let any of the others carry arms. T he sedan lumbered over cracked and crumbling asphalt. The tireless rims made a nervewracking din that prevented all conversation. Tchassen was unused to any sort of surface transportation. The civilized galaxy had outgrown it centuries ago; the flight beam, safe and inexpensive, was universally used. With equal ease the beam could move a one-man runabout or a cargo freighter over any distance -- a few feet or the light years gapping between planets. Twice Tchassen revised his estimate of the sedan's speed. At this rate, it would be twenty-four hours or more before they reached the coast. That made their shortage of food far more significant. Through the shattered side window Tchassen scanned the arid soil. It was remotely possible that they might stumble across a native food cache, but he couldn't count on that. He wasn't even sure the caches existed, although the theory was a basic factor in the occupation policy. The galactic council of scientists estimated that one-tenth of the Earth people had never been rounded up and resettled in the prison compounds; bandit raids increased that number steadily. How the rebels survived no one knew, for any large scale food production would have been spotted by the patrols and wiped out. One or two crackpot theorists said the bandits fed themselves by hunting wild game, but that was absurd. It was common fact throughout the civilized galaxy that any culture which evolved as far as the Power Age would, in the normal process of growth, eliminate all planetary animal life. The accepted explanation was the food cache theory. According to it, the Earthmen -- sometime after the conquest and before the prison compounds were set up -- had raided their own cities and hidden the packaged food in remote mountain areas. The supply was decidedly limited. When it was gone, the rebels faced starvation unless they returned voluntarily to the compounds. The Sierra range between the Nevada station and the coast had become a haven for so many escaped Earthmen that the region was marked "enemy territory" on the occupation maps. Although Tchassen was aware of that, he knew he could not assume that, because the four survivors had to pass through a rebel area, they would discover a cache of food. Far too many organized expeditions, sent out expressly for that purpose, had returned empty handed. As the afternoon shadows lengthened and the sedan seemed to be moving no closer to the snowcapped peaks, the air became colder. Tchassen's naked chest was studded with gooseflesh. Drein and Briggan were rubbing their arms to keep warm. Tchassen was accustomed to the controlled temperatures on the civilized worlds and the comforts of the beam ships. It hadn't occurred to him that the regular military imiform might be inadequate. He felt the subtle pulsing of fear, the crushing loneliness of a stranger on an alien world. He fingered die barrel of a dispersal ray, but the weapon gave him no sense of security. He had a terrible sensation of psychological nakedness. The weapons could drive off bandits, but what protection did Tchassen have against the unknown elements of a savage world? We've failed; we have no right to be here: the words lashed at his mind like an insinuating poison. He could feel sweat on his face and chest, sweat turning cold in the icy wind. Now the sedan entered a decaying village nestled close to the mountains. It was in an amazingly good state of repair -- undoubtedly because it was located so far from the coastal cities that it had escaped destruction during the invasion. Then, too, the village was too close to the Nevada compound for the Earth people to have looted it. Tchassen tapped on Drein's shoulder and ordered him to stop the sedan. "We need warmer clothing," the Captain explained, "before we start up the grade." "I suppose we might pick up something here," Sergeant Briggan conceded. "This place is called Reno. It was one of the few communities still intact after the invasion." "I'm scared," Tynia said. "The prisoners may be hiding here, waiting for us." "They have better sense than to face a dispersal ray without any protection." Tchassen's tone was crisp with an assurance he didn't feel, but it satisfied her. Drein opened the door and stood on the sidewalk, waiting for Tchassen to hand out one of the weapons. But Tchassen couldn't be sure Drein was not an Earthman; nor, on the other hand, could he ask the Corporal to explore an enemy town unarmed. As a sort of compromise, Tchassen said, "We'll stick together; I'll carry all the weapons. Corporal." It wasn't satisfactory, but both Drein and Briggan were too welldisciplined to protest. Tchassen felt foolish with six dispersal rays and a heat beam slung over his shoulders, but he couldn't risk leaving anything in the sedan, either. The survivors spent a good part of an hour searching the downtown stores, but Reno had been stripped of native artifacts; the buildings were empty shells filled with dust. The only chance they had of finding clothing was to look in the private homes closer to the outskirts. They went back to the sedan and drove to a residential street. By that time the sun was setting. Tchassen did not relish the prospect of being caught in an enemy town after dark, but the search could be speeded up only if they separated. For a second time the Captain compromised. He issued dispersal rays to the others, but insisted that they work in pairs. If one of them was an enemy, that arrangement would more or less tie his hands. Tynia volunteered to go with Drein; Tchassen felt a pang of envy and jealousy, but he had better sense than to use his authority to force her to come with him. Tchassen and the Sergeant searched through half a dozen houses before they found one that had not been looted. Their luck was unbelievable, for they found shelves of canned food as well as clothing sealed in plastic bags. From an open window the Captain fired a dispersal ray toward the sky, a signal prearranged with the others. As the needle of light arched above the village, Tchassen heard a distant blast of explosions and Tynia's shrill scream of terror. "It's a bandit raid!" Briggan cried. He turned to run toward the street. Tchassen's hand shot out and caught the Sergeant's shoulder. "Not so fast. I said we'd stay in pairs." "But Tynia's in trouble! The Earth people are barbarians, sir. They give no quarter. They --  "I'm still in command, Sergeant." Briggan stiffened. "Yes, sir." The two men walked toward the source of the sound. Tchassen couldn't allow himself to run, even to help Tynia; the extertion would have been too much for him. There was another clatter of shots and Tchassen recognized the gunfire of the primitive Earth weapons. In the darkness it was vaguely disturbing, but not frightening. Both Tynia and Drein were armed with dispersal rays; they would have no trouble defending themselves. Sudden footsteps pelted toward them. Tynia ran from a dark side street and threw herself into the Captain's arms. She clung to him, trembling and panting for breath. "Where's Drein?" he demanded. "The Corporal -- he took my gun. He tried to kill me!" "Tynia, do you understand what you're saying? The accusation -- " "You told us to stay together. I did my best. I was going through a house when I realized suddenly that I was alone. I saw Drein outside; I thought he was talking to someone. I ran out and -- " She bit her lip and hid her eyes against his shoulder. In a flat, emotionless voice, Tchassen asked, "Drein was with Earthmen?" "I don't know! Someone sprang at me and knocked the ray out of my hands. I saw people -- I thought I saw people -- in the shadows behind Corporal Drein. I bean to run. I don't want to accuse him of -- of anything, Captain. I can't be sure. If he's an Earthman, we have to -- we have to dispose of him, and I wouldn't want -- " Her voice trailed off in a gasp of terror as they heard a new burst of gunfire, very close. Tchassen dodged aside, pulling Tynia behind a tree. Sergeant Briggan fired blindly into the night. His dispersal beam danced across the face of a frame building and the house exploded into flame. In the red glare of the fire, Tchassen saw a band of savages, dressed in animal hides -- no that was impossible! -- fleeing into the darkness beyond the village. Corporal Drein staggered toward them. Blood spilled from a gash tom in his chest. He saw Tchassen, Tynia and the Sergeant standing together. Like a man in a daze, he began to raise his dispersal ray. In Tchassen's mind there was no longer any room for doubt; the tmth was clear. Drein was an Earthman ; Drein had betrayed the station; Drein now intended to kill off the only survivors. The Captain acted with military decision. He pressed the firing stud of his weapon. Drein screamed in agony as he died. Tynia buried her face in her hands. Briggan put his arm around her. In the flickering light, Tchassen saw the Sergeant grin. "You didn't have to kill him, Captain," Tynia whispered. "After what you told me -- "Don't blame me; I didn't do anything!" "He was going to fire at us, wasn't he?" "You don't know that for sure. Maybe he was asking for help!" Tchassen shrugged ; there was no accounting for the emotional inconsistencies of a woman. "What did you eect to prove by murdering Drein?" Briggan asked. "I saved us from -- "If he was an Earthman, why were the bandits firing at him? Why had they wounded him?" "To make it look good," Tchassen replied, no longer really believing it himself. "They wanted our weapons; they have to use trickery to get them away from us." Tchassen slid the weapon out of Drein's lifeless fingers and halfheartedly searched the street for Tynia's dispersal ray. He didn't expect to find it. The Earth people had it now. The loss of the weapon was, in one sense, more serious than the destruction of the Nevada station. A prison compound could be rebuilt and restaffed. But if the Earth ever faced the conqueror with equal firepower, Earthmen would recapture their world -- and more. We've failed ; we have no right to be here -- the Captain fought a burning nausea as the fear washed over his mind. What had they accomplished by the occupation? The Earth was neither enslaved nor destroyed. Hatred made the natives savages. They would never be content until they had revenge. They never conceded defeat; they never would. Corporal Drein seemed to be typical of their fanaticism, and that was why Tchassen had killed him -- that, and the hysterical story Tynia had told. On calmer reflection, Tchassen knew he had no proof of Drein's disloyalty -- which meant that either Briggan or Tynia could be Earth natives. That problem was unsolved; the danger was undiminished. tle time looking for the weapon Tynia had lost. After twenty minutes, the three survivors returned to the house where Tchassen and Briggan had found food and clothing. TTiey packed the canned goods into the sedan and put on warm coats and jackets. Although the woolens and the cottons fell to pieces when they touched the cloth, the synthetic fabrics were still relatively sound, particularly when they had been sealed in mothproof plastic. Tchassen took over the driving when they left Reno. For greater warmth, Tynia and the Sergeant crowded into the front seat beside him. As they ascended the grade toward the pass, the air turned much colder. Tchassen's hands felt numb on the wheel and the altitude made his mind swim in a haze of vague nausea. There was no moon and the headlights of the sedan had been smashed long ago. The Captain drove very slowly, concentrating on the curves of the highway. Three times the machine narrowly missed going over the edge; the guard rail saved them. Tchassen knew he was risking their lives to drive at night, but he had no alternative. They would not be really safe again until they reached the base on the coast, and the Earth people would try to prevent that. They would try to make sure that no survivors lived to report what had happened at the Nevada station. Briggan fished three cans of food out of the back of the car and blasted them open with his dispersal ray. The can he handed Tchassen contained a fruit in a heavy, sickly sweet syrup. Tchassen made himself empty the tin. Tynia had a pinkish meat which she was totally unable to choke down. The civilized galaxy had been vegetarian for two thousand years; a clear indication of the savagery of the Earth culture was the fact that the natives still ate animal flesh. Briggan opened another can for Tynia. After a brief hesitation, he began to eat the meat himself. Tynia gagged and looked away. "I don't see how you can do it, Sergeant." "We may be on the road longer than we think," he answered. "We can't afford to waste anything; we aren't likely to find another food cache." Tchassen glanced at Briggan suspiciously. It was possible that he could force himself to stomach the meat, if he were starving, but how was he able to eat it now? An Earthman could do it; yet if Briggan were at native, wasn't he too clever to give himself away with anything so trivial? "Tell me. Captain," Briggan asked, "what chance do we have of getting through this alive?" "We're armed; we have transportation; we -- " "And the natives will risk everything to stop us. They have to. This attack on the Nevada station was the beginning of the revolution. If they plan the rest of it as carefully, they stand a good chance of throwing us off the Earth." "No!" Tynia cried. "Now that they know the civilized galaxy exists, they'll build space ships and come after us. With our weapons --  "Plus their fanaticism," Tchassen put in, "the galaxy doesn't stand a chance." "But we invaded the Earth to prevent that; we came here to teach them to live civilized lives." "How much teaching have we actually done in the compounds?" the Sergeant demanded. "How many Earth people have listened to us?" "They're human beings; they have brains like ours. Surely when we have explained our ways to them logically and sanely -- " "The trouble is," Tchassen said thoughtfully, "it's our logic, not theirs. If you look at this from the point of view of an Earthman, you see us as savage invaders of their world." "Our purpose makes it different." "We say that, but the Earth people wouldn't understand us." "It's very strange," Sergeant Briggan said quietly, "that you understand the Earthman's point of view so well, Captain Tchassen. Let's see. You've been here -- how many days?" "Five." "But you set yourself up as an authority on these people." "Gome now. Sergeant. I didn't say that. I'm simply trying to understand them reasonably." "To think like an Earthman: that's rather difficult for us to do, Captain." Briggan paused briefly before he snapped out a rapid question, "Where were you stationed before you came here. Captain?" "At security headquarters." "Assigned to what staff?" "Well, I was -- " Tchassen glanced at Tynia. It would do no good, now, to explain why he had been assigned to the Nevada post. All that was finished because the station staff died in the explosion. "I wasn't on any staff," he said. "I was working on my own." "That's a pity, sir. You wouldn't remember the name of your commanding officer, then; I could have checked up on that." Tynia gasped; only then did Tchassen realize what Briggan's questions implied. He said coldly, "You're way off the track, Briggan. I'm the only one of you who couldn't be an Earthman; I haven't become acclimated yet -- that's obvious, isn't it?" "Of course you're right, sir. It wouldn't be the sort of thing you could put over by playing a part, would it? Besides, Drein was the Earthman and you killed him. We've no reason to be suspicious of each other now, have we?" There was no way Tchassen could reply. He gritted his teeth and said nothing. From the expression on Tynia's face, he realized that Briggan's insinuation had been rather effective. And suppose Briggan actually believed it himself. Didn't that rule out the Sergeant as an Earthman? And it left only Tynia. Tchassen eyed the dark-haired woman on the seat beside him. What did he really know about her? -- only that she had been married to a station commander; and had flirted outrageously with other post officers. She may have done it simply because she was bored; on the other hand, it could have been a deliberate attempt to create friction -- exactly the sort of thing an Earth woman might try to do. Perhaps she was a native. When Tchassen was given the security assignment, he hadn't checked into her background; it didn't seem necessary. He realized suddenly that Tynia was the only witness against Drein. Because of what she had said, Tchassen had killed the Corporal. Tynia's hysteria had set the stage for murder. As the sedan climbed higher into the pass, it moved more slowly. The motor coughed and wheezed; once or twice it seemed ready to stop altogether. When they reached the summit, the tenuous crescent of a new moon emerged above the pines. In the pale glow of light, Tchassen saw that the highway was covered with a treacherous sheet of ice. The metal rims found no traction. When the machine began to skid, the Captain found he could neither control it nor stop it. In spite of the cold, his body was covered with sweat. At a point four or five miles beyond the summit, they came to a place where thick trees on both sides of the highway shaded the road so the sun never reached it. The ice was continuous for a hundred feet or more, and it was covered with three inches of unmelted snow. The sedan skidded out of control. Tynia screamed and hid her face in her hands. Tchassen fought the wheel futilely. The car spun toward the shoulder, banged against a tree, and slid across the road into a clearing in front of an abandoned building. In the sudden silence Tchassen heard nothing but the whisper of icy wind in the. trees. He opened the door and looked at the deserted building. The roofs of the smaller structures nearby had collapsed under the pressure of winter snows, but the main building, sheltered by tall pines, was in good repair. "We'd be warmer inside," Tchassen suggested. "In the morning after the sun comes out -- " "Captain!" Briggan broke in. "We must reach the coast!" " -- after the sun comes out, the ice on the road should begin to melt; the driving will be much easier." "Don't you realize, sir -- these mountains are enemy territory?" "We're still well-armed. Sergeant." "We had the rays in Reno, too, but Drein's dead." "I tell you we'll be safe here. I remember a trick I saw demonstrated at the school of tactics." "You security men have the advantage. I'm just an enlisted noncom. I never went to the military schools and learned any fancy tricks, but I know I have a duty to reach the coast and report what's happened." Tynia took Briggan's arm. "The sedan won't run, Sergeant. Surely you aren't saying we have to walk -- " "It's interesting, isn't it, that the car stopped right here -- in front of a place where it would be so convenient for us to spend the night?" "What do you mean, Briggan?" "I wasn't doing the driving, Tynia." A hard knot of anger exploded in Tchassen's mind, but he held his temper. It was easier to ignore Briggan than to answer his suspicion. In a tone that concealed his feelings, the Captain said, "Let me show you what I saw them do in the demonstration, Sergeant." He slid out of the sedan. With numb fingers, he opened the firing box of the portable heat ray and took out one of the two thermal coils. Breaking the seal, he began to unwind the thin thread of wire. "We have our own alarm system right here," he explained, trying to convey more enthusiasm than he really felt. "Nearly a quarter mile of wire. We'll string it in a circle around this clearing, six inches above the ground. The natives will never notice it. If they attack us, they'll snap the wire and set off the thermal reaction. We'll be surrounded for a second or two in a blazing ring of fire." "Maybe it'll work. Captain." The two men strung the wire while Tynia lugged the weapons and the canned goods into the abandoned building. When the Sergeant and Tchassen went inside, they found that she had started a fire in a pot-bellied stove. The Captain stood holding his hands over the flames and gradually he began to feel warm again. He knew that the pillar of smoke rising from the chimney might invite an attack by the natives, but there was also a good chance that the smoke would disperse before it could be spotted. The warmth of the fire acted like an opiate, but Tchassen realized he didn't dare risk falling asleep. Tynia or Briggan might be Earth people, waiting for the chance to finish the job they had begun when the Nevada station was destroyed. After a brief hesitation, the Captain took another shock capsule from his belt pouch and choked it down. The drug would keep him awake, although it was dangerous to take a second capsule so soon after the first; there were sometimes emotional side-affects which were unpleasant. "One of us should stay on guard," Briggan said. "We could take turns at it, Captain -- two hour stints until dawn." "Good idea, Briggan. I'll stand the first watch." "I was going to volunteer -- "No ; you're tired ; you and Tynia need your sleep." "You're too considerate of us. Captain." The overtone in Briggan's voice suggested far more than he actually said. He lay back on his blankets, but he did not shut his eyes, and he put his dispersal ray across his belly with his hand on the firing stud. Tchassen stood up, sliding a weapon over each shoulder. He went through a connecting hall into a narrow room. A few scattered dishes, overlooked by the looters, and built-in cooking machines indicated that this had been a restaurant. The room gave him an excellent vantage point, for the windows, still unbroken, provided a broad view of the highway and the clearing in front of the building. The restaurant was bitterly cold. Tchassen pulled the rough, fibrous clothing tight around his shoulders, but it felt irritating rather than warm. He looked out on the ice and the snow and the pines, and he was acutely conscious of the savage alienness of Earth. Snow he knew as a scientific curiosity; he had seen it created in laboratory experiments. Nowhere in the civilized galaxy did it exist as a natural phenomenon. The teemevery world could not survive unless every square inch of soil was occupied and exploited. Science regimented the temperatures in the same way that it controlled rainfall. For more than twenty centuries neither deserts nor Arctic wastes had existed. All animal species had disappeared. Trees survived only as ornamental growths in city parks. The Earth was a relic of the past, a barbaric museum piece. The strong, individualistic genius of its people had evolved in no other society; and that genius had created a technology which mushroomed far beyond the capacity to control it. It gave this savage world atomic power before it had planetary unity. For that reason, the civilized galaxy had invaded the Earth. They could do nothing else. The decision had been made long before Tchassen was bom. The galactic council of scientists studied the Earth and argued the meaning of their observations for a quarter of a century before they ordered the invasion. War, to the civilized galaxy, was unthinkable ; yet the government had no alternative. For, with even their primitive form of atomic power, the Earth people could blow their world to dust. The planet had to be occupied to save the natives from the consequences of their own folly. But what does it matter, Tchassen thought bitterly, if our intentions were noble and unselfish? It's what Earth thinks we meant to do that counts. And by that standard we've failed. We have no right to be here. Alone in the cold darkness of the abandoned restaurant, Tchassen faced the fear gnawing at his soul. The drug he had taken warped his depression into a crushing weight of melancholy. The occupation of the Earth had gone wrong -- or so it seemed to him -- because the council of scientists misjudged the native mentality. True, these people had it didn't follow that they would comprehend the social forces at work in the civilized galaxy. Their emotional reactions were at best on an adolescent level; intelligence alone would not lift them up to maturity. The prisoners in the compounds learned nothing but hatred ; they lived for nothing but revenge. Vividly Tchassen saw the nightmare of the future: the time when the savages on the Earth had weapons to match the dispersal ray; the time when they would be able to build ships that could invade the civilized galaxy. flcx)r in front of the serving counter. Briggan did not come in two hours to take over the watch; and he made no attempt to call the Sergeant. It was long after midnight, perhaps less than an hour before dawn, when something outside triggered the thermal-wire alarm. Simultaneously, as the blaze of white glared against the restaurant windows, Tynia screamed. Tchassen heard the explosive blast of a dispersal ray slashing into wood. A split-second later Tynia burst through the connecting hall and flung herself into Tchassen's arms. "They're attacking!" she screamed. "You saw them? Where?" "Briggan. At the window. I -- I shot him." His fingers bit into the soft flesh of her arm. "Take it easy, Tynia. Tell me how it happened." "I saw him when the alarm went off. He was lifting his dispersal ray, as if he meant to shoot you. I remembered how he had eaten meat last night, and I -- I thought -- She shuddered. "I knew he was an Earthman. He was the one who blew up the supply robot; now he wants to kill us." "You were sure Drein was an Earthman, too." "What do you mean by that?" "It's obvious, isn't it?" "Obvious?" She shrank back against the counter. He ignored her but kept her within the range of his peripheral vision while he glanced through the window, trying to locate what had set off the alarm. The circle of heat had melted all the snow and ice in the clearing; the trunks of the pines were smoldering and a comer of the building was beginning to bum. Tchassen saw a chunk of flesh lying on the road -- an animal of some sort which had blundered into the alarm wire. Then they had not been attacked by natives. The dead animal made it very clear that wild beasts still survived on the Earth. No wonder the natives were meat eaters! And, since they were, that meant they could live indefinitely in the remote mountain areas. They did not depend upon hidden caches of food; starvation would never drive them back to the prison compounds. The occupation policy was based upon a false assumption; more than ever it was vitally imperative for Tchassen to reach the coast and report the tmth to his superiors. Tchassen shifted his weapon so that his fingers lay on the firing stud. Tynia stared at him, her eyes wide with terror. In a tight whisper, she said, "Then you -- you're the Earthman, Captain!" He grinned, admiring her skillful use of emotion. If he hadn't known better, he would have taken her fear for the real thing. Maybe it was ; he couldn't be sure, but the facts seemed to add up to only one answer. Tynia laid the groundwork she herself shot Briggan. And who had been in a better position to tamper with the landing beam for the supply rocket? Who else had a better opportunity to destroy the transmitter in the emergency pillbox? Yet, even in the face of so much evidence, Tchassen gave her the benefit of the doubt! his reasoning might have been colored by the drug he had taken. With the mouth of his weapon, he nudged her toward the hall. 'Go back and pick up the food, Tynia. We're leaving here now." She clenched her fist over her mouth. "Don't turn me over to them. Captain. Let me go. I've never done you Earth people any harm." Magnificent acting! No wonder they had sent her to the Nevada station. "We're heading for the coast," he explained. "The sedan wouldn't go last night; it won't now, either." "We'll push the car back to the highway. The downgrade is steep enough to make the machine run without power. If that doesn't work, we can always walk." "It'll be warmer if we wait until daylight." "And the natives would be here by that time, too, wouldn't they? The glare of the thermal explosion was visible for miles." "I didn't sleep at all last night, Captain. I don't have the energy to -- " With the dispersal ray, he pushed her along the hall toward the room where she and Briggan had slept in front of the pot-bellied stove. Naturally she would try to keep him there, he thought; he didn't need much more proof of her disloyalty. Flames from the burning wall lit the room. As they entered, Tynia screamed and fell back against Tchassen. "The Sergeant's gone!" she gasped. "Along with the weapons you left in here." "Then he -- he's the Earthman, Captain; you aren't!" "You said you'd shot him." "I fired at him. I saw him fall. I thought he was dead." Tchassen wanted to believe her, but the husky, deep-throated appeal in her voice couldn't quite destroy the hard core of his doubt. This could be an alibi which she could have contrived for herself. She might have hidden the weapons as well as Briggan's body. If Tchassen believed her, if he let himself trust her, it would be easier later on for her to dispose of him. "Pack up the food, Tynia; I'm going to see if I can start the car." When he went outside, the dawn was brightening the eastern sky. The snow and ice, melted by the thermal fire, made a slushy sheet of water in the clearing; it ate at the drifts, sluggishly washing the snow into the highway. Tchassen waded through the water toward the sedan. His boots kept him dry, but the cold penetrated and made his feet numb. Hidden by the water were tiny, unmelted puddles of ice which made very treacherous footing. Twice the Captain slipped and nearly went down. He was twenty feet from the car when he heard the door of the building bang open behind him. He glanced back, calling Tynia a waming to be careful of the hidden ice. At the same time she screamed. Tchassen swung aside instinctively. He slipped and fell. From the back of the sedan a thread of energy snaked toward him. Tchassen felt the momentary pain stab at his shoulder; then nothing. He lay flat in the icy water, fighting the red haze that hung over his mind. If the dispersal ray had come half an inch closer to his heart, it would have cut the artery and killed him. Sergeant Briggan opened the door of the sedan and stood leaning against it, holding a dispersal ray in his left hand. The Sergeant was badly wounded. His right arm was an unrecognizable, bleeding pulp; he was too weak to stand alone. So Tynia had told the truth, Tchassen thought ; she actually had shot him. The Captain felt a surge of relief and hope. Perhaps he could rely on Tynia, after all. But now it was too late! The blast from the Sergeant's weapon had paralyzed Tchassen's motor control; he was helpless. The Sergeant, obviously, assumed that Tchassen was dead. Ignoring him, he ordered Tynia to pile the canned food in the back of the sedan. She moved toward him slowly. "You're the Earthman," she said dully. "And I thought Captain Tchassen -- " "The farce is over, Tynia. You and Tchassen made a fine game of it far a while, but I've been in the service long enough to spot a fake security officer." "The Captain and I?" she repeated. "Do I have to draw you a blueprint? You two are in this together. You're both natives." For a moment she seemed to recover her self-assurance. "So that's how you're going to play it. Sergeant. Just who do you think you'll take in with such nonsense?" "I'm through batting words around with you, Tynia. Put the food in the car. Help me push the machine out to the road." "Why bother, Sergeant? If you stay right here, the natives will be along soon enough." "I'm glad you admit that, Tynia." Briggan laughed sourly. "But it's my duty to get through to the base -- just as it's your duty, I suppose, to try to stop me." "Why do you still want to make me believe that. Sergeant? What difference does it make now?" Tchassen, paralyzed and unable to speak, suddenly realized the truth. Each of them feared the other. All four surviviors had assumed that one of the others had to be an Earthman. We put our faith in machines, he thought; we were too certain that the robot ship couldn't crash simply because something had gone wrong with the beam. Our real trouble is we have no faith in ourselves. None of us was an Earthman; the Earth people had nothing to do with the destruction of the Nevada station. He wanted desperately to shout that out. After a supreme effort, he was able to make his lips move a fraction of an inch; and that was all. Tynia put the canned food in the sedan. Briggan waved her to the back of the car with his weapon. He held the beam leveled at her while she pushed the sedan toward the road. The clearing was built on a slight slant and she had no trouble moving the heavy vehicle. As the wheels began to turn, Tynia pretended to slip and fall into the slushy water. Briggan was distracted by the motion of the sedan. Tynia rolled toward Tchassen and snatched up his dispersal ray. The Sergeant realized what she intended to do and lifted his weapon awkwardly in his left hand. No! Stop! Don't be fools! The words sang through Tchassen's mind, but he could not speak. Briggan and Tynia fired simultaneously. The beam caught the Sergeant squarely in the face. He died in a blaze of energy. The sedan rolled into the road and Tynia fell unconscious beside Tchassen. He wanted to help her, but he was still not able to move. In another half hour the paralysis would be gone, but by that time it would be too late to do anything for Tynia. Furiously he drove his body to respond and he managed to turn on his side. The exertion was too much for him. The haze swam in painful waves across his mind. Just before unconsciousness came, he saw a band of natives on the edge of the clearing. The swaying motion of the stretcher shook him awake. The Earthmen were carrying him along a narrow mountain trail, past deep drifts of snow. His wound, where Briggan's beam had hit him, was neatly bandaged; he could smell the odor of a disinfectant. It surprised him that the Earth people knew so much about medicine; but it surprised him more that they had tried to save his life. He listened to his captors when they talked. He was able to understand a few phrases of the native dialect which every man assigned to the occupation had to learn, but what he had been taught was sadly inadequate. When one of his stretcher bearers saw that the Captain was conscious, he spoke to him in the cultured language of the civilized galaxy. The syntax was awkwardly handled, yet Tchassen was amazed that the Earthman used it so well. "Be no fear," the native said. "You get living again." "Tynia. The girl with me -- " "Wound bad ; she dead before we come. We follow from prison and try help all four you. You light each other. You have evil weapons. We can save only you." "What are you going to do with me?" "Make you well ; send you back." The answer came as a shock to Tchassen; it was what a civilized people would have said. But the Earth natives were savages -- brilliant, inventive individualists, but nonetheless social barbarians. It would have seemed much more logical if the native had said he was keeping Tchassen for a religious ceremonial sacrifice. "As soon as my wounds are healed," Tchassen repeated, "you'll let me go?" The native ran his hand over the Captain's bandages. "This wound is a little thing, of no importance." He touched Tchassen's head. "Here is your real sickness, in the brain. We teach you how to think like a man ; then you go home." "You're going to teach me? Me? Do you realize, I come from the civilized galaxy?" Tchassen began to laugh; he wondered if he had been taken prisoner by a band of madmen. "We show you how to be human," the native answered blandly. "Not fight and kill each other, the way you and the others did when the post blow up. We know meaning for civilization; you have none. It is easy secret. We learn after the invasion, when our world destroyed. Real civilized people get along; live in peace; give help to each other. Your people and ours: we can be brothers here on the Earth, and on your other worlds, too." Tchassen's laughter was touched with hysteria. Have we failed? He knew the answer now: for the captives, the dispossessed men of the Earth, would become the teachers of the conquerors -- and teach them what the conquerors had come to build on the Earth. No, we have not failed; we have simply misunderstood the strange genius of the quixotic Earth. The defeated would one day rise up and conquer the galaxy. Tchassen saw that clearly, but no longer in fear. He wanted to make their stamina, their grit, their ability to survive a part of himself. He wanted to make himself over -- as an Earthman.    I; ironic implications about the future of Mankind. Artist Kelly  ; Frease has depicted a world in which the female of the species I completely dominates the human race in business, politics, the  ! arts and, particularly, in sheer physical size and prowess. The I hands of our amazonian "cover girl" are fitted with brass I knuckles rather than boxing gloves, which in itself suggests sevI eral characteristics of this woman of tomorrow. We've developed  quite a few lines of thought about the lady ourselves; but we I I thought it might be more interesting to see what conclusions our i  readers would draw.  What do you think of our "World's Champion"? No matter I what your interpretation, let's have it. Study the picture a while for the psychological and moral as well as the physical implications involved. Then put your ideas down on paper. For the  ' five best letters received by us before midnight December #, (#), we'll pay # each. Address: Editor, IF Magazine, KingI ston. New York.  T Tying to keep a supercolossal laboratory invisible when two curious aliens are poking around can be a apology: "They're landing, Master." Pud looked up from the tiny thigfied he had been shaping in his tentacles. "Of course they are," he thoughtsnapped. "You practically invited them down, didn't you? If you'd only kept a few eyes on the Detector, instead of day-dreaming -- " "I'm sorry," Gop said unhappily. "I wasn't day-dreaming, I was observing the magnificent skill and finesse with which you shaped the thig. After all, this system is so isolated. No one ever came along before... I just supposed no one ever would -- "A Scientist isn't supposed to suppose! Until he's proven wrong, he's supposed to know! Thirty of Pud's eyes glowered upward at the tiny alien spaceship, only ninety or so miles above the surface of the laboratory-planet and lowering rapidly. The rest of Pud's eyes -- more than a hundred of them, set haphazardously in his varioussized heads like gurf-seeds on rolls -- scoured every inch of the planet's visible surface, to make certain that no sign of the Vegans' presence on the planet, from the tiniest experiment to the gigantic servo-mechanical eating pits, was left operating or visible. Irritatedly he squelched out of existence a yfm-field that had taken three weeks of laborious psychoinduction to develop. His psychokineticut stripped it of cohesion, and its faint whine-and-crackle vanished. 'T told you to deactivate all our experiments," he snapped at Gop. "Don't you understand Vegan?" Abashed, the Junior Scientist lowered his many eyes. "I -- I'm sorry," Gop said humbly. "I thought the yim might wait until the creatures landed. Master... perhaps their auditory apparatus would not have been sufficient to reveal its presence to them, in which case the field would not have had to be -- " "All right, all right," Pud grunted. "I appreciate your point... but, dripping mouthfuls, you know that any risk of detection is too great. You know the regulations on Contact!" "Yes, Master." "Speaking of which, part of your seventh head is showing." The Junior Scientist included the head in the personal invisibility field which he himself was broadcasting. "Of all the sims in this sector," Illustrated by Ed Emsh Pud thought, eying the little spaceship, "and of all the planets around this particular sun, they have to choose this one to land on. Chew!" Gop flushed. A member of the Transverse Colon Revivalists, he found Pud's constant atheistic swearing very disturbing. He sighed inwardly. Usually at least one of Pud's heads could manage to keep its sense of humor, but right now all of them were like proton-storms. The Senior Scientist was on the verge of one of his totalitantrums. "They must have sighted flashes from our experiments," Pud went on, "before you decided you could spare just one set of eyes for the Detector!" Though both Vegans were invisible to other eyes, they remained visible to each other because their eyes were adjusted to the wavelength of their invisibility fields. By the same token, they could see all their invisible experiments -- a vast litter of gadgets, gismos, gargantuan gimmicks, shining tools, huge and infinitesimal instruments, stacks of supplies, and various types of energy fields, the latter all frozen in mid-activity like smudges on a pane of glass. The sandy ground was the floor of the Vegans' laboratory; small hills and outcroppings of rock were their chairs and workbenches. Like a spaceship junkyard, or an enormous open-air machinery warehouse, the laboratory stretched away from the two Scientists in every direction to the planetoid's near horizon. Pud intensified the general invisibility field to the last notch, and the invisible experiments became even more invisible. The Af-field was a namelesscolored whorl of energy in the Senior Scientist's tentacles. In his concern for the other experiments, he had forgotten to deactivate it. It grew eagerly to the size of a back yard, then of a baseball diamond, then of a traffic oval, and one shimmering edge of it touched his body, which he had not insulated. Energy crackled. Pud jumped forty feet into the air, swearing, and slapped the field into non-existence between two tentacles. His body, big as an apartment house, floated slowly downward in the laboratory-planet's light gravity. The tiny alien spaceship touched the ground just as he did. The rocket flare flickered and died. The ship sat on its fins, about thirty feet -- Vegan feet -- away. In its shining side, a few Vegan inches above the still smoking rocket tubes, was a small black hole. "Master, look!" Gop thought. "Their ship is damaged... perhaps that's why they landed!" And he started to extend a tentative extra-sensory probe through the hole. Pud lashed out with a probe of his own, knocking Gop's aside before it could enter the hole. "Nincompoop!... don't go esprobing until we know if they're sensitive to it or not! Can't you remember the regulations on Contact for just one minute? The tiny spaceship sat silently, while its occupants evidently studied the lay of the land. Small turrets halfway up its sides twitched this way and that, pointing popgun armament. Pud inspected the weapons extrasensorily, and thought an amused snort: the things tossed a simple hydrogen-helium pellet for a short distance. Gop, nursing a walloping headache as a result of Pud's rough counterprobe, thought sourly to himself : "I try to save the yim... that's wrong. He forgets to deactivate the thig... that's all right. I esprobe... that's wrong. He esprobes... that's all right." At last: "They're getting out," Gop observed. A tiny airlock had opened in the side of the ship. A metal ladder poked out, swung down, settled against the ground. The aliens -- two of them -- appeared; looked down, looked up, looked to the right and to the left. Then they came warily down the ladder. For a few minutes the giant Vegans watched the creatures wander about. One of them approached one of Pud's tails. Irritatedly Pud lifted it out of the way. The little creature snooped on, unaware that twenty tons of invisible silicoid flesh hung over its head. Pud curled the tail close to him, and did likewise with all his other tails. "You'd better do the same," he advised Gop, his thought-tone peevish. Silently, Gop drew in his tails. One unwise move, he knew, and the Senior Scientist would start thinking in roars. One of Gop's tails scraped slightly against a huge boulder. The scales made a tractor-on-gravel sound. Pud thought in roars. The tiny creature had stopped and was turning its helmeted head this way and that, as if trying to see where the sound had come from. It had drawn a weapon of some sort from a holster at its belt -- another thermonuclear popgun. The creature turned and came back toward the Vegans, heading for his ship. Pud lifted his tail again. The creature passed under it, reached the ship, joined its partner. JL Gorman said nervously. "A loud scraping noise -- " "It seemed to come from right behind me," Johnny Gorman said. "Damn near scared me off the planet... I thought it was a rockslide. Or the biggest critter in creation, sneaking up on me. I couldn't see anything, though... , could you?" "No." Johnny stood there, blaster in hand, looking around, eyes sharp behind his faceplate. He saw nothing but flat, grayish-red ground, a scattering of stone outcroppings large and small; nothing but the star-clouded black of space above the near horizon, and the small sun of the system riding a low hillock like a beacon. "Blue light," he said thoughtfully. "Green light. Red and purple lights. And a mess of crazy colors we never saw before. Whatever those flashes were, honey, they looked artificial to me... Helen frowned. "We were pretty far oflF-world when we saw them, Johnny. Maybe they were aurorae -- or reflections from mineral pockets. Or magnetic phenomena of some kind... that could be why the ship didn't handle right during landing -- " Johnny studied the upside-down dials on the protruding chest-board of his spacesuit. "No neon in the atmosphere," he said. "Darned little argon, or any Ollier inert gas. The only large mineral deposits within fifty miles are straight down. And this clod's about as magnetic as an onion." He gave the surrounding bleak terrain another narrow-eyed scrutiny. "I suppose it could have been some kind of aurora, though... it's gone now, and there isn't a sign of anything that could have produced such a rumpus." He looked around again, then sighed and finally bolstered his blaster. "Guess I'm the worrying type, hon. Nothing alive around here." "I wonder what that sound was." "Probably a rock falling. This area's been undisturbed for God the jolt of our landing just shook things up a little." He grinned, a little sheepishly. "As for the landing... I was so scared after that meteor hit us, it's a wonder I didn't nail the ship halfway into the planet, instead of just jolting us up." Helen looked up at the three-foot hole in the side of the ship. Johnny followed her gaze, and grunted. "We'd better get to work." He turned to the ladder that led up to the airlock. "I'll rig the compressor to charge the spare oxytanks... we'll have to delouse this air of ammonia, but otherwise it's fine. Look, honey, I won't need any help; why don't you get busy on a PC?" Helen nodded, still staring up at the meteor-hole. "You know," she said slowly, "it wouldn't happen Johnny. Thank God, this clod was here... we ought to name it Lifesaver." "Yeah, sure," Johnny said ironically. "It'll save our lives. Only thing is, it got us into this mess in the first place!" He started up the ladder, using only his arms, legs trailing. Helen got down on hands and knees and began poking around for the two dozen or so samples needed for Standard Planetary Classification. Bits of rock, air, vegetable growth, dust -- the dust was very important. All went into vac-containers at her belt. Then suddenly she said, "O-o-ooo.'" and reared back on her knees and clapped both hands to her helmet. Her eyes squeezed shut behind her faceplate, then opened wide and frightened. By the time her hands reached her helmet, Johnny had his blaster out and was floating toward the ground, looking around for something to shoot at. His boots touched, and two long light-gravity steps brought him to her side. Pud had been leaning over the tiny spaceship, one of his faces only feet above the little creatures. Gop's thought came: "What are they?" "Fanged if I know. Bipeds... never saw such little ones." Pud adjusted several eyes to a certain wavelength and studied the creatures through their spacesuits. He gave Gop a thought-nod: "Mammals. Bi-sexual. They're probably mates." "It's a miracle they didn't land right in the middle of one of our experiments." That brought back Pud's illtemper. "Miracle! Didn't you see me give this cosmic kiddycar of theirs a couple of psychokineticlouts so they'd land where they did?" The Senior Scientist glared around at their thousand-and-one experiments, and then down at the little spaceship, smaller than the smallest of them, squatting on toy fins. He curled a tentacle, as if wishing he could swat it. Gop knew, however, that despite Pud's irritation at having his work interrupted, he was just a little intrigued by the aliens. No matter how insignificant they were they were animate life of some intelligence, and Pud must be wondering about them. Gop thought it might be a good idea to dwell on that, in order to keep Pud from getting his heads in an uproar again. "Can you get into their thoughts?" he inquired. "I haven't tried. I don't think I could keep my potential down to their level." "Wonder where they're from." "Who cares?" Pud snorted. "I just wish they'd go away." Gop noted, though, that Pud's heads were lowering closer over the creatures. "They're nowhere near acceptable Contact level, are they?" Grop said, after a moment. "From their appearance, I'd say they're even beneath classification. Reaction motor in their ship. Primitive weapons. Protective garments... they can't even adjust physically to hostile environments!" A minute passed. Pud said, "Mm. Well. I think I will see what I can read... just to have something to talk about at the Scientists' Club." He sent out a tentative probe .  . a little one... just enough to register in one of his brains the total conscious content of one of the little creature's minds. He was afraid to go deeper, after the subconscious, though actually that was far more important. But deep probing would probably be felt for what it was, while conscious probing was just a little painful. The creature popped erect in its squatting position, and clapped its upper extremities to its head. The other one, which had been scrambling up the ladder to the ship's airlock, drew its popgun and joined the first. "They're from someplace called Earth," Pud said. "In the V-LM#Xva Sector of this Galaxy, as nearly as I can make out. They're an Exploration Team, sent out by their planet to gather data on the nature of the physical universe." He paused to consult the third memory bank of his fifth brain, where he had impressed the content of the creature's mind. "They've had space travel for about two hundred of their years. I translate that as about eleven of ours." He consulted again. "Highly materialistic. Externally focused. Very limited sensorium. An infant race, chasing everything that moves, round and round through their little threedimensional universe. They've a long way to go." "What are they doing here?" "Hm." Pud consulted again. "A routine exploration flight brought them to this system... and an almost unbelievable coincidence has served to delay them here. They dropped their meteor-screens for just a moment -- at just the wrong moment. A large meteor came along, entered the ship, and destroyed both their atmospheremanufacturing equipment and the large pressure tank of atmosphere which they kept as reserve in case the equipment should fail." He paused. "Mixture of hydrogen and oxygen... they can't live without it. At any rate, the ship was evacuated, and they barely had time to get into the... mm, spacesuits, they call them... which they now wear. The accident left them with no atmosphere whatever, except the small amount in the tanks of those suits. That will be exhausted in a short time... I gather diat if this planet hadn't been here, they'd have been goners. As it stands, they plan to charge their spare suittanks, which weren't harmed, with the air of this planet, and then return to their Earth, subsisting on the tanked air, by hyperspatial drive " Again Pud paused. "Hm. Well, now! I'd overlooked that. So they have hyperspatial drive, at least... and after only two hundred years of space travel! Hm. Perhaps they are worth a closer look..." Pud lowered his heads over the two little aliens, who were moving warily, popguns drawn, away from the ship. "Pu#" Gop said nervously. "What?" "One of them is crawling toward the time-warp." "Well, don't tell me about it... lift the warp out of the way!" Gop extended a tentacle, first reconstituting it on the seventh atomic sublevel so he wouldn't get it blown off, and gently picked up the time-warp. It looked like a blueviolet frozen haze in his grasp. He set it down on the other side of the spaceship, anchoring it again to now so it wouldn't go flapping off along the time-continuum. "So they didn't land because they saw flashes from our experiments," he said a little triumphantly. One of Pud's heads turned and gave the Junior Scientist an acid look, while the others continued to observe the aliens. "They lowered their meteorscreens," he said nastily, "thus bringing about this entire bother, because they wanted to get a better look at the flashes." Gap was silent, but he thought acidly: "That's what you say -- you won't let me esprobe, and when you do, you manage to prove it's all my fault." said to Helen, "I want to chip a few samples off that outcropping over there... come on, hon." He started toward the ridge of gray-black rock. Helen followed on his heels. "As-pir-in," she said, deliberately falsetto, and her helmet-valet fed her another pill with a sip of water. "Then we'll go back and stick inside the ship until the tanks are charged," Johnny went on, a little grimly. "I think we're just edgy. Planets don't give people headaches... and there's nothing alive withHe hefted his blaster, which he had adjusted to Wide-Field. "But just in case... "ud," Gop said, still more nervously. "Yes, I see, you idiot! Lift the tharned out of their way... I'll take care of the space-warp generator!" The giant Vegans, for all their bulk, moved soundlessly and at great speed until they were between the aliens and the stone outcropping toward which they appeared to be heading. Gop extended a tentacle, curled it at an odd angle, and picked up the shimmering tharnfield,which was the Vegans' reservoir of Basic Universal Energy. Set in any energy matrix, tharn became that energy; added to any existing energy, thorn augmented it to any desired potential. Thus it was extremely valuable to their experiments... and very risky stuff to handle, as well. Gingerly, Gop set the thorn down beyond the outcropping. At Ac same time he picked up several instruments that lay nearby -- an electron-wrench, a snurling-iron, a plotz-meter, several pencil-rays. He placed them on the ground beside the thorn. Pud had curled twelve tentacles around the space-warp generator -- it was as big as a city block, and heavy, even in light gravity. He puffed a thought at Gop: "Give me a tentacle." Gop helped his Master place the generator safely on the other side of the ridge. Johnny Gorman banged off a handful of rock, and shoved it into the vac-container at his belt. "Okay, hon," he said. "Let's go." They stood one more moment atop the ridge, looking out over the barren, rusty-gray plain that the ridge had until now concealed from their gaze. "Looks just as dead as the rest," Johnny observed. "I guess we were just jumpy over nothing." He turned to start down the slope. "Come on." In Aree long light-gravity steps he had reached the bottom, and turned to steady Helen. She wasn't there. She had tripped and tumbled off the other side of the ridge. He could hear her screaming. Putrefied proteins!" Pud roared. "Help me get it out of the thornP The two Vegans leaned over the ridge. While Gop forced the writhing folds of the tharn-fied apart wiA two reconstituted tentacles, Pud reached in, plucked the little alien out and set it upright. It immediately scrabbled up the side of the ridge as fast as it could and joined its mate, which had bounded up the other side. "Now look at what you've done!" Pud raged. "What about the rules on Contact! The Examiners will get this out of us when we report on our Projects... mountains of bites, we've revealed ourselves!" "Not really, Master," Gop said, rushing his thoughts. "All the creature will know is that it tumbled into the field, and then was somehow ejected by it... a trick of gravity, perhaps... a magnetic vortex... it won't know what really happened -- "That -- field -- was -- supposed -- to -- be -- turned -- Pud said, every one of his faces green with rage. ftj j "You are a stupid, clumsy, fewheaded piece of provender!" Gop flushed clear down to his tails. "I'm sorry," he said. "I can't think of everything at once! I must have accidentally activated the tham when I moved it. I'm sorryF Pud clapped a tentacle to his prime forehead. "What next!" he moaned. "Oh, Johnny, Johnny," Helen sobbed. "I tripped when I started to turn around, and fell down the other side, and all of a sudden... it was horrible... I thought I was going crazy -- Johnny Gorman had his arms tight around her. Behind her back, his blaster was pointed straight down the far slope of the ridge, ready to atomize anything that moved. "What, honey?" he said. "What happened? I didn't see anything near you... what happened?" "It was like I was in a hurricane... I couldn't see anything, but something seemed to be whirling around me, something as big as the universe... and it seemed to be whirling inside me too! I felt -- it felt like... Johnny, I was crossed! "Crossed?" He shook her gently. "What do you mean, you were crossed?" "It felt like my right side was my left side, and my heart was beating backwards, and my eyes were looking at each other, and I was just twisted all downside up outside and inside out upside, and... Johnny," she wailed, "I am going crazy!" "Oh, no, you're not," he said grimly. "You're going back to the ship! I don't know what gives with this creepy clod, but I know we're not moving an inch outside the ship until we blast off! Come onV "They're crawling back toward their ship. Pud... look out, they're heading for the dimensional-warp!" Pud extended a tentacle ninety feet and slapped the dimensionalwarp out of the path of the scurrying creatures. The warp bounced silently on the rocky ground, caromed like a fireball from boulder to boulder, encountered stray radiation from the fiflrn-field that still glowed invisibly on the other side of the ridge, and became activated; it emitted concentric spheres of nameless-colored energy, and a vast snapping and crackling. 'There" Gop thought triumphantly at Pud. "That's just what I did with the tham-field... I guess nobody is above accidents, eh?" Pud thought pure vitamins at his Junior Scientist. "You idiot, I didn't accidentally turn on the warp! You left the tharn on, and it triggered the warp! Why didnt you deac tivate the tharn?" "Why didn't you? Gop shot back. "You were there too!" Pud lashed a tentacle over the outcropping, and the Aarnfield became inactive. Then he looked around, and every eye in his prime head popped. "Look out, the dimensional-warp is spreading... it's lost its cohesion... oh, digestion they're in that now!" Johnny and Helen Gorman were in a universe of blazing stars and nebulae that whirled like cosmic carousels; of gas clouds that seethed in giant turbulence... it was the universe of creation, or a universe in its death-throes... Johnny..." Helen..." The boiling universe exploded away from them in soundless radiation, in all directions... in five directions, their subconscious minds told them... it vanished into nothingness, a nothingness that surrounded them like white blindness, and then suddenly it was restored again, roiling, churning, flashing with the bright eyes of novae, shot with the sinuous streamers of rushing gas clouds, pulsing with the heartbeats of winking variables ,  . laboratory And suddenly they were tumbling head over heels along the rocky ground of the little planetoid again. Johnny... Helen... "At least we got them out of that Pud puffed. "The sub-temporal field, Gop... help me lift it... hurry!" "Master, all our experiments are activated! The tharn radiated enough to activate everything! Help me lift the sub-temporal field! "Master, it's too late... they're in it!" was the vast sweep of All Time, like a rushing, glassy, upside-down river... they tumbled through a chaos where Time, twice in each beat of their hearts, bounced back and forth between creation and entropy, and took them with it... Time was a torrent beneath whose surface they were yanked back and forth from Beyond the End to Before the Beginning like guppies on a deepsea line; a torrent whose banks were dark eternity, and whose waters were the slippery substance of years... Johnny... Helen... Pud deactivated the sub-temporal field with a lash of a tentacle, and the two little aliens rolled from it; like dice from a cup, gasping and wailing. Immediately they started running again toward their ship, dodging between the faint flickers of red, blue, green, scarlet and nameless-colored light that marked the location of those experiments which, now activated and releasing their fantastic energies, defied even the invisibility fields that still surrounded them. The aliens brushed against another experimental field, and it second into a fifth-dimensional topological monstrosity that would take weeks to untangle -- if it didn't explode first, for it bulged dangerously at the seams. Pud hastily back-tentacled the field into an interdimensional-vortex, where, if it did explode, it would disrupt an uninhabited universe so far down on the scale of subspaces that nobody would get hurt. Then the Senior Scientist gathered ten tons of machinery in a tentacle and hoisted it while the creatures ran beneath. Gop was psychokineticarrying five energyfields toward the sidelines, with another dozen or so wrapped in his tentacles. Pud silently dumped his load of machinery and reached for something else in the creatures' path. But the creatures scurried erratically, stopping, dashing off in this direction, skidding to a halt as they saw something else to terrify them, and then dashing off in that direction just as the Vegans had dealt with an obstacle to their progress in this direction. "Pud!... one of them fell through the intraspatial-doorway to the other side of the planet!" "Well, for the love of swallowing, reach through and get it! If those beasts see it, they'll tear it to pieces!" thing that was a cross between a tomcat and an eggplant on stilts. It looked hungry. It bounded toward her in forty foot lopes. "Johnny... Johnny, where are you , . Helen fainted. Several other garage-sized beasts converged on her, all looking as hungry as the first. In reality, they weren't hungry -- their food consisted of stone, primarily, while they also drew sustenance from cosmic radiation. But they liked to tear things to pieces. They were native to the planetoid; the Vegan Scientists had gathered them up and shoved them through the intraspatial-doorway to this side of the planet, where they wouldn't be imderfoot all the time. It was a oneway doorway, through which Pud or Gop would occasionally reach to pluck one of the beasts back for use in experimentation. Now, just as the beasts reached Helen Gorman, one of Gop's tentacles came through the doorway, followed by one of his smaller heads. The Junior Scientist picked up Helen, and hastily extruded another tentacle from the first to bat aside one of the beasts that leaped after her. The part of the tentacle bearing Helen Gorman swished back through the doorway. The head and die rest of the tentacle followed. The beasts commenced fighting among themselves, which was what they did most of the time anyway. Gk)p, however, in his haste, had forgotten to repolarize the molecules of his body while retreating through the doorway... and the moment he cleared the doorway on the other side of the planet, the doorway reversed -- still one-way, but now the other way. And eventually one of the beasts, attracted by all the flickering and flashing and frantic scrabbling visible through the doorway, abandoned the fun of the fight and leaped, like a ten-ton gopher, through the opening. The others followed, naturally. They always chased and tore apart the first one to cut and run. Gop had just set Helen Gorman on the ground, and Johnny Gorman, seeing her apparently materialize from thin air and float downward, had just started to stagger toward her, when the ten-ton gopher began to vivisect one of Pud's tails. The animal hadn't seen the tail, of course -- it was invisible. But it had stumbled over it, and been intrigued. Pud leaped ninety feet into the air, roaring. Roaring out loud, not thought-roaring. And roaring with a dozen gigantic throats. The sound thundered and rolled and crashed and echoed from the low hills around. The beast fell off Pud's tail, bounced, looked around, and made for Johnny Gorman as the only visible moving object. Johnny's eyes were still bugging from the gargantuan roar he had just heard. He saw the beast and dodged frantically, just as Gop's invisible tentacle shot out to bowl the beast over. In dodging, Johnny tumbled into another energy-field... He stood on his own face, saw before his eyes the hairy mole on the back of his neck, and threw a gray-and-red insideout hand before his eyes in complete terror. Then Pud nudged him gently out of the field, and before Johnny's eyes, in an instantaneous and unfathomable convolution, the hand became normal again. About that time the rest of the beasts emerged from the intraspatial-doorway. While some of them continued the fight that had begun on the other side of the planet, others started for Johnny Gorman and for Helen, who was now sitting up weakly and shaking her head. A beast resembling a steam-shovel on spider's legs rammed full-tilt into a force-field. The field bounced fifty feet and merged with another field in silent but cataclysmic embrace, producing a sub-field which converted one tenth of one percent of all water within a hundred foot radius to alcohol. The effect on Johnny and Helen was instantaneous... they became drunk as hoot-owls. Their eyes bleared and refused to focus. Their jaws sagged. Johnny stumbled, and sat down hard. He and Helen stared dolefully at each other through their faceplates. Pud gave up every last hope of avoiding Contact. He picked up Johnny with one tentacle and Helen with another and set them down on top of their spaceship, where there was just enough reasonably flat surface on the ship's snub nose to hold them. The beasts were chasing one another around and around through the wreckage of the laboratory. They romped and trampled over delicate machines, sent heavier equipment spinning to smash against boulders; they ran head-on into sizzling energy-fields and, headoff, kept running. Pud grabbed up an armful of beasts, raced to the doorway, reversed it and poured them through. He grabbed up more beasts, threw them after. Gop was busily engaged in the same task. Some of the beasts began fighting among themselves even as the Vegans held them -- Crop jumped as one tore six cubic yards of flesh from a tentacle. He healed the tentacle immediately, then hardened it and all his other tentacles to the consistency of pig iron. He held back that particular beast from the lot. When the others had been tossed through, he hauled back his tentacle, wound up, and pegged the offending beast with all his might. It streaked through the doorway like a projectile, legs and eyestalks rigid. Pud plucked a machine from the two-foot claws of the very last beast, and tossed the beast through. Then he examined the machine -- it was beyond repair. He slammed that through the doorway too. In ten seconds, the two Vegan Scientists had slapped and mauled all their rioting experiments into inaction. Silence descended over the battleground. Silence, more nerve-shattering than the noise had been. remains of the laboratory, every face forest-green with rage. Machines lay broken, tilted, flickering, whining, wheezing, like the bodies of the wounded. Delicate instruments were smashed to bits. The involuted field that Pud had flung through the vortex had evidently burst, as he had feared -- for the vortex had vanished. So, probably, had the universe the field had burst in. The two fields that had interlocked were ruined, each having contaminated the other beyond use. Other energy-fields, having absorbed an excess of energy from the tharn, were bloated monstrosities or bumed-out husks. It would take weeks to get the place straightened up... even longer to replace the smashed equipment and restore the ruined fields. Many experiments in which time had been a factor would take months -- and in some cases years -- to duplicate. All that was bad enough. But worst of all... the little aliens had been Contacted. Like it or not, the aliens knew that something was very much up on this planetoid. Like it or not, they'd report that, and more of their kind would come scurrying back to investigate. Pud groaned, and studied the little creatures, who sat huddled together on the nose of the ship. "Well," he thought sourly to Gop, "here we are." "I -- yes. Master." "Do you think that from now on you'll watch the Detector?" "Oh, yes, Master -- I will." "And do you think it matters a Chew now if you do or not? Now that we've revealed ourselves?" "I -- I -- " "We have a choice," Pud said acidly. "We can destroy these little aliens, so they can't report what they've seen. That's out, of course. Or we can move our laboratory to another system... a formidable job, and Food knows whether we'd ever find another planet so suited to our needs. And even if we did do that, and they found nothing when they returned here, they'd still know we were around somewhere." "They wouldn't know that weWe around, Master." "They'd know something is around... don't mince words with me, you idiot. You know that they've seen enough to draw the very conclusions we don't want them to draw. You know how vital it is that no race under Contactlevel status know of the existence of other intelligent races... particularly races far in advance of it. Such knowledge can alter the entire course of their development." "Yes, Master." "So what are we to do, eh? Here we are. And there -- " Pud motioned with a tentacle at the little aliens -- "they are. As you can see, we must reveal ourselves to still a greater extent... they can't even get into their ship to leave the planet without our help!" Gop was silent. "Also -- " Pud sent a brief extrasensory probe at the aliens, and both of them clutched at their helmeted heads -- "their problem of air supply is critical. There is very little left in their suit-tanks, and the time required for their machines to refine air from this planet's atmosphere has been wasted in -- in -- the entertainment so recently concluded. At this moment they are resigned to death. Naturally, we must help them." He paused. "Well, Nincompoop? Any ideas on how we can help them, and still keep our Scientists' status when the Examiners get the story of this mess out of us?" "Yes, Master." "I thought not." Pud continued his frowning scrutiny of the aliens for a moment. Then he looked up, his faces blank. "Eh? You do?" "Yes, Master." "Well, great gobs of gulosity, whatr "Master, do you recall the time experiment that you wanted to try a few years ago? Do you recall that the idea appealed to you very much, but that you wanted an intelligent subject for it, so we could determine results by observing rational reactions?" "I recall it, all right. My brave young Junior Scientist declined to be the subject... though Food knows you're hardly intelligent enough to qualify anyway. Yes, I remember... but what's that got to do with -- " Pud paused. The jaws of his secondary heads, which were more given to emotion, dropped. Then slowly his faces brightened, and his many eyes began to glow. "Ah," he thought softly. "You see, Master?" "I do indeed." "If it works, we'll have no more problem. The Examiners will be pleased at our ingenuity. The aliens will no longer -- " "I see, I see... all right, let's try it!" Pud reached down and picked one of the aliens off the nose of the ship. It slumped in his grasp immediately. The other alien began firing its popgun frantically at the seemingly empty air through which its mate mysteriously rose. The thermonuclear bolts tickled Pud's hide. He sighed and relaxed his personal invisibility field and became visible. That didn't matter now. The alien stared upward. Its face whitened. It dropped its popgun and fell over backward, slid gently off the ship's nose and started a slow light-gravity fall toward the ground. Pud caught it, and said, "I thought that might happen. Evidently they lose consciousness radier easily at unaccustomed sights. A provincial trait." He slid the aliens gently into the airlock of their ship. The Vegans waited for the aliens to regain consciousness. Eventually one did. Immediately, it dragged the other back from the lock, into the body of the ship. A moment later the lock closed. "Now hold the ship," Pud told Gop, "while I form the field." Flame flickered from the ship's lower end. It rose a few inches off the ground. Gkp placed a tentacle on its nose and forced it down again. He waited, while the ship throbbed and wobbled beneath the tentacle. Now, for the first time, Gop himself esprobed the aliens. He sent a gentle probe into one of their minds -- and blinked at the turmoil of terror and helplessness he found there. Faced with death at the hands of "giant monsters," the aliens preferred to take off and "die cleanly" in space from asphyxiation, or even by a mutual self-destruction pact that would provide less discomfort. Gop withdrew his probe, wondering that any intelligent creature could become sufficiently panicky to overlook the fact that if the "monsters" had wanted to kill them, they would be a dozen times dead already. Pud had shaped a time-field of the type necessary to do the job. It was a pale-green haze in his tentacles. He released die field and, under his direction, it leaped to surround the spaceship, clinging to it like a soft cloak. As the Vegans watched, it seemed to melt into the metal and become a part of it -- the whole ship glowed a soft, luminescent green. "Let it go," Pud said. Gop removed his tentacle. The ship rose on its flicker of flame -- rose past the Vegans' enormous legs and tails, past their gigantic be-tentacled bodies, past their many necks and faces, rose over their heads. Gop sneezed as the flame brushed a face. And Pud began shaping a psychokinetic bolt in his prime brain. For this purpose he marshaled the resources of all his other brains as well, and every head except his prime one assumed an idiot stare. He said, "Now!" and loosed the bolt as a tight-beam, aimed at the ship and invested with ninety-two separate and carefully calculated phase-motions. The ship froze, fifty miles over their heads. The flicker from its rocket tubes became a steady, motionless glow. Pud said, "Now," again, and altered a number of the phase-motions once, twice, three times, in an intricate pattern. The ship vanished. As one, the many heads of the Vegan Scientists turned to stare at the point in the sky where they had first sighted the ship. There it was, coasting past the laboratory-planet, tubes lifeless; coasting on the velocity that had brought it from the last star it had visited. There it was, just as it had been before the tiny aliens had sighted the flickerings that had caused them to relax their meteor-screens. There it was, sent back in time to before all the day's frantic happenings had happened. Pud and Gop esprobed the distant aliens... and then looked at each other in complete satisfaction. "Fine!" Pud said. "They don't remember a thing... not a single alimentary thing!" He looked around them, at the shambles of the laboratory. "It's a pity the experiment couldn't repair all this as well... is everything turned off?" "Evervthing, Master." "No experiments operating, you nincompoop? No flashes?" "None, Master." "Then they should have no reason to land, you idiot. "You know," Pud said, "in a way it was rather a fortunate thing that they landed. It enabled me to perform a very interesting experiment. We have demonstrated that a creature returned through time along the third ud-subcontinuum will not retain memory of the process, or of what transpired between a particular point in time and one's circular return to it. I'm glad you stimulated me to think of it. Best idea I ever had." Pud turned his attention to the ruins of the laboratory. He moved off, half his heads agonizing over the destruction caused by today's encounter, the other half glowing at its satisfactory conclusion. Gop sighed, and esprobed the little aliens for the last time... a final check, to make certain that they remembered nothing. "Johnny, how about that little planet down there... to the left? "Lefs drop the meteor-screens for a better look. Hastily, Gop reached out and tapped the meteor aside. "Heck, that planet looks lifce a dud, all right... but its two days to the next one... and Ive got a terrific headache! "Funny... lve got one too. "Well, what say we land and stretch our --  By that time Gop had hastily withdrawn his headache-causing probe. He stared anxiously upward. After a moment, he said, "They're landing. Master."    The execution violated the banc laws of Tharnar. But the danger was too great -- The Terrans couldn't be permitted to live under any circumstances... ecutive of Tharnar, signed the paper and dropped it in to the outgoing slot of the message dispatch tube. It was an act Qiat would terminate one hundred and eighty days of studying the tapes and records on the Terran ship and would set the final hearing of the Terran man and woman for that day. And, since the Terrans were guilty, their execution would take place before the sun rose again on Tharnar. He went to the wide windows which had automatically opened with the coming of the day's warmth and looked out across the City. The City had a name, to be found in the books and tapes of history, but for fifty thousand years it had been known as the City. It was the city of all cities, the center and soul of Tharnarian civilization. It was a city of architectural beauty, of flowered gardens and landscaped parks, a city of five hundred centuries of learning, a city of eternal peace. The gentle summer breeze brought the sweet scent of the flowering lana trees through the window Illustrated by Paul Orhan and the familiar sound of the City as it went about its day's routine; a sound soft and unhurried, like a slow whisper. Peace for fifty thousand years; peace and the unhurried quiet. It would always be so for the City. The Supreme Executives of the past had been chosen for their ability to insure the safety of the City and so had he. He turned away from the window and back to his desk, to brush his hand across the gleaming metal top of it. No faintest scratch marred the eternalloy surface, although the desk had been there for more than thirty thousand years. It was permanent and never-changing, like the robot-operated fleet that guarded Tharnar, like the white and massive Executive Building, like the way of life on Tharnar. The Terrans would have to die, lest the peace and the way of life on Tharnar be destroyed. They were of a young race; a race so young that his desk had already been in place for fifteen thousand years wheil they began emerging from their caves. They were a dangerously immature race; it had been only three hundred years since their last war with themselves. Three hundred years -- three normal Tharanian lifetimes. And the Tharanians had not know war for six hundred lifetimes. A race so yoimg could not possess a civilized culture. The Terrans were -- he searched for a suitable description -- barbarians in spaceships. They lacked the refinement and wisdom of the Thamarians; they were a dangerous and unpredictable race. It could be seen in their history; could be seen in the way the two Terrans had reacted to their capture. He pressed one of the many buttons along the edge of his desk and a three-dimensional projection appeared; the scene that had taken place one hundred and eighty days before when the Terrans were brought to Thamar. The ship of the Terrans stood bright silver in the sunlight, slim and graceful against the bulk of the Executive Building behind it. The Terrans descended the boarding ramp, the left wrist of the man chained to the right wrist of the girl. Two armed robots walked behind them, their faces metallically impassive, and four armed Thamarian guards waited at the bottom of the ramp to help take the Terrans to their place of imprisonment. The Terrans approached the guards with a watchfulness that reminded him of the old films of the coast wolves that had once lived on Vendal. They did not walk with the studied, practiced, leisure of the Thamarians but as though they held some unknown vitality barely in check. The face of the man was lean and hard, the black eyes inscrutable as flint. The girl looked at the guards with a bold nonchalance, as though they were really not formidable at all. Somehow, by contrast with the Terrans, the guards appeared to be not grimly vigilant but only colorless. There seemed to be a menace in the way the man watched the guards; there was the impression that he would overpower them and sieze their weapons if given a shadow of a chance. And the girl -- what would she do, then? Would she flash in beside him to help him, as the female coast wolves always helped their mates? He switched off the projection, feeling a little repugnance at the thought of executing the Terrans. They were living, sentient beings, and intelligent, for all their lack of civilization. It would have been better if they had been of some repulsive and alien physical form, such as bloated, many-legged giant insects. But they were not at all repulsive; they were exactly like the Thanarians. Exactly? He shook his head. Not exactly. The similarity was only to the eye -- and not even to the eye when one looked closely, as he had looked at the images. There was a potential violence about them, lurking close beneath their deceptively Tharnarian physical appearance. The Teirans were not like the Tharnarians. There was a difference of fifty thousand years between them; the difference between savage barbarianism and a great and peaceful civilization. He looked again across the City, listening to its softly murmuring voice. In hundreds of centuries the City had known no strife or violence. But what if the barbarians should come, not two of them, but thousands? What would they do? He was sure he knew what they would do to the gentle, peaceful City and the faint twinge of remorse at the thought of executing the Terran man and girl paled into insignificance. Under no circumstance could they be permitted to live and tell the others of Tharnar and the City. tion a little in the wide seat and the chain that linked his wrist with Virginia's rattled metallically; sounding unduly loud in the quiet of the room. Virginia's black hair brushed his cheek as she turned her face up to him, to ask in a whisper so low it could not be heard by the four guards who stood beside and behind them: "It's almost over, isn't it?" He nodded and she turned her attention back to the five judges seated at the row of five desks before them. The gray-haired one at the center desk. Bob knew, was the one in charge of the proceedings and his name was Vor-Dergal. He had gained the knowledge by watching and listening and it was the only information he had acquired. He did not know the names of the otjier four judges, nor even for sure that they were judges and that it was a trial. There had been no introductions by the Tharnarians, no volunteering of information. Vor-Dergal spoke to them : "In brief, the facts are these: You claim that your mission was of a scientific nature, that the two of you were sent from Earth to try to reach the center of the galaxy where you hoped to find data concerning the creation of the galaxy. Your ship carried only the two of you and is one of several such ships sent out on such missions. Since the voyages of these small exploration ships were expected to require an indefinite number of years and since the occupants would have to endure each other's company for those years, your government thought it more feasable to let the crew of each ship consist of a man and a woman, rather than two men." He saw Virginia's cheek quiver at the words, but she managed to restrain the smile. "Our system was reached in your journey," Vor-Dergal continued, "and you swung aside to investigate our sister planet, Vendal. You were met by a guard ship before reaching Vendal and it fired upon you. Instead of turning back, you destroyed it with a tight-beam adaptation of your meteor disintegrator." Vor-Dergal waited questioningly and Bob said : "Our instruments showed us that the guard ship was robot-operated. They could discern nothing organic in the ship, nothing alive. The same instruments showed us that this planet, Vendal, possessed operating mines and factories and no organic life other than small animals. We knew that machines neither voluntarily build factories nor reproduce other machines, yet the mines and factories were operating. We thought it might be a world where the inhabitants had all died for some reason and the robots were still following the production orders given them when the race lived." "And so you wilfully destroyed the guard ship that would have turned you back?" "We did. It was a machine, operated by machines. And so far as we knew, it was protecting a race that had died a thousand years before. It was all a mystery and we wanted to find the answer to it." Vor-Dergal and the others accepted the explanation without change of expression. Vor-Dergal resumed : "Three more guard ships appeared when you were near Vendal. In the battle that followed, you severely damaged one of them. And when your ship was finally caught in the guard cruiser's tractor beams, you resisted the robots. When they boarded your ship, you destroyed several of them and were subdued only when the compartments of your ship were flooded with a disabling gas." "That's true," Bob said. "In summary: You deliberately invaded Thamarian territory, deliberately damaged and destroyed Thamarian ships, and would have landed on Vendal had the guard ships not prevented it. "Your guilt is both evident and admitted. Are there any extenuating circumstances that have not been presented at this hearing?" "No," Bob said. None had been presented all day for the good reason that there was not a single factor of the circumstances that the Thamarians would consider extenuating. "Your guilt was evident from the beginning," Vor-Dergal said. "We have spent the past one hundred and eighty days in studying the books and tapes in your ship. What we learned of your history and your form of civilization leaves us no alternative in the sentence we must pass upon you." The chain clinked faintly as Virginia lifted her hand to lay it on his arm and she gave him a quick glance that said, "'Here it comes! Vor-Dergal pronounced sentence upon them : "Tomorrow morning, at thirtythree twelve time, you will both be put to death by a robot firing squad." Virginia's breath stopped for a moment and her hand gripped his arm with sudden pressure but she gave no other indication of emotion and her eyes did not waver from Vor-Dergal's face. Vor-Dergal looked past her to the guards. "Return them to their cell." The guards produced another chain, to link their free arms together behind their backs, and they were marched across the room and out the door. Outside, the sun was setting, already invisible behind a low-lying cloud. Bob calculated the designated time of their execution in relation to the Terran time as given by his watch and found that thirtythree twelve would be about halfway between daylight and sunrise. Tal-Karanth stood by the open windows and watched the guards return the Terrans to their cell. Extra guards, both robot and Tharnarian, had been posted inside and outside the prison building for the night to prevent any possibility of an escape. Other robots stood guard around the Terran ship, although it was inconceivable that the Terrans could ever overpower the prison guards and reach their ship. But it had been inconceivable that a ship as small as the Terran ship could ever destroy a Thamarian guard cruiser. The tight-beam adaptation circuit of the meteor disintegrators was very ingenious. Why had the Thamarian cruisers not had the same weapon? They possessed the same general type of meteor disintegrators; the same adaptation circuit would transform a Thamarian cruiser's meteor disintegrators into terrible weapons. Why had no one ever thought of doing such a thing? Why had it been taken for granted for fifty thousand years that the cmiser's blasters were the ultimate in weapons? What other weapons did the Terrans on Earth possess? How invincible would their cruisers be if a small exploration ship could destroy a Thamarian cruiser? The captive Terrans could not be permitted to return to Earth and tell the others of Thamar. Neither could they be permitted to live out their lives in prison on Thamar. Someday, somehow, they might escape and return to Earth, or send a message to Earth. The robot fleet of Thamar could never withstand an attack by a Terran fleet; the fate of Thamar and the quiet and gentle City would be written in blood and dust and ashes. There was the sound of rubberpadded metal feet in the distance and he saw six more robots marching out to add their numbers to the robots already guarding the Terran ship. The ship, itself, was not far from the Executive Building; close enough that his eyes, still sharp despite his seventy years, could make out the name on it: The Cat, The Cat, And a cat was -- he recalled the definition to be foimd among the Terran books -- any of various species of carnivorous and predatory animals, noted for their stealth and quickness, and their ferocity when angered, T he robot shoved the plastic food tray under the cell door and went back down the corridor. Virginia turned away from the single window, where The Cat could be seen as a silhouette merging into the darkness. "Last supper. Bob," she said. "Let's eat, drink, and be merry." He went to the door to get the tray and noticed the three robots and two Thamarian guards down the left hand stretch of corridor and the same number down the right. Virginia came up beside and said, "They're not taking any chances we won't be here in the morning, are they?" "No," he said, picking up the tray. "None to speak of.' He carried the tray to the little table in the center of the room and Virginia seated herself across from him as she had done each meal for the past six months. But she toyed with the plastic spoon and did not begin to eat at once.  "I wonder why they made it a firing squad? she asked. "You'd think they would have used something ultra-civilized and refined, such as some painless and flowerscented gas." "Spies were executed with firing squads during the last Terran war, three hundred years ago," he said. He smiled thinly. "I suppose they consider us spies and want us to feel at home in the morning." "I'm glad they do. I don't want it to be shut up in a room -- I would rather be out under the open sky." She poked at the rim of her tray again. "They never did tell us why. Bob. They didn't tell us anything, only that they had no alternative. We didn't hurt any Tharnarians; we only destroyed one of their ships and some of their robots." "We upset their sense of security and showed them they're not secure at all. I suppose they're afraid of an attack from Earth." "They didn't tell us anything," she said again. "They act as though we were animals." "No " he said, "they don't seem to have a very high opinion of our low position on the social evolution scale." He began to eat in the manner of one who knows the body needs nourishment to take advantage of any opportunity for escape, even though the mind may be darkly certain that no such opportunity shall arise. "You ought to cat a little, Ginny," he said. She tried, and gave up after a few bites. "I guess I'm just not hungry -- not now," she said. She glanced at the darkened window where The Cat had become invisible. "How long until daylight again, Bob?" He looked at his watch. "Seven hours." "Seven hours?" A touch of wistfulness came into her voice. "I never noticed, before, how short the nights arc." The robot laid the material TalKaranth had requested on his desk, the records and tapes from the Terran ship, and withdrew. TalKaranth sighed wearily as he inserted the first tape in the projector, wondering again why he felt the vague dissatisfaction and wondering why he hoped to find an answer among the material from the Terran ship. It would be an all night task -- and he could hardly expect to find more than he already knew. Tharnar was not safe and secure from discovery by Terrans in the years to come and faith in the robot fleet had been an illusion. Before setting the projector in operation he put through a call to his daughter. Thralna's image appeared before him, reclining on a couch while two robots worked at caring for her finger nails. She raised up a little as his image appeared before her and the robots stepped back. "Yes, Father?" she asked. She waited for him to speak, her wide gray eyes on his image and her jet-black curls framing her young and delicately beautiful face. For a moment she reminded him of someone ; someone more mature and stronger -- With something of a shock he realized it was the Terran girl his daughter reminded him of ; that the Terran girl seemed the more mature of the two although Tharlna was twenty-eight and the Terran girl was twenty-one. They had the same gray eyes and black curls, the same curve to the jaw, the same chin and full lips... But the similarity was only incidental. There was a grace and a gentleness to Thralna's beauty; a grace and gentleness that was the result of Mty thousand years of civilization. Beneath the superficial beauty of the barbarian girl lay only an animal-like vitality and potential violence... "Yes, Father?" Tharlna asked again in her carefully modulated voice. "Are you going to the theatre tonight, Thralna?" "Yes. Tonight's play was written by D'ret-Thon and it's supposed to be almost as good as one of the classics. Why do you ask. Father?" "I called to tell you that I have to work late tonight. I may not be home until morning." "Couldn't you let a robot do it?" "No. I have to do it, myself." "Does it have to do with those two aliens?" "Yes." A little frown of worry appeared and as quickly disappeared. Her slim fingers touched her forehead for a moment, to smooth away any vestige of a wrinkle, then she said, 'Tt will be such a relief when they're finally disposed of. Whenever I think of how they might escape and get into the City, it frightens me. Are you sure they can't escape. Father?" "There is no possibility of their escaping," he said. "You go ahead with your plans for the evening. Will you come home when the show is over?" "Not for a while. Kin is taking me dancing, afterward." "Where you went last time -- the place where they were reviving the old dances?" "No. Nobody goes there anymore. Those old dances were rather fun but they were so -- so tiring. Our modern dances are much slower and more graceful, you know." "All right, Thralna," he said in dismissal. "Enjoy yourself." "Yes, Father."  She was reclining on the couch again, her eyes closed, when he switched off the image. He sat for a little while before turning on the tape projector, recalling his conversation with her and a feeling growing within him that he was almost on the verge of discovering still another menace to Thamar. ginia held her hands to her face to shade her eyes as she looked out the window. "What you can see of the city from here is all bright with lights," she said, "but there's no one on the streets. Only some robots. Everyone in the city must be in bed." "That's the way it's been every night," he said. "Early to bed and late to rise -- they're an odd race. I've wondered what they do to pass away the time. But what they're doing now is something you should be doing -- resting." She turned away from the window. "I'm not sleepy. I keep thinking of The Cat out there waiting for us and how we might get to it if we could only get hold of a blaster." "Which we can't try to do until they come for us in the morning. Some rest now might mean a lot then." "All right, Bob." She went to him and sat beside him on his cot. "What is it now -- how much more time?" "About three hours." She leaned her head against him and he put his arm around her. "I guess I am a little tired," she said. "But don't let me go to sleep." "All right, Ginny." "It's only three hours and never any more, if we aren't lucky in the morning. And if we aren't lucky, I don't want to have wasted our last three hours." the window again and watched the City as it slept in the pre-dawn darkness. How many slept in the City? Once there had been three found the population to be less. Five years before there had been less City was a beautiful shell that housed only the robots that cared for it. What was wrong? And why had it never occurred to him before that there was something wrong? He went back to his desk, where the material from the Terran ship littered the eternalloy top of it, and sat down again. He was tired, and frustrated. A menace faced Tharnar, and no one seemed to realize it. The coming of the barbarians had awakened him to the fallacy of trusting the robot fleet, but there was still another danger. And the robot fleet would be more helpless before the newly discovered danger than it would be before the Terran ships. He pressed a button and music filled the room; music that had always before been soothing and restful to hear. But it sounded flat and meaningless compared with the throbbing barbarian music he had heard that night and he switched it off again. What was wrong? It was one of the latest compositions; one that had been acclaimed as almost as good as one of the classics. Almost as good... Like the play Thralna had attended, like the art exhibits, the athletic records, the scientific discoveries, like everything in the City and on Thamar. Almost as good -- but never quite as good as they had been fifty thousand years before. Was that part of the answer? No -- not part of the answer. Part of the problem, part of the danger greater than a barbarian invasion. There was no answer that he could see. Something had been lost by the Thamarians fifty thousand years before and he was neither sure what it was nor how to give it back to them. He pressed the button that would connect him with Security Officer Ten-Quoth. Of the two problems, it was only within his power to handle the immediate phase of the first problem; to make the final authorization of the execution of the Terrans. Bob looked again at the window which had lightened to a pale gray square. It was already daylight outside; it would not be long until the guards came for them. Virginia had fallen asleep at last, more tired than she had thought, and she still slept with her head against his shoulder and with his arm around her to support her. He straightened his legs slowly, not wanting them to be numb from lack of circulation when the guards came and not wanting to awaken Virginia to grim reality any sooner than he had to. But the slight movement was enough. She opened her eyes drowsily, then the sleepiness gave way to the hard jolt of remembrance and realization. She looked at the gray window and asked, "How much longer?" "Within a few minutes." "I wish you hadn't let me sleep." "You were tired." "I didn't want to sleep -- I didn't think I would." Then she changed the subject, as though to keep it from going into the sentimental. "I see the robot never did come back for the tray. We'll be leaving a messy room, won't we? I wonder if they'll disinfect it to make sure it's clean when we're gone? You know" -- she smiled a little -- "fleas and things." She lifted her face to kiss him on the cheek, then she rose and moved to the window. "It's cloudy," she said. "There's a mist of rain falling and it's cloudy outside. I guess it's already later than we thought." He went over to stand beside her and saw that the morning was alight with near-sunrise behind the gray clouds. "It's out there waiting for us -- The Caty she said. He saw it, standing silver-white in the gray morning, gleaming in the rain and with its slim, dynamic lines making it look as though it might at any moment hurl itself roaring into the sky. "It's a beautiful ship," she said. "I wonder what they will do with it when they -- " A sound came from the far end of the corridor; a snapped command in Thamarian. The command was followed at once by the sound of footsteps approaching their cell ; the heavy tread of robots and the lighter, softer steps of the guards. Virginia turned away from the window and they faced the cell door as they waited. "This is it," she said. "Are you afraid, Ginny?" "Afraid?" She laughed up at him, a laugh that came only a little too quickly. "It's like a play, set a long time ago on Earth. Coffee and pistols at dawn. Only I don't think they're bringing us any coffee and if we get a pistol it will have to be one of theirs." "It isn't over with till the end -- and maybe we can change the ending of this play for them." "I'll be watching you, Bob, so I can help you the moment you make the try." The Tharnarian guards stopped outside the door, their blasters in their hands. One of them unlocked the door and two robots entered, guards locking the big door behind the robots the moment they were inside. The robots carried no blasters, nothing but three lengths of chain. The Tharnarian leader outside the door rasped a command : "You will both turn to face the window, with your hands behind you." Bob did not obey at once, but appraised the situation. The robots were massive things -- more than six hundred pounds in weight, their metal bodies invulnerable to any attack he could make with his bare hands. But there was one chance in ten thousand: if he could catch the first robot by surprise and send it toppling into the cell door, its weight might be enough to break the lock of the door. He struck it with his shoulder, all his weight and strength behind the attack, and Virginia's small body struck it a moment later. But it was like shoving against a stone wall. The robot rocked for the briefest instant, then it threw out a foot to regain its balance. The other robot snapped a chain around his wrists while Virginia fought it. "Don't, Ginny," he said, ceasing his own struggles. "It's no use, honey." She stopped, then, and the robot jerked her arms around behind her back, to lock the second chain around her wrists. She smiled up into his dark and sombre face. "We tried. Bob. They were just too big for us." A third chain, longer than the first two, was produced. He felt the cool metal of it encircle his neck and heard the lock snap shut. The other end of it was locked around Virginia's neck. The cell door was opened and the guard leader commanded, "Step forward. The robots will guide you." They stepped forward, the robots beside them, gripping their arms with steel fingers. The chain around their necks rattled from the movement of walking, linking them together like a pair of captive wild animals. Bob wondered if the chain had been solely as another precaution to prevent their escape or if it had been a deliberate act of contempt. The Tharnarians feared them and, because they feared them, they hated them. Did it bolster the morale of the Tharnarians to deliberately treat them as though they were animals? They stepped out into the cool dawn, into a small courtyard with a black stone wall at its farther side. The sky was bleakly gray and the rain was falling as a cold mist, dampening Virginia's face as she looked up at him. "The last mile. Bob." "Walk it straight and steady, Ginny. They're watching." "How else would we walk it? she asked calmly. They came to the wall, where a metal ring had been set in the stone. There was a chain fastened to the ring and when the robots had swung them around with their backs to the wall, the free end of the chain was locked to the center of the chain around their necks. Again, it could be an added precaution. Or it could be the final attempt to let their execution be ous animals. It did not really matter, of course... Two of the armed robots who had walked with the guards took up a position twenty feet in front of them, blasters in their metal hands. The robots who had chained them stepped to one side, away from the line of fire. The leader of the guards lifted his arm to look at his watch and said something to the robots. The robots lifted their blasters at the words and leveled them, one aimed at Virginia's heart and one at Bob's. But the expected blast did not come. The guard leader continued to observe his watch. Apparently the first command had meant only: "Aim." The "Fire" command would come when the hands of the watch reached the thirty-three twelve mark. Virginia's shoulder was warm against his arm. But her hand, when it found his behind their backs, was cold. "They cheated us," she said. "We were supposed to have a whole firing squad." The guard leader gave another command and there was a double click as the robots pressed the buttons that would ready their blasters for firing. Virginia swayed a little for the first time, a movement too small for the Tharnarians to see and one from which she recovered almost at once. "It's -- I'm all right," she said. "I'm not afraid. Bob." "Of course you're not, Ginny -- of course you're not." The guard leader had returned his attention to his watch and the seconds went by; long seconds in which the only sound was the almost inaudible whisper of the rain against the stone wall behind them. Virginia looked up at him for the last time, the cold mist wet on her face. "We've had a lot of fun together. Bob. We never expected it to end so soon, but we knew all the time that it might. We'll go together and that's the way we always wanted it to be, wherever and whenever it might happen." Then she faced forward again and they waited, the rain whispering on the wall behind them and forming in crystal drops on the chain around their necks. She did not waver again as she stood beside him and he knew she would not when the end came. The guard leader dropped his arm, as though he no longer needed to refer to his watch. He glanced at them very briefly then turned to the robots, his face revealing the command he was going to give. Virginia's hand tightened on his own in farewell and he could feel the pulse of her wrist racing hard and fast. But she stood very straight as she looked into the blaster and they heard the final command to their robot-executioners : 'Dorend thendar hirty-three one. Tal-Karanth looked again at the timepiece on the wall. Thirtythree one. At the end of eleven more small fractions of time, the Terrans would no longer exist. What was life? What was the purpose behind it all? In fifty thousand years the Tharnarians were no nearer the answer than their ancestors had been. Why should there be life at all? Why not the suns and planets, created by chance, and devoid of life? And why even of galaxies racing outward across time? Why the universe and why the life it contained? Why not just -- nothing? The barbarians had set out to find the answer within a hundred years after the building of their first interstellar ship. And Tharnar's interstellar ships had not been outside the system for fifty thousand years; no Tharnarian had been as far as Vendal for fifteen thousand years. Why had the Tharnarians lost their curiosity; the curiosity and desire to learn that had created the past glory of Tharnar? He thought again of what he had discovered that night ; of one of the reasons why the Terrans had named their ship The Cat. It was not because a cat was a dangerous animal, as he and the others had thought. It was because the mission of The Cat would be to explore in unknown territory, because of an old Terran proverb: Curiosity killed a cat. He did not yet understand the second reason behind the name, but the first reason showed that the Terrans were not without a sense of humor. How long had it been since he had heard a Tharnarian laugh at himself, at his own failings or possibility of failure? Never. Yet -- wasn't that pride? What was wrong with the high-headed pride that admitted no inferiority, no failure? Wasn't fifty thousand years of civilization something of which to be extremely proud? Thirty-three five. He went to the window and pressed the button that would open it against the mechanical will of the automatic health-guard equipment. It slid open and he breathed the cool, moist air that smelled of wet earth and grass and the odor of the lana tree flowers; flowers that were closed against the rain and would not open until the sun came out. The City was quiet in the gray of the morning. He could see one pedestrian and three moving vehicles in the entire visible portion of the City. The City, like the flowers of the lana trees, would not open into life until the storm was over and the sun was shining again. Thirty-three nine. The City, like the flowers of the lana trees. The beauty and perfection of them both was the result of fifty thousand years of breeding to bring about that perfection. The City, like the flowers of the lana trees... But flowers were without purpose; were only -- vegetation. And what was the purpose of the City? He did not know. He was the Supreme Executive of Thamar, and he did not know. Thirty-three ten. He went back to his desk and switched on the three-dimensional projection of the scene that would be taking place in the coiutyard behind the prison. The man and girl stood chained to the wall and the robots were waiting for the third and last command from the guard leader, the blasters in their hands as steady as though held in vises and their metal faces impassive. He increased the magnification of the scene, drawing the images of the man and girl closer to him. There was no reading the man's face, other than the hardness and lack of fear. But on the face of the girl was a defiance that seemed to shine like a radiance about her. He was reminded of the physical similarity between the barbarian girl and his daughter. But now the similarity had faded to a shadow. There was something vital and alive about the barbarian girl, there was a beauty to her in the way she waited for death that was strange and wild by Thamarian standards. What had Thralna said the night before? "... Whenever I think of how they might escape and get into the City, it frightens -- it frightens me -- What if it was Thralna who stood before the robots? Would she have her Thamarian pride as she looked into the black muzzle of the blaster and knew she had only a few more heart beats of life left? Would she stand with the bold defiance of the barbarian girl? Or would she drop to the ground and plead for her life? He knew the answer. But it was not Thralna's fault that she was as she was. She was only like all the others of Thamar. Thirty-three eleven. How diflFerent they were, the two barbarians and the men and women of Thamar. Yet the difference would cease to exist within a few moments. When the man and girl were dead, when all the life and restless drive were gone from them and they lay still on the cold, wet ground, they would look the same as Thamarians. How did it feel to die in the cold dawn, on an alien world a thousand lightyears from your own? But they had known such a thing might happen to them. They had named their ship The Cat because of that. Because of that, and something else... Suddenly, clearly, he understood the second reason for the name of their ship. Thirty-three twelve. The guard leader dropped his arm, to give the last command to the robots. Tal-Karanth's mind raced and he saw two things with vivid clarity: He saw the inexorable decline of Thamar and the City continuing down the centuries until the little spark that was left smouldered its last and was gone. And he saw the way death would obliterate the wild and savage beauty of the barbarian rl, knew that it would go when the life went from her, to leave her with a beauty that would be colorless by contrast, that would be like the beauty of a lana blossom -- or a Tharnarian woman. And he thought he could see the answer to the menace that faced Thamar and the City. Dorend --  The guard leader's first word of command came. Tal-Karanth's finger stabbed at one of the buttons along his desk. He shoved it down, to deactivate the robot-executioners, and they were frozen in immobility when the final word came:  -- thendarr He snapped the switch which connected him with the office of Security Officer Ten-Quoth and said: "Have the chains taken from the Terrans and see that they are given comfortable and unguarded quarters. Tell them they have been pardoned by the Supreme Executive and that they are free to leave Tharnar whenever they wish." day, bright and warm with a few fleecy white clouds drifting across the blue sky. Tal-Karanth stood before the window again, VorDergal beside him, and watched the City come to life ; slowly and leisurely, as it had come to life each midmoming for the past fifty thousand years. Vor-Dergal looked toward The Cat, where the boarding ramps had already been withdrawn and the airlocks closed. "They're ready to go," he said. "I hope you haven't made a mistake in what you did. The other Terrans will learn of us now, and when they come..." He let the sentence trail off, unfinished. "We have a great deal to gain by the coming of the Terrans," TalKaranth said, "and little to lose." "Little to lose?" Vor-Dergal asked. "We have Thamar and the City to lose; we have our lives and our civilization to lose." "Yes, our civilization," TalKaranth said. "Our god that we worshipped -- our civilization. Look, Vor -- listen to what I have to say: "I did some thinking the night the Terrans were waiting to be executed. I'm afraid it was probably one of the few times for thousands of years that a Tharnarian ever tried to critically examine the Tharnarian way of life. I started from the beginning, more than fifty thousand years ago, when the interstellar ships of Tharnar were actually interstellar and were manned by men instead of robots. "It was a good start we made in interstellar exploration, but it didn't last very long. We wanted to associate with our cultural peers, and there weren't any. We didn't attempt to make any contact with the primitive races we found. We felt that there would be no point in doing so. Thamar possessed the highest -- and the only -- civilization in all the explored regions of the galaxy and younger races had nothing to offer us. "The time came when no more exploration ships were sent out. We retired to Thamar and Vendal and surrounded them with a robotoperated fleet, to keep out the inferior races when they finally did learn how to build spaceships. We devoted ourselves to our social culture and became imbued with selfsatisfaction, with the assurance that we of Thamar possessed the full flowering of culture and progress. We withdrew into a shell of complacency and each generation lived out its life with comfortable, methodical, sameness. And our robot-operated fleet was on guard to prevent any other race from annoying us, from disturbing us in the wisdom and serenity of our way of life. "Fifteen thousand years ago, the last of us on Vendal returned to the more ideal world of Thamar. And there was plenty of room for them on Thamar by then. The population had been decreasing for thousands of years -- it's decreasing right now. Women don't want to have children anymore -- it's an inconvenience for them. They want comfort; the full stomach, the soft couch, the attention of their robots. And men are the same. "There is no longer any incentive for living on Thamar other than to duplicate the lives of our ancestors. There is nothing new, nothing to be done that has not already been done better. So we lapse into an existence of placid satisfaction with the status quo -- we vegetate. We're like plants that have been seeded in the same field for so many centuries that the fertility of the soil is exhausted. This barren field in which we grow is our own form of culture. "Do you sec what the ultimate end will have to be, Vor?" He had thought old Vor-Dergal would reply with a heated defense of Thamarian civilization, but he did not. Instead, he said, "If the present trend continues, there will come a time when there will be more robots in the guard ships than there will be Thamarians for them to guard. But is the other better, the destruction at the hands of the barbarians?" "Destmction? It's within their power to destroy us, but why should they? It will be unpleasant for many Thamarians to contemplate, but an unbiased study of the Terrans shows that they would not want the things we have on Thamar and in the City; that they would not consider Thamar and the City worth the trouble of conquest." "A conjecture," Vor-Dergal said. "And, even if you are right and the Terrans never come to destroy us -- what have we to gain by taking this risk?" "New life. We've been too long in the barren field of our own culture. We've lost our curiosity, our desire to learn, our sense of humor that would permit us to make honest self-evaluations, our pride and courage. And in losing these thinp, we lost our racial urge to survive. "Look at the City this morning, Vor. See how slowly it moves ; listen to how still it is for a city that conyou know what this day is for the City? It's one more act, to be added to all the thousands of acts in the past, in the City's rehearsal for extinction. "The Tcrrans have what we lost. They're a young race with a vitality that's like a fire where our own is like a dying spark. That's why I let those two go; why I want the others of their kind to know of Thamar and come here. It's not too late for us ; not yet too late for contact with these Terrans to give back to us all these things we lost." In the pause following his words the quiet of the City was suddenly shattered by the thunder of The Cat's drives. It lifted, shining and slender and graceful, and hurled itself up into the blue sky. TalKaranth watched it until it was a bright star, far away and going out into the universe beyond, until the sound of its drives had faded and gone. He looked away from the sky and back to the slowly moving, softly whispering City; the City that was dying and did not know it. He felt the stirring of an uneasiness within him; a strange non-physical desire for something. It was the first time in his life he had ever felt such a sensation; it was something so long gone from the Tharnarians that the Tharnarian word for it was obsolete and forgotten. But the Terran word for it was wanderlust. "I almost wish I could have gone with them, Vor," he said. "They're going to try to reach the heart of the galaxy and see if they can find the answer to Creation. And we on Thamar spend our lives sipping sweet drinks as we discuss trifles and wait for the sun to shine warm enough for us to emerge from our air-conditioned houses." "If you're right in thinking that Terrans won't come to plunder Thamar and the City," Vor-Dergal said, "then it would be interesting to know what those two find when they reach the center of the galaxy. If they don't get killed long before they reach it." "I think any hostile forms of life they encounter will find them hard to kill," Tal-Karanth said. "We paid a high price for their capture, remember? There were two Terran proverbs behind the name of their ship. It took me quite a while to understand the second one but when I did, I realized the true extent of Terran determination and self-confidence. "Their mission was to explore across the unknown regions of space. They knew it would be dangerous, very dangerous. So they named their ship 'The Cat' partly because of an old Terran proverb: 'Curiosity killed a cat.' But that was only half the reason behind the name. They intended to reach the center of the galaxy and they didn't intend to let anything stop them. So there was a second meaning behind the naming of their ship: " 'A cat has nine lives,' "    A few drops of science will often disinfect a whole barrel full of ignorance and prejudice. -- Hendrik Willem V an Loon Funny, the way a simple people regarded spacemen -- and Reston fully appreciated the irony... The European Project was a noble undertaking. It was the result of the efforts of a group of noble men who were acquainted with the tragic histories of countries like Czechoslovakia, Lithuania, Rumania, and Poland -- countries whose juxtaposition to an aggressive totalitarian nation had robbed them of the right to evolve naturally. The European Project Illustrated by Mel Hunter returned that right to them by giving them the stars, A distant planet was set aside for each downtrodden nation and spaceships blasted off for New Czechoslovakia New Lithuania New Rumania and New Polland, bearing land-hungry, Godfearing peasants. And this time the immigrants found still waters and green pastures awaiting them instead of the methane-ridden coal mines which their countrymen had found centuries ago in another promised land. There was only one mishap, in the entire operation: the spaceship carrying the colonists for New Poland never reached its designated destination... Earth Years (Galactic History Files) T he snow was failing softlv and through it Reston could see the yellow squares of light that were the windows of the community hall. He could hear the piano accordian picking up the strains of Moja Dziewczyna Myje Nogi, "My Girl is Washing Her Feet," he thought, unconsciously reverting to his halfforgotten native tongue ; washing them here on Now a Polska the way she washed them long ago on Earth, There was warmth in the thought, and Reston turned contentedly away from his study window and walked across the little room to the simple pleasures of his chair and his pipe. Soon, he knew, one of the children would come running across the snow and knock on his door, bearing the choicest viands of the wedding feast -- kielbasa perhaps, and golabki and pierogi and kiszki. And after that, much later in the evening, the groom himself would come round with the wodka, his bride at his side, and he and Reston would have a drink together in the warm room, the snow white and all-encompassing without, perhaps still falling, and if not still falling, the stars bright and pulsing in the Nowa Polska sky. It was a good life, hard sometimes, but unfailing in its finer moments. In his old age Reston had everything he wanted, and above all he had the simple things which are all any man wants in the final analysis; and if he occasionally needed to apply a slightly different connotation to a familiar word or two in order to alleviate a recurrent sadness, he harmed no one, and he did himself much good. At sixty, he was a contented if not a happy man. But contentment had not come to him overnight. It was a product of the years, an indirect result of his acceptance of a way of life which circumstance and society had forced upon him... Abruptly he got up from his chair and walked over to the window again. There was a quality about the moment that he did not want to lose: the reassuring yellow squares of the community hall windows were part of it, the lilting cadence of the piano accordion; the softly falling snow -- It had been snowing on that night forty years ago too, when Reston had landed the emigration ship; not snowing softly, but with cold fury, the flakes hard and sharp, and coming in on a strong north wind ; biting and stinging the faces of the little group of immigrants huddled in the lee of the slowly disintegrating ship, biting and stinging Reston's face too, though he had hardly noticed. He had been too busy to notice -- Busy rounding up the rest of his passengers, then hurrying the women out of the danger area and setting the men to work unloading the supplies and equipment from the hold, using signs and gestures instead of words because he could not speak their language. As soon as the hold was empty, he directed the rearing of a temporary shelter behind the protective shoulder of a hill; then he climbed to the top of the hill and stood there in the bitter wind and the insanely swirling snow, watching his ship die, wondering what it was going to be like to spend the rest of his life in a foreign colony that consisted entirely of young, newly married couples. For a moment his bitterness overwhelmed him. Why should his ship have been the one to develop reactor trouble in mid-run? Why should the appalling burden of finding a suitable planet for a group of people he had never seen before have fallen upon his shoulders? He felt like shaking his fist at God, but he didn't. It would have been a theatrical gesture, devoid of any true meaning. For it is impossible to execrate God without first having accepted Him, and in all his wild young life the only deity that Reston had ever worshiped was the Faster-Than-LightDrive that made skipping stones of stars. Presently he turned away and walked back down the hill. He found an empty comer in the makeshift shelter and he spread his blankets for the first lonely night In the morning there were improvised services for the single casualty of the forced landing. Then, on leaden feet, the immigrants began their new life. Hard work kept Reston occupied that first winter. The original village had been transported from Earth, and it was assembled in a small mountain-encompassed valley. A river running through the valley solved the water problem for the time being, though chopping through its ice was a dreaded morning chore; and an adjacent forest aflforded plenty of wood to burn till more suitable fuel could be obtained, though cutting it into cords and dragging the cords into the village on crude sleds was a task that none of the men looked forward to. There was a mild flu epidemic along towards spring, but thanks to the efficiency of the youthful doctor, who of course had been included as part of the basic structure of the new society, everybody pulled through nicely. After the spring rains the first crops were planted. The soil of Nowa Polska turned out to be a rich dark loam, a gratifying circumstance to Reston, who had bled his ship of its last drop of energy in order to find the planet. Jt was already inhabited, of course -- traces of the nomadic pilgrimages of the indigenes were apparent in several parts of the valley. At first Reston had some hope in that direction -- until several of the natives walked into the village one morning, smiling hugely with their multiple mouths and pirouetting grotesquely on their multiple legs. But at least they were friendly, and, as it later developed, convenient to have around. He helped with the planting that first spring. That was when he became aware that he was even less an integral part of the new culture than he had thought. Many times he found himself working alone while the immigrants worked in groups of twos and threes. He could not help thinking that he was being avoided. And several times he caught his fellow-workers looking at him with unmistakable disapproval in their eyes. On such occasions he shrugged his shoulders. They could disapprove of him all they wanted to, but like him or not, they were stuck with him. He loafed the summer away, fishing and hunting in the idyllic foothills of the mountains, sleeping in the open sometimes, under the stars. Often he lay half the summer night through, thinking' -- thinking of many things: of the sweet taste of Earth air after a run, of scintillating Earth cities spread out like gigantic pinball machines just waiting to be played, of bright lights and lithe legs, and chilled wine being poured into tall iridescent glasses; but most of all thinking of his neighbors' wives... , In the fall he helped with the harvest. The indigenes' pen hant for farm work was still an unknown factor and consequently had not yet been exploited. Again he saw disapproval in the immigrants' eyes. He could not understand it. If he knew the peasant mind at all, these people should have approved approve of it. But again he shrugged his shoulders. They could go to hell as far as he was concerned, the whole self-righteous, God-fearing lot of them. It was a bountiful harvest. To the immigrants, accustomed as they were to the scrawny yields of Old Country soil, it was unbelievable. Reston heard them talking enthusiastically about the fine kapusti, the enormous ziemniaki, the golden pszenica. He could understand most of what they said by then, and he could even make himself understood, though the thick czs and szs still bothered him. But the language was the least of his troubles in the winter that followed. After the way the immigrants had acted toward him in the fields, Reston had anticipated a winter of enforced isolation. But it was not so. There was scarcely an evening when he wasn't invited to the Andruliewicz's or the Pyzykiewicz's or the Sadowski's to share a flavorful meal and to join in the discussion of whatever subject happened to be of most concern to the community at the moment -- the fodder for the newly domesticated livestock, the shortcomings of the village's only generator, the proposed site for the church... Yet all the while he ate and talked with them he was conscious of an undercurrent of uneasiness, of an unnatural formality of speech. It was as though they could not relax in his presence, could not be themselves. Gradually, as the winter progressed, he stayed home more and more often, brooding in his wifeless kitchen and retiring early to his wifeless bed, tossing restlessly in the lonely darkness while the wind gamboled round the house and sent the snow spraying against the eaves. the hardest thing of all to take. They began arriving late that second winter. By spring there was a whole crop of them... There was one shining hope in Reston's mind, and that hope alone kept his loneliness from turning into bitterness -- the hope that his that a rescue ship was already beamed on the co-ordinates he had scattered to the stars during the taut moments that had preceded planetfall. In a way it was a desperate hope, for if his S O S had not been intercepted it would be at least ninety years before the co-ordinates reached the nearest inhabited planet, and ninety years, even when you were twenty-one and believed that with half a chance you could live forever, was an unpleasant reality to contend with. As the long somber days dragged on, Reston began to read. There was utterly nothing else for him to do. He had finally reached a point where he could no longer stand to visit the burgeoning young families and listen to the lusty squalling of youthful lungs; or endure another pitiful baptism, with the father stumbling through the ritual, embarrassed, humble, a little frightened, splashing water with clumsy hands on the new infant's wizened face. All of the available books were in Polish of course, and most of them, as is invariably the case with peasant literature, dealt with religious themes. A good eighty percent of them were identical copies of the Polish Bible itself, and finally annoyed by its omnipresence whenever he asked his neighbors for something to read, Reston borrowed a copy and browsed his way through it. He could read Polish easily by them, and he could speak it fluently, with far more clarity and with far more expression than the immigrants could themselves. He found the Old Testament God naive. Genesis amused him, and once, to alleviate a dull evening -- and to prove to himself that he was still contemptuous of religious credos regardless of his situation -- he rewrote it the way he thought the ancient Hebrews might have conceived of it had they possessed a more mature comprehension of the universe. At first he was rather proud of his new version, but after rereading it several times he came to the conclusion that except for the postulates that God had not created Earth first and had created a far greater multitude of stars than the ancient Hebrews had given Him credit for, it wasn't particularly original. After reading the New Testament he felt more at peace than he had for a long time. But his peace was short-lived. Spring devastated it when it came. Meadow flowers were hauntingly beautiful that year and Reston had never seen bluer skies -- not even on Earth. When the rains were over and gone he made daily treks into the foothills, taking the Bible with him sometimes, losing himself in intricate green cathedrals, coming sometimes into sudden sight of the high white breasts of the mountains and wondering why he didn't climb them, pass over them into another land and leave this lonely land behind, and all the while knowing, deep in his heart, the reason why he stayed. It wasn't until early in summer, when he was returning from one of his treks, that he finally saw Helena alone. There had been a flu epidemic during that second winter too, but it had not been quite as mild as the first one had been. There had been one death. Helena Kuprewicz was the first Nowa Polska widow. In spite of himself, Reston had thought about her constantly ever since the funeral, and he had wondered frequently about the mores of the new culture as they applied to the interval of time that had to elapse before a bereaved wife could look at another man without becoming a social outcast. Helena was still wearing black when he came upon her in one of the meadows that flanked the village. But she was very fair, and black became the milk-whiteness of her oval face and matched the lustrous darkness of her hair. Helena was a beautiful woman, and Reston would have looked at her twice under any circumstances. She was gathering greens. She stood up when she saw him approaching. Jak sie masz. Pan Reston," she said shyly. Her formality disconcerted him, though it shouldn't have. None of the immigrants had ever addressed him by his first name. He smiled at her. He tried to smile warmly, but he knew' his smile was cold. It had been so long since he had smiled at a pretty girl... '"Jak sie macie Pani Kuprewicz -- " They discussed the weather first, and then the crops, and after that there didn't seem to be anything left to discuss, and Reston accompanied her back to the village. He lingered by her doorstep, reluctant to leave. "Helena," he said suddenly, "I would like to see you again." "Why of course. Pan Reston. You are more than welcome to my house... All spring I waited for you to come, but when you did not I knew" that it was because you were not yet prepared, that you were not quite certain of the call..." He looked at her puzzledly. He had never asked a Polish girl for a date before, but he was reasonably sure that they didn't usually respond in quite so formal a manner, or in quite so respectful a tone of voice. "I mean," he explained, "that I would like to see you again because -- "he floundered for words -- "because I like you, because you are beautiful, because -- His voice trailed away when he saw the expression that had come into her face. Then he stared uncomprehendingly as she turned away and ran into the house. The door slammed and he stood there for a long time, looking dumbly at the mute panels and the little curtained windows. The enormity of the social crime he had apparently committed bewildered him. Surely no society -- not even a society as pious and as God-fearing as the one he was involved in -- would expect its widows to remain widows forever. But even granting that such were the case, the expression that had come into Helena's face was still inexplicable. Reston could have understood surprise, or even shock -- But not horror. He was something besides just an odd number in the peasants' eyes. He was a grotesque misfit, a monster. But why? He walked home slowly, tiydng to think, trying, for the first time, to see himself as the immigrants saw him. He passed the church, heard the sporadic hammering of the carpenters as they applied the finishing touches to the interior. He wondered suddenly why they had built it next door to the only heathen in the village. He brewed coffee in his kitchen and sat down by the window. He could see the foothills, green and lazily rising, with the mountains chaste and white beyond them. He dropped his eyes from the mountains and stared down at his hands. They were long slender hands, sensitive from long association with the control consoles of half a hundred complex ships; the hands of a pilot, different, certainly, from the hands of a peasant, just as he was different, but basically, intrinsically the same. How did they see him? The answer was easy: they saw him as a pilot. But why should their seeing him as a pilot so affect their attitude towards him that they could never relax in his presence, could never evince towards him the warmth and camaraderie, or even the resentment, which they evinced towards each other? A pilot, after all, was nothing but a human being. It was no credit to Reston that he had delivered them from persecution, no credit to him that Nowa Polska had become a reality -- Suddenly he remembered The Book of Exodus. He got up, disbelievingly, and located the copy of the Bible he had borrowed during the winter. With mounting horror, he began to read -- H e had crouched wearily on the little ledge. Above him the insurmountable comice had obfuscated the sky. He had looked down into the valley and he had seen the remote winking of tiny lights that symbolized his destiny. But they symbolized something more than just his destiny: they symbolized warmth and a security of sorts; they symbolized all there was of humanity on Now a Polska, Crouching there on the ledge, in the mountain cold, he had come to the inevitable realization that no man can live alone, and that his own need for the immigrants was as great as their need for him. He had begun the descent then, slowly, because of his weariness and because his hands were bloodied and bruised from the frenzy of the climb. It was morning when he reached the meadows and the sun was gleaming brightly on the cross above the church. Abruptly Reston left the window and returned to his chair. There was pain even in remembered conflict. But the room was warm and pleasant, and his chair deep and comfortable, and gradually the pain left him. Very soon now, he knew, one of the children would come running across the snow bearing viands from the feast, and a knock would sound at his door, and there would come another one of the moments for which he lived, which, added together through the years, had made his surrender to his destiny more bearable. His surrender had not immediately followed his return to the village. It had come about subtly with the passage of the years. It had been the natural result of certain incidents and crises, of unanticipated moments. He tried to remember the moment when he had first stepped briefly into the niche which circumstance and society preordained for him. Surely it must have been during the fourth winter when the little Andruliewicz girl had died -- It had been a dull wintry day, the sky somber, the frozen earth unsoftened as yet with snow. Reston had followed the little procession up the hill that had been set aside for the cemetery and he had stood with the gray-faced immigrants at the edge of the little grave. The casket was a crude wooden one, and the father stood over it awkwardly with the Bible in his hands, stumbling through the service, trying to say the words clearly and instead uttering them brokenly in his clumsy peasant's voice. Finally Reston could stand it no longer and he walked over the frozen ground to where the stricken man was standing and took the Bible into his own hands. Then he stood up straight against the bleak cold sky, tall and strong, and his voice was as clear as a cold wind, yet as strangely soft as a midsummer's day, and filled with the promise of springs yet to come, and the sure calm knowledge that all winters must pass -- 'T am the Resurrection and the Life, saith the Lord: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live: and whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die -- The knock finally sounded and Reston got up from his chair and walked over to the door. Funny the (Continued on page #) Kids of the future may be pedaling around in the sky and stopping oflf in the "wild blue yonder" to look at the earth below whenever they like. A new balloon-helicopter, recently granted a patent, will be the vehicle. Designed for rescue and observation work, the aircraft combines the slow movement and safety advantages of both the balloon and the helicopter. It might also prove useful to the commuter, sports fan and Sunday sight-seer. To operate the craft, the pilot sits on the seat and pedals with his feet, which in turn, causes the helicopter blades mounted below the pilot to rotate. Once airborne, the pilot can literally stop along the way by rotating the balloon mounted above in the opposite direction of the propeller blades. This causes the "flying machine" powered by human energy to stand still. Employers of tomorrow may give those they hire a test to show which persons should use their brains and which should use their backs for manual labor. The tests will consist of careful examinations of the spine, including X-ray pictures, and in fact, doctors are advising them for teen-agers right now so that they can be apprised early of suitable occupations where they will not be putting too much strain on backs that can't take it. In recent pre-employment tests of # persons, only # had what could be called normal backs. The rest had congenital abnormalities, spinal arthritis, postural defects and other spinal conditions which made them easy prey to low back injury or disability. Results of such examinations and proper handling of personnel accordingly would save industry thousands of dollars in compensation claims and workers could be saved time lost, not to mention doctor bills for aid to aching backs. by the year # the average family income in the United States will be # according to the prediction made by a Purdue University professor of sociology. After showing that the standard of living today is twice as high as it it was in #, the professor has analyzed the probable effects of a continuation of this trend. First of all, the standard will continue to rise. This is based on the fact that it has risen so very steadily and such a trend line rarely changes it course radically. The rate of increase may lessen, but it will most probably continue. Poverty will be reduced. Health will improve. A larger market for mass-produced goods will be created. More money from each family budget will go for luxuries. The already declining appeal of socialism will dwindle away to nearly nothing under such circumstances, predicated on the fact that the socialist vote in America has decreased as the living standard increased. Geiger counters may soon be nudging the hammers, pliers and screw-drivers at the local hardware store. The Nuclear Measurements Corp. has just completed a full line of portable counters and scintillators for uranium prospectors that will put them within the reach of anyone itching to do a little prospecting in his own backyard on Sunday afternoon. They will range in price from # to #, will have book-type hinged construction, separate battery shelves, rubber shock mounted tubes and will be serviced quickly without tools. Only # seconds will be necessary to remove or replace the operating assembly and only # seconds to replace all batteries. Concentrated juices in the refrigerator may soon be things of the past. A "superconcentrated" grape juice and a "superconcentrated" apple juice have been developed that can be kept on the pantry shelf for at least a year without losing flavor or becoming spoiled. The fact that they can be stored without refrigeration is seen as a point in favor of a possible cutting of the cost of such juices for tomorrow's housewife. Product of the U.S. Department of Agriculture's research teams, the super juices are made by processing fresh juice to "strip" it of its flavor essence. It is then concentrated and the essence restored to it. The secret of the super juices' storage capacity is that they are packed at # degrees Fahrenheit and then cooled quickly. In this manner they can be stored in glass or tin equally well Motorists on the thruways and freeways of tomorrow may see some pretty strange looking trucks. Recent tests with #-mile-an-hour winds and scale model trucks in a wind tunnel at the University of Maryland have demonstrated that some pretty radical streamlining is in order for truck-trailers. Engineers found that the gap between the cab and the truck alone accounted for one-quarter of the air resistance. First thing on the agenda for the truck of the future will probably be a sliding panel connection between the two units. Another # of the air resistance can be eliminated by "skirting" the vehicle, or covering the top half of the wheels with an outside sheet of metal. The ultimate in this streamlining would employ a "beaver tail" rear design which would reduce wind resistance another #; but since that would cut down actual storage space, the designers will have to make up for it some other way -- which could produce some weird looking trucks indeed. If the six-fingered mutants science fiction writers are always predicting ever become a reality, plastic surgeons have already come up with a technique to solve the problem. Recent experiments have proved that fingers and toes can be kept in "cold storage" imder the skin of the belly for possible use later to replace those lost by accident. The extra digit can be removed surgically, and buried under the skin of the abdomen; the fingers will stay jointed and the nail remain on the nail bed. In past experiments of this type, the bones were usually absorbed. If a child or a grown-up has a finger sliced off by accident, present day technique hasn't yet been able to find a way to successfully resew it to the stump because the burden of recreating blood circulation is too great. But if the finger has been stored in the abdomen it can be transferred gradually to the stump without ever cutting off circulation. Geologists may someday be doing their digging in the ocean. Professor W. M. Ewing of Columbia's Lamont Observatory has suggested the ocean bottom would reveal one of the richest "finds" ever made. Such a core would be a cross section of all the sedimentary layers piled up since water covered most of the planet and scientists could deduce much about the past history of earth. The bottom-most layer, some # feet down might settle the controversy over how the earth originated. The "time tube" would have to be driven into the bottom of a deep ocean basin, probably some # fathoms below the surface of the water. The project would cost some #, which isn't much considering the rich fund of earth-history which would be revealed. Through drilling a similar core on dry land might seem easier and less expensive, sediment layers on the ocean floor arc much thinner and a greater span of geologic time is covered in the same distance. Survivors of an atomic or a hydrogen bomb attack in the United States may have to spend a week underground. This new estimate was suggested in a recent publication Facts About Fallout, issued by the Federal Civil Defense Admins tration. One of the recommendations for survival calls for a seven-day supply of B-rations, emergency food and water for storage in home shelters. Previous recommendations had postulated only a three-day post-bomb survival pantry. Now, however, they feel that a larger bomb would contaminate a larger area, and it would take a longer time for decontamination crews to survey it for the safety factor. Seven days is almost a maximum estimate, and the time might be considerably less. TV may someday replace railroad detectives and "yard men" in the freight yards of the nation's rolling stock. One such device already in operation is working night and day in the Potomac Yard in Alexandria, Virginia. There, two evervigilant cameras in a shed keep their lenses peeled for freight trains arriving from the south. As the train chugs through the shed at ten miles an hour, the number and initials of each passing car are picked up and relayed to a TV screen in the record office two miles away. The Happy dlown This was a century of peace, plethora and perfection. and little Steven was a misfit, a nonconformist, who hated perfection. He had to learn the hard way... misfit, a nonconformist, and for the first five years of his life he made himself and his parents extremely unhappy. The twenty-first century was perfect, and this inexplicable child did not like perfection. The first trouble arose over his food. His mother did not nurse him, since the doctors had proved that Baby-Iiac, and the soft rainbowcolored plastic containers in which it was warmed and offered, were both a vast improvement on nature. Steven drank the Baby-Lac, but though it was hard to credit in so young a child, sometimes his face wore an expression of pure distaste. A little later he rejected the Baby Oatsies and Fruitsies and Meatsies, and his large halffocused eyes wept at the jolly pictures on the jarsies. He disliked his plastic dish made like a curled-up Jolly Kitten, and his spoon with the Happy Clown's head on the handle. He turned his face away determinedly and began to pine, reducing his mother to tears Illustrated by Kelly Freas and his father to frightened anger. The doctor said cheerily, "There's nothing the matter with him. He'll eat when he gets hungry enough," and Steven did, to a degree, but not as if he enjoyed it. One day when he was nearly a year old, his mother carried his Kiddie Korner with the Dancing Dogsies on the pad into her bedroom, put him in it, and began to take things out of the bottom bureau drawer. They were old things, and Harriet Russell was ashamed of them. She had said more than once to her husband Richard, only half joking, "I couldn't give them away, and I'd be ashamed for anybody to see them in our trash!" They were old silver, knives and forks nd spoons that looked like what they were, unadorned, and a child's plain silver dish and cup, and one small spoon with a useful curly handle. They had belonged to Harriet's greatgrandmother. Once a year Harriet took the thin??s out and polished them and furtively put them back. This year Steven cried, "Ma!" stretching out his hands toward the silver and uttering a string of determined sounds which were perfectly clear to his mother. She smiled at him lovingly but shook her head. "No, Stevie. Mumsie's precious baby doesn't want those nasty old things, no he doesn't! Play with your Happy Clown, sweetheart." Steven's face got red, and he squeezed his eyes shut, opened his mouth and howled until his mother passed him the dish and cup and curly spoon to play with. At mealtime he would not be parted from them, and Harriet had to put away the plastic dish and spoon. Thereafter, for the sake of the container, he tolerated the thing contained, and thrived and grew fat. Steven did not like his Rockabye Grib, that joggled him gently and sang him songs about the Happy Clown all night long; and he howled until they turned it off. He was a clean boy, and to his mother's amazement trained himself to be dry day and night by the age of fourteen months, without the aid of the Singing Toidey or the Happy Clown Alarm ; so she bought him a Little Folks Youth Bed, with a built-in joggler, and Happy Clowns on the corners, and a television set in the footboard. It was a smaller copy of his parents' bed, even to the Happy Clowns. Steven did not like that either, and if his parents persisted in turning the bed on after he had learned to turn it off, he climbed out and slept on the floor. Harriet said worriedly to her husband, "I don't know what could be the matter with him. Dickie, he's peculiar!" Richard tried to comfort her. "Never mind, Harry, he'll outgrow it." Steven did not outgrow it. When he became too big for the curly spoon and dish and cup he demanded a knife and fork and spoon from the bureau drawer and ate his meals from the plainest dish he could find. He ate them with his back stubbornly turned to the television set, away from the morning cartoons and the noontime Kiddies' Lunch Club and the evening Happy Clown. The Happy Clown had been an American institution for thirty years. He was on television for an hour every night at dinner time, with puppets and movies and live singers and dancers and his own inimitable brand of philosophy and humor. Everybody loved the Happy Clown. He had been several different actors in thirty years, but his makeup never changed: the beaming face drawn in vivid colors, the rotund body that shook when he laughed like a bowlful of Jellsies, and the chuckling infectious laugh. The Happy Clown was always so cheerful and folksy and sincere. He believed passionately in all the products he instructed his viewers to buy, and one was entirely certain that he used them all himself. He gave one much more than advertising, though. Some of his nightly gems of wisdom (he called them nuggets) were really wonderful ; they made one think. A favorite nugget, which people were always writing in and asking him to repeat, went like this: "We're all alike inside, folks, and we ought to be all alike outside." The Happy Clown's viewers were not children and adults, they were kiddies and folks. After the Happy Clown went off the air the happy kiddies went to bed, to lie for a while looking at the Jolly Kitten and the Dancing Dogsie, until, lulled by the joggler, they went gently to sleep. After that came the cowboys and spacemen, carryovers for any happy kiddies with insomnia. For really meaty programs one had to stay up past ten. Then the spectaculars began, and the quiz shows, and the boxing and wrestling. Steven did not like the Happy Clown or the Jolly Kitten or the Dancing Dogsie. Sometimes he began to grow interested in the cowboys or spacemen, but when they stopped in the middle of an adventure to talk about how they could not possibly rope the steers or shoot the asteroids without a good breakfast of Gornsies and Choko-Milko, which everybody ate, just everybody, Steven climbed out of bed and slept on the floor. Steven did not like the records or the talking books, and when he went to kiddie-garden he viewed the televised lessons with a cold eye. For some reason which he could not have explained, he wanted to learn to read, but they would not teach him till he was seven, and so he taught himself, from the letters on the jarsies. But then there was nothing to read except the newspapers and the magazines, which he puzzled over patiently, getting most of the words right after a while. The many advertisements were easiest ; they used pictures and the simplest of language. His parents thought it was very cunning of him to look at the printing like that, so wisely, as if he could read it! He said once to Harriet, "I can read it," but she said, "Oh, Stevie, you're teasing Mumsiel" and looked so frightened at this fresh peculiarity that the child said gravely, "Yes, teasing." He wished he had a silent book. He knew there were such things, but there were none at home. There were few silent books anywhere. There were none in kiddie-garden. Steven was not happy in kiddiegarden. The enthusiasm the other kiddies showed for the lessons appalled him. The kiddies themselves appalled him. They joined so passionately in the group play, clutching each other with their hot moist hands, panting and grinning into each others faces. They were always clutching and panting and grinning, in large noisy groups, with large community smiles. They confused him; he could not tell them apart. Steven retired to a corner and turned his back, and when they clutched and panted and grinned at him he hit them. The kiddie-garden monitor had to report of him to his unhappy parents that he was uncooperative and anti-social. He would not merge with the group, he would not acquire the proper attitudes for successful community living, he would not adjust. Most shocking of all, when the lesson about the birdsies and becsies was telecast, he not only refused to participate in the ensuing period of group experimentation, but lost color and disgraced himself by being sick in his corner. It was a painful interview. At the end of it the monitor recommended the clinic. Richard appreciated her delicacy. The clinic would be less expensive than private psychiatry, and after all, the manager of a supermarket was no millionaire. Harriet said to Richard when they were alone, "Dickie, he isn't outgrowing it, he's getting worse! What are we going to do?" It was a special tragedy, since Harriet was unable to have any more kiddies, and if this one turned out wrong... Richard said firmly, "We'll take him to the clinic. They'll know what to do." The first thing they did to Steven was to talk to him. The psychiatrist made him lie down on a foam rubber couch, kiddies' model, with the Happy Clown motif on the slipcover, and said with a beaming face, "Now, Stevie, what seems to be the trouble?" The boy turned his head away from the psychiatrist's shining teeth and said, "My name's not Stevie. It's Steven." He was a thin little boy, rather undersized. The baby fat had melted away fast when he began to be exposed to kiddie-garden. He had dark hair and big eyes and an uncommonly precise way of speaking for a child of five. The psychiatrist said, "Oh, but we're going to be friends, Stevie, and friends always use nicknames, The boy said politely, "I'd rather not, please." The doctor was undismayed. "I want to help you. You believe that, don't you, Stevie?" The child said, "Steven. Do I have to lie down?" The doctor said agreeably, "It's more usual to lie down, but you may sit up if you want to. Why don't you like kiddie-garden, Steven?" The boy sat up and regarded him warily. The doctor had a kind face, a really kind face in spite of all those shining teeth, and Steven was only five years old, after all, and there was nobody to talk to, and he was desperately unhappy. Perhaps... He said, "You'll tell them." The doctor shook his head. "Nothing goes farther than this room, Stevie -- Steven." The child leaned forward, pressing his knees together, hugging himself with his arms, bowing his head. His position was almost foetal. He said, "I'm never by myself. They never let me be by myself." The psychiatrist said reasonably, "But nobody can live by himself, Stevie." He had apparently forgotten Steven, and the boy did not correct him again. "You have to learn to live with other people, to work and play with them, to know them, and the only way you can learn is by being with them. When you can't be with them personally, there's always television. That's how you learn, Stevie. You can't be by yourself." The boy looked up and said starkly, "Never?" The gleaming teeth showed. "But why should you want to?" Steven said, don't know." The doctor said, slowly and with emphasis, "Stevie, long before you were born the world was a very bad place. There were wars all the time. Do you kno'v why?" The boy shook his head. "It was because people were different from each other, and didn't understand each other, and didn't know each other. They had to learn how to be alike, and understand, and know, so that they would be able to live together. They learned in many ways, Stevie. One way was by visiting each other -- you've heard about the visitors who come from -- " Steven said, "You mean the Happy Tours." "Yes. When you're twelve years old you can go on a Happy Tour. Won't that be fun?" Steven said, "If I could go alone." The doctor looked at him sharply. "But you can't. Try to understand, Stevie, you can't. Now tell me -- why don't you like to be with other people?" Steven said, "All the time -- not all the time" The doctor repeated patiently, "Why?" Steven looked at the doctor and said a very strange thing. "They touch me." He seemed to shrink into himself. "Not just with their hands." The doctor shook his head sadly. "Of course they do, that's just -- well, maybe you're too young to understand." The interview went on for quite a while, and at the end of it Steven was given a series of tests which took a week. The psychiatrist had not told the truth; what the boy said, during the first intendew and all the tests, was fully recorded on concealed machines. The complete transcript made a fat dossier in the office of the Clinic Director. At the end of the tests the Director said seriously to Steven's parents, "I'll be frank with you. You now he has the intelligence of a to be channeled in the right direction. Just now -- well, frankly, it's channeled in the wrong direction. We'll give it a year or so, and then if things don't clear up I'm afraid we'll have to correct him." Richard said through dry lips, "You mean a Steyner?" The Director nodded. "The only thing." Harriet shuddered and began to cry. "But there's never been anything like that in our family! The disgrace -- oh, Dickie, it would kill me!" The Director said kindly, "There's no disgrace, Mrs. Russell. That's a mistaken idea many people have. These things happen occasionally -- nobody knows why -- and there's absolutely no disgrace in a Steyner. Nothing is altered but the personality, and afterward you have a happy normal kiddie who hardly remembers that anything was ever wrong with him. Naturally nobody ever mentions it... But there's no hurry; in the case of a kiddie we can wait a while. Bring Stevie in once a week; we'll try therapy first." Being, as the Director had said, derstood much of what was kept from him. It did not take him long to learn what was making his Dadsie look stem and white and what was making his Mumsie cry. He loved his parents and did not want them to be unhappy, and he certainly did not want to have his head cut open, and so he began to act. Even at five, Steven discovered in himself a fine talent for acting. He began to conform, to adjust, to merge. He became social and cooperative and acquired the proper attitudes for successful community living. He gave up the old silver voluntarily, he accepted the Youth Bed, he looked at the Happy Clown, and he did much better in kiddie-garden. He even joined in the group experimentation and was not sick any more, though he could not keep himself from losing color. They were pleased with him at the clinic and after a few months discharged him. By the time Steven was twelve and had made the Happy Tour and joined the Happy Scouts and had a happy affair, involving experimentation, with a neighbor's daughter, Harriet and Richard ceased to worry about him. If sometimes he felt so tightly strung-up that a storm of tears was his only relief, he kept the tears quiet. H e was graduated from high school at sixteen and from college at twenty, having read all he could of the silent books in the scant high school library and the more ample university one, and having wisely elected to appear more stupid than he was. Even his I. Q. was now judged to be only slightly above normal. He left college with honors, popularity and a reputation as an actor. He took the lead in all the dramatic club plays, having particular success in the reproduction of a Happy Clown program. Steven, of course, was the Happy Clown. He enrolled at once in the New York School of Television Arts, and his mother cried when he left home to live in the School dormitory. Steven did well at Television Arts, soon taking more leads than was customary in School productions, which were organized on a strictly repertory basis. He did not stay to graduate, being snatched away in his first year by a talent scout for a popular daytime serial, 'The Happy Life." "The Happy Life" recounted the trials of a young physician, too beautiful for his own good, who became involved in endless romantic complications. Steven was given the lead, the preceding actor having moved up to a job as understudy for the Jolly Kitten, and was an immediate success. For one thing he looked the part. He was singularly handsome in a lean darkbrowed way and did not need flattering makeup or special camera angles. He had a deep vibrant voice and perfect timing. He could say, "Darling, this is tearing me to pieces!" with precisely the right intonation, and let tears come into his magnificent eyes, and make his jaw muscles jump appealingly, and hold the pose easily for the five minutes between the ten-minute pitch for Marquis cigarettes which constituted one episode of "The Happy Life." His fan mail was prodigious. If Steven had moments of bewilderment, of self-loathing, of despair, when the tears were real and the jaw muscles jumped to keep the mouth from screaming, no one in the Happy Young Men's dormitory where he slept ever knew it. He managed his life well enough. He had a few affairs with girls, it was expected of one, and he did not have to work very hard at it since they always threw themselves at him; and he got along well with other young men, who forgave him for being so handsome because he did not work at it except on camera; but he was lonely. Surrounded by people, intruded and trespassed upon, continually touched in ways other than physical, he was yet lonely. During his life he had met a few other nonconformists, shy, like him, wary of revealing themselves, but something always seemed to happen to them. Some were miserable being nonconformists and asked pitifully for the Steyner, some were detected, as Steven had been, and some were unfortunately surprised in hospitals. Under the anesthetic thev sometimes talked, and then, if they were adults, they were immediately corrected by means of Steyner's lobotomy. It had been learned that adults did not respond to therapy. There was never any organization, any underground, of misfits. An underground presupposes injustice to be fought, cruelty to be resisted, and there was no injustice and no cruelty. The mass of people were kind, and their leaders, duly and fairly elected, were kind. They all sincerely believed in the gospel of efficiency and conformity and kindness. It had made the world a wonderful place to live in, full of wonderful things to make and buy and consume (all wonderfully advertised), and if one were a misfit and the doctors found it out and gave one a Steyner, it was only to make one happy, so that one could appreciate what a wonderful world it was. Steven met no nonconformists at the School of Television Arts, and none while he was acting in "The Happy Life" until Denise Cottrell joined the cast. Denise -- called Denny, of course -- was a pleasantly plain young woman with a whimsical face which photographed pretty, and remarkable dark blue eyes. It was her eyes which first made Steven wonder. They mirrored his own hope, and longing, and the desperate loneliness of the exile. For two months they were together as often as they could be, talking intellectual treason in public under cover of conventional faces, and talking intellectual treason in private with excitement and laughter and sometimes tears -- falling in love. They planned, after much discussion, to be married and to bring up a dozen clever rebel children. Denise said soberly, "They'd better be clever, because they'll have to learn to hide." They made love in Denise's apartment when her roommate Pauline -- Polly -- was out, as awkwardly as if there had never been any group experimentation or happy affairs. Denise said wonderingly, "When you really love someone it's all new. Isn't that strange?" and Steven said, kissing her, "No, not strange at all." He took her to meet his family -- Denise's family lived three thousand miles away -- and she behaved with such perfect decorum and charm that Richard and Harriet were delighted and as eager as Steven for the wedding. Steven had agreed reluctantly to put it off until Denise had a chance to introduce him to her parents; they were coming East at Christmas. She laughed over it and said, "I'm being terribly conventional, darling, but that's one convention I like." While they waited, Steven's agent secured a really unprecedented opportunity for so young and relatively untried an actor. The current Happy Clown was unhappily retiring, by reason of age and infirmity, and Steven's agent arranged a tryout for the part. He said, "Give it all you got, kid; it's the chance of the century." Steven said, "Sure, Joey," and allowed his sensitive face to register all the proper emotions. Actually his emotions were, in the vernacular of a previous century, mixed. He loathed the whole concept of the Happy Clown -- but there was money in it, and Steven was not rebel enough to despise money. With money he could retire early, go away somewhere with Denise, to some coimtry place where they could be relatively free of pressure. Over staggering competition he got the part. He called Denise up at once from a booth at the studio to tell her. Polly answered the phone, looking pale and frightened over the viewer, and said rapidly, "Oh, Stevie, I've been trying to get you for an hour. Denny's sick. They took her to the hospital!" Steven sat back against the hard wall of the booth, feeling cold, the receiver slack in his hand. He said, "What's the matter with her? Which hospital?" "Ap-pendicitis. Happy Hour." Polly began to cry. "Oh, Stevie, I feel so -- " "I'll go right over." He cut her off abruptly and went. The doctors caught Denise's appendix in time to avoid the necessary but rarely fatal complications... but under the anesthetic she talked, revealing enough about her opinion of television, and the Happy Clown cult, and the state of society in general, to cause her doctors to raise their eyebrows pityingly and perform the Steyner at once. While Steven sat unknowing in the waiting room, smoking a full pack of Marquis cigarettes, the thing was done. At last the doctor came out to him and said what was always said in such cases. "It was necessary to do something -- you understand, no mention -- " and for a moment Steven felt so ill that he was grateful for the little ampoule the doctor broke and held under his nose. They always carried those when they had to give news of a Steyner to relatives or sweethearts or friends. The doctor said, "All right now? Good... You'll be careful, of course. She may be conscious for a minute ; there's no harm in it yet, she won't move or touch the -- " Steven said, "I'll be careful." He was still feeling ill when they let him in to see Denise. He sat down beside her bed and spoke to her urgently. "Denise, talk to me. Please, Denise!" She opened her eyes, looked at him drowsily and smiled. "Oh, Stevie, I'm so glad you came. I've been wanting you, darling." Steven said, "Denise -- " She frowned. "Why do you call me that? Call me Denny. Did you get the part, darling?" He drew back a little. "Yes, I got it." She gave him a radiant smile. "That's wonderful ! I'm so proud of you, Stevie." She slept again. tory Steven did not sleep. He lay quiet, tense, hoping for the relief of tears, but it did not come. every day though after the first time she was not awake to know him. The doctors were keeping her under sedation until the head bandage could be removed. So far as Denise was to know, she had gone to the hospital simply for a rather protracted appendectomy. Looking at her, Steven knew that he could never leave her. He had loved her completely; he would love her now with as much of himself as she would need or understand. For a while he waited to be kindly questioned, to be thoroughly examined, to be tenderly given the shot in the arm and to awake like her, but nobody came. Denise had apparently said nothing about him. Some censor or other -- perhaps it was the censor of love -- had kept her from even saying his name. For a while Steven considered confessing to somebody that he was a -- what? -- an unacceptable member of society. Then they would make him like Denise. He shuddered. Did he really want to be like Denise? Some stubborn pride in him refused it. When Denise left the hospital for the hotel where she would stay until the wedding, Steven was more gentle with her than ever, kinder and more loving. He made her very happy. He made love to her again, and it was like loving a ghost -- no, it was like loving a fine beautiful body without the ghost, without the spirit. He returned to the breathings and mutterings of the other young men, turning restlessly in his bed, feeling oppressed, tormented, strung on wires. He rehearsed feverishly for the part of the Happy Clown, and because he was a fine craftsman and a conscientious artist he continued to give it all he had. The sponsors were pleased. A week before Christmas the current Happy Clown retired and hobbled off to a nursing home. There was no fanfare -- the public was not to realize that the Happy Clown was mortal -- and Steven took over with no visible change. For five days he played the part to perfection. On the sixth day he performed as usual, perhaps a little better. His commercials had a special fervor, and the sponsors exchanged happy glances. Denise was sitting in the booth with them; she smiled at Steven lovingly through the glass. Steven was running a little fast tonight. The engineer made stretching motions with his hands to slow him down, but he used up all his material, even the nugget, with three minutes to spare. Then he said, "All right, folks, now I have a special treat for you," and moved quickly to the center mike. Before the sponsors, or the engineers, or the studio audience, or anybody in the whole American nation knew what was happening, he began rapidly to talk. He said, "Are you all happy? You are, aren't you? -- everybody's happy, because you're all sheep! All sheep, in a nice safe pasture. All alike -- you eat alike and dress alike and think alike. If any of you has an original thought you'd better suppress it, or they'll cut it out of you with a knife." He leaned forward and made a horrible face at the camera. Under the jolly makeup and the artful padding, his mouth was shockingly twisted, and tears were running out of his eyes. "A long sharp knife, folks!" He paused momentarily to recover his voice, which had begun to shake. "Go on being happy, go on being sheep. Wear the clothesies, and eat the foodsies, and don't dare think! Me -- I'd rather be dead, and damned, and in hell!" Fortunately nobody heard the last three sentences. The paralyzed engineer had recovered in time to cut him off during the pause, and had signalled the stagehand to draw the curtain and the sound man to play the Happy Clown sign-off record -- loud. Steven finished himself thoroughly, however, by fepeating the same sentiments, with some others he happened to think of, to Denise and the sponsors, when they all came pouring out of the booth. Then he collapsed. Steven's Steyner W#is a complete success. He recovered from it a subdued, agreeable and thoroughly conventional young man, who had the impression that he had suffered a nervous breakdown. He was discharged from the Happy Hour at the end of January, innocently leaving behind him the broken hearts of three nurses and one female physician, and went home to his parents. During his convalescence they were patient with him and passionately kind. In spite of the disgrace they felt, a disgrace that would never be mentioned, they loved him even better than before, because now he was irrevocably like them. Denise was lost to him. The outburst in the studio, and the Steyner, and the loss of the Happy Clown part were cumulatively too much for her. She broke the engagement and was heard to say that Stevie Russell had proved himself an absolute fool. He was miserable over it, though he had only a hazy idea of what he had done or why Denny should suddenly be so unkind to him. The Happy Clown incident had passed off well -- immediately after it occurred, a powerful battery of comedians, including the Jolly Kitten and the Dancing Dogsie, forgetting rivalries to rally 'round in a crisis, went on the air to insure that it passed off well. They made certain that every viewer should regard the whole thing as a tremendously funny if rather mystifying joke. The viewers fell in with this opinion easily and laughed about the sheep joke a good deal, admiring the Happy Clown's sense of humor -- a little sharp, to be sure, not so folksy and down-to-earth as usual, but the Happy Clown could do no wrong. They said to each other, "He laughed till he cried, did you notice? So did I!" For a while teenagers addressed each other as, "Hi, sheep!" (girls were, "Hi, lamb!"), and a novelty company in Des Moines made a quick like sheep andor lambs. But, around the studios Steven was dead. Steyner or no Steyner -- and of course that part of it was never openly discussed -- sponsors had long memories, and the consensus seemed to be that it was best to let sleeping sheep lie. Steven did not care. He no longer had any particular desire to be an actor. Steven went to work in his father's supermarket and was happy among the shelves of Oatsies and Cornsies and Jellsies. He got over Denise after a while and met a girl named Frances -- Franny -- whom he loved and who loved him. They were married in the summer and had a little house with as much furniture in it as they could afford. The first thing they bought was a television set. After all, as Stevie said, he would not want to miss the Happy Clown.    At the recent # th Western Science Fiction Conference in Los Angeles: Ray Bradbury communicated an enormous amount of enthusiasm as he related how he got his ideas and developed them. "Over my typewriter," he said, "I have a sign that says Dont Think. And I really try not to when I sit down to write a story. I just let my subconscious take over. A character emerges, I delineate some of his characteristics and give him free rein, and as he runs on ahead of me, shouting back for me to follow, I try to capture the echoes of his activities on paper." He revealed the fascinating facets of the geneses of such stories a,s The Foghom, The Tapestry, and The Dwarf, crediting the inspiration for the latter to an observation made by his long-time friend Edmond Hamilton in the distorted mirror section of an amusement pier Fun House... Lou Place offered a delightful s.f. comedy short, in color, about an interplanetary trip to Pluto by two canine scientists and the monster they met on our outermost planet... Ivan Tors, producer of the popular Science Fiction Theater, was present to answer questions about his first series of # telefilms, and showed two, "Frozen Sound" and "The Lost Heartbeat" in advance of their channel releases... In an adjoining annex, many fans spent much time admiring the art exhibit of original paintings and photographic effects by Blaisdell, Bonestell, Schneeman, Fagg, Nuetzell, Dollens, Cobb, Hunter and others. The entire affair was sponsored by the Chesley Donavan Science Fantasy Foundation, a group of live-wire, teenage enthusiasts living in towns adjacent to Los Angeles, with Lew Kovner, Tad Duke, Mark Pinney, Chris Robinson, Ron Cobb and Paul Shoemaker most actively participating in the management of the conference. "down under" in Australia and writing his next book, "The Stars and The City"... Continuing their overseas tour, the Heinleins have recently been heard of in Heidelburg, Egypt and London... Mack Reynolds and the missus are hibernating in Spain... Ray Bradbury wants to return to Sicily... Arthur Jean Cox has completed his first sci-fi novel... Chad Oliver busy on an anthropological monograph... Jerry Bixby and Jim Causey make it in the next annual Best of S.F. from Dikty and Fell... John Bloodstone is working on a novel project to unite two of the greatest s.f. characters of all time... Martha Foley will have a science fiction selection in her next duction of Jack Finney's C oilier s hit and pocketbook. The Body Snatchers, gets an E-for-Excellent from me, and I told Wagner so in the foyer of the Westwood Village after the preview. That rare treat, a film that is very faithfiil to the book -- flight up to the end. commander has to pit his cunning against the magic of a super-science thousands of years ahead of anything he has ever seen? Captain Allen Hawkins was faced with the dilemma of delivering Earth and its civilization into slavery or witnessing its complete destruction. It was truly an "avoidance situation" -- as the psychologists call it -- and Captain Hawkin's answer had to be the most facile one Man had ever been called on to make... long novelette by James McConnell, is one of e most exciting space stories you've read in a long time. Don't miss it in the February IF... Also in this issue: You'll find situation, suspense, thrills in And those peculiar organisms washing up on the beaches will leave you with long thoughts -- when you iam Allen de Ford... Plus other top notch stories and features -- all in the February IF. Dear Mr. Quinn: I recently had occasion to show the story "The Cyber and Justice Holmes by Frank Riley, which appeared in the March # issue of IF, to Joseph Harrison, editor of the New Jersey Law Journal. He was much impressed with the story and the philosophy it expressed, and he has asked me to write to you for permission to reprint the story in the Law Journal during the coming summer. Mr. Harrison feels the story would be of particular interest to the profession especially since the State Bar Association here has for several years been investigating the feasibility of modest applications of modern processing machinery to legal research. -- Vincent Biunno Newark, New Jersey Were glad to extend permission to reprint the story in the New Jersey Law Journal... and delighted that sf is pointing the way in fields other than space travel. Dear Mr. Quinn: The straightforward policy evident in your magazine of reducing extrapolation back to life and so giving science-fiction stories a genuine psychological, socialogical and scientific meaning is both surprising and welcome. I would like to suggest that extrapolation in s-f has really been a search for wider vision and understanding by taking all types of problems and situations to their extreme. Along the road thousands of problems have been met and dealt with as fiction. Could it be that s-f readers and writers are now possessed of a balance and width and depth of vision very isolated in this world of specializations and conflicting ideals? That the direct application of the psychological results of this vast voyage into fantasy is a possibility? It seems to me that s-f represents a body of people whose width of vision could allow the full and free discussion of controversial subjects without resulting in unseemly and useless brawls. In conclusion may I draw your attention to the sum and substance of Jungian psychology in that a higher consciousness sees the conflicts of life as though observing a storm in a valley from a mountain top; a result that is obtained by a similar voyage into fantasy. -- R. M. Carrier Sydney, New South Wales. Perhaps Mr, Carrier has put his finger on the answer to that ever recurring question What is science-fiction? Dear Mr. Quinn: As usual, I enjoyed every story in the last issue of IF even if there was fantasy in it. You see I go for deep space drama, the more technical the better. The two features "What's Your Science I.Q.?" and "Science Briefs" are my real loves and I'm making up files on them. One can really learn a lot from these two features. The color reproductions of the moon-shuttle ships were out of this world. I'm a model plane builder graduating in rockets and space ships and the picture was an excellent source of a plan for a model moon-shuttle. Keep up the good work! -- W. G. Brandt Oakland, Calif. Cigar shape versus spherical -- theres quite a hit of contention on that. However, proceed with the spherical -- well back you up -- theoretically, anyway. Dear Mr. Quinn: I've been a reader of IF for close to a year, but have never written to you until now. Why? Obviously, because I never had an opportunity. IF's no reader-departments-ataU editorial policy put the proverbial damper on my letter writing, so I said Ae heck with it. If Quinn doesn't care what his readers think, I'm certainly not going to break my back trying to get through to him. But, lo, IF is turning over a new leaf. Not only will the next issue feature "Hue and Cry", but I've also discovered via "Fantasy Times" that another feature... ("Odd Genre")... will be included. Needless to say, I'm pleasantly surprised. Like most prozine editors, I suppose you're interested in readers' suggestions. Well, I'm here to strongly suggest that you do completely away with three of your present features. "Science Briefs", "What's Your Science I.Q.?" and "Worth Citing" are a trio of the most boring features that I have yet run across. As for the August issue, all the stories ranked from fair to very good. However, Isaac Asimov, top honors. I didn't like your cover this time, but then I seldom do. The last good one that IF featured was Mel Hunter's moonscape on the April '# ish. Now there's a boy that can draw! -- Kent Moomaw Cincinnati, Ohio Well let the letter from W, C, Brandt and several others in our files give you an idea of an editors dilemma when he starts getting suggestions from the readers. In-cidentally, weve got a cover by Hunter in the works, Hes been busy with some stuf for the mus eum of Natural History in NY, But we snagged him away from the fossils long enough to do one for us. Dear Mr. Quinn: This is to thank you for a magazine that's worth its price and the space it takes up. I'm always sorry that I missed an issue or two of IF back at the beginning, but that's my penalty for shying away from a newer book. I'm catching up though, and I have to admit (gladly) that I've several times pushed aside Astounding's more technical pages in order to get down to more enjoyable reading in more colorful IF. Others in my family, various relatives, scrounge through IF, and really enjoy reading it -- while they never showed any interest in other s-f books I had lying around -- which goes to show you've got a wide general appeal. Please keep IF smart and original, and don't bother too much about following the well worn grooves in the s-f field. There are too many mags doing just that. -- A. S. B. Hallam Maywood, Calif. Dear Editor: I've been reading IF for quite some time and find it highly entertaining; but I, for one, believe you could improve on two points. First, there should be more stories. Fast readers can finish the ish in no time, then have to sit back impatiently for the next. Second, there are people like myself who do not fully understand certain phrases and terms and would like to know more about certain planets. I am certain it would be greatly appreciated if you would print a dictionary section in the back of each issue to enlighten such ignoramuses as myself. -- P. E. Hamler Roseburg, Oregon The first point can be covered by the old cry ( and true as all old sayings are true) that good stories are scarce. The second, by our recommendation that you try the science quiz we feature in each issue. It's designed for both those who flatter themselves they know the answers and those who feel they'd like to know. Dear Mr. Quinn: Aren't you interested in the overseas market? There are eight million people in Australia, a good many of them who read s-f and who would certainly appreciate the opportunity to read IF. Please give the idea serious consideration. -- R. H. Harding Maylands, West Australia # -- Clavius. # -- Twenty-six. # -- Callisto. # -- Antikhthon. # -- Ninety-eight. # -- Bary center. # -- #. #I -- Osmium. # -- Closer. # -- Vulcan. # -- Light. # -- Tesseract. # -- Two, # -- # degrees. # -- Sixth. # -- Yes. # -- Four. way, a simple, God-fearing people would regard a spaceman, he thought. Especially the particular spaceman who had delivered them from persecution and brought them to the Promised Land; who had nonchalantly manipulated a ship three acres long by one acre wide with nothing but his fingers; who had, in the course of Exodus, performed exploits that made Moses' rivening of the waters of the Red Sea seem like a picayun miracle by comparison; and who had, after the Promised Land had been attained, made many wanderings into the Wilderness to commune with God, sometimes carrying the sacred Book itself. But that attitude by itself would # fantasy and sciencefiction books and backissue magazines at # to # under what theyVe cost you before, here or anywhere, while they last! Shannon Rd., R.D. #, Box #K Verona, Pennsylvania not have been enough to engender the social pressure that had shaped his way of life without the catalyst that the single casualty of planetfall had provided. Reston could still appreciate the irony in the fact that that single casualty should have involved the most essential pillar in the structure of the new society -- the Polish priest himself... He opened the door and peered out into the snow. Little Piotr Pyzykiewicz was standing on the doorstep, a huge dish in his arms. "Good evening. Father. I've brought you some kielhasa and some golabki and some pierogi and some kiszki and -- Father Reston opened the door wide. Being a priest had its drawbacks of course -- maintaining peace in a monogamous society that refused to stay evenly balanced as to sex, for one, and making certain that his sometimes too greedy flock did not over-exploit the simple indigenes, for another. But it had its compensations, too. For, while Reston could never have children of his own, he had many many children in a different sense of the word, and what harm could there be in an old man's pretending to a virility which circumstance and society had denied him? "Come in, my son he said.    It is almost folly to talk of the limitations of the mind. I tell you that the limitations of your mind are much farther off than you suppose they are. -- Louis Sullivan appears in telescopes as a mirror-bright object with an extremely high albedo or reflective index. That is, it reflects back to the observer a large portion of the sunlight which strikes it. The inference drawn from this phenomenon is that Europa once had a heavy gaseous envelope which has precipitated out as a thick layer of frozen gases which now covers the entire surface with mountainous layers of ice. (Drawings by Mel Hunter) rnp you science fiction fans who rUli like to sit down with a puzzle that offers a real challenge -- that will test your knowledge of things scientific and otherwise -- grab a copy of this newest and latest magazine of puzzles by expert composers for expert puzzle doers -- crossword P U Z Z L E S It's chock-full of some of the most interesting crosswords, diagramless puzzles, crostics and cryptograms to be found anywhere In America... the kind guaranteed to keep your wits nimble and your pencil busy. Weeks of fun in every issue! At all newsstands -- Only #c  ture satellite is shown here in two phases of its brief existence: the initial phase, its launching (left) as part of a threestage rocket, and (below) its final moment as it flips over just before disintegrating from intense heat of friction with denser atmosphere. See page # for more detailed description. (Drawings by Mel Hunter) All Stories New and Complete I "Atomic Submarine Lurking Under Reef in Southern   California Waters" by Mel Hunter  IF is published bi-monthly by Quinn Publishing Company, Inc. Volume #, No. #. Copyright # by Quinn Publishing Co., Inc. Office of publication, # Lord Street, Buffalo, New York. Entered as Second Class Matter at Post Office, Buffalo, New York. Subscription # for # issues in U.S. and Possessions; Canada # for # issues; elsewhere #. Allow four weeks for change of address. All stories appearing in this magazine are fiction; any similarity to actual persons is coincidental. Not responsible for unsolicited artwork or manuscripts. #c a copy. Printed in U.S.A. Next issue on sale February #th i # I wm # I # I # I #  a E #  #I I # I # I E  genre  title of a story by John Russell Fearn published # years ago and remembered by me to this day. I may also remember it as my motto for the Glevention: during # terrific hours of conventioning, I slept approximately # ! Last day and nite of all I went clean 'round the clock. The incentive for this anti-Morpheus marathon? Who could sleep with the opportunity at hand to get (Artificial Satellite Program) straight from the maestro's mouth? -- to hear Willy Ley in person, letting his distinguished hair down with the s.f. aficionados. Who could sleep with the clown princes of the imagi-nation, Bob Bloch, Bob Tucker and Isaac Asimov, constantly tickling the funnybone? Who wanted shuteye with the projectoscope programs showing famous collectors' choicest items (First Editions, foreign editions, unpublished magazines, rare art work, doppelgangers, etc.) on a large screen, accompanied by miked descriptions by Sam Moskowitz, Dr. C. L. Barrett, and Weaver Wright, curator of Miskatonic University? Who wouldn't be ashamed to sleep in the presence of the British beauty, Pamela Bulmer, and what a shame it would have been to've slept and missed any of the whimsical humor of husband Ken, fan and author from England who was International Guest of Honour of the occasion. Run this list of favorite authors over your tongue: Damon Knight, Fritz Leiher, Mark Clifton, Judith Merril, Randall Garrett, Leigh Brackett, Edmond Hamilton, Rog ward E. Smith, E. Everett Evans, Lloyd Eshbach, Betsy Curtis, Thelma Hamm, James E. Gunn, Jim Harmon, Bob Silverberg, Wallace West, Frank Riley, Bob Bloch, and many others. Nearly every "pro" present was a guest of the University of Chicago ScienceFiction Club at an afternoon autograph party, and the ink flowed like wine, with many a fen bringing home a fine memento of the occasion in the form of a personally inscribed book. At one time at # a.m. conventioneers were in the midst of enjoying a revival of the classic fantasy film, Lost Horizon. The first nite of all, conventioneers were immediately put in a jovial mood by being shown the scientificomedy riot starring Alec Guiness, The Man in the White Suit . A feature of this Convention that I found especially pleasing was the showing of motion picture records of a number of past Conventions, in a program assembled by cameraman Bill Grant of Canada. (Was that sans-moustached, harlequin-glassed, twenty pounds slimmer guy I caught a glimmer of in the # Toronto films really me?) And vorite fan, at the banquet in Chicago in '#; and Hugo Gemsback, the Father of Science Fiction; and AE van Vogt, "the man in the bright suit" ; and Charles Beaumont and John Campbell and Margaret St Clair and Philip Jos# Farmer and more interesting people than you'd care to shake a slipstick at. And for me, a first glimpse at the goings-on of the first Convention I ever missed, the Nolacon: New Orleans' convention of #, the year my Dad died when I was enroute. fiction (and all its wolves are not of the wehr variety) walks great beauty. San Francisco gave us The Goddess Known as Jessyca: supple, silver reed of womanhood, bending in the wind of the sighs of her would-be wooers, her stricken swains. Jessyca the remote, the unapproachable, the dweller on the pink cloud. Jessyca -- unbelievably, a fan -- the unforgettable. That was #. Time rockets on. # : and from the mists of obscurity, from northeast of nowhere, drifting into the ken of fen and pro's alike from some unlikely miniscule pin-mark on the map of the United States, came (remember the name, and ask for an introduction at the next convention)... Ruth Landis ! She came, she saw, she conquered. Queen for a Day? Nay, Queen for the Convention. She moved always in the highest echelons. (It could probably be said she sat in the laps of the Gods!) All paid court to her; and if there were giants in the "good old days" of stf, before it put on a bow-tie and went sci-fi on us, there never were such living dolls reading our favorite literature. Twenty years ago we male fans would have welcomed a crosseyed gal with buck teeth (and not even balked at the cost of her teeth) just to know the companionship of a female fan. Today, in La Landis, we discover a Grace Kelly who's been reading s.f. for # years! Will wonders never cease! (We hope not.) For the good of all fankind (and the professionals who made her their ubiquitous mascot) may her tribe increase. Chicago I had the good fortune to have as a companion James E. Gunn, one of the newer voices in science fiction who's going places. Jim gave one of the most solid, most perceptive speeches at the Convention -- "The Function of Science Fiction". I asked him if, in his s.f. writings, he felt he had anything special to say or was pointing any way in particular, and got an answer that I liked : he said he was trying to write stories with an optimistic note and a belief in human beings. When Jim and I parted company, It was with the feeling on my part that if we had (Continued on page #) Illustrated by Mel Hunter What can a man do when he alone must decide the fate of Earth and all its people -- and when the choices offered him are slavery and death... S I T U AT I O N the observation room of the Sunward looking out at subspace. He was a medium-sized man with a trim squareness to him that suggested he had been in the military most of his life. He had a good deal of gold on his sleeve and a good deal of sliver in his hair, and he had discovered in his many years in the Space Navy that the two usually went hand in hand. In the background he could hear the noise and ordered confusion of the ship's bridge. But at the moment he paid it little attention, concentrating instead on the observation window. It was not the first time that he had stood thus, gazing at whatever lay beyond the shell of the ship. Almost every time he had put the Sunward through the dark shadow of subspace, he had deserted the bridge for at least a few moments to come and stare out the window. "God," he said out loud, repressing a shiver that wanted to crawl down his spine. "Perhaps 'God forsaken would be a better description, came a voice from behind him. The voice belonged to Dr. J. L. Broussard, the Sunward's senior psychologist. And although the two men were on more than casually friendly terms, Hawkins didn't turn to greet him. The fascination of the observation port seemed to obviate the normal requirements of courtesy. "At times like this I think you're right. 'God forsaken.' That's just what it is," Hawkins said. "Completely black, completely empty. You know, it frightens me every time we make the jump through it." A voice from the bridge called out, "Twelve minutes until zero. No noticeable deviations, Captain." "Very well," Hawkins said loudly enough to be heard on the bridge. "Perhaps it frightens all of us just a little," said Broussard. He leaned his oversized body against the observation room wall. His big, mild face had a relaxed look to it. "I wonder why it affects us that way, he added almost as if it were a casual afterthought, but his eyes had a too-shrewd look to them. "You're the psychologist. You tell me why," Hawkins said. He paused for just a moment, expecting Broussard to reply. But after a few seconds when the man gave him no conversational support, Hawkins continued. "For my part, I guess it frightens me because -- well, because a man seems to get lost out there. In normal space there are always stars around, no matter how distant they may be, and you feel that you've got direction and location. In subspace, all you've got is nothing -- and one hell of a lot of that." He pushed his cap back until it perched comfortably on the rear of his head. "It's incredible when you stop to think about it. An area -- an opening as big as the whole of our universe, big enough to pack every galaxy we've ever seen in it and still have lots of room left over. All that space -- and not a single atom of matter in it anywhere." Captain Hawkins shook his grayed head in wonder. "At least," he went on. "Not a single atom in it until we came barging in to use it as a short cut across our own universe." The man on the bridge called out, "Ten minutes until zero. No noticeable deviations, Captain." "Very well," Hawkins answered. Broussard shifted his considerable weight into a more comfortable position. "You feel rather strongly about this, don't you?" "That I do," said Hawkins. As much as he enjoyed an occasional conversation with the psychologist, Broussard's questions often got on his nerves. "Don't you think it's better we discovered subspace than if we were still back trying to beat the speed of light in our own universe?" Broussard asked him. "Oh, stop looking for a dangling neurosis somewhere, Broussard," Hawkins said, managing a smile. "You know quite well that I've got absolutely nothing at all against the use of subspace for 'rapid transportation,' so to speak. It's just that I'm the sort of man who likes to know where he's going all the time. And out here, in this stuff, you lose your sense of direction. There's no up, no down, no in between. It took spacemen a long time to get accustomed to the wild freedom they found out in the middle of normal space. But at least there you could always head for a star if you got lost. Out here..." He gestured futilely towards the blackness staring in at them from the window. They stood silently contemplating it for several moments. "Eight minutes until zero. No noticeable deviations, Captain," came the voice from the bridge again. "Very well," Captain Hawkins replied, breaking the brief silence between the two men. Then he went on, "Broussard, have you ever been out there in that stuff? Oh, I don't mean like now, in a ship or a rescue craft. I mean in a spacesuit, all by yourself." The psychologist shook his head. "No, I never have." He paused for just a second, then added, "What's it really like?" There were times, Hawkins thought, when even the phrasing of a simple question on Broussard's part carried a slight sting. But like the brief pain that accompanies the probing point of a hypodermic needle, the tiny barbs contained in the man's questions were soon forgotten. Hawkins smiled. "It's my own private guess of what hell will turn out to be. 'God forsaken,' did we say? That's just about it. We stopped to repair a ship once, and some of us had to go outside to work on it. I guess I was out there for less than three hours -- no more than that. And yet I was almost a madman by the time they hauled me back inside. I can't explain why." His voice trailed off into nothingness. "I guess it was just the blackness that did it." "Six minutes until zero. No noticeable deviations, Captain." "Very well." For the first time Hawkins turned to face the psychologist. "During my training at the Academy they locked me up in a closet once, just as a joke. I was without light for hours, but it was nothing like that out there. You should know, Broussard. Why does it look so much blacker in that window now than any other black I've ever seen?" Broussard looked the man over carefully before answering, wondering just exactly what sort of reply might be called for. "I think the reason is that you've got close to optimum conditions for it here in the observatory," he said momentarily. "You always get the blackest shade of black inside a ring of white light. Look at the window." Hawkins turned to do as directed. "There you've got a white frame surrounding the complete absence of light. That's just about as good as you can get. No wonder it looks so black to you." Hawkins shook his head, not so much in disbelief as in wonder. "As a matter of fact," the psychologist continued almost in a hurry. "If you stayed out in subspace all by yourself, with no ship near you and no light of your own, after a while it wouldn't seem black to you at all. You'd get cortical adaptation, and things would just look gray. And not too long after that, you'd stop 'seeing' entirely, as we think of seeing. Or, as a friend of mine once said, under those conditions you'd 'see' as much with your elbows as you would with your eyes. Funny, isn't it? We usually think of black as being the absence of light. And yet, in order to 'see' black, we've got to have at least a little light around every once in a while." The watchman on the bridge droned out the time again. "Four minutes until zero. No noticeable deviations, Captain." Allen Hawkins gave a large sigh, then readjusted the cap on his head. He had the feeling that Broussard's little lecture on science, while factually accurate, was delivered more to obscure the facts than to illuminate. "I'd better get to the bridge now, Broussard. Not that they really need me, but... He left the sentence dangling, then turned and walked briskly out of the observation room. gave the dials and the illuminated screens a rapid, practiced glance and then sat down in his chair to one side of the operations panel. There was actually no known danger to this shifting back and forth from one space to another. No ship had ever encountered any difficulties whatsoever in doing so; there had never been an accident of any kind during transition. The whole thing was as completely automatic as man could make it, and apparently entirely safe. But still Hawkins had never made the shift one way or another without feeling a telltale tightening of muscles deep inside him, and without wondering just what would happen if they got stuck in all that darkness. "One minute, Captain," the watch officer reminded him. Hawkins nodded in reply, his face illuminated by the flashing lights on the control panel in front of him. He watched their changing signals calmly with knowing eyes. "Thirty seconds... all drives off," sang out a voice. The hands on the clock crept slowly around the dial. "Zero..." There was no sound, no feeling, no jerk nor jar, no noise to mark the transition -- nothing at all different from the moment before except a slight increase in the total light flux in the room. Stars. Captain Allen Hawkins smiled softly to himself. Stars... something to cling to, he whispered under his breath. "Bridge from Navigation," came a voice close to his ear. "Go ahead, Navigation," he said after pressing the communications button. "Looks like we hit it right on the nose, Captain," the Navigator told him. "Can't tell just yet, of course, until I feed the positions of the nearest stars into Betsy and she decides where we are. But it looks good from here, and if I'm right, the one we're hunting for is about eight o'clock high from the nose of the ship as she sits now. I'll plot a course there right now. Do you want to wait until Betsy decides that's the one, or shall we take a chance and head for it first?" The Navigator always asked the question, but he knew what the answer would be. "We'll start just as soon as you can give us the course," Hawkins replied. "Aye, aye. Captain," the Navigator replied. Hawkins turned to the officer on duty. "Mr. Smith, you will remain as you are until you receive the course from the Navigator. Once you have it, you will get underway immediately." "Aye, aye, Captain," Smith replied. "I'll be in my cabin if you want me," Hawkins said as he left the bridge. He was rather tired and he meant to go straight to bed, but somehow he found himself stopping by the observation room en route. Broussard was still there, looking out of the window at the stars. "Lovely, aren't they, Broussard?" Hawkins said. "So you feel the stars are lovely?" the psychologist answered slowly. "Yes, I do. They give us light, and hope for the future, and more than that, a frame of reference when we fly through the dark reaches of our universe. They're more than beautiful -- they're necessary." As he turned to leave, Hawkins chuckled to himself. Just let the head-shrinker try to read a neurosis into that! It took them three weeks from the day they arrived back in normal space to make sure that they had found a sun with planets, and another three weeks from then to make landfall on the second of the four satellites this particular solar system had to offer. Almost from the very beginning they were elated with their luck, for the planet seemed to be a first class find. The Sunward and her crew had been exploring this section of space for more than six years, and out of the thirty-eight systems they had investigated, this was the first that offered any promise of eventual human habitation. Man had been in space less then one hundred years. At first he had thrown himself towards the stars with crude rocket-driven craft A few years later he had invented a type of atomic drive which allowed him to approach the speed of light. But it was the discovery of the subspace technique of travel which had theoretically given him the whole universe to live in. There were drawbacks, however, and they were important ones. To tear himself from the matrix of normal space he still needed huge machines, and probably always would. This meant the building of exceedingly large space vessels, like the Sunward , which could contain not only the equipment necessary to propel him into the blackness of subspace, but which also could be equipped with the mammoth control mechanisms necessary to regulate the changeover. The switch to subspace could never be made near the surface of a planet, for the field forces generated during the change had farflung effects and were quite capable, even under tightest control, of tearing loose a huge chunk of a planet and dropping it into subspace with the ship. Big ships meant big money, and even now there were fewer than a thousand of the large exploration craft in operation. Each ship could average fewer than ten new worlds a year. So while man had taken a lease on the universe, it seemed that at his present rate of exploration a great many centuries would pass before he finished the charting of even the stars in his own back yard. But if at times he became discouraged at the immensity of the task, there were always moments of great joy which helped to spur a man on. The men of the Sunward named the new star Clarion, and the habitable planet they called Trellis. It was the second of three large and one very small planets which circled Clarion. The Sunward spent more than two weeks circling over Trellis, making maps and checking the atmosphere. Then the council of scientists on board picked a landing site and Captain Hawkins brought the ship down on the spot they had chosen. Exactly twentvseven days from the hour they landed, the council voted unanimously that Trellis was safe for human habitation, and Allen Hawkins gave the orders to have the hatches opened to the Trellian air. The Captain, as was customary, was the first man to set foot on the soil. He led the brief ceremonies that claimed the world as Earth's own and then planted the Terran flag. He also took the customary measure of declaring it a ship's holiday, and even threw out the first baseball when the inevitable game started up later in the afternoon. But he didn't stay to watch, preferring to stroll around the landscape by himself for a little while. He had been walking for a little more than an hour, traveling in a wide circle around the ship, when he came upon Dr. Broussard, sitting quietly under a shady tree, a book in one hand and a container of beer in the other. The beer looked good and cold, and the shade looked comfortable. "Mind if I join you?" Hawkins asked, and since he was Captain of the ship, scarcely waited for an invitation before he sat down and opened himself a beer. It tasted as good as it had looked, and Hawkins soon found himself in an expansive mood. "Tell me, Broussard," he said good-naturedly. "How come you aren't out snooping around, making sure that the crew's libidos aren't acting up or something." Cocking an ear towards the distant ball field, rife with the excited noise that always accompanies such a game, Broussard replied, "It sounds to me as if the crew is getting about as much libidinal discharge as I could hope for under the circumstances. That being the case, I saw no reason why the ship's alienist shouldn't have a little time off." Hawkins leaned back comfortably against the tree. "Alienist. That's a pretty strange word these days, Broussard. Used to be what they called psychiatrists in England back in the old days, right?" Hawkins was of vaguely English descent and felt it behooved him to know such things. "That's right. They revived the term briefly a hundred years ago when we first got out into space, because they thought that psychologists might be needed for the first contacts with alien cultures." A slight frown came over the man's face. "The word's fallen into disuse again of late, however," he continued. Captain Hawkins grunted in assent. "No aliens, eh?" "That's right. No aliens. Thousands of new worlds, thousands upon thousands of new species, but not one of them intelligent enough to hold a candle to our earthside chimpanzee. But still they go on outfitting each of the exploration vessels with psychologists, and outfitting all of the psychologists for the double task of soothing the crew's psyches and making contact with mythical intelligent races that so far we've only dreamed about." Broussard emptied his container of beer and with a single vicious movement threw it as far away from him as he could. "I must say, however, that of late they've been spending more time training us to be mind doctors than to be official greeters to unknown cultures." Suddenly Broussard straightened up. "But why should you twit me about deserting my work today. I saw you throw out the first baseball. How come you didn't stay for the game? Surely that falls under the province of a Captain's job." Allen Hawkins smiled. "I learned long ago, Broussard, that there are times when the presence of the Commanding Officer has an undesired influence on the spirits of the crew. After all, as Captain of the Sunward , I can't very well take part in the game itself. Who'd dare to strike me out when I came to bat?" He stopped to think about that for a moment. "Or, maybe I should have said, I don't think anybody would dare to strike me out." "Ah, yes, the Father Figure' Broussard said laughing. "That's right. So I can't play. Nor can I umpire, for half the fun of baseball is arguing with the umpire and I couldn't allow any of that. And if I just watched without playing the game itself, a lot of the crew might think that I felt myself too high and mighty to take part in their proletarian type of recreation. So I'm damned if I do and damned if I don't. So what did I do...?" "You left the field," Broussard answered, lighting up a cigarette after offering the other man one. "That's right, I left the baseball field and went walking." "That's not quite what I meant when I said 'you left the field " Broussard went on. "It's a psycho logical term, first used by Lewin many centuries ago. Any time a man is in a conflict situation, faced with two or more alternatives that he finds it difficult to choose among, he may solve his problem by choosing none of them # Hawkins stretched his legs out restfully on the grass in front of him. As he thought about it, there had been few times in the past when he had given the psychologist his head and let the man talk. Probably, Hawkins thought to himself, Broussard spends most of his time listening to the petty confessions of all of us and never gets the opportunity to unload a bit himself. He caught himself wondering just who on Earth confesses the Pope... And so he uttered the magical words, "I don't think I quite understand..." Broussard scarcely needed the encouragement to continue. "Lewin liked to think of psychological situations as approximating physical situations. He spoke in terms of valences and attractions, of vectors and forces operating through psychological distances. For example, let's consider the case of a child put into a long hallway. At one end of the hall is a large, fierce dog. At the other end is an ugly man with a big switch. We tell the child that he has to go to one end of the hall or the other. This becomes an 'avoidance-avoidance' situation in the Lewinian terminology. Both the man with the switch and the fierce dog carry negative valences -- that means that the child actually doesn't want to approach either of them -- and the closer the child comes to one of them, the more powerfully it repels him. Just as with magnets -- the closer you bring one negative charge to another negative charge, the more powerful is the force of repulsion." Captain Hawkins smiled. It wasn't going to be as bad as he had feared. "What does all this have to do with baseball?" "We'll get back to home plate in just a moment. But first, let's continue with the child. We put him in the hallway, tell him to go to one end or the other, and then we just sit back and watch. At first he stands about as close to the center of the hall as he can, assuming that the two negative valences are about of equal strength. He's undecided -- can't make up his mind which is worse, the man or the dog. So we prompt him to action -- shock him or tell him that he has to keep moving. Then he begins to move back and forth, vacillating between the two undesirable objects. So we apply more and more pressure to try to force him to a decision. But the closer he moves to the dog, for example, the more distasteful it becomes, and the less dangerous does the man seem to be. So the child turns around and starts towards the man. But here the situation is repeated. It's a beautiful example of a conflict situation." Giving vent to a well-disciplined snort, Captain Hawkins said, "And eventually the child either gets well switched or badly bitten, eh?" "No, that's where you're wrong. Eventually the child tries to escape from the hallway altogether. Sometimes he'll try to climb the walls, or break down a door, or anything like that which will release him from what has become an impossible psychological environment." "So," said Hawkins. "I think you left me stranded on first base." Broussard laughed. "Pardon the sermon, Captain. What I was trying to point out was that the baseball game represented just about the same sort of thing to you as the hallway did to the child. Any time a human being is faced with two impossible decisions like that, he usually ends up by 'leaving the field' of conflict altogether. Nowadays we can even predict the exact field forces necessary to bring on this type of behavior." "And what do you predict I'm going to do right now?" Hawkins asked with a bit of a laugh in his voice. "That's an easy one. I predict you're going to ask for another beer -- and that I'll give it to you. No conflict there." He opened a container that chilled itself automatically as he handed it to his superior officer. Hawkins blew the foam from it and then took a long, satisfying swallow. "There are times when I'm glad I'm just an uncomplicated space officer," he said presently. Broussard grinned. "Sorry if I seemed to be giving you a lecture, Captain. I'm afraid you would have enjoyed a good, healthy discussion of Freud much more. My own particular problem is that I'm much more interested in thinking about the remote possibilities of man's encountering new types of intelligences than I am in playing father confessor to a bunch of space rats. Back on Earth the social psychologists felt that Lewin's work offered a fruitful means of analyzing the motivational components in any alien society we might encounter. I guess my trotting out the vector charts was just a neat example of wishful thinking." Captain Allen Hawkins didn't bother to answer the remark for some time. He was too busy watching something move slowly towards them across the grassy plain. Finally he halfwhispered to his companion, "Don't put those charts away too soon, Broussard. You finally may have a chance to use them." and yellow lights flashed insistently in front of the man, demanding his attention. The clattering noise of a computer working at high speed added to the unholy din of the small spaceship's control room. Surveyor Lan Sur ran his deft fingers rapidly over the studs on the control panel in front of him. He scarcely looked at the controls as he manipulated them, concentrating instead on the screens before him -- screens which showed the attack patterns of the seven large warships that surrounded him. One of the attacking enemy ships loomed incredibly large directly ahead of him. Lan Sur's fingers hesitated, and then, at precisely the proper second, pressed the firing studs. The scout ship seemed to dance lightly upward as it passed high above the larger, slower enemy craft. Lan Sur whirled his ship around just in time to witness the total disintegration of the enemy. "One down," he thought, but took no particular pride in his accomplishment. There were still six left. The enemy regrouped, spreading out into a cone-like formation. He knew the trick well, and aimed his ship to make its next pass high above the open mouth of this formation. But the enemy opened up the top of the cone as fast as Lan Sur tried to avoid it. He fired a warning salvo and tucked his defensive screens in tight around him. But the uppermost enemy ship incredibly picked up more speed, sliding off into an extremely intricate maneuver. Lan Sur knew that if it could hold to this path, it would pass several miles above him, neatly sandwiching him between the enemy vessels below. He could have turned aside at once, but that would have been an admission of possible defeat, and he could never admit defeat. If he could beat the other ship to the topping maneuver, he would destroy not only it, but the ships at the small end of the cone as well when he came crashing down on them from above. For just a moment he felt certain that he could succeed. The scout ship vibrated tensely as it hurled itself forward. The red lights on the control panel doubled in number, then tripled. The computer roared instructions so rapidly that he could hardly keep up with them. The warning bells went mad with ringing. "I think I can make it," he told himself. But he refused to become excited. He had come this close to victory before, and had still failed. Now he saw he was gaining on the enemy ship, but it was a thin margin of safety indeed. The computer screamed with danger signals as the huge craft came closer and closer. Lan Sur leaned forward slightly in his seat, a little strain showing on his usually relaxed face. To his surprise, he found himself saying aloud, "Yes, I think I can." But he did not. Suddenly the enemy craft shot by above him and belched forth a thick burst of light. The huge black warships immediately beneath him echoed the call, catching his smaller, fleeter ship in a double barrage. And it was all over. The red lights on the control panel blinked out quickly, one by one. The warning bells ceased their claxons, the computer settled down to a quiet hum. The screens went blank. A thin piece of tape spewed forth from the computer. It read, "This scout ship utterly annihilated. End of problem." Lan Sur looked the tape over sourly. "Damn," he said, leaning back in his seat. He tore the tape into little pieces and deposited them angrily in the reclaim box. Reluctantly he pressed the "Analysis" button on the computer. The machine would issue him a complete dissection of the whole mock war game, pointing out with deadly accuracy the mistakes he had made. "Damn," he said again, thinking over the past battle. He got up from die control panel and walked over to his relaxation chair. Sitting down, he took a small bit of food from a container and began chewing on it viciously. It wasn't really so bad that he lost the engagement, he told himself. The pre-battle odds were greatly against him. And as often as he had tried it, he had never been able to take on seven enemy ships and still survive. Sometimes it seemed an almost impossible task to him. However, he had a deep desire to solve the problem, because the computer told him it might be solvable if he took the proper course of action. Evidently, it would take a lot more work, a great deal more study on his part before he found the solution. "But time is something I have plenty of," he said aloud, stretching out comfortably in the chair. For several hours he puzzled over the thing, taking time out to digest the taped analysis of his mistakes, and then attacked the problem afresh. Eventually, out of sheer exhaustion, he slipped off into a deep, restful sleep, quite confident that the next time he tried the sevenship problem, or at most the time following that... Lan Sur awoke to quietness. He stretched his lean, lithe legs, slowly, returning to normal awareness as he did so. Once he was completely awake, he sat down in front of the control panel again. A single amber light betuned from the board. While he had been asleep, the scout ship had come out of its C # drive and had slowed to a stop. They had reached their immediate destination, and since he was asleep, the computer had simply turned on the protective screens around the ship and had begun a survey of the sun system they had arrived at. He pressed a button on the computer and then leaned back to digest the information that the machine began feeding him at once. The sun was of the A#Lu type, just as had been forecast before his voyage. It had three large inner planets and a tiny fourth much too far away from the solar furnace and much too small to be of any practical value. Lan Sur read the report carefully, noting with pleasure certain of the facts presented him. He was in the midst of an interesting section concerning the chemical composition of the atmosphere on the second of the planets when a small bell on the computer rang and the machine became silent for just a second or two, then began pouring out material at a furious rate. Lan Sur, who had been yards of tape behind in his reading, dropped the atmosphere discussion and began to read the new information being spewed forth. A frown crossed his face as he read the first few words, "Alien contact established..." He hoped this new development would not take him away from his games for too long a time. The computer had detected the emanation of modulated energy waves coming from the second planet. Immediately it had withdrawn its wide-flung detector beams and had concentrated fully upon the source of the waves. Lan Sur reset the computer so that only a very small part of the huge machine would carry on the routine work of new investigation, while the greater part would be put to work in an attempt to decode what was obviously a language being broadcast in some obsolete manner. He noted with pride that the aliens, whoever they might be, had not at the moment reached the point of development where C # communication was available to them, but were still limited to the raw speed of light for the transmission of messages, and hence, he felt sure, for the transmission of space ships too. This meant, he knew, that he had probably stumbled onto a race of beings still new to the reaches of space who would be helpless in the face of even his own lightly armed scout ship. However, according to patrol instructions, he activated a switch that relayed all pertinent information by means of a sealed C # beam back to the nearest Dakn Patrol base, and put in a formal call for the presence of Patrol battleships. One way or another, they would be needed... It took the computer less than a day and a half, as Lan Sur figured time, to break the language of the aliens discovered on the second planet. The Surveyor spent this time working feverishly on a new idea he had for the solution of the seven-ship problem, and was quite upset when the computer finished its problem of decoding the new tongue before Lan Sur had worked out all the details of his latest attack on the mock war games. Reluctantly he put himself into a light trance, during which the machine taught him the new language. He did not actually learn to think in the new tongue, for that would have imposed limiting strictures on his mental processes. Rather, his mind was turned into a kind of translating factory. He had the freedom to think in the terms and in the concepts that he was accustomed to, and his mind simply expressed these thoughts as best it could in the newly-learned way of speaking. The computer had also arrived at an incredibly clear knowledge of the socio-politico-psychological structure of the new civilization, but aside from a brief glance at some of the more intriguing points, Lan Sur ignored this information and simply relayed it along to the Galactic base where social scientists could pore over it in their own bemused leisure. For his tasks Lan Sur hardly felt that he needed it. Once Lan Sur had memorized the language, he put his scout ship under a screen of complete invisibility and landed it some few miles away from the space ship the aliens were using as their permanent base. He let the computer drink up what additional information it required to make sure both that the planetary conditions were suitable to his own particular chemical make-up, and that the aliens were indeed as impotent as his previous estimates had seemed to indicate. Once the computer gave him its blessing, he walked out into the bright planetary sunlight. sard sat up puzzled. "What do you mean, don't put away my Lewinian vector charts too soon? I may have a chance to use them on whom?" Captain Allen Hawkins simply stared straight ahead of him, his lips forming unanswerable questions. Broussard took his cue from the man's head and stared too. And then he understood. The alien, for from its dress alone it obviously was an alien, was still quite a distance away from them. It came walking towards them with a kind of protective sparkle about it -- and even from that distance they could sense a feeling of power about the man. "Man?" Broussard caught himself thinking. Yes, it did seem very much like a man -- not only like a human, but like a masculine human. But immediately Broussard told himself that this might not be the case. True, humanoid it was, but because it displayed a certain lack of the more obvious female sexual characteristics it did not follow that it was male, "Why, they could even have ten different sexes for all we know," Broussard thought to himself. "I think it's coming towards us" Hawkins said quietly. Broussard watched the alien move a few more yards and then agreed. Hawkins activated a small radio that he carried in one of his shirt y pockets. "Hello, Communications," he spoke rapidly into the microphone. "This is Hawkins. Put me through to the Bridge at once. And make sure you record every word that I say." The words "Aye, aye, Captain," were forthcoming immediately from the tiny loudspeaker. The Captain rated a special communications channel that was guarded by the radio shack at all times, and it came as no surprise to Hawkins that the reply was prompt He had expected it to be. "Bridge here, go ahead." "This is Captain Hawkins, Bridge. Who's the Duty Officer?" Hawkins knew who the man was, but asked to give the man a chance to realize fully that the Captain was aware with whom he was speaking. "Lieutenant Medboe, Captain, ready for instructions." Hawkins thought for just a moment and then answered. "Mr. Medboe, the information that I am about to pass along to you is not to leave the Bridge under any circumstances. As soon as I finish, you will contact the radio shack and make certain that what I have said, if it has been monitored, is not passed along from that particular point either. Do you understand me." Medboe's voice sounded a little puzzled, "Of course, Captain. Your instructions will be followed to the letter." "Now then," Hawkins continued. "You might as well know at once that I think we've made contact with an alien race. I don't know what this means to you personally, but to the human race it means a great deal and we can under no circumstances risk the occurrence of any incident. You will therefore send someone to find Commander Petri and inform him that as Executive Officer, he will be in charge of the ship until I return to it. And while you are doing that, you will summon all the men to return to the ship at once. You may not give them the real reason -- tell them that there is a bad storm coming and that I have ordered them all inside. It is imperative that none of them realizes the true reason. Do you understand?" Medboe's voice sounded almost hurt. "Aye, aye, Captain," he said. "Good. Once everyone is back inside the ship, have Petri summon all officers not on watch and all scientists to the large meeting hall. They will be given a chance to observe and listen to the contact as it is made. Which reminds me -- have the communications department set up a long range television camera on me at once, and pipe the image down into the hall. You will have them record both sight and sound for later use. You will also inform Petri that a state of emergency exists as of this moment by my personal order, and that if necessary he is to blast off from the planet without making any attempt either to protect or rescue me. And once it has been established that we are in fact dealing with an alien culture, Navy Headquarters must be informed immediately via subspace radio." Hawkins wanted to make sure that in the event the entire ship was captured, Earth would know that an alien contact had been made and could take steps to protect itself. He only wished, now that he thought of it, that he could have taken more adequate steps to protect the men and the ship. But for the moment the Sunward and her crew would have to remain where they were and as they were. And if the alien had not attacked them up to that point, perhaps no attack would be made at all. Hawkins wanted to tell Medboe a thousand other things -- simple, obvious things that surely both Medboe and Petri would be cognizant of. But, as always, the man who had to delegate responsibility simply had to depend on the perspicacity of the men to whom he gave the power. "Any questions?" Hawkins asked after a brief pause. "I don't believe so, Captain," Medboe answered. Hawkins could tell from the sound of the man's voice that he had hundreds of things he would have liked to ask, but none of them were of the type that he could have expected his superior officer to answer. "Good," Hawkins replied formally. "One more thing. You will under no circumstances attempt to contact me on this radio set -- there's no need in letting the alien know any more about us or our abilities than we absolutely have to." "Right, Captain," came the obedient answer. Hawkins turned the switch to the "Sustained Talk" position and informed the Officer of the Deck of his actions. Then he turned to Broussard. "Anything you have to add to all that?" he asked. The psychologist indicated a negative by a shake of his head. "Very well, Mr. Medboe. You may carry out your orders," Hawkins said with a sigh. Then he turned to Broussard again. "Well, Louie. I guess it's up to you from here on out. You're the alienist." And with that, Hawkins reluctantly relinquished completely his normal command of the situation. During the time that Captain Hawkins had been giving his orders, Broussard had been deep in thought, paying only scant attention to die instructions that the other man had passed along. The psychologist's mind had been racing over the possibilities of this first contact, and more than once during the brief period of time, it had dwelt on his own particular fears that he would not be up to the encounter. "I think you had better give the radio to me," Broussard said. "I'll probably be closer to the alien during the first stages of contact at least, and certainly I should be doing most of the talking." The statement made sense to Hawkins, and he passed the device over without comment. Broussard tucked it away in one of his pockets. "I don't think we should bother walking towards him," Broussard said a moment later, answering an unspoken question. "He's obviously coming toward us and it would seem better if we weren't too eager." Broussard felt no need to describe the alien over the radio since by this time the communications division back on board the Sunward would have set up their long range television cameras. Captain Hawkins shifted about on his feet a bit like a boxer doing warmup footwork prior to a battle. "I wonder where he's put his space ship," Broussard said. Hawkins looked puzzled. "How do you know he's got one?" he asked. "Well, it's just a hunch. But unless I miss my guess, that shining air the -- the -- " Broussard groped for the right noun, then fell back again on a sheer perceptual analysis. "The shining air the man coming towards us has is a defensive screen of some sort. And we've certainly found no evidence on Trellis of any civilization at all, much less one so advanced that it could dream up gadgets like that. I figure he must be from somewhere else. Maybe he's just a visitor here too, like u." Hawkins inwardly admitted the logic of the reasoning. As the alien came closer, they could both see why they had instinctively felt from the first that it was of the male gender. The creature's hair was cut a little longer than men wore theirs back on Earth, but this was almost the only difference. The alien was a bit taller than either of them, but not beyond the limits produceable by the human race. His shoulders were the widest part of his body, and formed the broad top of the inverted triangular shape that most human men admired. His clothes were of some peculiar, clinging material, but the bottom half of his body was fitted out in a close approximation of Earthside trousers. The man was handsome even by their own standards of masculine beauty. "Well," said Hawkins. "This is it. Man is no longer 'alone. # " Broussard realized suddenly that the other man was just as nervous as he himself was. "No, man is no longer alone," Broussard replied. And then he added, "But neither is he" The alien was less than one hundred yards away when Broussard said quietly, "I don't think we'd better talk any more. Let's just stand here and wait for him to make the first move," Lan Sur walked towards the two aliens at a comfortable rate of speed. When he was still some distance off the computer back on his scout ship informed him of the first of the messages going back and forth from one of the men to the ship, and then of the gradual withdrawal of the rest of the ship's crew to the sanctuary of the Sunward. It was with no surprise at all that he listened to the computer, as , it did a remote physical and chemical analysis of the aliens. Eons ago the Dakn people had come to the conclusion, first in theory and then in fact, that intelligent life capable of reaching the stars had to fall within the humanoid pattern. The aliens confronting him were well within the theoretical tolerance limits on every count. But still it amused him to see the slight obesity of one of the men and the thick body hair of the other. These were two minor points of difference between the races. At exactly the right psychological distance from the two aliens, Lan Sur stopped. He was quite close enough to be heard and understood, but not so close that his physical presence suggested too much of a threat. He waited just long enough before speaking. "It is customary in your culture to begin with introductions," he said in a strong voice. "I am Lan Sur, possessed of the rank of Senior Surveyor in the Galactic Patrol of the Dakn Empire. I welcome you officially to the communion of the stars."' Lan Sur could almost feel the sinking sensation inside the larger of the two aliens when he began to speak to them in their own tongue. It amused him to think that these two had probably expected to begin by drawing pictures in the dirt. Well, they would learn. "You should know at once that the Dakn Empire comprises some general humanoid characteristics as obtain in your race. We populate planets on some hundred thousand suns, most of which lie much further toward the opposite end of the galaxy than does the system in which we find ourselves at the moment. We have explored great reaches of the universe, but this is the first time we have penetrated as far into this particular district as this star you call Clarion. That explains why our races have never before come into contact." The two aliens leaned forward a little on their feet, as caught up in his words as children might be when told a new and fascinating story. "The Dakn Empire is the only other political system that exists in this entire galaxy, as far as we know." Lan Sur paused for a moment, to let the significance of his words sink in. "There have been others, of course, but they soon passed under our control. Just as your civilization will now pass under our control." He read the sudden, stark fear that appeared in their eyes correctly without needing the affirming echo from the computer. "The Dakn Empire has learned that whenever it discovers a new civilization, it must absorb this new culture immediately. There is no other choice. And your race must follow the pattern of the thousands we have encountered in the past. There is no choice. As of this moment, you and your people are, from our point of view, just as much a part of our Empire as our own home planets. This does not appeal to you, I know. But there is no other way." The computer informed him that the Sunward had brought all of its gun turrets to bear on him, but Lan Sur ignored the fact as being irrelevant. He continued. "No, you do not have a choice about becoming a part of our system. But you do have a choice about the method by which this action will be taken." The involuntary sigh that one of the aliens gave briefly amused him. The alien would find that the sigh of relief was a short one. "The choice is this -- either you will join with us peacefully, in which case the whole period of transition will take less than one of your years. Or..." He let the word dangle momentarily before his booming voice continued. "Or, if you choose to oppose us, the transition time will take even less than that. We will simply destroy you and all of your worlds. "You have no alternatives." The alien's voice grew louder. "You will want to know what absorption into our system will mean to you. By now you will surely have realized how far superior we are to you in every way, and I include specifically the factor of intelligence in this statement. My analysis of your potential intellectual and rational powers shows me that you are not capable of contesting on an equal basis with any of the other races that comprise our Empire. You are the lowest of the low, and as such, your race will be put into a slave category. We always have room for more slaves." The two aliens in front of him seemed in a state of shock. Lan Sur felt he might as well finish the thing off and get it over with. "If you choose to come with us peacefully, what will happen is this: We will take over all of your worlds at once, evacuating your people from them in less than a month. Your race will be spread out over our Empire, sent to the places where they are needed the most. "Of course you will not be allowed to retain either your own personalities or your memories. As slaves you would scarcely need them. So they will be stripped from you en route to your new homes, and suitable new slave personalities will be implanted in your minds. You find this thought distasteful I know, but it is the only logical action we can take. You will be bom again, so to speak, knowing our language, feeling at home in our way of life and not retaining even a shred of your old patterns of culture. This is the simplest, most efficient way in which your race can become a part of our much larger scheme of things. "If you do not choose to come peacefully..." again Lan Sur stopped for dramatic effect, "the warships I have already summoned, coming at the square of the speed of light, will search out every planet, every world in this whole sector, and will utterly annihilate every solar system you have contaminated. We have, in the past, met obstinate races who tried to resist our rule. The results were rather spectacular from an astronomical point of view. Perhaps your scientists have wondered what caused the nova of stars, or even the explosions of whole regions of space. Now you have the answer. We would hate to destroy your race, but if you resist us, we have no choice." A strange, intense smile came over Lan Sur's face. "Our history relates of one race that tried to avoid its destiny. These peoples scattered to the four winds in millions of ships in their attempt to hide from us." Fire lighted the alien's eyes. "It took more than a thousand of your years to track them all down, and we covered more than half the galaxy in doing so. It was a glorious thing. Now they are dead. All of them." Slowly the smile died away. Lan Sur looked back at the two Earthlings before him. "You will see the necessity for all of this when you have exhausted your emotional reactions to this information and are capable of thinking logically again. In the long run it matters little to any of us which action we are forced to take. But because I realize that a race as untutored as yours is, cannot be expected to control its emotions in such a situation, I will not demand an immediate answer from you. I will give you more than ample time in which to think the problem through. "You have exactly twenty-four hours in which to make up your minds." Academy, Captain Allen Hawkins had been a boxer, and a good one. Most of his fights he had won easily and decisively. The few that he lost had been close matches and split decisions. Then had come the day when he had persuaded himself to fight outside his own weight and experience classifications, and he had matched himself against a classmate much larger than himself. Hawkins still remembered that fight at times. After the first round he had been completely dazed, scarcely conscious of his surroundings. Again and again he found himself lying stretched out on the canvas and had to force himself back to his feet to re-enter the fray. The fight terminated rather suddenly in the third round when Hawkins went down to the canvas for a full count. All of this had happened years before, but the emotions that gripped the man now, as he stood facing the incredible alien from the center of the galaxy -- these emotions reminded him of that fight. He felt now as he had felt when he regained consciousness in the dressing room -- a little out of his senses, the wind still knocked out of him, and emotionally completely stunned. The fact that Lan Sur had spoken perfect English had been the first blow. Every sentence that the alien had spoken was like a sharp jab, a sudden punch to a vital area. As in his boxing days, after a few brief moments of listening, Hawkins had stopped thinking with his brain -- and had begun thinking with his stomach. But he was completely open and unguarded for the Sunday punch. "You have exactly twenty-four hours in which to make up your minds." The three men stood facing each other for at least a full minute, none of them speaking. Broussard recovered his voice before Hawkins could and said feebly, "You can't mean it." Lan Sur's face gave no expression of emotion. "I realized that you would be incapable of comprehending what I have said so soon after I had said it. This is why I am giving you a length of time in which to make your decision. But you might as well realize that this high emotional index rating of your race is one of the main reasons you rate so low. It is a trait that we will have to breed out of your race." Hawkins came to life suddenly, reacting violently, his emotional control shattered. He almost shouted at the alien, "If we're in such bad shape, why can't you just go off and leave us alone? You've got all the rest of the universe. Why can't you just leave us alone in our little corner of it?" "If you were not so emotionally aroused at the moment, you would understand why we cannot 'leave you alone,' as you put it," the alien told him calmly. "It is completely impossible for two differing cultures to exist in this galaxy, as large as it is. Eventually the two cultures would have to come into contact, and this would cause friction. We do not care for friction, and we always seek to avoid it. By forcing you to join us now -- or by destroying you if you refuse -- we make absolutely sure that your race will never be the cause of any friction to us in the future." "Friction?" asked Broussard slowly. "If we allowed you to go your own way, your population would expand and you would be forced to take over more and more of this area of the universe. We have our own plans for this part of the galaxy which do not include fighting constant wars with you for the possession of each new planetary system that one of us sees fit to colonize." The alien spoke to them as he might have spoken to children. Hawkins refused to abandon the train of thought. "But we could promise to give up all our worlds except our own home planet. You could have all the rest." Lan Sur shook his head. "At the present moment, you will promise anything to rid yourself of the painful necessity of making the decision that I have demanded of you. You up to your promise of retiring to your home planet, never to voyage forth again. But your children and their children would grow discontent and restless. Eventually, either a hundred or a thousand or a hundred thousand years from now, you would come forth to challenge us again." Lan Sur's face grew a trifle grim. "And next time you would be better equipped and stronger. You would be able to put up a better fight than you can at the moment." Then he smiled. "Oh, of course, the Dakn Empire would win eventually. We always do. But we would be back at exactly the same point that we are at right now. We would be forced to absorb you into our Empire, or to destroy you utterly. And, in the meantime, we would, of necessity, be forced to keep a careful watch on everything you did." He shook his head. "No, you must realize that we cannot tolerate anything but absolute surrender. You have my terms. You must make your decision. There is nothing more to say." Hawkins felt the numbing hand of deep fear within him. Like a losing boxer, he fought for any advantage that he might be able to take. "But, good Lord, man" he said quickly. "You don't understand the situation at all. Twenty-four hours isn't nearly enough time to make a decision that will affect our entire population. We can't even inform our home base of what's going on in that length of time, much less get a message back from them. And this is the sort of thing that would have to be submitted to our population as a whole, for them to decide. We're just a very, very small part of our race. Why, we... we don't have the authority to make a decision that would affect the people back home. You must give us more time." "Your complete lack of insight amazes me, even though I expected it," the alien said. "Surely you must understand that the more time I give you, the more time you have to prepare your physical defenses. I am just as aware as you are that, lacking the C # communications methods, it is impossible for you to contact your home planet in the time that I have allowed you. But the war ships that I have already summoned will be here shortly, and even before they arrive, there is much that I must do to ready you and your people for the change if you decide to come with us. If you do not decide to come with us, then I must begin the search for your home planet, so that it may be destroyed. In either event, the sooner your choice is made, the better it is for me. Already I have allowed you more time than is actually necessary for you to overcome your emotion and to think the problem through logically." "But I simply haven't got the authority to make such a choice!" Hawkins found himself shouting. "Can't you understand that?" Lan Sur paused a moment to let the other man regain some of his composure. Then he said simply but firmly, "I am in control here now. I have the authority, and I delegate it to you. You must decide for everyone." Broussard's reactions were perhaps a little less emotionally tinged than might have been thought from his facial reactions. He had held back what he felt to be a highly pertinent question until he felt that the alien was preparing to conclude the interview. He asked it now. "You seem to know a great many things about us, Lan Sur. And we seem to know very little about you. In a sense, this is strong evidence of your race's superiority. And yet you cannot really expect us to capitulate our entire culture to yours without giving us very conclusive proof that you are able to carry out your threats. After all, we are a large ship full of fighting men, and you seem to be one man all by yourself. What is to keep us from..." Deliberately the psychologist let the question hang uncompleted. Lan Sur smiled. "At least you respond in a semi-logical fashion. The point is well taken, and if you had not brought it up now, I would have had to do so myself at a later time. I am therefore prepared to demonstrate to you the strength of our technology. You two will return to your ship, and I will remain here. You will then, for the next two hours, have the opportunity to attack me by any means you see fit. I will simply defend myself, without endangering you or your ship in any fashion. When you have discovered that even as undefended as I appear to be at the moment, all of your weapons are powerless to harm me, perhaps you will understand that I can carry out my threats if I so choose to." The alien gestured with his hand. "And now, you must return to your ship. During the two hours at which I place myself at your mercy, you may naturally maneuver your vessel as you desire. But at the end of the two hours, you must have returned to your landing place here -- or to whatever other spot on this planet that I may choose to indicate to you by radio. Any attempt on your part to escape either now, or during the period following, or any attack you attempt on me except during these first two hours, or any effort to summon additional help, will mean the instant destruction of your ship -- and of your race. I hope that you will both understand what I have said and will believe that I have the power to achieve my ends." Surveyor Lan Sur crossed his arms. "This interview is at an end." After a few seconds of stunned silence, the two men turned and walked the long and lonesome way back to the Sunward . All of the scientists aboard the Sunward and most of the ship's officers were assembled in the central meeting hall when Broussard and Hawkins arrived. Hawkins walked directly to the central podium and turned to face the group. "Gentlemen," he began slowly, his features a mask of repressed emotion. "I know that I do not have to give you any fuller explanations than you have already received. We have been given a challenge that seems to be insoluble. But we must face the situation, as the alien Lan Sur has suggested, with a minimum of emotionality and with a maximum of good, hard logic. I would welcome any comments, suggestions you might have to offer." There was a general shuffling of feet and clearing of throats among the crowd. It seemed to Hawkins as if each member present was waiting for someone else to speak first. Finally the Communications Officer broke the silence. "Captain, it has occurred to me that if the alien's powers are as great as he claims, he may well be able to monitor every word any of us speaks, even here. I think we must take that into consideration." The crowd murmured an assent, feeling, Hawkins was sure, that it gave them an excellent excuse for not being able to propose any solution to the problem. "I think you are quite right," Hawkins answered. "However, I feel that for the moment we must operate as if he couldn't monitor us. In the meantime, the communications department must take what precautions it can to assure us that our future conversations are held in complete privacy." A touch of bitter defeat crept into his voice. "And I would imagine that even if he is listening right now, he'll gain precious little in the way of useful information." The group shuffled its feet again, embarrassed at its own impotence. "Are there any further comments?" Hawkins asked. There seemed to be none, until the Gunnery Officer spoke up. "Captain," he said, a slight smile on his broad face. "I'd sort of like to see just how much punishment the bastard can take." Hawkins laughed, breaking the tension. "I think we all agree with you. Suppose we put off any further discussion until after we've put the alien through his paces. It will give us an opportunity to test his strength -- and to test our own. "Many of you -- " Hawkins indicated with a wave of his hand the officers in the room " -- are familiar with the offensive strength of this vessel. She is one of the most powerfully armed ships that Earth has. What I intend to do, then, is this: We'll give our friend out there just as much hell as the Sunward can dish out. But while we're doing it, I want photographs of every attack we make, fast photos that will give us, perhaps, an inkling of how he overcomes all of our weapons, if he does. I think this is extremely important." He looked the crowd over. "We'll begin the attack just as soon as all of you have indicated to me that your departments are ready. That is all, gentlemen." Half an hour later the Sunward rose from her landing site and floated gently into the atmosphere. She came to a halt about ten thousand feet up and drifted into an optimum firing position. Every gun and camera the ship possessed was trained on the now scarcely visible figure of the alien almost two miles beneath her. Hawkins was on the battle bridge, his experienced hand controlling the ship firmly, belying the nervousness he felt. "Gunnery all ready, Sir!" came the report. "Fire!" shouted Hawkins a little louder than he meant to. He strained forward in his seat to watch the scene on the screen in front of him. The heat guns opened up first. In less than a second the area of maximum temperature was less than two feet away from the alien's body. A space of ground # yards in diameter suddenly went up in smoke at the intensity of the rays. Slim shreds of fire licked at the edge of the ring, and in the center all was fierce flame and smoke as the heat actually melted the earth. For a full five minutes the guns remained firing at maximum intensity. No organic substance known to man could withstand such violence. "Cease firing," Hawkins called. He leaned back slowly in his chair. It would take a few minutes for the smoke to clear, but he knew in his heart what they would see once it had. And even before the wind had blown enough of the smoke away to make things visible, they saw the figure of the alien come walking briskly out of the hellish ring of destruction and wave his arm to them. "God," said Hawkins quietly. After a moment he threw open a communications switch that connected him to the Gunnery Officer. "Well, what's next?" he asked quietly. Next came a huge ball of electricity that spat sparks as it hurtled through space and shattered itself the very feet of the alien. The resulting burst of light was painful to the eyes, but when vision cleared, they saw the alien again, still standing erect and still waving. They tried launching a dozen space torpedoes at once, filled with the highest chemical explosives known to man. They crashed in criss-cross fashion about the alien, ripping the very air asunder with their fantastic devastation. They left a crater almost a mile wide, and standing in the middle of it, still untouched, the enemy. Then the ship bombarded the small figure below with every wavelength known to man, still without effect. Finally the Gunnery Officer called Hawkins on the intercom. "I'm sorry, Captain, but we did our best. I guess there's only one thing left to do." "I guess you're right," Hawkins admitted reluctantly. And turning to his helmsman he said, "Take her  up. The Sunward was almost fifty miles from the alien when she unleashed her final weapon. She had dropped tattle-tale robots behind to feed her information both before and after the blast. And then she aimed the mightiest atomic weapon man had created straight at Lan Sur. The very planet shook at its detonation, so powerful was the bomb. The fire and clouds rose miles into the sky, and the Sunward's delicate instruments indicated the presence of a radiation so intense that it was certain an area hundreds of miles in size was completely destroyed. It took several minutes before enough of the aftermath of the explosion had cleared away for them to find him, but they located the alien sitting calmly in a crater at the very center of the affected area, obviously still unharmed. Hawkins contemplated the situation for several minutes, and then wearily stretched out his hand and turned on the radio. After a moment he said simply, "All right, Lan Sur, you win. Where do you want us to land?" Lan Sur answered immediately. "You will place your vessel in an area almost directly beneath your present position which I have caused to be marked in red. Any attempt to move the vessel without my permission will result in your immediate destruction. If, during the waiting time, you have any further questions to ask of me, I will be available. However, if you have not come to any conclusion by the end of that time, I shall be forced to destroy you without further hesitation. You have exactly twentytwo hours and nine minutes left." When the ship had landed, Hawkins returned to the conference room. Most of the executive personnel were there, although some of the scientists were absent, ostensibly still analyzing the results of the futile attack on the alien. Hawkins strode briskly to the podium and faced the group. "Gentlemen," he said, "you saw what happened. Perhaps some of you refused to believe that the alien could enforce his demands on us -- and I'm sure that all of us hoped that this would be the case. But now we must accept the fact that the choice we were told to make will have to be made, unless we can come up with some means of destroying this creature or of escaping his wrath. "I want you to know that although it might well be within my province as Captain of the Sunward to decide which of the alternatives we will take, I will not do so. What is decided here will affect all of Earth's peoples everywhere. Neither one man nor one small group can make this choice. Therefore, exactly one hour before the deadline, we will hold a plebiscite. Every person aboard the Sunward will have exactly one vote, and the majority decision will hold. I will refrain from voting and will decide the issue in the event of a tie. In the meantime, I want you to think. To think not only of a means of escape from our dilemma, if this be possible, but also how you will vote. If any of you have any ideas, or if you simply wish to talk about something, you will find me available at any hour. "I do not know how each of you will react to this situation. Perhaps the alien is right. Perhaps man is far too emotional an animal to merit more than slave status in the councils of the stars. But I hope that our actions will prove otherwise -- and that this, man's darkest hour, will also become his finest." Hawkins turned from the group and walked quietly from the room. He knew that his speech had been anything but an example of clear logic devoid of emotional context, and he had no idea why he had let himself be so carried away. But with the inborn and well-trained sense he had of men and situations, he knew that he could not have spoken otherwise. The men on board the Sunward faced the crisis in various fashions. A few of the scientists worked with erratic bursts of speed to finish up their analyses of the data they had gathered during the bombardment of the alien. Some of the crew wrote letters home. The communications department was swamped with personal messages to be relayed back to Earth. The Chaplain gave up his attempt at private counseling and held hourly open services. The routine jobs were still performed, albeit in a perfunctory manner. But mostly the men just gathered around in small groups and talked, usually in low voices. A few of the luckier ones got drunk. Captain Hawkins remained in his room, completely isolated from the rest of the ship, for almost four hours. During that time he simply sat in his easy chair and thought. At the beginning of the fifth hour he broke a precedent and opened a bottle of whiskey. At the beginning of the sixth hour he broke still another precedent and sent for Broussard. Hawkins was neither too drunk nor too sober when the psychologist arrived. He told the scientist to sit down and offered him a drink. "I know it's unethical for me to take you away from the men when they need your help more than ever before," Hawkins began slowly, choosing to stare moodily at the table instead of directly at the man he was talking to. "But for once I am exercising a Captain's perogatives. "You must have realized some of the problems that face anyone in a position of command. Usually we have to operate on pretty rigid rules, but things always go better if it seems as though we aren't quite as rigid as we really must be. The men under you always feel better if they think they have some free choice about things. In any military set-up you can't allow much of this free will at all. The best commander is the one who decides what it is his men must do in a given situation, and then finds some way of making the men want to do it." Again he paused, then looked up, facing Broussard squarely"I have decided what the result of the balloting must be -- and I want you, as a psychologist, to help me make sure that I get that result without anyone else being aware that we've rigged things." He got up from the table and began nervously pacing the floor. After a few moments he stopped and turned to face the psychologist, both his fists clenched tightly on the back of his easy chair. He said nothing. After several moments of silence, Broussard cleared his throat and asked, "And which choice have you decided it must be?" Hawkins collapsed into the chair. Finally his mouth opened, his lips trembled, and he said, "Slavery, of course. It's the only choice. "You're the psychologist, perhaps you can understand the fierce pride I'd take in knowing that the men would have the... the guts to want to end it all instead of bowing down to that bastard out there who holds us in the very palm of his hands." Hawkins paused in this outburst, blinked his eyes briefly, and then continued. "But that's just the emotion showing through. From the logical point of view, our race must continue. If we choose slavery we'll live and breathe and die just as we always have. We'll do all of these things on alien planets, having forgotten the Earth we sprang from and all our past history, as sorry as some of that has been. We'll have forgotten who we are. We will have lost ourselves." He banged a fist down on the table. "But we will exist! The protection of the race comes first, and we've got to make sure that it is protected, that the Sunward makes the logical decision. I'll steer things as best I can, but I'll need help." He turned to Broussard. "I'm not a psychologist. I won't tell you how to go about it. I don't care what you do. All I want are the results." For a space of several seconds the two men sat without speaking. Then Hawkins said, "And I guess that unless you have something to add, that's all for now. Let me know what you're doing, if you have time to tell me. But more important than that, let me know if you think you're going to fail. We may have to rig the ballots if you do." Broussard gave a deep sigh and rose to leave. He could understand the torment the Captain was going through, but there was little that he could do for the man at the moment. He was almost at the door when Hawkins stopped him. "Broussard!" Hawkins shouted. "What in God's name makes a man's personality so dear to him? Why has it always been just about the last thing that a man will give up? You're the psychologist. You must know the answer. Even a man with a diseased mind who knows that he's sick and wants help badly will fight back tooth and nail when you try to change even one small part of his personality make-up. Didn't you once tell me that? Didn't you?" The Captain's voice grew louder and louder. "That's why therapy is so hard, isn't it? That's why constructive education is so difficult, isn't it? That's why politicians who appeal to existing fears and hates and loves get elected instead of those men who try to shift public opinion for the better. "Oh, why in God's name are we so proud of this tiny, puny, weak, insignificant, miserable thing inside each of us we call the real me!" He picked up the whiskey bottle and hurled it with full force against the wall. It shattered in a thousand pieces. The dark liquor inside ran down the wall leaving long thin fingers of stain behind it. Captain Hawkins' personal steward came rushing into the room at the sound of the crash, and looked, horrified, at the mess on the wall. "Oh, get out! Get out, both of you, and leave me alone!" Hawkins shouted. After they were gone, Hawkins threw himself on his bunk and buried his face in his pillow. The mood of fierce hot anger passed rapidly, leaving only the warm sting of shame. Although he had made the decision to capitulate to the alien, at least at an intellectual level, he could not really bring himself to believe that there was no means of escape. His head ached from his emotional outburst and every effort toward constructive thinking seemed to end in a blind alley. He had been tossing restlessly for perhaps two hours when the Communications Officer brought him a message from Earth that had just been received. Hawkins reached for the message blank ear gerly at first, his befuddled mind thinking for just an instant that here were instructions from home telling him how to meet the crisis, telling him of a means of escape, or just taking the awful responsibility of the decision from him. But then he remembered that communications, even when they passed through subspace, took several days to get from Earth to here. Earth was still unaware of the crisis on Trellis, and this message that had just been received had begun its journey long before they were made so painfully aware of the existence of the alien. The radiogram was of a semiroutine nature, but one that, in normal circumstances, would have demanded an immediate answer. "Shall we bother replying to it?" the Communications Officer asked. "Of course not," Hawkins said angrily. "It wouldn't be necessary, even if we dared break radio silence to reply." The Communications Officer's eyes opened wide in a startled fashion. "Radio silence?" he said feebly. "But, Captain, we've... we've..." Hawkins sat bolt upright in his bunk. "Good Lord, man, do you mean to say that you've been sending messages to Earth right along?" The Communications Officer nodded. "We started relaying from the moment you contacted the alien. We've sent out all the talks, speeches, reports, everything. Just as you ordered." The man was cringing in fright. "But didn't you hear the alien tell us to make no attempt to contact our home base or he'd destroy us at once?" Hawkins demanded. The other officer felt like crawling out of the room without bothering to open the door. "I'm sorry, Captain," he managed to stutter. "But I must have missed that... that part of what he said. I... I was called out of the office during part of the contact when something went wrong with one of our main transmitters." The man had turned a very pale shade of white. "But I'll stop transmission at once," he said, turning nervously towards the door. Hawkins looked at his watch. "If he hasn't blasted us for it by now, I don't guess he ever will. But all die same, you'd better stop sending immediately." As the Communications Officer left the room, Hawkins cursed mildly under his breath. After all of his plans and sweat and pains, it would take something like this to bring the whole house of cards crashing about him, some little insignificant something that he had overlooked. "For want of a nail..."he said aloud, reminding himself of the age-old parable. "But if he meant what he said about not notifying Earth, why hasn't he already destroyed us?" Hawkins asked himself. Perhaps Lan Sur wasn't as cruelly logical and unfeeling as they had thought. Hawkins pushed the thought from his mind, knowing that it would lead him to too much false hope if he pursued it further. It would be too easy to hope that simply because Lan Sur had not acted upon one of his threats, he might not act on the rest of them. As he thought, Hawkins found himself pacing the floor of his room anxiously -- first to one wall, then a stop, an about face, and back to the opposite side of the room. He stopped his walking and slumped down into his chair. "Back and forth," he said out loud. "From one side to another. I'm just like the child in Broussard's story. Only instead of a man with a stick at one end of the hall and a dog at the other, I've got Lan Sur at both ends. Death, or a kind of slavery which is just about as bad. A real 'avoidance situation' if ever one existed." He laughed bitterly. "The closer I come to one choice, the worse it seems and the better the other choice appears." He shrugged his shoulders sadly. "But eventually I'll have to realize that there's no escape. Unfortunately, unlike the child in Broussard's example, I can't . , ." Hawkins stopped suddenly as something occurred to him. "Good God," he said after a moment. He sat upright in the chair. "It couldn't be. It just couldn't" he told himself. "And yet, I bet, I bet it isl" He got up from the chair and walked quickly to the wall communicator. "Hello, Bridge?" he demanded. "Inform all officers not on watch and all the scientific personnel that I want to see them in the council chamber in thirty minutes. Exactly thirty minutes, do you understand?" There was a broad smile on his face as he marched out of his stateroom to talk with some of the officers and scientists before the meeting. After all of the men had crowded into the meeting hall, they closed and locked the doors. The group kept up a low but excited chatter while they waited for Captain Hawkins to begin. "Gentlemen," he said finally, calling the meeting to order. "I am informed by the electronics specialists aboard that they have made this meeting room as 'spy-proof' as is humanly possible, but I think we've learned not to trust the power of human technology too much these past few hours. Therefore, I'm going to tell you just as little of my plans as I poibly can, on the theory that the best-kept secret is the one that the fewest people know about." The crowd seemed anxious, and a little apprehensive, but still hopeful. "Within the past hour, I have made what I think are several remarkable discoveries. I shall not tell you what they are, but I think I have discovered a way out of the dilemma that we are facing," The crowd breathed a unanimous sigh of relief. Smiles broke out on several faces. "I cannot tell you just at the moment what this mode of escape is. But I have discussed it with a few of you -- the fewest number possible -- and all of them agree that there is an excellent chance that it will work. If it does, we of Earth will still face a great many problems. But we shall, at least, be free, and that is the important thing. If we fail..." Hawkins let his voice trail off for a moment. "If we fail, we can expect instant destruction not only for us, but for all of mankind." He waited for the meaning to sink in, his face set in a firm frown. And then, purposefully, he let his facial muscles relax into a broad smile. "But I do not think that we will fail. I think we will win. And I have come to ask your permission to risk all our lives on the venture. I cannot give you any more information I can only ask for your confidence -- and for your votes of approval." He looked around the room deliberately, pausing for just the right length of time. And then he said, "Will all of you who have sufficient faith in me and my judgment please rise in assent?" Broussard had given him the trick of mass decision -- had told him that if you make people commit themselves openly, the decision has a better chance of unanimity. Hawkins smiled to see how well the device worked. Every man in the room was on his feet, most of them cheering. He waited for the shouting to die down and then said simply, "Thank you. And now to battle stations." sat in his control seat on the Sunward's bridge, staring at the button that turned on his radio set. "The purpose of a position of responsibility is to make decisions," he told himself. A green light burst into life on the control panel, indicating that all of the preparations he had asked for were in readiness. Such signals would be his only means of communications during the entire maneuver, for he had given orders that no one was to utter one word aloud during the entire operation. He was taking no chances. Hawkins grinned. "And the devil take the hindmost," he told himself. Pressing down on the radio button, he said aloud, "This is Captain Allen Hawkins of the Sunward calling Surveyor Lan Sur of the Dakn Empire." Almost at once he heard a voice answering, "You may go ahead." "I think we have finally reached our decision," Hawkins said soberly. "But before we announce it, we have one request to make, and I do not think you will find it an unreasonable one. As you yourself pointed out, ours is an incredibly emotional race. Had we not been so, we could have given you our answer much sooner." The alien's voice came booming into the control room. "I will listen to your request, but you surely realize that none of the terms that I have given you can be changed." "Yes, we realize that, and our request is along slightly different lines," said Hawkins. "As I said, we are an emotion-ridden race. But you must have realized that we aboard the Sunward are probably much more stable than are the majority of our peoples back on our home planets. It is always so with explorers and scientists. Therefore, we were able to reach a logical decision, and we will be able to hold to it. "Unfortunately, we anticipate a little more trouble than this with 'the folks back home if you understand that term. And to make things much easier, not only for us, but also for you, we have a request to make." "I understand the semantic import of the term and will give you my decision on the request if you will but come to the point," came the alien's voice. "We are wasting valuable time, and I have other things to do." Hawkins was beginning to sweat a little. He was purposefully needling the alien, and he had no idea of how far he dared to go. "Well, we of the Sunward are convinced that you can carry out your threats if we attempt any rebellion. We have seen you stand untouched by all the power this ship could muster. But defense against our meager weapons is one thing. The ability to destroy a star is another... "The folks back home would accept our decision without hesitation, and would never dream of giving you or your people any trouble, if we could show them authentic pictures of how powerful you are offensively. We request, therefore, that you unleash your weapons and turn this entire solar system into a nova while we photograph the procedure." Lan Sur's answering voice sounded frighteningly loud to Hawkins. "What you request is impossible for several reasons. First, the Dakn Empire has no desire to destroy potentially valuable property simply to demonstrate its powers. Second, the procedure would occupy too much time, for while my small ship could outrace the enveloping flames of the nova, your larger ship, unequipped as it is with the C # drive, would be caught in the destruction and you would perish. I recognize that from the emotionality index of your race, such a demonstration would probably aid in the peaceful absorption of your culture into ours, but it is impossible," Hawkins allowed himself the luxury of a quick smile. His analysis of the situation had been absolutely correct. "Well, look," he said in reply. "According to our survey, the outer planet in this system is pretty small and of little use to anybody. Could you possibly destroy it instead?" He paused for just the smallest fraction of a second, but then hurried on before the alien could reply. "Of course, if you can't do it without destroying all the rest of the planets too, why, we'll understand. But it would help... The alien's voice boomed back, interrupting the man. "You obviously still underestimate the technological level of the Dakn Empire." The alien paused as if checking something. "According to my analysis of this system, the fourth and outer planet is of no value whatsoever to my people. Therefore, I accede to your request. The planet will be destroyed at Once." "Hey, wait a minute," Hawkins cried in a startled tone of voice. "You need not worry," came the alien's flat response. "I fully realize that your visual recording equipment cannot function at such a distance. Therefore, you will raise ship at once and locate yourself to take advantage of the best recording angles." Hawkins had to hold himself in his chair to keep from dancing a jig. He had set a trap for the alien, and somehow, some incredible how, it had worked. At least he dared hope that it had... The Sunward came to a full stop just inside the orbit of the third planet. The alien ship danced on ahead of them towards the tiny outer world. "You can come closer than that," Lan Sur informed Hawkins, noting that the Sunward had stopped sooner than expected. "No, thank you," Hawkins replied. "We can get excellent pictures from this distance, and you must remember that we haven't the protective devices that you have." Hawkins noted that Lan Sur's voice carried with it an almost petulant, disdainful note. "There is a great deal of difference between the destruction of one small planet and the creation of a nova. However, if you feel safer there, you may remain where you are." A few moments later, the alien added, ""Are your recording devices in readiness?" Hawkins indicated to the alien that they were. "Then watch," Lan Sur said. It took perhaps three minutes for the first burst of light to reach their position. The tiny planet, scarcely # miles in diameter, began to glow slightly, then suddenly came alive with fire. Bursts of flame danced up hundreds of miles above its surface, then fell back, exhausted, into the boiling cauldron the planet had become. For almost ten minutes the small world seethed in agonized torment, and then, all at once, it seemed to shake apart at the seams. There was no sound, but those watching on board the Sunward mentally supplied the missing component to the greatest explosion they had ever witnessed. The cameras recorded the scene noiselessly. A few minutes later, after most of the fragments of the once-world had disintegrated in flaming splendor, Lan Sur's voice broke the silence. "I used only one of many possible means of destruction. However, it promised to be, under the circumstances, the most spectacular. And so you have seen the offensive might of the Dakn Empire. Are you ready to give me your decision?" The control board in front of Hawkins displayed all green signals. "Yes," he said. "I think we're finally ready. Here is our answer to the choice you gave us." His finger pressed firmly on a single red key. T HE Sunward had been hurling itself back towards Earth for almost an hour when Broussard discovered Captain Hawkins, standing by himself in the observation room, staring out into the black of subspace. "Well," the psychologist said. "I don't suppose it looks quite so bleak to you now as it did on the trip out." Hawkins turned and smiled at the man. "No, I don't guess it does. Funny what the presence of one small pinpoint of light does to the blackness of a field, eh?" Broussard nodded in assent. "I wonder what our alien friend thought when suddenly Clarion, Trellis, the two other planets, and us too, just up and disappeared and left him behind?" Hawkins laughed. "You're the alienist. You tell me." "I'd rather ask you something. How did you know it would work?" "You might say I became an expert in psychology over night," Hawkins replied. "Oh, not the scientific kind that you practice -- but the every day kind that most people mean when they use the word. I discovered, for example, that because of a misunderstanding on the part of the communications people, we continued to send messages home after the alien had specifically warned us not to do so. At first I thought he might be ignoring this infraction of his rules, but then I began to wonder if it didn't mean that he just wasn't aware of what we were doing. I remembered that he talked a great deal about a C # drive system which he claimed was so much better than the type we used. But when I asked the Navigator to do a little figuring, I discovered that by using subspace, we can actually get places much faster than his race does. "It all added up to the fact that his race had never stumbled onto the use of subspace. I know that sounds incredible, but when I checked with one of the top physicists, I found out that we happened onto it by sheer accident -- and an impossibly stupid one at that -- and not through any high-level theorizing. The theory came later, after the process had been demonstrated in a laboratory. "For a while I still couldn't believe it. But when we discovered that his space ship was a very small one -- too small to utilize the subspace drive -- I knew my guess had been correct. So I tricked him into letting us get into position where we could activate die drive -- and had the engineers increase the effective radius so that we could pull Clarion and her three planets into subspace with us." Hawkins paused for a few seconds as he turned back to the observation window. "We'll need every sun and every planet we can lay our hands on." Broussard leaned comfortably back against the door. "I think you were wise to take the pictures of the destruction of that fourth planet. We may need them to convince 'the folks back home' that this was the only solution to the problem." Hawkins agreed with him. "They won't like giving up all the universe they've come to be used to, just to run away and hide in subspace. And you know, I think the poets and the sailors and the young people in love will hate us most of all." "How do you mean?" asked Broussard. "No more heaven full of stars to write poems about, to sail true courses by, and to sing love songs under. I guess a lot of us will be lonely for all the stars." "Do you think they'll ever find us?" Broussard asked, changing the subject. "From the look on Lan Sur's face when he told about that other world, I suspect they'll move heaven and earth to find out where we've run to." "Find us? The Dakn Empire? I just don't know. We've got a thousand ships equipped with the subspace drive. That's a thousand or so solar systems we can pull through into subspace before they can catch up with us -- I hope. But we'll have to be careful. If one of our ships is ever caught, and they discover the drive, we're all done for. I doubt that they'll show us much mercy. "A thousand suns -- and only a handful of usable worlds in the whole lot of them. Not much for a race that's grown as fast as ours has. And to some of us, I guess, subspace will never be quite the same as the one we grew up in -- and came to know and love." Hawkins shook his head sadly. "But if they find us?" Broussard insisted. "Well, at least we'll have had time to prepare. Perhaps a year, perhaps ten, perhaps a thousand. But we beat them this time, and maybe we can do it again." For a long time he continued to stare quietly into the blackness. "I just don't know..."    bution to the International Geophysical Year, will probably be launched as the third stage of a three-stage rocket. The first drawing (top) shows the rocket beginning its vertical climb; trailing characteristic shock diamonds in its fiery tail. First stage will fall away fifty to sixty miles up; second stage drops away at # miles. Third stage will cease firing when it reaches orbit, # miles up and parallel with Earth's surface, at # m.p.h. Flaming death comes to small satellite (days or weeks later) when gradual drag of thin atmosphere diminishes original speed to point where gravity pulls it down into denser air. Tremendous remaining speed will cause satellite to overheat from friction and vaporize in seconds. To people on Earth it will appear as great flash and meteoric trail. Second drawing (bottom) shows satellite flipping over just before it disintegrates over Florida. During its life, instruments in satellite have constantly sent back vital information to scientists on Earth. (See inside front cover for drawings.) Clearly, re-educating Man's brain wouldn't fit him for survival on the plague-ridden surface . Re-educating his body was the answer; but the process was so very long... Illustrated by Paul Or ban stopped at the door marked it reported might think. It went "Re-Education Project -- Col. H. over him from grey, crew-cut H. Mudgett, Commanding Ofpoll to reagent-proof shoes, checkficer" and waited while the scaning his small wiry body and lean ner looked him over. He had been profile against its stored silhouettes, through that door a thousand tasting and smelling him as dubitimes, but the scanner made as ously as if he were an orange held elaborate a job of it as if it had in storage two days too long, never seen him before. "Name?" it said at last. It always did, for there was al"Carson, Samuel, #-#-#." ways in fact a chance that it had "Business?" never seen him before, whatever "Medical director, Re-Ed One." While Carson waited, a distant, heavy concussion came rolling down upon him through the mile of solid granite above his head. At the same moment, the letters on the door -- and everything else inside his cone of vision -- blurred distressingly, and a stab of pure pain went lancing through his head. It was the supersonic component of the explosion, and it was harmless -- except that it always both hurt and scared him. The light on the door-scanner, which had been glowing yellow up to now, flicked back to red again and the machine began the whole routine all over; the sound-bomb had reset it. Carson patiently endured its inspection, gave his name, serial number and mission once more, and this time got the green. He went in, unfolding as he walked the flimsy square of cheap paper he had been carrying all along. Mudgett looked up from his desk and said at once: "What now?" The physician tossed the square of paper down under Mudgett' s eyes. "Summary of the press reaction to Hamelin's speech last night' he said. "The total effect is going against us, Colonel. Unless we can change Hamelin's mind, this outcry to re-educate civilians ahead of soldiers is going to lose the war for us. The urge to live on the surface again has been mounting for ten years; now it's got a target to focus on. Us." Mudgett chewed on a pencil while he read the summary ; a blocky, bulky man, as short as Carson and with hair as grey and closecropped. A year ago, Carson would have told him that nobody in ReEd could afford to put stray objects in his mouth even once, let alone as a habit; now Carson just waited. There wasn't a man -- or a woman or a child -- of America's surviving who didn't have some such tic. Not now, not after twenty-five years of underground life. "He knows it's impossible, doesn't he?" Mudgett demanded abruptly. "Of course he doesn't," Carson said impatiently. "He doesn't know any more about the real nature of the project than the people do. He thinks the 'educating' we do is in some sort of survival technique -- That's what the papers think, too, as you can plainly see by the way they loaded that editorial." "Um. If we'd taken direct control of the papers in the first place -- " Carson said nothing. Military control of every facet of civilian life was a fact, and Mudgett knew it. He also knew that an appearance of freedom to think is a necessity for the human mind -- and that the appearance could not be maintained without a few shreds of the actuality. "Suppose we do this," Mudgett said at last. "Hamelin's position in the State Department makes it impossible for us to muzzle him. But it ought to be possible to explain to him that no unprotected human being can live on the surface, no matter how many Merit Badges he has for woodcraft and first aid. Maybe we could even take him on a little trip topside; I'll wager he's never seen it." "And what if he dies up there?" Carson said stonily. "We lose threefifths of every topside party as it is -- and Hamelin's an inexperienced -- " "Might be the best thing, mightn't it?" "No," Carson said. "It would look like we'd planned it that way. The papers would have the populace boiling by the next morning." Mudgett groaned and nibbled another double row of indentations around the barrel of the pencil. "There must be something," he said. "There is." "Well?" "Bring the man here and show him just what we are doing. Reeducate him, if necessary. Once we told the newspapers that he'd taken the course... well, who knows, they just might resent it. Abusing his clearance privileges and so on." "We'd be violating our basic policy' Mudgett said slowly. " 'Give the Earth back to the men who fight for it.' Still, the idea has some merits... "Hamelin is out in the antechamber right now," Carson said. "Shall I bring him in?" The radioactivity never did rise much beyond a mildly hazardous level, and that was only transient, during the second week of the war -- the week called the Death of Cities. The small shards of sanity retained by the high commands on both sides dictated avoiding weapons with a built-in backfire: no cobalt bombs were dropped, no territories permanently poisoned. Generals still remembered that unoccupied territory, no matter how devastated, is still unconquered territory. But no such considerations stood in the way of biological warfare. It was controllable : you never released against the enemy any disease you didn't yourself know how to control. There would be some slips, of course, but the margin for error -- There were some slips. But for the most part, biological warfare worked fine. The great fevers washed like tides around and around the globe, one after another. In such cities as had escaped the bombings, the rumble of truck convoys carrying the puffed heaped corpses to the mass graves became the only sound except for sporadic small-arms fire; and then that too ceased, and the trucks stood rusting in rows. Nor were human beings the sole victims. Cattle fevers were sent out. Wheat rusts, rice molds, com blights, hog choleras, poultry enteritises fountained into the indifferent air from the hidden laboratories, or were loosed far aloft, in the jet-stream, by rocketing fleets. Gelatin capsules pullulating with gill-rots fell like hail into the great fishing grounds of Newfoundland, Oregon, Japan, Sweden, Portugal. Hundreds of species of animals were drafted as secondary hosts for human diseases, were injected and released to carry the blessings of the laboratories to their mates and litters. It was discovered that minute amounts of the tetracycline series of antibiotics, which had long been used as feed supplements to bring farm animals to full market weight early, could also be used to raise the most whopping Anopheles and Aedes mosquitoes anybody ever saw, capable of flying long distances against the wind and of carrying a peculiarly interesting new strains of the malarial parasite and the yellow fever virus... By the time it had ended, everyone who remained alive was a mile under ground. For good. "I still fail to understand why," Hamelin said, "if, as you claim, you have methods of re-educating soldiers for surface life, you can't do so for civilians as well. Or instead." The under-secretary, a tall, spare man, bald on top, and with a heavily creased forehead, spoke with the odd neutral accent -- untinged by regionalism -- of the trained diplomat, despite the fact that there had been no such thing as a foreign service for nearly half a century. "We're going to try to explain that to you," Carson said. "But we thought that, first of all, we'd try to explain once more why we think it would be bad policy -- as well as physically out of the question. "Sure, everybody wants to go topside as soon as it's possible. Even people who are reconciled to these endless caverns and corridors hope for something better for their children -- a glimpse of sunlight, a little rain, the fall of a leaf. That's more important now to all of us than the war, which we don't believe in any longer. That doesn't even make any military sense, since we haven't the numerical strength to occupy the enemy's territory any more, and they haven't the strength to occupy ours. We understand all that. But we also know that the enemy is intent on prosecuting the war to the end. Extermination is what they say they want, on their propaganda broadcasts, and your own Department reports that they seem to mean what they say. So we can't give up fighting them; that would be simple suicide. Are you still with me?" "Yes, but I don't see -- " "Give me a moment more. If we have to continue to fight, we know this much : that the first of the two sides to get men on the surface again -- so as to be able to attack important targets, not just keep them isolated in seas of plagues -- will be the side that will bring this war to an end. They know that. too. We have good season to believe that they have a re-education project, and that it's about as far advanced as ours is." "Look at it this way," Col. Mudgett burst in unexpectedly. "What we have now is a stalemate. A saboteur occasionally locates one of the underground cities and lets the pestilences into it. Sometimes on our side, sometimes on theirs. But that only happens sporadically, and it's just more of this mutual extermination business -- to which we're committed, willy-nilly, for as long as they are. If we can get troops onto the surface first, we'll be able to scout out their important installations in short order, and issue them a surrender ultimatum with teeth in it. They'll take it. The only other course is the sort of slow, mutual suicide we've got now." Hamelin put the tips of his fingers together. "You gentlemen lecture me about policy as if I had never heard the word before. I'm familiar with your arguments for sending soldiers first. You assume that you're familiar with all of mine for starting with civilians, but you're wrong, because some of them haven't been brought up at all outside the Department. I'm going to tell you some of them, and I think they'll merit your close attention." Carson shrugged. "I'd like nothing better than to be convinced, Mr. Secretary. Go ahead." "You of all people should know. Dr. Carson, how close our underground society is to a psychotic break. To take a single instance, the number of juvenile gangs roaming these corridors of ours has increased # since the rumors about the Re-Education Project began to spread. Or another: the number of individual crimes without motive -- crimes committed, just to distract the committer from the grinding monotony of the life we all lead -- has now passed the total of all other crimes put together. "And as for actual insanity -- of unhospitalized, there are four million cases of which we know , each one of which should be committed right now for early paranoid schizophrenia -- except that were we to commit them, our essential industries would suffer a manpower loss more devastating than anything the enemy has inflicted upon us. Every a major hazard to his neighbors and to his job, but how can we do without them? And what can we do about the unrecognized, subclinical cases, which probably total twice as many? How long can we continue operating without a collapse under such conditions ?" Carson mopped his brow. "I didn't suspect that it had gone that far." "It has gone that far," Hamelin said icily, "and it is accelerating. Your own project has helped to accelerate it. Col. Mudgett here mentioned the opening of isolated cities to the pestilences. Shall I tell you how Louisville fell?" "A spy again, I suppose," Mudgett said. "No, Colonel. Not a spy. A band of -- of vigilantes, of mutineers. I'm familiar with your slogan, 'The Earth to those who fight for it.' Do you know the counter-slogan that's circulating among the people?" They waited. Hamelin smiled and said : " 'Let's die on the surface.' "They overwhelmed the military detachment there, put the city administration to death, and blew open the shaft to the surface. About a thousand people actually made it to the top. Within twenty-four hours the city was dead -- as the ringleaders had been warned would be the outcome. The warning didn't deter them. Nor did it protect the prudent citizens who had no part in the affair." Hamelin leaned forward suddenly. "People won't wait to be told when it's their turn to be re-educated. They'll be tired of waiting, tired to the point of insanity of living at the bottom of a hole. They'll just go. "And that, gentlemen, will leave the world to the enemy... or, more likely, the rats. They alone are immune to everything by now." There was a long silence. At last Carson said mildly: "Why aren't we immune to everything by now?" "Eh? Why -- the new generations. They've never been exposed." "We still have a reservoir of older people who lived through the war: people who had one or several of the new diseases that swept the world, some as many as five, and yet recovered. They still have their immunities; we know; we've tested them. We know from sampling that no new disease has been introduced by either side in over ten years now. Against all the known ones, we have immunization techniques, anti-sera, antibiotics, and so on. I suppose you get your shots every six months like all the rest of us; we should all be very hard to infect now, and such infections as do take should run mild courses." Carson held the undersecretary's eyes grimly. "Now, answer me this question: why is it that, despite all these protections, every single person in an opened city dies?" "I don't know," Hamelin said, staring at each of them in turn. "By your showing, some of them should recover." "They should," Carson said. "But nobody does. Why? Because the very nature of disease has changed since we all went underground. There are now abroad in the world a number of mutated bacterial strains which can bypass the immunity mechanisms of the human body altogether. What this means in simple terms is that, should such a germ get into your body, your body wouldn't recognize it as an invader. It would manufacture no antibodies against the germ. Consequently, the germ could multiply without any check, and -- you would die. So would we all." "I see," Hamelin said. He seemed to have recovered his composure extraordinarily rapidly. "I am no scientist, gentlemen, but what you tell me makes our position sound perfectly hopeless. Yet obviously you have some answer." Carson nodded. "We do. But it's important for you to understand the situation, otherwise the answer will mean nothing to you. So: is it perfectly clear to you now, from what we've said so far, that no amount of re-educating a man's brain, be he soldier or civilian, will allow him to survive on the surface?" "Quite clear," Hamelin said, apparently ungrudgingly. Carson's meter. "But if you don't re-educate his brain, what can you re-educate? His reflexes, perhaps?" "No," Carson said. "His lymph nodes, and his spleen." A scornful grin began to appear on Hamelin's thin lips. "You need better public relations counsel than you've been getting," he said. "If what you say is true -- as of course I assume it is -- then the term 're-educate' is not only inappropriate, it's downright misleading. If you had chosen a less suggestive and more accurate label in the beginning, I wouldn't have been able to cause you half the trouble I have." "I agree that we were badly advised there," Carson said. "But not entirely for those reasons. Of course the name is misleading; that's both a characteristic and a function of the names of top secret projects. But in this instance, the name 'ReEducation', bad as it now appears, subjected the men who chose it to a fatal temptation. You see, though it is misleading, it is also entirely accurate." "Word-games," Hamelin said. "Not at all," Mudgett interposed. "We were going to spare you the theoretical reasoning behind our project, Mr. Secretary, but now you'll just have to sit still for it. The fact is that the body's ability to distinguish between its own cells and those of some foreign tissue -- a skin graft, say, or a bacterial invasion of the blood -- isn't an inherited ability. It's a learned reaction. Furthermore, if you'll think about it a moment, you'll see that it has to be. Body cells die, too, and have to be disposed of; what would happen if removing those dead cells provoked an antibody reaction, as the destruction of foreign cells does? We'd die of anaphylactic shock while we were still infants. "For that reason, the body has to learn how to scavenge selectively. In human beings, that lesson isn't learned completely until about a month after birth. During the intervening time, the newborn infant is protected by antibodies that it gets from the colestrum, the 'first milk' it gets from the breast during the three or four days immediately after birth. It can't generate its own; it isn't allowed to, so to speak, until it's learned the trick of cleaning up body residues without triggering the antibody mechanisms. Any dead cells marked 'personal' have to be dealt with some other way." "That seems clear enough," Hamelin said. "But I don't see its relevance." "Well, we're in a position now where that differentiation between the self and everything outside the body doesn't do us any good any more. These mutated bacteria have been 'selfed' by the mutation. In other words, some of their protein molecules, probably desoxyribonucleic acid molecules, carry configurations or 'recognition-units' identical with those of our body cells, so that the body can't tell one from another." "But what has all this to do with re-education?" "Just this," Carson said. "What we do here is to impose upon the cells of the body -- all of them -- a new set of recognition-units for the guidance of the lymph nodes and the spleen, which are the organs that produce antibodies. The new units are highly complex, and the chances of their being duplicated by bacterial evolution, even under forced draught, are too small to worry about. That's what Re-Education is. In a few moments, if you like, we'll show you just how it's done." Hamelin ground out his fifth cigarette in Mudgett's ashtray and placed the tips of his fingers together thoughtfully. Carson wondered just how much of the concept of recognition-marking the under-secretary had absorbed. It had to be admitted that he was astonishingly quick to take hold of abstract ideas, but the self-marker theory of immunity was -- like everything else in immunology -- almost impossible to explain to laymen, no matter how intelligent. "This process," Hamelin said hesitantly. "It takes a long time?" "About six hours per subject, and we can handle only one man at a time. That means that we can count on putting no more than seven thousand troops into the field by the turn of the century. Every one will have to be a highly trained specialist, if we're to bring the war to a quick conclusion." "Which means no civilians," Hamelin said. "I see. I'm not entirely convinced, but -- by all means let's see how it's done." retary tried his best to look everywhere at once. The room cut into the rock was roughly two hundred feet high. Most of it was occupied by the bulk of the Re-Education Monitor, a mechanism as tall as a fifteen-storey building, and about a city block square. Guards watched it on all sides, and the face of the machine swarmed with technicians. "Incredible," Hamelin murmured. "That enormous object can process only one man at a time?" "That's right," Mudgett said. "Luckily it doesn't have to treat all the body cells directly. It works through the blood, re-selfing the cells by means of small changes in the serum chemistry." "What kind of changes?" "Well," Carson said, choosing each word carefully, "that's more or less a graveyard secret, Mr. Secretary. We can tell you this much: the machine uses a vast array of crystalline, complex sugars which behave rather like the blood groupand-type proteins. They're fed into the serum in minute amounts, under feedback control of second-bysecond analysis of the blood. The computations involved in deciding upon the amount and the precise nature of each introduced chemical are highly complex. Hence the size of the machine. It is, in its major effect, an artificial kidney." "I've seen artificial kidneys in the hospitals," Hamelin said, frowning. "They're rather compact affairs." "Because all they do is remove waste products from the patient's blood, and restore the fluid and electrolyte balance. Those are very minor renal functions in the higher mammals. The organ's main duty is chemical control of immunity. If Burnet and Fenner had known that back in #, when the selfing theory was being formulated, we'd have had Re-Education long before now." "Most of the machine's size is due to the computation section," Mudgett emphasized. "In the body, the brain-stem does those computations, as part of maintaining homeostasis. But we can't reach the brain-stem from outside; it's not under conscious control. Once the body is re-selfed, it will re-train the thalamus where we can't." Suddenly, two swinging doors at the base of the machine were pushed apart and a mobile operating table came through, guided by two attendants. There was a form on it, covered to the chin with a sheet. The face above the sheet was immobile and almost as white. Hamelin watched the table go out of the huge cavern with visibly mixed emotions. He said: "This process -- it's painful?" "No, not exactly," Carson said. The motive behind the question interested him hugely, but he didn't dare show it. "But any fooling around with the immunity mechanisms can give rise to symptoms -- fever, general malaise, and so on. We try to protect our subjects by giving them a light shock anesthesia first." "Shock?" Hamelin repeated. "You mean electroshock? I don't see how -- " "Call it stress anesthesia instead. We give the man a steroid drug that counterfeits the anesthesia the body itself produces in moments of great stress -- on the battlefield, say, or just after a serious injury. It's fast, and free of after-effects. There's no secret about that, by the way; the drug involved is #hydroxypregnane-# dione sodium succinate, and it dates all the way back to #." "Oh," the under-secretary said. The ringing sound of the chemical name had had, as Carson had hoped, a ritually soothing effect. "Gentlemen," Hamelin said hesitantly. "Gentlemen, I have a -- a rather unusual request. And, I am afraid, a rather selfish one." A brief, nervous laugh. "Selfish in both senses, if you will pardon me the pun. You need feel no hesitation in refusing me, but..." Abruptly he appeared to find it impossible to go on. Carson mentally crossed his fingers and plunged in. "You would like to undergo the process yourself?" he said. "Well, yes. Yes, that's exactly it. Does that seem inconsistent? I should know, should I not, what it is that I'm advocating for my following? Know it intimately, from personal experience, not just theory? Of course I realize that it would conflict with your policy, but I assure you I wouldn't turn it to any political advantage -- none whatsoever. And perhaps it wouldn't be too great a lapse of policy to process just one civilian among your seven thousand soldiers." Subverted, by God ! Carson looked at Mudgett with a firmly straight face. It wouldn't do to accept too quickly. But Hamelin was rushing on, almost chattering now. "I can understand your hesitation. You must feel that I'm trying to gain some advantage, or even to get to the surface ahead of my fellow-men. If it will set your minds at rest, I would be glad to enlist in your advance army. Before five years are up, I could surely learn some technical skill which would make me useful to the expedition. If you would prepare papers to that effect, I'd be happy to sign them." "That's hardly necessary," Mudgett said. "After you're Re-Educated, we can simply announce the fact, and say that you've agreed to join the advance party when the time comes." "Ah," Hamelin said. "I see the difficulty. No, that would make my position quite impossible. If there is no other way -- " "Excuse us a moment," Carson said. Hamelin bowed, and the doctor pulled Mudgett off out of earshot. "Don't overplay it," he murmured. "You're tipping our hand with that talk about a press release, Colonel. He's offering us a bribe -- but he's plenty smart enough to see that the price you're suggesting is that of his whole political career, He won't pay that much." "What then?" Mudgett whispered hoarsely. "Get somebody to prepare the kind of informal contract he suggested. Offer to put it under security seal so we won't be able to show it to the press at all. He'll know well enough that such a seal can be broken if our policy ever comes before a presidential review -- and that will restrain him from forcing such a review. Let's not demand too much. Once he's been re-educated, he'll have to live the rest of the five years with the knowledge that he can live topside any time he wants to try it -- and he hasn't had the discipline our men have had. It's my bet that he'll goof off before the five years are up -- and good riddance." They went back to Hamelin, who was watching the machine and humming in a painfully abstracted manner. "I've convinced the Colonel," Carson said, "that your services in the army might well be very valuable when the time comes, Mr. Secretary. If you'll sign up, we'll put the papers under security seal for your own protection, and then I think we can fit you into our treatment program today." "I'm grateful to you, Dr. Carson," Hamelin said. "Very grateful , indeed." Five minutes after his injection, Hamelin was as peaceful as a flounder and was rolled through the swinging doors. An hour's discussion of the probable outcome, carried on in the privacy of Mudgett's office, bore very little additional fruit, however. "It's our only course," Carson said. "It's what we hoped to gain from his visit, duly modified by circumstances. It all comes down to this: Hamelin's compromised himself, and he knows it." "But," Mudgett said, "suppose he was right? What about all that talk of his about mass insanity?" "I'm sure it's true," Carson said, his voice trembling slightly despite his best efforts at control. "It's going to be rougher than ever down here for the next five years, Colonel. Our only consolation is that the enemy must have exactly the same problem; and if we can beat them to the surface -- " " Hsst !" Mudgett said. Carson had already broken off his sentence. He wondered why the scanner gave a man such a hard time outside that door, and then admitted him without any warning to the people on the other side. Couldn't the damned thing be trained to knock? The newcomer was a page from the haemotology section. "Here's the preliminary rundown on your 'Student X', Dr. Carson," he said. The page saluted Mudgett and went out. Carson began to read. After a moment, he also began to sweat. "Colonel, look at this. I was wrong after all. Disastrously wrong. I haven't seen a blood-type distribution pattern like Hamelin's since I was a medical student, and even back then it was only a demonstration, not a real live patient. Look at it from the genetic point of view -- the migration factors." He passed the protocol across the desk. Mudgett was not by background a scientist, but he was an enormously able administrator, of the breed that makes it its business to know the technicalities on which any project ultimately rests. He was not much more than halfway through the tally before his eyebrows were gaining altitude like shock-waves. "Carson, we can't let that man into the machine! He's -- " "He's already in it, Colonel, you know that. And if we interrupt the process before it runs to term, we'll kill him." "Let's kill him, then," Mudgett said harshly. "Say he died while being processed. Do the country a favor." "That would produce a hell of a stink. Besides, we have no proof." Mudgett flourished the protocol excitedly. "That's not proof to anyone but a haemotologist." "But Carson, the man's a saboteur!" Mudgett shouted. "Nobody but an Asiatic could have a typing pattern like this! And he's no melting-pot product, either -- he's a classical mixture, very probably a Georgian. And every move he's made since we first heard of him has been aimed directly at us -- aimed directly at tricking us into getting him into the machine!" "I think so too," Carson said grimly. "I just hope the enemy hasn't many more agents as brilliant." "One's enough," Mudgett said. "He's sure to be loaded to the last cc of his blood with catalyst poisons. Once the machine starts processing his serum, we're done for -- it'll take us years to re-program the computer, if it can be done at all. It's got to be stopped!" "Stopped?" Carson said, astonished. "But it's already stopped. That's not what worries me. The machine stopped it fifty minutes ago." "It can't have! How could it? It has no relevant data!" "Sure it has." Carson leaned forward, took the cruelly chewed pencil away from Mudgett, and made a neat check beside one of the entries on the protocol. Mudgett stared at the checked item. "Platelets Rh VI? he mumbled. "But what's that got to do with... Oh. Oh, I see. That platelet type doesn't exist at all in our population now, does it? Never seen it before myself, at least." "No," Carson said, grinning wolfishly. "It never was common in the West, and the pogrom of #I wiped it out. That's something the enemy couldn't know. But the machine knows it. As soon as it gives him the standard antiIV desensitization shot, his platelets will begin to dissolve -- and he'll be rejected for incipient thrombocytopenia." He laughed. "For his own protection! But -- " "But he's getting nitrous oxide in the machine, and he'll be held six hours under anesthesia anyhow -- also for his own protection," Mudgett broke in. He was grinning back at Carson like an idiot. "When he comes out from under, he'll assume that he's been re-educated, and he'll beat it back to the enemy to report that he's poisoned our machine, so that they can be sure they'll beat us to the surface. And he'll go the fastest way: overland." "He will," Carson agreed. "Of course he'll go overland, and of course he'll die. But where does that leave us? We won't be able to conceal that he was treated here, if there's any sort of an inquiry at all. And his death will make everything we do here look like a fraud. Instead of paying our Pied Piper -- and great jumping Jehosophat, look at his name! They were rubbing our noses in it all the time! Nevertheless, we didn't pay the piper; we killed him. And 'platelets Rh VI won't be an adequate excuse for the press, or for Hamelin's following." "It doesn't worry me," Mudgett rumbled. "Who'll know? He won't die in our labs. He'll leave here hale and hearty. He won't die until he makes a break for the surface. After that we can compose a fine obituary for the press. Heroic government official, on the highest policy level -- couldn't wait to lead his followers to the surface -- died of being too much in a hurry -- Re i'Ui. Ed Project sorrowfully reminds everyone that no technique is foolproof -- " Mudgett paused long enough to light a cigarette, which was a most singular action for a man who never smoked. "As a matter of fact, Carson," he said, it's a natural." Carson considered it. It seemed to hold up. And 'Hamelin' would have a death certificate as complex as he deserved -- not officially, of course, but in the minds of everyone who knew the facts. His death, when it came, would be due directly to the thrombocytopenia which had caused the Re-Ed machine to reject him -- and thrombocytopenia is a disease of infants. Unless ye become as little children... That was a fitting reason for rejection from the new kingdom of Earth: anemia of the newborn. His pent breath went out of him in a long sigh. He hadn't been aware that he'd been holding it. "It's true," he said softly. "That's the time to pay the piper." "When?" Mudgett said. "When?" Carson said, surprised. "Why, before he takes the children away." #   Only if we face and know the truth about the world, whether the world of physics and chemistry, or of geology and biology, or of mind and behavior, shall we be able to see what is our own true place in the world. -- Julian Huxley A new moral outlook is called for in which the submission to the powers of nature is replaced by respect for what is best in man. It is where this respect is lacking that scientific technique is dangerous. -- Bertrand Russell if ' Jetways were excellent substitutes for war , perfect outlets for all forms of neuroses. And the unfit were weeded out by death... Down the naked, ice-white corridor. The echo of his footfalls like drumbeats, ominous, threatening. Around him, bodies, faces, moving dimly behind the veil of his fear. At last, above an oaken door, the black-lettered sign: He took a deep breath. He withdrew his handkerchief and wiped perspiration from his forehead, his upper lip, the palms of his hands. His mind caressed the hope : Maybe I've failed the tests. Maybe they won't give me a license . He opened the door and stepped inside. The metallic voice of a robotreceptionist hummed at him: "Name?" "T -- Tom Rogers." Click. "Have you an appointment?" His gaze ran over the multitude of silver-boxed analyzers, computers, tabulators, over the white-clad technicians and attendants, over the endless streams of taped data fed from mouths in the domeshaped ceiling. "Have you an appointment?" repeated the robot. "Oh. At #:# p. m." Click. "Follow the red arrow in Illustrated by Mel Hunter Aisle Three, please." Tom Rogers moved down the aisle, eyes wide on the flashing, arrow-shaped lights just beneath the surface of the quartzite floor. Abruptly, he found himself before a desk. Someone pushed him into a foam-rubber contour chair. "Surprised, eh, boy?" boomed a deep voice. "No robots at this stage of the game. No sir. This requires the human touch. Get me?" "Uh-huh." "Well, let's see now." The man settled back in his chair behind the desk and began thumbing through a file of papers. He was paunchy and bald save for a forepeak of redbrown fuzz. His gray eyes, with the dreamy look imposed by thick contact lenses, were kindly. Sweeping across his flat chest were two rows of rainbow-bright Driver's Ribbons. Two of the bronze accident stars were flanked by smaller stars which indicated limb replacements. Belatedly, Tom noticed the desk's aluminum placard which read Harry Hayden , Final Examiner -- Human. Tom thought, Please, Harry Hayden, tell me I failed. Don # t lead up to it. Please come out and say I failed the tests. "Haven't had much time to look over your file," mused Harry Hayden. "Thomas Darwell Rogers. Occupation: journalism student. Unmarried. No siblings. Height, fiveeleven. Weight, one-sixty-three. Age, twenty." Harry Hayden frowned. "Twenty?" he repeated, looking up. Oh, God, here it comes again . "Yes, sir," said Tom Rogers. Harry Hayden's face hardened. "You've tried to enlist before? You were turned down?" "This is my first application." Sudden hostility swept aside Harry Hayden's expression of kindliness. He scowled at Tom's file. "Bom July #, #. This is July #, #. In two days you'll be twenty-one. We don't issue new licenses to people over twenty-one." "I -- I know, sir. The psychiatrists believe you adjust better to Driving when you're young." "In fact," glowered Harry Hayden, "in two days you'd have been classified as an enlistment evader. Our robo-statistics department would have issued an automatic warrant of arrest." "I know, sir." "Then whyd you wait so long?" The voice was razor-sharp. Tom wiped a fresh burst of' sweat from his forehead. "Well, you know how one keeps putting things off. I just -- " "You don't put off things like this, boy. Why, my three sons were lined up here at five in the morning on their sixteenth birthdays. Every mother's son of 'em. They'd talked of nothing else since they were twelve. Used to play Drivers maybe six, seven hours every day..." His voice trailed. "Most kids are like that," said Tom. "Weren't you? # The hostility in Harry Hayden seemed to be churning like boiling water. "Oh, sure," lied Tom. "I don't get it. You say you wanted to Drive, but you didn't try to enlist." Tom squirmed. You can't tell him you've been scared of jetmoliles ever since you saw that crash when you were three. You can't say that, at seven, you saw your grandfather die in a jetmobile and that after that you wouldn't even play with a jetmobile toy . You can't tell him those things because five years of psychiatric treatment didn't get the fear out of you. If the medics didn't understand, how could Harry Hayden? Tom licked his lips. And you can't tell him how you used to lie in bed praying you'd die before you were sixteen -- or how you've pleaded with Mom and Dad not to make you enlist till you were twenty. You can't -- Inspiration struck him. He clenched his fists. "It -- it was my mother, sir. You know how mothers are sometimes. Hate to see their kids grow up. Hate to see them put on a uniform and risk being killed." Harry Hayden digested the explanation for a few seconds. It seemed to pacify him. "By golly, that's right. Esther took it hard when Mark died in a five-car bangup out of San Francisco. And when Larry got his three summers ago in Europe. Esther's my wife -- Mark was my youngest, Larry the oldest." He shook his head. "But it isn't as bad as it used to be. Organ and limb grafts are pretty well perfected, and with electro-hypnosis operations are painless. The only fatalities now are when death is immediate, when it happens before the medics get to you. Why, no more than one out of ten Drivers died in the last four-year period." A portion of his good nature returned. "Anyway, your personal life's none of my business. You understand the enlistment contract?" Tom nodded. Damn you, Harry Hayden, let me out of here. Tell me I failed, tell me I passed. But damn you, let me out. "Well?" said Harry Hayden, waiting. "Oh. The enlistment contract. First enlistment is for four years. Renewal any time during the fourth year at the option of the enlistee. Minimum number of hours required per week: seven. Use of unauthorized armour or offensive weapons punishable by # fine or five years in prison. All accidents and deaths not witnessed by a Jetway 'copter-jet must be reported at once by visi-phone to nearest Referee and Medical Depot. Oh yes, maximum speed : # miles per." "Right! You got it, boy!" Harry Hayden paused, licking his lips. "Now, let's see. Guess I'd better ask another question or two. This is your final examination, you know. What do you remember about the history of Driving?" Tom was tempted to say, "Go to Hell, you fat idiot," but he knew that whatever he did or said now was of no importance. The robottraining tests he'd undergone during the past three weeks, only, were of importance. Dimly, he heard himself repeating the phrases beaten into his mind by school historytapes : "In the #th Century a majority of the Earth's peoples were filled with hatreds and frustrations. Humanity was cursed with a world war every generation or so. Between wars, young people had no outlets for their energy, and many of them formed bands of delinquents. Even older people developed an alarming number of psychoses and neuroses. "The institution of Driving was established in # after automobiles were declared obsolete because of their great number. The Jetways were retained for use of young people in search of thrills." "Right!" Harry Hayden broke in. "Now, the kids get all the excitement they need, and there are no more delinquent bands and wars. When you've spent a hitch or you're mature. You're ready to settle down and live a quiet life -- just like most of the old-time war veterans used to do. And you're trained to think and act fast, you've got good judgment. And the weak and unfit are weeded out. Right, boy?" Tom nodded. A thought forced its way up from the layer of fear that covered his mind. "Right -- as far as it goes." "How's that?" Tom's voice quavered, but he said, "I mean that's part of it. The rest is that most people are bored with themselves. They think that by traveling fast they can escape from themselves. After four or eight years of racing at # per, they find out they can't escape after all, so they become resigned. Or, sometimes if they're lucky enough to escape death, they begin to feel important after all. They aren't so bored then because a part of their mind tells them they're mightier than death." Harry Hayden whistled. "Hey, I never heard that before. Is that in the tapes now? Can't say I understand it too well, but it's a fine idea. Anyway, Driving's good. Cuts down on excess population, too -- and with Peru putting in Jetways, it's world-wide. Yep, by golly. Yes, sir!" He thrust a pen at Tom. "All right, boy. Just sign here." Tom Rogers took the pen automatically. "You mean, I -- " "Yep, you came through your robot-training tests A-l. Oh, some of the psycho reports aren't too flattering. Lack of confidence, sense of inferiority, inability to adjust. But nothing serious. A few weeks of Driving'll fix you up. Yep, boy, you've passed. You're getting your license. Tomorrow morning you'll be on the Jetway. You'll be Driving, boy, Driving!" Oh Mother of God, Mother of God... "And now," said Harry Hayden, "you'll want to see your Hornet." "Of course," murmured Tom Rogers, swaying. The paunchy man rose and led Tom down an aluminite ramp and onto a small observation platform some ninety feet above the ground. A dry summer wind licked at Tom's hair and stung his eyes. Nausea twisted at his innards. He felt as if he were perched on the edge of a slippery precipice. "There," intoned Harry Hayden, "is the Jetway. Beautiful, eh?" "Uh-huh." Trembling, Tom forced his vision to the bright, smooth canyon beneath him. Its bottom was a shining white asphalt ribbon, a thousand feet wide, that cut arrowstraight through the city. Its walls were naked concrete banks a hundred feet high whose reinforced lips curved inward over the antiseptic whiteness. Harry Hayden pointed a chubby finger downward. "And there they are -- the Hornets. See 'em, boy? Right there in front of the assembly shop. Twelve of 'em. Brand new DeLuxe Super-Jet '#I Hornets. Yes, sir. Going to be twelve of you initiated tomorrow." Tom scowled at the twelve jetmobiles shaped like flattened teardrops. No sunlight glittered on their dead-black bodies. They squatted silent and foreboding, oblivious to sunlight, black bullets poised to hurl their prospective occupants into fury and horror. Grandpa looked so very white in his coffin, so very dead -- "What's the matter, boy? You sick?" "N -- no, of course not." Harry Hayden laughed. "I get it. You thought you'd get to really see one. Get in it, I mean, try it out. It's too late in the day, boy. Shop's closing. You couldn't drive one anyway. Regulation is that new drivers start in the morning when they're fresh. But tomorrow morning one of those Hornets'll be assigned to you. Delivered to the terminal nearest your home. Live far from your terminal?" "About four blocks." "Half a minute on the mobilewalk. What college you go to?" "Western U." "Lord, that's # miles away. You been living there?" "No. Commuting every day on the monorail." "Hell, that's for old women. Must have taken you over an hour to get there. Now you'll make it in almost thirty minutes. Still, it's best to take it easy the first day. Don't get 'er over # per. But don't let 'er fall beneath that either. If you do, some old veteran'll know you're a greenhorn and try to knock you off." Suddenly Harry Hayden stiffened. "Here come a couple! Look at 'em, boy!" The low rumbling came out of the west, as of angry bees. Twin pinpoints of black appeared on the distant white ribbon. Louder and louder the rumbling. Larger and larger the dots. To Tom, the sterile Jet way was transformed into a home of horror, an amphitheatre of death. Louder and larger -- Brooommmmmm. Gone. "Hey, how'ja like that, boy? They're gonna crack the sonic barrier or my name's not Harry Hayden!" Tom's white-knuckled hands grasped a railing for support. Christ, I'm going to he sick. I'm going to vomit. "But wait'll five o'clock or nine in the morning. That's when you see the traffic. That's when you really do some Driving!" Tom gulped. "Is -- is there a rest room here?" "What's that, boy?" "A -- a rest room." "What's the matter, boy? You do look sick. Too much excitement, maybe?" Tom motioned frantically. Harry Hayden pointed, slow comprehension crawling over his puffy features. "Up the ramp, to your right." Tom Rogers made it just in time... Many voices : "Happy Driving to You, Happy Driving to You, Happy Driving, Dear Taaaahmmm -- " (pause) "Happy Driving to -- " (flourish) " -- You!" An explosion of laughter. A descent of beaming faces, a thrusting forward of hands. Mom reached him first. Her small face was pale under its thin coat of make-up. Her firm, rounded body was like a girl's in its dress of swishing Martian silk, yet her blue eyes were sad and her voice held a trembling fear: "You passed, Tom?" Softly. Tom's upper lip twitched. Was she afraid that he'd passed the tests -- or that he hadn't! He wasn't sure. Before he could answer, Dad broke in, hilariously. "Everybody passes these days excepts idiots and cripples!" Tom tried to join the chorus of laughter. Dad said, more softly, "You did pass, didn't you?" "I passed," said Tom, forcing a smile. "But, Dad, I didn't want a surprise party. Really, I -- " "Nonsense." Dad straightened. "This is the happiest moment of our lives -- or at least it should be." Dad grinned. An understanding, intimate and gentle, flickered across his handsome, gray-thatched features. For an instant Tom felt that he was not alone. Then the grin faded. Dad resumed his role of proud and blustering father. Light glittered on his three rows of Driver's Ribbons. The huge Blue Ribbon of Honor was in their center, like a blue flower in an evil garden of bronze accident stars, crimson fatality ribbons and silver death's-heads. In a moment of desperation Tom turned to Mom. The sadness was still in her face, but it seemed overshadowed by pride. What was it she'd once said? "It's terrible, Tom, to think of your becoming a Driver, but it'd be a hundred times more terrible not to see you become one." He knew now that he was alone, an exile, and Mom and Dad were strangers. After all, how could one person, entrenched in his own little world of calm security, truly know another's fear and loneliness? "Just a little celebration," Dad was saying. "You wouldn't be a Driver unless we gave you a real send-off. All our friends are here, Tom. Uncle Mack and Aunt Edith and Bill Ackerman and Lou Dorrance -- " No, Dad, Tom thought. Not our friends. Your friends. Don't you remember that a man of twenty who isn't a Driver has no friends? A lank, loosejowled man jostled between them. Tom realized that Uncle Mack was babbling at him. "Knew you'd make it, Tom. Never believed what some people said 'bout you being afraid. My boy, of course, enlisted when he was only seventeen. Over thirty now, but he still Drives now and then. Got a special license, you know. Only last week -- " Dad exclaimed, "A toast to our new Driver!" Murmurs of delight. Clinkings of glasses. Gurglings of liquid. Someone bounded a piano chord. Voices rose: "A-Driving he will go, A-Driving he will go, To Hell and back in a coffinsack A-Driving he will go." Tom downed his glass of champagne. A pleasant warmth filled his belly. A satisfying numbness dulled the raw ache of fear. He smiled bitterly. There was kindness and gentleness within the human heart, he thought, but like tiny inextinguishable fires, there were ferocity and savageness, too. What else could one expect from a race only a few thousand years beyond the spear and stone axe? Through his imagination passed a parade of sombre scenes: The primitive man dancing about a Paleolithic fire, chanting an invocation to strange gods who might help in tomorrow's battle with the hairy warriors from the South. The barrel-chested Roman gladiator, with trident and net, striding into the great stone arena. The silver-armored knight, gauntlet in gloved hand, riding into the pennant-bordered tournament ground. The rock-shouldered fullback trotting beneath an avalanche of cheers into the #th Century stadium. Men needed a challenge to their wits, a test for their strength. The urge to combat and the lust for danger was as innate as the desire for life. Who was he to say that the law of Driving was unjust? Nevertheless he shuddered. And the singers continued: "A thousand miles an hour, A thousand miles an hour, Angels cry and devils sigh At a thousand miles an hour..." like a den of chained, growling black tigers. White-cloaked attendants scurried from stall to stall, deft hands flying over atomic-engine controls and flooding each vehicle with surging life. Ashen-faced, shivering in the early-morning coolness, Tom Rogers handed an identification slip to an attendant. "Okay, kid," the rat-faced man wheezed, "there she is -- Stall #. Brand new, first time out. Good luck." Tom stared in horror at the grumbling metal beast. "But remember," the attendant your first day. Most Drivers aren't out to get a Ribbon every day either. They just want to get to work or school, mostly, and have fun doing it." Have fun doing it, thought Tom. Good God. About him passed other blackuniformed Drivers. They paused at the heads of their stalls, donned crash-helmets and safety belts, adjusted goggles. They were like primitive warriors, like cocky Roman gladiators, like armored knights, like star fullbacks. They were formidable and professional. Tom's imagination wandered. By Jupiter's beard , we'll vanquish Attila and his savages. We'll prove ourselves worthy of being men and Romans... The Red Knight? I vow , Mother , that his blood alone shall know the sting of the lance... Don't worry, Dad. Those damned Japs dnd Germans won't lay a hand on me... Watch me on TV, folks. Three touchdowns today -- I promise! The attendant's voice snapped him back to reality. "What you waiting for, kid? Get in!" Tom's heart pounded. He felt the hot pulse of blood in his temples. The Hornet lay beneath him like an open, waiting coffin. He swayed. "Hi, Tom!" a boyish voice called. "Bet I beat ya!" Tom blinked and beheld a smallboned, tousled-haired lad of seventeen striding past the stall. What was his name? Miles. That was it. Larry Miles. A frosh at Western U. A skinny, pimply-faced boy suddenly transformed into a blackgarbed warrior. How could this be? "Okay," Tom called, biting his lip. He looked again at the Hornet. A giddiness returned to him. You can say you're sick, he told himself. It's happened before: a hangover from the party. Sure. Tomorrow you'll feel better. If you could just have one more day, just one -- Other Hornets were easing out into the slip, sleek black cats embarking on an insane flight. One after another, grumbling, growling, spatting scarlet flame from their tail jets. Perhaps if he waited a few minutes, the traffic would be thinner. He could have coffee, let the other nine-o'clock people go on ahead of him. No, dammit, get it over with . If you crash, you crash. If you die, you die. You and Grandpa and a He gritted his teeth, fighting the omnipresent giddiness. He eased his body down into the Hornet's cockpit. He felt the surge of incredible energies beneath the steelite controls. Compared to this vehicle, the ancient training jets were as children's toys. An attendant snapped down the plexite canopy. Ahead, a guidemaster twirled a blue flag in a starting signal. Tom flicked on a switch. His trembling hands tightened about the steering lever. The Hornet lunged forward, quivering as it was seized by the Jetway's electromagnetic guide-field. He drove... One hundred miles an hour, two hundred, three hundred. Down the great asphalt valley he drove. Perspiration formed inside his goggles, steaming the glass. He tore them off. The glaring whiteness hurt his eyes. Swish, swish swish. Jetmobiles roared past him. The rushing wind of their passage buffeted his own car. His hands were knuckled white around the steering lever. He recalled the advice of Harry Hayden: Don't let 'er under # per. If you do, some old veteran'll know you're a greenhorn and try to knock you off. Lord. Six hundred. But strangely, a measure of desperate courage crept into his fearclouded mind. If Larry Miles, a pimply-faced kid of seventeen, could do it, so could he. Certainly, he told himself. His foot squeezed down on the accelerator. Atomic engines hummed smoothly. To his right, he caught a kaleidoscopic glimpse of a white gyroambulance. A group of metal beasts lay huddled on the emergency strip like black ants feeding on a carcass. Like Grandfather , he thought. Like those two moments out of the dark past , moments of screaming flame and black death and a child's horror . Swish. The scene was gone, transformed into a cluster of black dots on his rear-vision radarscope. His stomach heaved. For a moment he thought he was going to be sick again. But stronger now than his horror was a growing hatred of that horror. His body tensed as if he were fighting a physical enemy. He fought his memories, tried to thrust them back into the oblivion of lost time, tried to leave them behind him just as his Hornet had left the cluster of metal beasts. He took a deep breath. He was not going to be sick after all. Five hundred now. Six hundred. He'd reached the speed without realizing it. Keep 'er steady. Stay on the right. If Larry Miles can do it, So can you. Swooommmm . God, where did that one come from? Only ten minutes more. You'll be there. You'll make a right hand turn at the college. The automatic pilot'll take care of that. You won't have to get in the fast traffic lanes. He wiped perspiration from his forehead. Not so bad, these Drivers. Like Harry Hayden said, the killers come out on Saturdays and Sundays. Now, most of us are just anxious to get to work and school. Six hundred, seven hundred, seven-twenty -- Did he dare tackle the sonic barrier? The white asphalt was like opaque mist. The universe seemed to consist only of the broad expanse of Jetway. Swooommmm. Someone passing even at this speed! The crazy fool! And cutting in, the flame of his exhaust clouding Tom's windshield! Tom's foot jerked off the accelerator. His Hornet slowed. The car ahead disappeared into the white distance like a black arrow. Whew! His legs were suddenly like ice water. He pulled over to the emergency strip. Down went the speedometer -- five hundred, four, three, two, one, zero... He saw the image of the approaching Hornet in his rear-vision radarscope. It was traveling fast and heading straight toward him. Heading onto the emergency strip. A side-swiper! Tom's heart churned. There would be no physical contact between the two Hornets -- but the torrent of air from the inch-close passage would be enough to hurl his car into the Jetway bank like a storm-blown leaf. There was no time to build enough acceleration for escape. His only chance was to frighten the attacker away. He swung his Hornet right, slammed both his acceleration and braking jet controls to full force. The car shook under the sudden release of energy. Whitehot flame roared from its two dozen jets. Tom's Hornet was enclosed by a sphere of flame. But dwarfing the roar was the thunder of the attacking Hornet. A black meteor in Tom's radarscope, it zoomed upon him. Tom closed his eyes, braced himself for the impact. There was no impact. There was only an explosion of sound and a moderate buffeting of his car. It was as if many feet, not inches, had separated the two Hornets. Tom opened his eyes and flicked off his jet controls. Ahead, through the plexite canopy, he beheld the attacker. It was far away now, like an insane, fiery black bird. Both its acceleration and braking jets flamed. It careened to the far side of the Jetway and zig-zagged up the curved embankment. Its body trembled as its momentum fought the Jetway's electromagnetic guidefield. As if in an incredible carnival loop-the-loop, the Hornet topped the lip of the wall. It left the concrete, did a backward somersault, and gyrated through space like a flaming pinwheel. It descended with an earth-shaking crash in the center of the gleaming Jet way. What happened? Tom's dazed mind screamed. In God's name, what happened? He saw the sleek white shape of a Referee's 'copter-jet floating to the pavement beside him. Soon he was being pulled out of his Hornet. Someone was pumping his hand and thumping his back. "Magnificent," a voice was saying. "Simply magnificent!" Night. Gay laughter and tinkling glasses. Above all. Dad's voice, strong and proud: "... and on his very first day, too. He saw the car in his rear radarscope, guessed what the devil was up to. Did he try to escape? No, he stayed right there. When the car closed in for the kill, he spiin around and turned on all his jets full-blast. The killer never had a chance to get close enough to do his side-swiping. The blast roasted him like a peanut." Dad put his arm around Tom's shoulder. All eyes seemed upon Tom's bright new crimson fatality ribbon embossed not only with a silver death's-head, but also with a sea-blue Circle of Honor. Tom thought: Behold the conquering hero . At tila is vanquished and Rome is saved . The Red Knight has been defeated , and the fair princess is mine. That Jap Zero didn't have a chance . A touchdown in the final five seconds of the fourth quarter -- not bad y eh? Dad went on : "That devil really was a killer. Fellow name of Wilson. Been Driving for six years. Had thirty-three accident ribbons with twenty-one fatalities -- not one of them honorable. That Wilson drove for just one purpose: to kill. He met his match in our Tom Rogers." Applause from Uncle Mack and Aunt Edith and Bill Ackerman and Lou Dorrance -- and more important, from young Larry Miles and big Norm Powers and blonde Geraldine Oliver and cute little Sally Peters. Tom smiled. Not only your friends tonight, Dad. Tonight it's my friends, too. My friends from Western U. Fame was as unpredictable as the trembling of a leaf, Tom thought, as delicate as a pillar of glass. Yet the yoke of fame rested pleasantly on his shoulders. He had no inclination to dislodge it. And while a fear was still in him, it was now a fragile thing, an egg shell to be easily crushed. Later Mom came to him. There was a proudness in her features, and yet a sadness and a fear, too. Her eyes held the thoughtful hesitancy of one for whom time and event have moved too swiftly for comprehension. "Tomorrow's Saturday," she murmured. "There's no school, and no one'll expect you to Drive after what happened today. You'll be staying home for your birthday, won't you, Tom?" Tom Rogers shook his head. "No," he said wistfully. "Sally Peters is giving a little party over in New Boston. It's the first time anyone like Sally ever asked me anywhere." "I see," said Mom, as if she really didn't see at all. "You'll take the monorail?" "No, Mom," Tom answered very softly. "I'm Driving."    The world has begun to fear that science has destroyed the ancient values and put nothing in their place. What has really happened, of course, is that science has shown in harsh relief the division between our values and our world. -- J. Bronowski Valaya was a primitive so ciety, yet the natives had a way of communicating that had the experts stumped... shango JL "is our new trouble spot," The older man's rodlike finger probed decisively at a violet dot placed on a thin yellow line of a circle, third out from a sun. Other dots peppered the giant glazed star map, companions of which hung on the other three walls of the chamber. "Valaya is the name of the place," Van Isaac continued. "Perhaps you know something about it." "Not much," said the other, a thirtyish, lean man by the name of Arnold Koven. "I mean, not a great deal besides what the telefilms have screamed for the past two weeks. Revolution, slaughter, tribe against tribe." Koven placed a cigarette between his lips, and his eyes smiled with gentle cynicism. "Valaya has a creole sound." "You'll have no vacation, believe me," Van Isaac responded. "During the colonization, Valaya was peopled largely by residents of the Caribbean. The inhabitants have intermarried over the past sixty years, so there is a slight blue Martian strain. Valaya was seeded with sugar and tin to provide for economy, but left rather backward -- by choice of the colonists. # ' Koven tied into focus. "The raids are the combined effort of the people of the north continent, which is small. The attacks are focused across the channel to the larger south continent. Somehow, the people on North have been inveigled into believing they have a right to South. Our only bit of information is that moved his eyes from the star map to his superior. "Have you localized the trouble ? # ' "Yes. These raids have moved from the small north continent -- # Van Isaac touched one of a row of studs on the desk. An immense rear projection lantern view on the wall where the map had been, setIllustrated by Paul Orban a man named Bruschloss -- # Koven suddenly straightened in the theatrical gloom where his cigarette smoke floated torpidly. "Bruschloss? The one you used to call The Hog ? # "The Hog, yes. He is a citizen of the Betelgeuse Bloc with right-ofentry to any of our planets. He claims to be solely interested in setting up a trading company on Valaya, with headquarters at the village of Maru. But the attacks date from two weeks after he arrived. So," said Van Isaac, tone hardening, "I know he is undoubtedly behind all this, and I want him stopped." "Any G. G. I. A. men around Maru?" Koven inquired. "The local agent for the continent, named Spot wood. He says Bruschloss has conversed privately with the local ruler. Spotwood couldn't plant cameras or sound equipment at the conferences -- our own blasted code forbids it. But the rub is that the ruler has in no way communicated with any of the other tribes on North. In no way " Van Isaac repeated, with a fist on the desk for emphasis. "They have drums. The drums say nothing Spotwood can't understand. All perfectly innocent. They have runners. No runners. No flare signals. No secret meetings. Spotwood has hired three or four dozen breeds to do his spying, but he has absolutely no idea of how the ruler manages to organize the other tribes into these precise, well-timed, well-generaled raids across the strait." "I'm to find out?" asked Koven. "And stop the proceedings?" "Exactly. Spotwood's good, but    At the spaceport, Koven pushed his way through the jabbering crowd, checked his baggage onto the Valaya flight, had coffee, and got something to read from a Vendobook. He chose a volume entitled The Twilight of Meaningism, by Dr. Reywill of Memphis University. As the long iron dagger of the rocket cut burning through the blue curtain of the sky, he settled down in his compartment to read. Dr. Reywill's work turned out to be an historical analysis of the forces which, toward the end of the twentieth century, catalyzed the arts into pure sensation, utterly devoid of meaning or communication. During the middle of that century, with poetry restricted to the hands of the few who wailed that their mechanized age did not understand them, poetry became exceedingly private in imagery and meaning. In a natural evolution, it completely lost all meaning and became a charming musical form several cuts above the primitive. When the masses found they could merely accept verse as a pleasantry whose sound intrigued them as a rattle intrigues a child, poetry, regained its audience. The same condition held true for music, the dance, painting and sculpture. To Koven, born when Meaningism was two hundred years dead, the notion that a poem could say something seemed quaint and even a trifle peculiar. Twenty-eight hours later Koven landed in Maru, knowing a good deal more about the history of contemporary poetry, but knowing nothing which would help him unravel the puzzle of the raids. #I ing," Jimmy Spotwood said. "The colonization board worked Valaya over from one end to the other. This is genuine, authentic and otherwise real tropicana." Koven stood at the window of Spotwood's shack, which looked down a long street to the central clearing which formed the crossroads of Maru. Bluish sky spread out overhead like sheets of hot metal, and the almost poisonously colorful foliage stuttered gendy in a hot breeze. The nearly undressed inhabitants, skins belying only a touch of the bluish blood from Mars, idled along from hut to hut, talking or playing with the children. The only note of turmoil was sounded by the slapping skin drums from the far side of the village. Koven turned around to his host. "Are they beating the drums for any purpose ?" he wanted to know. Spotwood took a drink from a sanitary plastic bubble. "Once a month everybody on North gets together for a shindig." He smirked with good-natured lasciviousness. "The whole rigamarole is years old. Guarantees that plenty of good strong babies will be born, and that the crops won't fail, or some such rot. O' course," Spotwood said laconically, "this monthly assembly would be the logical time to suspect, if they ever did anything but put on a sexual exhibition in that clearing down the road. Maybe," he added, "the head dancer's pelvis -- a female, by the way -- is tattooed with a message in some sort of invisible ink our poor old Earth eyes can't see. Her belly gyrations would guarantee high readership, if nothing else." Koven smiled thinly, as a knock rattled on the slatted door. Spotwood's eyes slitted down and jumped briefly to Koven's, in a glance which the latter interpreted to read, News isn't slow in Maru. I'll bet this is the prime mover. Koven instinctively patted the flat pistol beneath his coat, his back to the door as Spotwood opened it. "I understand we have a visitor in the village," came the sound of an unpleasant, wet and wheezing voice. "You're right," said Spotwood. "Come on in, Bruschloss." Molding his face into a careful expression of relaxed disinterest, Koven turned around to face The Hog, Bruschloss extended a pink gobby hand. "Koven, did you say? I'm always delighted to see anyone here with Earth blood in his veins." He laughed self-consciously, and the rolling folds of his belly quivered. "Even though we are on opposite sides of the political fence we can still be friends, I hope. You arrived at a good time. Tonight's the celebration." He seemed to breathe more quickly at the thought; he savored the words like a man aroused by a fetish. "Spotwood's been telling me," Koven said. "Has he, eh? He enjoys them too, I'll wager." No reply from Spotwood, save the pop of another gin globe being opened. "Have a drink, Bruschloss?" Spotwood asked. "No, I don't think so. Liquor makes me very sleepy. I want to be alert for the ceremony tonight. I love to watch Chemin dance." "Quite a woman," Spotwood agreed. "Er... what is your line of business?" inquired Bruschloss of Koven, elevating the wrinkles on his steaming forehead into an expression of curiosity. "I came to help Jimmy finish up in a hurry." "Trying to discover whether you might seed Valaya for platinum?" asked Bruschloss with perfect innocence. Spotwood snickered. "What's the matter with you, Bruschloss? Are you sure you haven't had a drink? You know it's petro I'm after." "Of course! I am stupid, forgive me." A self-conscious pause ensued, while no one spoke. Then Bruschloss, as if snatching at any clue that might tell him more about the visitor to Maru, spied Koven' s book, slung carelessly along with his other gear on the deal table. "A book!" exclaimed The Hog, rolling forward. "Mr. Koven, it delights me to find a literate man in this wilderness." He turned a few pages, leaving black sweaty thumb prints on the thin plastic leaves. "The disappearance of meaning from poetry, eh?" he said, snapping the book closed. "I must read it some time, if you'll lend it." Koven said he would, and Bruschloss made a quick exit. He seemed to do things in opposites. First he had been straining to remain and keep conversation alive. Last, he had been straining to leave as rapidly as possible. In spite of the man's slovenly appearance, Koven knew he had a dangerous enemy. Bruschloss would have had to be an utter moron to believe that Koven had come to Maru simply to aid Spotwood. Spotwood himself, as if sensing Koven's appraisal of the man from the Betelgeuse Bloc, spoke : "Watch him. He's got three uglies up at his place who do nothing all day but drink and play cards. They're here in case of trouble." Koven smiled thinly. "I hope we can accommodate them." Toward the end of the sixteenhour-day, after Spotwood had prepared dinner from food cubes, Koven decided to take a stroll around the village. The citizens hardly gave him a glance, engrossed in eating within their houses. From glimpses Koven caught, they hardly looked like a warlike crew, and yet he had read the tales of atrocities committed across the strait on South, and he felt a crawly sensation on his spine. Tonight, perhaps, plans would be laid for the next attack, while he knew nothing about the process which would probably go on right around him. Certainly the people of Valaya weren't 'paths. He knew that much. Koven crossed the central clearing and turned left toward the village fringe. He passed the final few dwellings and turned left again, up a slight wooded rise, back across which he could reach Spotwood's house. As he crossed the spine of the ridge, he thought he noticed a movement along to his right, and turned in that direction. He caught sight of an arm arching forward, and a small circular object spiraling down toward his head through the spicy air. Instinctively trained, Koven pumped his legs and slid out forward along the ground, rolling, watching the object go spinning crazily by against the darkening heavens. He extended an arm, caught a tree and jerked himself around into the protection of its thick trunk as a flat explosion tore the air and smashed his eardrums. He closed his eyes tightly. The blazing white flash lasted only a second. Struggling up, he had time only to see the scooped-out pit along the spine's crest, smoking like a raw wound, where the bomb had struck. Boots bit earth, coming in his direction at a dead run. Koven crouched in tree shadow, hoping that his adversary had not seen him scramble to safety in the illusive light on the hill. He snaked the flat pistol free of its casing just as the attacker broke through a clump of brush. Koven had a fleeting impression of massive size, a meaty face and short spiky dark hair. Then he was on his feet, charging against his enemy, who abruptly saw him and ground to a halt. The attacker's mouth made a red startled O, and one heavy hand labored to bring up a heavy pistol. But Koven had already fired. The pale thin beam lanced out in complete silence. The enemy dropped his weapon but had no time to utter a sound. The skin of his head began to blacken and fall away in charring strips. Koven always felt relieved when a man shot like that fell, for he did not have to look at the bubbling horror of burning flesh and gristle. Swinging around, Koven scrutinized the village. No clamor, no outcry had been made. The central street overflowed now, for the short night had nearly begun, and torches began to flare, throwing up great roiling shadows on the trees as the crowd babbled and pressed down to the main clearing. Why in the name of sense had the attack come now? at this precise moment? Spotwood had been in Maru for months, and had said nothing about any sort of attack on him. Certainly Bruschloss suspected Spotwood. All men from Earth had to be suspect here, to a man from the Betelgeuse Bloc. Therefore something about himself which, offhand, he couldn't pinpoint, had driven The Hog far enough into fear to send this attacker. This point Spotwood verified after Koven jogged back to the house at a run. Spotwood scratched his chin and whistled. "Why the blazes is he after you right away?" Spotwood asked. "I'm wondering the same." "He must think you've found out how he organizes the raids." "That's the hell of it. I haven't." From the central clearing came a staccato increase in the tempo of the drumming. Spotwood swiveled around, listening, while Koven continued to scowl dismally at the floor. Spotwood snagged a light coat from the comer and slipped into it. "They'll be starting in a minute. Come on." Once again he managed to grin. "You don't want to miss Chemin. They call the dance a shango. I often wince when I think what a pastor would call it." Koven followed Spotwood from the shanty, and they trudged down the blue-lit street toward the swaying mob in the clearing. Koven quickly outlined a few facts to his companion. They must pretend not to notice the surprise on the face of Bruschloss, which would certainly be present when Koven turned up alive. Moreover, Koven made it clear that they should not even look the least suspiciously in The Hog's direction. "Tough order," Spotwood offered. "Bruschloss sees you alive, he knows you probably saw, and killed, the man who tried to get you. He figures you described the killer to me, and also figures I pegged him down for you as one of his assistants." "Still, let's try to bluff it out." They pressed through the edges of the crowd, ignored, for the watchers concentrated upon the figures diving and turning and stamping their feet on the earth in the center of the ring, clad in feathers and little else, skins shining and polished by sweat in the bubbling light of the ghastly blue flares. Spotwood shouldered off to stand a fair distance away, and Koven found a slight break in the crowd and crouched down on his haunches, stabbing a cigarette into his mouth. From the rear of the circle a young girl appeared, very beautiful, with a tuft of feathers at her hip, and her breasts oiled and glowing like metal cones. Koven gathered this was Chemin, for the name passed on many tongues. A circle of male dancers closed around her. Koven kept his head straight front, but moved his eyes in their sockets, so that he could see Bruschloss, backed up by two men with thick shoulders standing directly behind. The trio blurred almost out of sight at the edge of Koven' s line of vision. Bruschloss sat bent forward, his rolled belly heaving, and the sweaty, stubbled skin of his face looking rotted in the blue light. He followed each movement of the dancer Chemin with obscene concentration, but Koven, switching his eyes front, had the unpleasant feeling that the two burly companions were scrutinizing him. Chemin's dance became less sexual for a few moments, became the sort of dance you might almost expect to see on a photovision variety hour ; a dance without specific meaning. Abruptly the palms of Koven's hands felt wet. He lurched to his feet and searched the crowd for Spotwood. The crowd seemed intensely quiet during Chemin's performance. Each man had his eyes riveted to the flying hands and undulating body of the girl in the center. Koven inched his way free of the crowd, still keeping watch on the dance. He just broke from the edges as Chemin disappeared into the darkness from which she had come, and pairs of males and females, with sharp, biting cries, began again the ritual. With a throbbing in his nerves that always came when he was very close to something he worked for, Koven cut around a series of huts in time to see the girl Chemin disappear into one of them. Looking left and right, seeing no one except the crowd at the rear of the hut forming this edge of the ring, he eased out the pistol and stepped through the hangings. Chemin sat with her head resting wearily on her arms, as if the dancing had drained her last reserve of energy. The light scuff of Koven's shoes on dirt caused her to whip her head up, and he realized again how attractive she was, in spite of the perspiration filming her body and the tired haggardness of her features. "Don't make a single sound," he warned. "FU fire." Gradually the spasmodic quivering in her throat subsided. "You are the new man here with Spotwood," she said, frightened. Koven nodded. "I came to find out how Bruschloss organized the attacks on South, through your ruler." The Hog's name washed the light of truth for a moment into her eyes, and Koven pressed on, sure. "We didn't know how the plans for attack were circulated on this continent. But you've been giving the plans, out there in the ring. That solo dance had a meaning." "Fertility..." she began. "Oh, no. Before and after it, yes. But the women paid no attention to your solo dance. The men did. They were attentive. They were waiting for and receiving orders, weren't they? Orders your ruler had to give through a dance, because Spotwood was here, and you couldn't dare give them in a way he might understand." "You are wrong." Koven stepped forward and pressed the pistol against Chemin's breast. In the badly-lit tent he could still see the flesh of that breast harden. "Am I wrong?" A tiny tongue caressed her lips in anxiety. "What are you going to do with me?' "Do you have more to tell them?" "No, I..." "Tell the truth." The pistol muzzle ground an ugly white pit in her flesh. "Yes, I have more." "When you dance, tell the people to kill Bruschloss and his two men, immediately. Orders from your ruler. Bruschloss is a traitor, tell them." Aghast: "I could not..." "Would you rather die?" "The ruler will know..." "You show me where he is sitting. I'll take care of him. If you should give the wrong message when you dance... if they should turn on me, I'll still manage to kill you before they get me. So it's entirely up to you whether you live or die." He recognized acceptance in her bowed neck. "I want you to show me how the dance works. Show me the motions, the gestures you use to explain plans for the attack." Chemin gazed obliquely at him with tormented eyes. Then she crossed her wrists and moved her fingers in a fluttering motion. "This is the sign for a small peninsula south of here, on the strait. This..." She pantomimed again. "... is the sign which means meeting place. This..." And so she rehearsed the various signals, and then the message Koven had issued, while he kept his pistol trained on her. He knew now what had alarmed Bruschloss, what had prompted the attack so suddenly. again. Koven stood almost directly behind the ruler, fitting a tiny cylindrical attachment to the muzzle of his pistol, to reduce the power for close range. Once more the men glued their eyes on the dancing figure. Seconds after the dance had begun, the ruler uttered a sharp gasp and lurched up from his woven chair as he read the new message. Koven's hand touched him and he stepped around the chair in the darkness. Koven slid the pistol forward and triggered it. Only a faint white glow showed flush against the belly of the ruler. With the smell of burned flesh eating in his nostrils, Koven lowered the ruler's body to the ground. The crowd to either side had surged forward slightly, beginning to talk curiously now, paying no attention to Koven. Across the ring, Bruschloss blinked and gestured sweatily, while his two assistants closed in tight against his shoulders. The drums slapped in a frenzy. Koven saw a man break from the edge of the ring and lurch across toward Bruschloss. Chemin stopped her dance, collapsing to her knees. One of Bruschloss' men shot the first attacker, but by then the crowd had broken, and men boiled forward, and Koven heard The Hog's scream as a sea of writhing backs and arms and legs closed over him. The sounds were gruesome. Koven turned and raced up the long street to Spot wood's house. The seemingly careless agent reeled in moments later, to hear Koven finishing at the communicator set: "... that's right, two Control squads. And for God's sake make it within twenty minutes, before they decide to massacre us." He threw down a switch and swung around on the stool, grinning lopsidedly. Down the long avenue echoed screams, and an angry mob shouting. "Bang! Like that!" Spotwood breathed. "What the hell happened?" Koven sketched it quickly. "You knew," Spotwood said in astonishment, pointing to the table, "because of that book you happened to read?" Koven nodded. "The arts no longer convey meaning, but the ruler of Maru managed to put it back in. Something you didn't look for. Something I wouldn't have looked for... if I hadn't stopped at a Vendobook." "You think they'll come after us?" Spotwood asked. Koven glanced out the window. At the street's end, pieces of something meaty and red had been hoisted up by the crowd on long, sharp poles. They glistened in the flaring light. "They may. They're in a wild mood. Once Control takes over, pistol from the cupboard, and they though, the attacks will be a thing sat down to wait, of the past. But until then..." Twenty-three minutes later 'cop"Holy God," Spotwood breathed, ters were snarling across the night He went toward a cupboard, over the village, and beams cut stopped at the table and glanced swathes back and forth over a sea down. Nearly in awe, he read of tossing bluish faces. Spotwood aloud, "The Twilight of Meaning stood up with a sigh, stretched and ism . Mph." An emphatic shake of took down two gin bubbles, saying the head. Then he unlimbered a to Koven, "Have a drink."    should know. How science wise are you? Score # points for each correct answer: # is good; # is very good; # or over makes you a real whizz. Answers on page I #. #. What theory states that every even number can be written as the sum of two prime numbers? #. For a circular orbit to be maintained around the Earth like that of the moon a velocity of m.p.h. is the minimum necessary. #. Which metal has the highest known melting point? #. A parsec is a measure of interstellar space equal to a distance of light years. #. What is the only naked-eye object visible in the southern sky which isn't part of our own galaxy? #. Prime numbers get as we move into larger figures. #. What is another name for a gnomic projection? #. The number I followed by a hundred zeros is known as a  #. Which planet has a density so low that it's actually less than that of water? #. The basic distinction between animals and plants is that animals have no . #. Do non-metals show more extreme melting points than the two extremes in the metal family? #. Cosmic ray intensity varies with the latitude because of Earth's . The tiny, live, straw-colored circles were mysterious but definitely harmless . Yet they were directly responsible for riots. revolution and an atomic war... marsfenes called the grunion which has odd egglaying habits. At high tide, on the second, third, and fourth nights after the full of the moon from March to June, thousands of female grunions ride in on the waves to a beach in southern California near San Diego, dig tail-first into the soft sand, deposit their eggs, then ride back on the wash of the next wave. The whole operation lasts about six seconds. On the nights when the grunion are running, hordes of people used to come to the beach with baskets and other containers, and with torches to light the scene, and try to catch the elusive little fish in their hands. They were doing that on an April night in #. In the midst of the excitement of the chase, only a few of them noticed that something else was riding the waves in with the grunions. Among the few who stopped grunion-catching long enough to investigate were a girl named Marge Hickin and a boy named students, "going together", who had come down on Saturday from Los Angeles for the fun. "What on earth do you think these can be, Gene?" Marge asked, holding out on her palms three or four of the little circular, wriggling objects, looking like small-size doughnuts, pale straw in color. "Never saw anything like them," Gene admitted. "But then my major's psychology, not zoology. They don't seem to bite, anyway. Here let's collect some of them instead of the fish. That dingus of yours will hold water. We can take them to the Marine Biology lab tomorrow and find out what they are." Marge Hickin and Gene Towanda had started a world-wide economic revolution.  None of the scientists at the university laboratory knew what the little live straw-colored circles were, either. In fact, after a preliminary study they wouldn't say positively whether the creatures were animal or vegetable ; they displayed voluntary movement, but they seemed to have no respiratory or digestive organs. They were completely anomalous. The grunion ran again that night, and Gene and Marge stayed down to help the laboratory assistants gather several hundred of the strange new objects for further study. They were so numerous that they were swamping the fish, and the crowds at the beach began to grumble that their sport was being spoiled. Next night the grunion stopped running -- but the little doughnuts didn't. They never stopped. They came in by hundreds of thousands every night, and those which nobody gathered wriggled their way over the land until some of them even turned up on the highways (where a lot of them were smashed by automobiles), on the streets and sidewalks of La Jolla, and as far north as Oceanside and as far south as downtown San Diego itself. The things were becoming a pest. There were indigant letters to the papers, and editorials were written calling on the authorities to do something. Just what to do, nobody knew; the only way to kill the circular little objects from the sea seemed to be to crush them -- and they were too abundant for that to be very effective. Meanwhile, the laboratory kept studying them. Marge and Gene were interested enough to come down again the next week-end to find out what, if anything, had been discovered. Not much had: but one of the biochemists at the laboratory casually mentioned that chemically the straw-colored circles seemed to be almost pure protein, with some carbohydrates and fats, and that apparently they contained all the essential vitamins. College student that he was, Gene To wanda immediately swallowed one of the wriggling things down whole, as a joke. It tickled a little, but that wasn't what caused the delighted amazement on his face. "Gosh!" he exclaimed. "It's delicious!" He swallowed another handful. That was the beginning of the great margene industry. It was an astute reporter, getting a feature story on the sensational new food find, who gave the creatures their name, in honor of the boy and girl who had first brought the things to the attention of the scientists. He dubbed them margenes, and margenes they remained. "Dr. O. Y. Willard, director of the laboratory," his story said in part, "thinks the margenes may be the answer to the increasing and alarming problem of malnutrition, especially in undeveloped countries. " 'For decades now, he said, 'scientists have been worried by the growing gap between world population and world food facilities. Over-farming, climatic changes caused by erosion and deforestation, the encroachment of building areas on agricultural land, and above all the unrestricted growth of population, greatest in the very places where food is becoming scarcest and most expensive, have produced a situation where, if no remedy is found, starvation or semi-starvation may be the fate of half the Earth's people. The ultimate result would be the slow degeneration and death of the entire human race. " 'Many remedies have been suggested,' Dr. Willard commented further. 'They range from compulsory birth control to the production of synthetic food, hydroponics, and the harvesting of plankton from the oceans. Each of these presents almost insuperable difficulties. " 'The one ideal solution would be the discovery of some universal food that would be nourishing, very cheap, plentiful, tasty, and that would not violate the taboos of any people anywhere in the world. In the margenes we may have discovered that food.' " 'We don't know where the margenes came from,' the director went on to say, 'and we don't even know yet what they are, biologically speaking. What we do know is that they provide more energy per gram than any other edible product known to man, that everyone who has eaten them is enthusiastic about their taste, that they can be processed and distributed easily and cheaply, and that they are acceptable even to those who have religious or other objections to certain other foods, such as beef, among the Hindus or pork among the Jews and Mohammedans. " 'Even vegetarians can eat them,' Dr. Willard remarked, 'since they are decidely not animal in nature. Neither, I may add, are they vegetable. They are a hitherto utterly unknown synthesis of chemical elements in living form. Their origin remains undiscovered.' " Naturally, there was no thought of feeding people on raw margenes. Only a few isolated places in either hemisphere would have found live food agreeable. Experiment showed that the most satisfactory way to prepare them was to boil them alive, like crabs or lobsters. They could then be ground and pressed into cakes, cut into convenient portions. One one-inch-square cube made a nourishing and delicious meal for a sedentary adult, two for a man engaged in hard physical labor. And they kept coming in from the Pacific Ocean nightly, by the By this time none of them had to be swept off streets or highways. The beach where for nearly a century throngs had gathered for the sport of catching grunion was off bounds now; it was the property of California Margene, Inc., a private corporation heavily subsidized by the Federal Government as an infant industry. The grunions themselves had to find another place to lay their eggs, or die off -- nobody cared which. The sand they had used for countless millennia as an incubator was hemmed in by factory buildings and trampled by margene gatherers. The whole beautiful shore for miles around was devastated; the university had to move its marine biological laboratory elsewhere; La Jolla, once a delightful suburb and tourist attraction, had become a dirty, noisy honkytonk town where processing and cannery workers lived and spent their off-hours; the unique Torrey Pines had been chopped down because they interfered with the erection of a freight airport. But half the world's people were living on margenes. The sole possession of this wonderful foodstuff gave more power to the United States than had priority in the atomic bomb. Only behind the Iron Curtain did the product of California Margene, Inc. fail to penetrate. Pravda ran parallel articles on the same day, one claiming that margenes -- brzdich noya -- had first appeared long ago on a beach of the Caspian Sea and had for years formed most of the Russian diet ; the other warning the deluded nations receiving free supplies as part of American foreign aid that the margenes had been injected with drugs aimed at making them weak and submissive to the exploitation of the capitalist-imperialists. There was a dangerous moment at the beginning when the sudden sharp decline in stocks of all other food products threatened another #. But with federal aid a financial crash was averted and now a new high level of prosperity had been established. Technological unemployment was brief, and most of the displaced workers were soon retained for jobs in one of the many ramifications of the new margene industry. Agriculture, of course, underwent a short deep depression, not only in America but all over the world; but it came to an end as food other than margenes quickly became a luxury product. Farmers were able to cut their production to a small fraction of the former yield, and to get rich on the dizzying prices offered for bread, apples, or potatoes. And this increased the prosperity of the baking and other related industries as well. In fact, ordinary food costs (which meant margene costs) were so low that a number of the larger unions voluntarily asked for wage decreases in their next contracts. California Margene, Inc. was able to process, pack, and distribute margene cakes at an in finitesimal retail price, by reason of the magnitude of the output. An era of political good feeling, fell upon the western world, reflected from the well-fed comfort of vast populations whose members never before in their lives had had quite enough to eat. The fear of famine seemed to be over forever, and with it the fear of the diseases and the social unrest that follow famine. Even the U.S.S.R. and its satellites, in a conciliatory move in the United Nations Assembly, suggested that the long cold war ought to be amenable to a reasonable solution through a series of amicable discussions. The western nations, assenting, guessed shrewdly that the Iron Curtain countries "wanted in" on the margenes. Marge Hickin and Gene Towanda, who had started it all, left college for copywriting jobs with the agency handling the enormous margene publicity; they were married a few months later. And the margenes continued to come in from the sea in countless vested now from the Pacific itself, near the shoreline, before they reached the beach. Still no research could discover their original source. Only a few scientists worried about wha would happen if the margenes should disappear as suddenly as they had arrived. Attempts at breeding the creatures had failed completely. They did not undergo fission, they did not sporulate, they seemed to have no sex. No methods of reproduction known in the plant or animal kingdom seemed to apply to them. Hundreds of them were kept alive for long periods -- they lived with equal ease in either air or water, and they did not take nourishment, unless they absorbed it from their environment -- but no sign of fertility ever appeared. Neither did they seem to die of natural causes. They just kept coming in... On the night of May #, #, not a single margene was visible in the ocean or on the beach. They never came again. What happened as a result is known to every student of history. The world-wide economic collapse, followed by the fall of the most stable governments, the huge riots that arose from the frantic attempts to get possession of the existing stocks of margene cakes or of the rare luxury items of other edibles, the announcement by the U.S.S.R. that it had known from the beginning the whole thing was a gigantic American hoax in the interests of the imperialistic bloodsuckers, the simultaneous atomic attacks by east and west, the Short War of # that ruined most of what bombs had spared of the Earth, the slow struggle back of the remnant of civilization which is all of existence you and I have ever known -- all these were a direct outgrowth of that first appearance of the margenes on the beach near San Diego on an April night in #. Marge and Gene Towanda were divorced soon after they had both lost their jobs. She was killed in the hydrogen blast that wiped out San Diego; he fell in the War of #. "Margene" became a dirty word in every language on Earth. What small amount of money and ability can be spared is, as everyone knows, devoted today to a desperate international effort to reach and colonize another habitable planet of the Solar System, if such there be. As for the margenes, themselves, come, only a few thousand were lucky enough to survive and find their way back to their overcrowded starting-point. In their strange way of communication -- as incomprehensible to us as would be their means of nourishment and reproduction, or their constitution itself -- they made known to their kin what had happened to them. There is no possibility, in spite of the terrific over-population of their original home and of the others to which they are constantly migrating, that they will ever come here again. There has been much speculation, particularly among writers of science fiction, on what would happen if aliens from other planets should invade Earth. Would they arrive as benefactors or as conquerors? Would we welcome them or would we overcome and capture them and put them in zoos and museums? Would we meet them in friendship or with hostility? The margenes gave us the answer. Beings from outer space came to Earth in #. And we ate them.    The Star-Studded April IF Robert F. Young spins a biting and pungent satire about what happens when a civilization makes the symbolic bluebird of happiness a reality and rebuilds its automobile showrooms to resemble cathedrals. With a carburetor for a heart, newly sprouted chrome wings and wheels for feet, this Bluebird perches on a pedestal in the Church of the Happy Traveler. And with the help of such people as the Finance Bishop and such institutional rites as New Car Sunday, it supplants the green pastures and still that old master Raymond F. Jones, and an excitement-filled space advenmore of the best-liked writers in science fiction. All this in addition to the popular features always to be found in IF... Ask your nearest news dealer to reserve your copy now! Illustrated by Kelly Freas ing against dense air, while the passengers talked, and laughed, and pressed their faces against the observation ports. In the ship's lounge, a squawk box crackled... "Twenty minutes," a mechanical voice said... "We land on Centauri IV in twenty minutes... Passengers for Orion, Antares, Cygni, and Polaris, have your transfers ready." Everyone laughed. The speaker clicked and went dead. And the boy who'd been gripping Claude Marshall's arm looked up. "What's he mean, Pop? We don't really have to transfer, do we?" Claude Marshall smiled. "No, Billy. This is as far as we're going -- as far as anyone's going." "But he said -- " "He was only joking, Billy. Maybe someday people will be going to those places, but not now." He glanced at his wife, sitting with her hands folded in her lap... "I'm glad it's over, Joan," he said. "It's been a long trip -- a very long trip." The woman nodded. She had dark hair, and blue eyes, and minute lines of maturity around her eyes and mouth that seemed to soften, rather than age her. She looked almost too young to have mothered a nine-year-old boy -- but of course that was one of the requirements. "Is this where we're going to live?" the boy asked. Claude looked out the port. "Yes, Billy. This is where we're going to live." "Why?" "I've already told you why. Don't you remember when I showed you the pictures, and asked you how you'd like to live where you'd have lots of room to play, and wouldn't have to worry about the bombs or anything?" "Sure, Pop," the boy said. "I remember. But tell me about it again? Claude looked at his wife; watched her nod, and answer his smile. "All right," he said. He raised his arm over the foamcushion seat-back till it rested on the boy's shoulder. "You see, Billy, things back on Earth are pretty bad -- have been for over  hundred years now. There's too many cities, too many wars, and too many people -- it's mostly too many people. They don't have room to move around any more the way they used to... "To make it worse there are always some people who figure that someone else has a little more room than they have, so they try to take it away from them by starting a war. Not that war ever solves anything. It's just that some people think it will." "That's why we left, huh, Pop?" "Yes, Billy. That's why we left. The problem was to find some place new; some place where a man had room to move -- room to breathe. For a long while it didn't look as if there was such a place -- not in our solar system anyhow. But one day a few years before you were born, a fellow by the name of Vincent Taibi made a trip out here to Centauri... It was a long trip. Took him thirteen years to get out here and back. But the important thing is that he came back with some news... He came back and reported that there was an uninhabited planet out here, just about the size of the Earth, that was as fresh and new as it was the day God made it." "That's when we got on this ship. Right, Pop?" Claude frowned. "Well, not' exactly. You see, Son, to begin with this is a long trip -- so long, and so expensive, that no one except mayto afford it. Anyhow, the government wanted young people out here : people who could colonize the place... They ran a lot of tests, Son." "Tests?" Claude nodded and turned to his wife. "The tests," he said. "You remember the tests, Joan?" "Yes, Claude. I remember. It's been six years, but I remember them as if they happened yesterday." "I don't, Pop." "That's 'cause you were too young, Son. You didn't have to take the tests... You were lucky." "Claude! Billy's not interested in that. Besides they were necessary." "Necessary! All those psychiatrists? Oh come, Joan... I felt as if they were picking my brain with an ice pick!" "But they had to be careful, Claude." "Careful, yes... But eight months of tests -- every day!" "Claude!" The woman's tone was severe. "Why did they have to be careful, Pop?" Billy asked. "They wanted to be sure, Son. They didn't want anyone out here who was sick, or lazy, or who wanted to start a war. They figured if the right kind of people came out here, Centifor would stay as fresh and clean as it was the day that Captain Taibi first landed here." The boy looked out the porthole. "We'll sure have lots of room here, won't we, Pop?" "Yes, Son. We'll have lots of room. The government's given us title to a hundred acres of what's just about the best land in the Universe... I showed you the pictures of our land, didn't I?" "Sure, Pop. Lots of times." The woman laughed. "About a thousand times, I'd imagine... Those pictures have been looked at so much, they're frayed at the corners." They landed on a concrete apron, nestled between ridges of rolling hills. The jets belched, hissed, went out, and from a ranch type structure at the edge of the area, a jeep, towing a portable ramp moved out to meet them. There was a gentle bump. Hatches hissed open. And then the passengers began to move down the ramp. Among the last to emerge into the bright, warm sunshine, were Claude and Joan Marshall. Each clasping a hand of their son, they stood at the top of the ramp, breathing deep gulps of sweetsmelling air, and staring at the boundless horizon of the fresh, new world. Clean and unspoiled it was, like an immense green carpet, dotted of wildflowers that soaked nourishment out of topsoil twenty inches deep. A paradise planet, free of bustling crowds and concrete cities. Untainted by littered alleyways, and dirty kiosks, and the abominable smells of cosmopolitan chaos... In place of these was a sunsoaked, fairy-like landscape capped by fleecy white clouds that hung motionless in a sky of robin's-egg blue. Claude stabbed an index finger at the patchwork quilt of green and yellow. "Look Joan... Our land! You can see it from here!" "Where, Claude?" "Out there... See? Way out. Beyond those lakes!" "Oh, Claude. How can you be sure?" "I remember it from the maps -- and the pictures... Our land is just twenty-eight miles from this landing strip, and you cross three ridges of hills to get to it... See? One... two... three!" "Is that where we're going to live. Pop?" "Yes, Son. That's where we're going to live. And there isn't a better piece of land anywhere... I know!" At the gentle urging of the attendant, they moved off the ramp and melted into the group of passengers drifting toward the ranchtype building at the edge of the area. A sign over the building said : man was standing in front of it. The man wasn't old by Earth standards, but leathery skin, and steel-grey patches of hair around his temples made him look very ancient alongside the composite youth of the newly-arrived settlers. The older man waited till the group had formed a tight semicircle around him. Then he smiled and held up both hands. "Welcome to Centifor," he said. "My name is Leon Stubbs, and I am the Director of Colonization." He waited till the undercurrent of muttering had died down, and went on : "I know how anxious you all are to settle on your own land, but because immediate transportation is unavailable, there will be a slight delay. During this time you will be quartered here at the reception center." Claude Marshall leaned close to his wife's ear. "We're lucky, Joan," he whispered. "We don't have to worry about transportation. We can walk to our land if we have to." Leon Stubbs said : "If any of you have any questions, feel free to speak up... That's why I'm here." He stopped, and pointed at a thinfaced youth with one arm raised while a young, and obviously pregnant girl held onto the other. "Yes, Sir." "We've been wondering," the youth said. "Are our building materials ready yet?" "Some of them are," the director said, "and some of them aren't. Production here isn't quite what it should be yet. When you've been here a while, you'll realize that because of our relatively small numbers, and comparative inexperience in economic matters, we're a tightly-knit group... We have to be. "There is one thing however that works in our favor. There are no irrationals or psychological deviants on Centifor. The tests took care of that. They were rough, I know. They were supposed to be rough. And now that you're here you'll all be facing another test... The test of practical application. "Some of you are fortunate in the respect that you've been awarded land reasonably close to the spaceport area. Some of you are not so fortunate, and will have to travel several hundred miles. Perhaps those of you in this latter category will find some consolation in the fact that since you left Terra, the government has started a movement to populate the other side of the planet. As a matter of fact, all future applications will be assigned to that area." Claude looked at his wife. And she looked back at him. They didn't speak. They didn't have to. It was common knowledge that Centifor was a planet of contrast. It was a Jekyll and Hyde planet... One side was a veritable Utopia. And the other? Claude shuddered at the thought of hacking a living out of the razor-backed mountains and bare patches of rocky soil that were frozen stiff nine months out of every thirteen. "If there are no other questions," the Director said. "We'll get on with the business of setting you up in temporary quarters." Twelve hours later, Claude Marshall and his family stood on the ramp of the spaceport watching the blue-tinted sun edge itself over the rim of the planet. The decision to pack a few immediate necessities and walk to the homestead instead of waiting for transportation had been arrived at the night before. It was ridiculous, Claude had argued, to waste time at the reception center, when the culmination of a ten year dream lay just twenty-eight miles away. Especially so, since the Director had informed them that the materials for their prefab home was already waiting for them on the land. Nor were they alone in their eagerness to begin a new way of life. Other settlers -- some of them burdened-down with supplies that almost equalled their own weight -- had already started a trek over the virgin landscape. In twos and threes, they plodded into the gently-sloping valley. Some of them moved slowly, some eagerly. All of them looked like tiny ants on a giant pool table. Marshall adjusted the knapsack across his shoulders with an air of finality. "Let's go, Joan," he said. "Stay close, Billy. We have a long walk ahead of us." They started into the valley. Two hours later they stopped to rest. They stopped on a patch of rich, green turf in the shadow of a broad-leaf tree. The spaceport, flanked by its low-slung buildings, was still visible, but from seven miles away the buildings looked in credibly tiny. Like miniatures out of a Christmas kit. But the thing that impressed them most was the quiet -- a strange sort of quiet, free of the whir of copter blades, landcar horns, and other nerve-shattering noises. Instead, there was only the rustle of a mild breeze through the tree branches, and the sound of their own breathing. Marshall lay on his back, his fingers laced behind his neck. "I feel rested, Joan," he said "We've just walked seven miles, but I feel rested." "I know, Claude. I feel the same way. It must be the air. The air feels different." "Wouldn't it be nice if it'd always stay this way. Fresh and unspoiled, I mean. I know it won't, but wouldn't it be nice if it did." "It will, Claude. It will for as long as we live anyhow, and for as long as Billy lives. That's what's important. We're very lucky, Claude." "I can't help thinking of the people back on Earth. I feel sorry for them." "They could do what we did. They could take the tests." "I know. But even if they did, what would they have? Who'd want to homestead the other side of this planet? Who'd want to live out there anyway?" "I would, Pop," Billy said. "No you wouldn't. Son. Don't you remember those black mountains we saw from the ship when we came in?" "Sure, Pop." "Well that's what the other side of the planet is like. Only you couldn't tell what it was really like because we were too high. You wouldn't like it if you had to live there. It's cold, and rocky, and there's only six hours of daylight out of every twenty-six." "I wouldn't like it then," the boy said. "I don't like the dark." Claude got up and looked at his wife. "Shall we move along," he said. They pushed ahead. Eagerly, yet slowly enough to absorb the world's endless beauty; stopping at the crest of each new hill; kneeling at the shores of crystal lakes to quench their thirst; and scooping up handfuls of rich, black soil in spots where the turf had become dislodged. The sun of Centauri was almost at zenith when they approached the crest of the ridge that bounded the Marshall homestead. Claude's pace, which had been quickening steadily for the final mile, burst into a jagged trot for the final hundred uphill yards. At the top of the hill he stopped, staring into the lush, green valley, ignoring his family who'd been unable to keep pace with his eagerness. The homestead was all that the color photos had advertised -- and more. It was all there. The flat, rich turf, the stream running through the center of the valley, and the grove of trees under which he'd build the prefab house. He'd anticipated the moment so many times, it was hard to believe it had really arrived. But it was real -- it was. Everything was exactly as he'd expected to find it... except for one thing. Always in his imagination, the land had been waiting for him to claim it. Him alone -- and his wife and son. But they weren't alone... There were other people on the land. On his land! And they were acting as if they lived there! a man, a woman, and a boy of about nineteen. The woman appeared to be cooking a meal over a wood fire, while the man and boy were arranging a foundation pattern with part of the stack of building materials which had been earmarked for the house. For his house! Joan and Billy drew up alongside him, and together they stared at the intruders. "Who are they, Claude?" his wife said. "What does it mean?" "I don't know, honey. Maybe they just stopped here to eat. That's what it must be." "But the men. The way they're measuring... As if they're going to build." "We'll straighten it out, Joan... Probably some mistake. I have our land title. That'll prove they've made a mistake. Come on. We'll talk to them." The intruders stopped what they were doing as they approached, and the man -- a huge, block-shouldered fellow in a leather jacket -- pushed out a hand. The man said : "Hello. My name's Whiting -- Bruce Whiting." Claude took the hand. "Claude Marshall," he said. "And this is my wife and my son." The man who called himself Whiting nodded, and looked over at his wife. "We're fixing dinner," he said. "Why don't you and your family join us before you push on?" Claude watched the man's face while he spoke. It was an open face. Guileless. With ruddy skin and mild, grey eyes that twinkled a bit at the corners. "We're not pushing on," he said evenly. We're staying. This is our land." Bruce Whiting smiled. "There must be some mistake. This land is ours. The boy and I are just fixing to start building." Claude shook his head. "Not here you're not. Not on this land." He spoke quietly ; trying to keep his voice pitched below the emotion that churned up inside him. "What's wrong, Dad?" The man's son joined them... He was a big strapping lad, with sandy hair and very bright skin. "These people are looking for their homestead," the man with the jacket said. "They think this is their site." "You think wrong, Mister," the youth said. "We double checked this location three times before we made camp... Right?" He turned to the older man for confirmation. Whiting nodded. "The boy's right. This land is ours. We've got a deed to prove it." "So have I," Claude said frowning. "It's right here in the luggage... Wait. I'll show you..." He bent over, unzipping the knapsack and rummaged around till he produced the manila envelope that held the title papers. Bruce Whiting examined them carefully; first the neat rows of fine print, then the dozen glossy colorphotos which had been taken on the property from strategic angles. He shook his head and turned to his son. "Get our titles, Frank," he said. The boy left, returning within seconds with a similar manila envelope. Bruce Whiting opened it and pushed a handful of papers at Claude. While his wife and son watched, Claude Marshall went through the papers methodically... They were all there. All the measurements; looking like duplicates, backed up by photos that had apparently been developed from the same negatives... He glanced at his wife. "Something's wrong, Joan," he said. "Mr. Whiting has a claim on this land too. It's just like ours... Exactly!" "But I don't understand, Claude." "It's not too hard to understand, Mrs. Marshall," Whiting said. "It just means that someone in Washington loused up the detail. They're always making mistakes like that... I figure some clerk -- " "But what are we supposed to do?" Bruce Whiting moved his shoulders. "I don't know, Mrs. Marshall. I just don't know... After all we were here first . Why don't you take it up with the Colonization Director?... Maybe there's another tract he could give you." "I don't want another tract," Claude said flatly. "I want this one." "So do I, Mr. Marshall." "But the land's mine!" "Is it? How about my title? It's just as valid as yours." "That'll be for the law to decide," Claude said grimly, "And we'll fight you on it. By God, we'll fight you on it all the way from here to Washington and back!" "That's up to you, of course. In the meantime, may I remind you that I hold possession?" Claude Marshall bit his lip. "Let's go Joan," he said. "Where, Claude?" "Back to the spaceport. We'll get a ruling on this." "But it's getting dark. Can't we make camp someplace and go back tomorrow?" "I'm hungry," Billy said. "We can eat later, Son." Bruce Whiting continued to regard them sullenly. Then abruptly, his face softened. "Wait," he said. "Don't go. Your wife's right, Mr. Marshall. You can't make the trip after dark. Why don't you and your family camp here for the night... Alice has supper nearly ready and there's more than enough to go around..." "We have our own rations," Claude said. Bruce Whiting spread out his hands. "Look, Mr. Marshall. I know how you feel. I know, because it's the same way I feel. I guess a man can't help the way he feels when something threatens the thing he's been dreaming about all his life. But it isn't my fault that this happened any more than it's your fault. Since the problem concerns both of us, I suggest we sit down and discuss it like intelligent human beings." "Mr. Whiting's right," Joan said. "After all it isn't his fault -- " "Another thing," Bruce Whiting went on. "I'm expecting a halftrac out here tomorrow with some supplies. If you and your family wanted to, there's no reason why we couldn't all ride back with him... Maybe we could get this thing straightened out then and still be friends." Claude flicked a look toward the far-off hills that were haloed by the last rays of a strange sun. Within moments it would be dark. And a few yards away a woman threw  another log on the fire and the pungent aroma of boiling coffee drifted across his nostrils. "I'm hungry," Billy repeated. Claude held out his hand. "I'm sorry," he said. "As you say: this isn't our fault. We're just caught in the middle." The ate picnic-style, off plastic dishes, while Bruce Whiting kept up a continuous stream of conversation, aided from time to time by his comely wife. The Whiting's story was a familiar one. He'd been with an advertising agency when the colonization urge had struck him... That was ten years ago... He'd talked it over with his wife, and together they'd weighed the chances of surviving the rigid tests that eliminated # of the applicants. The story had a pattern you could play by ear. Just another man, and another woman, and another boy now in his teens, who'd grown tired of the struggle for survival in a world that begrudged a man the space occupied by his own body. And when the meal was over, Joan helped Alice Whiting with the dishes, while the men sat around the fire and smoked. It was dark out now -- a strange kind of incredibly bright stars and the nearby glow of the crackling wood fire. Bruce Whiting's cordiality was contagious too. Claude found himself talking now ; describing his wants, his ideas, and his ideals. And when the women returned to the circle, the conversation turned to other subjects. They discussed clothes, their children, and the future of the planet. Only one subject was carefully avoided. And that was the one that was foremost in the minds of all of them. They were still talking when the fire had settled into weary heaps of smouldering embers. Then the two families excused themselves and retired to the canvas lean-to's wondering what the next day would hold in store for them. was almost at zenith the next day, when the half-trac arrived with the supplies. The driver -- an amiable man -- listened patiently while Bruce and Claude related the mixup, and as had been expected, agreed to transport them back to the base. The two families rode together in the open back of the vehicle as it jounced over the mildly sloping terrain. And yet the ride was not unpleasant. The immensity of the planet was breathtaking. It was exactly as the colorcasts had pictured it -- only better, incredibly better. No TV travelogue could adequately describe the tang of the air, or the scent of the sweet-smelling grass. God had indeed been generous with this portion of the planet. It was hard to believe that the opposite side was a rocky wasteland that would probably fight colonization for another thousand years. Almost before they knew it, they were at the spaceport. Sometime during the night, another ship had arrived. It stood majestically at the far end of the apron, towering over a knot of tiny figures grouped around the rudder stanchions. The driver swooped past them and brought the half-trac to a halt in front of the reception center where they observed the Colonization Director watching them through the window of his office. Inside, Leon Stubbs greeted them cordially and ushered them into an inner office containing a metal desk and a dozen file cabinets. The Director listened patiently, shaking his head from time to time and muttering remarks about government inefficiency... When they'd finished, he ran his hand through his greying hair. "This, of course, is an outrage, Gentlemen," he said. "But before I can do anything, I'll have to check both your claims." He indicated the file cabinets. "It may take a little time but I'll get at it right away. As a matter of fact I believe they're serving lunch at the mess hall now. Why don't you all have lunch and come back in about an hour. I'll know more about the situation then." Leon Stubbs shuffled through some papers on the desk, indicating dismissal. The two men joined their families in the anteroom. After an awkward silence, Bruce Whiting and his family excused themselves, leaving the Marshall's alone. "What did he say, Claude? Tell me! What did he say?" "He doesn't know yet, honey. He's checking the claims. We're supposed to come back in an hour." "But it will be all right, won't it. It's got to be all right!" "I don't know, Joan. So help me, I don't know... We can't both have the land. That's for sure. One of us will have to settle for someplace else." "Suppose we did have to take another tract, Claude. Would you be disappointed -- I mean, really disappointed... After all, isn't the important thing the fact that we're here?" Claude managed a smile. "I suppose so," he admitted. "It's just that it comes as sort of a letdown. For almost seven years now we've been looking at the pictures of this land. We knew where we'd build the house, what portion we'd farm... I know every tree, every square inch of it... And now -- " "But there's other land. We've only seen a small portion of the planet." He shook his head. "Not like this. This claim has everything. What's more, Whiting knows it. That's why he'll fight us on it all the way." "They seem like nice people. Claude. Couldn't we talk to them... make some sort of deal?" "A deal? What sort of deal?" "A hundred acres is a lot of land -- an awful lot of land... Maybe the Whitings would -- " "Uh uh. No good. I've already felt him out on that. I had the same idea last night, so I came right out and asked him if he'd settle for fifty acres apiece... He refused. Oh, he was nice enough about it. But he gave me to understand it was all or nothing with him." "I'm hungry," Billy said. Claude looked at his wife. "So am I. Let's go over to the mess hall. That's where the Whitings went, I think." "Claude?" "Yes, Joan." "Let's not sit with them, if we meet them there." "All right, honey. Let's not." They were halfway to the door when Leon Stubbs came out of the inner office. He smiled. "Mind stepping inside a moment ?" he said. When Claude hesitated, he added : "Perhaps Mrs. Marshall had better come in too." They followed him inside where the Director indicated two chairs alongside the desk. "I've been checking your claims," he said. "And since you were still here, I didn't think it advisable to prolong the suspense." Claude glanced at his wife. "You mean it's all right... the land is ours?" The Director sat down and spread open a pair of folders on the desk. For a long while he stared at them -- comparing them. He shook his head. "I'm afraid not, Mr. Marshall. I'm afraid it isn't all right." "But our claim. It's valid, isn't it?" Leon Stubbs ran a hand through his greying hair. "I don't know," he said. "Naturally the fault for processing duplicate claims lies with the colonization bureau in Washington. Eventually, I suppose it will be up to them to decide on the disposition of this case... However, because of the timelag in communications, I have full authority to pass down temporary decisions in matters of this type... And because Mr. Whiting's claim is dated several days ahead of yours, I must in all fairness award the land to him... You and your wife can appeal that decision of course." "We'll appeal, Mr. Stubbs," Claude said angrily. "After all, this mess is the government's fault. Not ours! It's up to them to straighten it out." "That's up to you," Leon Stubbs said. "Although I'm sure you realize that in the meantime you'll have to make some temporary arrangments." "Temporary arrangments?" "Yes, Mr. Marshall. Even assuming the government decides in your favor -- which I doubt -- you'll have to live somewhere while the case is being processed... And that will take some time." "How long?" Leon Stubbs shuffled through the papers again. "You know about the time-lag, don't you?" "No. What about the time-lag?" The Director met his stare. "I thought you knew. Actually the only communication we have with Terra short of space travel, is by short wave radio, and radio waves as you may know travel at approximately the speed of light. Since we are approximately # lightyears away from Earth, a round trip message to Washington would take about nine years. This of course does not take into consideration the time needed to process your case." Claude kept watching the Director's face while he spoke. He looked like an honest man. To all intents and purposes he was simply a public servant performing a distasteful duty. Yet there was something about his voice that had an all-too-familiar ring... Something that hinted he was leading up to an offer. Claude cleared his throat. "All right, Mr. Stubbs. So you've convinced me of the futility of appealing the claim. What now?" Leon Stubbs bit off the end of a cigar and lit it before answering. "I've arranged to give you and your family an alternate claim, Mr. Marshall. Of course it isn't quite as desirable as the original one. But under the circumstances -- " He let the sentence trail off. "I see," Claude said. "And where is this alternate claim?" Stubbs examined the end of his cigar. "It's on the other side of the planet, Mr. Marshall. I'm sorry, but that's the best I can do." At his elbow, Claude caught the sharp intake of his wife's breath. "It really isn't too bad," the Director went on. "Many of the reports about the cold-side have been exaggerated." "I'm sure they have," Claude said bitterly. "I'm sure it's just the place to bring up a nine-year-old boy." "Please Mr. Marshall. Don't be bitter. It isn't my fault." Claude got up placing his palms on the edge of the metal desk. He leaned forward till his face was only inches away from the Director's cigar, and said: "Isn't it?" The Director didn't answer. Instead he got up and walked over to the open window. For ten full seconds he stared out at the lush valley that flanked the spaceport. Then he turned. "You want my advice, Mr. Marshall?" Claude shrugged his shoulders. "Go home," Leon Stubbs said. ,c You can't bring up a boy on the cold-side. It just wouldn't work." "But we just got here," Joan said. "We sold everything we had to come here!" Stubbs nodded. "I know," he said. He indicated the folders. "It's all there in your records. Six years ago you left Terra with sixthousand credits. But surely with that kind of money you could get a fresh start almost anywhere." "But we want to stay here, Mr. Stubbs." Stubbs took a drag out of the. cigar. "I know," he said woodenly. Claude remained silent, regarding the conversation carefully. A pattern was beginning to form now -- a familar pattern. He walked over to where the Director was standing. "Perhaps you could make a suggestion, Mr. Stubbs. Surely there must be opportunities on this side of the planet for a man with sixthousand credits?" "I'm not quite sure what you're getting at," Leon Stubbs said. "I think you do, Mr. Stubbs," Claude retorted. "I think we're both getting at the same thing. Suppose we dispense with the subtleties and get down to cases." The Director sat down at the desk pyramiding his fingertips. "Very well, Mr. Marshall," he said. "I'll be blunt. It's occurred to me that if the date on your claim were changed, the land would naturally be yours. The difficulty of course lies in the fact that there are duplicate records on Terra and we'd have to take care of the man who handles them. Otherwise the discrepancy would show up eventually. Actually, I want nothing for myself but these people in Washington -- " "Yeah, I know," Claude interrupted. "It's someone else who's getting the money. It's always someone else who's getting the money." "It would take quite a bit, I'm afraid," the Director said ignoring the sarcasm. "How much?" The Director stubbed out the end of his cigar. "About five thousand," he said. "Yes. Five thousand ought to do it." Claude looked at his wife. And she looked back at him. Outside, Billy had tired of the seven-year-old magazine and was hammering on the door for admittance. "Can we have a few minutes to think it over?" Claude said. "Certainly," Stubbs said amiably. "And I want to make it quite clear, Mr. Marshall, that this money is not for me. There's this fellow -- " "Yeah, I know. There's this fellow in Washington. Come on Joan. Let's step outside a moment." Stubbs answered their knock and ushered them to the desk chairs. After they were seated, he said: "I take it you've talked it over." Claude nodded. "Yes, Mr. Stubbs. My wife and I talked it over and we came to a decision." "I'm glad," the Director said. "And may I say I think you're doing a wise thing. Centifor's a beautiful place. Simply beautiful..." "Yes it is," Claude agreed. "It is beautiful. That's why we'd like to see it stay that way." The Director raised an eyebrow. "My wife and I talked it over," Claude went on, "and we decided that taking someone else's land whether it's done by theft, force, or bribery is wrong. We thought of this place as something fresh and clean. We thought all those tests we took were designed to keep people like you out of here. Now it appears we were mistaken. We've talked it over, Mr. Stubbs, and we've decided to go back to Earth and expose you." "But you can't," the Director said. "You've -- " "Yes we can," Claude said. "The ships go back practically empty. A return berth will be no trouble at all. We're returning on the first ship out." "Perhaps we could make a better deal." Stubbs said. "Perhaps five thousand is too much. Perhaps -- " "No. No deals! Let's go Joan." They went outside, into the fresh warm sunshine, staring at the torpedo shaped spaceship standing in the clearance area half-a-mile away. They'd just started toward it, when a jeep squealed up alongside them. Bruce Whiting was at the wheel. "Hi," he said. "Hop in. I'll give you a lift." "Thanks," Claude said without bitterness. He helped his wife and son into the rear seat and climbed in beside the driver. "I suppose congratulations are in order," he said as the other man threw the vehicle into gear. "Stubbs tells me the land is yours now." The driver nodded, inching down on the accelerator. The vehicle leaped forward. At seventy miles an hour, they swooped past the spaceship and the knot of people standing in the shadow of the rudder stanchions. "Hey. Slow up!" Claude yelled. "We're getting off here. We're booking return passage on that ship!" Whiting didn't answer. The low slung buildings of the clearance area leaped up at them and passed into the background. They were heading into open country now. "Whiting! Turn around. We're staying here in the clearance area!" Whiting's foot slacked off the accelerator. The speedometer dropped to fifty. But the vehicle kept moving into open country. The man at the wheel flicked a look at Claude and smiled. "Congratulations, Mr. Marshall," he said. "You've passed the final test." "Test? I don't understand." "Let me explain then," Bruce Whiting said. "In the first place my name isn't Whiting... It's Reed -- Paul Reed. I work for the government. This final test -- the one you just went through -- was designed to weed out any undesirables who might have slipped through our screening processes back on Earth. "You mean this whole build up was just a test?" The other man nodded. "We give it to every new arrival here. Now that you've passed, I'm driving you out to your homestead site." Claude looked back at the newlyarrived spaceship and the tiny figures who were huddled at its base. "All those people," he said. "You mean they still have to go through what we did?" The driver shook his head. "No. Those people are going back to Earth. You see, Mr. Marshall, those are the people who offered Leon Stubbs the bribe." # -- Tungsten. # -- #. # -- Magellanic Clouds. # -- Rarer. # -- Great Circle Chart. # -- Googol. # -- Saturn. # -- Chlorophyll. #I -- Yes. # -- Magnetic field.  briefs structure may be replaced with real bones. A team of scientists has succeeded in taking the minerals out of animal bones, making them soft and spongelike. Then they have been able to reharden or recalcify them by treating them with certain chemicals and placing them in a solution similar to body fluids. This finding presents the possibility that dentists may be able to rake this soft "demineralized" bone, treat it chemically, and then insert it as a cavity where it would harden and become part of the tooth. In addition, teeth may be prevented from falling out by building the bone up around them. Orthopedic surgeons may also be able to use this process to speed the healing of fractures or to replace bones lost by accident or disease. A picture of Medicine at the end of the century, recently presented before the American Medical Association, reveals, some remarkable improvements. It predicts the eradication of all human infectious diseases, including tuberculosis, rheumatic heart disease, diphtheria, pneumonia and even the common cold and other respiratory ills. Cancer will be treated successfully by turning viruses against it. Eye surgeons will have restored vision where successful treatment today can only be called "wishful thinking". Starvation will no longer exist because of the successful synthesis of foodstuffs. Deaf mutes will speak by use of portable electronic devices. Vital organs such as the heart, kidney, pancreas and lungs will be transplanted from person to person. Insulin will be taken in tablet form. There will have been effective treatments against high blood pressure, arteriosclerosis, degenerative heart disease, leukemia and pernicious anemia. Hormone medication will keep women young, beautiful and shapely indefinitely. Need for a signalling system much faster than today's dial system has spurred the development of a new device so fast that it may well do away with the dial. Developed by Bell laboratories, the device is called a polytonic coder and is based on a new mathematical concept of electronic coding. A test model will send # digits a second over almost all telephone connections. To make use of this new super speed, the present dialing system would have to be replaced by a push-button system. With such a phone, you would punch out the number you want on buttons while the receiver is still on the hook. When the receiver is lifted the called number's phone will start ringing. If the fine is busy you needn't dial again; the button setting will remain until you change it. Smokers may soon be bombarded with advertising about "the cigarette with the built-in ashtray". A new glass-fiber paper developed by the National Bureau of Standardis does the trick. It will not bum, but holds the ashes in place until the cigarette is smoked down to the point where it is thrown away. Made from glass fibers ## of an inch thick, the new paper is also one of the best smoke filters. It allows only one smoke particle in # to pass through. Made by forcing molten glass through tiny holes and then stretching the fibers in hot air, the new paper is eight times as strong as previous papers and has a smooth silky texture. With thirty dollars worth of equipment you will be able to turn your car of the future into a rolling Geiger counter. The equipment consists of a Geiger-Mueller tube and a few associated components. Radiation is indicated by either telltale clicks on the speaker of the car radio or by the movement of a needle on a dashboard-mounted meter. In addition to normal use, the speaker could also be used to receive instructions from civil defense authorities in time of atomic warfare, while the meter would warn of radiation. Designed to detect radiation within a fifty-foot radius, the unit would not only serve to warn occupants of danger but would make the car available for monitoring during emergency. Fishermen will soon be taking along electric light bulbs for bait. Norwegian technicians have devised i, metal container with four windows through which an electric light shines. When the apparatus is lowered into the water, the light attracts the fish to swim close to it. The lower part of the container, lying in darkness, is equipped with hooks. When the gear is jerked upwards the dazzled fish are theoretically hooked. In trawling several of the light ray sinkers are placed on a special hoop set at the mouth of a trawl net The fish attracted to the light, gather in front of the net, thus considerably increasing the catch. The gear has showed some extremely promising results in tests made by the Fish and Wildlife Service in the Pacific Ocean and in salmon fisheries. Farms of the future may be dotted with artificial ponds instead of grainfields. Experiments have shown that the common pond weed is equal or superior to alfalfa meal in a pig-fattening diet. The mosslike weed which can be found in even a goldfish bowl yields from # to # tons of green weight per acre in a test pond in Kansas. It also replaces itself within three months. The dehydrated meal resembles alfalfa meal but is darker and less dusty. Besides feeding cattle from the pond weed, the artificial ponds also serve as a boon to irrigation problems and as an extra source of proteins in the form of fish. Electrical batteries a decade hence will be powered with by-product atomic radiation converted directly into electricity. Radioisotopes from the debris of United States atomic power reactors might furnish the radiation that could be converted into electrical energy equivalent to # watts from the annual production of batteries. The possible substitution of atomic batteries for the conventional chemical ones is foreseen by scientists at the R.C.A. corporation. The most desirable radioactive wastes for the purpose include strontium # and yttrium #, and tritium or tripleweight hydrogen. These are cheap enough for such use and also have a long enough life. Other predictions for the atomic age made at a recent conference concerning waste debris from the reactors included: Preservation of foodstuffs by cold sterilization; sterilization of medical supplies such as antibiotics drugs and bandages, to make them safer after they are packed for shipment; prevention of trichinosis by irradiating hog carcasses; and making bones, heart tissues and other materials from "banks' used in human replacement surgery safe for use by irradiating them with gamma rays from cobalt #. The cold sterilization of food promises to usher in as radical a revolution in food preservation as the invention of canning produced for heat sterilization. And the success of bone grafts with gamma radiated material has already proved the value of the technique in surgery. A new look in flying suits will soon be apparent and both passengers and pilots may well be wearing them for high altitude flying. Called a "T" suit, the garment fits rather like an old-fashioned corset and needs almost as much assistance to tighten the many laces properly. Once snugly wrapped in, a pilot is protected from failure of his pressurized cabin, even at altitudes of up to # feet, where his body would literally burst from the low pressure. The suit actually holds the wearer together in emergency decompressions. If the plastic cockpit windshield shatters during high-altitude flight, the suit and the pilot's helmet would automatically fill with compressed oxygen. This enables the pilot to dive the plane for lower altitude. A # Calendar designed specifically for Science Fiction Fans and Space Flight Enthusiasts. Each month takes you on an expedition to one of the planets or moons of the Solar System, from Sun-baked Mercury to Frigid Pluto.  # two-color illustrations  Scientifically-accurate text with each illustration  Wonderful for your den  Printed in limited edition  Only # postpaid Endorsed by The Society for the Advancement of Space Travel (Continued from page #) The Odd Genre more human beings in the world like James E. Gunn it would indeed be a better one. In the meantime, our tame author had been browsing thru a copy of Ron Smith's excellent fanzine, Inside , which he'd purchased at the Con, and he was puzzled by some of the slang (or slan) terms used by the fans. I explained the origin and meaning of a number of the strange words to him, and in particular the earliest abbreviation of them all, "stf", with which I have become so intimately identified that many people, not possessing a copy of The Fancyclopedia, probably think I originated it. I explained to Jim how Hugo Gernsback himself first created the portmanteau word, scientifiction, at least # years ago if not longer, arid that it had enjoyed a vogue for many years, gradually giving way to plain science fiction (with or without a hyphen) and a variety of abbreviations thereof: S.F., SF, s.f., sf, sci-fic, and latterly, as a parallel to hi-fi, sci-fi. I got interested, and when I got home I consulted my magazine files of the early #'s, to see if I could track down the first appearance in print of the abbreviation "stf". For the records: my first stf correspondent, Linus Hogenmiller, sometime c. #, created the abbreviation. I was the first to use it in print, and later give it the pronunciation "stef" instead of "esti-ef"; but Linus, come out, come out, wherever you are, and get your egoboo ! (Egoboo: boosting of the ego. A term favored by Charles Burbee. ) Incidental intelligence : in searching for the first appearance in print of the abbreviation "stf', I ran across a letter by myself published when I was #, wherein (Apr. '#I Astounding ) I was astounded to find myself using the term "Mr. Science Fiction". Only then, a vogue of the day to be phonetic, I spelled it "Mr. Syence Ficshun". Stranger Than Science Fiction: a serious report has come from the Union of South Africa that a science fiction novel written by a # year old girl has been banned there, and that a fine of # attaches to possession of a copy and any owner risks imprisonment for up to five years! This is the honest-toGod, gospel truth, but I am at a loss to offer any explanation for it. Have I a South African reader who might enlighten us all? I can only tell you that the work was first published # years ago. It made a name for Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley, and a career for Boris Karloff. You can pick up a pocketbook edition at most any secondhand magazine shop for a dime. Take one with you to South Africa and its value will increase # times! # is only about # rent a month for a furnished cell, and presumably the meals are free: so if you want to relax with a good book and get away from it all, Sud' Afrika beckons. Just bring your Dear Editor: The letter from G.W. Walton in the October issue of IF was sufficiently irritating to compel me to take up the cudgel so generously proffered. I have no quarrel with his right to believe what he chooses, but I do feel justified in disagreeing with him emphatically. His attempts to establish his views as absolute logic, and as such irrefutable, do not succeed. They achieve only a thinly veiled attempt to rationalize his own uncontrolled speculation. Time travel exists only in imagination. I consider it quite presumptuous of any one person to set up rules and limitations, expecting writers and editors to concur. Mathematical fantasy... uncontrolled speculation... who cares? Any approach to an idea is acceptable provided it implements a good story. How can a writer be condemned for the free use of imagination when no fiction at all is possible without it? G.W.'s statement about telepathy is not acceptable by his own standards either. Following all the information available you find that no conclusive evidence is available at present. If there were no possibility other than the one claimed by him, further research would be pointless. If all progress were hampered by such a narrow view, humans might never have learned to write... I have been taught that one of the prime requisites of a scientific mind is a certain clear logical approach to any situation. Will you please explain, G.W., what sort of thinking leads you to demand that only proven fact be permitted in the most imaginative fiction available? It is your privilege to believe what you choose, my only interest is in keeping one of my favorite editors out of your opinionated clutches. I value his efforts to present a magazine that offers the best in science fiction, and for my money IF is everything it should be. I hope he # #I buy any time travel or telepathy themed tales that have the necesssary ingredients. -- G. A. Kepner Long Beach, California Sir: I'd like to make what one might term a half argument. I'm inclined to agree with Walton about time travel. It is an abstract, and useful only as subject matter for sciencefiction stories. I must, however, disagree with his statements on telepathy. To call it absurd is an absurdity in itself. The potentials of the mind are great and the thing that has prevented proper application of the potential lies in the matter of training. It is a fairly well accepted fact that the mind has never been fully developed in even the greatest men. I believe that when we have learned to properly train ourselves, mental abilities not yet dreamed of will be evident. A word about your magazine. I fully enjoyed the October issue, particularly The Almost Men and The Proxies . However such stuff as Meeting of the Board is not what I would call science-fiction. -- Richard Madden Limestone, Maine Dear Sirs: Just finished the October ish and loved it -- per usual. Then I turned to the letter column. Ouch! May I answer G.W. Walton and his blast against telepathy and time travel? First off, I question his definition of telepathy as a transmission of emotions only. Joseph Jastrow, A.B., A.M., Ph.D. and LL.D., whose section on telepathy is the officially accepted standard in the National Encyclopedia, defines it as "the ability to transfer and receive sensations and ideas, mainly in visual terms..." And what is speech excepting sounds to transmit visual and emotional impressions? Secondly, his usage of the word "impossible". Were you aware, G.W., that advanced mathematicians and students of aeronautics can "prove" by all the "laws" of aeronautics that it's impossible for the sea-gull to fly? The only things that are impossible are those which we cannot at the time conceive of as logically possible. Think back one hundred years to the multitude of things that were deemed "impossible" but which are standard today. We have faith and a thinking mind. For this combination nothing is impossible. -- G. McMillan  Redwood City, California Dear Mr. Quinn : Sad indeed to find that IF is again bi-monthly. I think the cause might be charged to its high quality; people are not apt to buy a magazine that makes them think. Some suggestions to Mr. Walton are in order. The man seems to put his faith in the material universe. He is trying to display a scientific spirit. But I was of the opinion that the scientist, until he could definitely substantiate any one of several opposed, theories, considered all the possibilities, probabilities and even the impossibilities. How impossible a spherical world is to our five senses! The fact is that there are many opposed theories of time travel and telepathy, none of which can be completely proven. Mr. Walton points out that the best telepathy can do is send and receive emotions. Frankly I can hardly conceive of emotion in its pure state, therefore it seems improbable that I could transmit a pure emotion of which I cannot perceive. If Mr. Walton can entertain the abstract, I accuse him of thinking in non-human terms. Concerning time travel, I will agree that as far as it has been portrayed it is apparently impossible. The only way I can imagine it is a non-effecting-observer type into the past which would make dry reading, unless we were to find that history is grossly incorrect. I suggest he read authors Rhine, Hayakawa, and Korzibisky. Other than that I offer no authority except that, as a human being, I consider it my right to think. And I think that Mr. Walton's stand on the subject should not be debated but rather that we should consider his entire "science" too aristotelian. -- Larry Martin Waco, Texas Mr. Walton makes several insupportable statements which he evidently wishes us to accept as dogma. He says that it is inconceivable that a small part of the universe such as a man could be shifted on the time scale because it involves too many paradoxes. Infinity too is inconceivable and involves a greater number of paradoxes. Also the infinite numerical series, while never demonstrated, is impossible to deny. There are a great number of conceptions in the universe which our minds are incapable of grasping just yet; but we cannot deny them. I'm not being mystical; but merely admitting that we have not yet reached the peak of our mental development. I hope there is no peak. As to telepathy, he says that it is impossible for an abstraction to "produce" (a semantic error, remember conservation of matter and energy) matter or energy. In this I agree, but I wish I knew what he meant by "abstraction". The brain operates on the same laws of matter and energy as the telephone switchboard. I can see no difference except in complexity between broadcast of emotions and of thoughts or pictures. Dr. Rhine has succeeded in finding people who, in tests which consist of guessing symbols on cards which another person is looking at and thinking about, have achieved more correct answers than can be accounted for by the laws of chance. This is not the broadcast of emotions but of thoughts, or more probably pictures. The October issue was very good, especially Prisoners of Earth and The Almost Men in that order of preference. I'm glad you have started a letter column, it gives your readers a chance to express their interests and opinions. -- Bill Doying Chevy Chase, Maryland Dear Sir: Mr. Walton's opinions are based upon the premise that it would require an enormous flow of energy to move through time. I find the time machine that I have carried around on my shoulders for some "time" now functions with the small amount of energy contained in three meals per day. It seems to require no more energy for me to go back twenty years in "time" than it requires to go back twenty minutes. The movement seems instantaneous and without effort. It is my considered opinion that the more stories and articles that are written about time travel, the sooner the public will become they will ever know. is analyzed, it seems to be an illusion that is brought on by the relational movements of the stars, suns, planets, etc. in the galaxy. If there is disagreement with this, then I should like to ask the question: are in an unconscious state? The Almost Men was a marvelous piece of work. It required a knowledge of physiology, anatomy down to the energy level as well as a knowledge of the functioning of the mind, for Cox to write such a # fantasy and sciencefiction books and backissue magazines at # to # under what they've cost you before, here or anywhere, while they last! Shannon Rd., R.D. #, Box #K Verona, Pennsylvania story. Hail to the story; and hail to the editor who is wise enough to choose it from among the many submitted. Let us have more! -- Dar Nelson Vista, California Mr. Walton # s letter has provoked more heated comment than any we ever printed -- with more to come! Dear Mr. Quinn: For shame on your quiz writer! He has robbed the otherwise inconspicuous constellation Lyra of its Vega. If some relatively unimportant star had been misplaced we might overlook it, but Vega! Until the error is corrected in print your magazine has joined the publications of the astrologers in the corner we reserve for astronomy's enemies and detractors. -- Stephen Maran Director, Junior Astronomy Club We really muffed it... and we apologize . Vega is not in Bootes , but in Lyra. Sirs: S.F. is often concerned with the man-machine conflict. Either the machines revolt or man does. Who decides what's a machine? Is a stick used as a lever a machine? Is a calculator? How about a slide rule? Or a log table? If not, why? Or can this whole problem be dealt with by semantics? -- Mark Langston South Bend, Indiana Okay , folks, what constitutes a machine? membership in this unusual are making this amazing offer to new the big new Science-Fiction antholomoney. Just mail coupon below -- at once ! World-renowned stories by H. G. Wells, Jules Verne, Conan Doyle, Huxley, Philip Wylie, Poe, F. Scott Fitzgerald, J. B. Priestly, etc. Remarkable and fantastic about some of the most aweinspiring charming and monstrous children imaginable, by Ray Bradbury, Truman Capote, Aldous Huxley, etc. Stories by outstanding authors of Wonders of Earth and Man... of startling inventions... of Outer Space... of Far Traveling... Worlds of Tomorrow, etc. A scalp-tingling volume about 'the life of the future -- edited by Frederik Pohl. Absorbing, masterfully written stories into tomorrow. Best tales from a dozen years of Astounding ScienceFiction Magazine selected by editor, John W. Campbell, Jr.  ,A sparkling crop of weird v tales selected by August Derleth. The man who Invented a solid vacuum... the Martian ship that lands on Earth on Halloween, and many others. Selected stories from Fantasy and ScienceFiction Magazine. The woman who became her own daughter... atomic power from beans... etc. Which # Anthologies Do You Want for Just  #? I Please rush me the # anthologies checked below, as my gift books and first selection. Bill me only SI for all # (plus few cents shipping charges) and enroll me as a member of the Science-Fiction Book Club. Every month send me the Club's free bulletin, "Things to Come," so that I may decide whether or not I wish to receive the coming selection described therein. For each book I accept, I will pay only I plus shipping. I do not have to take a book every month (only # during each year I am a member) -- and I may resign at any time after accepting # selections. membership will be cancelled!  Assignment in Tomorrow # Best from Fantasy and # Omnibus of # Treasury of Science-Fiction # Astounding Science-Fiction Science-Fiction Science-Fiction Classics Anthology # Children of Wonder # Portals of Tomorrow Name... Address City Zone State Selection price in Canada # plus shipping. Address ScienceFiction Club, # Bond St., Toronto #. (Offer good only in U. S. and Canada) fym fin Oaty  lr ts -- yours for only #! Each one is timed with science thrills of the future... ted with the imagination that will make orrow's headlines... written by the most ;ht-after science-fiction writers of today. A # to # value, complete and in hande permanent bindings -- but yours for only # on this amazing offer. w -- The Cream of New Scienceion Books -- For Only I Each! e make this amazing offer to introduce you Club selects each month the best and only the best new Science-Fiction book. And to enable about the cost, the Club has arranged to bring charge) -- even though they cost #, # and up in publishers' original editions! books you really want -- as few as four a year, if you wish... Take advantage of this amazing offer. Read the descriptions on the other side. Then pick the three books you want and mail the coupon -- without money -- at once! See Other Side for Further Details  #:I powered aircraft of the future, are shown in combat practice eleven miles above the earth's surface. The "attacking" craft is a supersonic jet interceptor. These great ships will likely be powered by air flowing through ducts in their wings. Air will be expanded and ejected through rear jet nozzles at terrific speed by means of intense heat from atomic reactor buried in heavy shielding between wings. Despite shielding, crew in far-off nose will have perhaps # flight hours without radiation injury. Such aircraft will be first steps to adequate power for space flight. (Drawing by Mel Hunter) All Stories New and Complete E # i # I #  #  By Kelly Freas, from "The Executioner" IF is published bi-monthly by Quinn Publishing Company, Inc. Volume #, No. #. Copyright # by Quinn Publishing Co., Inc. Office of publication, # Lord Street, Buffalo New York. Entered as Second Class Matter at Post Office, Buffalo, New York. Subscription # for # issues in U.S. and Possessions; Canada # for # issues; elsewhere #. Allow four weeks for change of address. All stories appearing in this magazine are fiction; any similarity to actual persons is coincidental. Not responsible for unsolicited artwork or manuscripts. #c a copy. Printed in U.S.A. Next issue on sale April I #th local (Los Angeles) Auto Show, particularly observing the Cars of the Future, the fibreglas sabres with the fifth wheel for parking and other strictly-from-sci-fi embellishments, like the built-in hi-fi set, telephone, and even mini-TV. With the new emphasis on safety features, Wendayne and I had been talking at dinner, just before going to the exhibit, about an idea of an inventor friend of ours, namely wraparound bumpers protecting the side of a car as well as the front; and when we arrived at the show, lo! what did we see but the demonstration of just such side-bumpers. And then there was the # goldplated Cadillac -- very far in my future. After which I went out to the parking lot and kicked my new Oldsmobile: so it had power steering, power braking, power windows, power windshield wiping, power radio antenna, power horn and power cigaret lighter, what good was the damn old thing? -- it didn't even have power handkerchief. And long noses run in my family. Consider the plight of poor Walter Ernsting, earnest German sci-fi fan. A one hundred Deutschmark fine (about # in our money) was levied against him for defending George Pal's "Conquest of Space" against derogatory criticism in one of the leading German newspapers. Ernsting, who is editor of the German s.f. fortnightly, Utopia, was thrilled by the picture, which he saw twice at once, but incensed by a review which he considered ignorant, ill-informed, unfair, usw. (that's German for etc). So he wrote a protest to the paper -- and was promptly taken to court for it! Sued and made to pay for "insulting the editor". It was only last year that we "fit the battle" -- the Battle of Bonn -- to save science fiction in Germany. Most of you won't have been aware that there was even any controversy over there, but a branch of the Bavarian Government lit a Bonn-fire under science fiction that threatened for awhile to incinerate the whole subject. The same ardent defender of s.f., Walter Ernsting, made a day's journey, at his own expense, to the seat of Government to represent and defend the magazine he edits, Utopia, from charges of "atom mongering", glorifying nuclear warfare and other thoughts farthest from the peace-loving mind of long-standing scientifictionist Ernsting who had dreamed of introducing modern science fiction to his countrymen even while a prisoner of the Russians. An appeal to America for moral support was answered by airgraphs and cables of protest from the Los Angeles Science Fantasy Society, the international Fantasy Foundation, the League for Better Science Fiction (New York), and concerned individuals throughout the country. A # word "Open Letter" was composed, translated into German, professionally printed and distributed prior to the hearing to the District Attorney and the panel of twelve (lawyer, educator, minister, psychologist, author, businessman, etc) who investigated the case. In answer to the charge that some of the stories were "too realistic and horrible in their descriptions of weapons of the future", I contended : There are many great writers expressing great philosophies, bombarding the human brain with thoughts and ideals, ways and means of achieving the utopian civilization for which all sane men yearn. If sometimes they dip their pens in acid and blood and paint pain-pictures of ghastly atomic horror, it is to crystalize for their perhaps less imaginative brethren the disastrous results of unholy ambition, twisted reasoning, misapplied science. For every bomb that drops in science fiction, an explosion takes place in the mind of the reader that blows away misconception. For every tower of lies that is toppled, a skyscraper of truth is erected. Better bitten by a snake on paper than in reality! And if we are shown the snake on paper, we learn to recognize and avoid it in reality. If # of the # individuals judging the merits of science fiction and the issues of the magazine in question had turned thumbs down, it would virtually have been the end of the modern s.f. experiment in Germany. Which would have been not only tragic but downright ridiculous, considering what Germany has contributed to the genre via Willy Ley, Fritz Lang, Curt SiodHarbou, Heinz Haber, Rick Strauss and Frank R. Paul. (Incidentally, to Frank Rudolph Paul, my favorite illustrator and the grand old dean of stf artists, my love, respects and congratulations to you, sir, on turning #. May your enchanted brush be with us yet when you are #.) But science fiction got a clean slate at L' Affaire Bonn: the Bonnshell exploded, and out of the smoke and flame came a # exoneration for science fiction. The Science Fiction Club Deutschland has been formed, has over # corresponding members, a lending library, and a society organ, World S.F. Convention I stopped off in Chicago and visited the offices of Playboy, the sophisticated men's magazine that features a lot of slick sci-fi, and made the acquaintance of the editor, Ray Russell. He turned out to be a dyedin-the-Wells fan from 'way back when Ray Bradbury was in rompers, and spent an afternoon reminiscing with me about the Good Old Days of Eando (Earl and (Continued on page #) the human race that men ought to be ashamed to be men -- instead of errorless, cybernetics machines. But they forgot that an errorless manris a dead man... ence, the first Wheel was probably the subject of more amateur astronomical observations than any other single object in the heavens. Over three hundred reports came in when a call was issued for witnesses to the accident that destroyed the space station. It was fortunately on the night side of Earth at the time, and in a position of bright illumination by the sun. Two of the observers had movie cameras attached to their ten-inch mirrors. The film in one of these was inadequate, but the other carried a complete record of the incident from the moment of the Griseda's first approach, through the pilot's fumbling attempt to correct course, and the final collision. The scene was lost for a few seconds as the wreckage drifted out of the field. The observer had been watching through a small pilot scope, however, and had wits enough to pan by hand so that he got most of the remaining fall that was visible above his horizon as the locked remnants of the Wheel and the Griseda began their slow, spiral course to Earth. By the time this scene was finished, word of the disaster was already flashing to Government centers. Joe McCauley, radio operator aboard the Wheel, had been talking with Ed Harris on the Griseda. As a matter of routine, all their conversation was taped, and some of this was recovered from the crash and played back at the investigation. " -- and get this," Ed was saying, "my kid had his fifth birthday just last week, and I've got him working through quadratic equations already. You've got to go some to beat that one." "Doesn't mean a thing," said Joe. "You know how these infant brain boxes burn out. Better take him fishing and forget that stuff for a while. Hey -- what the devil's going on? You got a truck driver in the control room? I just saw you out the port and it looks like you're right on top of us!" "Jeez, I dunno. It's been like that ever since we cleared Lunaport. Sometimes I think this guy Cummins trained in a truck the way he -- Hell, he's cornin' up on the wrong side of the Wheel! I relayed the orders to go to the east turret. Acknowledged them himself -- " "Ed! I can see you outside the port -- we're going to hit!" The words were ripped by the shattering, grinding roar of colliding metal. Then a moment later the blast of an exploding fuel tank. "Ed!" "Joe -- yeah, I'm here. Lights gone. Emergency power still on. Take the emergency band if you've still got a rig. I'll stand by -- " Joe switched over without comment and called Space Command Base on the emergency channel, which was always monitored. "Wheel just rammed by Griseda," he said. "Possible loss of orbital velocity. Extent of damage unknown." Lieutenant James, on duty at the Base, had just returned from a three day leave and was scarcely settled in the routine of his post once more. He glanced automatically at the radar tracking screen and his face paled at the sight of the irregular figure there, slightly out of the centering circle. It was no gag. "You're dropping," he said. "Orbital velocity must be down. Can you correct?" "I haven't been able to contact the bridge," said Joe. "Alert all Command and have crash point computed. Stand by." It developed that the bridge was entirely gone, along with a full thirty percent of the station. Captain West had been spared, however, being on inspection in the other sector of the station. He came on at once as Joe McCauley managed to get the communication lines repatched. "Emergency red!" he called. "All stations report!" One by one, the surviving crew chiefs reported conditions in their sectors. And when they were finished, they all knew their chance of survival was microscopic. Captain West ordered: "Communicate with Base. Request plotting of crash point." "Done, sir," Joe answered. "Command post will be established in the radio room. Emergency steering procedure will be started on command. Man all taxi craft." It was all on the tapes that were salvaged. Everything was done that desperate men could humanly do. At Base, its Commander, General Oglethorpe, was in the communications and tracking room by the time Joe McCauley had established contact with Captain West. He picked up the mike at the table. "Plug me in to the station," he commanded the Lieutenant. He got Joe first, but the radio operator put Captain West on as soon as he arrived in the radio room. "Hello, Frank," said General Oglethorpe in a quiet voice. "Yes, Jack -- " Captain West answered. "I'm glad you're there. Does it look pretty bad?" "Orbital velocity is down two percent. You've been falling for eight minutes." "That's pretty bad. I've got all steering stations manned, but only thirty percent of them are still operable. We're using the taxis to give a push too. But we haven't been able to dislodge the Griseda. Its inertia takes almost half our available energy." "Couldn't you get a blast from the Griseda' s tubes to put you in orbit?" "Adler's got a crew out there working on it. But his controls are gone, besides his fuel tanks being opened. And even if we could get their rockets operating it's doubtful we could get the right direction of thrust. Our hope is in our own rockets, and in breaking the ship away from the station." But the closer the massed wreckage dropped toward Earth, the higher were its requirements for orbital velocity. While the crews worked at their desperate tasks General Oglethorpe sat with his eyes on the tracking scope, and the voice of his friend in his ear. He listened to Captain West's measured commands to the men in the station and to those working to free the ship. General Oglethorpe heard the repeated reports of failure to free the Griseda. He listened to West's orders to transfer fuel from the ship to the station as the latter's supply ran low. He watched the continued deviation of the spot on the tracking scope. Then he turned as a lieutenant came up behind him with a sheet of calculations. "Present rate of fall indicates a crash point in the San Francisco Bay region, sir." The General gripped the paper, his face tightening. West said, "Did I hear correctly. Jack? The San Francisco area?" "Yes." "We'll have to try to keep it from happening there. I'll order the rockets shut off now. We'll save enough fuel to try to do some last minute steering as we approach Earth." "No!" General Oglethorpe cried. "Use it now! Its effect will be the same as later. Blow the chambers apart! Get back in orbit!" "We can't make it," West said quietly. "We've gained forward velocity, but I'll bet your computers will show us better than four percent below requirements at this orbit. Spot our crash as accurately as possible on free fall from our present position. We'll save remaining fuel for last minute steering in case we're near a city." The General was silent then as he heard the responses come back from the men who manned the rockets and who knew that with the closing of their fuel valves their own lives had also come to an end. "We'll want testimony account for the investigation," Oglethorpe said finally. "Get the responsible officers on the circuit -- but you first, Frank -- " There was a moment of silence before Captain Frank West began speaking in changed tones. "What is there to say?" he asked, finally. "You won't need to hold an investigation. I can tell you all you need to know -- all you'll ever find out at least, -- right now. Your decision will be the same one so many hundreds and thousands of investigating boards have made in the past: Pilot Error. " Human error! That's what killed the first Wheel, and the Griseda. I don't know why it happened. Adler doesn't. Neither does any other man up here with us. Those who were with Cummins in the control room are dead, but they didn't know any more than we do. ing that man, Cummins. We believed he was the best we could produce. We measured his reflexes and his intelligence and his blood composition until we thought we knew the function and capability of every molecule in his body. And then, in just one split second, he makes the decision of a moron, fumbling when he needed to be precise." "Just what did he do?" Oglethorpe asked gently. "Our customary approach is to the west turret. This time he had been ordered to go to the east side because of repairs on the other end of the hub. Cummins had seen and acknowledged the orders. Apparently, they slipped his mind during approach to the Wheel and he came up on the west side. Then he remembered and tried to correct his position. "Everything must have gone wrong then. The decision was a blunder to begin with. Wrong approach, yes. But it was suicide to attempt such a detailed maneuver that close to the station. He used his side jets and slammed the Griseda into the Wheel at a forty-five degree angle, locking the ship in the wreckage of the rim and in the girders of the spokes." "Was there any previous indication of instability in the pilot that you know of? We'll get a better answer on that from Adler, but we need to know if you were aware of anything." "The answer is no! Cummins was checked out before the start of the flight just three days ago. He was all right as far as any of our means of evaluation go. As right as any man will ever be -- "Jack, listen to me. Remember when we were back at White Sands and talked of the days when there would be a Wheel up here, and ships taking off for the Moon and for Mars?" "I remember," said General Oglethorpe softly. "Well, we've got a piece of that dream. But there'll never be any more, and what we've got is going to go smash unless we correct the one weakness we've never tackled properly. You'll fail again and again as long as men like Cummins can destroy twenty years' work and ing construction. One man's stupid, moronic error, and all of this goes to destruction, just as if it had never been. "On the ground, a plane crashes -- the board puts it down as pilot error and planes go on flying. You can't do that out here! The cost is too great. It's a sheer gamble putting this mountain of machinery and effort into the hands of men we can never be sure of. You think you know them; you do everything possible to find out about them. But you just don't know. "We've solved every other technical problem that has stood in our way. Why haven't we solved this one? We've learned how to make a machine that will perform in a predictable manner, and when it fails to do so we can provide adequate feed-back alarms and correctors, and we can find the cause of error. "With a man, we can do nothing. We have to accept him, in the final analysis, on little more than faith. "A couple of hundred men are going to die because of a human error. Give us a monument! Find out why men make errors. Produce a means of keeping them from it. Do that, and our deaths will be a small price to pay!" These were the words of a dead man. They were heard again and again in the committee rodms and investigation chambers. They were printed and broadcast around the world, and they enabled General Oglethorpe to do the thing that became a burning crusade with him. He would probably have failed in his effort if those words hadn't been spoken by a dying man while a shrieking, white-hot mass plunged through the atmosphere to land, finally, in the waters of the Pacific. The wreckage missed the city of San Francisco without the necessity of guidance by the rocket fuel so preciously hoarded by West. The Wheel and the Griseda were doomed the moment the pilot, Cummins, decided to shift the position of the ship with respect to the station. Commander's office, Dr. Paul Medick rubbed the palms of his hands against his trouser legs when the secretary wasn't watching, and licked the dryness that burned the membrane of his lips. The secretary remembered him. She probably had been the one to make out his severance papers and knew all about Oglethorpe's firing him. Now she was no doubt wondering about the General's calling him back after that bitter occasionjust as Paul himself was wondering. But he was pretty sure he knew. If he were right it was the opportunity of a lifetime, and he couldn't afford to muff it. The girl turned at the sound of a buzz on the intercom. She smiled and said, "You may go in now." "Thanks." He stood up and told his nerves to quit remembering the last time he passed through the door he was now entering. General Oglethorpe was nobody but the Base Commander, and if Paul Medick got thrown out once more he would be no worse off than he now was. Oglethorpe looked up, a grim trace of a smile at the corners of his mouth. He shook hands and indicated a chair by the desk, resuming his own seat behind it. "You know why I called you -- in spite of our past differences." Paul hesitated. He didn't want to show his anxiety -- and hopefulness -- He weighed the answers that might be expected of him, and said, "It's this crash thing -- and the appeal of Captain West?" "Would there be anything else?" "I'm flattered that you thought of me." "There's nothing personal involved, believe me! I'd a thousand times rather have called somebody else -- anybody else -- but there's nobody that can do the job you can." "Thanks." "Don't bother thanking me. I expect there'll still be a great deal of difference between us about the basic goals of this project. But once we start I don't want to have to fire you again." "Just what is the nature of this project," said Paul, "its goals? Fill me in on the details." "There are no details -- beyond what you've read and heard -- you're going to provide them. The objective is to find a kind of man that will keep the Frank Wests of the future from dying, as those men aboard the Wheel did." "What kind of man do you expect that to be?" Paul asked. "One who will eliminate, for all time, the damning verdict that has been handed down in tens of thousands of investigations of accident and disaster: human error. "We're going to find a kind of man who can be depended on to function without error. One who can undertake a complicated task of known procedure and perform it an infinite number of times, if necessary, without a single deviation from standard." Paul Medick regarded the General through narrowed eyes. In spite of his almost agonizing desire to possess the appointment to head up this Project he had to have a clear understanding with Oglethorpe now. He had to risk his chances, if necessary, to make himself absolutely clear. He said, "For untold thousands of years the human race has spent its best efforts to reach the goaf of perfection without achieving it. Now you propose to assemble all the money in the world, and all the brains and say: give us a perfect man! The United States Space Command demands him!" "Exactly." General Oglethorpe's face hardened as he returned Paul's steady gaze. "No other technical problem has been able to stand before such an attack. There is no reason why this one should. And the problem must be solved, or we're going to have to abandon space just as we stand on the frontier, getting our first real glimpse of it." "Your world is such a simple, uncomplicated place, General," said Paul slowly. "You want a man with two heads, four arms, and a tail? Order it! Coming up! "That's the way you operated when I set up your basic personnel program five years ago. It didn't work then; it won't work now." The General's face darkened. "It will work. Because it has to. Men are going to the stars -- because they have to. And they're going to change themselves to whatever form or shape or ability is required by that goal. They've done everything else they've ever set themselves to do -- life came up out of the sea because it had courage. Men left their caves and struck out across the plains and seas, and took up the whole Earth and made it what it is -- because they had courage. "But to go to space, courage is not enough. We need a new kind of man that we've never seen before. He's a man of iron, who's forgotten he was ever flesh and blood. He's a machine, who can perform over and over the same kind of complicated procedure and never make an error. He's more reliable and endurable than the best machines we've ever made. "I don't know where we'll find him, but he can be found, and you will do it, because you believe, as I do, that Man's frontier must not be closed. And because, in spite of your cynicism, you still understand the meaning of duty to your society and your race. There is no possibility of your refusal, so I have taken steps already to make your appointment official." "You must also have prepared yourself," said Paul, "to accept me with the basic philosophy that must guide me in this matter, And my philosophy is that this Project must fail. It has no possibility of success. The man you seek does not exist. An errorless man would be a dead man. "Any living man is going to make errors. That's the process of learning: make an approach, correct for error, approach again, correct once more. It's the only way there is to learn." The General inhaled deeply and hesitated. "I know nothing about that," he said finally. "You know what I want. Even if what you say were partially true, there remains no reason why that which has been learned cannot be performed without error. I may have to put up with it, but you'll save yourself and all of us a lot of time if you don't spend three months digging up reasons why the Project can't succeed." He stood up as if everything had been said that could possibly be said. "Let's go and have a look at your laboratory quarters." In the hot sunlight of the Southwest desert, they walked across the yard from the administration building to a large laboratory which had been cleared to the bare floor and walls. Paul felt a sense of instability returning. But only for an instant. He'd all but insulted the General and told him he had no intention of producing the iron superman the Space Command contemplated. And still he had not been thrown out. They must want him very badly, indeed! He had no qualms of conscience about taking the post now. General Oglethorpe had been forewarned and knew what Paul Medick's hopes and intentions were. "You can build your staff as big as you need it," the General was saying. "This Project has crash priority over everything else. We've got the machines to go to space. The machines need the men. "You can have anybody you want and do anything you like to them. We hope you can put them back together again in reasonable shape, but that doesn't matter too much." Paul turned about the bare room that would serve adequately as office space. "All right," he said. "Consider Project Superman begun. Remember, I have no hope of finding a solution in an errorless human being. I'll find whatever answer there is to be found. If you have any objections to my working of those terms, say so now. I don't intend to get fired again with a Project in the middle of its course." "You won't be. You'll find the way to give us what we need. I want you to come down to the other end of the building and meet a man who will be working closely with you." There had been sounds of activity in the distance, and General Oglethorpe led Paul towards them. They entered a large area in which instrumental equipment was being set up. A tall, thin, dark-haired man came up as they entered. "Dr. Nat Holt," said the General, "instrument and electronics expert. This is Dr. Medick, the country's foremost man in psychology and psychometric analysis. "Dr. Holt will be your instrument man. He will design and build whatever special equipment your researches call for. Let me know soon what you'll need in the way of furniture and assistants." He left them standing in the nearly bare room. Through the window they watched his stiff form march back to his own office. Nat Holt shifted position and grinned at Paul. "I may as well tell you that the General has briefed me thoroughly on what he considered your probable reaction to the Project. I'm just curious enough to want to know if he was right." "The General and I understand each other -- I think," said Paul. "He knows I'm contemptuous of his approach to a problem of human behavior by ordering it solved. But he knows I'll take his money and spend it on the biggest, deepest investigation of human behavior via psychometrical analysis that has ever been conducted." "It ought to be enough to buy gold fringed couches for all the analysts in the country." Paul raised his brows. "If it's that way with you, then why are you joining me?" he asked. "Because I have a stake in this, too! I want to see the problem solved just as much as the General does. And I think it can be solved. But not this way! "There's only one way to produce men of superior abilities. The method of adequate training. Hard, brutal discipline and training of oneself. I'm going to convince Oglethorpe of it after he's seen the failure you intend to produce for him." "That shouldn't be hard," said Paul. "It's the General's own view. The Project is simply to implement that view. "But let's not have any misunderstanding about my intentions. I expect to give honest value in research for every dollar spent. I expect to turn up data that will go a long way toward providing better spacemen for the Command -- and to give Captain West the monument he asked for!" Alone in his hotel room that night, Paul stood at the window overlooking the desert. Beyond the distant hills a faint glow in the sky marked the location of Space Command Base. He regarded it, and considered the enormity of the thing that was being brewed for the world in that isolated outpost. Now the chance was his to prove that manhood was a quality to be proud of, that machines could be built and junked and built again, but that a man's life was unique in the universe and could never be replaced once it was crushed. For years he'd struggled to probe the basic nature of Man and find out what divorces him from the merely mechanical. He'd known there would probably never be enough money to reach his goal. And then Oglethorpe had come, offering him all the money in the world to reach a nebulous objective that Space Command did not know was unobtainable. Somebody was going to spend that money. With clear conscience, Paul rationalized that it might as well be him. He'd see that the country got value for what it spent, even if this was not quite what the Space Command expected. Nat Holt was going to be a most difficult obstacle. Paul wished the General had let him pick his own technical director, but obviously the two men understood each other. In their separate fields, they were alike in their approach to human performance. Whip a man into line, make him come to heel like a reluctant hound. Beat him, shape him, twist him to the form you want him to bear. Discipline him. That was the magic word, the answer to all things. Paul turned from the window in revulsion, drawing the curtains on the skyglow of the Base. Human error! When would Man cease to indulge in this most monumental of all errors? When would he cease to regard himself and his fellows as brute creatures to be beaten into line? He had to find the right answer before Oglethorpe and his kind found some flimsy validation for the one they had already chosen long ago. He stood up and glanced at the clock, deciding he wanted dinner, after all. Tomorrow he'd wire Betty and the kids to get packed and be on their way. No -- he'd phone tonight. She had a right to know immediately the outcome of his interview. The dining room was almost empty. He ordered absently and clipped the speaker of his small personal radio behind his ear while waiting. He seldom used it, but here in the desert was a sense of isolation that made him seize almost compulsively upon any contact with the bright, distant world. The music was dull, and the news uninspiring. He was about to turn it off when his order arrived. The wine was very bad ; the steak, however, was good, so Paul considered it about even. His finger touched the radio switch once more. The newscaster's voice changed its tone of pounding urgency. "Repercussions of the recent crash of the world's first space station are still being heard," he said. Murmurs of protest against construction of a new Wheel are rising in many quarters. Today they approach the proportions of a roar. The influential New England Times states that it is 'unqualifiedly opposed' to any restoration of the Wheel. 'In its three years' existence the structure proved beyond any question of doubt its utter lack of utility. Now its fall to Earth demonstrates the menace constituted by its presence over every city on the face of the globe.' "Senator Elbert echoes these sentiments. 'It was utter folly in the lars to construct this Sword of Damocles in the sky of all the world. I propose that our Government go on record denying any further intention to rebuild such a threat to the peace and well-being of nations who stand now on the threshold of understanding and friendliness which they have sought for so long.' " Paul switched it off. He remembered the hours of worldwide tension while the Wheel was falling toward the city of San Francisco. In panic, the whole population of the Bay Area attempted evacuation, but there wasn't time. The bridges became clogged with traffic, and some hysterical drivers left their cars and jumped to the waters below. As the wreckage neared Earth, the computers narrowed their circle of error until it was certain at last that the city would not be struck. But the damage was done. The fear remained, and now was congealing in angry determination that another Wheel would not be built. Paul finished his meal, wondering what effect this would have on the plans to build a new Wheel -- and on Project Superman. Maybe Congress would react in anger that would cut off all appropriations to the Project. He wondered, in sudden weariness, if this would not be an unmixed blessing, after all. spent in telephone and telegraph communication with members of his profession as he proceeded to recruit a staff. On Friday, Betty arrived with the kids. By the end of the following week, laboratory furniture had been installed and the first trickle of potential staff members was coming in to see what Superman was all about. Nat, too, had been busy forming his own staff and setting up basic equipment. Paul had the feeling that they were opposing camps setting up on the same site of exploration. He tried to tell himself it was completely irrational, until Nat approached him a few days later. "Quite a crew you're getting in here," the technician said. "You'll have to take Oglethorpe up on his offer of new buildings if you expect to find couch space for all your boys." "That's what you're here for," Paul suggested mildly, "to do away with couches." "Right." Nat nodded. "Anything a couch can do, a meter can do twice as efficiently." "Sometimes both are necessary. You forget my specialty is psychometry." "No, I'm not forgetting," said Nat. "But that's what makes it so hard for me to figure out. You're attempting to span two completely incompatible fields: science and humanities. Man behaves either as a machine or as a creature of unstable emotion. To function as one you have to suppress the other." "Splitting Man in two has never produced an answer to anything. It has been tried even longer than couches -- and with far less result." "I'll make you a small side bet. We going to have to work together on Superman, and coordinate all our procedures and results. But I'll bet the final answer turns up on the side of a completely mechanistic man, shorn of all other responses and motivations." "I'll take that!" Paul said with a grim smile. "I don't know how much of an answer we'll find, but I know that won't be it!" "Let's say a small celebration feed for the whole crew when Superman is completed. Nothing chintzy, either!" They shook on it. And afterward Paul was glad the incident had occurred. It left no doubt about the direction Nat Holt would be traveling in his work. Four weeks to the day, from the time Paul had stepped into Oglethorpe's office, he called the first meeting of his staff leaders. Invitations to the General and to Nat Holt were deliberately omitted. He wanted this first get together to be a family affair. He felt just a little shaky in the knees as he got up before that group for the first time. "I won't repeat what you already know," Paul said carefully. "You all know the background events that produced Project Superman. "I am sure that each of you has also caught the two basic errors that have been assumed by the Space Command, first, that an errorless man is possible, and second, that genuine scientific discovery can be secured wholly upon command. General Oglethorpe recognizes that we consider these assumptions erroneous, but he also knows that our professional integrity demands that we pursue vigorously a course which he believes will result in success. "We recognize, too, that we are not here to invent or produce anything that does not already exist. But, in a sense, our superiors and some of our co-workers expect us to do exactly that. "We can agree, however, that most of Man's potential still remains to be discovered. And for us, who have hoped for a means of understanding that potential, this Project is the fulfillment of dreams. If we fail to take full advantage of it, we will win the condemnation of our profession for a century to come. "Space Command has already concluded that a man can be stripped of his humanity and driven to an utterly mechanistic state with the robotic responses of a machine. Let there be no mistake about it: we have been brought here to validate that conclusion. "We will validate it by default, so to speak, unless we can produce a clean-cut analysis and demonstrations of the thing that most of us believe: that the essence of Man is more than a piece of machinery or a collection of bio-chemical reactions. "Our science of mind and Man is on trial. If we fail, we give consent to a doctrine that will spread from space technology to all the rest of our society, and bind Man in an iron mold that will not be broken for generations. While we have been hired and will ostensibly work at the task of developing an errorless man, our basic purpose must be to validate the humanity of Man!" He waited for their reaction. Outside, far across the open desert at the station, a rocket screamed into the air. They waited until the sound died away. Professor Barker stood up. "There is scarcely a human being who has not by now read or heard the words of Captain West's appeal. They will be looking for the day when there will come marching from our laboratories, like a robot, the errorless man he asked for. "Do you mean we have to fight the stated objectives of this Project? Can we not discover sufficient understanding to establish some method of training which will accomplish, in another way, the things the Space Command needs?" "We are not fighting the Space Command's desire for more adequate men for its ships," said Paul. "We are fighting only against the false conclusions they have already formed concerning the nature of such men. "We must solve the problem of human error. We know its purpose in the learning process. We must discover the reason for its existence in a learned process. We have to find out what training actually means. "We have to ask how we know when an error has been made. It is obvious, of course, when a spaceship rams a fixed orbit station. But what of the subtler situations, where results are less dramadc, or are postponed for a long time -- ? "The primary thing to remember at this point is that our basic goal is to prevent any false confirmation of the dogma that Man is no more than a badly functioning machine, which will gain value when he has been tinkered with sufficiently so that he can slip in beside the gears and vacuum tubes and be indistinguishable from them. And to reach this goal we must discover his true nature." It was two weeks later that General Oglethorpe made his first visit since Superman got under way. The soldier's face seemed more deeply lined and his eyes more tired than Paul remembered seeing them before. "You seem to have things well in hand," he said. "How soon can you give us some tangible results?" "Results! We've just started housekeeping. In a year, maybe two, we'll have an idea where to begin a concentrated search for what you want to know." The General shook his head slowly, his eyes remaining on Paul's face. "You aren't going to have anything like a year. You haven't got time to run down one line of research and then another. Run them all at once -- a thousand of them if you want to. Why do you think you've got the budget you have!" "Some things," said Paul, "like threading a needle -- or analysing a human being -- don't go much faster when a thousand men work at it than when there's only one." "They do when there're a thousand needles to thread -- or brains to pick. And that's what we're up against here. We need a volume of the kind of men we've been talking about, and we need them quick!" "We have to find out how to get the first one." "And you haven't got as much time now as we thought you had when Superman began. They're trying to close us up. "We hadn't planned to build another Wheel right away, not until some refinements of design had been worked out, and we had some results from Superman. "Now, all that's been scrapped. We've received orders from Washington that erection of a second Wheel is to begin at once, using the plans of the first one. Fabrication of structures is already under way." "I don't understand," said Paul. "If we don't get another one up there within a matter of weeks, this hysterical opposition among the public is liable to prevent us ever getting one there again. We have to act while we still have authority, before the crackpots persuade Congress to take it away. And by the time it's built, I want some men to put in it. Men who can be trusted to not jeopardize it the moment they put their clumsy feet aboard. I want them, Medick, and I intend to have them. That's by way of an order!" The General rose, but Paul remained seated. "You can't get them that way, and you know it," the latter said. "We'll do all we can, as I've told you before." "I think you'll do considerably more, now. That was quite a talk you delivered to your boys a couple of weeks ago. We will 'ostensibly work at the task of developing an errorless man', is the the way I believe you put it. You're going to do a lot more than ostensibly work at it, Medick. Just how much do you think you can get away with?" Paul remained motionless in the chair. Only his lips moved. "So you had a report on our little meeting? I hope it was complete enough to give you the rest of the things I said, that my basic purpose was not to produce human robots, but to validate the humanity of man." Oglethorpe leaned closer, his fists resting on the top of the desk. "The humanity of man be damned! I told you before we want men who've forgotten they were ever human, men of metal and electrons. If I didn't think you were the man who could do it -- probably the only man in the whole country -- you wouldn't last here another minute. But you can do it, and you're going to. "Your little lecture was enough to ruin your career in any place you try to run to, if you undermine Superman. Who do you suppose would trust you with any kind of research after that expression of intent to sabotage the Project your Government entrusted you with, and which you agreed to carry out? "You're finished, Medick, washed up completely in your own profession, unless you give me what I've asked for! I won't take promises any more. The only assurance you can give me from here on out is results ! I want those men, and I want them damn fast!" tened attentively as Paul sat across from him in the administration office and reported Oglethorpe's visit and demands. "We're caught in a squeeze, and we've got to push both ways," Paul said. "If the Base goes down, Superman goes with it, and we've lost an opportunity that will never come again in our lifetimes. So we've got to do two things: We've got to give active support to the rebuilding of the Wheel, and we've got to develop some kind of show that will convince Oglethorpe that Superman is giving him what he wants. It will mean detouring our basic objectives, but it's necessary in order to have a project at all. I'd like you to take charge of it." "It'll be a waste of time," Barker said slowly. "I wonder if we'll ever get back on the track." "We'll have to gamble on it," said Paul. "I don't want you to feel I'm deliberately pushing you up a blind alley, but I think you're the best man for bringing up something we can sell Oglethorpe -- while we try to do some real research on some honest goals." "We can follow the usual lines of so-called training -- brute conditioning through shock and fear and pain and discomfort. Most of the men here are already well anaesthetized in that respect. Their breakdown level is high." "Cummins' was the highest," said Paul, "and he cracked. But work along those lines anyway. Maybe we can find a way to thicken the conditioning armor. At the same time let's push a genuine investigation into the nature of error as hard as we can. For the moment we'll forget broader objectives, until we know the Project is safe." Barker agreed reluctantly, feeling that they would end up as mere personnel counselors before long. As soon as he left, Paul called Oglethorpe. "I've got a suggestion," he said. "Let's not get on the defensive about this thing. Why don't you propose a Senatorial investigation of Space Command?" "Are you crazy? Why would we want to have them come out here and pick our bones to pieces before making final burial?" "We've got a story to tell them -- remember? We've got Superman, that's going to produce for the first time in the world's history a man adequate to go into the dangers of space. And there's that little story of yours about courage. I think that would go over with them. We'd be out in front if we took the initiative in this instead of just waiting until it rolled over us." There was a long pause before Oglethorpe spoke again. "I wonder just what you're trying to do," he said finally. "I know you don't mean a word of what you're saying at all -- " "But I do mean it," Paul said earnestly. "I want Superman saved ; you want the Wheel. It amounts to the same thing." "You could be right. You might even be telling the truth. I'll give it some thought." The officer in charge of the rocket crews and the take-off stand was a young engineer-soldier named Harper. Paul had met him during the first week at Base. His endorsement of Project Superman was enthusiastic. After talking with Oglethorpe, Paul took a jeep over to the stand and located Harper. The engineer was overseeing the fueling process on a big rocket. "Doc Medick!" Harper exclaimed. "How's your crew of head shrinkers coming along? We're just about ready for your new breed of pilots." "What do you mean?" "This is the nucleus ship. She's going out in orbit tonight with the first batch of supplies and instruments to get ready for the new Wheel. We're going to need your men awfully fast." "That's what I came to talk about. Can you spare a few minutes?" "Sure." Harper led him to the office, where the whining of fueling pumps was silenced. "What can we do for you?" "I wanted to ask about Cummins. You knew him pretty well, didn't you?" "Buddies. Just like that." Harper crossed his fingers. "What went wrong, do you think? I know it's all been hashed over in the investigations, but I'd like your personal feelings about him." Harper's face sobered and he looked away a moment. "Cummins was as good a guy as they come," he said. "But in a pinch he was just a weak sister. That doesn't mean he didn't have a lot on the ball," Harper added defensively. "He was a better pilot than most of us ever will be, but he was just human like the rest of us." "What do you mean, 'human'?" "Weak, soft, failure when the going gets rough -- everything we have to be on guard against every minute we're alive." "I take it you don't think much of human beings, as such." Harper leaned forward earnestly. "Listen, Doc, when you've been around ships as long as I have, you'll know what Captain West really meant. The weakest link in any technological development has always been the men involved with its operation. In space flight our weakness is pilots and technicians. Set a machine on course and it'll go until it breaks down -- and flash you a warning before it fails. With a man, you never know when he's going to fail, and you have to be on guard against his breakdown every minute because he won't give any warning. "Think what it's like to be in our shoes! We take the controls of a of machinery, and we know that every last man of us is boobytrapped with some weakness that can break out in a critical moment and destroy everything. We fight against it; we struggle to hold it in and act like responsible instruments. And we grow to hate ourselves because of the weak things that we are. "Cummins was like that. He fought himself every waking hour, knowing that he had a weakness of becoming confused in a tight spot. Oh, it was nothing that even showed up on the tests, and he was the best man of any of us on the Base. But he knew it was there, just as we all know our closets bulge with skeletons that we try to keep from breaking out." "Do you fight yourself the way Cummins did?" Paul asked. "Sure." "What would happen if you pulled a blunder that wrecked that ship out there on the stand." "I'd have had it, that's all. I'd never get within ten miles of a rocket base again as long as I lived. And there wouldn't be much worth living for -- " "It would be pretty wonderful to feel you weren't constantly on the verge of some disastrous blunder, wouldn't it?" "It would be a rocket man's idea of heaven to handle these ships with that kind of a feeling inside him." "We're about ready to begin running tests on Superman, and I'd like you to be the first to help us out. Can you arrange it?" "We're tied up like a ball of string on getting the nucleus ship in orbit. I know Oglethorpe gave orders we were to jump when you called, but I'll have to check on replacements for those of us you take. What kind of test are you going to run on me?" "I want to find out how long it takes you to make a serious error, and what happens to you when you do!" Arrangements were made for initiating this series of tests two days later. Paul had designed them, and Nat Holt's crew had built the equipment. But before they were started, Paul grew increasingly aware of the clamor and public agitation against the Wheel. Instead of dying out after a small spurt of anger, it was accumulating momentum in every corner of the nation. A rabble rouser named Morgan in the middle-west had proposed a motor caravan to Space Command Base, where the participants would go on a sit-down strike until assurance was given that no Wheel would be built again. And on the heels of this came the demand by an increasing number of Senators for a full investigation of the Base. Paul met Barker after seeing the newscast of Morgan's revivalist type appeal for a caravan of protest against the Base. "This looks like it could get to be something that would be hard to handle," Barker said. "It doesn't seem reasonable that the near-crash of the first Wheel at San Francisco could be responsible for all this commotion." "I don't think it is," Paul answered reflectively. "The sinking of a big ocean liner doesn't produce hysterical demands that no more ships be built. The crash of an airship with a hundred people aboard is accepted for what it is, without this kind of reaction. I think these broadcasts and write-ups of Captain West's appeal have sunk in deeper than Oglethorpe or anyone else ever intended. "For a long time there has been building up a sense of man's inferiority to his machines. Now this incident of the Wheel and the world-wide broadcast of West's final words have triggered that inferiority into a genuine fear. They're afraid to have another Wheel up there over their heads. They're afraid that no man is capable of mastering such a piece of machinery." Not only the public was infected with this fear, but the very men on whom the operation of the ships depended. Harper was right, Paul thought, as he reached his own office again. It must be terrible to be in their shoes, fighting constantly the conviction that they were poor miserable creatures hardly fit to polish the shining hulls of their creations ! They were trained in the best of military traditions, crushing their weaknesses by sheer force. And they had concluded their own breakdown was inevitable, in spite of their training and traditions. How could such men even hope for the stars! But where was the flaw in it all? If the answer was not in men who were more nearly like their own machines, where was it? They needed a year or two to even approach the problem properly, and some kind of answer was demanded within weeks! Oglethorpe came to the laboratory the morning Harper was to begin his test runs. "We're going on a complete crash-priority basis, with round-the-clock shifts," he said. "It's been a toss-up whether to close Superman and put everything we had on the new Wheel, or leave it open in the hope of getting something out of it. "For the time being I'm leaving it open, but remember that every hour Harper or one of his men spends here is an hour away from the job on the Wheel. "We didn't need your suggestion about an investigation. Plenty of other people thought of it first. The Senators will be here in four or five days. You're going to talk to them. You're going to tell them what you proposed to tell them." "Of course. And what are you going to do about Morgan's cavalcade?" Oglethorpe spat out an exclamation. "We'll set up barricades that they'd better not cross within ten miles of Base!" "That won't help," Paul warned. "I think you'd better let me prepare something for them, too." "Forget them! Take care of the Senators and the Project and you'll be doing enough." Harper arrived shortly, nervous in spite of his attempt to appear composed. But he was put at ease when they took him to the laboratory of complex testing equipment assembled by Nat Holt. Paul indicated a seat in the middle of the mass of equipment. "As near as we've been able to make it," he said, "this simulates the landing procedure of a rocket craft. There are a hundred and thirty-five distinct actions, observations and judgements involved. A taped voice will lead you through the sequence, asking you to press buttons and make adjustments to indicate your observations and responses. When you can do all this to your satisfaction, you will turn off the tape and continue for as many cycles as you can." "How long? A man could do that for a month, provided he didn't have to sleep." "I think you'll be a little surprised. You will continue until your accumulation of errors becomes so great that the entire procedure collapses." "It still looks like a kid's game to me," Harper said confidently. "Let's get started." Carefully, they fitted the multiple electrodes of the electro-encephalograph recorder to his. skull. The tape instructor was turned on, and Harper began the first cycle. Behind the one-way glass of the observation room, Paul sat with Nat Holt and Professor Barker and two assistants, watching. The rocket engineer began jauntily, contemptuous of the simple actions required of him, impatient to have it over with and get back to his duties at the take-off stand. The instructions coming over the speaker had some variations from the normal handling of a ship, including the items necessary to record observations and responses. Harper listened to these for a half dozen cycles. Then, confident that he could breeze through the procedure for the rest of the day if he had to, he switched off the tape and settled back to take it easy. One by one, he watched the meters, noted their information, made the proper adjustments, added compensations, waited for results, checked and re-checked -- "He'll go a long time," said Nat Holt confidently. "He's had top training. If it breaks down, we may find out a few things." "Cummins had top-drawer training, too," Paul said. "His break point seemed to have no adequate antecedents. I don't think we're going to find Harper holding out very long." After an hour, the attitude of contempt had left Harper's face, and he was proceeding with obvious boredom. He had made no error yet, but there was evident a faint trace of anxiety as he concentrated on the instruments and levers. At two hours and a half Harper reached for a button and withdrew his hand in abrupt hesitation. Then it darted out again and pressed decisively. At three hours he was making two such hesitations every cycle. "Not so good," Barker commented. "Not for a man who battles himself the way Harper does." Nat Holt remained silent, watching critically the wavering dials and graphs showing the engineer's physical condition and reaction. At four and a half hours, Harper's hand reached for a lever in the center of the board. But it didn't get more than a third of the way. In mid-air it froze, as if paralysis had suddenly struck it. Harper regarded it in seeming dumb astonishment. His face grew red, and sweat broke out upon his forehead as if from the physical exertion of trying to put his hand to the lever. Paul grabbed a microphone and switched it on. "Touch the lever," he commanded. "Draw it toward you." Harper looked around as if in panic, but he completed the motion. He sat staring at the panels for a full two minutes while alarm eyes went from green to yellow to red. "Alarm red!" Paul exclaimed into the microphone. "Correct course!" Harper turned and glared about with hate in his eyes as if to find the source of the sound. He began tearing at the wires and contacts fastened to his head and body. "To hell with the course!" he cried. "I'm getting out of here!" He hurled the wiring harness at the panels. Then, he stood in a moment's further paralysis and slumped finally into the chair. He put his arms and head down on the instrument desk and began sobbing deeply. Paul put away the microphone and moved to the door. "That's the end of that," he said. "I hope our record is good. Harper might not like to go through that again." Nat Holt was still staring through the window at the sobbing engineer. "I don't understand," he murmured. "What made him break down like that for no reason at all?" O NE BY one, the top engineers of the Base went through the breakdown test. Some broke down with an emotional storm as Harper had, others simply ended in a swirl of confusion that put lights flashing all over the panels. But all of them had a breaking point of some kind that could be measured in a small number of hours. The test was a stab in the dark. It was based on an old and wellknown principle that repeated tactile contact under command will break down the motor responses of the body in a matter of hours. Paul did not know whether it would actually provide a fertile lead to the problem of error or not, but it seemed the closest possible approach at present. Nat Holt, however, was astonished at the reaction of the men. He insisted on trying it himself, determined that he would not break down no matter what happened. He lasted six hours before the panel lit up like a Christmas tree. He subjected the resulting curves to an analyzer, and to his own he gave the most detailed attention. At the end of a full week of study on it, he called Paul with an excitement he could not suppress in his voice. "It looks like you owe that dinner," he said. "We've got what we were looking for!" "What are you talking about?" Paul demanded. "We've got proof that a human being is nothing more nor less than a simple cybernetic gadget. It's a laugh -- people trying to build a mechanical man all these years. That's the only kind there is!" "You still aren't making sense." "Come on over and see for yourself." Puzzled and irritated, Paul left his office and went down to the analyzer laboratory. There he found Holt and his staff in a buzz of excitement. The multiple recorder sheets were laid out on long tables, being studied intensely. Paul followed Holt to one series that was separated from the rest. "We didn't know we had anything at first," said Holt. "The pulse was so low in amplitude that it was hard to pick out of the noise, but the analyzer showed it was consistently present under certain conditions of the subject." "What conditions?" said Paul. "At the exact moment of committing an error! I should say it occurs between the moment of making the decision to carry out an erroneous act and the triggering of the motor impulse that executes it." Paul frowned. "How can you be sure it doesn't occur at any other time as well?" "Because we've run every set of charts through the analyzer and this particular impulse comes out no other place." "It looks very interesting," Paul said. "But why did you say you've got proof that a human being is nothing but a cybernetic gadget? I don't see what this has got to do with it." "I didn't give you quite all the story," Holt said smugly. "I should have said that the pulse occurred every time there was an intent to perform an error. Sometimes that intent was not carried out." "I don't understand." "That pulse is nothing more nor less than a feedback pulse indicating that an action matrix has been set up which is in non-conformity with the previously chosen pattern of learning or intent. It's a feedback alarm carrying the information that an error will result if the proposed action is carried out. When the feedback is successfully returned to the action matrix a change is made until there is no feedback and a correct action is taken. When the feedback is blocked or ignored, an error results. It's as simple as that! Your complex human being is nothing but a fairly elaborate cybernetic machine operating wholly on feedback principles. The only time he fails and breaks down is when he ceases to act like the cybernetic machine that he is!" Holt's eyes shone triumphantly as he patted the long strips of paper on the table. Paul followed the motion of his hand and remained staring at the graphs in a kind of stunned recognition. There must be some mistake, there had to be. Holt's interpretation was wrong, even if the data were correct. Man, a feedback response mechanism -- ! If that were true a vacuum tube structure could eventually be devised to do anything a man could do. "I think we'll hold off on that dinner a while yet," Paul said. "The data are interesting and, I'm sure, important -- but I can hardly agree with your conclusions." Inwardly, he cursed the stiltedness he felt creeping into his voice, and his irrational resentment of Holt's continued smug grin. "Take all the time you want," Holt said, "but when you're through you'll come up with the same answers I've got. Man is a machine and nothing else. Our only job now is to discover why the feedback sometimes fails, and to set it back on the job." Paul took the recordings and the analyzer graphs back to his own office. He called Barker and showed the older man what Holt had found out. "If this is true," he said, "we don't need to worry about validating Space Command's pre-chosen conclusions. It has already been done." Dr. Barker looked puzzled and a little frightened as he sat down at the desk to examine the charts. After an hour, he looked up. "It's true," he said. "There's no escaping the fact. Look what we have here -- " He pointed to a corresponding sector of the six charts he'd lined up. "After the first feedback impulse, there was no attempt to correct," he said, "or, rather, there was a deliberate effort to suppress the feedback. This created a second, larger feedback, which, in turn resulted in increased suppression and a simultaneous enlargement of the error. The result was a hunting effect in increasingly large amplitude, like the needle of an autosyn indicator with undamped positive feedback. "Now, here's another one with the opposite effect. In this case the hunting shows diminishing amplitude as correction of the effort results from application of the feedback pulses. One pulse is not sufficient, but they are applied in decreasing force as the intent is brought into alignment with the learned pattern. A purely mechanical response!" Paul turned from the window through which he had been staring toward the launchers. "Then Space Command is perfectly right," he said bitterly. "We can give them their errorless, mechanical men -- just as soon as we find ways of correcting the blockage of the feedback pulses!" Barker leaned back in his chair and folded his hands across his moderate paunch. "I'm afraid that's right. We've been wrong all along in bucking the mechanical concept of Man. The technologists saw it long ago in a sort of intuitive way, but they couldn't prove it. Now, they can!" "And the soul of Man is nothing but a feedback impulse!" Barker sighed heavily. "What else, Paul?" Morgan's Caravan appeared that evening and camped at the ten-mile limit imposed by the military police guards. They posted their signs of protest and began their picket lines. Oglethorpe sent out his sound trucks to try to scare them away, but they wouldn't scare. Paul watched at home the broadcast of the scene, but the fate of the Base and the Wheel had almost ceased to concern him. He told Betty of the discovery Holt had made on Superman. "It leaves nothing to account for the most valued acts of Man," he said. "It can't account for creativeness, because a cybernetic device cannot create; it can only follow a pattern. So where is the poetry, the art, the scientific invention if this is the essence of Man? It can't be, yet there's no way of getting around this thing." "Where does the pattern come from?" asked Betty. "Isn't that the created thing which the cybernedc system tries to follow?" Paul shook his head. "The pattern we're talking about is no more than a response to stimuli, a purely mechanical thing also. Holt claims this is all there ever is, that what we call art, poetry, music inspiration, and intuition are nothing more than the results of badly functioning cybernetic systems. The more or less irrational results of errors in accommodating to the real world. We find pleasure in them because they tend to excuse our badly malfunctioning circuits. "The ideal, race of Man would be devoid of all this, a smoothly operating group of individuals unperturbed by emotional or artistic responses, completely capable of solving any problem in a purely cybernetic manner." "And do you agree with it?" Betty asked. "There's nothing else I can do! The evidence is there." He laughed shortly and moved to the window where he could see the nearby camp of Morgan's Caravan. "Human development has moved -- is moving -- in a completely different direction from anything I ever dreamed. Oglethorpe's iron-hard, emotionless machine-men are the only ones who'll get there. The rest of us who can't match the pace of a technological society will be shucked off as the waste part in the development of a species meant to inhabit galaxies instead of a single world." "If I had ever wondered how you'd sound when you were completely out of your mind I'd have the answer now," said Betty. In the morning he turned over to one of the units the task of further identifying and analyzing the feedback impulse they had discovered. In the middle of this he was called to Oglethorpe's office. The investigating Senators had arrived. They were favorably impressed by the day-long tour that General Oglethorpe provided for them around the entire Base. But they found in Paul's announcement the strongest single factor in favor of permitting Space Command to continue with its work. "We know now," he said, "and this is something I haven't even had time to present to General Oglethorpe -- we know that a completely mechanical man is possible." The General's eyes narrowed as Paul's flat statement continued. "We know that it is possible to have men at the helm of our ships, who are incapable of error. We have hopes of producing them within a very short time if Project Superman is allowed to continue. And when this is done, there is no technical goal we cannot reach." This was the thing the Senators had come to find out, and they were satisfied. "But the public has got to be reassured of this," Senator Hart said. "We need to get this mob away from your gates for one thing. The news programs keep them constantly before the public eye and the whole country is stirred up." "We'll take care of it at once," General Oglethorpe said. "As Dr. Medick has indicated, this discovery is so new that even I had not been informed of it. Morgan's mob will go away as soon as they hear the news. And that, in turn, will reassure the entire country. We can arrange for a broadcast by Dr. Medick to the whole nation." Paul was swept along as arrangements were made to make a statement to Morgan and his group camped outside the Base, to the press, and to the public in general. Oglethorpe cornered him after the meeting with the Committee. "This is on the level," he said, "not something you cooked up on the spur of the moment?" "It's on the level," said Paul. "You were right all along." When he returned to his office an urgent message from Barker awaited him. He hurried down to the testing laboratory, where the older man greeted him in excitement and anxiety. "It looks like we've got something by the tail and can't let go of it. Come in and have a look." Paul followed him and found Captain Harper in an observation room, writhing on a cot in a storm of tears and emotional fury. He beat against the walls and the floor with his fists as his sobbing continued beyond control. "What happened to him?" Paul demanded. "We have three others in the same condition," said Barker. "We tried to determine the effect of a pure feedback impulse, and fed it back to each of them in amplified form as we found it on their charts. This is what happened. I'm afraid we may have cost them their sanity, and we don't know why." "How could their own feedback do such a thing to them?" he asked in wonder. "What part of the chart did you take it from?" "We used the impulse that didn't get through, the one that was blocked so that error resulted. Apparently this is the alternative to error." He nodded toward the writhing, sobbing man. "Harper reached a point where he had to fail or else be subject to this psychic storm." Paul ran his long, bony fingers through his hair. "This makes less sense than ever! If that's true, then we've got to take back what we've told Oglethorpe. His errorless man isn't possible, after all." "I don't know." Barker shook his head thoughtfully. "Evidently the production of error is a protection against the admission of this intolerable feedback impulse. But the question remains : why is it intolerable, and why does it become so after numerous other feedback impulses have been passed? "Yesterday we thought we had it all wrapped up. Now it's blown open wider than ever before!" Oglethorpe's public relations man prepared a statement to the effect that further danger from pilot error in rocket ships and the second Wheel could be considered as completely eliminated with the new training processes that would make men incapable of technical errors. Paul knew it was as ineffectual as the average Government release, but he made no protest in his concern for Harper and the three other men. He signed the statement automatically. He was presented the following day, however, with arrangements to give it personally to the members of Morgan's Caravan from the top of one of the sound trucks. He did protest then that any flunky on the Base could read it to the crowd as well as he. But Oglethorpe insisted he do it personally. With official pompousness the big, olive-green truck rolled out from the Base. Paul rode beside the driver and Metcalf, the public relations man. He'd not told Oglethorpe about their latest development. If this psychic reaction to feedback proved an impenetrable barrier there' d be time enough to give Space Command the bad news. In the meantime a Wheel would be built, the public would be mollified, and Superman would continue on -- to what unknown ends Paul didn't know. The massed camp of the fanatic followers of Morgan appeared in the distance like a discarded rag on either side of the road. Then as they approached it broke into individual knots of sand-scoured, unwashed people clustered about their tents. Morgan hadn't given much thought to adequate facilities before leading them out here. The truck rolled to a halt in the center of the camp. Morgan himself, a long, lanky figure in a dusty black suit, came at the head of a group of his people to meet them. "I hope you have the news we are waiting for," he said cordially. "We have a statement," said Metcalf. "Dr. Medick here, who has made an important discovery that will enable all of you to return to your homes, will read it to you." Paul could have stayed in the cab, but he preferred to climb to the platform atop the truck to get a look at the crowd Morgan had assembled. He hesitated a moment with the paper in his hands, then took up the mike and read the statement Metcalf had prepared. "The United States Space Command wishes to announce that -- " It fell utterly flat on completely non-understanding ears. Paul looked over the mass of faces and knew it had failed. Something far more than this was needed. A little feedback, he thought grimly. A little feedback of the idiocy of their present situation to correct their course and return it to normalcy. "Five hundred years ago there might have been a crowd of people just like you," he said suddenly in low tones. "There was a harbor, and some small ships, and a man who believed he could sail them over the edge of the world. On the shore were people who thought he was a fool and a blasphemer, and a few who thought he was right -- or at least hoped he was. "Five hundred years ago was the beginning of a new freedom from the prison of a tiny, constricted world. Today, another freedom waits our successful conquest of space. And whenever a freedom has been won there have been more who jeered against it than have cheered for it. You are today making a choice -- " He talked for ten minutes, and when he was through he knew that he'd accomplished his goal. Even before the sound truck pulled out, the cars of the Caravan were breaking away from the mass and disappearing in the distance. "Nice job," Metcalf congratulated, as if he'd been responsible for it himself. "Just a little feedback in the right place -- " murmured Paul absently. "Feedback? What's that -- new kind of propaganda technique -- ?" "Yeah, you might call it that. How could a guy have been so blind -- ?" he said fiercely, more to himself than to his companions. He hurried to the laboratory as soon as the truck got him back to Base. He rounded up Barker and Nat Holt and a dozen of his other top men. "The answer's been under our noses all the time," he said. "We've been too busy fighting each other for the sake of our own preconceived notions to have seen it!" "What are you talking about?" Holt demanded. "Feedback. Can't you guess what it is?" "No." you a small dose -- something less than the level given Harper and his men -- and then tell us what you find out about it?" Nat Holt looked hesitant. "If you think you know what you're talking about. There's no point in my getting in a condition like Harper's." "We'll pull you out before you get anywhere near that far." Still dubious, he took a seat amid the mass of pulse generating equipment and electroencephalograph recorders. A single pair of feedback terminals were fitted to his skull. The generator was set to duplicate his own feedback impulse taken from a moment of failure. Paul switched on the circuits and advanced the controls carefully. A look of pain and regret crossed Holt's face. He cried out with a whimper. "Turn it off!" "A second more -- Paul said. He advanced the control a hair and waited. The technologist began to cry suddenly in a low, sobbing voice. Paul cut the switch. For a moment Holt continued to slump in the chair, his shoulders jerking. Then he looked up, halfbewildered, half-furious. "What did you do to me?" he demanded. "You did it to yourself," Paul reminded him. "That's your own feedback puke just beefed up a little, remember. How did it feel?" "Terrible! No wonder a guy dodges that. It's enough to make him wreck a space station to avoid the full blast of it." "What would you call it?" "I don't know -- ," Holt hesitated. "Grief, maybe. Regret -- anxiety. But regret, mostly, I guess." "That's your feedback," Paul said as he removed the terminals and turned to the others. "These feedback pulses we've isolated are nothing but stabs of pure emotion." He turned with a faint smile to Holt. "You and Harper and the rest of the iron-bowelled boys were so convinced that the pure mechanical man would be utterly devoid of all emotional responses and content! And I was so sure that a warm, responsive, emotional human being could never respond like a cold machine! "And we were both utterly wrong. The human being does both. He operates on true cybernetic principles. But the content of his feedback control pulses is sheer emotion ! "A small error, a stab of regret. It's repeated, magnified, or diminished until the action gets back on the track that brings predicted results. Ignored, the error builds up until the whole structure goes smash. "And we're taught to ignore it! It's the noble, brave and manly thing to ignore the human feelings that surge through us. Be steel, be glass, be electrons -- anything but a responsive, emotional human being! That's the way to be a super-man! We've tried to find the way to perfection and have fought tooth and nail against the only means of achieving it." Barker's face was glowing with excitement and Holt seemed to be remembering something afar off. "That was it," he breathed softly. "I can feel it now -- the way it was as I began to get jittery and make mistakes in the test procedures. I seemed to fight something within myself -- something I thought was making me do it wrong. But it wasn't that, at all. I was fighting against the emotional feedback the errors were throwing at me." "Right," said Paul. "And your iron-hard, errorless Superman is going to be the most emotionally sensitive creature you can produce." "How did you catch on to this?" Barker asked. "We should have seen it in Harper. He's the original iron-man. He's bottled up and fought his emotions all his life. A concentrated dose of his own feedback simply shattered the dam. "But I didn't get it until I watched Morgan's mob reacting to the purely rational explanation Metcalf prepared to convince them they should go home. They were on a wrong tack and needed a generous amount of the right feedback to get them back where they belonged. The cold, logical approach was a dud. What does it take to move an intractible mob? Emotion -- based on the projected consequences of what they're doing. A perfect feedback setup when correctly applied. And it worked." Holt shuddered faintly and moved away from the chair he had sat in to experience his own feedback. "I'm not quite sure who owes who that dinner," he said to Paul. "But I think somebody does." "We'll split it," Paul said. And then he was silent as they listened to the departure of another cargo ship carrying parts of the second Wheel to the thousand-mile orbit. He smiled to himself. Ye of little faith! -- he thought. Frightened about the true nature of a race that years of the kind of torment that Man had survived! Man had everything that was needed to go to the stars or anywhere else he might want to go. He was safe. Man could never be turned into a robot. The basic mechanisms of his humanity were so interwoven with the structure of his being that they could never be separated. But they hadn't come very far, Paul knew. They had opened only a small crack in a door that had been irrationally closed from the beginning of time. They had to know fully why that door had never been opened before. And beyond it might lie a thousand others just as tightly closed and closely guarded. Yet they had reached a starting point, at last. Project Superman could get about its business of preparing men for the stars.    A free sample copy of the current issue of the science fiction newspaper will be sent to any reader of P.O. Box #, Paterson #, N.J. pxpruttotur V circumstances of the execution promise a turnaway crowd of more than # spectators by Court time. All unreserved tent space has been sold out for several days. Next news at... Sir Jacques de Carougne, Lord High Executioner for the Seventh Judicial District, spun the dial on the instrument panel of his single-seater rocket, but the vidcasts were over for another hour. He cursed, without too much vigor, and wished he had troubled to look at a vidcast or faxpaper during his vacation. But then heshrugged his massive shoulders. What did it matter? After a thousand executions, everything was instinct and reflex. Some died hard ; some died easy. Some fell to their knees, too paralyzed with fear to fire their own shots. Others fought daringly, even with a degree of skill, but always the end was the same : A broken body bleeding and twitching in the dust; the blood-happy spectators shrieking in the ecstacy of release from the humdrum of their pushbutton lives; the flowers, the scented kerchiefs and the shreds of torn garments showered on him by screaming women, who always seemed to find him more satisfactory in the arena than in his tent. As the skyline of New Chicago shimmered into view, Jacques flipped on the 'copter mechanism. His air speed braked, and the needle-nosed little craft drifted lazily down the eastern shore of Lake Michigan, then veered westward over the tinted glass rooftops of the spotless city. Jacques stared glumly down at the city that had been so much a part of his life, from the long-ago years of his training and youth to the professional years of his most famous executions. Farther to the west, out beyond the eternally green landscaping and the precise, functional homes of the residential suburbs, Jacques saw the crude stone parapets of the Chauvency judicial arena, surrounded by acre after acre of colorful tents and pavilions. His powerful, jutting nose wrinkled with disgust, but his eyes widened at the number of tents. There must indeed be something unusual about today's execution. He hadn't worked before that big a crowd for years. The Federal Bureau of Internal Tranquility should be happy about this one! Jacques sighed, still struggling against the despondency that had been within him since the vacation interlude with the brunette government worker in Curasao had ended as unsatisfactorily as all the rest. Someday it would be his body bleeding in the dust, smashed at last by the soft-nosed bullets from Le Pistolet du Mort. Then the flowers and adulation would go to the condemned man, and the Bureau would add his name to the plaque at the base of the towering statue on the Washington Mall. So be it. He had played a long roll of the dice, and the stakes had been high. But if only once, just once before it ended... The bell on his instrument panel told him that the servo-pilot in the tower below had taken over for the landing. He sniffed with disgust again, but this time the disgust was for himself. God, but he was in a foul humor today! He released the controls and stared at his strong hands, grimly admiring them. There was still speed as well as strength in these fingers. His lips twisted into a thin smile, cold and confident. Whoever he was to meet at joute a l'outrance, let him try to match twenty years of training and skill! His rocket cradled with scarcely a jar into the small landing space at the north end of the arena, between the two replicas of #th century towers, reproduced so faithfully by #nd century technicians. Jacques squeezed his huge frame through the door of the small craft and looked dourly around. A squire, in scarlet leggings and tunic, his long black wig slightly askew, came running toward him and knelt three paces away, as prescribed by the Judicial Code of Heraldry. "Oh, sire!" he panted, "Thanks be that ye have arrived! The hour is well past noonday, and we had begun to fear..." "Time enough," Jacques growled. He gestured impatiently, and the squire clambered to his feet, bowing again. "This way, your Lordship!" The squire led him to the lower room in the north tower. It was the usual room of monastic simplicity -- whitewashed stone walls, a single window, two wooden benches and a low couch on which his garments for the occasion had been carefully arrayed. After the execution, he would be moved to his black silk tent in the center of the camping grounds. While the squire fluttered around him, eager to be of help, Jacques removed his short-sleeved dacron shirt, kicked off his sandals and stepped out of the comfortable shorts he always wore for traveling. The squire gaped with awe at the sight of his muscular body. "M'Lord, truly thou art a powerful man!" Jacques looked down at him with mixed contempt and amusement. The squire was a thin, pale little man, with the pinched look of nearsightedness about his eyes. His wig and tunic were much too big for him. "What do you do, Squire?" Jacques inquired, not unkindly. The man looked hurt, as if the question reflected somehow on his ability to serve as a squire to the Lord High Executioner. "Computer development," he muttered. "Resonating pentode circuits." Then he drew himself up defensively, with not a little pride. "But I placed at the top of the list in the Bureau's test for squires!" "That's fine," Jacques commented drily. "Now hurry, let's see what you learned..." "Dress him handsomely, Squire!" boomed a taunting voice from the doorway. "Our Lord High Executioner faces a rare challenge this day!" Jacques recognized the voice of Guy de Archambault, the Court Bailiff, whose bilious nose he intended to grind into the dust one of these fine days. But his anger at the Bailiff's intrusion was overbalanced by curiosity. "What's all the excitement about?" he demanded. "Who's on the docket, anyway?" The Bailiff grinned mockingly. "Forsooth, M'Lord, restrain thy impatience! In the Court's good time wilt ye learn..." "Oh, knock off that drivel, will you! Court's not in session yet..." The Bailiffs huge belly shook with laughter. "Have it your own way, Jacques, m'boy! But in any vernacular the meaning's the same -- you're in for quite a surprise, if rumor has it right!" "Out with it, then! I can see you've been waiting to tell me." The grin broadened on the Bailiffs puffy lips. "You can bet your last sou on that! It would have broken my heart not to be the first to tell you..." Jacques took a threatening step toward him. "I'll break more than your heart if you don't answer my question # ) "Patience, pa -- Oh, all right!" the Bailiff hastily interrupted himself as Jacques took another step in his direction. "You've got a woman to shoot down this time -- and that's just half the story!" Jacques' craggy features hardened into immobility. "What's the rest of it, fool?" "There's gossip going around that she's a page out of your past -- maybe several pages, or even a whole chapter!" Jacques leaped the rest of the distance to the door and grabbed the Bailiff by his lace collar, twisting it until his round, fat cheeks swelled and reddened. "Who is it?" "L-Lady Ann -- of -- Coberly!" Jacques thumped his head against the side of the doorway. "I told you to knock off that drivel." "But -- but that's all I know -- I swear it! I just got here this morning, too, and took a quick peek at the calendar when I heard all the rumors out among the tents...!" Jacques shoved him out into the hallway, and stalked back into the room. The Bailiff straightened his collar, but made no move to leave. "M'Lord," he jibed, breathing heavily, "there's also a rumor that you have no stomach for executing any woman. Can that be true?" Jacques only scowled in reply, but he knew that this rumor, at least, was true. The last woman had been back in the Fifth Judicial District. A flint-faced murderess with the shoulders of a man. But the horror of firing the coup du mort into her naked, contorted body still came back to haunt his dreams. For weeks afterwards he hadn't been able to touch the women who came so eagerly to his tent during the wild execution night Festivals. The Bailiff's coarse voice continued to prod at him: "I'm sure you'll remember this one, once you see her! I've just come from watching her being dressed for Court!" The Bailiff's bloodshot right eye winked suggestively. "My duty, y'know, to protect their Judicial Highnesses by checking for concealed weapons." "Get out of here!" The Bailiff fell back a step, but continued talking. "I'd say she's your type all right -- full of fire! Too bad you have to kill her instead of..." Jacques ripped the white tunic from his squire's trembling hands and hurled it into the Bailiff's face. Guy de Archambault waddled back out of danger, then finding that he was not followed, poked his head around the edge of the door. "Prithee, Sir Jacques, have ye any message for their Judicial Highnesses?" "Yes, damn you! Tell them to get someone else for this infernal execution -- and be quick about it!" With a gleeful chuckle, the Bailiff disappeared again. The little squire picked up the white tunic and brushed it off dejectedly. If he missed this opportunity to serve as squire to the Lord High Executioner, his name would rotate to the bottom of the list and he might not have a chance to serve again before it was time to make up new lists. Jacques strode to the window. Lady Ann of Coberly. The name could mean anything or nothing, according to the whimsy of the lower courts. Lady Ann... Ann! But it couldn't be her -- Or could it? Jacques looked far down the years to a youngster just out of training, eager to prove himself in the execution arena. There had been an Ann then, and she had left one morning taking a young man's heart with her, leaving behind only the unfathomable look of reproach and disappointment that he had come since to know so well. But it couldn't be that Ann! He tried to create the image of her face, but saw only the acres of spectator tents, their bright pennants snapping in the wind, and the open squares teeming with spectacular costumes copied from medieval history books by an atomic age which found in the pageantry of execution-day its one escape from safe, sanitized, prescribed living. The Arthurian song of a strolling minstrel drifted up to him... "To the fairest of all maidens, To Argante, the Queen, most beauteous elf, She will make my wounds all sound, And with a healing draught make me full well..." Jacques clenched his great fists. No, he wouldn't do it. Seniority entitled him to some consideration. If necessary, he'd put a call through to the Bureau. They'd understand. His record was good. He'd always performed faithfully, meeting death every session, dealing it out to young and old alike. But not to a woman; certainly not to a woman who might have meant a great deal to him! During the long spartan years of his training, the isolated years of monastic living at a time when youth burned strongest in him, the image of woman had become a haunting dream, unreal as the moonlight streaming through his curtainless window, untouchable as the mist of a summer morning. A sense of that image and unreality still persisted, even after all the women who had come to that undefinable look of unhappiness deep in their eyes. Since that woman back in the Fifth District, he'd been lucky with his executions. Not too many women drew the death penalty, and the few times women had been on his docket he had learned of it sufficiently in advance to pretend illness or make up some plausible excuse for emergency leave. But today had taken him totally by surprise. The squire shuffled up behind him, and begged, "Please, your Lordship, shall we not don these garments now?" Jacques shook his head so impatiently that the squire scurried back in fright. And then the Bailiff's voice intoned sonorously from the doorway: "His Highness, Chief Justice of the Seventh Judicial District!" Jacques turned in time to see the Bailiff bow low. The Chief Justice entered with a swish of ceremonial robes. He was followed by a tall, thin man, dressed in knightly costume. The Bailiff made a second bow, and spoke again: "His Excellency, Sir Mallory, representing the Federal Bureau of Internal Tranquility!" Jacques felt suddenly relieved. It was good to have someone from his own Bureau here. These judges were too cold, too impersonal. The Chief Justice was carrying his wig, which was not yet fully powdered. His heavy jowls quivered with indignation. "What's this nonsense, Sir Jacques?" he demanded imperiously. "Court is ready to convene -- We have no time to get another executioner!" "I'm sorry, your Highness, but I must ask your indulgence this one time." "Impossible!" Sir Mallory stepped forward and smiled in a conciliatory manner. "Perhaps Sir Jacques does not understand all the circumstances," he said soothingly. "You see, Sir Jacques, this execution is very imbeen a first-rate execution in nearly three years, and this is the only release we've had to offer the public in all that time. Of course, the Court still must decide in its own wisdom whether there are any grounds for setting aside the verdict, but we would not want any of our Bureau personnel to be responsible for disappointing the public." "I've always done my duty," Jacques protested. "But this one time -- " splendid record," Sir Mallory interrupted, striking a hearty note of sincerity. "Your services have been deeply appreciated in these difficult times. Yet, we must always take the long view! Particularly 'this one time', as you say. Technology has rushed us into a world without need for strife or conflict, but man has not yet matured enough for such a world -- and he needs release to prevent dangerous explosions. Believe me, Sir Jacques, it would not be wise to postpone today's execution!" The Chief Justice cleared his throat angrily. "And it's not wise to stand here talking while my court is waiting to convene," he snapped "Sir Mallory, can't you remind this man of his oath, his duty, and be done with it?" Jacques felt his own anger rising. "I know my oath," he growled, "but -- " "Of course, of course, "murshares your feelings. We also deplore -- naturally -- the idle gossip that is circulating to build such interest in this execution. But circumstances are beyond our control, Sir Jacques. As public servants, we must serve..." The Chief Justice shook his wig in Jacques' face. "Your answer, man! "he demanded. "Are you or are you not going to perform your duty?" Sir Mallory stepped back, spreading out his hands as if to show Jacques there was nothing more he could do about it. Jacques stood tautly erect, impassive, while his mind reeled on a hairline balance between defiance and submission. He knew that more than this one issue would be decided by his next words. His entire professional life was involved, everything he had trained and fought for since he had been selected for the service at the age of thirteen. A wrong word, and he could be dismissed by the Bureau. The rest of his years would be spent in a cubicle in some atom-powered plant, where he'd have his own button to push for two hours every day. The monotony would be intolerable after the way he had lived ! But to send his bullets smashing into the body of a woman who might be Ann... Sweat trickled down the chiseled furrows of his cheeks. Beside him, the little squire was a study in still life, poised with one foot forward, the white tunic still draped on his outstretched arm. "Sir Jacques, we are waiting for your reply," prompted the cold voice of the Chief Justice. A turbulent voice within Jacques urged him to turn his back on all of them, but prudence counseled that he play for time. From Sir Mallory's oily manner, he could very well have made up and circulated the gossip about his supposed past relationship with this condemned woman. It might be wise to wait a bit before making a decision that could be so final. Jacques bowed, and said hoarsely"I await the orders of the Court, Your Highness." If the Chief Justice noted that Jacques said "await" instead of the more correct "will obey", he gave no sign of it. "Very well," he said. "Court will convene in five minutes." He turned so abruptly that he almost bumped into the Bailiff, who was making a poor effort to cover his disappointment. Sir Mallory smiled at Jacques, and said warmly: When they had left the room, the still frightened squire stuttered : "S-shall we d-dress, Sire?" Jacques walked without answering to the couch and sat down on the edge of it. "Get a move on!" he ordered. His feelings were in turmoil: He was desperately eager to see this Lady Ann, yet he dreaded the moment. If this was the Ann... Fingers trembling, the squire anointed each muscular shoulder with three drops of perfumed oil, after which he drew over Jacques' head and upper body the white tunic -- white to symbolize the purity of motive in entering the execution arena. Next came the black breeches and hose -- black for the eternal remembrance of death. Over the tunic came the flaming red jupon, blazoned on the sleeves with gules and on the back with a lion rampant argent. On his left shoulder, the squire fixed a lace of white silk, representing a deed not yet accomplished. Following the execution, a woman who had won the honor in her plant lottery would cut it off. After lacing on Jacques' boots, the squire stepped back, snatching an instant to admire his handiwork. "Well done, Squire," said Jacques. "Now, let's be off!" The squire flushed and beamed in gratitude. He picked up the silver case containing the two Pistolet du Mort, one for Jacques, one for the condemned person. Court was on a portable platform in the center of the Judicial Arena. As soon as the execution was confirmed, it would be wheeled out of the way. When Jacques stepped from the tunnel and strode toward the platform, an abrupt hush choked off the babbling and laughter in the stands. Most of the hundred thousand capacity crowd was already seated. Behind Jacques, the squire straightened his narrow shoulders with pride. This was the highpoint in a life spent among the tapes, circuits and feedback problems of computer research. Jacques mounted the platform, bowed to the crowd and took his seat in the black-draped, carved oak chair to the left of the Bailiff. His squire stood proudly behind him. The Bailiff murmured: "An imposing entrance for one who had only five minutes to dress! Your fair victim isn't here yet." Jacques stonily ignored him. An explosive cry from the stands brought the Bailiff to his feet. "Here she comes!" he announced with a grin of anticipation. "Take a good look, Sir Jacques -- it's worth while!" Though it was the hardest thing he had ever done, Jacques refrained from looking until the woman and her two jailers had nearly reached the platform steps. And then he looked straight at her, and the shock of it was a physical blow. This was Ann, all right. Even after all the years there was no doubt about it. She was as tall as he remembered her, and there was the same softness and warmth in the curve of her sun-brown shoulders. He suddenly felt the old ache for her. She held a velvet robe around her shoulders, but she held it loosely, disdainfully. Under it, she was already dressed in the translucent death gown. Her thick, blond hair, much longer than the fashion of the day, fell nearly to her shoulders. On her feet were the silver sandals she would later remove, along with the velvet robe, just before stepping up on the pedestal in the execution circle. The two jailers, each in skull cap and long black sleeveless robe, led her to the prisoner's bench below the dais where the judges would sit. The sight of her was a torment to Jacques, the ripping open of an old scar. He knew that in a moment their eyes would meet, but there was not enough strength in the corded muscles of his neck to turn his face away. Time had been kind to her, Jacques thought in one comer of his numbed brain. There were signs of its passing, around her mouth and her eyes, but it had given her what youth could not. There was a knowing in the curve of her lips, and he wondered what her eyes would tell him now. But she glanced first, with some amusement, at the two jailers, who held their crooked staffs at the alert position. Next, her eyes contemptuously swept the semi-circle of empty judicial chairs. They passed by the Bailiff so quickly that he looked cheated, and then they stopped full on Jacques. He read in their calm appraisal the knowledge that she had expected him to be here, and that she was not surprised at what the years had done to him. Perhaps she had seen his pictures in the faxpapers, or even watched some of his executions. But he wanted to know more than this, and he tried to look deeper into the light and shadows of her eyes. It was still there, he discovered, feeling a selfish sense of pleasure that she had not found what he hadn't been able to give her. The endless seeking, the search for something never put into words, the want unfulfilled -- all this was still there. He knew that she was reading him in the same way, but he could not tell what she found. Finally, it was she who looked away first, not in retreat, rather to appraise him thoughtfully. He felt her eyes on the knotted muscles of his cheeks, on his arms, on the whitened knuckles of his scarred hands, on his boots, now grey with dust from the walk across the arena. When her eyes came back to his, her unpainted lips parted in a faint smile. She knows, thought Jacques. She knows I don't want to kill her! And then the torment in him became unbearable. What irony that out of all the years of their lives they should come back together at this moment. An impulse tugged at him to snatch his pistols from the squire's silver box and try to take her from the arena, daring any to stop them. Then he realized that the Bailiff was standing again, that the hundred thousand spectators were surging to their feet. Trumpet fanfare blasted from the main tunnel, signalling the arrival of the judges. Instinct brought Jacques to his feet. Ann remained seated, and rose only after the jailers nudged her with their curved staffs. "Oyez, oyez, oyez!" cried the Bailiff into a microphone concealed in a carved boar's head. " 'Tis now two of the clock at aftir noone, and yon heralds bearing trumpets of devise give in knowledge unto all gentilmen, ladyes and gentilwoomen the cooming of this high and most honourable court! Remain at standing until said court is seated!" The Chief Justice, regally stern, led the procession of judges, clerks and pages across the arena. They mounted the platform, stepping in cadence. When the robed and bewigged judges were all seated, the Bailiff raised his staff and the crowd settled down with a buzz of anticipation. High atop one of the north towers, hidden cameras picked up the scene and vidcast it around the earth, and to the satellites and lonely planet outposts. One of the clerks picked up five rolls of parchment, untied the scarlet ribbon on each, and passed them around to the judges. The Chief Justice went through the pretext of scanning his, then nodded to the Bailiff to present the prisoner. With a sly wink at Jacques, the Bailiff took Ann firmly by the arm and guided her three steps forward. The Chief Justice coughed the nervousness from his throat, and asked : "Is this the Lady Ann of Coberly?" Before the Bailiff could make the correct response, Ann gave her own impatient answer. "I am Badge No. #, Transistor Division, Coberly precision Products, Ltd." The Chief Justice frowned at this breach of court etiquette. "Have ye not been properly instructed?" Ann shrugged, and the loose robe slipped lower on her shoulders. "I suppose so, but is it necessary to waste all this time? You've got the record in front of you!" The judges exchanged significant glances, and a delicious shudder swept through the stands. Jacques felt time running out on him. At best the chances of a reprieve for any prisoner were small, and in face of Ann's attitude... The Chief Justice's expression congealed into judicial impassiveness. "Ye are charged with taking the life of a man," he began solemnly. "That's not true!" Ann interrupted. Her unexpected words brought a startled gasp from the spectators. The judges leaned forward alertly. "According to the evidence..." the Chief Justice began again. "He wasn't a man!" Ann cried scornfully. Her glance flickered across at Jacques. "There are no more men." Ponderously, like a slow moving river that would not be diverted from its course, the Chief Justice returned to the facts of the case: "Ye speak in riddles, Lady Ann! The evidence makes it full clear that the victim was a man..." "Evidence!" Ann gestured toward the breathless stands. "There is your evidence! Ask those women what they are doing here! Ask them what their great, great grandmothers were doing at the ancient wrestling matches!! Ask them if they have ever known a real man -- or ask your own wives!" The Chief Justice's impassiveness was shattered. His cheeks puffed out indignantly. A strange, tense silence gripped the women in the stands; the men drew back their padded shoulders, and shouted in reproof : "Shame! For shame. Lady Ann!" "Why don't you ask them?" Ann persisted. Yes, ask them, Jacques thought, with a sudden, overpowering anger of his own. Ask them! Maybe their answers would tell why he, too, of all men, should have failed so many of them. "Hold thy insolent tongue, woman!" roared the Chief Justice. "There remains before this Court only one issue -- Did ye or did ye not strike a man to his death in the full view of scores of gentilmen and gentilwoomen of Coberly?" Ann shook her long hair in defiance. "It wasn't a man I struck with heraldic mockery can't make him a man! I struck a bloodless slide-rule, a cold filing cabinet full of equations, a set of dull geometric patterns, an automaton that tried to treat a woman like a punched holrith card! He was no more a man than this..." She brought her elbow up so sharply that the paunchy Bailiff was toppled off balance and nearly fell. He looked frightened. demanded the Chief Justice. "I'm proud of it!" "And ye claim no special circumstances?" "How would you understand them?" The crowd exploded into a frantic, unintelligible babble, and the Chief Justice slammed down his gavel. He turned to his fellow judges. Two were staring at the prisoner with an indignation that exceeded his own. The other two, both very old men, sat with heads bowed and hands fumbling with their robes. Jacques felt his pulse leap with a hope that had seemed impossible. Could it be that after all...? Ann turned toward him, faltering for the first time, and they stared into each other's eyes. At a curt nod from the Chief Justice, the Bailiff, still trembling, began to poll the Court. The first two judges angrily raised their hands to signify that they were voting to uphold the death sentence of the lower court. The third judge hesitated, then held out both hands, palms down. This brought an outburst of applause from the stands. The first palms-down vote always evoked such a demonstration, for a onesided execution was a comparatively dull affair. But the applause was choked off as the fourth judge slowly extended both hands, palms down. A scattering of boos and catcalls started. An ugly undercurrent rippled close to the surface. Was this woman going to win a reversal, in spite of all her insolence? If she did, the whole holiday would be spoiled, since there were no other executions on the docket. Better to have stayed home and watched films of nightly vidcast! Jacques looked away from Ann to watch the Chief Justice. The lines in Jacques' face were like gouges in a metal casting. Acutely aware of his role, the Chief Justice stood up and drew his robe about him with great dignity, taking care to face toward the TV cameras on the north tower. And as the Bailiff called for his deciding vote, the Chief Justice solemnly raised his right hand. Three to two for death! A hundred thousand spectators leaped to their feet, hysterically waving their arms. Three shots for the Lord High Executioner! Two for Lady Ann ! What a day this was going to be after all! Here was a truly great joute a l'outrance! Ann swayed a little, then smiled. Jacques closed his eyes. Ritual and habit took over where Jacques' will could not function. His squire stepped forward, opened the silver box and offered the Pistolets du Mort to the Bailiff. The weapons sparkled in the sunlight. They were a modern adaptation of an ancient design, and had become official death weapons after earlier experiments had convinced the FBlT that few #nd century men were strong enough to handle the swords and lances of chivalry. The Bailiff loaded one gun with two shells, the other with three. Then he replaced both in the silver box, closed the lid and put the box on the bench in front of the Chief Justice. Already the judicial platform was wheeled to one side of the arena; the twin pedestals were being rolled to position in the execution circle. They were thirty inches high, and were positioned precisely sixty feet apart, each on a line with the open ends of the stands so that wild shots would not strike a spectator. Next came the Ceremony of Confrontation, intended to symbolize that the Lord High Executioner was acting only under the compulsion of duty, without malice or any base motive. Moving mechanically, Jacques stepped toward Ann. The jailers crossed their staffs two paces in front of her. It was the closest Jacques would be permitted to approach until the Ceremony of the Spirit, when he would kneel beside her shattered body in the dust of the arena. He also was supposed to kneel now, and silently speak a prayer for both their souls. He knelt, but could not bow his head. Ann looked down at him, and the faint, unfathomable smile returned to her lips. "It's all right," she said softly. "You don't have to speak to me with words." The natural, warm scent of her body came through the fragrance of the oils with which she had been anointed in her death cell. It was a remembered scent that once again drove Jacques to the brink of madness. Her voice, husky and steadying, came down to him: "For two like us there is no other way, Jacques. Don't fail me again." He rose stiffly, backing away, staring into the mystery of the lights and shadows in her wide eyes, groping for the meaning of her words. A friar moved up to take his place, and the jailers dropped their staffs. But Ann dismissed the friar with a quick shake of her head. The Code now called for Jacques to leave the platform and walk with measured steps around the arena before mounting his pedestal in the execution circle. A signal from the trumpets started him on his way before he was aware of what he was doing. The habits of a thousand executions demanded obedience. Women in the front rows leaned far over the railing. Some reached their hands down to him, offering flowers and kerchiefs, hoarsely begging him to wear their favors during the execution. Others sat still, transfixed, lips parted and moist. The men beside them shrank back in their seats, looking at him as a sparrow would look at a coiled snake. Vendors of ribbands and souvenirs, cakes and drink, stood silent as he passed before them. The flutes, citterns and cymbals, the melodic voices of the minstrels, picked up the brooding death chanson : "Farewell my friends, the tyde abideth no man, I am departed from hence, and so shall ye; But in this passage the best songe that I can Is requiem eternam... The walk around the arena was an eternity, and then it was over and done with, and he had mounted his pedestal. A low crescendo, like the roll of faraway surf, swept across the stands. Ann was at the edge of the platform. She stepped out of her slippers, unfastened the velvet robe, handed it to one of the jailers. The crescendo grew, matching the surge of blood in Jacques' temples. A breeze swept the translucent death gown tight against her bare body, and she walked steadily down the steps, across the arena. Her feet stirred little puffs of grey dust that twisted and whirled away. The friar followed a few paces behind. At the pedestal, he offered her his hand. She refused it, stepped up without assistance. Bowing his head, the friar walked back to the judge's platform. Jacques' squire and a page boy appeared almost immediately. They walked part way across the arena together. Each bore one of the pistols on a black satin pillow. At the edge of the execution circle, their paths forked toward each of the pedestals. The trembling page offered Ann her pistol first. "Do ye remember your instructions?" he asked in a quavering voice that was picked up for the vidcast by the microphone hung under his frock. "Yes, thank you." Ann held the pistol loosely at her side, and looked toward Jacques, across the abyss of sixty feet. With frozen fingers, Jacques accepted the other pistol from his squire, and knew that he was out beyond the point of no returning. But he did not, could not, know what he would do once the signal for the execution was given. "Do not fail me again," Ann had pleaded. But what had she meant? Even at this final moment her smile was as enigmatic as ever. The page and the squire retreated to their stations at the side of the arena, this time moving hastily. The Bailiff raised his black staff and pennant, held it poised until the Chief Justice nodded, then lowered it with a flourish. A trumpet sounded one high, clear note. The signal had been given. Jacques remained motionless, waiting for a sign from Ann. But she, too, waited, her chin slightly lifted. What was she waiting for? What did she expect from him? In the stands, the breathing of a hundred thousand people was a rasping sound. And then Ann moved, so quickly that the surprise was complete. Her pistol flashed up, fired while still in its arc. The bullet blasted the air beside Jacques' ear, so close that for a fraction of a second he thought he had been hit. Ann's voice drifted across to him, across the stunned silence, and it contained both a taunt and a plea : "I won't miss next time, Jacques!" And he knew she would not. He had seen too many guns fired not to recognize technique. If she had learned to shoot that well, there was no doubt she could have hit him the first time. Jacques still couldn't fathom her motive, but there was no longer any chance to consider it. His conscious mind wanted to let her fire again, to put an end to this terrible dream. But the instinct of self-preservation was too strong; had been taught too well. Numbness went out of him, and he watched her eyes for the telltale (Continued on page #) It was a race between the tortoise and the hare. But this hare was using some dirty tricks to make sure the ending would be different... Illustrated by Ed Emsh friendly enemies, sitting across the table from each other for their last meal before blastoff. Outside the ports, the sky was nothing but light-streaked blackness, punctured periodically by Earth glare, for Space Station # whirled swiftly on its axis, creating an artificial gravity. "Jonner, I figured you the last man ever to desert the rockets for a hot-rod tow-job," chided Russo Baat, captain of the Mars Corporation's gleaming new freighter. Mar sward XV #. Baat was fat and red-faced, and one of the shrewdest space captains in the business. Jonner Jons, at the other end of the table, inclined his grizzled head and smiled. "Times change, Russo," he answered quietly. "Even the Mars Corporation can't stop that." "Is it true that you're pulling five thousand tons of cargo, Captain?" asked one of the crewmen of the Marsward XVlll. "Something like that," agreed Jonner, and his smile broadened. "And I have only about twice the fuel supply you carry for a #ton payload." The communicator above them squawked and blared: "Captain Jons and Captain Baat of Martian competition run, please report to control for final briefing." "I knew it!" grumbled Baat, getting heavily and reluctantly to his feet. "I haven't gotten to finish a meal on this blasted merry-goround yet." In the space station's control section, Commander Ortega of the Space Control Commission, an ascetic officer in plain blues, looked them up and down severely. "As you know, gentlemen," he said, "blastoff time is #. Tonnage of cargo, fuel and empty vessels cannot be a factor, under the law. The Mars Corporation will retain its exclusive franchise to the Earth-Mars run, unless the ship sponsored by the Atom-Star Company returns to Earth with full cargo at least twenty hours ahead of the ship sponsored by the Mars Corporation. Cargo must be unloaded at Mars and new cargo taken on. I do not consider the twenty-hour bias in favor of the Mars Corporation a fair one," said Ortega severely, turning his gaze to Baat, "but the Space Control Commission does not make the laws. It enforces them. Docking and loading facilities will be available to both of you on an equal basis at Phobos and Marsport. Good luck." He shook hands with both of them. "Saturn, I'm glad to get out of there!" exclaimed Baat, mopping his brow as they left the control section. "Every time I take a step. I feel like I'm falling on my face." "It's because the control section's so close to the center," replied Jonner. "The station's spinning to maintain artificial gravity, and your feet are away from the center. As long as you're standing upright, the pull is straight up and down to you, but actually your feet are moving faster than your head, in a larger orbit. When you try to move, as in normal gravity, your body swings out of that line of pull and you nearly fall. The best corrective, I've found, is to lean backward slightly when you start to walk." As the two space captains walked back toward the wardroom together, Baat said: "Jonner, I hear the Mars Corporation offered you the Marsward turned them down. Why? You piloted the Marsward V and the Wayward Lady for Marscorp when those upstarts in the Argentine were trying to crack the EarthMars run. This Atom-Star couldn't have enough money to buy you away from Marscorp." "No, Marscorp offered me more," said Jonner, soberly now. "But this atomic drive is the future of space travel, Russo. Marscorp has it, but they're sitting on it because they've got their fingers in hydrazine interests here, and the atom drive will make hydrazine useless for space fuel. Unless I can break the franchise for Atom-Star, it may be a hundred years before we switch to the atom drive in space." "What the hell difference does that make to you?" asked Baat bluntly. "Hydrazine's expensive," replied Jonner. "Reaction mass isn't, and you use less of it. I was bom on Mars, Russo. Mars is my home, and I want to see my people get the supplies they need from Earth at a reasonable transport cost, not pay through the nose for every packet of vegetable seed." They reached the wardroom door. "Too bad I have to degrav my old chief," said Baat, chuckling. "But I'm a rocket man, myself, and I say to hell with your hot-rod atom drive. I'm sorry you got deflected into this run, Jonner; you'll never break Marscorp's orbit." The Mar sward XV #I was a huge vessel, the biggest the Mars Corporation ever had put into space. It was a collection of spheres and cylinders, joined together by a network of steel ties. Nearly # of its weight was fuel, for the oneway trip to Mars. Its competitor, the Radiant Hope, riding ten miles away in orbit around the Earth, was the strangest looking vessel ever to get clearance from a space station. It looked like a tug towing a barge. The tug was the atomic power plant. Two miles behind, attached by a thin cable, was the passenger compartment and cargo. On the control deck of the Radiant Hope, Jonner gripped a microphone and shouted profane instructions at the pilot of a squat ground-to-space rocket twenty miles away. T'an Li Cho, the ship's engineer, was peering out the port at the speck of light toward which Jonner was directing his wrath, while Qoqol, the Martian astrogator, worked at his charts on the other side of the deck. "I thought all cargo was aboard, Jonner," said T'an. "It is," said Jonner, laying the mike aside. "That G-boat isn't hauling cargo. It's going with us. I'm not taking any chances on Marscorp refusing to ferry our cargo back and forth at Mars." "Is plotted, Jonner," boomed Qoqol, turning his head to peer at them with huge eyes through the spidery tangle of his thin, doublejointed arms and legs. He reached an eight-foot arm across the deck and handed Jonner his figures. Jonner gave them to T'an. "Figure out power for that one, T'an," ordered Jonner, and took his seat in the cushioned control chair. T'an pulled a slide rule from his tunic pocket, but his black almond eyes rested quizzically on Jonner. "It's four hours before blastoff," he reminded. "I've cleared power for this with Space Control," replied Jonner. "That planet-loving G-boat jockey missed orbit. We'll have to swing out a little and go to him." On a conventional space craft, the order for acceleration would have sent the engineer to the engine deck to watch his gauges and report by intercom. But the Radiant Hope's "engine deck" was the atomic tug two miles ahead, which T'an, in heavy armor, would enter only in emergencies. He calculated for a moment, then called softly to Jonner: "Pile One, in ten." "In ten," confirmed Jonner, pulling a lever on the calibrated gauge of the radio control. "Pile Two, in fifteen." "In fifteen." "Check. I'll have the length of burst figured for you in a jiffy." A faint glow appeared around the atomic tug far ahead, and there was the faintest shiver in the ship. But after a moment, Qoqol said in a puzzled tone: "No Gs, Jonner. Engine not work?" "Sure, she's working," said Jonner with a grin. "You'll never get any more G than we've got now, Qoqol, all the way to Mars. Our maximum acceleration will be ##, "One three-thousandth?" exclaimed T'an, shaken out of his Oriental calm. "Jonner, the Marsward will blast away at one or two Gs. How do you expect to beat that at ##, #th?" "Because they have to cut off and coast most of the way in an elliptic orbit, like any other rocket," answered Jonner calmly. "We drive straight across the system, under power all the time. We accelerate half way, decelerate the other half." "But I #th!" "You'll be surprised at what constant power can do. I know Baat, and I know the trick he's going to use. It's obvious from the blastoff time they arranged. He's going to tack off the Moon and use his power right to cut # days off that regular #-day schedule. But this tug-boat will make it in # days!" They took aboard the #-ton landing boat. By the time they got it secured, the radio already was sounding warnings for blastoff. Zero hour arrived. Again Jonner pulled levers and again the faint glow appeared around the tail of their distant tug. Across space the flared into blinding flame. In a moment, it began to pull ahead visibly and soon was receding like a meteor. Near the Radiant Hope, the space station seemed not to have changed position at all. "The race is not always to the swift," remarked Jonner philosophically. "And we're the tortoise," said this jaunt, Jonner?" "Is should, Jonner," agreed Qoqol. "T'an know all about crazy new engine, I know all about crazy new orbit. Both not know all. You tell." "I planned to, anyway," said Jonner. "I had figured on having Serj in on it, but he wouldn't understand much of it anyhow. There's no use in waking him up." Serj was the ship's doctor-psychologist and fourth member of the crew. He was asleep below on the centerdeck. "For your information, Qoqol," said Jonner, " the atomic engine produces electrical energy, which accelerates reaction mass. Actually, it's a crude ion engine. T'an can explain the details to you later, but the important thing is that the fuel is cheap, the fuel-to-cargo ratio is low and constant acceleration is practical. "As for you, T'an, I was surprised at your not understanding why we'll use low acceleration. To boost the engine power and give us more Gs, we'd either have to carry more fuel or coast part of the way on momentum, like an ordinary rocket. This way's more efficient, and our #-day margin over the Marsward each way is more than enough for unloading and loading more cargo and fuel." "With those figures, I can't see how Marscorp expects to win this competition," said T'an. "We've got them, flat, on the basis of performance," agreed Jonner. "So we'll have to watch for tricks. I know Marscorp. That's why I arranged to take aboard that G-boat at the last minute. Marscorp controls all the G-boats at Marsport, and they're smart enough to keep us from using them, in spite of the Space Control Commission. As for refueling for the return trip, we can knock a chunk off of Phobos for reaction mass." The meteor alarm bells clanged suddenly, and the screen lit up once with a fast-moving red line that traced the path of the approaching object. "Miss us about half a mile," said Jonner after a glance at the screen. "Must be pretty big... and it's coming up!" He and T'an floated to one of the ports, and in a few moments saw the object speed by. "That's no meteor!" exclaimed Jonner with a puzzled frown. "That's man-made. But it's too small for a G-boat." The radio blared: "All craft in orbit near Space Station #! Warning! All craft near Space Station #! Experimental missile misfired from White Sands! Repeat: experimental missile misfired from White Sands! Coordinates..." "Fine time to tell us," remarked T'an drily. "Experimental missile, hell!" snorted Jonner, comprehension dawning. "Qoqol, what would have happened if we hadn't shifted orbit to take aboard that G-boat?" Qoqol calculated a moment. "Hit our engines," he announced. "Dead center." Jonner' s blue eyes clouded ominously. "Looks like they're playing for keeps this time, boys." T he brotherhood of spacemen is an exclusive club. Any captain, astrogator or engineer is likely to be well known to his colleagues, either personally or by reputation. The ship's doctor-psychologist is in a different category. Most of them sign on for a few runs for the adventure of it, as a means of getting back and forth between planets without paying the high cost of passage or to pick up even more money than they can get from lucrative planetbound practice. Jonner did not know Serj, the Radiant Hope's doctor. Neither T'an nor Qoqol ever had heard of him. But Serj appeared to know his business well enough, and was friendly enough. It was Serj's first trip and he was very interested in the way the ship operated. He nosed into every corner of it and asked a hundred questions a day. "You're as inquisitive as a cadet spaceman, Serj," Jonner told him on the twenty-fifth day out. Everybody knew everyone else well by then, which meant that Jonner and Qoqol, who had served together before, had become acquainted with T'an and Serj. "There's a lot to see and learn about space, Captain," said Serj. He was a young fellow, with fair hair and an easy grin. "Think I could go outside?" "If you keep a lifeline hooked on. The suits have magnetic shoes to hold you to the hull of the ship, but you can lose your footing." "Thanks," said Serj. He touched his hand to his forehead and left the control deck. Jonner, near the end of his eighthour duty shift, watched the dials. The red light showing the inner airlock door was open blinked on. It blinked off, then the outer airlock indicator went on, and off. A shadow fell across Jonner briefly. He glanced at the port and reached for the microphone. "Careful and don't step on any of the ports," he warned Serj. "The magnetic soles won't hold on them." "I'll be careful, sir," answered Serj. No one but a veteran spaceman would have noticed the faint quiver that ran through the ship, but Jonner felt it. Automatically, he swung his control chair and his eyes swept the bank of dials. At first he saw nothing. The outer lock light blinked on and off, then the inner lock indicator. That was Serj coming back inside. Then Jonner noted that the hand on one dial rested on zero. Above His eyes snapped to the radio controls. The atomic pile levers were still at their proper calibration. The dials above them said the engines were working properly. The atomic tug was still accelerating, but passengers and cargo were in free fall. Swearing Jonner jerked at the levers to pull out the piles aboard the tug. A blue flash flared across the control board, momentarily blinding him. Jonner recoiled, only his webbed safety belt preventing him from plummeting from the control chair. He swung back anxiously to the dials, brushing futilely at the spots that swam before his eyes. He breathed a sigh of relief. The radio controls had operated. The atomic engines had ceased firing. Tentatively, cautiously, he reversed the lever. There was no blue flash this time, but neither did the dials quiver. He swore. Something had burned out in the radio controls. He couldn't reverse the tug. He punched the general alarm button viciously, and the raucous clangor of the bell sounded through the confines of the ship. One by one, the other crew members popped up to the control deck from below. He turned the controls over to Qoqol. "Take readings on that damn tug," Jonner ordered. "I think our cable broke. T'an, let's go take a look." When they got outside, they found about a foot of the one-inch cable still attached to the ship. The rest of it, drawn away by the tug before Jonner could cut acceleration, was out of sight. "Can it be welded, T'an?" "It can, but it'll take a while," replied the engineer slowly. "First, we'll have to reverse that tug and get the other end of that break." "Damn, and the radio control's burned out. I tried to reverse it before I sounded the alarm. T'an, how fast can you get those controls repaired?" "Great space!" exclaimed T'an softly. "Without seeing it, I'd say at least two days, Jonner. Those controls are complicated as hell." They re-entered the ship. Qoqol was working at his diagrams, and Serj was looking over his shoulder. Jonner took a heat-gun quietly from the rack and pointed it at Serj. "You'll get below, mister," he commanded grimly. You'll be handcuffed to your bunk from here on out." "Sir?... I don't understand," stammered Serj. "Like hell you don't. You cut that cable," Jonner accused. Serj started to shrug, but he dropped his eyes. "They paid me," he said in a low tone. "They paid me a thousand solars." "What good would a thousand solars do you when you're dead, Serj... dead of suffocation and drifting forever in space?" Serj looked up in astonishment. "Why, you can still reach Earth by radio, easy," he said. "It wouldn't take long for a rescue ship to reach us." "Chemical rockets have their limitations, "said Jonner coldly. "And you don't realize what speed we've built up with steady acceleration. We'd head straight out of the system, and nothing could intercept us, if that tug had gotten too far before we noticed it was gone." He jabbed the white-faced doctor with the muzzle of the heatgun. "Get below," he ordered. "I'll turn you over to Space Control at Mars." When Serj had left the control deck, Jonner turned to the others. His face was grave. "That tug picked up speed before I could shut off the engines, after the cable was cut," he said. "It's moving away from us slowly, and at a tangent. And solar gravity's acting on both bodies now. By the time we get those controls repaired, the drift may be such that we'll waste weeks maneuvering the the tug back." "I could jet out to the tug in a spacesuit, before it gets too far away," said T'an thoughtfully. "But that wouldn't do any good. There's no way of controlling the engines, at the tug. It has to be done by radio." "If we get out of this, remind me to recommend that atomic ships always carry a spare cable," said Jonner gloomily. "If we had one, we could splice them and hold the ship to the tug until the controls are repaired." "Is cable in cargo strong enough, Jonner?" asked Qoqol. "That's right!" exclaimed Jonner, brightening. "Most of our cargo's cable! That #ton spool we're hauling back there is # miles of cable to lay a television network between the Martian cities." "Television cable?" repeated T'an doubtfully. "Will that be strong enough?" "It's bound in flonite, that new fluorine compound. It's strong enough to tow this whole cargo at a couple of Gs. There's nothing aboard this ship that would cut off a length of it -- a heat-gun at full power wouldn't even scorch it -- but we can unwind enough of it, and block the spool. It'll hold the ship to the tug until the controls can be repaired, then we can reverse the tug and weld the cable." "You mean the whole # miles of it's in one piece?" demanded T'an in astonishment. "That's not so much. The cablelaying steamer Dominia carried # miles in one piece to lay Atlantic cables in the early #th century." "But how'll we ever get # tons in one piece down to Mars?" asked T'an. "No G-boat can carry that load." Jonner chuckled. "Same way they got it up from Earth to the ship," he answered. "They attached one end of it to a G-boat and sent it up to orbit, then wound it up on a fast winch. Since the G-boat will be decelerating to Mars, the unwinding will have to be slowed or the cable would tangle itself all over Syrtis." "Sounds like it's made to order," said T'an, grinning. "I'll get into my spacesuit." "You'll get to work on the radio controls," contradicted Jonner, getting up. "That's something I can't do, and I can get into a spacesuit and haul a length of cable out to the tug. Qoqol can handle the winch." Company's representative at Mars City, and Kruger of the Space Control Commission were waiting when the Radiant Hope's G-boat dropped down from the Phobos station and came to rest in a wash of jets. They rode out to the G-boat together in a Commission groundcar. Jonner emerged from the Gboat, following the handcuffed Serj. "He's all yours," Jonner told Kruger, gesturing at Serj. "You have my radio reports on the cablecutting, and I'll make my log available to you." Kruger put his prisoner in the front seat of the groundcar beside him, and Jonner climbed in the back seat with Deveet. "I brought the crates of dies for the groundcar factory down this time," Jonner told Deveet. "We'll bring down all the loose cargo before shooting the television cable down. While they're unloading the G-boat, I wish you'd get the tanks refilled with hydrazine and nitric acid. I've got enough to get back up, but not enough for a round trip." "What do you plan to do?" asked Deveet. He was a darkskinned, long-faced man with a sardonic twist to his mouth. "I've got to sign on a new ship's doctor to replace Serj. When the Marsward comes in, Marscorp will have a dozen G-boats working round the clock to unload and reload her. With only one G-boat, we've got to make every hour count. We still have reaction mass to pick up on Phobos." "Right," agreed Deveet. "You can take the return cargo up in one load, though. It's just twenty tons of Martian relics for the Solar Museum. Mars-to-Earth cargos run light." At the. administration building, Jonner took his leave of Deveet and went up to the Space Control Commission's personnel office on the second floor. He was in luck. On the board as applying for a MarsEarth run as ship's doctor-psychologist was one name: Lana Elden. He looked up the name in the Mars City directory and dialed into the city from a nearby telephone booth. A woman's voice answered. "Is Lana Elden there?" asked Jonner. "I'm Lana Elden," she said. Jonner swore under his breath. A woman! But if she weren't qualified, her name would not have been on the Commission board. The verbal contract was made quickly, and Jonner cut the Commission monitor into the line to make it binding. That was done often when rival ships, even of the same line, were bidding for the services of crewmen. "Blastoff time is # tonight," he said, ending the interview. "Be here." Jonner left the personnel office and walked down the hall. At the elevator, Deveet and Kruger hurried out, almost colliding with him. "Jonner, we've run into trouble!" exclaimed Deveet. "Space Fuels won't sell us any hydrazine and nitric acid to refill the tanks. They say they have a new contract with Marscorp that takes all their supply." "Contract, hell!" snorted jonner. "Marscorp owns Space Fuels. What can be done about it, Kruger?" Kruger shook his head. "I'm all for you, but Space Control has no jurisdiction," he said. "If a private firm wants to restrict its sales to a franchised line, there's nothing we can do about it. If you had a franchise, we could force them to allot fuel on the basis of cargo handled, since Space Fuels has a monopoly here. But you don't have a franchise yet." Jonner scratched his grey head thoughtfully. It was a serious situation. The atom-powered Radiant Hope could no more make a planetary landing than the chemically-powered ships. Its power gave a low, sustained thrust that permitted it to accelerate constantly over long periods of time. To beat the powerful pull of planetary surface gravity, the terrific burst of quick energy from the streamlined G-boats, the planetary landing craft, was needed. "We can still handle it," Jonner said at last. "With only twenty tons return cargo, we can take it up this trip. Add some large parachutes to that, Deveet. We'll shoot the end of the cable down by signal rocket, out in the lowlands, and stop the winch when we've made contact, long enough to attach the rest of the cargo to the cable. Pull it down with the cable and, with Mars' low gravity, the parachutes will keep it from being damaged." But when Jonner got back to the landing field to check on unloading operations, his plan was smashed. As he approached the Gboat, a mechanic wearing an illconcealed smirk came up to him. "Captain, looks like you sprung a leak in your fuel line," he said. "All your hydrazine's leaked out in the sand." Jonner swung from the waist and knocked the man flat. Then he turned on his heel and went back to the administration building to pay the #-credit fine he would be assessed for assaulting a spaceport employe. The Space Control Commission's hearing room in Mars City was almost empty. The examiner sat on the bench, resting his chin on his hand as he listened to testimony. In the plaintiff's section sat Jonner, flanked by Deveet and Lana Elden. In the defense box were the Mars Corporation attorney and Captain Russo Baat of the Marsward XV #. Kruger, seated near the rear of the room, was the only spectator. The Mars Corporation attorney had succeeded in delaying the final hearing more than a #-day Martian month by legal maneuvers. had blasted down to Phobos, and G-boats had been shuttling back and forth unloading the vessel and reloading it for the return trip to Earth. When testimony had been completed, the examiner shuffled through his papers. He put on his spectacles and peered over them at the litigants. "It is the ruling of this court," he said formally, "that the plaintiffs have not presented sufficient evidence to prove tampering with the fuel line of the G-boat of the spaceship Radiant Hope. There is no evidence that it was cut or burned, but only that it was broken. The court must remind the plaintiffs that this could have been done accidentally, through inept handling of cargo. "Since the plaintiffs have not been able to prove their contention, this court of complaint has no alternative than to dismiss the case. The examiner arose and left the hearing room. Baat waddled across the aisle, puffing. "Too bad, Jonner," he said. "I don't like the stuff Marscorp's pulling, and I think you know I don't have anything to do with it. "I want to win, but I want to win fair and square. If there's anything I can do to help..." "Haven't got a spare G-boat in your pocket, have you?" retorted Jonner, with a rueful smile. Baat pulled at his jowls. "The Marsward isn't carrying G-boats," he said regretfully. "They all belong to the port, and Marscorp's got them so tied up you'll never get a sniff of one. But if you want to get back to your ship, Jonner, I can take you up to Phobos with me, as my guest." Jonner shook his head. "I figure on taking the Radiant Hope back to Earth," he said. "But I'm not blasting off without cargo until it's too late for me to beat you on the run." "You sure? This'll be my last ferry trip. The Marsward blasts off for Earth at # tomorrow." "No, thanks, Russo. But I will appreciate your taking my ship's doctor, Dr. Elden, up to Phobos." "Done!" agreed Baat. "Let's go, Dr. Elden. The G-boat leaves Marsport in two hours." Jonner watched Baat puff away, with the slender, white-clad brunette at his side. Baat personally would see Lana Elden safely aboard the Radiant Hope, even if it delayed his own blastoff. Morosely, he left the hearing room with Deveet. "What I can't understand," said the latter, "is why all this dirty work, why didn't Marscorp just use one of their atom-drive ships for the competition run?" "Because whatever ship is used on a competition run has to be kept in service on the franchised run," answered Jonner. "Marscorp has terests, and they're more interested in keeping an atomic ship off this run than they are in a monopoly franchise. But they tie in together: if Marscorp loses the monopoly franchise and Atom-Star puts in atom-drive ships, Marscorp will have to switch to atom-drive to meet the competition." "If we had a franchise, we could force Space Fuels to sell us hydrazine," said Deveet unhappily. "Well, we don't. And, at this rate, we'll never get one." ing at the Mars City Recreation Center. It had been several blasted off to Earth with a full cargo. And still the atomic ship Radiant Hope rested on Phobos with most of her Marsbound cargo still aboard; and still her crew languished at the Phobos space station; and still Jonner moved back and forth between Mars City and Marsport daily, racking his brain for a solution that would not come. "How in space do you get twenty tons of cargo up to an orbit # miles out, without any rocket fuel?" he demanded of Deveet more than once. He received no satisfactory answer. The Recreation Center was a two-acre park that lay beneath the plastic dome of Mars City. Above them they could see swift-moving Phobos and distant Deimos among the other stars that powdered the night. In the park around them, colonists rode the amusement machines, canoed along the canal that twisted through the park or sipped refreshment at scattered tables. A dozen or more sat, like Jonner and Deveet, around the edge of the tiny lake, fishing. Deveet's line tightened. He pulled in a streamlined, flapping object from which the light glistened wetly. "Good catch," complimented Jonner. "That's worth a full credit." Deveet unhooked his catch and laid it on the bank beside him. It was a metal fish: live fish were unknown on Mars. They paid for the privilege of fishing for a certain time and any fish caught were "sold" back to the management at a fixed price, depending on size, to be put back into the lake. "You're pretty good at it," said Jonner. "That's your third tonight." "It's all in the speed at which you reel in your line," explained Deveet. "The fish move at pre-set speeds. They're made to turn and catch a hook that moves across their path at a slightly slower speed than they're swimming. The management changes the speeds once a week to keep the fishermen from getting too expert." "You can't beat the management," chuckled Jonner. "But if it's a matter of matching orbital speeds to make contact, I ought to do pretty well when I get the hang of it." He cocked an eye up toward the transparent dome. Phobos had moved across the sky into Capricorn since he last saw her. His memory automatically ticked off the satellite's orbital speed: # miles a second ; speed in relation to planetary motion... Why go over that again? One had to have fuel first. Meanwhile, the Radiant Hope lay idle on Phobos and its crew whiled away the hours at the space station inside the moon, their feet spinning faster than their heads... no, that wasn't true on Phobos, because it didn't have a spin to impart artificial gravity, like the space stations around Earth. He sat up suddenly. Deveet looked at him in surprise. Jonner's lips moved silently for a moment, then he got to his feet. "Where can we use a radiophone?" he asked. "One in my office," said Deveet, standing up. "Let's go. Quick, before Phobos sets." They turned in their rods, Deveet collecting the credits for his fish, and left the Recreation Center. When they reached the AtomStar Company's Martian office Jonner plugged in the radiophone and called the Phobos space station. He got T'an. "All of you get aboard," Jonner ordered. "Then have Qoqol call me." He signed off and turned to Deveet. Can we charter a plane to haul our Earthbound cargo out of Marsport?" "A plane? I suppose so. Where do you want to haul it?" "Charax is as good as any other place. But I need a fast plane." "I think we can get it. Marscorp still controls all the airlines, but the Mars government keeps a pretty strict finger on their planetbound operations. They can't refuse a cargo haul without good reason." "Just to play safe, have some friend of yours whom they don't know, charter the plane in his name. They won't know it's us till we start loading cargo." "Right," said Deveet, picking up the telephone. "I know just the man." Towmotors scuttled across the landing area at Marsport, shifting the cargo that had been destined for the Radiant Hope from the helpless G-boat to a jet cargo-plane. Nearby, watching the operation, were Jonner and Deveet, with the Marsport agent of Mars Air Transport Company. "We didn't know Atom-Star was the one chartering the plane until you ordered the G-boat cargo loaded on it," confessed the MarsAir agent. "I see you and Mr. Deveet are signed up to accompany the cargo. You'll have to rent suits for the trip. We have to play it safe, and there's always the possibility of a forced landing." "There are a couple of spacesuits aboard the G-boat that we want to take along," said Jonner casually. "We'll just wear those instead." "Okay." The agent spread his hands and shrugged. "Everybody at Marsport knows about you bucking Marscorp, Captain. What you expect to gain by transferring your cargo to Charax is beyond me, but it's your business." An hour later, the chartered airplane took off with a thunder of jets. Aboard was the #-ton cargo the Radiant Hope was supposed to carry to Earth, plus some large parachutes. The Mars-Air pilot wore a light suit with plastic helmet designed for survival in the thin, cold Martian air. Jonner and Deveet wore the bulkier spacesuits. Five minutes out of Marsport, Jonner thrust the muzzle of a heatgun in the pilot's back. "Set it on automatic, strap on your parachute and bail out," he ordered. "We're taking over." The pilot had no choice. He went through the plane's airlock and jumped, helped by a hearty boost from Jonner. His parachute blossomed out as he drifted down toward the green Syrtis Major Lowland. Jonner didn't worry about him. He knew the pilot's helmet radio would reach Marsport and a helicopter would rescue him shortly. "I don't know what you're trying to do, Jonner," said Deveet apprehensively over his spacehelmet radio. "But whatever it is, you'd better do it fast. They'll have every plane on Mars looking for hs in half an hour." "Let 'em look, and keep quiet a while," retorted Jonner. "I've got some figuring to do. He put the plane on automatic, took off the spacesuit handhooks and scribbled figures on a scrap of paper. He tuned in the plane's radio and called Qogol on Phobos. They talked to each other briefly in Martian. The darker green line of a canal crossed the green lowland below them. "Good, there's Drosinas, muttered Jonner. "Let's see, time # hours, speed # miles an hour... Jonner boosted the jets a bit and watched the terrain. "By Saturn, I almost overran it!" he exclaimed. "Deveet, smash out those ports." "Break out the ports?" repeated Deveet. "That'll depressurize the cabin!" "That's right. So you'd better be sure your spacesuit's secure." Obviously puzzled, Deveet strode up and down the cabin, knocking out its six windows with the handhooks of his spacesuit. Jonner maneuvered the plane gently, and set it on automatic. He got out of the pilot's seat and strode to the right front port. Reaching through the broken window, he pulled in a section of cable that was trailing alongside. While the baffled Deveet watched, he reeled it in until he brought up the end of it, to which was attached a fish-shaped finned metal missile. Jonner carried the cable end and the attached missile across the cabin and tossed it out the broken front port on the other side, swinging it so that the #-mile-an-hour slipstream snapped it back in through the rearmost port like a bullet. "Pick it up and pass it out the right rear port," he commanded. "We'll have to pass it to each other from port to port. The slipstream won't let us swing it forward and through." In a few moments, the two of them had worked the missile and the cable end to the right front port and in through it. Originating above the plane, it now made a loop through the four open ports. Jonner untied the missile and tied the end to the portion which came into the cabin, making a bowline knot of the loop. Deveet picked up the missile from the floor, where Jonner had thrown it. "Looks like a spent rocket shell," he commented. "It's a signal rocket," said Jonner. "The flare trigger was disconnected." He picked up the microphone and called the Radiant Hope on Phobos. "We've hooked our fish, Qoqol," he told the Martian, and laid the mike aside. "What does that mean?" asked Deveet. "Means we'd better strap in," said Jonner, suiting the action to the words. "You're in for a short trip to Phobos, Deveet." Jonner pulled back slowly on the elevator control, and the plane began a shallow climb. At # miles an hour, it began to attain a height at which its broad wings -- broader than those of any terrestrial plane -- would not support it. "I'm trying to decide," said Deveet with forced calm, "whether you've flipped your helmet." "Nope," answered Jonner. "Trolling for those fish in Mars City gave me the idea. The rest was no more than an astrogation problem, like any rendezvous with a ship in a fixed orbit, which Qoqol could figure. Remember that #mile television cable the ship's hauling? Qoqol just shot the end of it down to Mars' surface by signal rocket, we hooked on and now he'll haul us up to Phobos. He's got the ship's engine hooked onto the cable winch." The jets coughed and stopped. The plane was out of fuel. It was on momentum -- to be drawn by the cable, or to snap it and fall. "Impossible!" cried Deveet in alarm. "Phobos' orbital speed is more than a mile a second! No cable can take the sudden difference in that and the speed we're traveling. When the slack is gone, it'll break!" "The slack's gone already. You're thinking of the speed of Phobos, at Phobos. At this end of the cable, we're like the head of a man in the control section of a space station, which is traveling slower than his feet because its orbit is smaller -- but it revolves around the center in the same time. "Look," Jonner added, "I'll put it in round numbers. Figure your cable as part of a radius of Phobos' orbit. Phobos travels at #, but the other end of the radius travels at zero because it's at the center. The cable end, at the Martian surface, travels at a speed in between -- roughly # miles an hour -- but it keeps up with Phobos' revolution. Since the surface of Mars itself rotates at # miles an hour, all I had to do was boost the plane up to # to match the speed of the cable end. "That cable will haul a hell of a lot more than twenty tons, and that's all that's on it right now. By winching us up slowly, there'll never be too great a strain on it." Deveet looked apprehensively out of the port. The plane was hanging sidewise now, and the distant Martian surface was straight out the left-hand ports. The cable was holding. "We can make the trip to Earth # days faster than the Marsward," said Jonner, "and they have only about # days' start. It won't take us but a few days to make Phobos and get this cable and the rest of the cargo shot back to Mars. AtomStar will get its franchise, and you'll see all spaceships switching to the atomic drive within the next decade." "How about this plane?" asked Deveet. "We stole it, you know." "You can hire a G-boat to take it back to Marsport," said Jonner with a chuckle. "Pay Mars-Air for the time and the broken ports, and settle out of court with that pilot we dropped. I don't think they'll send you to jail, Deveet." He was silent for a few minutes. "By the way, Deveet," said Jonner then, "radio Atom-Star to buy some flonite cable of their ownand ship it to Phobos. Damned if I don't think this is cheaper than G-boats!"    # -- Electron. # -- Catalysis. # -- Inversely. # -- #. # -- One. # -- Parthogenesis. #I -- #. # -- Right angles. # -- #. # -- Violet. # -- Hydrogen. # -- One. # -- Two. # -- Hydrogen. # -- Balloons. # -- ##ths. clroie The Car was the new concept of the golden calf. And the Green Pastures and Still Waters had been replaced by the Happy Highways of Heaven... Object worship reached its heyday in the mid twenty-first century. The bluebird, which had already become a number of ignominious things, finally became an automobile. It grew chrome wings and exchanged its heart for a carburetor, its feet for wheels and its backyard for a pedestal in The Church of the Happy Traveler. It was inevitable that the procedure for catching it should change. Sunday. Marcus Brett shouldered his way through the vestibule into the big Showroom and paused at the head of the center aisle. The Showroom was ablaze with the bluewhite radiance of fluorescent candles, a radiance brightly multiplied by the mirrored walls, caught by the polished chrome ceiling and flung blindingly down upon the congregation. The new Seneca model which was to be unveiled stood upon the pedestal behind the Dealer's dais, concealed by a huge damask sheet. Brett looked at it hungrily, trying to visualize its new lines, its new combination of colors. He took a slow deep breath, then started down the aisle toward his reserved seat. The seat next to his was Czech's, Brett's turn-buddy. Brett Illustrated by Kelly Freas was surprised to find it occupied by a White Collar girl. White Collar Workers were getting bolder and bolder every day. Not that the girl's boldness was going to do her any good : as soon as Czech showed up she'd have to leave. She glanced at Brett curiously when he sat down beside her and he returned the glance with his flat gray eyes. Her hair was short and dark and her eyes were a limpid brown. Her small turned up nose and round cheeks lent her face a quality of childish innocence; it could almost have passed for a little girl's face if her full lips hadn't given it away. She was wearing a cheap majorette ensemble, but cheap or not, on her robust young body it looked good. Quite without his knowing it, Brett's glance had become a stare. The girl dropped her eyes, obviously embarrassed, though she did not blush. Brett turned away then, irked at the direction of his thoughts, and tried to concentrate on the sheet covered model. It looked slightly longer than last year's job, but he couldn't be sure. However, an increase in length was a good bet, for the Seneca manufacturers had a tradition to live up to : every new model they put on the market virtually had to be longer than its predecessor... Gradually Brett became aware of a subtle perfume. There was something about it -- perhaps the nostalgic scent of apple blossoms which it contained -- that intrigued him. There was no question as to its source and it was all he could do to keep his eyes on the sheet covered model where they belonged. He was relieved when the electronic organ struck up the Seneca hymn and the choir came down the aisle. Brett listened to their voices with usual dedication, but he still smelled apple blossoms. After the choir had aligned themselves on either side of the pedestal and delivered their last note, the Dealer himself appeared, resplendent in a gold and scarlet robe. He walked slowly and majestically down the aisle, stepped upon the dais, and turned to face the congregation. His eyes surveyed the packed Showroom. "My children," he said simply, in his deep resonant voice; then, after a brief prayer, he began the Seneca beadtudes: "Blessed are the rubber forests of Vega Twelve for their worthy contribution to the betterment of Mankind. Blessed are the mountains of Rigel Seven for their tin and their copper and their magnesium... And finally -- "Blessed are the rust red plains of Alpha Crucis Fourteen, for without their manganese, their titanium, and their iron ore, life as we know it would have long since perished from the Earth." The sermon followed. It was a typical sermon, exalting the supreme patience of the Finance Bishop and deprecating the thoughtless irresponsibility of the average consumer. Brett shifted uneasily. He had a guilty conscience. During the caryear which was now drawing to a close, he'd missed three weekly installments and had had to have them prorated. As a result, the remaining installments had been so huge that he'd barely been able to manage them, and he'd come uncomfortably close to losing his Seneca. Even now, with his final payment safely deposited with the Finance Bishop, the very thought of such a calamity was enough to evoke tiny globules of sweat on his brow. He promised himself to be more conservative in the future, chase fewer women, drink fewer Dream Girls. Then his attention wandered. The Dealer was explaining a new decree which the Finance Bishop had issued, and decrees bored Brett to death. He unsealed his white driving jacket and slumped down in his seat, crossing his booted legs. The apple blossom scent was all around him, more intriguing than ever. He wondered rather desperately what had happened to Czech and concluded that something important must have come up and made it impossible for him to attend the services. At last the sermon ended and the moment for the unveiling arrived. The congregation murmured in awed expectation, and there was an over-all shift in the spectrum of gaudy driving jackets as everyone leaned forward in his seat. After giving forth with the usual panegyrics concerning the superiority of Seneca models in general and the new Seneca model in particular, the Dealer said: "And now it is my privilege to reveal our latest creative masterpiece -- the Bluebird!" Fie raised one square bejeweled hand and the sheet fluttered ceilingward like a frightened cloud. At first there was only silence, and then a mass Ahhhh rose from the congregation. Following the Ahhhh, voice after voice was raised in reverent astonishment. "Why," Brett gasped, "it is longer. A good ten inches longer!" "It's a dream," the White Collar girl breathed. "Beautiful," Brett murmured. "Beautiful beautiful beautiful..." He began to notice some of the details he had glossed over in his first moment of rapture. The Bluebird was not only longer than last year's model, it was lower, too: its highest point was barely three feet above the pedestal. And there was a striking change in the chrome decor, the main feature being a blue flanks so suggestive of movement that it was hard to believe the car was standing still. "It looks almost as if it could fly," the White Collar girl said. In his excitement, Brett forgot her status. "It's a swell job all right," he said, turning towards her. "Such a beautiful blue!" Briefly, Brett forgot the car. The girl's enthusiasm had turned her full cheeks pink, made her dark eyes sparkle. Her cheap majorette ensemble was painfully conspicious in a gathering where women wore feminine adaptations of masculine driving attire; nevertheless, it brought out her figure in a way that a pair of thigh-tight breeches and a breast-fitted jacket never could have. Abruptly Brett wondered what she'd be like undressed. He'd never tried to pick up a White Collar girl, not only because they were beneath his social status, but because it had never occurred to him that any of them would be worth the trouble. This one looked like she might be worth a lot of trouble. "What's your name?" he asked impulsively, invisible apple blossoms falling all around him. "Linda," she said. "Linda Dalms." "Mark Brett... Like to ride?" Her eyes had been on his face. At his question they dropped to the gaudy Seneca insigne on the collar of his jacket. "Yes. Yes I do." "How would it be if I picked you up around six tonight and we take a whirl?" "It would be divine," Linda said... The Dealer was bringing the services to a close. "Tonight," he said, "the Bluebird will be placed on display in Seneca Square. While there will be enough of the new models to supply all our customers, I'd advise all prospective buyers to place their orders before Turn-In Friday in order to be assured of delivery by New Car Sunday. Orders will be taken in the vicarage immediately following the end of the services." After the prayer, Brett accompanied Linda to the street. Standing in the April morning sunlight, he said: "Guess I'll order mine right away. No sense waiting." He watched for a gleam of envy to come into her eyes; such a reaction on the part of a person who couldn't even buy one of the chrome wings of the new model would have been logical. But Linda's eyes remained the samelarge and limpid and guileless -- and all she said was, "I'm glad, Mr. Brett." Brett was annoyed. "Whereabouts in Center City do you live?" he asked abruptly. She hadn't said she lived in Center City and his assuming that she did was a calculated insult, even though both of them knew she couldn't possibly live anywhere else. But if the insult got home, she gave no sign. "The old office block," she said. "Building #, Apartment #." "I'll see you about six," Brett said. He was about to turn and walk away, but she beat him to it. She threw a soft goodbye over her shoulder just before the departing crowd engulfed her. He stood there furious for a moment, but a wisp of her perfume had lingered behind her and when it touched his nostrils his anger dissolved. Suddenly he remembered the small apple orchard in which he had played as a little boy. The whole scene came back, the trees with their pink-white blossoms, his mother reading in the nearby summerhouse ; the utter peace and tranly June day... The orchard was gone now, leveled to make room for the new illuminated Raceway, the orchard and the antique double garage behind which it had stood; and his mother too, for that matter, killed in the same five car pile-up in which his father had perished magnificently. Only the memory remained, strengthened by the number of times he had had to recall it orally in the presence of the finance psychoanalyst during the yearly pre-contract examination, and triggered now by the ersatz scent of apple blossoms contained in a White Collar girl's perfume. It was far from being an unpleasant memory, and ordinarily Brett would have permitted his mind to dwell upon it. But there was a much more important item on his mind this morning and the memory had scarcely touched his consciousness before the Bluebird brushed it aside with a scintillating flurry of chrome wings. Brett turned and began walking towards the vicarage. The Seneca vicarage adjoined the Seneca cathedral, facing the mile-wide business boulevard that encircled Center City. While its modest facade could not compete with the glorious facade of the cathedral itself, it was imposing in its own right. It had no chromemullioned windows of course, and no chrome-garnished steeples; but its ornamental glassbrick design was pleasing to the eye, and it boasted the largest display window of any vicarage in the city. Last year's Seneca -- the Four window. Brett merely glanced at it as he passed. A year ago its sleek lines and scarlet body had dazzled him, and he had been one of the thousands of enthusiastic First Owners to drive in the New Car Sunday Parade. But now he had glimpsed the Bluebird and beside looked like an antique clunker, only too deserving of the fiery demise which awaited it in one of the open hearths during the coming caryear. A queue of people had formed outside the vicarage door and Brett appended himself to it. He lit a cigarette and smoked nervously. It was noon by the time he stood in front of the caged window and presented his identity disk to the acolyte in charge. The acolyte took the disk and placed it beneath the objective eye of the electronic examiner. Brett waited complacently for the familiar "Beep" of approval. He was demoralized when the examiner emitted the raucous buzz that signified credit disqualification. "There must be some mistake," he said tightly. "Try it again." The acolyte did so. The buzz sounded again, more raucous than before. "There's no mistake," the acolyte said. "But there must be!" Brett's whole world was tottering. "I want to see the Dealer. I demand to see the Dealer!" "If you wish." The acolyte depressed a button with his elbow. "Another one, Father," he said into his wristcom, giving Brett's name and number. Then he raised his wrist to his ear, listened a moment, finally lowered his arm and depressed the elbow switch again. The Dealer will see you presently," he said to Brett, handing back the disk. "Take a seat, please." There was a bench running the length of the office at right angles to the acolyte's window. Brett saw that it was already crowded, and he felt some consolation in the evident fact that his disk wasn't the only one that the examiner had rejected. He made room for himself, wedging his lean body between a perspiring fat man and a sniffling woman; then he folded his arms across his chest and gazed up through the transparent ceiling into the pale blue April sky. A jet had just finished stratosphere-writing. Brett read the familiar sentence automatically: dropped his eyes to the tile floor. The Finance Man had been close upon his heels for the past several months and the experience had been harrowing. And then the thought struck him: perhaps his three defaulted payments had had something to do with his credit disqualification. He shook his head. Missing payments and prorating them was common practice, and becoming more common every day. It was unthinkable that the Finance Bishop would disqualify anyone's credit on those grounds alone. Or was it? Brett spent the next two hours trying to convince himself that it was. Every fifteen minutes or so a small, tousle-haired acolyte threw open the door leading to the Dealer's quarters, called a name, and one of the occupants of the bench got up and followed him out of the office. But the bench never emptied. At intervals the examiner behind the acolyte's window would emit a raucous buzz, and shortly thereafter another crestfallen consumer would come over and sit down. Presently the tousle-haired acolyte opened the door and said: "Marcus Brett." Brett got up, followed him through a long cool corridor, through two sumptuous outer rooms and into a large study. Three of the study walls were lined with car catalogues, parts manuals, and road atlases -- all bound in imitation Morocco leather. On the wall opposite the door hung a huge three-dimensional mural depicting the popular conception of the Highways of Heaven : shining roads leaped like shards of light from fleecy cloud to fleecy cloud against a backdrop of breathless blue, and here and there along the promised highways could be seen the speeding cars of the Happy Travelers. The Dealer sat behind a tremendous chrome desk studying a thick sheaf of papers. He had divested himself of his sacerdotal robes and was wearing a black, smartly-cut driving jacket that contrasted effectively with the whiteness of his turned around collar. He looked up when Brett and the acolyte entered, dismissing the acolyte with a wriggle of his little finger. "Sit down, my son," he said to Brett, indicating a chrome chair by the desk. Brett complied nervously and the Dealer returned his attention to the papers. He was an old man -- fortyfive at least. But that was not surprising for Dealers were usually good drivers. The ancient tortoiserimmed spectacles which he affected gave his full square face an aristocratic touch, and his dark brown hair grew gray and graceful along his temples. After a moment he looked up at Brett again. "You realize, do you not," he said in his deep pleasant voice, "that these papers which I am perusing are facsimiles of your contract, your promptitude record, your character analysis, and your biography?" "Yes, Father." "An electronic examiner never makes a mistake, but I am always tomer's dossier if he so wishes. I have checked yours thoroughly and see nothing that would invalidate the examiner's decision. What makes you think that your credit does not deserve disqualification?" "I can't see any reason why it should deserve disqualification," Brett said hoarsely. "My Four Million's all paid for -- I deposited my last installment in the Finance Bishop's account yesterday. Maybe I defaulted once or twice, but -- " "Three times," the Dealer said... "Did you attend my services this morning?" "Certainly, Father. I attend your services every Sunday." The Dealer shook his large handsome head in mild despair. "You attend them -- and hear nothing of what I say. This morning I called everyone's attention to the new restriction which the Finance Bishop has seen fit to impose on future finance contractions, yet apparently no one in the Showroom heard me other than myself." Brett hung his head. "I heard you mention something about a restriction, but I'm afraid I missed exactly what it was." "I'll repeat verbatim what I said." The Dealer leaned forward, resting his elbows on the polished chrome of the desktop. "Listen carefully, my son: In view of the fact that delinquency in weekly finance payments has increased deplorably during the recent caryear, the Finance Bishop has been forced to issue the following decree: 'Any car buyer who has defaulted on more than two installments during the caryear ending April #, # shall be deemed unworthy of contract renewal on any new model unless ( I ) he deposits a down payment in addition to the traditional one third allowance on his last year's model, said payment not to be less than one fourth the amount of the remaining balance, or (#) he submits evidence that his character has, or will in the near future, come under the stabilizing influence of a factor hitherto unpresent.' " Brett was on his feet. His face was ashen. "But that's fantastic, Father!" he shouted. "You know I can't raise that much money!" The Dealer raised a square, twinkling hand. "Calm yourself, my son. If alternative number one is impracticable, why not consider alternative number two? And in this connection, may I presume to elaborate upon the Finance Bishop's erudite, but somewhat confusing, phraseology? The factor to which His Holiness refers is, to put it simply, marriage. It is a statistical fact that of all the car buyers who defaulted on more than two payments during the recent caryear, ninety-eight percent were unattached men or women, the men predominating by a ratio of almost two to one. Quite obviously the responsibilities of conjugality have a stabilizing effect upon both sexes, particularly the male; add to this happy eventuality the fact that marriage brings two incomes together over the same garage and you begin to appreciate the shrewd reasoning behind the Bishop's decree... Have you any marital prospects, my son?" Brett shook his head numbly. His last affair had been dead embers for more than a week, and the one coming up with the White Collar girl didn't count. A White Collar girl was a far cry from being a marital prospect. "Then I'd suggest," the Dealer continued, "that you start looking around. And may I remind you," he added, his wide, thin-lipped mouth curving in a bleak smile, "that you haven't much time if you don't want to get caught without a new car. You have, in fact -- "and he glanced at his watch -- "six days, nine hours, forty minutes, and some odd seconds before New Car SunDay." He wriggled his little finger and the tousle-haired acolyte appeared magically in the doorway. "Show Consumer Brett out through the side entrance," the Dealer said. "And for Seneca's sake, comb your hair!" the parklot. He was so upset that he almost climbed into his Seneca without deactivating the sentry and he came close to getting his brains blown out for trying to steal his own car. The sentry was the latest car thief device to be put on the market, and like all the devices that had preceded it, it would be good only until the car thieves got onto it. Otherwise its only drawback was its impartiality: while it was functioning anyone who came within its field of vision was automatically classified as a car thief and shortly thereafter became a car thief with a hole in his head. Driving along the boulevard, Brett considered getting rid of the deadly little mechanism. He decided not to. The safety of his Seneca warranted a little personal danger. After all, it was the only car he had, and from the way things were beginning to look, it was the last car he was ever going to have. He made a complete circuit of the business district, his mind reverting to the Bluebird. He had never wanted a car so badly. Presently he turned down one of the tangent streets that led to Peripheral City. After the mile-wide boulevard, Peripheral City seemed friendly and secure. Brett drove along slowly, winding through the idyllic streets, looking at the trimmed hedges and the pruned shade trees, the neat garages set well back from the street and reached by concrete, blacktop, pebble, or gravel driveways; the charming little self-service stations tucked away in maple arbors. Garages always fascinated him, regardless of his mood. There was that colonial affair, with sedate hedgerows leading up to its early American double doors; and then, a block farther on, that ranch type affair, so low and rambling that there was hardly enough space for the overhead apartment. Double garages predominated of course; one car families were unusual in Peripheral City, and a single garage almost invariably implied a single man or woman. Presently he came to the street that led to his own garage and turned down it. His problem was heavy on his shoulders as he climbed the narrow stairs to his overhead apartment, and when he bumped his head on the low beam in the kitchenette, his morale was far from being improved. He ordered a salmon course from the Instantcook, and picked at it disinterestedly when it emerged. For one of the few times in his life he couldn't concentrate on his food. All he could think of was the Bluebird. He glanced at his watch. He had nearly two hours to kill before he could pick up Linda. He decided against going for a ride -- riding would only bring the Bluebird more poignantly to mind. That left #V. Brett threw the remnants of his meal into the devourer and went into the compact living room. He sat down in his relaxer and toed on the #V set. The Construction Engineer materialized on the screen. Ordinarily Brett never listened to the Construction Engineer. Changing channels when the thin haunted face appeared was practically a conditioned reflex in any car owner. But Brett wasn't himself today, and he lay back in his relaxer, hardly aware of what the man was saying. However, his indifference was short-lived. There was a quality about the Construction Engineer's voice that commanded attention : a deep, vibrant sincerity that belied the insanity of his perspective, the dearth of logic behind his words. His words were many -- " -- cannot impart sanctity. Stealing the hierarchical nomenclature, the architectonics, and the ceremonial garb from a genuine institution and integrating them into a pseudo-institution can never validate that pseudo-institution in the eyes of God. A money lender is still a money lender no matter what title he confers upon himself. Spires do not a cathedral make, nor sacerdotal robes a man of God. "Economic necessity can never justify the apotheosis of metal. The fact that the yearly turnover of automobiles is inexorably related to the financial security of the individual is an inadequate foundation for a religion. I say to you: Better an economic chaos than the idealogical chaos which affronts us now!" Brett shifted uncomfortably in the relaxer. What the Construction Engineer was saying was pure nonsense, but his sincerity was to unquestionable that the nonsense took on some of the aspects of sense. Perhaps that was why the Dealers feared him so much, why they campaigned so incessantly against him. The Seneca Dealer was the most zealous campaigner, possibly because it was the Seneca Memorial Trust Building that had precipitated the Construction Engineer's heresy. A year ago his bid had been accepted by the Seneca Foundation and he had begun the job on schedule. Then, the day following the ceremonial laying of the first cornerstone, he had inexplicably disappeared. All efforts to contact him had failed, and finally another contractor had been engaged. Then, six months later, the Construction Engineer had reappeared, purchased #V time, and commenced his series of anti-automobile lectures. To date, the Dealers had been unable to do much about him. Even the Finance Bishop was helpless. For although the Construction Engineer's lectures sometimes embodied economic and ethical heresy, he had never advocated the overthrow of the existent society on any but a religious level and therefore could not be prosecuted. With an effort Brett raised his eyes to the man's face. It was an old face -- the Construction Engineer was a good fifty. But considering the fact that he had not driven a car for years, his age was not unusual. In spite of himself Brett found himself listening to the man's words: "The canonization in the year # of the original automobile manufacturers was the result of diverse pressures: the whole economy hinged on car output and car consumption ; the four-wheeled raison d'etre of the average individual had long ago been established; and the automobile foundations had already begun the initial experiments in faster-thanlight drives that led eventually to the conquest of interstellar space -- and of course to the acquisition of desperately needed natural resources. "But the canonization of the original automobile manufacturers can never justify the series of sacrilegious events that followed it: the new sales methods, the renaming of names, the rebuilding of showrooms to resemble cathedrals, the creation of the Church of the Happy Traveler and its subsequent usurpation of all religious activities in the western world; the supplanting of Green Pastures and Still Waters with the immature concept of the Highways of Heaven -- " The Construction Engineer paused, as though overcome by his own rhetoric. "What," he asked abruptly, "is a car?" There was a blackboard behind him and, turning, he printed the letter "A" in the upper left hand corner and the letter "B" in the lower right hand corner. "A car," he went on, "is a mechanical conveyance capable of transporting us from point "A" to point "B", or, conversely, from point "B" to point "A". It is nothing more than that. "It is a means toward an end, and as long as it is so regarded, it is beneficial to the human race. When, however, it is regarded as an end in itself, nothing but tragedy can result -- " With a convulsive movement Brett pressed the channel pedal with the toe of his right boot. The Construction Engineer was beginning to get on his nerves. He looked at his watch: #:# o'clock. If he stopped some place and had a few drinks he could be at Linda's apartment long enough after six to convince her that he didn't much care whether she went riding with him or not. He descended to the garage, deactivated the sentry and got in his Seneca. He chose a tangent street at random, made a half circle of the business boulevard and drew into the parklot of the The Hub Cap. It was dusk by then and the myriad lights of the business buildings formed coruscating palisades on either side of the car streaming boulevard. Brett brooded over a Dream Girl at the chrome bar, trying to see some way out of his dilemma. He lit a cigarette and considered selling his garage to raise the one fourth down payment which the Finance Bishop required. But if he sold his garage he'd have to live in his car, and it would only be a question of time before the carcops picked him up for Indecency. Next he considered putting a second mortgage on his garage. But that would never do: he had trouble enough keeping up the payments on the first mortgage. Finally, after three more Dream Girls, he got around to considering marriage. He didn't consider it for long. Marriage, when you were only twenty-six, was an outrageous price to have to pay, even for a Bluebird. Besides, he had no prospects anyway -- unless you counted Linda. And he was damned if he'd count her! But just the same, when he thought of her his pulse came to life, and he glanced at the clock inset in the big chrome hub cap behind the bar: #:#. He finished his fifth Dream Girl hurriedly and went out and got in his Seneca. It wasn't technically wise to be too late. Center City had once been the city before the gradual exodus to the suburbs had isolated it. Some of its buildings were centuries old, and its ancient streets were little more than series of chuck holes, frost upheavals, and fissures. A long time ago the begrimed towers had been honeycombed with offices; now the few offices needed in a society of business machines existed behind the bright facades on the business boulevard, while the old office space had been taken over by the White Collar Workers and converted into apartments. The elevator of Building # creaked alarmingly as it raised him to the ninth floor. He was relieved when he stepped out into the cluttered corridor. Old fashioned fluorescents cast pallid light on the dusty floor, lent a ghastly tinge to the peeling walls. Many of the rooms were vacant, but most of them were occupied by squabbling families. The stale odor of plankton soup hung in the air like miasma. By the time he found Apartment #, Brett was sorry he had come. Then, when the battered door opened at his knock and Linda stepped out to meet him, he was suddenly glad that he had come. The odor of plankton soup faded away and the corridor became an apple orchard in June. Linda had exchanged the majorette ensemble for a simple dacron dress, and she looked like a Greek goddess with a baby face who had just descended the slopes of Olympus to find out what mortal life was all about. Brett took a slow, deep breath. "All set, baby?" he said. When Brett was a small boy attending elementary tech, there had been a certain period which he and all the other pupils looked forward to each day. It was the period during which the identifilms -- donated by the Seneca, the Oneida, or one of the other Dealers -- were shown, and it was called the Daydream Hour. Invariably the identifilms dealt with automobiles, and invariably the youthful audience got a chance to get behind the wheel at least once during the hour. Total identification techniques were primitive in those days, but they were capable of lending a sense of participation, especially if you were a child. The film that had made the deepest impression on Brett depicted a boy taking his girl for a ride in a new Seneca. The boy was Brett's own age and Brett identified with him easily, and shortly he was behind the wheel and feeling the pulse of the car beneath his feet and the summer wind in his hair. From that moment on, he had lived for the time when he could really climb into a new Seneca and really take his girl for a ride on the Speedway. He had realized the Daydream many times by now of course, though the Speedway had bowed out before the wider and better banked Raceway; but those first vicarious moments were still sweet in his memory, and he knew he would never forget them as long as he lived. "Do you always drive so fast?" Linda asked. "You call this fast?" Brett said. "You should ride to work with me some time!" The illuminated Raceway had its usual Sunday evening complement of hurtling cars. Brett twisted adroitly in and out, never diminishing the Seneca's speed unless collision were unavoidable. The myriad lights of the Seneca Assembly Plant began to flicker by. Brett pointed. "That's where they put these jobs together," he said. "Do you work there?" "Not me. I run an open hearth." "Oh." It was a small "oh." And small wonder, Brett thought. The kid was probably overawed. Here was a world she had probably never seen before, imprisoned as she was in the cramped canyons of Center City. The lights of the Seneca Stamping Plant came next, and after them, the haze-dimmed lights of the Seneca Steel Mill. Brett pointed out the open hearth which he operated, but it was behind them by the time Linda turned her head. "Ever seen the spaceport?" he asked. "Not for years." "I know a parking place where we can get a good view of the ships. "What d'you say?" "All right," Linda said. Brett watched for the turnoff, and when it appeared, slipped smoothly out of the stream of traffic. The darkness of the countryside activated the Seneca's headlights, and the macadam leaped into bright visibility. It was familiar territory to Brett and he drove confidently, taking the banked curves at an easy ninety. It was the kind of driving he liked best. The spires of the ships began to show against the starred sky. Brett slowed the Seneca, keeping an eye on the right shoulder of the macadam. Presently the sign he was It was a dirt road, badly eroded by the spring rains. He followed it to the crest of the hill from which it had obtained its name, then turned off into a blackened field. The hill had been halved to make room for the expanding port, and he braked the Seneca near the edge of the man-made cliff. There was a ship squatting in the blasting pit at the foot of the cliff, its tapered prow rising high above the halved hilltop. Beyond it, the prows of other ships showed, some in darkness, some pied with the round radiance of open ports. Brett turned off the motor and extinguished the headlights. He turned to Linda. "Like it here?" "Is it safe? That sign back there -- " "That sign is for rubes who don't know anything about ship schedules," Brett said. "That big job in the pit there is the only one close enough to bum us and it isn't due to blast off till Turn-In Friday. It's a prison ship." "If it did blast right now, there wouldn't be much left of us, would there, Mark?" she said. "Not even ashes. But I didn't bring you all the way up here just to talk about ships." He slipped his arm around her shoulders. She moved closer to him. Her face, when he bent down to kiss her, was soft and pale in the starlight; her lips were tender, cool and moist. Apple blossoms fell aromatically and April changed subtly to June. A sense of security pervaded Brett; he felt safe and warm and wanted... His hand fumbled with the shoulder strap of the dacron dress, then paused of its own accord. He tried again, and again his hand refused to do his bidding. He raised his head and looked down into Linda's round starlit face. Her eyes seemed more limpid than ever, and from their deeps the reflected stars looked steadily up at him. Tenderness suffused him, tenderness and anger. For with the tenderness came the realization that he could not treat this girl the way he had treated all the others. His need for her was different; it was far more complex than the simple craving he'd experienced in the presence of the other girls he had taken out. He could not analyze it -- it was far beyond him ; and finally he gave up trying. He bent and kissed her again and contentment and peace engulfed him. He became a wanderer in the enchanted universe of her lips and her subtle perfume. When he raised his head and looked around him the night had attained a new beauty: a simple beauty of land and sky and stars. He knew that if he kissed her again he would say things he would regret in the morning, and he knew that if they stayed there on the hilltop he could not help kissing her again. Brett was a practical man. He kneed the starter and the Seneca purred in the night, its headlights picking up the pitted hull of the prison ship. He withdrew his arm from Linda's shoulder. "Feel like riding?" he asked. Her limpid eyes regarded him quietly, and again he saw the reflected stars in their depths. The laughing stars -- For a moment he had the eerie feeling that she knew exactly what he was thinking, exactly why he was running away. But she only said: "I love to ride." about Linda and he got up the next morning and went to work still thinking about Linda. Her face accompanied him up to the air-conditioned control booth and her eyes mocked him as he sat down before the televised images of his six furnaces, numbers # through #. "#'s ready," the #-# man said, donning his jacket. "I just took a test bar... How's the car?" "Fine," Brett said. "How's yours?" "Couldn't be better. Be seeing you." Brett lit a cigarette and blew smoke into Linda's face. Then he tapped #, giving his attention to the pit screen while the blue-white heat poured out into the three hundred ton ladle. His fingers moving unerringly over the intricate maze of buttons on the horizontal remote control panel. He started number # charger on the limestone charge. The scrap charge was late and he phoned Yard to hurry it up. Pit called. "# be ready this turn?" Czech asked. Brett glanced at the tapping time schedule. "No." "That's good news," Czech said... "How's the Seneca?" "Fine," Brett said. "How's yours?" "Great." Brett thought of something. "Where were you yesterday? I didn't see you at the Services." "I got called before the Finance Bishop," Czech said. "Somehow they forgot to process my last ten payments and the F. B. thought I'd defaulted. But when I kept insisting that I was paid up to date, he checked back and found out that his office was to blame. Some efficiency! How was the Bluebird?" "Out of this world," Brett said. "Going to get one?" "Certainly I'm going to get one! Why should you ask that?" "Don't get mad. I was just curious." "I'm not mad!" Brett hung up. His hands were trembling. Linda had driven the Bluebird out of his thoughts, but now it flew back, more tantalizing than before. If he continued to Turn-In Friday, he would automatically become a social outcast. There was no law that said you had to turn your car in every year. But there were the expressions on peoples' faces and there was the contempt in peoples' eyes; there was the hollow feeling inside you that you did not belong; that you were no better than the White Collar Workers who walked all their lives because their wages never permitted them to amass the amount of a down payment. Abruptly his thoughts switched back to Linda. Why should a poverty-stricken White Collar girl affect him so? What quality did she have that his other girls had lacked? He did not know. He only knew that he had to see her again, that the security and contentment he had experienced in her company had only whetted his appetite. Yard had sent up the scrap charge, and Brett started number # charger in on the first buggy. He never tired of watching a scrap charge. He loved to see the compressed bodies of last year's cars being shoved into the White-hot maw of the hearth, dumped unceremoniously, then left to turn into unshapely pink ghosts, finally to dissolve into the yellow ignominy of molten metal. Soon, he knew, he would be getbodies. And none to soon. Last year's scrap inventory was nearly exhausted and the open hearths needed new material. In his absorption with the scrap charge Brett had forgotten Linda and the Bluebird, but the moment the charger dumped the last pan, both returned to haunt him. For the first time he saw Linda and the Bluebird in relationship to each other, and a common solution to both problems began to germinate in his mind. It was time for #'s drink and Brett brought the hot metal ladle down on number I crane, set the spout in number # door, and slowly tilted the ladle till the red-gold Crucis ore spilled in a steady molten flow down into the bath. His mind was exceedingly clear now. There were two main objectives: (#) to get the Bluebird, (#) to have his way with Linda. Getting the Bluebird involved getting married; having his way with Linda, and placating his incomprehensible idealization of her, involved the same thing. But there was one more consideration: his self respect. Steel workers in their right minds did not marry White Collar girls. Not if they wanted to keep their self respect. But a steel worker could marry a White Collar girl and keep his self respect if he had the marriage annulled as soon as he got what he wanted. And getting the annulment would be no problem: no judge could possibly fail to see the incongruity of such a union once it was brought to his attention. Relief ran warmly through Brett's body. Here was the perfect solution; here was the loophole which the Finance Bishop had overlooked. Not only would he be able to get the Bluebird, but he would be able to make love to Linda without coming into conflict with his idiotic idealization of her; and he would emerge from the whole transaction a free man. It was time for #'s drink. Brett whistled happily as he guided number I crane down the floor to the hot metal pit. The world had never seemed so bright. After the turn he shaved and showered, then he dressed and went down to the open hearth parklot. He deactivated the sentry, then he started the Seneca and drove it out of the lot and onto the Raceway. He gunned it up to one ten. The April wind sang in the vents, and the sky was a brisk spring blue. He stopped at a Raceway restaurant and ordered a scallop plate. There was a #V screen behind the counter and a tele-newscast was in progress. The Construction Engineer was the number one topic of the day; according to the announcer he had gone berserk on the previous night and left himself wide open to legal prosecution. The scene of his activities had been Seneca Square. He had desecrated the alabaster statue of the Seneca Dealer by writing "Thou shalt not steal!" across its base, and he had desecrated the Bluebird, which had just been put on display, by printing "Golden Calf II" on its windshield. Moreover, the announcer said, the Construction Engineer had performed both acts in the presence of a dozen witnesses, against him. It was as though he were proud of his heretic vandalism, though not proud enough -- the announcer added -- to remain on the scene till the police arrived. "Mr. District Attorney has let it be known," the announcer concluded, "that every force at his command will be utilized to apprehend this madman in our midst. Informed sources say that the Construction Engineer is at present hiding out in Center City." Brett finished the rest of his scallops and lit a cigarette. He wondered if the Foundations would ever get far enough ahead on raw materials so that they could develop at least one of their planets along agricultural lines -- a project they had been promising the people for decades. Seafood was all right, but it got monotonous after a while. Meat wasn't even available on the black market any more, and potatoes were no more than a dream remembered. But the economy came first, and automobiles were the backbone of the economy, and you couldn't very well manufacture automobiles without the necessary metals and people couldn't very well drive them without the necessary fuel. Besides, there were plenty of fish in the ocean, so there wasn't really any need for extra-terrestrial agricultural development -- as long as traffic fatalities continued to counterbalance population. Brett paid the electronic cashier and went outside. The sky was more briskly blue than before, and the breeze coming in over the factoried fields was acrid with spring. High in the sky a jet was stratosphere-writing. Brett watched idly as the lofty letters emerged: He smiled. No, not today, he thought. Nor tomorrow. His courtship of Linda was going to take a little time. But definitely by Turn-In Friday! covered, had a Fitzgerald effect on time. At first she was very quiet when he picked her up for their second date, opening the door of her apartment before he even had time to knock, then closing the door quickly behind her and taking his arm. But her quietness gave way to gayety when he took her to the latest identi-scope where they became vicarious bride and groom in a hilarious highway marriage. Afterwards on the Raceway she snuggled against his shoulder, so close that her soft hair tickled his neck and her perfume enveloped him like an enchanted cloud. Almost before he knew it, it was time to take her home. That was Monday night. Tuesday night he took her dining, and later in the evening they found a charming little cafe in the country where you could sit at a rustic table in a secluded corner and listen to the muted strains of the latest love songs, and drink and talk -- They talked of many things. Brett talked about his work, and she listened attentively. But when it came time for her to talk about her work, she said very little, only that she was a secretary and that she hated her job. Brett thought he understood her reticence and did not press her. After a while the Construction Engineer crept into their conversation. "I can't figure him out," Brett said. "What's he trying to accomplish?" "He has a Christ-complex," Linda said. "Can't you recognize the pattern?" "You mean he thinks he's Christ?" Linda's voice had become bitter. "Yes. He thinks he's Christ." "But he's never claimed to be." "Of course not. Did Christ ever publicly claim to be the Messiah? It's all a part of the pattern. His disappearance a year ago was supposed to symbolize Christ's sojourn in the wilderness, and his #V harangues are supposed to symbolize the ministry in Galilee; his antisocial demonstration in Seneca Square the other night was supposed to represent Christ's conflict with the Pharisees and the Sanhedrin. He's deliberately seeking both persecution and prosecution now, and probably will contrive some way of attaining symbolic crucifixion." "But why?" Brett demanded. Linda's eyes were on the chequered tablecloth. Sadness routed the bitterness from her voice. "Because he's sick," she said. "Though of course he thinks that we are the ones who are sick and that he is the physician come to cure us. By playing Christ he hopes to change society -- eliminate the automobile, the Raceways, and so forth. His perspective is so warped that he can't realize that a high traffic fatality rate is the only effective way to counterbalance population increase; that the public's endorsement of the Church of the Happy Traveler is not the result of materialism but of economic pressure ; or that economic pressure is merely a civilized way of saying 'fear of hunger'. Considering the economic importance of the automobile to the average consumer, its apotheosis isn't any more abnormal than the fertility rites of the ancient Egyptians, or the worship of the rain gods by the Zuni." "You seem to know a lot about him," Brett said. "Why are you so interested in him?" "Because -- Oh, never mind. I don't want to talk about him any more!" She raised her eyes and the desperation in them astonished him. "It's so close in here. Can't we go riding somewhere?" "The Raceway?" "Yes. Yes. The Raceway. And drive fast, Mark. Fast... The Construction Engineer was apprehended the next morning. Brett was eating a late breakfast when the bulletin bulb on his #V turned red and began to buzz. He went into the living room and toed the set on, depressing the channel pedal till the buzzing stopped and the light went off. A familiar room appeared on the screen and Brett recognized it as the vicarage office. There was the bench, and there was the acolyte's window, and beyond the window -- Brett gasped. He had never seen so many overturned tables and chairs before, so many papers of all description scattered about. In the middle of the shambles stood the Seneca Dealer, and beside him stood On-the-spot Harrigan, the traveling newscaster. An interview was in progress. The Dealer was saying. "He performed the whole sacrilegious act right in front of me. But as I said, I couldn't raise a finger to stop him. There was something about the way he looked at me -- As though -- As though he felt sorry for me." "But why should he feel sorry for you of all people, Father?" "I don't know," the Dealer said. "Well all I can say is he should have saved his pity for himself," On-the-spot Harrigan said meaningfully. "He's going to need it." He turned and faced the eye of the #V camera. "Yes folks," he went on, "he's going to need it real bad. For our minions of the law have him safely in custody, and Mr. District Attorney assures me that he'll have this infamous scoundrel shackled in the brig of the prison ship before Turn-In Friday." Brett toed off the set and returned to his breakfast. He wondered what Linda would have to say regarding this new development. She didn't say anything about it. She was pale and listless when he picked her up that night, and all she wanted to do was ride on the Raceway. He couldn't drive fast enough to suit her. Brett was disgusted. He'd planned to propose to her, but you couldn't propose to a girl while you were hurtling at a one hundred thirty mile per hour clip through a veritable river of cars. He decided to wait till he took her home, but when he pulled up before Building # she got out of the car before he had a chance to say a word; then, as though remembering his existence, she leaned through the open window and kissed him warmly on the lips. "I know I've been terribly poor company," she said. "But I'll make up for it tomorrow night." "Promise?" Brett said. "Promise!" And then she was gone and he was sitting alone in the car. It began to rain and he drove home in the rain, wondering if he was going to get the Bluebird after all. There was only one day left. He proposed to her the next night. He didn't wait for the right moment, the right background, the right anything. Time was running out, and not only that, there was a desperation inside him that he could not analyze, that he was afraid to analyze. "Will you marry me, Linda?" he said when she answered his knock. She paused in the doorway, lovely in her white dress. She did not close the door behind her as she had the night before and he could see the bare peeling walls of the apartment behind her. She said: "You can't be serious, Mark!" "Yes I can." The huskiness of his voice surprised him. His words sounded sincere even to himself. Apparently they sounded sincere to Linda too, for she said, "When?" "Right now," Brett said. His heart was pounding painfully and it was all he could do to keep from taking her in his arms and kissing away whatever objections she might have. His passion for the Bluebird astonished him; he could not recall a time when the prospect of getting a car had had so profound an effect upon his emotions. "You forgot one thing," Linda said. "When you propose to a girl you're supposed to tell her you love her." Her large limpid eyes were on his face as though daring him to say the words. A little ways down the hall a husband-wife fight was in progress, and from somewhere nearby a baby was squalling lustily. But even though the background was definitely detrimental to romance, Brett found that he could say the words easily. "I love you," he said. Her eyes dropped then. "I'll get my things," she said. She had pitifully few belongings: an armful of clothes, a handful of trinkets, and a half dozen books. Most of the books, Brett noticed, were written by the same author -- someone named Freud. He helped her carry them down to the car. By ten o'clock they were man and wife, thanks to the efficiency of the marriage processing bureau which was open twenty-four hours a day. Across the street from the marriage bureau was the separation bureau which maintained the same hours and the same efficiency. "I think the occasion calls for champagne," Brett said. "But darling, it's fabulously expensive." "We aren't going to drink an ocean of it. Just a glass or two. I've got the midnight turn tonight, so that's all we'll have time for anyway." He chose a glittering bar on the business boulevard not far from the Seneca Cathedral. Czech was there, sipping a Dream Girl at the bar. Brett waved to him as he ushered Linda to a private table, and Czech waved back, his eyes protuberant with surprise. Linda gave a little start when Czech's eyes met hers. She glanced away quickly. At first Brett felt self-conscious about being out with a White Collar girl; then he remembered that this particular girl was his wife and his self-consciousness was supplanted by pride. His pride, in turn, was supplanted by bewilderment : why in the world should he feel proud of Linda? The inevitable #V screen iridesced behind the bar, strategically located so that it was visible -- and audible -- to every customer in the place. Brett didn't want to watch #V, but when he saw the direction Linda's eyes had taken, his own eyes followed. A bulletin had just been issued. The Construction Engineer had been tried, found guilty of cardesecration, and sentenced to hard labor for the rest of his life in the Foundation mines. Two car thieves had received similar sentences at the same tribunal, and all three sentences were to be carried out immediately. The scene shifted from the studio and the announcer to the spaceport. On-the-spot Harrigan was standing at the foot of a mobile Jacob's lift. On the platform of the lift stood three men manacled together. Brett recognized the man in the middle as the Construction Engineer. "You cannot sin against your society and survive," On-the-spot Harrigan said sententiously. "The three prisoners you see standing before you have cheated on the Ride and now they must pay the Chauffeur." He raised one arm dramatically and the platform began to rise. The camera followed it. The three men stood pale and silent, their faces touched by starlight. Presently the bright rectangle of the open lock came into view and the platform stopped. Two guards stepped forth and ushered the prisoners into the ship. The lock swung shut and the scene faded out. Brett became aware of Linda's fingers digging into his wrist. When he turned to her the whiteness of her face frightened him. "That ship," she said. "It's the one we saw that night we parked on that hill, isn't it?" "That's the one," Brett said. "It blasts at dawn tomorrow -- "And the hill we were parked on. What was its name?" "Skull Hill. You haven't touched your champagne." "Skull Hill. Of course. The pattern was too perfect, it might never occur again. The fool, the poor, pitiful fool..." Her eyes glistened oddly in the rose-tinted light of the table lamp. Brett looked at her for a moment, wanting to question her, and yet reluctant to question her because he was afraid he might get answers he did not want to hear. Out of the corner of his eye he saw that Czech was looking at her too, staring at her as though he couldn't get over the fact that his turn buddy had fallen for a White Collar girl. Again the sequence of self-consciousness, pride, and bewilderment ran its gamut of Brett's emotions. But this time another phase was added. Realization. With a shock he recognized his real reason for marrying Linda. The Bluebird, for all its chrome and grandeur, had been nothing more than a rationalization, a means whereby he could fit an incongruous item into his rigid set of values. And the item was love... Brett stood up. "We can go home if you want to," he said. He took her arm and escorted her proudly to the door. He hoped that Czech was still watching but he did not turn his head to look. Suddenly he felt sorry for Czech. The #-# man had tapped # and when Brett took over the heat was still running into the pit ladle. He gave #a drink while he was waiting and by the time he replaced the hot metal ladle the last of #'s contents had run out and Czech was already pouring the heat. Brett dried #'s bottom with the robo-shoveler and closed the tap hole. He started number I charger on the limestone charge. Czech called. "Where'd you meet the Finance Bishop's secretary?" Brett had anticipated the call but he hadn't anticipated the question. He'd anticipated a number of other questions and he had his answers ready. But this one caught him unprepared. "Whose secretary?" "The F. B.'s. Don't tell me you didn't know she works for His Holiness himself!" The control booth seemed suddenly cold. "She's some number all right," Czech went on when he got no answer. "White Collar girl or not! I saw her Sunday morning when I went before the F. B. She was just leaving when I got there. I heard her tell His Holiness she had an important appointment, and away she went! Where'd you meet her?" The suspicion in Brett's mind was as yet no more than a minuscule seed but it was germinating rapidly. "I'll tell you later," he said. "The scrap charge just came up and I've got to get it started." He couldn't feel his fingers they were so numb, but they were so familiar with the console of the r.c. panel that they directed the charge of their own accord. The whole pattern of Linda's deceit emerged and arrayed itself mockingly before his eyes. She had known about the Finance Bishop's new restriction long before anyone else -- months in advance, probably -- and she had seen in it an opportunity to escape from the sidewalks to the boulevard, from the crumbling canyons of Center City to the idyllic garages of Peripheral City, from poverty to security ; and above all she had seen an opportunity to get the Bluebird. As secretary to the Finance Bishop she had access to the dossier of every car owner in the city. She had known which marriageable car owners would be affected by the new restriction and to find the most likely prospect she had merely needed to study their character analyses, their personal histories, and their financial statuses. She had finally narrowed the prospects down -- probably after a great deal of deliberation -- to a single name : Marcus Brett. As secretary to the Finance Bishop she also had access to the floor plan of every cathedral in the city. To arrange a meeting at the most opportune moment all she had had to do was vacate the seat next to Brett's. This she had done by deliberately neglecting to process Czech's last ten payments, by calling the Finance Bishop's attention to Czech's payment record a day or two before Display Sunday, and by coinciding Czech's appointment with the Finance Bishop with the unveiling of the Bluebird. The rest had been a gamble -- a gamble abetted by a perfume that was probably aphrodisiacal, a baby face, a goddess-figure, and a proficiency in the art of dissimulation. Brett's fingers were no longer numb. They were taut and purposeful, depressing combinations of switches with cold efficiency. He took a test bar of #. He filled the manganese pan for #. He gave # a shot of spar. The pit phone rang. Brett let it ring. morning Linda had disappeared. The windows of the overhead apartment were gray with dawn and the bulletin bulb was buzzing angrily. When he went into the living room Brett saw the folded sheet of paper propped before the #V screen. Wonderingly, he picked it up and unfolded it. He read the hastily written words in the red light of the bulletin bulb: Dear Mark , Czech recognized me tonight and by now he has probably told you where he saw me. No doubt you've guessed part of the truth and no doubt you hate me. When I tell you the whole truth you will despise me. Five years ago my mother was horribly mutilated in a ten car pileup on the Raceway. She lived for almost a year , if you can call  existence without a face , without sight, without hearing, without vocal chords, living. My father never left her side. The only sound she ever made was a thin whistling sound. I heard it only once. He must have heard it many times. My father is the Construction Engineer. After my mother's death, he went back to work. That is, part of him went back to work. The rest of him brooded. He did not break down till a year ago at the laying of the cornerstone of the Seneca Memorial Trust Building, and he did not break down then, really; the inner part of him took over -- the part that had exhaustively systematized the factors that resulted in my mother's death and discovered that society was to blame. I reacted to my mother's death differently. I was young and I had only heard the whistling sound once. To me my mother's death was tragic, but I did not hold society responsible. Society was nothing more to me than a musty concept and had nothing to do with the glittering galaxy of objects almost within my reach -- objects made all the more desirable by my father's refusal to let me touch them. Shortly after my mother's accident I was taken out of tech school and forbidden to ride in any kind of car whatsoever. My friends refused to associate with me; the world I had taken for granted came tumbling down around me. Owning a car of my own became more than a conditioned reflex for me: it became an obsession. I was twenty-one when my father began his symbolical acts. That was when I left home. I never saw him again till last week when he came to Center City and asked me to hide him from the police. Yesterday morning he left the apartment and committed his penultimate symbolic act -- the overturning of the tables in the "temple". When I left home there was no place for me to go except Center City. ( All my near relatives are listed in the traffic fatality files). My technical education had been cut short, so I couldn't obtain a respectable position; however, I was literate enough to obtain a white collar job, and I finally did obtain one -- with the Finance Bishop. I had only one aim in life -- to get a car. The opportunity I had been waiting for turned up two months ago when the Finance Bishop drafted his new restriction. I selected you as the most logical prospect and contrived to meet you. That much you probably know already. What you don't know is that part of the F.B.'s restriction never got through to the Dealers -- the proviso that reads: "Any person who has defaulted on more than two payments during the recent caryear and who chooses alternative number # ( marriage ) must agree to forfeit his or her purchase to his or her marriage partner in the event of a divorce or an annulment." I saw to it that it didn't go through -- but it'll be a part of the contract you'll sign tomorrow. Now you merely hate me. But in a moment you'll despise me. When you were eight you fell inlove with, your mother. You fell in love with her in an apple orchard on an afternoon in June, and the apple trees were in blossom. It's all there in your dossier. Finance psycho-analysts, like all psycho-analysts, are primarily interested in the Oedipal phase, even when it is normal. All children fall in love with their sexually opposite parent at one time or another, and to a varying degree, carry the parent's imago in their mind. But the imago is not merely a mental picture of the parent: it is a composite memory , a memory compounded of surroundings and sound; of sight and smell and taste. My perfume called your mother to your mind, whether you were aware of it or not. The taste of her lip rouge was enough to complete the illusion (I had access to her dossier too, and I had the rouge made especially.) The combined attack upon the two senses brought back the feeling of security and love which you once felt in your mother's presence, and reawakened your idealization of her. And you transferred that idealization to me. In retrospect it seems fantastic that I should have gone to such extremes to acquire an object which, now that I can acquire it, means utterly nothing to me. When you sign the contract tomorrow you needn't worry about the proviso. I don't want the Bluebird. I was glossing over the truth when I said that the apotheosis of the automobile wasn't any more abnormal than the fertility rites of the ancient Egyptians or the worship of the rain gods by the Zuhi. I wanted to prove to you -- and thereby prove to myself -- that my father was wrong in his denunciation of the Church of the Happy Traveler. Fear of hunger seldom gives birth to noble concepts, and hucksters are poor substitutes for men of God. My father was right in everything he said. You're wondering by now what made, me change my mind, and why I'm writing this. I have been sitting here in this absurd overhead apartment ever since you left. thinking of how clever I have been. But I forgot one thing -- the most important thing of all. I forgot that I, too, had been a child once, and that I had fallen in love with my sexually opposite parent. Do you know when I fell in love with my father, Mark? I fell in love with him the first time he took me riding on the Raceway. Linda Brett stood in the gray room waiting for the hatred to rise in him. He stood there waiting for a long time, cold and empty. Presently he became aware of the buzzing of the bulletin bulb and he turned the #V set on and depressed the channel pedal till the buzzing stopped and the light went out. There on the screen before him was the prison ship, gaunt in the dawnlight. Behind it was Skull Hill, its blackened top a smudge against the pinkening sky. On the edge of the man-made cliff bordering the blast pit stood a tiny figure -- unidentifiable to the casual observer, unmistakable to Brett. His emptiness left him abruptly, and he realized why he had been unable to feel hatred. The sight of Linda standing there awaiting cremation in the backwash of the prison ship brought home to him the truth that love is a thing-initself, unrelated to the factors that motivate it. And then he was running down the stairs to the garage and climbing into the Seneca -- and remembering, almost too late, the death trap he had set for thieves. The bullet struck Brett in the shoulder as he made a convulsive effort to get out of the car. He felt no pain, only numbness, and the numbness spread all through him, turning into rage. He bent and tore the deadly mechanism from its fastenings and hurled it, trailing wires and all, against the back of the garage, all the while marveling how any human being could value a possession more highly than he valued his own life. He drove furiously through the streets of Peripheral City, finally gained the Raceway. With luck he could reach her in time and with more luck he could get her to safety before the prison ship blasted. Just before he came to the turnoff he passed a four car pileup -- two Senecas, an Oneida, and a Cortez. The cars were mangled and there were mangled bodies in them, and shattered glass and blood intermingled on the macadam. The salvage crew was already on the scene, separating flesh from metal. As usual, there were no survivors. Brett had seen a thousand pileups but none of them had ever bothered him. This one, why he did not know, horrified him. He kept seeing the flesh and the metal and the blood long after he had left the Raceway behind, and for the first time he asked himself the question : W hy? The spires of the ships came into view against the brightening sky and Brett slowed. He noticed an acrid odor and traced it to the shorted wires behind the dash. His Seneca was on fire! His every instinct screamed for him to stop and extinguish the flames but the thought of Linda standing on the blackened hilltop froze his foot to the accelerator and his eyes to the sky where, any moment, he expected to see the prison ship rise on an incandescent geyser. A barrier had been erected across the entrance to Skull Hill Seneca on the shoulder of the highway and fumbled beneath the seat for the fire extinguisher. Abruptly the Brobdingnagian voice of the port tower came to life -- "The Gethsemane now blasting from pit #. Payload: sixty prisoners for occupational assignment. Destination: Alpha Crucis Fourteen... "One minute -- " Brett stood paralyzed, the fire extinguisher in his hands. "Fifty-nine seconds -- " Without a car as a down payment he would never be able to buy the Bluebird. "Fifty-eight seconds -- " He would lose his job, his garage, his social status -- "Fifty-seven seconds -- " Everything he had valued so highly, everything -- except Linda -- "Fifty-six seconds -- " The fire extinguisher slipped from Brett's fingers and he began running up the hill. As he ran, a burden slipped from his shoulders and his heart found a new rhythm -- a cadence that pounded through his whole body apprising his every cell of the new freedom. "Nineteen seconds -- " He glimpsed the hull of the (Continued on page #) Illustrated by Paul Orban love story Everything was aimed at satisfying the whims of women. The popular cliches , the pretty romances, the catchwords of advertising became realities; and the compound kept the men enslaved. George knew what he had to do... obediently George clattered down the steps from his confinement cubicle over the garage. His mother's chartreuse-colored Cadillac convertible purred to a stop in the drive. "It's so sweet of you to come, Georgie," his mother said when George opened the door for her. "Whenever you need me, Mummy." It was no effort at all to keep the sneer out of his voice. Deception had become a part of his character. His mother squeezed his arm. "I can always count on my little boy to do the right thing." "Yes, Mummy." They were mouthing a formula of words. They were both very much aware that if George hadn't snapped to attention as soon as the duty bell rang, he risked being sentenced, at least temporarily, to the national hero's corps. Still in the customary, martyr's whisper, George's mother said, "This has been such a tiring day. A man can never understand what a woman has to endure, Georgie; my life is such an ordeal." Her tone turned at once coldly practical. "I've two packages in the trunk; carry them to the house for me." George picked up the cardboard boxes and followed her along the brick walk in the direction of the white, Colonial mansion where his mother and her two daughters and her current husband lived. George, being a boy, was allowed in the house only when his mother invited him, or when he was being shown off to a prospective bride. George was nineteen, the most acceptable marriage age; because he had a magnificent build and the reputation for being a good boy, his mother was rumored to be asking twenty thousand shares for him. As they passed the rose arbor, his mother dropped on the wooden seat and drew George down beside her. "I've a surprise for you, George -- a new bidder. Mrs. Harper is thinking about you for her daughter." "Jenny Harper?" Suddenly his throat was dust dry with excitement. "You'd like that, wouldn't you, Georgie?" "Whatever arrangement you make, Mummy." Jenny Harper was one of the few outsiders George had occasionally seen as he grew up. She was approximately his age, a stunning, dark-eyed brunette. "Jenny and her mother are coming to dinner to talk over a marriage settlement." Speculatively she ran her hand over the tanned, muscle-hard curve of his upper arm. "You're anxious to have your own woman, aren't you, George?" "So I can begin to work for her, Mummy." That, at least, was the correct answer, if not an honest one. "And begin taking the compound every day." His mother smiled. "Oh, I know you wicked boys! Put on your dress trunks tonight. We want Jenny to see you at your best." She got up and strode toward the house again. George followed respectfully two paces behind her. As they passed beyond the garden hedge, she saw the old business coupe parked in the delivery court. Her body stiffened in anger. "Why is your father home so early, may I ask?" It was an accusation, rather than a question. "I don't know, Mother. I heard my sisters talking in the yard; I think he was taken sick at work." "Sick! Some men never stop pampering themselves." "They said it was a heart attack or -- "Ridiculous; he isn't dead, is he? Georgie, this is the last straw. I intend to trade your father in today on a younger man." She snatched the two packages from him and stormed into the house. Since his mother hadn't asked him in, George returned to his confinement cubicle in the garage. He felt sorry, in an impersonal way, for the husband his mother was about to dispose of, but otherwise the fate of the old man was quite normal. He had outlived his economic usefulness; George had seen it happen before. His real father had died a natural death -- from strain and overwork -- when George was four. His mother had since then bought four other husbands; but, because boys were brought up in rigid isolation, George had known none of them well. For the same reason, he had no personal friends. He climbed the narrow stairway to his cubicle. It was already late afternoon, almost time for dinner. He showered and oiled his body carefully, before he put on his dress trunks, briefs made of black silk studded with seed pearls and small diamonds. He was permitted to wear the jewels because his mother's stockholdings were large enough to make her an Associate Director. His family status gave George a high marriage value and his Adonis physique kicked the asking price still higher. At nineteen he stood more than six feet tall, even without his formal, highheeled boots. He weighed one hundred and eighty-five, not an ounce of it superfluous fat. His skin was deeply bronzed by the sunlamps in the gym; his eyes were sapphire blue; his crewcut was a platinum blond -- thanks to the peroxide wash his mother made him use. Observing himself critically in the full-length mirror, George knew his mother was justified in asking twenty thousand shares for him. Marriage was an essential part of his own plans; without it revenge was out of his reach. He desperately hoped the deal would be made with Jenny Harper. A young woman would be far less difficult for him to handle. When the oil on his skin was dry, he lay down on his bunk to catch up on his required viewing until the duty bell called him to the house. The automatic circuit snapped on the television screen above his bunk; wearily George fixed his eyes on the unreeling love story. For as long as he could remember, television had been a fundamental part of his education. A federal law required every male to watch the TV romances three hours a day. Failure to do so -- and that was determined by monthly form tests mailed out by the Directorate -- meant a three month sentence to the national hero's corps. If the statistics periodically published by the Directorate were true, George was a relatively rare case, having survived adolescence without serving a single tour of duty as a national hero. For that he indirectly thanked his immunity to the compound. Fear and guilt kept him so much on his toes, he grew up an amazingly well-disciplined child. George was aware that the television romances were designed to shape his attitudes and his emotional reactions. The stories endlessly repeated his mother's philosophy. All men were pictured as beasts crudely dominated by lust. Women, on the other hand, were always sensitive, delicate, modest, and intelligent; their martyrdom to the men in their lives was called love. To pay for their animal lusts, men were expected to slave away their lives earning things -- kitchen gadgets, household appliances, fancy cars, luxuries and stockholdings -- for their patient, long-suffering wives. And it's all a fake! George thought. He had seen his Mother drive two men to their graves and trade off two others because they hadn't produced luxuries as fast as she demanded. His mother and his pinch-faced sisters were pampered, selfish, rock-hard Amazons; by no conceivable twist of imagination could they be called martyrs to anything. That seemed self-evident, but George had no way of knowing if any other man had ever reasoned out the same conclusion. Maybe he was unique because of his immunity to the compound. He was sure that very few men -- possibly none -- had reached marriage age with their immunity still undiscovered. George was lucky, in a way: he knew the truth about himself when he was seven, and he had time to adjust to it -- to plan the role he had been acting for the past twelve years. His early childhood had been a livid nightmare, primarily because of the precocious cruelty of his two sisters. Shortly before his seventh birthday they forced him to take part in a game they called cocktail party. The game involved only one activity: the two little girls filled a glass with an unidentified liquid, and ordered George to drink. Afterward, dancing up and down in girlish glee, they said they had given him the compound. George had seen the love stories on television; he knew how he was expected to act. He gave a good performance -- better than his sisters realized, for inside his mind George was in turmoil. They had given him the compound (true, years before he should have taken it), and nothing had happened. He had felt absolutely nothing; he was immune ! If anyone had ever found out, George would have been given a life sentence to the national hero's corps; or, more probably, the Morals Squad would have disposed of him altogether. From that day on, George lived with guilt and fear. As the years passed, he several times stole capsules of the compound from his mother's love-cabinet and gulped them down. Sometimes he felt a little giddy, and once he was sick. But he experienced no reaction which could possibly be defined as love. Not that he had any idea what that reaction should have been, but he knew he was supposed to feel very wicked and he never did. Each failure increased the agony of guilt; George drove himself to be far better behaved than he was required to be. He dreaded making one mistake. If his mother or a Director examined it too closely, they might find out his real secret. George's basic education began when he was assigned to his confinement room above the garage after his tenth birthday. Thereafter his time was thoroughly regulated by law. Three hours a day he watched television; three hours he spent in his gym, building a magnificent -- and salable -- body ; for four hours he listened to the educational tapes. Arithmetic, economics, salemanship, business techniques, accounting, mechanics, practical science : the things he had to know in order to earn a satisfactory living for the woman who bought him in marriage. He learned nothing else and as he grew older he became very conscious of the gaps in his education. For instance, what of the past? Had the world always been this sham he lived in? That question he had the good sense not to ask. But George had learned enough from his lessons in practical science to guess what the compound really was, what it had to be: a mixture of aphrodisiacs and a habit-forming drug. The compound was calculated to stir up a man's desire to the point where he would give up anything in order to satisfy it. Boys were given increased doses during their adolescence; by the time they married, they were addicts, unable to leave the compound alone. George couldn't prove his conclusion. He had no idea how many other men had followed the same line of reasoning and come up with the same answer. But why was George immune? There was only one way he could figure it: it must have happened because his sisters gave him the first draft when he was seven. But logically that didn't make much sense. Bachelors were another sort of enemy : men who shirked their duty and deserted their wives. It seemed unreasonable to believe a man could desert his wife, when first he had to break himself of addiction to the compound. George had always supposed that bachelor was a boogy word contrived to frighten growing children. As a consequence, he was very surprised when the house next door was raided. Through the window of his confinement cubicle, he actually saw the five gray-haired men who were rounded up by the Morals Squad. The Squad -- heavily armed, six-foot Amazons -- tried to question their captives. They used injections of a truth serum. Two of the old men died at once. The others went berserk, frothing at the mouth and screaming animal profanity until the Squad captain ordered them shot. George overheard one of the women say, "It's always like this. They take something so our serum can't be effective." Later that afternoon George found a scrap of paper in his mother's garden. It had blown out of the bonfire which the Morals Squad made of the papers they took out of the house next door. The burned page had apparently been part of an informational bulletin, compiled by the bachelors for distribution among themselves. "... data compiled from old publications," the fragment began, "and interpreted by our most reliable authorities." At that point a part of the page was burned away. "...and perhaps less than ninety years ago men and women lived in equality. The evidence on that point is entirely conclusive. The present matriarchy evolved by accident, not design. Ninety years ago entertainment and advertising were exclusively directed at satisfying a woman's whim. No product was sold without some sort of tie-in with women. Fiction, drama, television, motion pictures -- all glorified a romantic thing called love. In that same period business was in the process of taking over government from statesmen and politicians. Women, of course, were the stockholders who owned big business, although the directors and managers at that time were still men -- operating under the illusion Of IF, published bi-monthly at Buffalo, New York, for October #, #. #. The names and addresses of the publisher, editor, managing editor, and business managers are: Publisher , Quinn Publishing Company, Inc., # Pearl Street, Kingston, N. Y.; Editor, James L. Quinn, # Pearl Street, Kingston, N. Y.; Managing editor , None. Business manager , None. #. The owner is (if owned by a corporation, its name and address must be stated and also immediately thereunder the names and addresses of stockholders owning or holding I per cent or more of total amount of stock) : Quinn Publishing Company, Inc., # Pearl Street, Kingston, N. Y.; James L, Quinn, # Pearl Street, Kingston, N. Y. #. The known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders owning or holding I per cent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: None, #. The two paragraphs next above, giving the names of owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain not only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear upon the books of the company but also, in cases where the stockholders or security holder appears upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is given; also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing affiant's full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner; and this affiant has no reason to believe that any other person, association, or corporation has any interest direct or indirect in the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by him. #. The average number of copies of each issue of this publication sold or distributed, through the mails or otherwise, to paid subscribers during the # months preceding the date shown above was: (This information is required from daily, weekly, semiweekly, and triweekly newspapers only) . James L. Quinn, Editor. Sworn to and subscribed before me this #th day of September, #. that they were the executives who represented ownership. In effect, however, women owned the country and women governed it; suddenly the matriarchy existed. There is no evidence that it was imposed; there is no suggestion of civil strife or..." More words burned away. "However, the women were not unConsequently the popular cliches, the pretty romances, and the catchwords of advertising became a substitute for reality. As for the compound... There the fragment ended. Much of it George did not understand. But it gave him a great deal of courage simply to know the bachelors actually existed. He began to plan his own escape to a bachelor hideout. He would have no opportunity, no freedom of any sort, until he married. Every boy was rigidly isolated in his confinement cubicle, under the watchful eye of his mother's spy-cameras, until he was bought in his first marriage. Then, as he thought more about it, George realized there was a better way for him to use his immunity. He couldn't be sure of finding a bachelor hideout before the Morals Squad tracked him down. But George could force his bride to tell him where the compound was made, since he was not an addict and she could not use the compound to enslave him. Once he knew the location of the factory, he would destroy it. How, he wasn't sure; he didn't plan that far ahead. If the supply of the drug could be interrupted, many hundreds of men might be goaded into making a break for the hills. snapped to attention on the edge of his bunk. He saw his mother waving from the back door of her house. "I'll be down right away, Mummy." His mother was waiting for him in the pantry. Under the glaring overhead light he stopped for her last minute inspection. She used a pocket-stick to touch up a spot on his chest where the oil gleam had faded a little. And she gave him a glass of the compound to drink. "Jenny really wants to marry you, George," she confided. "I know the symptoms; half our battle's won for us. And my former husband won't be around to worry us with his aches and pains. I made the trade this afternoon." He followed her into the dining room where the cocktails were being served. Aside from the Harpers, George's mother had rented two handsome, muscular escorts for his sisters. In the confusion, George saw jenny Harper's mother stealthily lace his water glass with a dose of the compound. He suppressed a grin. Apparently she was anxious to complete the deal, too. George found it almost impossible to hold back hilarious laughter when Jenny herself shyly pressed a capsule of the compound into his hand and asked him to use it. Three full-size slugs of the drug! George wondered what would have happened if he hadn't been immune. Fortunately, he knew how to act the lusty, eager, drooling male which each of the women expected. The negotiations moved along without a hitch. George's mother held out for twenty-eight thousand shares, and got it. The only problem left was the date for the wedding, and Jenny settled that very quickly. "I want my man. Mom," she said, "and I want him now." Jenny always got what she wanted. When she and her mother left that evening, she held George's hand in hers and whispered earnestly, "So they were married and lived happily ever after. That's the way it's going to be with us, isn't it, George?" "It's up to you, Jenny; for as long as you want me." That was the conventional answer which he was expected to make, but he saw unmasked disappointment in her face. She wanted something more genuine, with more of himself in it. He felt suddenly sorry for her, for the way he was going to use her. She was a pretty girl, even sweet and innocent -- if those words still had any real meaning left after what his mother's world had done to them. Under other circumstances, George would have looked forward with keen pleasure to marrying Jenny. As it was, Jenny Harper was first a symbol of the fakery he intended to destroy, and after that a woman. Five days later they were married. In spite of the short engagement, Mrs. Harper and George's mother managed to put on a splendid show in the church. George received a business sedan from his mother, the traditional gift given every bridegroom; and from Mrs. Harper he received a good job in a company where she was the majority stockholder. And so, in the customary pageantry and ceremony, George became Mr. Harper. "Think of it -- Mr. Harper," Jenny sighed, clinging to his arm. "Now you're really mine, George." On the church steps the newlyweds posed for photographs -- George in the plain, white trunks which symbolized a first marriage; Jenny in a dazzling cloud of fluff, suggestively nearly transparent. Then Mrs. Harper drew Jenny aside and whispered in her daughter's ear: the traditional telling of the secret. Now Jenny knew where the compound was manufactured; and for George revenge was within his grasp. George's mother had arranged for their honeymoon at Memory Lodge, a resort not far from the Directorate capital in Hollywood. It was the national capital as well, though everyone conscientiously maintained the pretense that Washington, with an all-male Congress, still governed the country. George considered himself lucky that his mother had chosen Memory Lodge. He had already planned to dese'rt Jenny in the mountains. George knew how to drive; his mother had wanted him to do a great deal of chauffeuring for her. But he had never driven beyond town, and he had never driven anywhere alone. His mother gave him a map on which his route to the lodge was indicated in bright red. In the foothills George left the marked highway on a paved side road. He gambled that Jenny wouldn't immediately realize what he had done, and the gamble paid off. Still wearing her nearly transparent wedding gown, she pressed close to him and ran her hands constantly over his naked chest, thoroughly satisfied with the man she had bought. In the church George had been given a tall glass of the compound; he acted the part Jenny expected. But it was far less a role he played than George wanted to admit. His body sang with excitement. He found it very difficult to hold the excitement in check. If he had been addicted to the compound, it would have been out of the question. More than ever before he sympathized with the men who were enslaved by love. In spite of his own immunity, he nearly yielded to the sensuous appeal of her caress. He held the wheel so hard his knuckles went white ; he clenched his teeth until his jaw ached. All afternoon George drove aimless mountain roads, moving deeper into the uninhabited canyons. Carefully judging his distances with an eye on the map, he saw to it that he remained relatively close to the city; after he forced Jenny to give him the information he wanted, he wanted to be able to get out fast. By dusk the roads he drove were no longer paved. Ruts carved deep by spring rains suggested long disuse. The swaying of the car and the constant grinding of gears eventually jolted Jenny out of her romantic dreams. She moved away from George and sat looking at the pines which met above the road. "We're lost, aren't we?" she asked. "What's that?" he shouted to be heard above the roar of the motor. "Lost!" For a minute or two longer he continued to drive until he saw an open space under the trees. He pulled the car into the clearing and snapped off the ignition. Then he looked Jenny full in the face and answered her. "No, Jenny, we aren't lost; I know exactly what I'm doing." "Oh." He was sure she had understood him, but she said, "We can spend the night here and find the lodge in the morning. It's a pity we didn't bring something to eat." She smiled ingenuously. "But I brought the compound; and we have each other." They got out of the car. Jenny looked up at the sunset, dull red above the trees, and shivered; she asked George to build a fire. He tucked the ignition key into the band of his white trunks and began to gather dry boughs and pine needles from the floor of the forest. He found several large branches and carried them back to the clearing. There was enough wood to last until morning -- whether he stayed that long or not. Jenny had lugged the seats and a blanket out of the car and improvised a lean-to close to the fire. He piled on two of the larger branches and the bright glow of flame lit their faces. She beckoned to him and gave him a bottle of the compound, watching bright-eyed as he emptied it. With her lips parted, she waited. He did nothing. Slowly the light died in her eyes. Like a savage she flung herself into his arms. He steeled himself to show absolutely no reaction and finally she drew away. Trembling and with tears in her eyes, she whispered, "The compound doesn't -- " The look of pain in her eyes turned to terror. "You're immune!" "Now you know." "But who told you -- " She searched his face, shaking her head. "You don't know, do you -- not really?" "Know what?" Instead of replying, she asked, "You brought me here deliberately, didn't you?" "So we wouldn't be interrupted. You see, Jenny, you're going to tell me where the compound's made." "It wouldn't do you any good. Don't you see -- " He closed his hands on her wrists and jerked her rudely to her feet. He saw her face go white. And no wonder: that magnificent, granite hard body, which she had bought in good faith for her own pleasure, was suddenly out of her control. He grinned. He crushed her mouth against his and kissed her. Limp in his arms, she clung to him and said in a choked, husky whisper, "I love you, George." "And you'll make any sacrifice for love," he replied, mocking the dialogue of the television love stories. "Yes, anything!" "Then tell me where the compound's manufactured." "Hold me close, George; never let me go." How many times had he heard that particular line! It sickened him, hearing it now from Jenny ; he had expected something better of her. He pushed her from him. By accident his fist raked her face. She fell back blood trickling from her mouth. In her eyes he saw shock and a vague sense of pain ; but both were overridden by adoration. She was like a whipped puppy, ready to lick his hand. "I'll tell you, George," she whispered. "But don't leave me." She pulled herself to her feet and stood beside him, reaching for his hand. "We make it in Hollywood, in the Directorate Building, the part that used to be a sound stage." "Thanks, Jenny." He picked up one of the car seats and walked back to the sedan. She stood motionless watching him. He fitted the seat in place and put the key in the lock. The starter ground away, but the motor did not turn over. He glanced back at Jenny. She was smiling inscrutably, "You see, George, you have to stay with me." He got out of the car and moved toward her. "I was afraid you were planning to desert me," she went on, "so I took out the distributor cap while you were getting the firewood." He stood in front of her. Coldly he demanded, "Where did you put it, Jenny?" She tilted her lips toward his. "Kiss and tell -- maybe." "I haven't time for games. Where is it?" His fist shot out. Jenny sprawled on the ground at his feet. Again he saw the pain and the adoration in her face. But that couldn't be right. She would hate him by this time. He yanked her to her feet. Her lips were still bleeding and blood came now from a wound in her cheek. Yet she managed to smile again. "I don't want to hurt you, Jenny," he told her. "But I have to have -- " "I love you, George. I never thought I'd want to give myself to a man. All the buying doesn't make any difference, does it? Not really. And I never knew that before!" With an unconscious movement, she kicked her train aside and he saw the distributor cap lying beneath it. He picked it up. She flung herself at him screaming. He felt the hammer beat of her heart; her fingers dug into his back like cat claws. Now it didn't matter. He had the secret; he could go whenever he wanted to. Nonetheless he pushed her away -- tenderly, and with regret. To surrender like this was no better than a capitulation to the compound. It was instinctively important to make her understand that. He knew that much, but his emotions were churned too close to fever pitch for him to reason out what else that implied. He clipped her neatly on the jaw and put her unconscious body on the ground by the fire. He left the map with her so she could find her way out in the morning; he knew it was really a very short hike to a highway, where she would be picked up by a passing car or truck. He drove out the way he had come in -- at least he tried to remember. Four times he took a wrong turn and had to backtrack. It was, therefore, dawn before he reached the outskirts of Hollywood. In any other city he would not have been conspicuous -- simply a man on his way to work ; only women slept late. However, Hollywood was off-limits to every male. The city was not only the seat of the Directorate, but the manufacturing center for the cosmetics industry. And since that gave women her charm, it was a business no man worked at. George had to have a disguise. He stopped on a residential street, where the people were still likely to be in their beds. He read names on mail boxes until he found a house where an unmarried woman lived. He had no way of knowing if she had a husband on approval with her, but the box was marked "Miss." With any luck he might have got what he wanted without disturbing her, but the woman was a light sleeper and she caught him as he was putting on the dress. He was sorry he had to slug her, but she gave him no resistance. A spark of hope, a spark of long-forgotten youth glowed in her eyes; before she slid into unconsciousness. Wearing the stolen dress, which fit him like a tent, and an enormous hat to hide his face, George parked his sedan near the Directorate and entered the building when it opened at eight. In room after room automatons demonstrated how to dress correctly ; robot faces displayed the uses of cosmetics. There were displays of kitchen gadgets, appliances, and other heavy machinery for the home; recorded lectures on stock management and market control. Here women came from every part of the country for advice, help and guidance. Here the Top Directors met to plan business policy, to govern the nation, and to supervise the production of the compound. For only the Top Directors -- less than a dozen women -- actually knew the formula. Like their stockholdings, the secret was hereditary, passed from mother to daughter. George searched every floor of the building, but found nothing except exhibit rooms. Time passed, and still he did not find what he had come for. More and more women crowded in to see the exhibits. Several times he found newcomers examining him oddly; he found he had to avoid the crowds. Eventually he went down steps into the basement, though a door marked "Keep Out." The door was neither locked nor guarded, but there was a remote chance it might lead to the production center for the compound. In the basement George found a mechanical operation underway; at first he took it for another cosmetic exhibit. Conveyor belts delivered barrels of flavoring syrup, alcohol and a widely advertised liquid vitamin compound. Machines sliced open the containers, dumping the contents into huge vats, from which pipes emptied the mixture into passing rows of bottles. The bottles : suddenly George recognized them and the truth dawned on him, sickeningly. Here was the manufacturing center for the compound -- but it might just as well have been a barn in Connecticut or a store window in Manhattan. No man was enslaved by the compound, for the compound did not exist. He was imprisoned by his own sense of guilt, his own fear of being different. George remembered his own fear and guilt; he knew how much a man could be driven to make himself conform to what he thought other men were like. His revenge was as foolish as the sham he wanted to destroy. He should have reasoned that out long ago; he should have realized it was impossible to have immunity to an addictive drug. But, no, George believed what he saw on the television programs. He was victimized as much as any man had ever been. He turned blindly toward the stairway, and from the shadows in the hall the Morals Squad closed in around him. With a final gesture of defiance, he ripped off the stolen dress and the absurd hat, and stood waiting for the blast from their guns. An old woman, wearing the shoulder insignia of a Top Director, pushed through the squad and faced him, a revolver in her hand. She was neither angry nor disturbed. Her voice, when she spoke, was filled with pity. Pity! That was the final indignity. "Now you know the truth," she said. "A few men always have to try it; and we usually let them see this room and find out for themselves before -- before we close the case." Tensely he demanded, "Just how much longer do you think -- " "We can get away with thus? As iong as men are human beings. It's easier to make yourself believe a lie if you think everyone else believes it, than to believe a truth you've found out on your own. All of us want more than anything else to be like other people. Women have created a world for you with television programs; you grow up observing nothing else; you make yourself fit into the pattern. Only a few independent-minded characters have the courage to accept their own immunity; most of them end up here, trying to do something noble for the rest of mankind. But you have one satisfaction, for what it's worth: you've been true to yourself." True to yourself. George found a strange comfort in the words, and his fear was gone. He squared his shoulders and faced the mouth of her gun. T rue to yourself : that was something worth dying for. He saw a flicker of emotion in the old woman's eyes. Admiration? He couldn't be sure. For at the moment a shot rang out from the end of the corridor; and the Top Director fell back, nursing a hand suddenly bright with blood. "Let him go." It was Jenny's voice. She was sheltered by a partly open door at the foot of the stairway. "Don't be a fool," the old woman replied. "He's seen too much." "It doesn't matter. Who would believe him?" "You're upset. You don't realize -- " "He's mine and I want him." "The Directorate will give you a refund of the purchase price." "You didn't understand me. I don't want one of your pretty automatons; anybody can buy them for a few shares of stock. I want a man -- a real man; I want to belong to him." "He belongs to you; you bought him." "And that's what's wrong. We really belong to each other." The old woman glanced at George and he saw the same flicker of feeling in her eyes. And tears, tears of regret. Why? "We have you outnumbered," the old woman said quietly to Jenny. "I don't care. I have a gun; I'll use it as long as I'm able." The Morals Squad raised their weapons. The Director shook her head imperiously and they snapped to attention again. "If you take him from us," she called out to Jenny, "you'll be outlawed. We'll hunt you down, if we can." "I want him," Jenny persisted. "I don't care about the rest of it." The old woman nodded to George. He couldn't believe that she meant it. The Director was on her home ground, in her headquarters building, backed by an armed squad of stone-faced Amazons. She had no reason to let him gShe walked beside him as he moved down the hall. When they were twenty feet from the guard, she closed her thin hand on his arm; her eyes swam with tears and she whispered, "There truly is a love potion. Not this nonsense we bottle here, but something real and very worthwhile. You and this girl have found it. I know that, from the way she talks. She doesn't say anything about ownership, and that's as it should be. As it has to be, for any of us to be happy. Hold tight to that all the rest of your life. Don't ever believe in words; don't fall for any more love stories; believe what you feel deep inside -- what you know yourself to be true. "You men who learn how to break away are our only hope, too. Most of us don't see that yet. I do; I know what it used to be like. Someday there may be enough men with the stamina to take back the place of dominance that we stole from them. We thought we wanted it; for decades before we had been screaming about women's rights." Her thin lips twisted in a sneer and she spat her disgust. "Finally we took what we wanted, and it turned to ashes in our hands. We made our men playthings; we made them slaves. And after that they weren't men any more. But what we stole isn't the sort of thing you can hand back on a silver platter; you men have to get enough courage to take it away from us." Her grip tightened on his arm. "There's a fire door at the end of the hall; if you push the emergency button, you'll close it. That will give you a five or ten minute start. I can't help you any more... They were abreast of Jenny. She seized Jenny's hand and thrust it into his. "Beat it, kids; there's a bachelor camp on the north ridge. You can make it. "And from here on in, what he says goes," the old woman added. "Don't forget that." "She won't," George answered, supremely self-assured. He took Jenny's arm and, turning abruptly, they made their break for freedom. The Director managed to remain standing in the middle of the corridor, making a dangerous target of herself so that none of the Morals Squad could risk a shot at the fugitives. As the fire door clanged shut George looked back. He saw the old woman's lips moving in silent prayer.    A I # Calendar designed specifically for Science Fiction Fans and Space Flight Enthusiasts. Each month takes you on an expedition to one of the planets or moons of the Solar System, from Sun-baked Mercury to Frigid Pluto.  # two-color illustrations  Scientifically accurate text with each illustration  Wonderful for your den  Printed in limited edition  Only I .# postpaid order  P. #. Box#-E Endorsed by The Society for the ' Advancement of Space Travel i I I ( Continued from page # ) Otto) Binder, Dr. Keller, Hugo Gemsback, Ray Cummings et al. In retrospect Russell was amused at how the year # had once held such a fatal fascination for him as a far distant year of mystery, glamor, excitement; when robots would be walking the streets, the TransAtlantic Tunnel would be a reality, and stratorockets would ply the transpolar route, # minutes from New York to London. I must confess that #I years ago, when I attended the first meeting of the Los Angeles Science Fantasy Society (then chapter ## of the S.F. League), I scarcely thought that I'd be attending most of the nearly # meetings thru the years to come and be Master of Ceremonies (shy guy and tongue-tied introverted youth that I was in those days) at the Adult Anniversary meeting. But the Hallowe'en organization in existence -- was its #st birthday, and I'm sure I'll be at the #th meeting and the quarter century mark as well. A salute to my pal Russ Flodgkins, Australian-born fan who's the only other charter member of the club who's a "survivor" to today. And the Anniversary meeting itself was hung out. Mark Clifton, Ed Clinton, Kris Neville, Mel Sturgis, Arthur J. and Wm. D. Cox, Henry Lee and Frank Quattrocchi were among the pro's present as Directrix Helen Urban, herself a selling sci-fi writer, banged the oaken gavel to call the memorable meeting together. A large number of congratulatory telegrams were received from around the world, (Jules Verne's Navy, that is). " Congratulations on #st Anniversary. I predict club meetings in future will take place regularly each week-day evening falling between Wednesday and Friday. -- Nostra Damus." Signed Sincerely Yours, countered a more loyal, kind, considerate; well-behaved, intelligent, morally straight and physically strong group , and my keeper says it's time for my electric shock treatment now. -- Robespierre Bloch." France: Jules Verne's "From the Earth to the Moon" to be filmed. Italy: #th issue of beautiful bi weekly sci-fi magazine, Urania, published. original scientifilm script by Frank Quattrocchi, to be produced here in widescreen and technicolor. That's All, Folks. -- fja What Is Your Science I. Q.? make sure you catch on the next time the hero is a "down to earth" scientist, test yourself on this quiz. Count # for each correct answer. A score of # is excellent! Answers on page #. I . The best conductor of electricity among the metals is . #. What is another name for a magnetic resonance accelerator? #. The lighter a gas the more it diffuses. #. Who originated the theory of probability? #. A positron is a particle having the same mass and magnitude of charge as . #. What is the term used to describe the changing of the speed of a reaction brought about by the introduction of a contact agent? #. The density of sea water is proportional to its temperature and increases with salinity. #. How many calories of heat are required for ice to change each gram of water at its melting point? #. # foot-pounds of work per minute are equal to -- horsepower. #. What term is used to describe the form of reproduction in which a female cell reproduces without fertilization by a male cell? #. Bottom waters of the ocean in all latitudes approach degrees Fahrenheit. #. In which direction do light waves vibrate in relation to the direction in which they are traveling? #. Standard pressure for scientific observations is established at pounds per square inch. #. Which color of the spectrum has the shortest wave length? #. Deuterium is a form of heavy . #. How many B.T.U.'s of heat are required to raise the temperature of one pound of water one degree? #. The velocity of sound increases about feet per second with every centigrade degree rise in the temperature of the air. #. Which element is used as the unit of comparison for deciding the valence numbers? #. Radiosondes are used in the study of meteorology. #. A Fahrenheit degree is equal to of a centigrade degree. (Continued from page #) flicker that would give a split-second warning of her next move. The warning came, and he was ahead of it. His shot struck Ann high on the right shoulder. Her second and last bullet ploughed into the dust midway between them. She twisted around from the force of the impact, and half slipped, half fell from the pedestal. But she kept herself erect, bracing against the pedestal with her left hand. A red blotch was spreading from her shoulder to her breast and down her side. There was shock and pain in her eyes, but the half-smile was still on her lips. "Une!" shouted the crowd, counting his first shot. Jacques no longer needed a will of his own. The momentum of a thousand deaths swept him along, overpowering everything else. "Deux!" screamed the hundred thousand voices. "Deux! Deux!" His second shot struck Ann well below the left shoulder, knocking her away from the support of the pedestal, sprawling her in the dust. Yet so indomitable was her will that she brought her hands together and raised herself to her knees. Her entire upper body was covered with dust and spreading fingers of crimson. "Trois!" shrieked the maddened crowd. "Trois! Trois!" Women tore away pieces of their clothing and waved them with savage abandon. "Trois! Trois! Trois!" The third shot could barely be heard. Ann was lifted from her knees and hurled backwards. She rolled over twice, then lay face downward, her fingers digging in the hard earth. With his last shot, the fierceness drained out of Jacques. He blinked like a man awakening from a horrible dream. He stared at Ann's shuddering body, not believing he could have done this. He cried out to her, and ran to her side with great, lunging steps. His body shook with dry sobs. He turned her over tenderly, smoothed back the tangled hair from her forehead, tried to wipe some of the dirt and bubbles of red from her lips. them with a microphone. With one terrible look, Jacques sent him scurrying back. "Ann... Ann..." he cried. "What have I done?" Her glazing, pain-filled eyes cleared for a moment, and drew him closer. In them, for all the pain, there was peace at last. No reproach, no disappointment. Only peace. And he knew then, what he should always have known: That when a man lived as one with Death, he could not give less to any person, nor expect more. Ann's fingers crawled through the dust and touched the toe of his boot. Her quivering lips twisted in a final grimace of ecstacy. And out of the lonely void of the dying came the words he had always hoped to hear, and would never hear again: "Good night," she whispered. "You -- were wonderful -- my lover -- my husband."    Dream cars of the future will have practically trouble-free motors. Experiments have proved that gas turbine engines are simpler and more rugged and will burn almost any liquid fuel including kerosene and cheap diesel oil. The new motor, which operates on the pinwheel principle, is inherently simple, with none of the clutch and shift jerks felt even in modern cars with automatic transmissions. The engine has few parts, only one of which requires workmanship to close tolerances. The only real moving part is the turbine, an efficient fan that converts jet blasts to turning motion. It is easy to take apart and put together and packs more power per pound of engine than the piston engine of today. Even telegraph operators can be replaced by machines. An electronic device is now ready that can translate international Morse code signals from radio beeps into typed copy. The robot radioman can handle signals produced by hand or machine keying and overcomes a major problem by automatically adjusting itself to different speeds of transmission. It can even compensate for the sender's change of pace within a single message. A new solar cooker folds up like an umbrella for carrying, but inverted in the sun it becomes so effective in concentrating the sun's heat that hot dogs can be roasted at the "handle" heat focus. The fabric of the cooker is a special reflecting plastic. Picnickers of tomorrow will be able to carry the cooker with them on a sunny day and prepare lunch without fuel or flame. Pilots in Australia are being trained to fly planes that catch falling parachute-borne rockets in midair. When the rockets begin to fall, a parachute opens. A plane with a #-foot paravane trailing slightly to one side then flies alongside the falling missile, and grapnels on the paravene cable grip on a cable trailing from the parachute. The "catch" is played like a fish on the line and the plane flies down a gully spanned by cables so that the rocket is transferred from the paravane to a cable, where it swings until collected. Antibiotic-burgers may be on the menu at the local diner soon. The presence of small amounts of aureomycin will keep hamburger meat from spoiling several days longer than meat kept under refrigeration. Experimenters have found that as little as ten parts of the antibiotic keeps the meat in good condition for at least ten days. The process is not yet commercially usable since the effects of the aureomycin on humans eating the meat has not yet been thoroughly studied. Evidence that the anti-proton actually exists was recently announced by the A.E.C. The negatively charged particle was created in the bevatron at the University of California, Berkeley. There is no known "practical" application of the anti-proton discovery; but it does verify the electrical charge symmetry of nature -- for each known charged particle there is a particle of equal mass with opposite charge. A new era of nuclear research, rivaling that which led to the atomic bomb, is foreseen as a result of this anti-proton creation. An aerial uranium detector designed for one-man pilot prospectors has been developed. The #pound scintillation counter has an automatic alarm that signals the pilot whenever an anomaly is passed. The counter can also be provided with a strip chart pen recorder and two indicating meters. Air "traffic cops" will need more and more radar to keep up with the mammoth air jam envisioned in the next ten years. The Civil Aeronautics Commission has a tenyear program set up to loosen the jam. This includes a secondary radar beacon system with an airborne device that returns signals so strong they can penetrate rain and fog. More important, the device returns a coded impulse for positive indentification of the plane. The new set up should be ready for installation early in #. Trackless wastelands will be broad highways for a new truck-train with huge balloon-like tires. The cross country carrier can crisscross the deserts, glide through jungles and roll over arctic snow without bogging down. Cars in the train are connected mechanically by a steering arrangement that makes every car follow the tracks of the lead truck. The train can climb steeper inclines than an auto and can. roll smoothly over stumps and ditches. Tires on the cars range up to ten feet in height. An automatic "seek-and-kill" system for submarine torpedoes that uses transistors instead of the conventional vacuum tubes has been developed. The new guided torpedo system eliminates the need for a thirty-second warm-up period before firing, uses less current and is more compact. Developed by Westinghouse Laboratories, the torpedo guides itself toward the enemy target by means of ultrasonic sound waves in the water. The establishment of the first civilian skin bank was announced recently. This followed on the heels of the development of a new technique for grafting the skin from recently dead bodies as a life-saving measure for persons with severe and extensive burns. When stored at ordinary refrigerator temperatures these post-mortem grafts can be used as long as three weeks after removal. The added factor of being able to use larger and larger patches with success has practically eliminated the need for live donors. Sir: Your World's Champion is a fraud, if we judge by # standards. Looky there, brass knuckles, wrist spikes and a bikini boxing outfit... and not a scar! Max Factor and Perc Westmore should live so long... or do such a cover up job. I can only conclude that their # equivalents have never been near her. I am also forced to conclude that this is her first, last and only defense of her championship, she having originally won it by sending in write-in votes on Krispy-Krunchy boxtops. She's an ad agency promotion discovered by a talent scout while sitting on a drugstore stool in Cornpone, Ky. The annual contest ended last week at Atlantic City and oil wells were awarded to runners up. Sales of Krispy Krunchies have quadrupled. The Champion will defend her title against a specially designed robot made by the Azimov Positronic Robot Foundry. She will win by a knockout after # seconds of the #th round when the robot responds to an electronic impulse and collapses to the canvas in a welter of slipped gears and worn condensers. She will be awarded a size # champion's belt, which will later be displayed on # nationally televised coast-to-coast spectaculars. Her retirement will consist of # weeks at the Palace Theater, a # year recording contract, a shortterm movie contract and a # week contract with T.V. awarding the mink coats on giveaway programs. She will marry a man three times her age, cheat him of his longevity shots, and buy a planet of the Vega system as a gilt-edged investment. -- Bob Pilkington Louisville, Ky. Dear Editor: I am impressed and intrigued by the lack of intelligence in the faces on your cover... I see this as a symbol of a time when Man has forgotten the basic laws for civilized existence, a world declining, retrogressing, without love and with too much leisure; an irreligious, heartless, deadly, insensible world moving backward in terms of intelligence and callous far beyond the point of brutality. If we make the assumption that a regime such as that of the communists has overrun the earth, subjugating man and bringing intellectual chaos, then the cover is more than possible. -- Mervin Chapman Key West, Fla. The writers of the two preceding letters were awarded # each for their thoughts on our December cover. Three other awards went to Orma McCormick of Ferndale, Mich., John Murphy of Jersey City, New Jersey, and J. Frank Gamble of Littleton, Colorado... Comments on the gal with the brass knucks were varied and interesting indeed and we wish we had room to run more of them. Dear Sir: I flatly think that sexy covers are the reason that s-f isn't skyrocketing to greater popularity. When the average individual throws his #c on the counter he undoubtedly has an urge to hide the covers. You have a readable magazine and I give science-fiction the credit for my choosing Physics as my college major. My only complaint is those covers. Can't s-f editors be a little subtle -- the drawings usually scream of poor taste. -- W. G. Cantrell Bryan, Texas Sirs: Interstellar colonization seems to be the most hopeful subject for the s-f readers of today, yet authors always assume that other races will be either so far ahead of us that they are dead or so far behind us that we will have to "civilize" them. I agree that the chances of another exactly at our own level is a probability that's astronomical considering the differences in time, temperature, physiology etc. that are involved. Considering the former highly civilized group, why haven't we met them yet? They must have passed through the exploratory stage somewhere along the line. We've argued the point pro and con and come up with several proposed explanations. #. The supermen are here, but so smart we haven't found any traces. #. Habitable planets are so rare they can't find each other. #. Interstellar travel is so difficult that races are confined to a few light-years from their home planet. #. The extermination theory: the cultural level necessary for star travel makes race suicide inevitable. What I'm after is an answer from your readers who I'm sure have given it a deal of thought themselves. Or at least an estimated percentage of how many numbers of readers believe which theory would be of interest to all s-f fans. Would you let the readers use the letter column for a sounding board? -- J. G. Hickman Park Forest, #. Delighted! We'll go a step farther and propound a fifth explanation: Could it be that we really are the first and most highly civilized race? Dear Editor: IF was my ideal, unfortunately this state of affairs was not to last. "Hue and Cry" has reared its ugly head. A trespasser from the pulp field. You were original with "What's Your Science I.Q.?", "Science Briefs" and "Worth Citing", so why retrogress? I'm convinced that a number of those in favor of letter columns are more interested in getting their names in print than in constructive criticism. Apart from "Hue and Cry" keep it as is -- it's great. -- W. J. Allen Calgary, Alberta We hate to disagree and don't feel that we publish the "pulpy" sort of letter. If we can have good arguments and slices of interesting ideas , we enjoy the stimulation. I hereby appoint " Hue and Cry" the sounding board for this controversy, in the hopes that a solution will be found. Sirs: Perhaps someday we can build machines that have all the functions of a human; would these machines be competitors of ours? Should we scrap all machines now lest we become their slaves? I don't think so. It may be paradoxical, but the more we understand about machine thinking, the more we understand about human thinking. With a greater understanding of ourselves, we can ensure that the role of the machine is a beneficent one. I have a deep conviction that a vastly humbled and chastened -- but improved! -- humanity will result from the effort to teach a machine what Man believes. The tough part will be that Man will have to find out exactly what he believes -- and make sense out of it. -- K. L. Hamilton Walton, Mass. Wouldn't you like to stick around a few thousand years and find out? It's a new approach: instead of the computers solving the problems -- they will force man to solve them himself. Dear Mr. Quinn: Although a reader of s-f for about # years, I've never felt the urge to write to an editor before now. What did it? Jerry Bixby's Laboratory, that's what. The relatively few attempts at humor in s-f have made me glad that they were few they have been of such low quality. In my opinion Laboratory is far and away the best piece of humorous s-f I've read. I also enjoyed the other yarns. -- George Thome Detroit, Mich. # fantasy and sciencefiction books and backissue magazines at # to # under what they've cost you before, here or anywhere, while they last! Shannon Rd., R.D. #, Box #K Verona, Pennsylvania (Continued from, page #) Gethsemane through the trees. It was blood-red in the morning sunlight. "Ten seconds -- " There wasn't going to be time enough to save Linda from the backwash, but there was time enough to try -- "Five seconds -- " No, not even time enough to try. "Two seconds -- " Brett breasted the hill just as the Gethsemane blasted. He reeled back, blinded by the jets, deafened by their thunder. When the afterimage faded he saw the brief morning star in the sky and he felt the first tearing pangs of his loss. "How did you know I'd be here?" Linda said. Brett turned around, not believing at first. She had just stepped from a sheltering stand of locusts. She was crying. "I saw you on the telecast," he said. "I thought -- " She shook her head. "You can't fight anything by running away from it," she said. "One useless sacrifice is enough." She swayed and Brett leaped forward and caught her arm. "I'm all right," she said. She looked into his eyes and seemed surprised at what she saw there. "I thought you'd hate me," she said. "I can't hate you," Brett said. "You can't hate someone when you already love them." She looked up at the sky. "I'll get him back," she said. "Somehow, some way. Will you help me?" "Of course I'll help you." They walked down the hill together. When they reached the highway the Seneca was burning brightly. Linda gasped. Brett took a slow deep breath. It was the most beautiful fire he had ever seen. A long time ago Thoreau said: "We do not ride the railroad; it rides upon us." It remained for the wife of an unemployed steelworker to paraphrase that statement. In her best-selling social novel, The Highways of Hell ( Brandt  Payne, #), Linda Dalms Brett wrote: "We do not drive our cars; our cars drive us." Civilizations decay from within. Sometimes the decay goes unnoticed for years, manifesting itself only through reactions of the subconscious. But it is there, weakening the social structure to a point where the slightest impetus can send that structure toppling. The Highways of Hell afforded that impetus, and the sacred automobile fell from its pedestal. It became a mere vehicle again, with a tyrannical governor that said # mph and meant it. As a mere vehicle it could not of course justify the stern laws enacted to protect it in its former glory, and consequently those laws were modified. This resulted in amnesty for some tens of thousands of prisoners serving sentences on the Foundation planets, among them a man who once believed himself to be Christ... -- Bethe Royale continued from Back Cover fiction Club's Biggest Bargain Offer N OW, for the first time, on this big Sci(see description on other side) -- PLi S any Fiction described on this page for only #I (Worth Up to # Retail) I of these story-packed Each is packed with rocket-swift stories that take you soaring in time and space... written by the greatest science-fiction writers. A # value, full-length, full-size, in haudsoiue permanent bindings -- and all yours for only I on this amazing offer l A story about the first Atomb... written before it was invented! Plus a score of other host tales from Astounding Science-Fiction magazine by editor John W. Campbell, Jr. (Publ. ed. #.) W orl d renowned stories by IT. G. Wells, Jules Verne, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, Aldous Huxley. Philip Wylie, Edgar Allan Poe. etc. # pp. (Publ. ed. #.) #I remarkable and fantastic tales about some of the most awe-inspiring, charming and monstrous children imaginable. (Publ. ed. #.) Edited by Frederik Pohl -- The story of the space monster who when killed -- could continue to live in an earth man's #.) Round-Trip Reservations To The Moon. (See Other Side.) Two books are your gift for joining, and one is your first Club selection. Every month, you will be offered the "cream" of the new # and # ScienceFiction books -- for only #. You take only those books you really want -- as few as four a year. This offer may Dept. IF-#, Garden City, N. Y. # top-stories of startling inventions... of visitors from Outer Space...of Far Traveling... # pages. (Publ. ed. #.) new #th Series. The story of the synthetic man who could do feats no huPlus #I other 'gems." (Publ. ed. #.) I Dept. IF-#, Garden City, N. Y. H Rush # books chocked below, as my gift books and first I selection. Rill me only I (plus shipping charge), and en Reservations. Every month send the Club's free bulletin. so that I may decide whether I wish to receive the coming I selection. For each book I accept. I will pay only I plus I shipping. I need take only # books during each year I am a I mem her -- and may resign at any time after accepting # selections.  # days, pay nothing and this membership will be cancelled. I  Assignment in Tomorrow  Children of Wonder I D Astounding Anthology  Omnibus  Best from Fantasy  S-F  Treasury of SF Classics Selection price in Canada # plus shipping Address Science-Fiction Club. # Bond Street. Toronto # (Offer good only in U. S. and Canada ) Now! In Response to the Overwhelming Demand -ni is ( crriifr rbil Rocket-Ship Schedule ' TM Ufr of Your Space-Pioneer Spirit -- to Share with an Adventurous Friend!  'ES, now for the first time we are bonafide Moon-Tour Reservations so that you may share this proof of your space-pioneer spirit with a friend! Each reservation certifies that you are among the first to apply for passage to the moon. Neither in any way com in its the holder to make the voyage. They simply signify that your name and the friend's name you submit are being held on file in Science-Fiction Book Club archives to be turned over to the first commercial company making trips to the moon. Your reservations include many amazing facts: your actual weight on the moon, a Rocket-Ship schedule, etc. Like your interest in Science-Fiction books, the hard-back, wallet-size certificate , will be evidence of your adventurous spirit... your imagination... your interest in the world of tomorrow. ing books described on the other side -- for only ?#. Then mail coupon and Moon-Tour Application at once ! louu jot ## Moon-Tour Reservations, Secretary Science-Fiction Book Club To-The-Moon Reservations. My Reservations which will he printed on handy, wallet-size cards, will include a Mfon weight chart and a complete Rocket-Ship Flight Schedule for the Moon, Venus. Mars, Jupiter, Saturn. I will in no way be committed to make a voyage. Please register both reservations in my name. Honored Unless Filled Out and Signed on the Reverse Side. For only #!  Eminent Men of Science Preview "Project Vanguard' Man's First Skirmish in the Conquest of Space ! One are mounted here in tandem for test firing prior to installation in the air frame. These motors are designed to yield three hundred thousand pounds of thrust to lift the three stage assembly. The test crew is stationed in a heavily armored vehicle downslope from the test stand to observe the firing. The vibration and roar created by these monster engines is inconceivable to anyone who has not witnessed such a firing. Men have been known to assume the foetal position, or lose control of their bodily functions, under its impact. (Now see inside back cover.) All Stories New and Complete i I  (First of Two Parts) I  Z by Charles L. Fontenay # I I Three-stage Satellite Rocket by Mel Hunter  IF is published bi-monthly by Quinn Publishing Company, Inc. Volume #, No. # Copyright # by Quinn Publishing Co., Inc. Office of publication, # Lord Street' Buffalo, New York. Entered as Second Class Matter at Post Office, Buffalo, New York. Subscription # for # issues in U.S. and Possessions; Canada # for # issues; elsewhere #. Allow four weeks for change of address. All stories appearing in this magazine are fiction; any similarity to actual persons is coincidental. Not responsible for unsolicited artwork or manuscripts. #c a copy. Printed in U.S.A. Next (August) issue on sale June #th  Editor's  doesn't know it?) science will embark on the most colossal probing of the mysteries of the universe the world has ever known. The occasion, of course, is the International Geophysical Year -- an #-months "year" which will last from July #, #, through December, #. During this time # nations will pool their scientific brains to prove a lot of things and to disprove a lot of other things. Weather, gravity, outer atmosphere, latitudes and longitudes, oceanography, earthquakes, glaciology and many other pertinent subjects will get close clinical scrutiny. It's going to be an exciting # months, not only for the science minded and the science fiction fan but for anyone who can read, write, see, feel, smell or hear. publishing a series of articles that may well turn out to be a world scoop on anticipating the design and functioning of the artificial satellite to be launched through "Operation Vanguard", pne of the United States' most prominent containly the most dramatic. Since the first announcement by President Eisenhower, there has been a bombardment of newspaper, radio and TV stories, but still the public has received only a vague, general idea of what this first (if Russia doesn't make good its boast) artificial satellite is actually going to be like. Being a top-secret project, this is only natural. And it's going to be a good while before anybody gets the Government's own story. However, we did the next best thing: we sought the calculated predictions of scientists who, though not connected with "Project Vanguard", are actively engaged in various phases of rocket development -- rocket design, propulsion, astrophysics, instrumentation and other phases of astronautics. They are men high in their fields -- and, we believe, what they present will be very, very close to the satellite of "Project Vanguard". The authors of the first two articles are James M. Nuding and Paul J. Vanous, who present a plan for constructing and launching the satellite vehicle, and the instrumentation and operation of the actual satellite after it reaches its orbit. search Engineer, Atomic Research Energy and Problems of Instrumentation, at North American Aviation. His rise to eminence has the flavor and color of a story by Horatio Alger. Born in Oakland, California, in #, he was orphaned at the age of ten. Through training received in technical classes in high school and night school, he was able to secure a license as a radio operator. His first job as a radio operator was aboard a four-masted barque bound for the Bering Sea. From "wind jammering" he went to the Coast Guard, where he served aboard a rum-runner in the same capacity. After leaving the Coast Guard he had a variety of jobs which included experimenting with X-ray, glass blowing for neon tubes, and work on high-voltage electrical systems. His first big step upward in the field of science was when he went to Stanford University to work on the Klystron Project, under the Varian brothers. (The klystron, incidentally, is a gadget that makes possible U.H.F. transmission.) A year later, he went to Sperry Gyro to work out commercial applications for the klystron. When the Sperry laboratories moved east, he went to the University of California, where he worked, under radarjamming device used in World War II. After a short tenure here he transferred to the #-inch cyclotron lab, becoming its chief of operations. In #, with the war at fever pitch, he was again transferred, this time to the Calutron Project, where he experimented with an electronic device for separating the U# isotope for use in the A-bomb. Within a year he was a supervisor and training head. In # he was sent to Oak Ridge and for three years he was engaged in work on process improvement of the Electromagnetic Separation Plant. He went to North American Aviation in # and has remained there since. James Nuding is a long time member and former president of the Pacific Rocket Society, an active group dedicated to the pursuit of astronautical research and the furtherance of space flight. Under the auspices of this organization, he became one of the pioneers in the actual designing, building and firing of many of the successful rockets which have roared into southern California skies. of #I years, is Microwave Senior Design Engineer, Missile Guidance Systems Division, at Bendix Aviation. A resident of Burbank, California, he holds a degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of California and a membership card in the Microwave Chapter of I.R.E. Much of his time is spent flying across the country on problems of component development. Mr. Vanous made the original designs and drawings from which the interior illustrations and June and August covers were adapted. about James Nuding and Paul Vanous. I wish we could run a more detailed story about each instead of this brief introduction. (Continued on page #) "Operation Vanguard", Man's first skirmish with outer space, What will the Satellite actually look like? How will it reach its orbit? What instruments will it carry and what will they tell us?... Here are the predictions of two eminent rocket men. Lead Research Engineer, Atomic Research Energy and Problems of Instrumentation , North American Aviation Microwave Senior Design Engineer, Missile Guidance Systems Division, Bendix Aviation might someday contrive to through Dr. Goddard's basement hoist himself by his own bootstraps window has been raised to the shatacross the last, and most formitering roar of today's rocket motors, dable of the great frontiers into producing horsepower measured in nation of writers, scientists and layamounts almost unimaginable a men for many generations. Out of few years ago has come into our these imaginations over the years, hands; and with it, the announcehave come ideas. From the many ment by the President of the Unitfields of science and engineering ed States that this nation will have come concepts and mechanpioneer in the exploration of the ical improvements, until at last space frontier by launching a temporary satellite into a predetermined orbital path around the Earth. This launching of an Earth Satellite Vehicle is perhaps the most exciting of all the projects planned for the International Geophysical Year #. The program, known as "Project Vanguard", can, if it is successful, contribute more to the science of the world in general than any other single project envisaged. The mere fact that the Satellite when launched must necessarily fly over all the countries of the world, will call for a mutual trust and cooperation between them which will be unprecedented. Coupled with this is the fact that such a Satellite will offer an unparalleled opportunity for science to study the physical phenomena surrounding the earth. During the past hundred years, Man, despite being earthbound, has made enormous strides toward understanding the universe. However, the limitations of not being able to mount his instruments above the heavy blanket of the atmosphere, has forced many of the problems to remain unsolved. With today's knowledge of rockets and instrumentation this need no longer be true. There appear to be four main objectives to be accomplished in "Project Vanguard", the first of which is the testing of the feasibilAt right are the dimensions of the three-stage Satellite rocket, the Satellite itself being the third stage. The "basketball" ' shape theory is exploded as impractical. The Satellite is here shown to be needle-shaped, # feet long and one foot in diameter. i ity of constructing a three stage Rocket-Satellite Vehicle and successfully establishing it in an orbit around the earth. Viewed from the standpoint of an astronautical enthusiast, the successful accomplishment of the first objective will justify the expense and effort of the whole project. However, since public funds are being spent in the financing of the program, other things must be accomplished to satisfy not only the general public, but also the scientists concerned with the Geophysical Year. The second objective is the instrumentation of the third stage so that once in orbit, information of interest to the I.G.Y. scientists can be collected by it and transmitted to strategically placed monitor stations on the ground. From the viewpoint of the scientists, the accomplishment of the second objective will be the main justification; the more diverse the information collected, the more priceless the Satellite's contribution to research. The knowledge gained by the second objective will be of vital importance in the accomplishment of the next step. This will be the planning of larger, more elaborate, and possibly manned satellites to be built in the future. The third objective, we feel, is probably of major interest to the military and, if pursued with the proper attitude, can be of inestimable value in the preservation of world peace. The fourth objective is of longer range and possibly of somewhat visionary character, although one which should not be dismissed because of the lack of immediacy. It is the. exploration of the hazards of space and the gaining of knowledge of space travel in general. Once a space vehicle has been manned, interplanetary exploration and travel will be the next logical step. It is well to point out at this time that the actual design specifications to be used in the satellite project will undoubtedly involve rockets and instrumentation which are part of the military security of the United States, and as such have already been classified as secret. But since the authors of this article have no connections with, or sources of information from, "Project Vanguard", it will be interesting to see how close an "educated guess" will bring us to what actually develops. W E feel that the "basket ball" nomenclature was an unfortunate choice. In the first place, it is very unlikely that the Satellite will look anything like a basket ball. The diameter of a basket ball is roughly twelve inches, and in order to put such a sphere into an orbit around the earth it must be carried there by a missile whose diameter must necessarily be somewhat larger. The missile must contain besides its propulsion system and guidance mechanism, a device for expulsion of the satellite. If this device is to Scale at right shows altitudes at which first and second stages . drop away  Nuding and Vanous predict that orbit eventually will be # miles above Earth's surface instead of # or # miles . add any appreciable velocity to that already attained from the carrier rocket, it will have to contain additional fuel in the form of an explosive charge. This explosive and the gun-like mechanism would be heavy, requiring many thousands of pounds of fuel in the first and second stages just to get it up there. Assuming that we have placed a "basket ball" in orbit, what of value, if anything, will we have? A little rough calculation will show that a sphere twelve inches in diameter can contain very little useful instrumentation. It is possible that it could hold a battery operated power supply and a small radio transmitter of sufficient strength to be heard back on earth. By no amount of miniaturization however, could we squeeze in much of anything else. Authorities on upper atmosphere research agree that a Satellite Vehicle placed in a stable orbit # miles up could probably stay there a year before it fell back to earth. If this is so, then obviously no battery would be sufficient to power the transmitter for that length of time. Also, if the Vehicle is going to be circling the earth for that period of time, common sense dictates that it should be so instrumented that full advantage be taken of its sojourn in space. It is true that some useful information other than the mechanics of getting up there, could be obtained from an uninstrumented Vehicle orbiting around die earth at a known altitude and velocity. Deviations in its orbital path as a function of geographical location would provide some clue to the deviations in the earth's magnetic field. Change in orbital velocity as a function of time and latitude would tell something about the density of the residual atmosphere through which the Satellite must travel as it slowly spirals its way back to earth. With the exception of these two bits of information, it is unlikely that anything of importance could be obtained from an uninstrumented vehicle. However, if the whole third stage of the rocket assembly is utilized, as it probably will be, the increased available volume and the great saving in weight will allow a much more elaborate instrumentation system to be put in orbit, with a correspondingly greater amount of useful information transmitted. The designing and building of a rocket combination which is capable of raising the Satellite Vehicle to an altitude of up to # miles, is in itself an engineering feat of major importance. It is true that the United States has already sent a two stage rocket (Bumper Project) up # miles; but one must remember that the second stage of Bumper was a relatively small rocket with a very small payload. This was launched vertically and arrived at its # mile altitude with zero velocity, whereupon it merely fell back to earth. In the case of the Satellite's second stage, it must, while carrying the relatively heavy third stage, arrive at or near the # mile goal in a fairly horizontal position and path. It must also at this time have achieved a large fraction of the # miles per hour horizontal velocity necessary to keep the satellite in orbit. To do this it is necessary that stage one and stage two larger than any single rocket that has ever flown up to this time and will most likely consist of two of the largest rocket motors built, mounted side by side. It will develop in the neighborhood of # pounds of dirust for a period in excess of one minute. It will be about # feet in diameter and approximately # feet high. Its total weight will be on the order of # pounds, # pounds of which will be liquid fuel and oxidizer. The fuel will be alcohol or some similar liquid and the oxident will be liquid oxygen. The propulsion system will be a modernized version of that used in the V# rockets, i.e. -- a steam or gas driven turbo-pump which draws the fuel and oxident from large storage tanks and forces them, at about # pounds per square inch pressure, through spray nozzles and combustion chambers where they combine and burn. The resultant hot gases, escaping through the motor nozzles, furnish the impulse which causes the assembly to rise. Stage one will carry in its upper end, just below the socket where stage two sits, an electronic "brain" which will take controlling impulses from the master "brain" located in stage three. These impulses will be amplified and fed to servo-mechanisms located in the tail which will in turn actuate the steering vanes on the fins and also carbon vanes in the jet stream, just below the rocket nozzles. These carbon vanes will stabilize the rocket during the period in take-off when tail fins are ineffective. Stage II may well be a Viking rocket or one similar in size and performance. The small tail fins used by the Viking could very well be left off in the case of the second stage. The motor mounted on a gimbal allows it to be swiveled in any direction, thus permitting the thrust from the jet to be used to steer the rocket after it has left the atmosphere -- where tail fins would have nothing to bear against. The apparently excessive size of Stage I and Stage II is necessitated by the fact that nearly all of the # mile altitude and the # mile per hour orbital velocity must be attained by the second stage so used for making orbital corrections in both position and velocity. Satellite itself, should be a rocket with the performance characteristics of the Aerobee and with a guidance system similar to that of the Wac Corporal. While it should resemble the system of the Wac Corporal, it will require a considerable amount of modification to fit it for use as a satellite. This would involve mounting the motor on gimbals, and the installation of hydrogen peroxide jets mounted laterally for making altitude and roll corrections. (Continued on page #) ) 'gpMA mwT. Time reversal exists at the sub-atomic level according to Feynman s Theory -- and according to that same theory any entity can exist in three places at one time... Does this explain the strange co-existence of Summer, Mark and Wyn? natural principle is behind the mysterious appearances recorded some years ago by Mr. Charles Fort, I'm sure I don't know. It could, of course, be the same as that behind the sudden appearance of Wyndham Storm in Central Park, but I don't believe I've heard of a case that exactly paralleled this one. I gather from a perusal of Mr. Fort's works that it is not uncommon for these unheralded visitors to come onstage without the formality of clothing; but I don't believe it's customary for them to bring their wives along, I got caught in a thunderstorm that night in Central Park -- not New York's Central Park, but Allertown's Central Park, which isn't as big. Having no raincoat -- the skies had appeared clear when I left home for the movies -- I took refuge in the big octagonal bandstand. The storm was brief, but spectacular; one of those violent affairs that often mark the arrival of a cold front to dispel an unusually intense midsummer heat wave. The rain slashed across the park in wind-whipped sheets, managing to drench me even in my shelter. Big trees bowed low and reluctantly hurled away leaves and limbs. Thunder rolled incessantly and the lightning made an eerie daylight of the blackness. Suddenly, there was a terrific clap of thunder and a fiery flash that blotted out everything around me. Shaken, I picked myself up from the floor of the bandstand, still not sure I hadn't been struck. Blue smoke was boiling away from a wrecked tree about thirty feet away, in the midst of a clump of charred, waving shrubbery. And like Venus rising from the foam the naked woman stepped out of the shrubbery, followed by the naked man. My first impulse was to laugh at these two whom the storm had chased from their hiding place and to be astonished at their brashness in disrobing completely in the heart of the park. Then it occurred to me that the lightning must have stripped them. They might be hurt. I jumped from the bandstand and walked swiftly over to them. To my utter amazement, the young woman promptly threw her arms around my neck and said : "Whatever has just happened, Don, I want you to know it's you I love." Then she kissed me. "What on earth!" I exclaimed, disengaging myself. The man was looking from one to the other of us, mutely. "I'm Summer Storm and this is my husband, Wyn Storm, and we live at # March Street," she said, all in a rush. "Oh, Don, I'm sorry you don't know us any more, but I should have known from the way Wyn was acting and everything that's going to happen..." "Wait a minute, wait a minute!" I interrupted. "I don't know you. How did you know my name?" She didn't answer, but just stood there, looking at me intently. I averted my eyes. I was beginning to recover from shock enough to be embarrassed. "How about this?" I asked the man. "Why should I know you, and where do you come from?" "I'm afraid I don't know," he replied, sounding perfectly honest about it. "I'm afraid I don't remember anything. Do you suppose I have amnesia?" "That's possible," I said. "But your wife seems not to be bothered with it. All right. Summer Storm and Wyn Storm it is -- but the names are too trite in these circumstances not to be false. Both of you had better get back in the shrubbery while I get some help." I found the policeman on the Main Street beat. As I thought, it was my old friend, Gus Adams. He accompanied me back to the park, the rain gleaming on his slicker. "They picked a good address to lie about," he said, when I had explained the situation to him on the way. "The house at # March Street is vacant." "They're probably spooners who got caught by that lightning bolt and are too ashamed to give their right names," I said. "If they had any clothes, I don't know what happened to them. I didn't see any in those bushes." "What do you figure I ought to do with them, Mr. Gracey?" he asked. "They look like decent youngsters," I said. "If it's all right with you, we'll take them out. to my house until they're ready to let me help them get back where they came from," "You're taking a chance," he grunted. But we wrapped the woman in his slicker and tied my best suit coat around the man's waist. Gus called the town's only patrol car and had them drive us out to my house. I suppose nudists and doctors eventually reach the point where they look on nakedness as normal. But, to me, my "orphans of the storm" looked a lot more like ,human beings when I had them clothed in a couple of my old sweaters and some slacks. They might have been twins. For all I knew, they were, in spite of Z the woman's claim that they were man and wife. Their eyes were an identical sky-blue, their hair an identical pale, wavy gold. Her hair was cut short, his needed cutting, so they were a good match. I judged their ages to be about #, although I've been over-estimating young women's ages since I passed #. "Now, suppose you tell me where you're from and what this is all about," I said sternly, when they had finished eating the meal I had rustled up for them. The man spread his hands and, for the first time, he smiled. It was the smile of an archangel. Whatever the failure of his memory, his smile was that of wisdom and patience. I was to find, not much later, that the woman's smile was its feminine counterpart. "I'm afraid I don't remember anything before standing in the park in the rain," said the man. "What wrong? What's wrong, Don?" demanded the woman, a note of hysteria in her voice. "What's happening to us?" "It's just that I don't understand this situation at all," I said. "You say you're husband and wife. Then you won't mind both sleeping here in the den, and tomorrow we'll see what we can find out." In this remarkable fashion began a remarkable fifteen years. L ooking back on it, i supi pose I loved Summer Storm from the time I saw her. I've been trying to decide what that makes me. Incestuous? Just narcissistic?' Or, perhaps, Jovian? She was alone in the den when I looked in the next morning before breakfast. Wyn -- short for "Wyndham," I learned later -- was wandering around in the back yard, looking lost. Summer had a pair of my scissors in her hand, evidently preparing to trim her hair. Somewhat to my surprise, she looked contrite when she saw me. "I just thought I might look better with short hair," she explained. "Good Lord, it's too short now!" I exclaimed. "I like women with long hair." She hesitated, then reached up to begin clipping. Somewhat nettled, I turned on my heel and walked out. That incident is noteworthy for its strange sequel. At breakfast, I was thunderstruck to observe that Summer Storm's hair was long -- at least shoulder length, for it was done up in a neat bun behind her head. Where in my house had she found a wig to match her own hair? And how long must the wig have been originally, for her to have cut from it the long tresses I found later in the wastebasket? After breakfast, I took Wyn with me to check on the house at # March Street. I left Summer at home. Although she claimed to remember things and Wyn said he couldn't, I could make nothing of her "memories." There was a strangeness about talking with her, too, something I couldn't quite put my finger on yet. As Gus had said, the house at # March Street was vacant It was for rent. The owner, old Albert Meecham, lived next door, and I made an impulsive decision on the spot. "Your wife insists you live here, so you two must be connected with this address in some way," I told Wyn. "I'll rent the place for you while we're trying to run down some information on your background. If you decide to stay in Allertown, you can pay me back after you get a job." The only way I knew to probe the origins of Wyn and Summer was through the customary channels. That afternoon, I went down to the police station to talk with my friend, Gus, before he started on his beat. The Allertown police station is nothing but a room in the ancient city hall, a block off Main Street, but it does have a separate outside entrance. Gus was sitting on a bench in the shade by the entrance, fanning himself with his cap. The perspiration pasted his dark blue shirt to his well-padded arms and chest. The relief the storm had brought hadn't lasted long. I sat down on the other end of the bench. "Gus," I said, "can you fellows help me find out who those people are we picked up in the park last night? It's funny, but the man has amnesia, and I think the woman's a little strange in the head." Gus looked at me a little reproachfully. He laid the cap down, to pull his handkerchief from his hip pocket and mop his brow. "You mean that story you told me was the truth?" he asked. "I thought they might be some relatives of yours, that had got into some sort of a scrape. Both of them look a lot like you." "Do they? Well, they're no relatives of mine. I'd like to know just who they are. Mr. and Mrs. Wyndham Storm, she says." "They don't come from Allertown," he said. "I'd know them if they was from Allertown. But they was raised around in this country somewhere." "How do you know that?" "There's a way of talking folks have around here. You don't hear it outside these three or four counties, and you wouldn't notice it if you wasn't watching for it. Take my word for it, those folks was bom and raised not fifty miles from here." "Well, just to be on die safe side, you'd better check to see that they're not wanted criminals," I said. "Amnesia would make a good dodge for a criminal." "I've already done that," he said quiedy. "There not." Wyn and Summer weren't missing persons from anywhere in our secdon of the state, either. Gus looked into that angle very thoroughly dining the next few weeks, and reported failure. Wyn got a job as clerk at McClellan's Dry Goods Store and, for reasons he did not confide to me, enrolled in night classes at Slayden College. He and Summer soon were established in the neighborhood as "that nice young couple that Don Gracey brought in from somewhere out West." How the townspeople got started on that Z Western origin theory, I don't know; I suppose it's natural for people to tack some sort of an origin on strangers. I confess that their origin soon became a matter of minor importance to me, although I remained curious about it. I found Wyn extremely likeable; we became very close friends, although I estimate that I am ten to fifteen years older than Wyn. And, as I say, I was in love with Summer, although it was a long time before I admitted that to myself. I told myself I felt about Summer as I would my own daughter, if a bachelor like me could say such a thing; and I felt toward Wyn as though he were my son. There was a good deal of accuracy to that description of my feelings, but there was a mystery about Summer that drew me powerfully. I think the unattainable in woman is always irresistible. Summer had the most peculiar air of unattainability about her I ever have experienced. It was as though, when I touched her, it was a fleeting touch; when I looked at her, I was constantly beset by the feeling that she would, the next instant, shimmer into insubstantiality. Talking with her heightened this illusion, rather than lessening it. A conversation with Summer was a unique experience. It was a little like two people trying to talk at once, each talking, then each hesitating to let the other have his say. Our words crossed each other, like scissor blades that do not quite meet. She might answer a question before it was asked, or take the conversation off on tangent after tangent. Disconnected, discontinuous -- those adjectives describe our conversations. Except for his amnesia, dating back to the night in the park, Wyn was perfectly normal. After some time, he confided that he, too, was concerned about Summer's strangeness. I got the impression from him -- though he did not go into great detail -- that it extended beyond her conversation, to her actions. "It seems to me that I ought to know what's wrong with Summer," he told me, very puzzled about it. "I mean, it seems I ought to remember. But I don't. I've gone so far as to talk it over with her." "What did she say?" I asked. "She said she wasn't going to tell me now. She said she'd tell me one of these days, but that when she did, I'd leave her. She smiled all the time she was saying it, in the strangest way." Well, we had Summer examined. Old Doctor Lodge is no psychiatrist, but a man isn't a general practitioner for as long as he's been at it without learning something about the way a person's mind ticks. He said there was nothing wrong with Summer, mentally. "She acts like she's still suffering a little from some sort of shock," he said. "If she was right next to a lightning bolt when it struck, I'm not surprised. It's lasting a little longer than such things usually do, but it'll clear up." It didn't clear up, but Wyn and I got used to it. Amateurs, they say, shouldn't fool around with hypnosis, and I suppose there's a sound reason behind that admonition. But I'm a little better than the average amateur hypnotist. I've not only done a good deal of it at club benefits and what not, but I've read pretty heavily in psychology. I decided to see if hypnotizing Wyn would give me any clue to his past and Summer's. Summer sat beside me that night at their home, as I went through the familiar motions and Wyn sank into hypnotic trance. Under hypnosis, Wyn recalled easily everything that had happened since that night in the park. But attempts to regress him past that night brought only a death-like silence, in which he sat pale and immobile. I tried several times, and at last succeeded in getting him in an extremely deep hypnotic state. Suddenly, Summer interrupted with an exclamation. "That's me!" she exclaimed. "That's what I told him four years ago!" "Quiet, Summer," I commanded, looking at her curiously. "I think I may be able to get something out of Wyn now." Despite total lack of response when regressed to ages # and #, I regressed him to age #. He stirred and murmured. His eyelids fluttered. "What do you see?" I asked eagerly. "What are you doing?" "Wyn?" he exclaimed. His voice was clear and treble, the voice of a woman, as he called his own name. He clenched his fists, and moved his head from side to side. "Wyn, I'm going to have a baby!" "What!" I exploded, amazed. "Wyn, what do you see?" He opened his eyes. "Why, I see you, Don," he said in his normal hearty voice. "What else should I see?" With a suddenness I never have seen before or since, he had come out of the hypnotic state. I was afraid to delve any deeper. I didn't try hypnosis again. During these first few years, Wyn and Summer gradually lost that identity of appearance which had made them look so much like twins the night I found them in the park. Wyn aged, not excessively but as any adult man would age in a few years. Summer, on the other hand, seemed to have found the secret of eternal youth. She grew ever more delicate and beautiful, and her fair skin seemed to take on a translucent glow. I was a close friend of the couple, and I found that I was alone with Summer a good deal. Summer had shown an interest in schooling, too. She started in college with Wyn, then dropped back to high school, and finally fell back on studying at home. It wasn't that she wasn't bright. She seemed to recognize the facts she was studying almost at once, but tests and examinations were her downfall. She never could remember enough of the things she had studied to make a passing grade. So I went to the house at # March Street often in the early evenings, to help Summer in her studies. Z Their son was bom about six years after they came to Allertown. It was a peculiar thing. There was no noticeable sign of pregnancy. Summer was sure she was pregnant, but Doctor Lodge scoffed at her, right up to the time of the birth. "Sure, she has milk," he told Wyn and me, tugging at his white mustache and giving us a wise smile. "It's not unusual. She isn't carrying a child, though. It's a false pregnancy." But the child was bom. Then Doctor Lodge reversed himself and insisted she was carrying an unborn twin. Again he was wrong. Summer gradually but steadily recovered from the effects of the birth and regained her slender figure. I still do not attempt to excuse Wyn for leaving his wife and newborn son. He was overwrought, it's true, but he should have taken them with him. Instead, he came to me, his suitcase packed, when the child was about a month old. His face showed his agitation. "Don, I'm leaving Summer," he said abruptly. "Wyn! Why? What's happened?" "I found out yesterday why she acts and talks so strangely. She told me. I couldn't sleep last night, and I've decided I must leave Allertown. Somewhere there may be people who can help me, but I can't find the help I need here." "Was it so terrible?" I asked, trying to calm him. "What did she tell you, Wyn?" He leaned forward intensely, pointing a finger at me, and opened his mouth to speak. Then he shut it and sat back. He shook his head. "No," he said. "Maybe it wouldn't affect you as it has me, but you couldn't feel comfortable about it. All I want from you, Don, is the promise that you'll take care of Summer and little Mark for me until I come back." "You know I'll do that. They can move in here right away. But I think you're making a mistake, running away from whatever it is." "I'm not running away," he replied. "I told you, I've got to have help." That's all he would say. He left on the mid-afternoon train for Mayer City, and I went around to # March Street to help move his wife and child into my own home. I didn't recall until three days later that Summer had predicted -- or so Wyn had said -- that when she told him why she acted as she did, he would leave her. leaving his wife and child, I have even less excuse for becoming his wife's lover. The fact that the interlude may have been necessary to his very existence -- and hers -- is no justification, for I did not know that then. Nor do I know it certainly now. But picture the plight of a man who has in his home a young and beautiful woman, the realization growing on him, day by day, that he has loved her for six years. And it was Summer's fault, as much as my own. Perhaps more. Despite Wyn's words, I could not be sure that he would return to her, and certainly she must have known that he would. Despite this, she did more than merely encourage me. I have wondered often about the philosophical implications of this fact. If Summer had not encouraged me, I wouldn't have been bold enough to make any advances on my own account... and where would that have left Summer? On the other hand, it was the most natural thing in the world that Summer should encourage me. She knew. Wyn had been away only about two months when Summer, rousing herself from a deeply pensive mood one night, sat down by my side on the sofa and snuggled up close to me. I couldn't bring myself to pull away from her, but I exclaimed : "Summer, this isn't right. What about Wyn?" "I don't understand this coolness toward me, Don," she said, laying her head on my shoulder. "People who love each other shouldn't act so aloof." "I was thunderstruck at this admission. But I couldn't help saying what I said then. "I do love you, Summer," I confessed, almost choking. At once she arose and left me. I thought I had offended her, and I was almost relieved that I had. It was best that she should be discouraged about any ideas she might have about me. But thirty minutes later she gave me a smile that made me not so sure she was offended. And the incident seemed to increase, rather than dampen, the warmth of her attitude toward me. It was unpardonable, with Wyn gone so short a time, but I had no strength to resist the inexorable attentions of a woman I loved. When she came to me in negligee late one night a week later, I became Summer's lover. I have said it was partly Summer's fault, and the sequence of events would make it appear almost entirely her fault. This is not true; and I found out several years later why it is not true. My inexcusable affair with Summer lasted for about a year, before the conversation occurred which caused me to terminate it abruptly. I had just entered the parlor, where Summer was curled in a big chair, reading. "I don't see any reason for our not loving each other, if we really do, Don," she said petulantly. "Wyn says he's my husband, but I don't feel that he is. Why should I be tied by a marriage ceremony I don't know anything about yet?" I could not answer, for I was looking at her through new eyes. Her tone of voice had been so like that of an indignant child that it awakened me to something I should have seen before. How like an adolescent girl she was, really! The pale gold hair framed a young face. Despite the rondures of her figure, there was a looseness about the way her legs were attached to her pelvis, giving her frame that impression of hoiZ lowness that is frequent among slender young virgins. In the seven years I had known her, how could I ever have built up in my mind the picture of her as a mature woman? When I thought about that sudden protestation of hers, made after we had lived as man and wife for a year, it seemed to me that it could only have arisen from remorse at such a situation. But it was neither this nor the fact that I was wronging her and Wyn that caused me to resolve then and there that never again would I so much as kiss her. It was that she was too young! I did not waver in that resolve, from that time on. But I thought a great deal about this matter: I had known Summer for seven years and she had been a woman when I first saw her. Yet her youthful appearance now made it impossible that she should have been adult then. Surely my memory did not play me wrong in picturing the Summer Storm I had seen that night in the park; indeed, the picture of her was burned indelibly on my mind. She must have, in the interim, become slighter, even smaller. Oddly, this slenderizing process, once I noticed it, seemed reluctant to stop. The bathroom scales proved that she was losing weight slowly, but in her appearance the decline progressed much more rapidly. She began to get leggy and angular and she completely lost the once-voluptuous contours of her body, despite all the milk and starchy foods I could feed her. Nor was it that she lost appetite. She ate voraciously. At the same time, I became convinced she was losing her memory. Chance remarks dropped at odd times indicated that her recollection of Wyn, of the events before Mark's birth, of all her past life in Allertown, was extremely faulty; she never had shown signs of remembering any events before she came to Allertown. As a matter of fact, it became increasingly apparent that she no longer accepted Mark as her son. The boy was growing out of babyhood with that speed which is so remarkable in children. She cared for him solicitously, but seemed to look on him as her little brother. Of course, I took her to Doctor Lodge. He, in turn, went with us to consult doctors at Mayer City. He could find nothing wrong with Summer physically, nor could they. They seemed to think we were faking. They heard my assurances, and those of Doctor Lodge, that Summer must be approaching the age of thirty, with obvious skepticism. "There is nothing wrong with this girl except an unfortunate emotional aberration," one doctor told me flatly. "Physiologically she is a girl of about fourteen, and it is difficult for me to believe that her chronological age is any higher." "As I told you before, she has a son nearly four years old," I said. "I don't say that's impossible at her age, for it isn't," he retorted. "But this girl has never been a mother. She's a virgin." I should have realized what all this meant. I believe there have been such cases in medical history before. But I suppose I was too close to it. I didn't understand, even when Summer reposed childish confidence in me. "I know what's going to happen, you know, because it's already happened to me," she said. She was a skinny girl now, with enormous blue eyes. "You know what's happened, because its already happened to you. Isn't it funny?" Fortunately, Wyn returned not long after that. Wyn had the answer to the questions that had been puzzling me. return. He just walked into the house one afternoon, carrying a suitcase and smoking a pipe. When I found Wyn and Summer in the park, they had appeared to be twins. During Wyn's absence his hair had begun to gray -- prematurely, I'm sure -- and now he looked like Summer's father. The change in her must have been even more noticeable to him than it was to me, because he had been separated from her during its most remarkable development. But he showed no surprise at it. "I knew what the trouble was before I left," he said soberly. "You see, as Summer's husband I was much closer to her than you could be, even since she and the boy have been living with you." I could feel my ears turning red. I asked hurriedly: "What is wrong with Summer, Wyn?" "She lives backwards," he said. "Time is reversed for her. It isn't only a physiological reversal. Everything goes backwards in time for her. The future is the past to Summer, and the past is the unknown future. She remembers the future, Don -- she remembers it, because she has seen it happen." "That's impossible!" I exclaimed. "How can she? It hasn't happened yet!" "To her it has," he replied. "It may upset your conception of the future as a fluid thing of limitless possibilities, but Summer's experience is pretty good evidence that it is as frozen and stable as the past. As the Orientals say, what is to be will be." I thought about that, and I thought I detected a flaw. "Oh, no!" I said. "Wait a minute here, Wyn. If she can't remember the past even a minute ahead, you couldn't even talk with her. She'd remember what you were going to say, instead of what you had said. Not only that, she'd talk backward! You'd never be able to understand her." "People are adaptable," he replied. "She evidently learned to talk backward -- to her; correctly, to us. People learn to talk so others can understand them. And as for conversation, do you remember Summer ever answering a question directly?" I started to say I did, for it seemed that I did. But a moment's reflection changed my mind. Not a direct question; and her participation in a conversation always had been a jumpy and disturbing thing. Z "But we can talk with Summer," I protested. "For years we've been able to understand each other." "Like writing letters that cross in the mails," he said. "And I think people do have some knowledge of the immediate future, even you and I. Summer would develop that faculty more than the average person." Certainly. No wonder she had been so affectionate to me that it had been impossible for me to resist her. To her, at that time, we had already been lovers. By the same token, my own knowledge when the affair was concluded that we had been lovers must have created in me an attitude that was a strong incentive for her to yield to me at the end of our relationship -- the beginning, to her. What a way to live! Always trying to guess, from the conversation of those around her, what (to her) was going to happen, so she could react intelligently. to accept it, "if the past is the future to her, her actions could affect the past." "Exactly," he said. "I told you, this means you have to accept the principle that the past is just as mailable as the future, and the future is no more mailable than the past." Wyn had known all this before he left. He had gone, not just to avoid seeing his wife revert to childhood before his eyes, but to delve into studies on the nature of time itself. Where he had been, how he had supported himself I didn't know. I still don't know. Summer, her age now about thirteen, was old enough to understand that she was Wyn's wife, but he did not resume his position as husband to her. Instead, he acted toward her and Mark both as a father. Me? I suppose I was something in the nature of a benevolent uncle now. As a matter of fact, Wyn plunged so deeply into work that the task devolved upon me to be both father and mother to Summer and her child. Mark, developing apace into a vigorous young specimen, looked like both his parents -- since their features were so much alike, he could not be said to resemble one more than the other. Wyn did not return with his family to the house at # March Street. It had long been occupied by someone else. He moved in with us and, with my tacit consent, made my home both his home and the headquarters for his work. His work actually was double. He got a good job, this time as engineer at the Allertown Mill Industries. During all his spare time, he worked at converting my precious den and my basement into something completely beyond my understanding. There are some people who accept misfortune and live with it -- or die with it. Others battle it angrily to the bitter end, even when there is no evidence that anyone ever conquered their particular misfortune before. Admittedly, there was little precedent for Summer's case ; and this made the prognosis even less optimistic. Still, Wyn was constitutionally the latter type of person. "I don't know how much longer she lived in the past before you found us," he told me. "Nothing I could do has helped my amnesia for that period. She may have lived to a ripe old age, for all I know. "But we know that she has only a few years to live, the way she is now -- perhaps twelve or thirteen. That's her physical age, and she is living backwards toward babyhood." "What will she do?" I asked curiously. "Just fade away?" "She has to be born," he answered solemnly. "My guess is that, a few years in the future, there will occur the most unique birth ever known to man -- a birth in reverse. Some couple, somewhere -- perhaps someone we know here in Allertown -- will live through the experience of the daughter they never knew reentering the mother's womb and retracing her steps through the embryo stage to the moment of conception." "Fantastic!" I exclaimed. "It must be true;" he insisted. "It has to be true, unless she reversed... will reverse... her direction in time after birth. In that case, perhaps some baby girl here even now is Summer, living coexistently with her reversed self." "If you're going to reverse her direction in time again and make her live normally," I said, for he already had told. me this was his aim, "I don't see how you can prevent a paradox. She has already lived in the past as an adult woman. If you reverse her existence at this stage, then she can't be born, because she'd be living from her present age on, both forward and backward in time." He shook his head. "I don't know," he said. "Perhaps it can't be done. Perhaps it would involve a parallel time stream, if there is such a thing. All I know is that I must try. If I can, she might still consent to be my wife later, if the difference in our ages isn't too great. That would be up to her." "I don't see how you even know where to start on such a project," I confessed. "The chances are slim," he admitted, "but I have some hope. The only actual time reversal we know, scientifically, is at the sub-atomic level. The theory was advanced by Feynman that annihilation of an electron-positron pair upon contact might be, not actual annihilation, but a 'time reversal' of the electron. The emission of a photon of energy, in such cases, is powerful enough to cause a recoil in time, and the positron is merely the electron traveling backward through time after the energy explosion." I looked extremely blank. "Look," said Wyn, taking up a pencil. He drew a big "Z" on a piece of scrap paper, labelling the two arms "E" and the connecting line "P". The angles he marked "A" and "B:" "The flow of Time is from left to right," he explained. "At left is the past, at right the future. This electron, E, is moving normally along at the top of the diagram Z E when it runs into an energy explosion at A. It reverses itself, going back through time as the positron, P, until it hits another energy explosion at B. Then it is reversed again into the right time direction, continuing as the electron E, at the bottom. You follow the line, as the pencil point does in making the Z, and it's a single body. "But," and he drew a vertical line through the Z, "we move always forward in time. To us, the energy explosion at B happens before the one at A. Suddenly at B, a positron and an electron are created out of nothing. The electron at the top apparently has nothing to do with either of them. But the positron moves along and collides with it at A, leaving nothing there again -- except, once more, an apparently unrelated electron, the one at the bottom of the diagram." "But you're saying the same thing can exist in three places at once," I objected. "Exactly, but in one of those places, it's traveling backward in time. So, if Summer's time reversal occurred or will occur after birth, she may be existing somewhere else, as a younger girl, right now; besides being here in the house with us." "Your example is, as you say, at the atomic level," I said. "How can you transfer that into terms of human beings?" "The only thing I know to do," he said, is to create an energy explosion which I know won't hurt Summer physically, but may reverse her back to a normal direction. It would be like the energy explosion that meets the positron at B and forces it to continue existence as an electron." "It appears to me," I said slowly, trying to grasp the concept, "that your explosion at B would have to have happened already if it were going to happen at all." The amazing thing about it is that Wyn, the man who had studied all this thoroughly, apparently didn't understand what I meant. It just goes to show that he must have been right, when he said the future is as fixed as the past. get his equipment ready for a test. He explained to me what it was supposed to do, but I never did get more than a general idea of the principle involved. The heart of the thing was a heavily wired chamber in the basement. "The human body can take a lot of electricity, if it's administered in the right way," he said. "If it's administered in the wrong way, you've electrocuted somebody. "I still don't know whether I've probed the secrets of the space-time fabric deeply enough to make this work, but I think it will reverse the charge of every atomic particle in the body of whatever is in that cubicle. I'm going to put a cat in it, as our first time-traveler. "We may turn up with a cat and an anti-cat, the latter traveling backward in time. We may end with no cat at all. If so, maybe we've created an anti-cat in the past or maybe we've just electrocuted a cat." "I don't see how you expect to interpret your results," I commented drily. "If there's no cat, I won't risk it," he answered. "If we double our cats, I think we're on the way to something that may help Summer." We picked our way through the mess of wiring and went upstairs. He had torn my bookcases out of one wall of the den and installed a control board with a television screen where the fireplace had been. "The experiment will be controlled from here," he said. "The energies that are going to run around all over the basement would make it pretty dangerous for anyone down there. I'm sorry you can't watch, but somebody's got to keep the children away from here." When he said "children," he meant Summer and Mark. Summer now looked as much a twin to her nine-year-old son as she had looked to her husband when I first saw them. At the last two Christmases, we had bought toys for both of them, and she played happily with Mark. She called Wyn "daddy" and me "Uncle Don," just as Mark did. Making them look even more like twins as we entered the living room on the day of Wyn's experiment was the fact that they were dressed alike. She wore a pair of Mark's overalls, and both had on T-shirts. At the moment, the two were trying to put doll clothes on Thomas, the stray yellow cat Wyn had picked up for his experiment. We had had Thomas about six months now. Wyn and I had dubbed the animal "Tom," unaware of its sex -- it had borne kittens during its stay with us -- but the children thought the cat too dignified for the nickname. It was, except when they were trying out their various original ideas on it. "Thomas is our first heroine -- or martyr," said Wyn, and swept the cat up from the floor. Over the protests of the children, he stripped off the doll clothing. "You youngsters go out on the side lawn and play. Uncle Don will take care of you for a while." Caring for the children had been my chore for so long I was accustomed to the peculiarities involved. Mark was as much a problem as any normal, active boy -- no more. But Summer's reverse living, her reverse memory, made her even more difficult to deal with as she reverted to childish habits and attitudes. For some weeks now, she had indulged in the fantasy that she was Mark and Mark was she, a game Mark rebelled at strenuously. At the same time, her manner of Z speaking had become so confused and tangled that it was often incoherent. If Wyn failed in his experiment, the next nine years threatened to be trying indeed. The children left the house with me docilely enough, but as soon as we reached the lawn Mark burst into tears. "What's the matter with you, young fellow?" I asked in surprise. "What's Daddy going to do to Thomas?" he demanded. "Daddy's going to hurt Thomas!" "Don't worry, Thomas isn't going to hurt," I reassured him, aware that I might not be telling the truth. The boy looked at me straight "I know what a martyr is," he said indignantly, his sobs subsiding. "I studied Joan of Arc in school." "Daddy... Thomas in big furnace put," Summer informed us in her labored fashion. "Thomas all burnt up was going to. Him... but I him saved. Saved him, Summer and I." "Neither one of you is going to do anything about Thomas right now," I said brusquely, recognizing Summer's use of the past tense as an expression of intention. "When Daddy's through with Thomas, you may play with him again." Mark subsided, but he retained on his face a rebellious expression which had by now become familiar to me. Summer, although she said nothing for a few moments, became more excited. She alternately flushed and paled, breathing hard, until I began to fear she was ill. Now a deep, powerful hum arose from the house. Wyn had switched on the power and was ready for his experiment. It was a tremendous volume of sound, a physical thing that throbbed through the ground under our feet and caused the leaves of the trees to tremble as in a breeze. An electric tension filled the air and seemed to intensify Summer's agitation. Her eyes dilated in fright and her teeth began to chatter. "Away got I but!" she cried suddenly in a shrill voice. "Up blew it before away ran he and Thomas saved I! Me with up blew it and fire of full furnace big a was it! Furnace a in Thomas had they!" "Here, child!" I shouted above the increasing roar of the generators. "You're hysterical. Nothing's going to happen to Thomas." She quieted abruptly, glaring at Mark in affright. He stared back, equally alarmed. "He isn't, Summer he's?" she asked me plaintively. "Boy a be Summer could how? Mark I'm know I." I didn't understand this at all, especially when Summer began feeling her arms and legs and inspecting herself all over, carefully. The sound of the machinery in the basement reached a shrieking crescendo that must have put the teeth of everyone in the neighborhood on edge. Mark came to life. His eyes shining fiercely, he grasped Summer by the arm. "Are they going to hurt Thomas?" he demanded intently. "Are they, Summer?" She looked at me, not the boy, and suddenly she was calm as though in the grip of profound shock. I could hardly hear her quiet, childish voice through the noise from the basement. "Where... know... don't," she began haltingly. "Gone... Summer's but. Furnace the in him had they. Thomas saved I." Her voice trailed to a gurgle and then she began to chant, "Bum Thomas bum Thomas bum Thomas..." The boy suddenly broke from her and began to run for the house. after him. Caught by surprise, it was a moment before I could gather my wits and follow, shouting at them. They had disappeared around the corner of the house, and I rounded it in time to see them tug open the outside basement door and vanish inside. An eerie blue light flickered from the open door. Trying to run too fast, I tripped over the garden hose and fell. I got to my feet, momentarily dazed. The explosion knocked me flat on my back, blinded by the flash that burst from the basement win dows and through the cracking walls. The blast tilted the den up from the bottom. Its metal and concrete floor, reinforced for the experiment, buckled but remained unbroken, like a giant slide. Down that slide, through the smashed walls, Wyn catapulted, to fall unhurt into the grass. But the rest of the house crumpled in on the basement and caught fire. Under the blazing piles of ruins, I could only surmise, were trapped the children, both mother and son. I wept frantically. At my age, I must have been a pitiful spectacle. Neighbors put their arms around my shoulders, tried to comfort me. In contrast, Wyn was remarkably calm as he reported to Gus Adams. "Every precaution was taken, Mr. Adams," he said, staring morosely into the smoking embers of the house. "Both of them ran into the basement just before the explosion. There was nothing anyone could do after that." "Too bad, Mr. Storm, to lose your wife and son all at once," said Gus sympathetically, writing in his report book. We had kept Summer pretty well concealed behind the high board fence in recent years, so few people were aware of her retrogression. "If there's anything I can do to help, let me know." I upbraided Wyn for his apparent callousness when we got to a room at the City Hotel. "You may be right," he said. "But, first, I want to know something." He had me relate to him everything that had transpired with the children after we left the house. He made me repeat several points and questioned me closely. He was interested particularly in what Summer had said, how she had said it and how she had acted. The whole thing was so clearly impressed on my mind, as it is today, that I'm sure I made few errors. "Well," he said, when I had finished, "we'll never see either of them again, but I think I can say Z definitely they weren't killed in that explosion." "I don't see how you can say that!" I exclaimed. "You remember what I told you -- that if Summer's existence had been reversed in time after she was bom, she was existing somewhere else at the same time? Living normally as a younger child in one place, and as we knew her in reverse?" I did remember it. "Well, she was. But we thought she'd be a girl in both instances. When her time direction was reversed, so was her sex. Mark and Summer were the same person! # I gasped. Wyn took a piece of hotel stationery from the rickety desk and scratched a zigzag on it with his pen. It was a figure like the one he had drawn in the library of our home, except that the top arm of this Z was very short. He labelled the top arm of the Z "Mark," and the diagonal "Summer." "My mistake was that I thought my energy explosion would be at B, throwing Summer back into a normal time direction. Instead, it was at A, reversing the time direction of Mark's existence: and the reversed Mark was Summer." "But Mark was Summer's son." I exclaimed. "Curious, isn't it?" he agreed, smiling strangely. "She gave birth to herself, like the phoenix. Nor is that all. She conceived herself!" With a firm hand, he wrote "Wyn" above the bottom arm of the Z! The diagram looked like this: "The re-reversal !" His blue eyes were a little self conscious as they looked at me now. "Don, I was bom Mark Storm. This explosion today reversed my time direction and I became Summer Storm, to give birth to myself nine years ago. And in a terrific burst of natural energy that you yourself saw, a crucible so fiery that it could wrench the very inner fabric and physical form of the body, the time flow for me was twisted back to its proper direction that night in the park and I became myself -- to father myself six years later! "I was my mother. I am my own father and my own son!" There it is. Wyn believes he sprang from nothingness, from himself. Amid the wreckage of the laws of cause and effect that this whole thing involves, it's possible, I suppose. But a couple of details still bother me, details I haven't mentioned to Wyn. Oh, it isn't the coincidences. If the future is fixed as is the past, they wouldn't necessarily be coincidences: things like Summer -- in the reversed time in which she lived -- stripping off her clothes, donning Gus Adams' raincoat over her nakedness and going with us out to the park, to that rendezvous with the lightning and Wyn. One of the details I can't take is that it's hard to believe that, even in such strange twistings and turnings of time, any creature can initiate itself and, in effect, spring from nothing -- though Wyn says it's done at the sub-atomic level in simple terms of conversion of energy to matter. But how about the fact that such a complicated creature as man is built by the action of the genes and chromosomes? The other is that year that I was Summer's lover. If she was living backward biologically, wouldn't that apply, too, to the growth of an unborn child while it was still part of her. And Wyn left Allertown right after Mark's birth. I've heard of virgin mothers. I'd rather believe in a "virgin father" than human creation from nothingness. I once had hair, and it was blond. My eyes are blue. I look in the mirror, and then I look at Wyn lounging at ease behind his newspaper. My son? My motherless son?    What Is Your Science I. Q.f T RY answering the quiz below to find out how science-wise you are. Score # points for each correct answer; # is good, # very good, over # makes you a whizz. Answers on page #. #. According to the theory of relativity, mass and are equal and interchangeable. #. On the basis of the chemical activity of metals, which metal is the most active? #. The critical temperature of oxygen is centigrade. #. What do we call a compound which consists of two elements only? #. Long waves are radio waves with frequencies less than kilocycles. #. What is the chief component of protoplasm? #. Carbon, hydrogen, oxygen and are always present in proteins. #. light vibrates on only one plane. #. What is the name of the chemical process in which a solid substance changes directly to vapor without going through a liquid state? #. Ozone is times heavier than oxygen by weight. #. What have, quaternion, tensor and vector in common? #. Which radioactive rays cannot have their direction changed by a magnetic field? #. Pressure in the ocean increases one atmosphere for feet of depth. #. What is the name given to the process of joining together a number of molecules of the same kind to form a single larger molecule? #. Inertia as velocity approaches the speed of light. #. A nuclear particle intermediate between an electron and a proton is called a . #. A siderite is a meteorite composed entirely of . #. Heat energy is liberated by the decomposition of radium at a rate of about calories per hour for each gram. #. Which radioactive rays have the lowest velocity? #. The photic zone of the ocean where there is sufficient light for photosynthesis of sea plants exists only to a depth of about feet. Wellesley was ordered to check on deviants or mutants. But the evidence was often subtle, and he knew he couldn't afford to take a chance... the scam per ers in the season of aphelion, when the binary suns of that remote planet were cold serpent's eyes, dimly seen above the chill mists that shrouded its fern forests and craggy, young mountains, its silent oceans and magnificent organ pipe cities of legend. From space one might look down upon the vista of these latter prominences and imagine a vast, exotic civilization spread over the face of the equinoctial swamps, but Wellesley knew that the giant towers were mere calcareous shells, hollow as the expectations they had inspired in the first planeteers to arrive here two hundred years ago -- they were the work, in fact, of small, mindless crustaceans. His own destination, a small, shabby, corporate plantation, was less impressive in appearance. Its name was Aidennsport. It consisted of a hundred buildings, including a commissary and a hulking communal storehouse. The primordial jungle was all about it. To Wellesley, yellow-cheeked from too many years in space, cynical from the paucity of human values in his life, Aidennsport was the despised prototype of colonial stagnation about the galactic rim. For he was a dour, lanky pessimist among that immense, invaluable, but nondescript order of men, the Rift constabulary, wjiose beat is the emptiness between the stars, and which enforces the name of law throughout the vast reaches of the firmament beyond Sol's sprawling civilization. Wellesley's ship was accustomed to describe an elliptical orbit which brought it near the system containing Ophir once every seventh sidereal month. It never stopped. Its course was an inexorable as a comet's; nevertheless, he had lately received the commission of an errand here for the omnipotent Department of Genetics and Genealogical Records. And so he was forced to make landfall in a rocket tender in a meadow by Aidennsport, while the ground quaked dangerously beneath the settling blasts of the tiny vessel. He located the single course of the village without difficulty. Half a dozen ragged children were playing there, and stopped to stare. Women peered at his dark uniform from behind curtains in the stained, milk-colored bungalows. Quaintly dressed men, tending the auto-pickers in nearby fields of drug-plant, shaded their eyes to gaze with silent menace, though there was no sun. He was able to find the house of the agent by the frayed company flag flying over it. To the right of it was the warehouse where the annual crop of senna-like leaves of the drug-plant were stored for drying. This was Aidennsport's meagre industry. Beyond lay the swamp, and far across its desolate surface, the multi-colored towers of the pipes fingered the sky, aloof and sinister in aspect. A boy of no more than ten, dark eyed but with that startling, burnished-gold complexion so often found in the systems of twin or multiple suns, sat upon the steps before the cottage. He was playing with a furry animal not unlike a Martian ferrax, which sprang up, scarlet-eyed and bristling, at the sight of Wellesley. "Here, boy," said Wellesley, who neither liked nor trusted children. the factor of Aidennsport?" "Sure. That's my pa. Say, are you a spaceman?" "Never mind that. Where is your father?" "In the warehouse," the boy said. "I'll show you how to get inside. My name's Joseph, and I have a spaceship in the back yard. I call it the Stygia, after the pirate ship of the twenty-eighth century Do you want to see my crew?" "Later, perhaps," said Wellesley dryly. "Come along, now" They found tall, aluminum doors which slid back at the wave of a hand, and entered into a vastness of cool gloom, permeated by a spicelike odor of curing leaves. A figure emerged from the drying racks at the other end of die warehouse. "Is that you , Joseph ?" "That's pa," Joseph said. "Damn you, Joseph!" "I guess he's drunk," Joseph said. Wellesley advanced. "I am Lieutenant Wellesley of the Rift police," he said. ruin of a man, with seamed face and heavy grey brows that shadowed intense blue eyes. Eyes that glared just now. "What do you want here?" he bellowed. "My mission is to perform an ethnic census for the Bureau of Genetics. I shall require your cooperation." "There are three hundred and twelve people in Aidennsport," get out. Go back to your space castle and leave us alone." Wellesley sighed. "I am afraid that an ethnic census is never quite that simple. However, since you are required by law to assist me, you may as well know the truth. This community is suspected of inbreed  mg. Inbreeding is not, of course, a crime, except against nature. Nor is it ordinarily dangerous. Combined, however, with the environmental influences of certain Rim planets, it may cause genuine, truebreeding mutations within the species, such as monsters, impressiono-telepaths, psycho-variants and other undesirables which, if allowed to multiply for a few generations, might become dominant. They are located and deported to A-type worlds. It had been an anonymous tip that had brought Wellesley to Ophir, but in all the inhabited universe, he knew, the Bureau was the sole guardian of the classic blood strain, and it took no chances. "What's 'inbreeding,' pa?" said Joseph, tugging solemnly at his father's sleeve. "A naughty word of the middle aboo of the mighty sky-chiefs. If we do not co-operate we bring their lightning upon our heads. Yet, what must we do?" Wellesley did not smile. "You must inform the colonists that I wish to interview each member of every family and clan briefly, beginning tomorrow morning at seven. I do not mind in the least being persona non grata, but if any person fails to show up, or if there is any trouble, you will be held personally responsible. Moreover, I do not think you are as drunk as you would like me to believe." from his pocket and drained it. "One other thing. I shall need a place to sleep." abandoned native daub-hut behind my house. You are welcome to it." "It will serve," answered Wellesley coldly. "There are natives in the area then?" "Yes. Bipeds, though not mammalian, you will find. In fact, quite low in the scale of evolution. They are nearsighted and harmless by day, but you will be wise to keep to your hut after dark." "I can take care of myself." "I'll show you the place," Joseph offered. "I can carry your space kit, too." "Over there is my ship," Joseph said, pointing. "We are making ready to put out for Arcturus." There was a bright constancy about Joseph that clutched at the heart. Not Lieutenant Wellesley's heart, of course, he reminded himself. The "ship" was indeed the rusty, peaked foretank from some ancient freighter, complete with hatch. It was set on end at the edge Of the swamp. To any boy it would have been a starship. It was already dusk. The Ophirian daub-hut was not so bad as he expected. It was massive. The orifice had been enlarged into a door. Windows had been added. The only furnishing was the rude couch. tility. Joseph spied the ferrax-thing scuttling across the lawn and dived at it. The two of them rolled over and over, Joseph laughing, the animal growling and spitting. Wellesley went in, closed the door and removed his official log from its case. The next two hours were spent in a carefully worded account -- for space logs are part of the permanent records of the Galactic Court, among others -- of the events of the day, including a bleak and perhaps prejudiced account of the character of Aidennsport and Afterwards he lay back on the couch and smoked several cigarettes in lieu of the food capsules that he did not crave. He was far from imaginative; nevertheless, the character of the place crept at last into his consciousness. He was used to cramped, machinery-filled spaces and the sterile smells of hot metal and ozone ; here was an aura of decaying organic matter -- and of something else. A faint, but unmistakable reptilian odor, attesting to the nature of past inhabitants. The vault of darkness was absolute, unabated by the dim patches of light that were the fenestrations above where he lay. And presently someone very stealthily opened the door and entered. Only for an instant was the figure silhouetted there before the door closed and darkness reigned supreme once more. Yet that instant was long enough to tell him that it had been a woman. And though her features had not been discernible, he had gotten the impression of exceptional beauty. For a time there was no movement; no sound save her faint breathing. "Who's there?" he said. "What do you want?" And then she came nearer and stood so close to him that the perfume of her breath was upon his face. Suddenly he groped, caught her arm and pulled her to him. The warmth of her body was against him. He felt her tremble. But she did not try to pull away. He laughed. "Perhaps I may revise my opinion of Ophir," he said. "No light!" she whispered. Her voice was low and vibrant. "Why not?" "I must not be seen here. But I had to warn you. It would not have been right not to warn you about Aidennsport." "What of Aidennsport?" "It is a dreadful -- an evil place. There are forces here which you would not understand. Leave at once while you are still able to go!" "You forget that I am a policeman. To leave without completing the census would be dereliction. I remind you that the Empire is inexorable in these things. And who are you, anyway?" She did not answer, but drew away so quickly that he could not grasp her. In a moment, from across the room her voice came. It was less intimate, even matter-of-fact. "If you will not leave," she said, "lock this door behind me and do not, as you value your life, step outside this hut until daylight." She was suddenly gone and he was alone in mystification and wonder, and a dull, stirring anger that he could not account for. But he could make nothing of it and after a time he put the incident resolutely out of his mind and tried to sleep. This was not accomplished at once. Curious sounds had begun to filter in through the fenestrations. Some were the night sounds of birds or insects. Other sounds, faint hissings and gruntings, were unidentifiable. Once he thought he heard the slap-slap of bare feet running past his door. At last he was forced to employ a mild form of auto-suggestion learned long ago and employed often during those first lonely years in space. He slept. But once, in the early hours of morning, he was awakened by a tumult. There was much loud hissing and the scampering of many feet outside the daub-hut, as though some intricate and riotous game might be in progress out there, the nature Of the game -- or for that matter, the players -- unguessed at. But he was half asleep, and thought little of it until he awoke again at daybreak. constabulary is acknowledged universally, though sometimes grudgingly. The men of Aidennsport, therefore, sullenly reported to Wellesley, and brought their families. It is a singular thing, but almost every birth and death in the galaxy is recorded by the Empire. The laws concerning this are old and stringently enforced. Therefore Wellesley already had a fairly accurate estimate of the true population of Aidennsport, and it came close to the number offered by Following the seldom-used manual of the Bureau, he received vital statistics, made micro-photos and dermal prints, and endeavored .a minute scrutiny of every man, woman and child that passed before him. He was finished by midafternoon. Evidence of ingeneration he found in plenty, in the marked similarity of features among certain families, but nothing which could be called deviation or mutation. Not even polydactylism, which is one of the earlier manifestations. Still, he knew that the physical impress of the mutant was often subtle, and that he might have overlooked something. In none of the females could he identify the girl of last evening. If she had failed to appear -- was hiding in the village -- might not others be hiding too? The only recourse was to study the natives and try again. In many cases deviation among homo sapiens , who had colonized the Rim planets, simulated the natural characteristics of native races. The relationship between mutation and environment was obvious. The chief magistrate, factor, or leader of any colony with an official grant was required by law to assist and obey any member of the Rift police in the capacity of a deputy. who had been avoiding him all day. "Is there a tribe of the dominant native species near here?" he asked. saluted stiffly. "In the swamp, Lieutenant." "Guide me there." said, "and I will guide you there " "You refuse?" "I do. It's too dangerous for a spaceman. Full of bog-fever. You've no natural resistance. Besides, I'm busy inventorying." "Very well," Wellesley said, struggling to hold his temper in check, "I'll find them alone." "you will not come back, and that will be an irreparable loss to the Empire." Wellesley left him and made his way toward the swamp. Joseph was playing near his ship, and calling orders to an imaginary crew inside. When he saw Wellesley he came running. "We were just blasting off for Earth," he said, "but I heard you and Pa talking. If you want to go in the swamp. I'll show you the way. I've been there lots. The Ophirians hang out on the shores of the black lake, where the organ pipes are." He pointed to the towering pinnacles in the distance. "They catch shellfish there." "You know them?" "Everybody has seen them. They are kind of green and slimy, but they won't hurt you. They can't see in the day-time. Only smell. Anyway, I'm not afraid of them." "Done," said Wellesley, "and in return for the favor I promise to put in a word for you at the nearest spaceman's hiring hall." "You won't have to do that," Joseph said. "My crew and I are going to be space pirates." Then Wellesley laughed aloud, and felt better afterward than he had felt in many a long month. The trail through the swamp was damp and primitive. Everywhere the cycads, giant ferns and reeds overhung the path. There were great, blood-colored flowers which snapped at twigs that Joseph put into their corollas. Meanwhile, the ferrax-beast labored behind them, following with its proboscis to the ground, until the boy, taking pity, picked it up and carried it. Wellesley asked its name. "His name is Omur," Joseph said. "I caught him in the mountains when he was little and raised him. But now Omur is too fat to walk." Eventually they emerged into an open swale, with a stretch of dark water before them. On the other side of the slough lay a sight well worth a day's march. Dozens of giant pipes, some two hundred feet or more in height, stood braced against the sky, pastel blue, pink, and gold in the mists. But Wellesley was less interested in these than the creatures which moved like grubs about their base, at the edge of the lake -- squat, grotesque forms that waded the shallow water, scavenging for shellfish and crustaceans, and took no notice of the humans. On coming nearer, however, Wellesley observed a very curious fact. The Ophirians were of two varieties. The ones in the mud were gross and toadlike in appearance. Whenever they found an especial delicacy they would run, with their webbed feet making smacking sounds in the shoal water, and lay it at the feet of an Ophirian who sat in a wallow of peat moss and mud, and did nothing. He was a much smaller variety, but, Wellesley noted, with considerably greater frontal development to his skull. Also his thin body bore a long, green tail. The tails of the workers were vestigial. "The chief?" Wellesley asked. "No," Joseph said. "It's something else." "Are they a clan, then, or brothers?" "Closer than brothers," Joseph said, scratching Omur's head. "I have it -- avatars! I should have guessed!" He had heard of this odd genetic arrangement before, but never witnessed it. In such cases a dozen or more individuals were bom of a single nucleus in a single egg. Of these, one developed more fully than the rest and controlled his mentally-stunted avatars with a mental vinculum far more fundamental and powerful than mere telepathic union. On the other hand, the avatars were his hands and feet, and had larger bodies. The large-headed Ophirian sat in his wallow and accepted the food offered him with long, leathery fingers. He crunched noisily. Once he turned to stare at them briefly with great, owl eyes. Eleven avatars turned simultaneously to stare. It was like looking into a multiple mirror. "They sense us," Joseph said, "but they can't see us. Come on." From nearby, the pipes were even more awe-inspiring. Besides the massive old towers there were smaller ones in every stage of development. It was incredible to think that they were actually growing; pushing up out of the lake. In one of them a jagged hole, five or six feet in circumference, had been broken at the base. Joseph, with his furry pet under his arm, went to investigate it. A moment later there came a shout from him that brought Wellesley running. "What's the matter?" "Omur went up the pipe," Joseph said, "but you can get him." There were tears in his eyes. Beseeching tears. "We'll see," said Lieutenant Wellesley brusquely. He put his head inside the pipe. A tiny circle of light far above him showed at what an awesome height was the upper rim. The inner surface, however, was very rough, and there were plenty of holds for hands and feet. He could not see Omur; only the circle of light, and around it, blackness. Suppose the damned thing bit him when he tried to rescue it! A faint, moaning sound emanated from the vast funnel, doubtless from the updraft. He found a place for his foot; drew himself up a step; then another. Joseph's white face was staring up at him from below. And suddenly the circle of light was blotted out! like dry leaves in the wind, and a sudden, sharp pain in his temple. Then another at the base of his neck. He fell back and sprang out into the open. The aperture, in an instant, was full of small, needlelike fluttering things. "Stingbats!" Joseph screamed. "Run!" Wellesley fled after him, but he was already beginning to feel a sick, draining weakness. Within a few steps his legs had become rubbery. Joseph was out of sight. Perhaps gone for help. But then Joseph did not know that he had been stung. After a while he came to a small, black pond in his path. He had gotten off the trail. He sank down, there, beneath a fern tree, cursing. He was sure that he was dying, for a numbness, an absence of feeling, had stolen up from his feet and possessed his legs. He essayed a bitter smile. He was more chagrined than afraid, for this was an ignominious way to pass, here in a nameless swamp, alone, not even beset by one worthy enemy. And perhaps when he thought he smiled, he was merely baring his teeth in that manner that certain neurotoxins leave their corpses always... Someone was shaking him brutally and insistently, and someone was repeating his name, over and over. He knew the voice at once, for it had been lately in his thoughts. "Get up!" she said. "I can't." "You must -- or die. (Jet up now and try to walk. Come, I'll help you." She did help him, and with her support he managed to get to his knees and then to his feet. He walked. Afterward, there was a kind of delirium. He remembered bitter tasting capsules which she made him swallow later on in the daubhut, but he did not recall having arrived there. He only knew that it was pleasant to have her cool hands on his forehead. The hands seemed to fill a vast, fundamental need. And this was out-of-character for Lieutenant Wellesley. After a w r hile he was lucid, and was surprised to note that, as at their other meeting, the darkness was absolute. "It's night," he said. "Very dark." "Yes." "Give me your hand." He held it for a time in both his own. It was a firm, capable hand with long, tapering fingers. "Believe that I am grateful," Wellesley said, "even though I must be grateful to a benefactor whom I have yet to see for the first time. Let me look at you. I cannot command you to tell me who you are, as an officer of the Rift constabulary, but I ask it as your friend." "You ask the impossible," she said. "The worst is over for you, but there may be still another shock to come. You must stay here until you are stronger, and then I will help you escape. Now I had better go, before -- before I am missed." He heard her retreating footsteps and the closing of the door. Escape from what ? he wondered vaguely. The poison, or the antidote seemed to have brought about some curious psychological change in him. He could not think with the old, clear incisiveness. The drive was gone, the purposefulness of his mission to Ophir. He was like Samson shorn -- or a man taken with void amentia whose mind becomes as a child's. And it was so dark. A horrible suspicion arose in his mind. He searched for, and found the torch that was in his kit. He turned it on. Nothing happened. No beam of light shot out to illuminate the ceiling. He clicked the switch several times, then held the lens against his cheek. It was warm, all right. He was stone blind. learned in the physiological sciences. He guessed that the blindness might be temporary -- a result of neural shock, but that was scant consolation. Now it seemed to him that since his arrival an invisible pattern of ill-will had been forming up around him. An ugly something lurking beneath the sullen surface of this strange village. A malignant force, beyond doubt, that well knew his true mission on Ophir. Now he was helpless, incapable of concerted action. He could not even retreat, but only lie and listen and wait. Now it was their move. The terrors of the blind were apt to be blind terrors indeed. The sounds were not long in beginning. At first an indistinct murmur. Then something -- or someone -- scampered swiftly past his door. He got up and locked it; then lay back, spent by the exertion. Presently the running and scampering began in earnest. And a hissing and squealing such as might have emanated from all the fiends in Hell. Once there came .a scratching at the door. An hour passed like a century. The sounds had gradually died away into an absolute silence that was much worse. He waited. There came a knock at the door. He sat up quickly. "Who is it?" "It's me -- Joseph " He unlocked the door and the boy came in with light, eager tread. "You all right?" he said. "Yes -- yes, I'm all right. But I can't see. Tell me, what time is it?" "It's nearly morning." "Thank God! Now listen carefully. Do you know what a strategic withdrawal is?" "Sure, everybody knows that. Every spaceman, I mean." "Good. It is time for me to withdraw to my patrol monitor in space and make a radio report. Will you guide me to the rocket? There may be danger." "I'm not afraid," Joseph said. "Come on, I know a short cut." Wellesley slung his space kit over his shoulder and followed, with his hand on Joseph's collar. They went out into the night air which smelled fresh and clean after the daub-hut, and revived him a little. At first he walked easily, for the ground was level, but after a minute or two the growth became heavy underfoot, causing him to stumble, and reeds were whipping against his face. Presently they halted. "Why have we stopped?" Wellesley asked. "Here we are," Joseph said. "We couldn't have gotten there in such a short time. Not even by a short cut." "Put your hand out before you," Joseph commanded. "You'll see. I guess we can blast off any time." There was a sound of feet, scrambling up a steel ladder. A moment later he could hear Joseph's voice from inside, echoing hollowly. He put his hand out and touched the ladder. The rungs were flaked with heavy rust beneath his finger. "This is not my rocket!" "It's my rocket," said Joseph's disembodied voice, from somewhere above his head. Wellesley cursed him. "It's the fastest ship in the universe," Joseph said. " Where you going?" Black anger possessed him, but the keen instinct of orientation common to men who have lived in interstellar space worked for his salvation. He might have blundered into the swamp, but he did not. Instead he came up, after a terrible half-hour, against the wall of a building which, by its immense extent, could only have been the warehouse. He moved along its sheer, featureless side until he came to a door, which reoriented him, then struck out in the direction that he guessed the daub-hut to be. He bumped against it at last, located its door, flung himself in and thankfully bolted it behind him. But he was not alone. She was there, waiting for him. He started when she spoke. "Where have you been?" she breathed. "I have been terrified. I found the hut empty and I was sure that you were dead." "Like a bad penny," he said, "I return. But your being here is good fortune. I am certain that you will consent to leading a blind man to his ship without resorting to childish trickery. In fact, I shall make sure of it." "Not now," she said. "It is too dangerous. We could never get through the swamp. Besides, you must still be weak from the effects of the poison. Let us wait until morning." He seized her wrists and squeezed. "You're hurting me!" she cried. "Then waste no time. And if you try to break way, or lead me into a trap, I'll snap your wrist like a straw!" He dragged her to the door. "Through the village is best," she said. "They are sure to see us, but in the open we may be able to outrun them." "Who is sure to see us?" "Never mind that now. Follow me! Their flight had a father dreamlike quality because nothing impeded them, even beyond the village. Miraculously she seemed to guide him where no underbrush or tangling grasses caught his feet, so that not once did he fall. "There it is, just ahead," she said. "The rocket tubes appear to have sunk into the mud two or three feet, though. Do you think you will be able to take off?" "It will not matter in the least," he said. "But tell me, is it still dark?" "Yes." "Quite dark?" "Very dark," she said. "That's all I wanted to know. Open the airlock and climb up. I'll follow." Once aboard, he found the controls and set them for take-off. Then he pressed a small button. The port began to swing shut. He heard her run toward it, but he caught her and held her until the heavy hatch had banged shut with a hiss of escaping air. "Let me go," she whimpered. "What are you going to do to me?" "You are under civil arrest," he said harshly. "But I haven't done anything. I have helped you." "Of course. But you forget that I represent law -- not justice. Once I told you that I could be ruthless. You see, whoever you are, you are what I came here to find. I have suspected all along; now I am certain." "What do you mean?" "You brought me here without losing the way. Then, from a hundred feet away you saw that this rocket tender had settled two feet into mud. All this in absolute darkness, That must mean that you have night sight -- like the natives, a sure sign of abnormality. Besides that, you have consistently avoided me in daylight. Meaning that I must not get a glimpse of you, even though you were able to see me quite well. You were the reason for rid of me before I found out about you. Joseph, the normal child, was used as a decoy to mislead me. But Joseph's sister was a mutant." She fell to the deck, sobbing, as he throttled full power for the blast-off. small, grey-green globe in the vastness of black space and set an automatic course for the mother ship, where he intended to submit a detailed report by radio to Regional Headquarters on Rigel Twelve. So far as he was concerned, the case was closed, once they were aboard the patrol ship, but it was three weeks to the vicinity of Rigel, and in that time a curious sequel had developed. The girl (her name turned out to be Laura) had stopped crying, and had begun to take an interest in life once more. In fact, he sensed that she was studying him a great deal of late. They were standing before the viewport, she looking at the great angry mass of Rigel, magnified in the glass, but actually still two days ahead, he listening to every sound aboard the huge ship as he had learned to listen since the darkness closed in on Ophir. She spoke. "How will it be on Rigel Twelve? Will I ever see you again?" "Will you care?" he said. "Perhaps I ought to hate you, but it is only because you are blind that you can not understand. On Ophir I was not happy, but at least it was home. Out there they may laugh at me. It is exciting and wonderful, but terrifying." "They will not laugh at you. You will be allowed to live on any approved planet that you wish, and choose your own profession. You will be trained at the expense of the Empire. And in a few years you may be allowed to visit your father and brother on Ophir. Only visit , I mean. Does that sound so bad?" "But if they laugh -- " "I am not laughing," said Wellesley, with a strange lump in his throat. "You might if you could see me. I'm too dark. My eyes are too big. My ears are too small." "I can see you," he said. "Is it true!" She clasped his shoulders. "But when -- how long?" "Since this morning, a little. The effect of the venom is passing. Now I can see you perfectly, and you are beautiful. Strange, and -- and beautiful." And she was. "Do not go to Rigel Twelve. Stay with me," he said. (It was Wellesley's misfortune that he always sounded like a policeman making an arrest, but she kissed him anyway.) And he thought what a fool troubles of his own. It was the evening after Wellesley had taken dreaded the coming night, as he always did, and had fortified himself against it. He was drunk, but not drunk enough. The warehouse was locked for the day. He was walking toward the house, lurching a little, and mumbling curses as he did so. Then he spied Joseph. Joseph, a small figure in the dusk, had just climbed out of the rusty old peak-tank at the edge of the swamp. He had furnished it with a bunk, as befit a well-found spaceship, and often slept there. The fact was that he had been sleeping there all day, having been up all night. Joseph did not go to school. He yawned and stretched. house, and started to shut the door behind him, but Joseph, coming up behind him, pushed it open and came in. He was breathing hard, having hurried to catch up with his father. He asked : "What about the spaceman ?" "What about him?" "Was he lost in the swamp?" "Where did you get that idea?" off before you were up this mom ing, just before dawn." "I was up," Joseph said. "I thought it was a meteorite. Damn!" He stamped his small foot. went with him." Joseph's face whitened. "Laura? Damn him! Damn her too." "You always hated her," said his pocket and sucking it. "She was too normal for you to stomach, I guess." "I would've got him if he hadn't run away like a yellow dog," Joseph said. "The stingbats would have done it if she hadn't interfered. And then this morning I had him, too." He was thoughtful for a moment. "Who do you suppose tipped him off?" And he watched his father's pasty face. "Who?" "All right," Joseph hissed. "I'll get you for that. You wanted to get rid of me, I'll bet. But you got rid of her instead." inside, because this was almost as good as getting rid of Joseph, having Laura out of his clutches at last. "Me and my crew will fix you for that," Joseph said bitterly. And with that, his avatars came crowding in behind him, squat, powerful and ugly, their saucer He had been through it several times before, but this time he screamed a little bit before it was over. He could not get away from Joseph, of course. There was too many of him.    IF you are a regular reader of IF and would like to complete your collection with copies of issues missed or lost -- just send #c for each copy ordered and we will mail them to you post haste. Nearly all back issues are available in limited quantities. Write to Circulation Department, IF Magazine, Kingston, New York. ( Continued from page # ) E stablishing a satellite in its orbit is an extremely critical operation, which if improperly carried out could result in an orbit so eccentric that even though the satellite had the correct orbital velocity, it could re-enter the earth's atmosphere in less than one revolution around the earth. This of course, would result in its destruction. In fact, there are an infinite number of orbital paths possible depending on the attitude of the rocket while it is achieving its orbital velocity. Common sense therefore dictates that it be possible to make corrections in its course after it has arrived at the proper altitude. It seems likely that if an instrumented third stage is used as the Satellite, the control and sequencing mechanism for all three stages will be carried in the third stage. This will include, besides a stabilized platform which acts as a point of reference for the guidance system, an integrating accelerometer. This device integrates the acceleration achieved by each stage, so that after a predetermined amount of velocity has been gained, the fuel is shut off and the stage is dropped. This is extremely important in order that the final stage will arrive at maximum altitude with the proper orbital velocity. As each stage is exhausted, it is dropped and the control will be transferred to the next higher stage which will then carry on through its programmed flight until it has contributed its part to the altitude velocityattitude picture. It would be of great advantage if the Stage enough fuel left in its tanks so that observers on the ground could use its radio receiver to make minor adjustments in its course and velocity. It would then be possible to more nearly approach an optimum orbit, which would prolong the satellite's stay in space. It is possible that Stage I, which will be a huge and costly affair, might be recovered by parachute; since it will be spent at an altitude of somewhere between ten and twenty miles. Stage II, however, will go so high and attain such velocity that frictional heat developed as it re-enters the atmosphere will destroy it. As announced, the three stage rocket will be launched at the Government's long distance rocket proving grounds on the Florida coast. This location will provide a good # miles of practically unobstructed ocean for the spent rockets to fall into, as well as a number of strategically placed islands which are already equipped with the instrumentation for tracking long distance military rockets. It is practically impossible to do more than briefly touch on the immense technical complexities involved in getting such a small unmanned vehicle into space even temporarily. However, the second article, which will appear in the next issue of IF, will discuss in considerable detail the probable makeup of the third-stage Satellite Vehicle itself, as well as instrumentation of monitor stations.    Alarms plan might save the race from extinction -- but he was the clan's only husband and had to be protected from his own folly... out, Alan had been sitting with some twenty young people of the Wolf clan in a grove of aspen approximately half way between the fields and the citadel on the hilltop. He had been teaching them myth-legend and, as usual, the girls were bored and unbelieving, the boys open mouthed. He realized, even as he spoke, diat the telling had changed even since his own youth. As a boy of ten, before it was definitely known whether or not he was a sterilie, he had sat at the feet of the Turtle clan's husband as open mouthed as those who sat at his feet now. But the telling was different. Now, had he spoken openly of when men bore weapons and women lived at home with the children, he would have crossed the boundaries of decency. It hadn't been so in his own youth, but then, when he was a boy, they had been one Illustrated, by Ed Emsh generation nearer to the old days, which weren't so far back after all. Helen complained, "This is so silly, Alan. Why don't you tell us something about... well, about hunting, or true fighting?" He looked at her. Gould this be a daughter of his? Tall for her fourteen years and straight, clear of eye, aggressive and brooking of no nonsense. The old books told of the femininity of women, but... The shots went bang , bang, bang, from below, faint in the half mile or more of distance. And then bang, bang again and several booms from the new muzzle loading muskets. Helen was on her feet first, her eyes flashing. Instantly she was in command. "Alan," she snapped. "Quick, to the citadel. All of you boys, hurry! To the citadel!" She whirled to her older classmates. "Ruth, Margo, Jenny, Paula. Get stones, sharp stones. You younger girls go with Alan. See if you can help at the citadel. We'll come last. Hurry Alan." Alan was already off, herding the boys before him. Possibly all of them were sterilies and so wouldn't count. But you never knew. As they climbed the hill, he looked back over his shoulder. Down in the fields he could see the workers scattering for their weapons and for cover. One stumbled and was down. In the distance he couldn't make out whether she had fallen accidentally or been wounded. Further beyond the fields he could see the smoke from a half dozen or more places where the shots had originated. It didn't seem to be an attack in force. Not far up the hill from the field workers, on a overhanging boulder in a lookout position, he could make out Vivian, the scout chief. She sat, seemingly in unconcerned ease, one elbow supported on a knee as her telescoped rifle went crack, cracky crack. If he knew Vivian there was more than one casualty among the raiders. Who could it be this time? Deer from the south, Coyote or Horse from the east? Possibly Eagles, Crows or Dogs from Denver way. The clan couldn't stand much more of this pressure. It was the third raid in six months. They couldn't stand it and put in a crop, nor could the drain on the arsenal be maintained. He had heard that the Turtle clan, near Colorado Springs, the clan of his birth, had got to the point where they were using bows and arrows even for defense. If so, it wouldn't be long before they would be losing their husband. He was puffing somewhat by the time they reached the citadel. Helen and her four girls were coming much more slowly, watching the progress of the fight below them, keeping their eyes peeled for a possible break through of individual enemies. The stones in their hands were pathetically brave. The rounded citadel building, stone built, loopholed for rifles, loomed before them. He swung open the door and hurried inside. "Hello, honey," a strange voice said pseudo-pleasantly. "Hey, you're kind of cute." Alan's eyes went from the two figures before him, automatic rifles cuddled under their arms, to the two Wolf clan sentries collapsed in their own blood on the floor. They had paid for lack of vigilance with their lives. He could see that the strangers were of different clans by their kilts, one a Horse the other a Crow. This would mean two clans had united in order to raid the Wolves and that, in turn, would mean the Wolves were outnumbered as much as two to one. "Relax, darling," the second one said, a lewd quality in her voice. "Nothing's going to happen to you." Her eyes took in the dozen boys ranging in age from five to twelve. "Look like a bunch of sterilies to me," she sneered. "Get them up above, and those girls too. You stay here where we can watch you, honey." The Crow went to a small window, stared down below. "Wanda is holding them pretty well but they're beginning to work their way back in this direction." She laughed harshly. "These Wolves never could fight." Her companion fingered the Bren gun which lay on the heavy table top in the round room's center. Aside from four equally heavily constructed chairs the table was the large room's sole furniture. While Alan was ushering the boys and younger girls up to the second floor where they would be safe, the Horse said musingly, "We could turn this loose on them even at this distance." The crow shook her head. "No. It'll be better to wait until they're closer. Besides, by that time Peggy and her group'll be coming up from the arroyo. There won't be a Wolf left half an hour from now." Alan, his stomach empty, stared out the loophole nearest him. One of the women said, grinning, "You better get away from there, honey. Make you sick. That's a mighty pretty suit you've got on. Make it yourself?" "No," Alan said. As a matter of fact one of the sterilies had made it. She laughed. "Well, don't be so uppity. You're going to have to learn how to be nice to me, you know." Both of them laughed, but Alan said nothing. He wondered how long the women of these clans had been without a husband. Down below he could make out the progress of the fighting and then realized the battle plan of the aggressors. They must have planned it for months, waiting until the season was such that practically the whole Wolf clan, and particularly the fighters, would be at work in the fields. They'd sent these two scouts, probably their best warriors, to take the citadel by stealth. Only two of them, more would have been conspicuous. They had then, with a limited force, opened fire on the field workers, pinning them down temporarily. Meanwhile, the main body was ascending the arroyo to the left, completely hidden from the defending forces although they would have been in open sight from above had the citadel remained uncaptured. Alan could see plainly what the next fifteen minutes would mean. The Wolf clan would draw back on the citadel, Vivian and her younger warriors bringing up the rear. When they broke into the clear and started the last dash for the safety of their fortress, they would be in the open and at the mercy of the crossfire from arroyo and citadel. If only these two had failed in their attempt to... The Crow woman said, "Look at this. Five young brats with stones in their hands. What do you say?" It was Helen and her four girls. Alan said, "They're only children! You can't... "You be quiet, sweetheart. We can't be bothered with you." The Horse said, "Two years from now they'll all be warriors. Here, let me turn this on them." Alan closed his eyes and he wanted to retch as he heard the automatic rifle speak out in five short bursts. In spite of himself he opened them again. Helen, his first born, Paula, his second. Ruth, Margo and Jenny, all his children. They were crumbled like rag dolls, fifty feet from the citadel door. Now he was able to tell himself that he should have called out a warning. One or two of them, at least, might have escaped. Might have escaped to warn the approaching fighters of the trap behind them. Tradition had been too strong within him, the tradition that a man did not interfere in the business of the warriors, that war was a thing apart. Jenny's body moved, stirred again, and she tried to drag herself away. Little Jenny, twelve years old. The rifle spat just once again and she slumped forward and remained quiet. "Little bitch," the Crow woman said. The heavy chair was in his hands and high above his head, he had brought it down on her before the rage of his hate had allowed him to think of what he was doing. The chair splintered but there was still a good half of it in his hands when he spun on the Horse woman. She stepped back, her eyes wide in disbelief. As her companion went down, the side of her face and her scalp welling blood, the Horse at first brought up her rifle and then, in despair, tried to reverse it to use its butt as a club. She was stumbling backward, trying to get out of the way of his improvised weapon, when her heel caught on the body of one of the fallen Wolf sentries. She tried to catch herself, her eyes still staring horrified disbelief, even as he caught her over the head, and then once again. He beat her, beat her hysterically, until he knew she must be dead. He worked now in a mental vacuum, all but unconsciously. He ran to the stair bottom and called, "Come down," his voice was shrill. "Alice, Tommy, all of you." when they saw the shambles of the room stared at him with as #  much disbelief as had the enemy women. He pointed a finger at the oldest of the girls. "Alice," he said, "you've been given instruction by the warriors. How is the Bren gun fired?" The eleven year old bug eyed at him. "But you're a husband, Alan ." "How is it fired?" he shrilled. "Unless you tell me, there will be no Wolf clan left!" He lugged the heavy gun to the window, mounted it there as he had seen the women do in practice. "Tommy," he said to a thirteen year old boy. "Quick, get me a pan of ammunition." "I can't," Tommy all but wailed. "Get it!" "I can t. It's... it's unmanly !" Tommy melted into a sea of tears, utterly confused. "Maureen," Alan snapped, cooler now. "Get me a pan of ammunition for the Bren gun. Quickly. Alice, show me how the gun is charged." Alice was at his side, trying to explain. He would have let her take over had she been larger, but he knew she couldn't handle the bucking of the weapon. Maureen had returned with the ammunition, slipped it expertly into place. She too had had instructions in the gun's operation. Alan ran his eyes down the arroyo. There were possibly forty of them, Horses and Crows -- well armed, he could see. Less than a quarter of them had the new muzzle loaders being resorted to by many as ammunition stocks for the old arms became increasingly rare. The others had ancient arms, rifles, both military and sport, one or two tommy guns. He waited another three or four minutes, one eye cocked on the progress of the running battle below. Vivian, the scout chief, had dropped back to take over command of the younger warriors. She was probably beginning to smell a rat. The intensity of fire wasn't such as to suggest a large body of enemy. The women in the arroyo were placed now as he wanted them. He forced himself to keep his eyes open as he pressed the trigger. Blat, blat, blat . The gun spoke, kicking high the dust and gravel before the Horse and Crow warriors advancing up the arroyo. They stopped, startled. The citadel was supposedly in their hands. They reversed themselves and scurried back to get out of their exposed position. He touched the trigger again. Blat , blat, blat. The heavy slugs tore up the arroyo wall behind them, they could retreat no further without running into his fire. They stopped, confused. Alan said, "Maureen, get another pan of ammunition. I'll have to hold them there until Vivian comes up. Alice, run down to the matriarch and tell her about the warriors in the arroyo. Quickly, now." Little Alice said sourly, "A husband shouldn't interfere in warrior affairs," but she went. When Vivian strode into the citadel she had her sniper rifle slung over her back and was admiring a tommy gun she had taken from one of the captured Horses. "Perfect," she said, stroking the stock. "Perfect shape. And they seem to have worlds of ammunition too. Must have made some kind of deal with the Denver clans." Her eyes swept the room and her mouth turned down in sour amusement. The Horse woman was dead and the Crow had by no,w been marched off to take her place with the other prisoners who were being held in the stone corral. "What warriors," she said contemptuously. "A man overcomes two of them. Two of them, mind you." She looked at Alan, the reaction was upon his now and he was white faced and couldn't keep his hands from trembling. "What a cutie you turned out to be. Who ever heard of such a thing?" Alan said, defensively, "They didn't expect it. I took them unawares." Vivian laughed aloud, her even white teeth sparkling in the redness of her lips. She was tall, shapely, a twenty-five year old goddess in her Wolf clan kilts. "I'll bet you did, sweetie." One of the other warriors entered from behind Vivian, looked at the dead Horse . woman and shuddered. "What a way to die, not even able to defend yourself." She said to Vivian worriedly, "They've got an awful lot of equipment, chief." Vivian said, "Well, what're you worrying about, Jean? We have it now." The girl said, "They have three tommy guns, four automatic rifles, twenty grenades and forty sticks of dynamite." Vivian was impatient. "They had them, now they're ours. It's good, not bad." Jean said doggedly, "These raids are coming more and more often. We've lost ten fighters in less than a year. And each time they come at us they're better equipped and there're more of them." She looked over at Alan. "If it hadn't been for this... this queer way things worked out, they'd have our husband now and we'd be done for." "Well, it didn't happen that way," Vivian said abruptly, "and we still have our husband and we're going to keep him. This wasn't a bad action at all. They killed three of us, we've got more than forty of them." "Not three, eight," Jean said. "You forget the five girls. In another couple of years they'd have been warriors. And besides, what difference does it make if we've got forty of them? There're always more of them where they came from. There must be a thousand women toward Denver without a husband between them." Vivian quieted. "Let's hope they don't all decide on Alan at once," she said. "I wonder if the Turtles are having the same trouble." "They're having more," Alan said. He had lowered himself wearily into one of the chairs. The two warriors looked at him. "How do you know, sweetie?" Vivian asked him. "I was talking to Warren, a few weeks ago. He's husband of the Turtle clan now, they traded him from the Foxes. Both clans were getting too interbred..." "Get to the point, honey," Jean said, embarrassed at this man talk. "The Turtles are having more trouble than we are. They have a stronger natural fortress at the center of their farm lands, but they've had so many raids that their arsenal is depleted and half their warriors dead or wounded. They're getting desperate." "That's too bad," Vivian muttered. "They make good neighbors." Jean said, "The matriarch told me to let you know there'd be a meeting this afternoon in the assembly hall. Clan meeting, all present." "What about?" Vivian said, her attention going back to the beauty of her captured weapon again. "About the prisoners. We've got to decide what to do with them." "Do with them? We'll push them over the side of the canyon. Nobody thought we'd waste bullets on them did they?" Alan said, mildly, "The question has come up whether we ought to destroy them at all." Vivian looked at him in gentle annoyance. "Sweetie," she said, "don't bother your handsome head with these things. You've had enough excitement to last a nice looking fellow like you a lifetime." Jean said, echoing her chief's disgust, "Anyway, that's what the meeting is about. Alan, here, has been talking to the matriarch and she's agreed to bring it up for discussion." Vivian said nastily, "Sally is beginning to lose her grip. If there's anything a clan needs it's a strong matriarch." "A wise matriarch," Alan amended, knowing he shouldn't. Vivian stared at him for a moment, then threw her head back and laughed. "I'm going to have to spank your bottom one of these days," she told him. "You get awfully sassy for a man." voice but not a vote in the meetings of the Wolf clan. He sometimes wondered at the institution which had come down from pre-bomb days. Why was it necessary to have a chairman. Of course, myth-legend had it that men were once just as numerous and active in society's economic (and even martial!) life as were women. But that was myth-legend. It all had a basis in reality, perhaps, but some of it was undoubtedly stretched all but to the breaking point. Of course if all men had been fertile in the old days. But if you started with if, as a beginning point, you could go as far as you wished in any direction. He called the meeting to order in the assembly hall which stood possibly a hundred feet below the citadel in one direction, another hundred from the stone corral which housed their prisoners, in the other. The Wolf clan was present in its entirety with the exception of children under ten and except for four scouts who were holding the prisoners. As chairman, Alan sat on the dais flanked by Sally, the matriarch, # years of age, tall, Junoesque, on one side and by Vivian the scout chief, on the other. Before them sat, first, the active warrior-workers, some thirty-five of them. Second, the older women, less than a score. Further back were the sterilies, possibly twenty of these and quite young, only within recent memory had they been allowed to become part of the clan, in the past they had been driven away or killed. Further back still were the children above ten but too young to join the ranks of either warriorworkers or sterilies. Alan called the meeting to order, quieted them somewhat and then invited the matriarch to take the floor. Sally stood and looked out over her clan, the dignity of her presence silencing them where Alan's plea had not. She said, "We have two matters to bring to our attention. First, I believe the clan should make it clear to Alan, our husband, that such interference in the affairs of women is utterly out of the question. I am speaking of his unmanly activities in the raid this morning." There were mumblings of approval throughout the hall. Alan came to his feet, his face bewildered. "But, Sally, what else could I do? If I hadn't overcome the enemy warriors and turned the Bren gun on the others you would all be gone now. Possibly none of you would have survived." Sally quieted him with a chill look. "Let me repeat what is well known to every member of the clan. We consist of less than sixty women, a few more than thirty-five of whom are active. There are twenty sterilies and twenty-five or so children. And one husband. A few more than one hundred in all." Her voice slowed and lowered for the sake of emphasis. "All of our women -- except for two or three -- might die and the clan would live on. The sterilies certainly might all die, and the clan live on. Even the children could all die and the clan live on. But if our husband dies, the clan dies . The greatest responsibility of every member of any clan is to protect the husband. Under no circumstances is he to be endangered. You know this, it should not have to be brought to your attention." There was a strong murmur of assent from those seated before them. Alan said, "But, Sally, I saved your lives! And if I hadn't, I would have been captured by the Crows and Horses and you would have lost me at any rate." This was hard for Sally Wolf, but she said, "Then, at least, they would have had you. If you had died, in your foolhardiness, you would have been gone for all of us. Alan, two clans, husbandless clans, united in this attempt to capture you from us. While we fought to protect our husband, the life of our clan, we hold no rancor against them. In their position, we would have done the same. Much rather would we see you taken by them, than to see you dead. Even though the Wolf clan might die, the race must go on." She added, but not very believably, "If they had captured you, perhaps we could have, in our turn, captured a husband from some other clan." "The reason we probably couldn't," Vivian said mildly, "is that since we've turned to agriculture and settled, our numbers have dropped off by half. We had more than sixty warriors while we were hunter-foragers." "That's enough, Vivian," Sally snapped. "The question isn't being discussed this afternoon." "Ought to be," somebody whispered down in front. "Order," Alan said. He knew it was a growing belief in the clan that giving up the nomadic life had been a mistake. From raiders, they had become the raided. Sally said, "The second order of business is the disposal of the Horse and Crow prisoners captured in the action today." Vivian said, "We can't afford to waste valuable ammunition. I say shove them into the canyon. Most of those seated in the hall approved of that. Some were puzzled of face, wondering why the matter hadn't been left simply in the scout chief's hands. Sally said, dryly, "I haven't formed an opinion myself. However, our chairman has some words to say." Vivian looked at Alan as though he was a precocious child. She shook her head. "You cutie, you. You're getting bigger and bigger for your britches every day." Two or three of the warriors echoed her by chuckling fondly. Alan said nothing to that, needing to maintain what dignity and prestige he could muster. He stood and faced them and waited for their silence before saying, "You feminine members of the clan are too busy with work and with defense to pursue some of the studies for which we men find time." Vivian murmured, "You ain't just a whistlin', honey. But we don't mind. You do what you want with your time, honey." He tried to smile politely, but went on. "It has come to the point where few women read to any extent and most learning has fallen into the hands of the men -- few as we are." Sally said impatiently, "What has this got to do with the prisoners, Alan dear?" It would seem that he had ignored her when he said, "I have been discussing the matter with Warren of the Turtle clan and two or three other men with whom I occasionally come in contact. At the rate the race is going, there will be no men left at all in another few generations." There was quiet in the long hall. Deathly quiet. Sally said, "How... how do you mean, dear?" "I mean our present system can't go on. It isn't working." "Of course it's working," Vivian snapped. "Here we are aren't we? It's always worked, it always will. Here's the clan. You're our hus- band. After we've had you for twenty years, we'll trade you to another clan for their husband -- prevents interbreeding. If you have a fertile son, the clan will either split, each half taking one husband, or we'll trade him off for land, or guns, or whatever else is valuable. Of course, it works." He shook his head, stubbornly. "Things are changing. For a generation or two after bomb day, we were in chaos. By time things cleared we were divided as we are now, in clans. However, we were still largely able to exist on the canned goods, the animals, left over from the old days. There was food and guns for all and only a few of the men were sterilies." Vivian began to say something again, but he shook a hand negatively at her, pleading for silence. "No, I'm not talking about mythlegend now. Warren's great-grandfather, whom he knew as a boy, remembers when there were four times or more the number of men we have today and when the sterilies were very few." # -- Water. # -- Nitrogen. # -- Polarized. # -- Sublimation. # -- #J#. #I -- All higher complex numbers. # -- Gamma. # -- #. # -- Polymerization. # -- Increases. # -- Meson. # -- Stone. # -- #-#. # -- Alpha. # -- #. Vivian said impatiently, "What's this got to do with the prisoners? There they are. We can kill them or let them go. If we let them go, they'll be coming back, six months from now, to take another crack at us. Alan is cute as a button, but I don't think he should meddle in women's affairs." But most of them were silent. They looked up at him, waiting for him to go on. "I suppose," Sally said, "that you're coming to a point, dear?" He nodded, his face tight. "I'm coming to the point. The point is that we've got to change the basis of clan society. This isn't working any more -- if it ever did. There's such a thing as planned breeding... it had been hard to say this, and the younger women in the audience, in particular, tittered... and we're going to have to think in terms of it." Sally had flushed. She said now, "A certain dignity is expected at a clan meeting, Alan dear. But just what did you mean?" Vivian said, "This is nonsense, I'm leaving," and she was up from the speaker's table and away. Two or three of her younger girls looked after, scowling, but they didn't follow her out of the hall. "I mean," Alan said doggedly, "that one of those Crow women has been the mother of two fertile men. To my knowledge she is the only woman within hundreds of miles this can be said about. We men have been keeping records of such things." Sally was as mystified as the rest of the clan.  Alan said, "I say bring these women into the clan. Unite with the Turtles and the Burros so that we'll have three clans, five counting the Horses and Crows. Then we'll have enough strength to fight off the forager-hunters, and we'll have enough men to experiment in selective breeding." Half of the hall was on its feet in a roar. "Share you with these...  these desert rats who just raided us, who killed eight of our clan?" Sally snapped, flabbergasted. He stood his ground. "Yes. I'll repeat, one of those Crow women has bonie two fertile men children. We can't afford to kill her. For all we know, she might have a dozen more. This haphazard method of a single husband for a whole clan must be replaced..." The hall broke down into chaos again. Sally held up a commanding hand for silence. She said, "And if we share you with another forty or fifty women, to what extent will the rest of us have any husband at all?" He pointed out the sterilies, seated silently in the back. "It would be healthier if you gave up some of this superior contempt you hold for sterile males and accept their companionship. Although they cannot be fathers, they can be mates otherwise. As it is, how much true companionship do you secure from me -- any of you? Less than once a month do you see me more than from a distance." "Mate with sterilies?" someone gasped from the front row. "Yes," Alan snapped back. "And let fertile men be used expressly for attempting to produce additional fertile men. Confound it, can't you warriors realize what I'm saying? I have reports that there is a woman among the Crows who has borne two fertile male children. Have you ever heard of any such phenomenon before? Do you realize that in the fifteen years I have been the husband of this clan, we have not had even one fertile man child bom? Do you realize that in the past twenty years there has been bom not one fertile man child in the Turtle clan? Only one in the Burro clan?" He had them in the palm of his hand now. "What -- what does the Turtle clan think of this plan of yours?" Sally said. "I was talking to Warren just the other day. He thinks he can win their approval. We can also probably talk the Burros into it. They're growing desperate. Their husband is nearly sixty years old and has produced only one fertile male child, which was later captured in a raid by the Denver foragers." Sally said, "And we'd have to share you with all these, and with our prisoners as well?" "Yes, in an attempt to breed fertile men back into the race." Sally turned to the assembled clan. A heavy explosion, room-shaking in its violence, all but threw them to the floor. Half a dozen of the younger warriors scurried to the windows, guns at the ready. In the distance, from the outside, there was the chatter of a machine gun, then individual pistol shots. "The corral," Jean the scout said, her lips going back over her teeth. Vivian came sauntering back into the assembly hall, patting the stock of her new tommy gun appreciately. "Works like a charm," she said. "That dynamite we captured was fresh too. Blew 'em to smithereens. Only had to finish off half a dozen." Alan said, agonizingly, "Vivian! You didn't... the prisoners?" She grinned at him. "Alan, you're as cute as a button, but you don't know anything about women's affairs. Now you be a honey and go back to taking care of the children." the master of his heredity through genetics -- and that the goal will be the psi mind . But what happens when a laboratory on the scale of life itself is set up to carry out the idea ? What is the ultimate end when aliens force Man to toss off the drag of orthodoxy and dogma and face new horizons? teresting answers -- and exciting reading. Don't miss it in the August issue of IF... Ask your newsdealer to reserve your copy Now! With a new cast nightly, it was the best show in town. Gay crowds mobbed the box office for tickets; but few went back more than twice... unreconstructed part of town. No buses ran out here, and the only way that Stan and Julie could reach the court was on foot, threading their way through the debris of neglect and vandalism that littered the narrow streets. This was a part of New York that Julie had never seen. Twentieth century tenements, dimly illuminated by ancient incandescent lamps, lined the rubble-filled streets, where garbage and the de caying carcasses of poisoned rats lay stinking in the gutters. The night was warm, but Julie shivered. She hurried along at Stan's side, Illustrated by Paul Orban trying to hold her breath to shut out the unpleasant smells. They stopped at the edge of the sidewalk across the street from the court and watched a crowd of peoanxiously pressing to the box office to try to get hard-to-get tickets. "Look at that mob!" Julie said. "We'll never get in!" She tried to sound disappointed, but she knew that she could not hide her feeling of relief. She didn't want to go in. She wanted to go away, back to the clean, pretty city she knew. Stan smiled and patted her hand. "You underestimate me, honey. Little Stanley knows how to take care of himself. I knew there'd be a crowd tonight, so..." He drew two tickets from his pocket. "If you don't reserve 'em, you don't deserve 'em, I always say!" He took her hand, and they started across the street toward the courthouse. It was a bleak, gray, Stone-faced building whose ornate sculptured trim was weather worn and darkened with age. Once an aspiration to architectural beauty, it was pathetically ugly, a melancholy reminder of a bygone and possibly better era. A modem theater marquee had been incongruously added to the old structure and, atop the shiny new addition, huge letters of light Smaller cast aluminum letters protruded upward from the metal rim of the arcing canopy and formed the words of a motto: "Judge not, that ye be not judged". Bold type plastered across the gleaming glass facade of the marquee loudly proLY". Stan and Julie pushed through the congestion outside the entrance of the court. A dizzying confusion Of elbows and backs and sweating, eager faces surrounded them. Stan squeezed through the seething mass of people and, holding tightly to his hand, Julie followed. For the tenth -- or hundredth -- time, she was sorry that she had come. But it was too late to turn back now. Stan showed his tickets to the guard at the door, and they were ushered politely inside where a uniformed woman with a military bearing guided them to their seats. "Your ID cards, please," the young woman said. Julie was startled by the request, and alarmed. A confiscated ID card meant trouble -- police trouble ! "Why?" she asked, nervously, "What did we do?" Stan smiled knowingly. "It's just a formality," he assured her. "They give it back to you when you leave." He handed the usher his card. "And yours, miss?" Hesitantly, Julie took out her wallet. A cold premonition urged her to stop, to leave now, before it was too late. Then she saw Stan's amused eyes grinning at her and she reminded herself that it was already too late for her to leave. She gave the girl her ID card. The usher smiled mechanically. She handed them each a program and hurried away up the aisle. "Don't worry, honey," Stan said, "you'll get it back." He held his program up for her to admire. ' Pretty snazzy, huh?" Julie nodded half-heartedly and silently leafed through her own program. It was a four page souvenir booklet. On the first page, or front cover, was the seal of justice with a perfectly balanced scale and a few words of Latin. Above the seal, black on the slick yellow paper, and below it, the legend "Judge not, that ye be not judged". Beneath the seal, in red italics, was the inscription: "For with what judgment ye judge # ye shall be judged: and with what measure ye mete , it shall be measured to you again . -- Matthew, #:#." The page was set up attractively but, Julie thought, the quotations seemed inappropriate. What was the purpose of the court, if not to judge? "I still can't figure it out," Stan said, as if he had read her thoughts. He reached over and tapped Julie's program with his finger. "This is the third time I've been here, and you can believe me, honey, they both judge and mete out justice in this place!" He grinned at her. "This 'judge not' business doesn't make sense!" Julie said nothing. There was nothing to say. now, and she watched the people slowly filing in. She was fascinated by the looks of anticipatory pleasure in their faces, the whole place tingled with barely repressed excitement. The spectators packed into the room until every seat was taken and they were standing, eight deep, in the rear of the court. Scanning their faces, Julie could feel -- could almost taste -- the many varied emotions that radiated from them: amusement, lust, hatred, curiosity, vengeance. It was a puzzling combination. "Now, this quotation makes some sense," Stan was saying. Julie turned her attention back to him. He had opened his program booklet to the centerfold, and he pointed to an inscription printed across the top of the two inner pages. "An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth," he recited. "That's what this place really stands for!" He said it with relish. Julie began to feel sick. She did not like the hungry look on Stan's face or the merciless atmosphere in the courtroom. Why had she come? She stifled a shudder. She knew why she had come. She had come because Stan wanted her to and, to be honest, because she had been curious to see what the Show was like. Now that she was here, she could not call the whole thing off just because her curiosity was satisfied or because she was too squeamish to enjoy what many people considered the best entertainment in town. She had no right to ruin Stan's evening. She tried to assume a casual interest in the impending events. "What are all these lines for?" she asked weakly, indicating the horizontal lines that crossed the inner pages and were bisected by three vertical lines into four columns of uneven width. "It looks like a ledger." "It is, sort of," Stan said. "Y'see, honey, this is a scorecard. In the first column, you put the name of the accused; in the second, the offense he's charged with; in the third, his plea; and in the fourth, the disposition of the case. Up here," he explained, showing her the appropriate place, "you fill in the name of the presiding magistrate. And here," he continued, "you put in the date. It makes a nice souvenir. If you fill it out right, you can look at it six months from now and remember all the fun, just as if it were happening all over again." "Fun?" Julie's voice cracked. "Sure!" Stan said with enthusiasm. "It's a terrific show! Everyone has a good time. Well, anyhow... and he chuckled, "everyone but the bums!" He laughed. A man in the row in front of them turned around and looked at Julie. Perspiration glistened in an oily film on his round, pudgy moon-face. A lewd grin twisted his mouth. "First timer?" he asked. Stan grinned back at him, sharing a comradeship of common experience. "Yeah. I kept telling her she didn't know what she was missing. Finally convinced her to give it a try. I've been here twice before, myself," he added proudly. "Yeah? Me too!" the man said. "Guess that makes us real old pros: third timers!" He laughed and mopped his face with a crumpled handkerchief. "Damn! it's hot in here!" Mild embarrassment and a violent dislike for the oily-skinned man combined to redden Julie's face in a hot blush. She shifted uncomfortably in her seat. "Y'know, I never thought of it before," Stan said to the man in front, "but now that you mention it, I don't know of anybody who's been here three times." A smile of accomplishment spread onto his face. "I'll bet I'm the first one in my sector!" A growing anger blended into Julie's feeling of disgust. "I don't see that it's anything to be proud of," she said coldly. Stan's laugh was a derisive bray. "She talks just like a first timer, doesn't she?" The man in front of them nodded knowingly, again sharing with Stan the common bond of experience. "The next thing you know," Stan jeered kiddingly, "she'll be preaching to us like one of those crackpot reformers." The revulsion that Julie felt must have been clearly evident now. Stan smiled fondly and put his arm around her shoulder. "I'm only kidding, honey," he half-apologized. "What's so wrong about the reformers?" Julie demanded, angrily shrugging away his arm. "Why shouldn't men be given another chance? What... ?" "Men?" The man with the moon face burst into loud laughter. "Wait'll you see these bums, kid! They're not men, they're things l" "He's right, honey," Stan said. "These joes don't have any homes or jobs or families or friends. They don't even have ID cards." "No ID cards?" That was impossible! But Julie was beginning to learn that many impossible things could happen in a world that most citizens knew nothing about. "Then how can they be expected to get jobs? You've got to have an ID card in order to be assigned..." "That's the general idea, lady," someone nearby said in a loud voice. Several people laughed. "You don't wanna put the court out of business, do ya?" Julie's lips trembled as she opened her mouth to voice the word that shouted emphatically within her: yes! yes! "Here they come!" someone shouted, and excited conversation buzzed throughout the room. Julie's voice was never heard. She stared silently at the people near her, then turned to the front of the room to see what they were all watching so avidly. A straggling line of bedraggled, dirty, unshaven men shuffled into a wire enclosure set along the right wall of the courtroom. Crushed men -- weary, lifeless, resigned to a life without hope -- they filed into the pen and slumped onto the wooden benches that were placed lengthwise in three rows in the oblong cage. Their shoulders drooped in beaten curves. Their heads were bowed. The man in front turned around and nudged Julie's knee. His triumphant smile was an obscenity. "Call those men?" He laughed and winked at Stan, then turned back to the front of the court to watch the preliminary proceedings. An incipient convulsion crawled about in Julie's stomach. Her knee felt cold and clammy where the moon-faced man had touched it. Her skin was prickly and tight. She began to itch. "Get up, honey," Stan was saying. "Here comes the judge." She stood, numbly, her eyes riveted on the men in the wire enclosure. "Julie!" She felt a hand tugging at her arm. "You can sit down now, Julie," Stan said. "Sit down!" Mechanically, she sat down. Woodenly, she stared at the tableau before her -- the judge perched on his elevated throne, the stone-faced attendants at each side of the dais, the wire pen filled with misery. Through the almost tangible excitement and glee of the spectators, the misery reached her, held her. the people of the City of New York against... against an assortment of outcasts -- drunks, derelicts, cripples, beggars -- the "undesirables" that had been rounded up by the police in the past twentyfour hours. The people of the City of New York against a pen full of men whose only crimes, for the most part, were sickness, lack of hope and failure to possess the ID cards which everyone needed and which, somehow, they had been denied. How? Julie wondered. How could anyone not have an ID? Even if you lost your card you could get a new one simply by paying a fine. Even if you had been in prison you got a new card when you were released. You had to have a card! Everyone had to... A court attendant called out: "Garcia, Miguel!" and a small, dark-complexioned man walked out of the detention pen and stood meekly before the judge. The clerk of the court read the charge, rattling it off in the singsong jargon of court clerks, his words slurred together into one almost unintelligible burst of sound. There was a pause, and silence in the courtroom. "Well?" said the magistrate, "how do you plead?" His voice sounded kindly. He sat high on his bench, hunched into his black robe, and looked down with apparent benignancy on the little man who stood silently before him. The audience was hushed. It watched hopefully and waited. Julie could sense the intense excitement in Stan as he leaned forward, straining to catch every detail of the scene, anxious not to miss a thing. She heard a giggle, then Stan's hearty laugh, then a loud burst of laughter. She opened her eyes. The defendant was shrugging his shoulders in bewilderment. He turned half-way around to look at the laughing audience, a sheepish grin on his face. The magistrate smiled his appreciation of the humorous response to his question. "So, you can't make up your mind?" he said in a seemingly friendly and sympathetic way. "Well, I'll tell you what I'll do, Miguel. I'll give you thirty days in the city's hotel to think it over." Laughter and applause filled the room. The judge nodded his head in a little bow of acknowledgement. Miguel Garcia was led away, still smiling, obviously ignorant of what was happening. Miguel Garcia apparently did not understand English. first line of his scorecard. His face was flushed. His eyes were bright. A satisfied smile lingered on his lips. "Stan, let's leave," Julie said. Stan laughed in disbelief. "Are you kidding? The fun's just startmg. "Please, Stan. I... I don't feel well." "Oh? I'm sorry, honey." It was # . a formality, like saying T beg your pardon' to a stranger you bump into in a crowd. There was no concern in Stan's voice. The second case was being presented, and his attention was rapt upon the clerk and the object of the proceedings, an old white haired derelict. "Stan, please!" Julie insisted. "Look, honey," Stan said impatiently, "we can't leave now, even if we wanted to. They don't give back the IDs until after it's all over." A sharp burst of laughter brought his attention abruptly back to the action up front. The old man had dropped his hat and an attendant had kicked it away from him. The white haired castoff shuffled across the room to retrieve it. "I missed something!" Stan said, testily. He turned to his neighbor and was hurriedly filled in on what had happened. "Well, Vm leaving!" Julie said. She got up and edged her way out to the aisle. Stan made no protest. He was concentrating on the performance up front. Julie hurried up the aisle and pushed through the pack of people standing in the back of the room. She found the usher at the door. "I'd like to leave," she told the girl. "May I please have my ID?" The usher's face was expressionless, her voice efficiently official. "ID cards will be returned at the conclusion of the session." "But I want to leave now!" Julie protested. "I don't want to see any more of this!" "No cards can be returned until the session is concluded," the usher recited. It was a final decree of official policy. There could be no arguing, no appeal from the decision. There was no alternative but to abide by it. Julie returned to her seat. She squeezed past a barricade of knees, rousing disgruntled comments from several of the spectators. Stan glanced up at her as she settled back into the seat at his side. It was only a glance, and then his eyes were fixed once again on the magistrate, the attendants, and the "undesirable" being judged. Minutes passed. Hours. Julie suffered the time in silence. She saw and heard, but could hardly believe, the unrestrained sadism of the giggling, laughing, applauding, cheering, jeering audience. What kind of people were these, who laughed at the pain and humiliation of others? What did they find amusing in the ruin of human life? They laughed when a partially paralyzed hunchback limped before the judge and pleaded guilty to a charge of ogling girls in a public park. They roared with hilarity when the magistrate suspended sentence and commented that a more appropriate charge would have been that of defacing public property. They applauded lustily when he said to the arresting officer, "Bring him in on that one tomorrow and I'll throw the book at him!" They laughed when an alcoholic appeared, twitching and brushing imaginary creatures from his tom jacket. They howled gleefully when he whimpered and sobbed like a small boy having a nightmare. They laughed when the magistrate said his fountain pen had run out of ink and, looking into the detention pen, inquired, "Would any of you blue bloods care to make a donation?" They laughed when a court attendant read a complaint which charged that the defendant, a small skinny man, had attacked the arresting officer, and that the officer ( six-three, two hundred and ten pounds) had used reasonable force in defending himself. The man's broken arm was in a sling and bandages covered twelve stitches in his scalp. The audience laughed. They gloated. They sat in judgment of their fellow men and called for punishment -- the more severe, the better. At last, the detention pen was empty. The last "undesirable" was brought before the bench. He was a small, pathetic looking man dressed in sailor's dungarees. He spoke Norwegian and clumsily tried to explain his predicament with the few words of English that he knew. "Stop gibbering!" the judge shouted at him. The magistrate's facade of kindliness had long since disappeared. He turned to the arresting officer. "Do you speak that language?" He made it sound like a disgrace to be able to speak Norwegian. The officer shook his head. "Neither do I," the magistrate said, with obvious pride that he was not contaminated by such knowledge. He arbitrarily ordered the man held until he learned to make himself understood; the hearing to take place when that had been accomplished. The sailor was led away. The Show was over. "That's the end of it, folks," the judge said, genially. He tapped his gavel and rose from his seat. The courtroom rang with lusty applause. The judge hurried through the door to his chambers and the applause died out. The people started to leave. Their animated discussions of the evening's events dinned through the room in a babble of noise. and there was a queasy feeling in her stomach. She thirsted for fresh air. Slowly, the mob of spectators formed a procession in the aisle. Slowly, the column of people moved toward the exit. Slowly, slowly, Julie was pushed along with the crowd. The line paused as each person stopped at the door and waited until his ID card was located and returned to him. Then the procession would take another step forward. And pause again. And again. Occasionally, an ID could not be found and its owner was requested to step aside and allow the line to move on while the search for his card continued. And there was another step forward. Stan held Julie's hand to prevent the pressing crowd from separating them. "How'd you like it?" he asked. He was aglow with satisfaction, tired by the long evening's excitement but with a pleasant weariness of accomplishment. "It's a terrific show, isn't it?" Julie did not answer him. She wanted to break away and run and run and run and run! She inched along with the rest of the procession. At last they reached the door. They told the usher their names and she methodically checked through the cards in her file. The procession behind them waited. Julie's ID card was quickly found and returned to her, but the usher reported some difficulty in finding Stan's card. He was asked to step aside, please, and let the line go through. He protested at the inconvenience, then sullenly joined a few other people waiting for their cards in the rear of the court. Julie stood impatiently in the doorway. She watched Stan strike up a grumbling conversation with another detained person. It was the moon-faced man who had been sitting in front of them. For a fleeting moment she thought of the old adage about "birds of a feather". She waited. People filed past her in a steady stream, from the courtroom, across the lobby, out through the street door. Watching them -- smiles and pleasant conversation, civilized small talk and serious debate of the merit of the evening's fare, as if it were a dramatic work of art. She clenched her teeth and prayed that Stan would hurry up. Soon the flow of people stopped. Still no Stan. Julie waited. Some twenty minutes later, an attendant came out of the courtroom. He went past Julie, then paused at the door, turned and came over to her. "Waiting for someone, miss?" "Yes. My friend. They seem to have misplaced his ID card." The attendant smiled and shook his head. "You might as well go on home, miss. If he's still in there, he won't be coming out for some time." "I'll wait," Julie said. "You don't understand, miss. He won't be out tonight." "What are you talking about? He's just waiting till they find his ID, and it couldn't have gotten up and... "Seventeen IDs were lost," the attendant explained, "Those people in there can't get them back. They're going to have to go to Caracas or Milan to apply for new cards." "Don't be silly!" Julie scoffed, "You don't have to go to another city to apply for a new card! All you have to do is file a claim and pay the fine." "These are special cases," the attendant said uneasily. He seemed reluctant to talk about it. Julie frowned. "What's special about them? Their ID cards were lost, weren't they?" "Look, miss, all I know is every time an ID is lost in there," he nodded toward the courtroom, "they've gotta go out of the country to apply for a new one. That's all I can tell you." "But why out of the...?" "The reassignment orders are being drawn up right now," the attendant said. He led Julie to the street exit. "So you'd better go home and forget that fellow." Confusion and a vicarious fear made Julie shiver. "Will he... will they get new cards?" The attendant shrugged. "They might -- some day." He touched her arm. His voice was low, barely audible. "Was this your first time at the Show?" Julie nodded. "How did you like it?" "I... I..." She shook her head. The attendant smiled at her gently. "Don't ever be a thirdtimer." He released her arm and hurried away down the street. Julie puzzled over his parting remark as she went out into the foul smelling night and walked away from the courthouse. Suddenly, the street before her dimmed as the lights on the huge marquee blinked out. She turned and looked back at the entrance of the court, now dark and deserted. And then she understood. She remembered the moon-faced man's observation about the scarcity of third-timers. She understood how the "undesirables" lost their ID cards and why so many could not speak English. She understood the apparent cruelty of the sentences meted out to them, too. The answer was on the marquee. As she looked back at it, only the raised letters on the canopy were visible, shining luminously in the darkness: "judge not, that ye be not judged And she recalled the quotation on the program: "For with what judgement ye judge , ye shall be judged     minute. Architects of tomorrow who will be thinking less in terms of insulation to keep out the sun's heat and more in terms of using the roof as part of the heating system will be making this new unit a common household term to replace "gallons" of oil and "tons" of coal. Hope of making milk a diseasegerm-fighting substance -- so that all who drink it would have immunity to a host of ailments -- is held out for the future by researchers at the University of Minnesota. The method would be to inject vaccines for disease-causing bacteria and viruses into the cow's udders. In response to this kind of vaccination, cows produce large quantities of antibodies. This would give milk drinkers passive immunity, which is not as long lasting as the kind one gets from an attack of a disease or a vaccination. However, by continuing to drink the milk die passive immunity could be continued. Science minded folks of the future may soon be adding two new words to their vocabulary of measurements. Timekeeping with atomic clocks has produced the word "essen" to designate a second as measured by atomic vibrations, to distinguish it from the word used to designate astronomical seconds. "Roof" is a new unit described as the quantity of energy that would fall on the actual roof area of a small house about # feet square during a day when the sun shines The marriage of the engine of the future with the fuel of the future was described recently at the first unclassified public discussion of nuclear gas turbines. Such nuclear gas turbine plants will have their greatest application in ships and in areas where other power plants cannot be used. With a gas turbine as the ideal power take-off for the nuclear reactor, they could be used in remote areas where power is now unavailable, where storage of conventional fuels is a problem, and during wartime where both storage and refueling for long lifelines are important. The gas turbine power plant takes up less space and operates at a higher efficiency than do power plants run on water or fossil fuels. Perhaps their greatest advantage over existing power plants is the fact that they can be transported from one place to another. Although there are still refinements to be made, nuclear gas turbine plants are a fact, and will come into use in the not too distant future. Housewives may have to go to the frozen food counter for a loaf of bread in tomorrow's supermarket. Bakers are looking hopefully toward the commercial freezing of bread, a practice that promises to reduce staling, loss of unsold loaves and costly night baking. Experts have probed into the technical problems, and learned that the maximum storage temperature for top quality bread is # degrees Fahrenheit for periods of about a week. Zero degrees is needed for extended storage. Moisture distribution, firmness, and taste are essentially the same as in freshly baked bread and will remain that way for four to seven weeks at zero degrees Fahrenheit Aircraft of the future may have to be designed to last for only a few hours, and then be scrapped. The problems created by the thermal barrier are triggering this new design philosophy. The two problems that must be mastered before Man's missiles can break through the earth's atmosphere at supersonic speed are: heat and creep (the softening of materials under increased stress). At five times the speed of sound at sea level temperatures are sufficient to melt the best aluminum alloys known. This, coupled with a weight penalty due to weakening of materials brought on by aerodynamic heating, may limit sustained flight to a region below three and a half times the speed of sound. A national astronomical observatory, long the dream of astronomers, will become an accomplished fact in about five years. The first of its kind in the United States, the observatory will probably be run jointly by several institutions. It will give astronomers from all over the country much better research facilities than their institutions can separately afford. A grant of #, (XX) has been made to the University of Michigan to look for an appropriate site and begin construction of a #-inch telescope. A mass trial of a vaccine against a special type of infectious cold is expected to get under way within a year. It will be similar to the trials of the polio vaccine; but instead of grade school children, military recruits will be lining up for shots. A vaccine for the grippe-like virus colds has already been tried on prison volunteers. It prevented the sickness in about # of the susceptible volunteers when the vaccine was "challenged" by doses of live virus swabbed into the eye. It is expected to give even greater protection against naturally caught disease, since a person is not likely to get such a big dose of virus that way. The vaccine caused no reaction among the volunteers and takes effect within ten days to two weeks. It will probably protect for a year or more, although this fact has not yet been proved. There may be a whole new concept of music for the listeners of tomorrow. R.C.A. recently announced a "music synthesizer" -- electronic equipment that can imitate any known musical sound or instrument and also create a multiplicity of sounds for which there is no known mechanical means of generation. The device also has an endless capacity for rhythmical variation. Jet planes may soon be able to land on runways only one-third as long as those now needed. Engineers have been experimenting with a new type of built-in brake for jet craft known as thrust reverses. The reverses scoop up the jet blast, diverting it to the opposite direction. The devices can potentially reduce ground roll far more efficiently than the parachutes used at present. The idea behind them is not only to slow down the jets on landing, but to brake them in mid-air. Totally automatic defense of North America by guided missiles automatically directed to their target by giant electronic "brains" is only a matter of time. This is foreseen with the announcement of a new electronic system which controls aircraft flight and fires the plane's rockets at the proper instant after it is within # miles of its target. When the radar "eyes" spot the attacking bomber, the pilot pushes a button, locking the radar on target. An electronic computer takes over, flying the plane on interception course no matter how the bomber maneuvers. At exactly the correct moment, the rockets are automatically launched. The U.S. Army has developed a new radio transmitter powered by the voice of the sender alone. The oneand-one-half pound device requires no batteries or external source of power and may be able to transmit at a range of one mile. A tiny companion receiver now under development would use voice energy that had been stored up during transmission to power it. Together the two would make a battery-less walkie-talkie small enough to fit into a telephone mouthpiece. A new experimental machine which can print, at the touch of a single key, any one of # eighteen-character words or phrases at the rate of # words per minute was recently announced by I.B.M. The model is a standard electric typewriter. Connected to it is a memory system set up in a control panel. The typewriter can be used normally, but a slight pressure on a foot switch converts it into the Wordwriter which types the stock phrases such as "Dear Sirs:", "In response to your request", "Yours truly", etc.  Spaceman's air domes may soon be dotting the countryside. Inflated fabric domes used for housing radar equipment have pointed the way for practical construction of such buildings. Structures such as these already in use can withstand wind velocities up to # miles per hour and varying temperature changes. Practical aspects of these inflated buildings include portability, safety, and unlimited space; commercial blowers being the only mechanical device necessary to maintain the pressure to keep them inflated. Researchers at Cornell are already constructing a hockey rink using this principle. Dear Mr. Quinn: As one of your silent readers who has bought your fine book ever since it came out without missing an ish, I've a gripe to give you. Why the heck have you gone bimonthly? Good grief, with the hokum and bunk several other mags offer all the time without folding, you're at least as good as any of file rest pubbing monthly. The poorer mags as a rule are the ones pubbing less often or on a bimonthly schedule. You've got a first class mag! Why bi-monthly then? I like the idea of bringing back the letter department; also the other departments. But you could still use a few more. It's like the guy who gets a grade-A steak three times a day -- he finally gets tired of it and wouldn't mind eating the humble bean or potato in between -- not that there's anything humble about good non-fiction. In the February ish, G.A. Kempner's letter is in part foolish. He argues that time travel is for the birds. So was atomic power # years ago, at least in theory. Then he really puts his foot into it re telepathy. "... no conclusive evidence is available at present". I wonder what Dr. Rhine would say to this, or what several scores of students and scientists who participated in conclusive telepathic experiments would voice in angry rebuttal? These people ain't a bunch of Rosicrucians bub! This can be considered answer enough to the rest in "Hue and Cry" who hold with Kempner's viewpoint. How about having Cal Beck do some fanzine reviews, club reports, movie reviews and similar stuff, and get Miller or Knight for book reviews. With men like that in IF, you'd have about the best mag in SF, bar none. -- Bernard Krumpel Newark, N. J. See this issue for that non-fiction but this is definitely not fC the bean and potato" kind. As to the other suggestions... how about some reader comments? Dear Editor: I have just finished reading Jim McConnell's very good story "Avoidance Situation" and can only say "he goofed". He refers to a C # drive and a C # radio. He neglects the fact that C # is not a velocity. Consider c -- # x # # cmsec. Then c #  # x # # cmsec#. Obviously this is not a velocity. Now I suppose someone will say that he didn't mean to square the units, only the numerical magnitude. Let us see where this leads. Considering c # as a velocity we get: for c -- # x # # cmsec, c #  # x # # cmsec; for c  # x # # milessec, c # -- # x # # milessec, which is the same as # x # # cmsec; for c -- I (light-sec) sec, c #  I (light-sec)  sec which is the same as # x # # cm sec. Obviously the value of c # depends upon the units used in c. Now Mr. McConnell says that the Terran ship can travel faster in subspace than the alien can using the c # drive. This implies that the alien uses the same system of units as we do. This is a statistical nightmare. The units we use are arbitrary. (This would not be the case if we used a distance of I light unit and a time of the same unit, but then c # is no faster than c.) I cannot see how the alien could have the same system. -- Stuart L. Anderson Seattle #, Wash. It would be a coincidence; but how else could McConnell get the idea across for the non-mathematician? Dear Editor: As an old time "sfan" -- if I may coin such a word at this late date in my science-fiction career -- I find great interest in your articles by Forrest Ackerman, whom I knew well in the early thirties. His February comments on the origin of S-F terms particularly intrigued me. While he did not mention the word "scientifilm", Fve seen it used enough to make me take a small measure of pride in having created that hybrid. If I remember correctly, it first appeared in print in The Time Traveller , the earliest sfan paper, which I edited back in #. Since I don't have a single some other old-timer may confirm my recollection. Another word I coin around that time was "scientale", but apparently it never caught on. Now I wonder what "sfandom" will think of my latest creation, "sfan"? That term seems so natural and obvious I can hardly believe it's really new; but I haven't seen it anywhere else before. -- Allan Glasser Brooklyn, New York Any old timers who still have copies of The Time Traveller? And how about "sfan"? Dear Mr. Q: I'm getting a little tired of all the protesting that only in the liberal arts can the true gospel of Man be found and the tendency to make the scientists the scapegoats for all the ills of the modem world. Too many of today's men of affairs are proud that they know nothing about science, and as a result the world has a philosophy that the men of science and engineering are narrowly materialistic and heedless of human values. Please make the following observation: Complete understanding of the destructive possibilities of an atom bomb does not mean that one must be built -- somebody has to want one. The nature of their work being what it is, skilled scientists and technicians usually work for the men of affairs. Can there then be so much questioning of their motives and values by the "humanists"? -- J. R. Ryder Chicago, #. This has all the earmarks of a good controversy . Who's on who's side? Dear Mr. Quinn: I must air some comments on the delightful February issue. The Hunter cover and space satellite drawings were worth the price of the magazine itself. Have one question to ask. When did you change art editors? Since I missed the December issue, I don't know whether you changed then or with this issue. And now to the inside. The short novel "Avoidance Situation" was extremely good. The writing some of the best I've seen in a long time. The Anderson novelette just didn't seem to click, though I usually like his stories very much. The rest of the stories were above average. The gem of the whole issue is "The Drivers" by Ed Ludwig. It's a most thought provoking story which takes today's reckless driving to perhaps the ultimate in story telling. -- Tom Driscoll Cincinnati, Ohio See what happens when you miss an issue? There's more to come on the satellite too . Better not miss any more . Dear Mr. Quinn: I haven't had a chance to read more than a couple of stories in the February IF -- "The Drivers", incidentally was excellent -- but as usual, I read the letter section and features first. May I dip a short oar into the controversy over G. W. Walton's viewpoint? It's rather bold to say that anything is impossible. I can think of two circumstances under which time travel -- physical, that is -- would be conceivable. One is the Einsteinian theory of time as another dimension of space, on which present advanced science is based. Under this concept, the future exists and has existed just as the past and the present and no change can be made in it. A theoretical time traveler finds that his action changes nothing, because he was already back at the point to which he traveled in time and his influence there had a casual effect on circumstances before the backward jump -- maybe even caused it. It is difficult to see, however, how a man could "skip" over a period of years in traveling either forward or backward in time. The other possibility is one which has a part in African savage religions, the concept of the "fanshaped" destiny. At every moment of choice, when the choice is evenly balanced, both courses are taken. This of course involves parallel time streams, and many parallel worlds diverging from every possible point. A return to a parallel world then would involve no paradox. If we limit ourselves to proven facts in our themes, we have no science fiction. -- Charles Fontenay Madison, Tennessee See Mr . Fontenay # s "Z # in this issue for one Einsteinian time concept... and tell us what you think . Dear Sir: Mel Hunter has goofed! Take a copy of February IF... turn to the inside front cover. Look in the upper left hand corner. We see a three stager taking off; Minimum Orbital Unmanned Satellite of Earth. But all three stages have wings! Only the first stage needs wings and they are just to enable it to navigate a shallow orbit (straight up is needless and, at present, impossible). However, there will be no air after Stage I falls to earth and Stage II takes over as far as airfoils are concerned. That is, there will not be enough air with which to glide. Sheer momentum and free fall will hold it up. -- Jerry Page Decatur, Georgia Mr. Page, you are right! Hunter and editor both goofed . The drawing. of the satellite rocket on page # will bear you out . And don # t miss the August issue ! Dear Editor: Have read for years stories and articles on space travel that make the false assumption that a person on the Moon or other planet of lighter-than-Earth gravity would be able to leap over obstacles of a height greater than those he could clear on Earth, the height being figured as inversely proportional to the decrease in gravity. The gentlemen who write such "data" say a man can jump over a five-foot obstacle on Earth; on the Moon, gravity is only one-sixth as strong; therefore he can jump six times as high or clear a thirty-foot obstacle! Sounds logical, but overlooks some of the important facts about how people jump -- and confuses clearing an obstacle with lifting the human C.G. A six-foot man, standing, has a C.G. roughly three and a half feet from the ground. In leaping over a five-foot barrier, his C.G. will clear it by a foot or less; therefore he lifted two and one half feet the other two and one half feet for clearing the obstacle being obtained by tucking up the legs. If I haven't overlooked some factors, then a man on the Moon should be able to leap over a seventeen-to eighteen-foot obstacle, hoisting his C.G. # x ##, or # feet pulling his legs in for the rest. There should be another way to calculate this: a man on the moon would weigh one sixth of, say, one hundred and eighty pounds -- or thirty pounds. Now, if we knew how fast a man's legs muscles could push an object weighing thirty pounds with an inertia of one hundred and eighty pounds, we could calculate how long that six-foot per sec (approximate) gravity of the Moon would take to stop and retrieve it, and m how far it would travel before it stopped. -- J. E. Cheme Hagerstown, Md. How about jumping obstacles under an air dome on the moon? Dear Mr. Quinn: At present you are up with the other top magazines in maintaining a proper balance between fiction and the features. However, I disagree with Mr. Hallam of the Dec. # issue, regarding technical articles. IF has yet to produce articles as absorbing as those on Thiotimiline or the series Origins of Galactic Etiquette. -- K. H. Quinlem Brisbane, Australia Dear Mr. Quinn: How about more stories such as Raymond Jones' "Human Error" and Ed Ludwig's "The Drivers"? These have the ring of reality and authenticity. If I could have one wish, I think I would like to live as long as Methuselah. Reincarnation wouldn't be the answer -- I wouldn't want to miss the next nine hundred years. How about some more letters from lady S.F. fans? Interest in S.F. isn't silly girls, it beats love stories all to pieces. Then too, some of our great scientists are women. I have been an S.F. fan for five years and I'm proud of it. -- Margaret Wilhelm Freeland, Md. (Continued from page #) However, as you have no doubt surmised by now, their speculations on the Satellite are not idle conjecture but come from a wealth of working know-how and personal experience. The first article (page #) dismisses the "basketball" idea and presents the satellite as a giant needle, # feet in length and one foot in diameter, and discusses the requirements for getting it into space. The second article, which will appear in the August issue, goes into more detail and describes instrumentation, functioning, orbital behavior and transmission of intelligence. -- jlq # fantasy and sciencefiction books and backissue magazines at # to # under what they've cost you before, here or anywhere, while they last! Shannon Rd., R.D. #, Box #K Verona Pennsylvania is shown being hoisted into position atop Stage One, one hundred feet high. The twenty foot Stage Three Satellite will be placed in position last. Monster gantry rig is built with adjustable crane arm to facilitate simultaneous rapid fueling of all three stages just prior to takeoff, in order to minimize boiloff of volatile oxidizer. Just before firing, tower will be pulled back to allow rocket to stand alone. Blockhouse is underground a half-mile away. Scene is near Patrick Air Force Base, Cocoa, Florida. (Drawings by Mel Hunter) Exciting New Worlds of Sc ience Reading! to be found anywhere in the world is now appearing regularly in IF. Also, you will find exclusive, factual, authoritative 'articles on the sciences of foday and tomorrow -- by eminent scientists. Here (this copy is a sample), in a beautifully printed and illustrated magazine, is the world of the future in both fact and fiction. But -- have you enjoyed this issue? Then why not subscribe. If you do, we will send your -- Your subscription brings you (bimonthly) # issues for just #. But we will send the first issue as a gift, which means you get I # issues in all... So, don't miss a single one of the important issues to come. Send your subscription to -- IF Magazine  special! Man's First Contact With Outer Space! booster is jettisoned, motor of Stage Three is ignited. Gimbal-mounted motor steers Satellite into orbit, three hundred miles up, at a speed of I # m.p.h. At cut-off, small amount of fuel will remain in tanks to be used for intermittent firing to stabilize Satellite in orbit. After jettisoning. Stage Two will coast nearly all the way around Earth in slowly descending path before entering upper levels of denser atmosphere and burning away due to air All Stories New and Complete I and Paul J. Vanous #  I (Second of Two Parts)  # # '"Satellite Over Europe" by Mel Hunter IF is published bi-monthly by Quinn Publishing Company, Inc. Volume #, No. # Copyright J# by Quinn Publishing Co., Inc. Office of publication, # Lord Street Buffalo, New York. Entered as Second Class Matter at Post Office, Buffalo New York. Subscription # for # issues in U.S. and Possessions; Canada # for # issues; elsewhere #. Allow four weeks for change of address. All stories appearing in this magazine are fiction; any similarity to actual persons is coincidental. Not responsible for unsolicited artwork or manuscripts. #c a copy. Printed in U S A Next ( October) issue on sale August #th Here is a workable 'blue print" of the instrumentation of the Satellite -- how it functions aloft for a year, how it tells Earth-bound Man what ifs like up there! The Satellite Vehicle Lead Research Engineer y Atomic Research Energy and Problems of Instrumentation , North American Aviation Microwave Senior Design Engineer y Missile Guidance Systems Divisiony Bendix Aviation these two articles was undergoing painstaking preparationy a continuouSy trickle of news, from various sources, has described bit by bit the actual development of the first Temporary Satellite assemblies. Thus it becomes more and more clear, as each day passes, that almost all the vitally necessary advantages of the proposed Satellite vehicle, described by Mr. Nuding and Mr. Vanous, are being by-passed in the designs of the vehicles actually readied for the LG.Y, program. The prime reason seems to be one of fanatic haste to get some-thing, anything, off the ground and into space by late # or early #, as announced. The publicity and propaganda value of being first into space with any kind of satellite is immense, and an openhanded gesture of peaceful intent. However, the satellites are supposed to have a purpose, namely: the gathering of technical data on conditions of many kinds in the volume of space immediately surrounding the Earth. The editors of IF have felt, almost from the opening announcement of Project Vanguard, that the very short time allowed for design, development and construction of the actual hardware to be fired precluded any chance for the accomplishment of the main purpose in anything more than a momentary fashion. Therefore, as long ago as October, #, IF commissioned Mr. Nuding and Mr. Vanous to develop and describe a design for such a satellite assembly which would satisfactorily perform the task of gathering a complex assortment of spatial data, and stay in orbit for a long enough time to provide information o maximum contribution to the I.G.Y. We feel that Messrs. Nuding and Vanous, have accomplished a remarkable feat. The construction of each of the three rocket stages which they propose presents no really great problem that has not already been under attack for a actual Satellite, is a close adaptation of Aerobee. Stage II is a modified Viking chassis, and Stage I presents dimensions and performance that are not likely to be too far removed from the thoughts being considered for our Intercontinental Ballistics Missile, Atlas. It is IF's conviction that -- once scientific appetites are whetted by the intriguing, but inconclusive, results of the first hasty shots of the I.G.Y. satellites -- it is inevitable that the design of a vehicle much more similar to the one we here propose will follow. For instance, it has been recently announced that the I.G.Y. birds will be fired into an elliptical orbit of very high eccentricity at an angle which belts the Earth more or less completely in its equatorial zone. This can only be, as Mr. Nuding and Mr. Vanous point out, because insufficient power is being utilized to provide that last thousand-miles-per-hour velocity necessary to overcome the EartWs rotational spin. Yet, the Equatorial orbit is a miserable compromise from a whole spectrum of viewpoints, and such an orbital elliptical eccentricity will allow only a scant few days of life for the bird before burnup at perigee, because of too deep re-entry into the upper atmosphere at that point every ninety minutes. There will be a bigger, more high flying bird" in a stable Polar orbit before too long, and the odds are excellent that it will be a substantial piece of respectable engineering -- not a globule. T he first article on this subject June IF) dealt briefly with Stages I and II of a desirable type of satellite vehicle for launching during the forthcoming Geophysical Year by the Defense Department of the United States. This article deals in detail with Stage toring stations of the Satellite vehicle. It will also discuss the possible orbits into which the Satellite might be put and the effect of these orbits on the information obtainable. Stages I and II, although they will be an engineering feat of prime importance, must be considered only as a means toward an end -- a conveyance or elevator to raise the Satellite # miles above the surface of the Earth and accelerate it along the direction of its orbital we see as a much more complicated device. It will be not only a rocket, complete with all the necessary fuel tanks, motor, guidance systems, etc., but it should also contain an electric power source, radio gear for sending and receiving information to and from the earth; a gyrostabilized platform, a navigation system, and a number of sensing instruments for the gathering of information of interest to I.G.Y. scientists. We have tried to design a satellite that will give the maximum amount of information and justify the great expense of its manufacture and launching. It differs considerably from the current popular conception of what the satellite vehicle will be like. In fact, it differs from what the first few satellites may actually be like. In order to enclose the numerous devices mentioned in the preceding paragraph, it would have to be a rocket at least as large as the Aerobee. The Aerobee is # feet long and # inches in diameter. Whereas the Aerobee was designed to carry a # lb. payload to an altitude of approximately # miles, the instrumented third stage of the proposed satellite would be carried by the second stage to near the altitude of the desired orbit, and have imparted to it by the second stage, nearly all of the # miles per hour velocity necessary to keep it there. All that would be required of the rocket propulsion system of the Satellite itself would be a sufficient number of shortduration impulses to make final and continuing corrections to the Satellite's orbit. This means that tankage and fuel load could be small, leaving room for the large bulk of desired instrumentation. satellite, one must consider the economics of the situation. If the cost of the venture is to be the deciding factor, then the satellite should be launched at or near the equator, in the direction of the Earth's rotation. This allows one to take advantage of the # miles per hour rotational velocity which the surface of the Earth has at the equator. This would considerably decrease the load of fuel necessary to bring the satellite to its orbital velocity, of approximately # mph. The size of both Stages I and II would thus be reduced, makbe scanty and inadequate, but obing the whole project of a size more servers on the ground would be consistent with present day rocket working under great terrestrial diftechnology. Acuities. Balanced against this gain, howThe ideal orbit, informationwise, ever, is the fact that such an orbit would be one that circles the Earth would probably give less informafrom pole to pole, which nullifies tion about the Earth and the upper velocity imparted by the rotation atmosphere than any other orbit of the Earth. In this way, the plane that could be chosen. Two of the of the orbit would be fixed with remost interesting bits of knowledge, spect to a point in space, and the which it is hoped the satellite will Earth would rotate under the satelcontribute, concern the magnetic lite while it moved along lines of field of the Earth and the Auroral equal longtitude with respect to the lights. Both of these phenomena Earth. This would allow the satelare concentrated at or near the lite to scan every bit of the Earth's poles. A satellite orbiting around surface every # hours. Actually, the equator would not be able to for the purpose of the Satellite get much if anything of value on Vehicle we have in mind, it would either of these. A further argument be ideal if the orbit were inclined against an Equatorial orbit is the # degrees from the axis of the fact that only a very narrow band Earth's rotation. This would allow of territory on each side of the the satellite to follow the twilight equator, mostly jungle and water, zone of the Earth, in the greater would be scanned by the satellite, part of a year, at least. The adThus, not only would information vantage of this would be that the power for the instrumentation in the satellite has been provided by covering one side of the satellite with solar cells which would derive energy directly from the sun. It would, therefore, be necessary to keep one side of it always facing the sun, or as nearly so as possible. (Fig#) The sequence of events necessary to put the satellite in its orbit, assuming that it will be the "ideal" orbit described above, is as follows : The three stage assembly would be launched vertically from the government's launching facilities in Cocoa, Florida. As soon as it has passed through the densest portion of the atmosphere, (about # miles altitude), its flight would be inclined, by the flight programmer, # degrees toward the west. This is to start neutralization of the Earth's surface rotational velocity. At the same time, the programmer would command controls to incline the Satellite along a slowly curving path toward the north. If the launching is made in the summertime, the end of this curving path must be calculated to place the satellite over an area # degrees incombustion chamber correction jet instrumentation power navigational control section dined from the North Pole in the direction away from the sun. Its heading must be such that, as it continues its flight, it will pass over an area # degrees inclined from the South Pole in the direction toward the sun. (Fig. #) At an altitude of just above # miles, the integrating accelerometer located in the third stage would terminate the firing of Stage I and start the firing of the motor in Stage II. Separation would occur Stage I behind. Stage I would coast along to an altitude of perhaps # miles and then fall back to earth, either to crash or to be recovered, depending upon whether or not a recovery system has been provided. Stage I would have an initial weight of about # tons, including fuel, and would take off with an initial acceleration of .# gravities net. It would have a burning time of about # seconds and would reach a velocity of about # miles per hour. Seventy-five seconds after Stage II starts firing, the integrating accelerometer will signal the flight programmer to terminate the firing of Stage II and start the firing of will have reached an altitude of # miles and a velocity of approximately # miles per hour. Since the Satellite will still have about # miles of altitude to gain, its position along the flight curve has not yet placed it in a horizontal position, but is at approximately a # degree altitude angle to the horizontal. At this time, separation continues accelerating along to the final flight curve attitude. Stage II would have a weight of about # tons, including fuel, and would weigh approximately # tons empty. It would develop a thrust of # pounds for about # seconds and have an initial acceleration of # times the Earth's gravitational attraction. Due to the fact that during part of the flight Stage II was inclined at an angle toward the horizontal, gravity would not exert the normal drag. Therefore, the acceleration would increase more rapidly than if it were climbing vertically. After # seconds of bumng, the integrating accelerometer in Stage quired acceleration to achieve a velocity close to # miles per hour. At this time the accelerometer terminates the firing of Stage Ill's motor. During the # seconds of burning, the flight programmer would have held the rocket to the predetermined curve which, at burnout, places the rocket in a horizontal attitude and in the "ideal" orbital path. Stage Ill's motor is designed to develop a thrust of # pounds, with a potential burning time of # seconds. The rocket would have a total weight load of # pounds. The fuel would be red fuming nitric acid as oxidant and hydrazine as reductant. It is planned that nearly # of the fuel would remain in the tanks after the Satellite has reached its orbit, to be used later for the correction of the orbit after the residual atmosphere has begun to slow the Satellite down. This would greatly prolong the Satellite's stay in its orbit. "T Z # # Vehicle may be held in its orbit monitor stations to determine its for a year or longer, and during roll position through telescopes, this period be able to transmit a Outside the Earth's atmosphere, maximum amount of useful in the sun delivers about # watts formation back to Earth, it would of thermal energy per square yard be necessary that provisions be of irradiated surface. The availmade for the correction of the orbit able area of one side of such a and the attitude of the Satellite, satellite would be # square feet This would be done by installing a per foot of length. The available command radio receiver in the inlength in our design is about # strument compartment, which, feet. This gives an irradiated area upon receiving certain coded imof # square yards, or a thermal pulses from the ground, would be input of # watts, able to turn on the rocket motor The new solar energy cells now and regain lost velocity; or, on rebeing developed by the Bell Teleceipt of a different coded impulse, phone Laboratories will produce activate laterally mounted steering # watts of electrical energy for jets which could be used to correct every square yard of illuminated the Satellite's attitude in pitch and area at sea level. Outside the atroll. mosphere, the solar illumination is The steering jets consist of eight somewhat higher, providing aptiny hydrogen peroxide rocket proximately # more power per motors, mounted in groups of four square yard. If the full # sq. yd. at each end of the Satellite. The of available area on the Satellite arrangement, as shown in Fig. #, is were used for solar cells of this type, such that they may be fired in they would produce # watts of couples to position the Satellite power, which could be used to around its longitudinal or roll axis, charge the Satellite's batteries. This or to overcome or introduce tumble would be more than ample to suparound its lateral axis. ply all of the electronic equipment Since this satellite depends for its and instrumentation power requireelectrical energy upon solar cells ments, even if the Satellite were located on its outer skin, it is imonly in the sunshine half of each # portant that these cells be always hour day. Figure # is a block diaoriented toward the sun. If the gram which shows the power deSatellite should be spinning upon mands of all the electrical comits axis after burnout (which it alponents in the proposed Satellite, most certainly will), the steering jets could be used to overcome this the solar cell side facing the sun. A of any practical satellite vehiThe Satellite would be painted excle would, of necessity, make use of temally with a design which would all of the latest techniques for (Ref. Kimball, Proceedings Internat. Illumination Congress, #, p#I ) tow. #W. AC selector I #W. from ground monitor amplifier I #VV. #W. miniaturization and sub-miniaturization of all components. Wherever possible, transistors would be used instead of vacuum tubes, not only because of their small size, but also because of their low electrical power drain. The radio transmitter, which would be used for telemetry, would have a total power input of # watts with an output of approximately # watts. It would be pulse modulated by an encoding device which receives information from the various sensing instruments. The encoder converts the information into a data transmission code, which is transmitted back to Earth and recorded for study at a later date. The Satellite would contain a small electric motor, and mounted on its shaft a little coil which rotates outside the skin of the Satellite. If the Satellite's orbit should pass through a region of large electric currents (as recently predicted and detected in the ionosphere), the magnetic field produced by these currents would induce a current in the rotating coil. This would appear as an A.G. signal, the amplitude of which would depend upon the magnitude of the current flowing in the ionosphere. This A.G. signal would be amplified and fed into the encoder. It is well to mention that in our design all signals from the sensing instruments are sampled one at a time, in rotation, by an electronic commutating device. This prevents the encoder from receiving information from two or more sources simultaneously. Also provided is a radio command receiver, consisting of a detector and control amplifier, to receive coded orbital correction signals from transmitters at the monitor stations. The output of the receiver would be fed into a decoder which converts the signals into command impulses for the opening and closing of the fuel valves furnishing impulse power to the steering jets and main propulsion motor. The power demand of the command receiver would be about # watts. The "B plus" supply for the transmitter and receiver would be a relaxation oscillator transformer supply, similar to that used in many brands of Geiger counters. This produces high voltage D.G. without using high voltage batteries. There would be a bank of photo cells looking through openings in the skin on the side of the Satellite facing the sun. These would have filters of graduated density in front of them to screen out all the visible rays and allow each photo cell to respond only to a narrow band of frequencies in the ultra-violet. The output of these cells would be amplified and fed into the encoder. A similar bank of photo cells would be located on the dark side of the Satellite, focused in a horizontal direction parallel to the Earth's surface. Some of these cells would have ultra-violet filters. Some would be sensitive to visible light of all frequencies, while others would respond only to certain selected colors. This bank of cells is to collect information on spectrum and intensity of the "Auroral Lights" (or Northern Lights) from the very region in which they originate. The signals from the photo cell banks are amplified by one stage of D.G. amplification, providing cell isolation and building the signal to usable proportions. A multivibrator circuit is actuated by this amplified signal and the "flip-flop" frequency is then a function of the incident light intensity. The resultant A.C. signal is then fed into the encoder. Located near the front end of the Satellite, on the side facing the Earth, is a socket containing a hinged arm. Mounted on the free end of this arm is the sensing element of a magnetometer. When the Satellite's propulsion motor ceases firing, an electronically operated catch releases the arm and a spring swings it out and away from the body. The magnetometer can be one of several types, the most sensitive of which is made in Germany. It operates on the principle that a change in the magnetic field of the Earth, as seen by the sensing coil, produces a harmonic in the frequency of an oscillator. The size of the harmonic is a function of the change in the magnetic field. This instrument is not only incredibly sensitive, but it will not be influenced by any magnetic fields arising from the Satellite itself. The output of the magnetometer would be amplified and fed into the encoder. The density of the residual atmosphere in the region of the Satellite's orbit may be measured by an instrument called an Alphatron. This device contains a small capsule of radium which emits alpha rays. The atmosphere enters into the space surrounding the radium capsule and is ionized by the alpha rays. The ions are attracted to an electrically charged plate, where they cause a current to flow in the circuit which is connected to the plate. The number of ions produced is determined by the number of air molecules present, thus the current flowing in the circuit is a function of the air density. An electroscope is mounted beneath a suitable screen which is opaque to all light radiations but is transparent to soft X-rays. This instrument will be on the side facing the sun. This device is nothing more than a small, very high quality capacitor, capable of holding a charge for a very long time. When X-rays fall on such a capacitor, they cause the charge to leak oft, slowly or quickly, depending upon the intensity of the X-rays. By calibrating this electroscope with X-ray sources of known intensity, one can measure by comparison X-ray sources of unknown intensity. An electronic circuit places a charge on the electroscope which immediately begins to leak off when exposed to the soft X-rays coming from the sun. As soon as the charge has decreased to a certain predetermined amount, the charge is replaced. The frequency of these recharging cycles, then, may be used as a measure of the X-ray intensity. This signal can be fed directly into the encoder. Another bit of information on the upper atmosphere which is of interest to the scientists of the I.G.Y. concerns the degree and type of ionization of the upper air. A possible instrument which could be installed in the Satellite and would give information about these phenomena would consist of a metal plate which would be open to the outside but shielded from all light. This plate would be electrically insulated and connected to an electronic circuit which would alternately place a positive and negative bias on it. While the plate was positive it would attract negative ions; while negative it would attract positive ions. If there were positive ions present in the air, they would cause a current to flow in the circuit in one direction; if negative ions were present, the current would be in the opposite direction. The size of the cunent would indicate the ion density. T he ground monitoring stations for the proposed satellite should be located geographically, so that it can be under observation as continuously as possible, especially when it is traversing regions of particular interest to the scientists. Obviously the areas of sky above the poles would be the most fruitful, informationwise, so that it is essential that there be several polar monitor stations. , At the equator, the area or strip of Earth, viewed by the Satellite as it makes its pole to pole circuits, is wide enough to give an overlap between strips. Due to the convergence of the lines of equal longitude, there would be a greater and greater overlap as the Satellite approaches the pole. Thus fewer monitor stations would be needed, until at the pole itself one station could observe every revolution. The number of stations located on other parts of the Earth depends upon (Continued on page #) Project Hi-Psi The aliens were conducting an experiment under laboratory conditions. So, how could they guess that their guinea pigs held the ultimate weapon? Illustrated by Virgil Finlay ridor of the Federal Building. The taps on his leather heels clicked a precise rhythm on the marble floor. He ignored the door that offered "Information", passed up office after office until he came to the glass paneled door which informed him that behind it funcarea. The door was locked. Lucifer Brill rubbed the knuckles of his left hand over the bristles of his sand-colored, neatly trimmed bit of mustache. It was a gesture known to all graduate students, Department of Parapsychology, Western University, as an indication of annoyance. The possibility of this office being closed had definitely not been part of Lucifer Brill's prospectus. A movement behind the opaque glass panel caught his attention. He rattled the knob. When this produced no results, he tapped with his immaculate fingernails on the glass. A shadow moved inside the office. The lock clicked. The door opened. An overweight young woman, obviously interrupted in the act of painting a lush mouth over thin lips, glared at him through a veneer of politeness. "Yes?" 'T have an appointment with the Director." Lucifer Brill's voice still carried the twang of boyhood in Chelmsford, Mass. The young woman's plucked eyebrows arched. "This office is closed. If there is an emergency, you may..." Lucifer handed her his card. The eyebrows arched still higher. "Dr. Brill! Your appointment was for #:#!" "I am aware of that," he told her, severely, "but the other drivers were not, and there were an incredible number of them on the road. Now, if you please..." "Would you care to make another appointment for tomorrow?" "I would not. You may inform the Director that I have arrived, that I regret my tardiness and that the purpose of my visit involves a matter of extreme urgency." Lucifer hadn't raised the level of his voice, but behind the rimless spectacles, his mild blue eyes became very cold and direct. The secretary unpursed her lips and flounced toward the inner office. She was back in a moment, and said with disapproval, "This way, please -- Sir." The Director greeted Lucifer Brill with a courtesy that was somewhat strained. His briefcase was on his desk. So was his hat. Lucifer went peremptorily to the point. "I must report a most serious case." From long training, the Director ignored the tone and inquired with careful politeness. "What sort of a case. Dr. Brill?" "I believe you would call it a case of kidnapping -- multiple kidnapping." "Kid -- kidnapping ! ' ' The Director's large hands hit the desk top with a cracking sound. His knee touched a button to flip on the tape recorder. "When? -- Where? -- Who " Lucifer considered the questions, methodically organized his answers. "As to when, I would say over the last eight years." "What?" "As to where, I would say all over the United States." "Now, one moment... please!" "As to who... Well, that would require a rather lengthy answer." The Director's voice shook with an effort to keep calm. "Dr. Brill, I would appreciate an answer to my question." "Very well." Lucifer took a small, brown leather notebook from the inside pocket of his beautifully pressed gabardine. "It will take a little time. You see, I believe that over # persons have been kidnapped." The Director's thick neck turned prime-rib red, and swelled over the collar of his shirt. Lucifer began to read: "Anthell, Ruth... Atwater, Horace... Borsook, George... 'That's enough, Dr. Brill!" "Thank you. Time really is of the essence, you know. I learned this morning that two of the missing persons disappeared as recently as four days ago." The Director breathed heavily. "Just who are these people, Dr. Brill?" "They are all positives. Some of them are positive positives." The Director made a small, strangling sound. "If you don't mind. Dr. Brill -- just what in the hell are positive positives?" "Oh, I'm sorry. I had presumed you were familiar with my work." "Fm a little vague about it." "I see." Lucifer's expression showed intolerance for this cultural lag, but he condescended to explain. "For several years I have been re-evaluating psi card tests at Western University, with the project goal of answering criticism that Rhine and other researchers ended scoring runs at so-called convenient points. While one cannot approach the statistical ideal of infinity in any series, it is nevertheless mathematically possible, through multitudinous repetitions..." There was an expression on the Director's face of a man trying to plod doggedly against a strong gale. "Positives..." he reminded, a little desperately. "... to amass statistics that are conclusively beyond the bounds of chance. In this rechecking, I have received excellent cooperation from researchers at other universities, and consequently have compiled what may well be the largest list of psi cases on record, whereby..." "Positives," grated the Director. "Kidnapping... remember. Dr. Brill... ?" "... I have been able to establish categories -- in my own terminology -- of non-positives, positives and positive-positives. Do you follow me. Sir?" removed sweat from his forehead with the back of his hand. "Now, shall we get on with this kidnapping..." "I am convinced that my positives and positive positives are either being kidnapped, or otherwise caused to disappear involuntarily." "# of them?" "#." The Director, in this crisis, took refuge in routine. He picked up Lucifer's card. "Do you have any other identification with you. Dr. Brill." The routine was a mistake. Lucifer produced an expired driver's license, an unpaid gas bill, a membership card in the American Society for Psychic Research, a faculty football ticket, a credit slip from the May Company, six traffic citations... The Director held up his hand in weary surrender. "O.K.," he said. "Tell me all about it." Lucifer told his story with an admirable lack of detail, and a certain intensity that compelled attention. At a certain phase of his project, it was necessary to start re-evaluating cases he had previously reevaluated. That phase had been reached two months ago. He had selected five hundred names from his card file, and had sent them form letters preparatory to arranging for tests. When # came back marked "Address Unknown", or "No Forwarding Address", he was disturbed, but not unduly so. In an era of great population shifts, people could be lost and forgotten. He mailed out another # forms. Four hundred and sixtythree came back unopened. A third mailing brought similar results. Subsequent mailings added up to the startling statistic that some # people apparently had vanished. Lucifer personally checked a score of names in the greater Los Angeles area. Five could not be located ; seven seemed to have moved without leaving a forwarding address; one was reported drowned in the surf off Point Fermin; six were listed with the Missing Persons Bureau. Of the latter, two had briefly made headlines. They had kissed their wives goodby, driven off to work and had never been seen again. was impressed by Lucifer Brill's calm recital of these facts. "But # people," he demurred. "Isn't it simply incredible that # people could disappear without causing a commotion?" "Do you know the number of missing persons listed annually by the Los Angeles Police Department?" The Director admitted he did not. "Nearly # juveniles and adults. The number in other cities is roughly proportionate to the population... New York, for example, had about eight..." cision. "Dr. Brill," he said, "Give me that list of names and addresses." teletypes began pouring in from the District Offices of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Individually, the reports meant nothing. Obscure people who simply were missing. Many of them were not even missed enough to be listed as missing persons. The final tabulation showed that # men and women were missing out of # people who had registered significantly abovechance in the psi re-evaluation tests conducted by Western University. Lucifer Brill pointed out something else. "The missing positives were my stronger positives. Most of those who have not disappeared were closer to borderline cases." At this point, to the infinite relief of the Los Angeles office, prime responsibility for the case shifted to Washington, D.C. A tight lid of security was clamped over the whole affair. facts and figures. Mathematically, they proved that the percentage of missing psi test cases was fantastically above the probability of coincidence. One by one, the people had dropped from sight, lost in the swirling undercurrents of a vast, shifting population. A school teacher in Little Rock, a side-show freak in Chattanooga, a TV salesman in Milwaukee, an artist in Philadelphia -- all had disappeared, obscurely but definitely. And the disappearances were continuing. Only two days before an inquircist in Dubuque, the man had closed up the drugstore, started for home and had never been seen again. He was listed as an amnesia victim at the local police department. In his psi test, four years earlier, he had consistently averaged seventeen out of twenty-five calls. Remorselessly, the accrual of new facts added to the Bureau's bewilderment. pointed out that almost an identical number of men and women were missing: # men; # women. Another perceptive young researcher ran cards on the missing and came up with this statistic: The women were between the ages of # and #; the men between # and #. Eighty percent of both sexes were in their late twenties. When all possible data had been mitted its report to a super-secret meeting of the Central Intelligence Agency. The reaction was not flattering. Navy's slightly profane comment was that someone in the Bureau had flipped his wig. Army looked disgusted. State Department was pained. White House was silent. The Chairman smiled, and waited for someone else to laugh. No one laughed. insisted that its report merited serious consideration. "We've kept this thing quiet," reporters could do with it." State looked less pained. Even Army and Navy gave reluctant attention. White House asked tentatively, "What about the Russian angle? If even a fraction of this nonsense we hear about psi is true, these people might serve an espionage purpose. Gould Soviet agents have smuggled them out of the country?" "But not #. Not by any known method of transportation." "Any subversives among them?" asked Army. "One hard-shelled Commie, a few fuzzy-minded joiners... about par for the course." "Then why in the hell is this important, anyway?" demanded Navy. A large hassle ensued, but all eventually agreed that if more than # people actually had been caused to vanish, it was at least potentially a cause for security concern. Army pointed out: "Next time, they might not waste the effort on these crackpots. They might bag some important people." White House asked : "What are we going to do about it?" There was an outburst of silence. Finally, State spoke up: "By all means, keep the matter quiet. It could be deucedly embarrassing." But something, of course, had to be done. And while something was being debated, at top level, in top secrecy, in eyes-only, Q-clearance sanctums, Lucifer Brill took matters into his own hands. He felt a compelling personal responsibility to the missing people, Their names had been compiled together in his files; he had made no effort to protect the lists. Anyone who wanted to make the attempt could have found a way to copy the cards. Lucifer also felt a sense of responsibility to science. And by science, he meant his o'vn branch of parapsychology. All other science eicisted for him in a vague limbo into which no serious psychological student would venture. "Nuts and bolts," was the way Lucifer customarily dismissed the shadowworld of science outside his own laboratory. But what use was it to go on confirming and re-confirming the existence of positives and positive positives if they just up and disappeared? The answer was discouraging. So Lucifer Brill took stock of himself. He was forty-four years old. He had no dependents, and was dependent on no one. Except for chronic nearsightedness, and hay fever in the months of July and August, he was sound of limb and body. Lucifer withdrew from the bank the balance of his inheritance and life savings. He placed the money in a trust fund to be given to Western University for continuance of psi research, five years after his death or disappearance. He drew up a holographic will bequeathing and bequesting his library and papers to the University. He prepared a sealed envelope containing three hundred dollars in cash and instructions for the care of his two parrots for the balance of their natural lives. And then Lucifer Brill released to the profession the news that after testing thousands of people for the psi talent, he had finely tested himself -- and had scored an average of # out of # in # PT tests, all conducted under strict laboratory conditions. Parapsychological circles reacted with an affectionate blend of awe and amusement. Fellow professors wrote him congratulatory notes, some with postscripts that jibed at him goodnaturedly. The editors of two psychic journals called to ask for articles. One Eastern university wanted to test him for PC and PK, but Lucifer stalled for time, waiting for something or someone to cause him to vanish from the face of the earth. On the evening of August #, about eight-thirty, there was a knock on the screen door of his bachelor apartment. Lucifer called, "Come in, please," but he continued to work at a statistical tabulation. The door opened; footsteps approached his desk. "Sit down," said Lucifer. He had been expecting a summer school graduate student to come by for a book. 'T'll be through with this column in just a moment." "There is no hurry. Dr. Brill." The voice was strange. It had almost a metallic ring. Lucifer's fingers turned white where they gripped the pencil. But he carefully totalled up the column and rechecked the answer, ferreting out an error in the addition of # plus #. Only then did he swivel around to face the tall, thin, dark-faced stranger. Lucifer said quietly, "Good evening. I am sorry to have kept you waiting." The stranger nodded, and took a small blue phial from his pocket. Long, lean-muscled fingers squeezed the phial. Lucifer's apartment faded gently away in the sweet, cloying odor of hyacinth. his eyes, his face was half buried in a white pillow. A damp breeze blew across the back of his neck. The breeze was heavy with tropical odors. Yet there was something curious about them. Lucifer sniffed, and sniffed again. He discovered that his hay fever wasn't bothering him. Through one probing eye, Lucifer could see his glasses on a nightstand. Beyond them was a window down which drops of rain were beginning to streak. Memories of the blue phial and the strange visitor flooded back. His right arm was numb, but he decided he had been sleeping on it. He experimented with his toes and legs. They moved. His right knee bumped against an object on the other side of the bed. The object felt alien to anything in Lucifer Brill's previous experience. He pushed firmly with his knee, and felt something that was both firm and soft, yielding and unyielding, warm and slightly cold. There was a sleepy murmur of protest, and the alien object moved away. Lucifer Brill obeyed habit. He reached for his glasses. Then he raised himself on his tingling right elbow and peered cautiously toward the other side of the bed. By many standards, Lucifer could have been adjudged a brave man. But what he saw had a curiously frightening effect on him. He saw the back of a woman's head, and a tangle of dark hair, a bare, sun-brown arm, a bare shoulder. Lucifer took off his glasses, breathed upon them, polished them thoughtfully on a corner of the sheet, and looked again. The apparition was still there. Only now the head was turned. The eyes that were watching him were wide and startled. The lips moved in sort of a gasping sound. They framed the words: "Get out of my bed!" In spite of a certain paralysis, Lucifer bridled at the words. He was a rational man, and believed that words should originate in a context of rationality. "I can assure you," he stated, "that I am not voluntarily in your bed, and that I have no intention of remaining here." There was another gasping sound. The eyes widened still more. The lips exclaimed. "Dr. Brill! Dr. Lucifer Brill!" Lucifer made a sound that was as close to a gurgle as he had come since infancy. When he had collated his emotions, he asked in his customary tone, "Have we met?" The lips smiled wryly. "It looks that way." "Ah... Yes, of course. But, I mean... under social or professional circumstances?" "You're the odd little man who gave me those card tests in San Diego last winter." Lucifer Brill digested this information in dignified silence. He considered the woman gravely, then took the white sheet and covered her up to her chin. She gasped again. "There are certain proprieties," he reminded her severely. He considered her again, trying to place her face and its personality among the thousands of people he had psi-tested. It was what he though he had never been able to establish any defineable connection between bone structure and psi positive characteristics. This was a strong face on the pillow beside him. Strong and at the same time possessed of certain female qualities, principally in the fullness of the rather large lips and in the throat lines. The cheek bones were fairly high. The skin texture indicated a chronological age of about thirty. Having thus appraised and catalogued the woman, Lucifer asked, "May I have the privilege of making your acquaintance?" "Wh... what?" "Your name," he said impatiently. "Do you mind telling me your name?" "Nina... Nina Poteil. They call me Nina... professionally." "Professionally... Lucifer rolled the word on his tongue as though he relished its flavor. "May I inquire as to the nature of your profession?" "You don't remember? Oh, well, I guess you'd call me a psychologist." "A psychologist!" Lucifer's eyes glowed with relief and approval. If he had to awake to find himself in these distressing circumstances, it was good to know that he was with a confrere. "Really!" he said. "I had no idea! It astonishes me that I do not remember you. What is your specialization?" "I'm called an entertainment psychologist." "How extraordinary! Where do you practice?" "At the Blue Grotto on Fifth Street. I'm billed for character readings. Cards are my medium, but I don't need them, of course." "Oh." Lucifer adjusted his glasses. He said, "Now, if you will kindly face toward the opposite wall, I will get out of this bed. As Lucifer climbed out of bed, he was painfully conscious of a short kimono that scarcely reached to his white, bony knees. Panicstricken, he looked around for something else to wear, and found some neatly folded garments on a chair behind his side of the bed. With a shock, he realized this was exactly the way he had always left his own clothes overnight. Only these were not his own clothes. They appeared to be made of a light, semi-transparent plastic material. There was a pair of trousers that fit rather like jodhpurs, a loose, practical tunic, and boots of the same thin material. When he had dressed, he still felt like a man in a goldfish bowl. Looking out the window, he saw that they were near the center of a very large compound, comprising hundreds of small dwellings, all constructed of a slate-like grey metal. Each dwelling was surrounded with a neat area of what appeared at first glance to be a lawn. On closer observation, it was a lush, mossy growth, deep green in color. At one end of the compound was a much larger building, sprawling into many wings and substructures. Behind it rose a tremendous, yet somehow slender and graceful, silhouette of a shining projectile, aimed toward the clouds. Around the compound, at intervals of about two hundred yards, were tall guard towers. The compound itself seemed to be located in a vast, towering forest that rolled away in all directions until it disappeared in the low-hanging mists. Through a break in the clouds, Lucifer saw a giant, orange wheel, many times the size of the sun he had known all his life. "Amazing," Lucifer murmured. Averting his eyes from the bed, he walked across the room and opened a door. It led to a large, bright room, artificially lighted from a source he could not determine. At the far end of the room were a door and glass casement windows that opened on a small, mossy clearing. The forest curved in behind the clearing, and walled it off. In the room itself, a large screen occupied most of one wall. The furniture was extremely functional. Everything, even the cushions on a low couch, appeared to be made of a tinted metal. But when Lucifer touched one of the cushions, it yielded resiliently. "Amazing," he repeated. In his astonishment, Lucifer forgot himself and looked toward the bed. "Miss Poteil, have you any idea where we are?" "I woke up after you did," she reminded him. "I see." He regarded her sternly. "What is your last recollection prior to awakening?" "I don't know... Yes, I do!" She sat up, then sank back and covered herself again as he glared disapproval. "I was in the Blue Grotto -- It was getting late, and I had just left my card -- like I always do -- at a table where two men were drinking. One of them said, 'Sure, we want a reading.' Then I sat down, and that's all I remember." "All?" he insisted, as if questioning a reluctant student. "There was kind of a strange odor..." "I know." "You do!" She bolted upright, forgetting the sheet. She looked accusingly at him. "Naturally, I recall the same odor. How else do you suppose I happened to wake up in this bed?" "I wondered." Lucifer turned back to the window in time to see two men, in the same plastic tunic and leggings he was wearing, approaching the front of their bungalow. "We have visitors," he said. "Perhaps we shall also have some answers. While I greet them, I suggest that you make an effort to acquire some kind of apparel." gaunt, heavy-boned man, exceedingly tall. Lucifer guessed his height at close to seven feet. The bone structure of his face was harsh and massive. His head was shaved; the flesh deeply bronzed. The second visitor was nearly as tall, but he was older, and his shoulders sagged. Bronze skin hung loosely over the bones of his face. After a cautious glance over his shoulder indicated that Nina had stepped into the semi-transparent leggings and tunic that appeared to be standard garb, Lucifer opened the door and faced the men coming up the path. The younger of the two nodded. "Good morning. Dr. Brill." His voice had the same metallic timbre that Lucifer had first heard from the tall visitor in his own study. The older man stepped close to Lucifer and gazed intently into his eyes. "He has emerged," he said. "Good. In that case, we must introduce ourselves all over again." The large man bowed slightly, then drew himself stiffly erect. "Dr. Brill, in your language, my name would approximate the phonetic sounds: Huth Glaspac. You may call me Huth. I am the Administrative Director of this project." He indicated his older companion. "This is our medical director. For simplicity, you may call him Dr. Thame." Lucifer studied them gravely. "Come in. Gentlemen," he said. Awkwardly, he went through the motions of introducing them to Nina. Dr. Thame examined Nina's eyes, and nodded. "Our laboratory calculations were correct," he pronounced in a brittle voice that reflected satisfaction. To Nina and Lucifer he explained. "Due to the differing metabolisms of your bodies, it required a rather delicate calculation to bring you both out of the drug at the same time. It was estimated to occur about four cintros... that is, hours... ago, during your sleep..." "Gentlemen," Lucifer interrupted impatiently, "do you mind telling us where we are and what this is all about?" Huth's massive bronze features lightened with the shadow of a smile, "It is doubtful that the answer to either question will be helpful at this time. However, in response to the first, may I inquire: Have you studied astronomy?" Lucifer drew himself up with dignity, "I am a Parapsychologist." Again there was the shadow of a smile on Huth's bronze features. "The extreme specialization of your science will never cease to amaze me. At any rate, you are on the planet Melus, one of the outer planets of the star which your Earth astronomers call Capella, and which they place in the constellation of Auriga." Lucifer blinked rapidly and rubbed the bristles of his mustache with more than ordinary vigor. Some of his colleagues at Western University had worked on rocket projects. He had always suspected they were fools; now he was sure of it. Why else would they be wasting their time with rockets, while another race was running around the universe, kidnapping positives? It was Nina who spoke up first, her dark, deep-set eyes burning with excitement. "Capella... I know!" she exclaimed. "Sometimes I work with the medium of astrology. It doesn't mean anything, really, no more than the cards. I could do just as well without either. But the customers... Say, unless you're not telling the truth, Mr. Huth, we're quite a ways from San Diego!" "The distance is not important," said Huth. "Melus is now your home, and will be for the rest of your lives." As the import of his words reached them, Lucifer blinked again. Nina sat down on the edge of the steel-grey couch. "For the rest of our lives," she repeated wonderingly. "That's a long time." "It is to be hoped," said Dr. Thame. Lucifer had to speak with more than usual severity in order to keep the tremor out of his voice. "I asked two questions," he reminded Huth. Huth nodded. "Your second question will be answered during your orientation period," "And how long does that last?" "It varies. For you, Dr. Brill, it could be much longer than for your wife." "My -- " This time, Lucifer's dry New England twang definitely broke. "Oh, yes. We learned that by observing the rituals of your culture we can minimize emotional trauma and thereby hasten orientation." He turned to Nina. "I can assure you that the proper Earth rituals were performed in the prescribed manner. Since neither of you were married, we could dispense with the Earth divorce ritual and perform only the marriage ritual. Does that ease your mind?" She stared at him without answering. Lucifer's temper bristled. "I refuse to recognize such mockery. It is immoral, illegal and definitely unethical." Huth dismissed the matter with a slight shake of his massive head, and proceeded to explain some of the objective facts of their situation. During orientation period, they would be required to remain on their own premises, except for their educational sessions at Center. They would be taken to Center once or twice each day, depending on their progress. Food preparation was handled at the Project commissary. Huth opened a small pantry. Meals, cooked by molecular agitation in the commissary, would be delivered to the pantry via the commissary tubicular. He showed them how to turn on the visagraph screen. "This is used for communication, education and also entertainment. You will find it very pleasant to read micro-filmed books off the screen. We also have a rather complete repertory of Earth music. After orientation, you will be assigned duties, and, of course, can become acquainted with fellow members of this project." Dr. Thame added briefly that Melus had been chosen for the project because it was a hydrogenoxygen planet similar to Earth, although almost uniformly tropical. The inner planets of the system were not inhabitable, since Capella, with three times the mass of Sol, produced one hundred times more heat. "You'll discover that members of your Project have given this planet another name," he concluded. "But don't let it disturb you." Nina spoke up suddenly. "The name is -- It's Mendel's Planet!" A muscle twitched in Huth's bronze cheek. "How did you know that?" She shook her head. "I never know how. Things just come to me. Sometimes I say -- said things to my customers at the Blue Grotto, and they would ask me the same thing. How do I know?" She shrugged her strong shoulders. "How does anyone know they know anything?" Huth and Dr. Thame exchanged quick glances. "Very interesting," said Huth. He moved toward the door. "We will send for you in two hours for your basic family record test." "Basic fam -- ." Lucifer choked on the word. He asked bleakly. "What might that be?" "It will be elementary to you. Dr. Brill. Just a basic psi-card test. We have your record, of course, but for purposes of standardization, we always start a new family's record in this manner. You undoubtedly will score rather close to your high test score on Earth." Lucifer hoped his apprehension did not show. He had not expected having to meet this challenge so soon. Nina had been pursing her lips, frowning and thoughtful. Now she asked. "Mr. Huth, how long have we. Dr. Brill and I, been here on Melus?" A hint of humor flickered in Huth's somber eyes. "Two Earth months." F or several moments after their departure, Lucifer stalked silently around the room. Nina remained on the couch. Her eyes were closed; her hands folded on her legs. There was a click in the pantry. Nina got up and looked inside. Breakfast had arrived. "We'd better eat something," she told Lucifer. "I am not hungry. Miss Poteil." She brought a plate, and stood resolutely before him. "This is going to be a hard day. You will need the food." He tried to stare her down, but couldn't. He accepted the plate, feeling like a chided school boy. Lucifer ate in silence, and when he had finished, he wandered out into the mossy patio behind the bungalow. There was a milky opaqueness, without obvious form or solidity, that walled the area off from the bungalow on either side. The rear of the patio, facing the forest, was clear, but when he walked too far in that direction, an invisible force shocked him warningly, and he leaped back. The trees were incredibly high; their canopy of branches and leaves was tightly interwoven. The rain had stopped momentarily, but water dripped unceasingly from the canopy to the mat of leaves on the forest floor. Spidery root tendrils crawled upward to mesh with tree boles and hanging vines. There was a smell of eternal dampness. Somewhere back in the shadows, an animal cried out. It sounded like a woman in pain. Lucifer shivered. He wished forlornly that he had left matters up gence Agency. He reviewed his prospects, and did not find them good. In a narrow sense, he had succeeded. He had found his positives and positive positives, but he did not yet know why they had been kidnapped. Nor was it likely that the knowledge would do him much good. He was on a strange planet, in the system of a distant star, apparently destined to spend the rest of his life with a woman who had been a nightclub fortune teller. As a doctor of parapsychology, Lucifer was appalled. As a confirmed bachelor, he was horrified. But a more immediate problem clamored for consideration. What happened to non-positives on Melus? He would soon know. The two attendants who came to take them to Center were much younger than Huth. They carried themselves with military stiffness. Nina and Lucifer were led to what vaguely resembled a motorboat, covered with a transparent bubble. The conveyance hovered in the air, about two feet above a narrow pathway that was surfaced with a dark, burnished metal. Lucifer accepted the vehicle without surprise. Physical scientists had always reminded him of boys playing with erector sets, and their accomplishments bored him. Center was a series of low slatemetal buildings scattered over several acres. Some were inter-connected; some were separated by mossy areas. The outer walls were broken by tall casement windows that extended from just above the ground to just below the eaves. As they circled among the buildings, the casement windows began to swing shut. Lucifer thought at first that this had something to do with their coming, but then he saw the thunder clouds tumbling in over the forest roof and heard the approaching rain. The hot wind swept open a gate as they were rounding one of the opaquely enclosed areas. Lucifer caught a nerve-shocking glimpse of many grotesquely malformed creatures stumbling, sprawling and hopping into the building, under the supervision of several bronzed, statuesque attendants. One creature, with a huge bulging head that flopped uncontrollably from shoulder to shoulder, was bounding along on a single leg. Its twisted features were grimacing horribly. Lucifer did not raise his eyes to Nina's face, but through the transparent sleeves of her tunic, he saw the muscles in her arms grow rigid. The conveyance stopped in front of the entrance to one of the larger buildings. An attendant met them as they stepped out of the vehicle. He led them down a long, glassroofed corridor. The rain was now drumming dismally against the glass A blindfolded girl of about six passed them in the corridor. She stepped politely to one side, then continued surely and unconcernedly on her way. Huth received them in a large room equipped with two rows of facing desks. "As I told you," he explained to Lucifer, "these tests will be very elementary. Together with your Earth records, they will form part of your basic family file. And," he added, harshness edging into his voice, "it will be wise for you to give us your complete cooperation." One of the attendants led Nina to a seat in front of a desk. The other attendant beckoned to Lucifer. "If you please," Lucifer said to Huth, "I would like to observe your technique. Being a professional man, you know..." Huth assented. "May I compliment you on your attitude. Dr. Brill. Such an interest can shorten your period of orientation, and it raises my already considerable expectations for you. But we do not pretend to any originality of technique." After watching the attendant run through twenty-five cards with Nina, Lucifer was quite ready to agree with Huth. The technique was crude, far below minimal laboratory standards. Nina's attention wandered about the room, but she called off the cards without hesitation. The attendant took her through three runs, checked his file record and stood up with a shrug. He said something to Huth in a language that blurred and rasped. "Dr. Brill," said Huth, "will you oblige us now?" Lucifer stepped resolutely to the desk, but the palms of his hands were moist. Over the past two decades he had taken many tests, enough to know that he could never score above chance save for an occasional run of coincidence. And this was not one of those runs. He saw it in the attendant's manner before five cards had been turned. Desperately, he fumbled ahead, guessing blindly. At the end of the first run, the attendant spoke rapidly to Huth. Lucifer saw Nina watching him with surprise. "This technique is incredible!" he snapped at Huth. "With all the distractions in this room, not to mention the emotional stress of our situation, a true score would have to depend on chancel" "That is not necessarily so," Huth answered calmly. "The stronger a psi sense may be, the more easily it is brought into use, regardless of external circumstances. You Earth scientists go to incredible lengths to test under laboratory conditions an ability that does not belong in the laboratory." "Ridiculous! Laboratory standards were necessary to prove the existence of psi." "Therefore, Earth scientists will go on proving it to each other for the next hundred years." "What are you proving by this inferior duplication of our psi tests?" Lucifer challenged, hoping to divert attention from another disastrous run of the cards. "More than you suspect. Dr. Brill. For one thing, by checking this first test with your Earth record, and later with additional tests, we can obtain an indication of your response to orientation. This could be important to you, vitally important, I might add. Now, shall we proceed." It was an order, not a question. Lucifer saw Nina nod at him, and try to smile encouragingly. This fed his anger with the fuel of humiliation. The attendant took a new deck of cards, began to turn them. Brill felt his eyes drawn again to Nina. He called out his answer, unthinkingly. "Circle... circle... star... rectangle... circle..." When the run was completed, the attendant instantly started another. A third and a fourth run, then the attendant turned to Huth with a rapid burst of language. "Excellent," said Huth. "Excellent, Dr. Brill. All you needed to do was relax! Excepting the first run, you averaged very close to your Earth score." Since awakening that morning, Lucifer had found his professional equanimity tried sorely on several occasions. But never more so than at this moment. To have scored so significantly above chance on three consecutive card runs was a greater shock than awakening to find himself with a strange wife on a strange planet. The law of probability was the unchallengeable bastion of his private world. He caught Nina's glance again. Her dark eyes were watching him in a way he could not understand. Huth said, "This has been a most satisfactory prelude to orientation. We can proceed immediately." He touched a button. In a moment. Dr. Thame entered. "You will go with Dr. Thame," Huth told Nina. "Your husband will remain here." Nina looked at Lucifer again, hesitated, then turned away without comment and followed Dr. Thame out of the room. Huth led Lucifer into a smaller office. "This procedure is somewhat unusual' Huth commented. "Ordinarily, new arrivals are assigned directly to units of the Orientation Staff. But we have special hopes and plans for both of you. In particular, Dr. Brill, you can be of great service to us." It was difficult for Lucifer to be anything but forthright, but he tried. "Psi is my work," he said. "I suppose it matters little enough where I work at it. But it would help to know the purpose of all this." "Undoubtedly. But it will not be easy for you." "I am not a child." "No, but you are an Earth scientist." Lucifer felt his anger rising again. "I'm afraid I don't follow you." "I intended no invidious comparison, Dr. Brill. But, as orientation progresses, you will better understand what I mean. Have you ever thought how your science would appear to an extra-terrestrial mind?" "The concept has never occurred to me," Lucifer snapped, thinking of the grotesque creatures running out of the rain, and the blindfolded child walking alone down the corridor. "We see your science as a great number of cubicles, all operating within one structure, with a minimum amount of inter-communication. Each cubicle is engrossed in a process of infinite abstraction from a body of potential knowledge self-doomed to be finite. It studies every new idea chiefly in terms of concepts fundamental to its own specialized body of knowledge." Huth waved a large hand to cut off a protest from Lucifer. "And what of the phenomena an individual scientist observes and evaluates? He shapes the facts into an hypothesis that may be valid only within his own cubicle. He does not venture outside, A most glaring example is that of your medical diagnostician. He uses the lays them down and becomes a therapeutic nihilist!" "Specialization has meant progress," Lucifer protested. "Progress, yes, but progress only to the frontiers of infinity. Will you dare venture into that frontier, Dr. Brill?" "Of course." "Be careful! The price of that venture is very high. Consider for a moment your Earth biologist: The very nature of the subject on which he has founded his science eventually dooms him to technological unemployment! If he follows the living cells to their ultimate sequence of interactions between ions and molecules, biology ends as it began -- as applied chemistry and physics!" Lucifer shifted uneasily. "From another value judgement," Huth continued, "the orthodoxy of Earth science is a product of its fragmentation. Within each cubicle, isolated from the fertilization of new concepts, the unorthodox all too often and too soon can become rigidly orthodox. This is the circle around which each science seems forever to travel!" Lucifer felt himself being moved skillfully toward an unknown objective. It was like being a Knight on a chessboard in the hands of an expert player. Huth moved in closer to his objective. "And so it is with psi, Dr. Brill. Or so it appears to an extraterrestrial viewpoint, which is now necessarily your own! Parapsychology had to depart from the physiology of orthodox psychology in order to get a look at itself. It became unorthodox avant guarde! It established a scientific case for psi, and for two decades thereafter established little else. What have you proved that Rhine did not prove twenty years ago?" "It is necess -- " "Already we see forming a dogma of psychic research, a cult of psychologizers that may match in exclusivity the cult of physiologizers -- each declining to draw upon the resources of the other! We see a tendency to look backward instead of forward, a bemusement with the historical concepts of association theories, psychon systems and continuums of cosmic consciousness -- all of which suggests a turning away from the frontiers of infinity to an interminable abstraction of possibilities from your own finite knowledge. "Do you follow me. Dr. Brill?" Lucifer removed his glasses, breathed on them, polished them carefully on the sleeve of his tunic. He looked beyond Huth to the window and the steaming tropical rain. When his thoughts were composed again, he answered, "I follow you -- with reservations." "Naturally. Now consider this question : Have you looked into other cubicles of science for answers to psi?" "We welcome all viewpoints." "Do you now? I wonder! From our extra-terrestrial viewpoint, it is evident that biology, chemistry and physics all have within their present finite bodies of knowledge the fragments of concepts that could propel psi, and hence all of science, into the very frontier of infinity." Huth paused, looked searchingly at Lucifer. "Dr. Brill, are you ready to share your primacy in psi research with the physicial scientist?" "The physical scientist scoffs at us." "He also is reluctant to leave his cubicle. However, by using the mathematical tools of logic to enclose psi research in a framework of anti-logic, built on the principle that man cannot know, your psychic theorist has alienated the handyman physical scientist who has so much to contribute -- but who insists that man must know." Huth raised himself to his magnificent seven feet of height. "Let the thoughts germinate, Dr. Brill. This is only your first orientation session. On the whole, we have made good progress." He handed Lucifer a printed card. "This will instruct you how to tune in your visagraph to a closed circuit orientation program after the dinner hour. Do not fail to follow instructions." With the briefest of nods, Huth stalked toward the door, where he turned, as if in response to an afterthought. "Your motivations to progress in orientation will be several. Dr. Brill, but it may be well for you to know that you already have a hostage to the future success of our program." "Hostage?" "Your first child, Dr. Brill. It will be born in approximately seven Earth months, according to the calculations of Dr. Thame. "Meditate on this while you await the attendant who will return you to your quarters." L ucifer tried to square his thin shoulders against the straight-backed chair. He ran the tips of his fingers over his upper lip, and out of the numbness that gripped his brain came a vagrant thought: His mustache really did need trimming; it wouldn't do at all to let down about such things. The door clicked open. He turned, expecting to see one of Huth's attendants, instead he faced Nina. Her cheekbones made two spots of white against her olive skin. "Hello, Lucifer," she said. Her voice was even deeper, huskier than usual. Her tone and the way she used his first name told him she knew about the child. But he pretended not to notice. He couldn't discuss the child until he had time to evaluate the meaning of it all. "Miss Poteil," he began firmly. His voice shook a little, and he started again, "Miss Poteil, I trust your first orientation session was not too unhappy an experience." Her dark eyes were thoughtful, troubled. "What is unhappiness?" She shrugged in reply to her own question. "I am never sure about crossing the line between happiness and unhappiness. Are you?" She sat down facing him. "If your question philosophical or psychological. Miss Poteil?" She smiled faintly, and shook her head. There was silence between them. Finally she spoke again, "I saw the little girl as I came in." "The girl with the blindfold?" "Yes. She stepped right past me, and went into a room just down the corridor. The room seemed to be full of children." Lucifer stood up with sudden decision. "I believe I will try to look around." The white spots grew in her cheeks. Her full, expressive lips tightened. "Be careful, Lucifer," she said quietly. The long corridor was frighteningly deserted. With so many doors opening off it, the odds seemed overwhelming that someone would step out one of them at any moment and challenge his right to be there. Lucifer's plastic boots scraped on the metallic composition floor. A subdued tinkle of children's voices drew him to a door some thirty steps down the corridor. The door appeared to be of a glass-like material, but it was opaqued. He pushed against it, and it moved. He drew a long breath, then inched the door open. A tall, bronzed women of Huth's racial characteristics was grouping a dozen or so youngsters into an activity pattern. The children were all around five or six years old. Their fair skin and bone structure indicated they were offspring of Earth parents. The woman blindfolded one of the youngsters, a square-shouldered, blond little fellow. The she tossed a ball to one of the other boys, and gave a short command in her own language. The children scattered about the large room. The boy with the ball ran and stood against the window, which was blurred from the driving rain. After chanting what appeared to be a number count, the blindfolded boy began to move around the room. As he approached one child after another, he would hesitate while still three or four steps away, shake his head and move on to someone else. Finally, when still some ten feet from the window, he swerved abruptly toward the boy holding the ball. He ran directly to him, grabbed him by the arm, then fumbled for the ball and clutched it triumphantly. The other children broke into an excited babble, and everyone seemed to be clamoring for the next chance to be blindfolded. The woman looked disconsolately at the rain-streaked window, and began to blindfold another child. Lucifer eased the door shut. He moved on down the corridor, past room after room that seemed deserted. A tentative testing of several doors proved they were locked. Near the end of the corridor, where it turned at right angles and headed down an equally long wing of the building, Lucifer found another room that sounded occupied. Again he inched the door open. This room was occupied by smaller children, mostly of prenursery school age. They were playing a version of a game Lucifer recognized from his own childhood: Tail on the donkey. Only this donkey was a sinister looking creature with tiny ears and formidable jaws. One by one the children toddled up to pin a stubby tail on his derriere. Three of them hit the target with biological exactitude. The fourth missed badly. It was a little girl. When the others laughed, she tore off her blindfold, stamped her tiny foot. A bench sailed across the room, thudded flatly against the opposite wall. The children's derisive laugh changed to one of excitement, and the girl felt encouraged to expand her tantrum. The bench caromed from wall to wall to ceiling and off, with a crash, into a corner. The woman attendant picked up the child by the shoulders and shook her. For an instant, wild defiance flared on the childish features. Then the girl pouted, and two tears trickled down her soft cheeks. Lucifer didn't try to analyze his impressions. There would be time for that later. Now it was important only to gather as many facts as possible before he was detected. The second corridor contained many rooms. From the sound of the voices coming through the doors, and from spot-checking several rooms, Lucifer judged they were all occupied by children engaged in some form of play activity that required psionic ability. At the end of the corridor, Lucifer opened a door and found himself staring out into the rain. Urged on by a growing eagerness to learn as much as he could before he was stopped, he ducked outside and ran across a mossy stretch of courtyard toward a second building. Rain plastered his hair, and trickled down his neck, but his tunic and leggings seemed waterproof. The rain was hot and stinging, and the wind surged out of the forest with lashing force. Halfblinded, Lucifer stumbled over some unseen object. He sprawled to his knees. He got up, slipped again, and skidded int# the partial shelter of a doorway. The door couldn't be moved. Lucifer moved out into the rain again, and groped his way along the side of the building. He stumbled over something else, fell heavily. A hoarse outcry, lifting above the wind and the rain, brought him to his knees. Shielding his eyes, he saw that he had stumbled over a figure huddled in a corner of the building. The figure straightened above him. Its movements were jerky, like a carpenter's rule unfolding. It was one of the grotesque, misshapen creatures Lucifer had glimpsed on first approaching Center. Through the slanting rain, Lucifier could make out a gigantic head that bulged sickeningly and was utterly devoid of hair. The head sagged forward, flopped back again until it struck the wall of the building, then snapped forward. It had two blank eyes, a flattened horror of a nose, a mouth that sagged and twitched. The mouth was trying to say something, but the words dissolved in a bubble of red saliva and a merciful wash of rain. The head flopped back and forth. The figure jerked toward Lucifer, lunged and fell on top of him. For the first time in his adult life, Lucifer lost control of himself. He screamed, and screamed again. H ands clawed him down, smashed his face into a choking puddle of water and wet moss. The hands and arms beat against his back and ribs. Each blow was a flailing, uncoordinated effort, but the impact was crushing. Water bubbled into Lucifer's mouth and nostrils. He raised his head to breath, and a random blow smashed it back down. He gulped air and water together. He choked, strangled. And then the weight was gone from his back. The hands and arms stopped smashing against his flesh and bones. Lucifer raised himself on his elbows, retched chokingly. A powerful pair of hands picked him up and half carried him out of the rain. Someone brushed back his hair, wiped his eyes. He opened them. A tall attendant held him up. Nina dried a trickle of water from his cheek. Her dark features showed shock and concern. Huth watched him sardonically. "It was fortunate your wife sensed your danger and helped us find you," Huth said. "Your zeal for orientation is commendable. Dr. Brill, but I suggest you proceed less rigorously." Lucifer took the handkerchief from Nina, wiped his mouth. It tasted salty. He attempted to stand with some measure of dignity. "Who or what was that creature?" he demanded. "I think you have had quite enough orientation for the time being," Huth replied. The strange conveyance whisked them back to their bungalow. Lucifier soaked himself in a hot bath, and it was a long time before his trembling muscles relaxed. Dinner, via the tubicular, consisted of a meat dish, more strongly flavored than venison, two rather salty green vegetables and a flagon of warm, spicy amber liquid. They ate in silence. Soon after dinner, Huth appeared on the visagraph screen, for what he called their second orientation session. This was largely a development of the first, and so were those that followed on succeeding days. Each left Lucifer feeling more unsure of himself, tense, mentally adrift. The distance between Melus and his safe, sectire little laboratory at Western University was becoming greater than could be measured in light years. Ranging from geology to biochemistry, from physio-psychical sources of neurosis to what he called the "molecular site of understanding", Huth hammered incessantly with semantics and logic against the carefully mortared bricks of Lucifer's own scientific cubicle. Sometimes he spoke with almost mystical fervor of a frontier beyond a frontier, a science beyond a science. One evening, during a visagraph session, Nina suddenly interrupted : "Your words speak about the infinite," she murmured, "but your mind does not sing with the music of infinity." Now, for the first time, Lucifer saw uncertainty on Huth's face. Uncertainty, and a look of indescribable sadness. Then the visagraphs screen went dark. Nina was on the couch beside Lucifer. Her eyes were halfclosed; her strong fingers were clasped around her knees and she rocked back and forth gently. "What a strange man," she said. "What a strange and strong and lonely man. For a moment, I saw all the loneliness of the universe in his eyes..." Lucifer regarded her uneasily. "You see many things, Miss Poteil." "No, Lucifer, I see so very little. But what little I do see makes me feel like a blind person the rest of the time. Isn't it terrible to look at shadows?" "Really, Miss Poteil -- " "Hush!" She put her finger to his lips He started. "Wha -- ?" "Please, Lucifer -- Oh, be quiet -- Please!" Her breasts rose and fell sharply beneath the thin tunic. He saw the tendons stand out in her throat. Finally she whispered : "I think someone is coming to see us! Tonight. Fm not sure... Oh, this damned blindness!" She beat her fists furiously on her knees. Lucifer tried to speak casually: "If someone comes, we'll know about it soon enough. Meanwhile, I suggest we try to get some sleep." There was a strange weariness in her as she got up from the couch and started toward the bedroom, which Lucifer had sternly assigned to her after the first morning of awakening. But after a few steps, she stopped and turned back to him. "Lucifer, they say you are the father of my baby. If that is so, I am grateful." It was the first time they had mentioned the child. Lucifer felt shocked, and very humble. This was another new feeling. He decided it would be wisest not to speak. "You are a man, Lucifer," she went on, in her husky voice. "I knew it when you tried to take that test, knowing you would fail." She brushed her lips across his forehead. "Goodnight, Lucifer. I have known many males, but very few men. There is a great difference..." He lay awake on the couch for a long time, his body aching for sleep, his mind spinning with strange thoughts, stranger concepts. He was just beginning to slip into the twilight zone between wakefulness and troubled sleep when a foreign sound in the room jarred him awake. Forcing himself to lie completely still, to continue his even breathing, he strained to catch a repetition of the sound; his eyes turned toward the rear window. The latest rain squall had swept by, and the window was now a luminous recsky. As his vision cleared and focused, he saw that the casement window was partly open. A fresh breeze, warm and fragrant with the odors of the rain forest, swept across the couch. Lucifer heard a definite, sharp click from the visagraph. It was as though a switch had been snapped. But there was no shadow of a physical presence in the room. The bedroom door opened suddenly. Nina stood there for an instant, silhouetted in her short, white nightgown. Then she moved quickly across the room, knelt beside his couch. Her lips, warm and dry, pressed close to his ear; her long hair tumbled over his cheek and throat. She whispered: "Can I stay here a little while?" He nodded, and felt her body crowd against him on the narrow couch. They lay there together, breathing quietly, watching the open window. And then there was a shadow there, a darker something against the darkness. Nina's body stiffened. With an unconscious gesture older than remembered time, Lucifer put his arm over her. A voice spoke out quietly from the window. "It's O.K. now. Dr. Brill." A figure stepped through the window, stumbled over the hassock and sat on the edge of it. "You both there?" a man's voice asked, then, without waiting for an answer, continued: "... Good!... Fetzer's my name. Albert Fetzer. Remember me, Dr. Brill?" "I regret to say -- " "That's O.K. It was a long time ago -- when I was Gl-ing my way through electrical engineering at Western. You gave me a lot of card tests. I did pretty well, too -- dammit!" "I'm sorry." "None of us blames you anymore. We were kind of bitter at first -- now we're glad you're here." "Glad?" "Sure. We've got a lot of things figured out, but there's still a lot more we don't get. You could be a big help to us." "I sincerely hope so, but -- "But, nothing, Doc. It looks like they're really giving you the orientation business -- like they need you and are going all the way this time!" Lucifer's tongue felt dry, and difficult to maneuver. He was grateful that Fetzer didn't seem to expect an answer. "They've been cozy with some of us before, but always cooled off. You just play it smart, learn all you can! But be careful, or you'll end up with the Gooliesf' Fetzer listened intently, then chuckled. "I guess they're still kind of fouled up! We had to warp the force field behind your place -- shorted their magnetic track, too! But before they get here there's something else I've got to warn you about -- 'specially you, Mrs. Brill." He hesitated. "What is it?" Nina prompted. "Well, when you think you get a message from us don't bust out with it like you did a while ago. They pick up everything you say on that damn visagraph -- I had to short the magnetic track in order to get at the control wire to block it off -- " "Just a moment, Albert," Lucifer interrupted. "How did you know what was said in this room?" Fetzer sounded embarrassed: "Well, it's a funny thing. Doc, but back on Earth we were all kind of ashamed of this psi thing. We tried to keep it hid from other people. Here, it's different. We're all the same way, more or less. So we try to use psi instead of hide it. Doesn't work on Huth's gang, though. They got minds like machines -- It's like trying to psi into a quarter-horse motor!" There was a pounding of footsteps outside the front door. "Gotta go!" said Fetzer. He twisted lithely through the window, closed it behind him and vanished into the sultry night. Nina slipped from the couch and hurried into the bedroom. The front door banged open. The room light flared on, blinding Lucifer. Huth was there, with two of his men. The men ranged about the place with giant strides, going through the living room, the bedroom and out into the rear enclosure. One of the men worked on the visagraph, trying to light it up. He had no success. Huth stood over Lucifer's couch. "Has anyone been here?" he demanded sternly. "If there was, he was more quiet and courteous than you have been," snapped Lucifer. "Need I remind you that this has been a most exliausting day, and that to be awakened in this manner -- " "Mrs. Brill received a message, and informed you of it." "Miss Poteil talks a great deal of nonsense, which you must also have overheard. However, I assure you. Sir, that I am not interested in her hallucinations, and if you are, I suggest you discuss them with her in the morning." "What happened to the visagraph." "If I knew, I wouldn't care. Your electronic gadgets impress me as being rather juvenile." Huth bowed. "Perhaps because you do not understand them. Dr. Brill." The warning in his voice was clear. He turned sharply on his heel, motioned his men out of the room and left, shutting the door quietly. tubicular delivered a metalbacked manuscript that bore the scholarly title: "Genetics and Psi, with an Evaluation of Three Case Histories as Compiled from Earth Records." Nina glanced at the title across the breakfast tray, then shifted her chair beside Lucifer's. "I'd better read that, too," she said. "Maybe it will tell us something about our own genetics experiment." Lucifer pursed his lips in disapproval at her frankness, but he held the manuscript so that both could study it. The introduction began: "After studying the incidence of psi on Earth, we felt that the genetics approach should receive considerable concentration of effort. Our chemists, biochemists and physicists are naturally continuing their experimentation, but the geneticists seem to promise the maximum results in the minimum amount of time. If psi can be explained, understood and propagated through genetics, it can no longer be misnomered 'extra-sensory'. It will become no more 'extra-sensory' than sense of direction, sense of time and, in the case of musical aptitude, such component primary senses as sense of absolute pitch, sense of intensity, sense of harmony, sense of rhythm and sense of tonal memory. Thousands of tests have indicated that these musical senses may have an hereditary base." "Physiologizers!" Lucifer exclaimed, contemptuously. "Let's keep our windows clean," Nina murmured. He stared at her in surprise. "My father used to say that," she explained. "He told us to keep our windows clean -- so truth can look in and out." Lucifer turned back the manuscript. He felt somehow chastened. After several paragraphs of further discussion on the hereditary aspects of the various senses, even including the inheritance through a dominant gene of the ability to taste, the manuscript went into a long analysis of the family trees of Arturo Toscanini, Kirsten Flagstad and the #th century mystic, Daniel Dunglas Home. "Please note," the manuscript emphasized, "that in all three family trees a favorable heredity and a favorable environment were perfectly blended." Nina gasped excitedly. "Oh, Lucifer -- if this project can bring the right parents together... "Human beings are not white mice!" Lucifer snapped! "They are on Mendel's Planet!" Nina seized his hand. "Think, Lucifer! Our child may be able to see things we have never dreamed of seeing! We will teach him to use his eyes from the very moment of birth -- even before!" Deep anger and resentment stirred within Lucifer, but before he could answer her, a click from the visagraph screen told them they were not alone. Huth's usually calm voice betrayed his excitement. His dark eyes glowed. "Mrs. Brill -- how would you propose to train a child so early?" "By encouraging him to use his own true senses rather than his superficial senses for his very first needs! My father raised all six of us and he used to say I was a good baby, because I never cried to be fed or changed. But maybe it was because he knew what I wanted and took care of me before I cried!" Huth insisted on sending for them immediately. There was a three-day-old Earth child at Center. Huth had the baby's records before him when they arrived. Nina, flushed with eagerness, asked  "How is the baby fed?" Huth consulted a chart. "Both formula and breast. But it doesn't appear that the mother will be able to nurse much longer." "When is the next feeding time?" "In approximately one hour." Huth took them to the nursery. Through the window, they could see that the baby was still asleep. The young mother was sitting up in her room. A tiny, thin-faced woman, she looked at them with alarm. "Is something wrong with my baby?" Nina knelt beside her chair. "Don't you know your baby is all right?" she asked gently. "I -- I thought so. But when you all walked in like this, I wasn't sure." Lucifer didn't recognize this young woman; nor did she appear to recognize him. Her eyes, still dilated, roved apprehensively from face to face. "YouVe not going to do something to my baby?" Lucifer felt a great pity for this young woman, snatched away from Earth to bear a child with an unknown mate on this strange planet. "I wouldn't harm your child," Nina told her. "I'm from San Diego -- how about you?" "Masselon, Ohio." "Now tell me," Nina asked, "is your baby awake yet?" The dilated eyes stared at Nina. "I'm... I'm not sure, but I don't think so." "That's fine. Now, please don't be scared. I want to help you and your baby. Do you trust me?" The young mother studied Nina unblinkingly. After an instant of hesitation, she nodded. "Thank you. Now, are you going to feed your baby yourself this next time?" "I'll try again; but I haven't been doing so well." "Can you tell when your baby is starting to wake up?" "I thought I could the first day or so. But then I didn't try -- I guess I got used to having my baby brought to me every four hours." "Is the baby usually crying when it is brought into the room?" The young mother smiled. "Oh, yes! She's got a strong, healthy cry!" "Will you try to feed her this time before she cries, when she first tells you that she is hungry?" "What -- what do you mean?" Nina took the young mother's thin hand between her strong, brown fingers. "You know what I mean! Don't be afraid to use what God has given you! Let's stop talking now so you can keep your thoughts with your child!" Under the donunance of Nina's personality, the woman settled back in her chair. Outside, the first rain of the morning swept over the forest and steamed up the windows. Huth stood statuesquely by the door, arms folded. The taJl nurse remained watchfully beside him. Lucifer struggled with an unaccustomed inner turmoil. Dissecting the tangle of his emptions, he was astonished to realize that his pulse was thumping with excitement. Abruptly, the young mother spoke up. "My baby is hungry. She wants to be fed." "Go feed her then!" commanded Nina. She helped the young woman from the chair. Together they led the way down the corridor. As they neared the nursery, Lucifer edged closer to them. He saw that the child was still asleep. The mother saw it, too. "But she's still asleep!" she said, bewildered. "I thought -- " "Does a child have to be awake to tell of its hunger?" Nina asked gently. The young mother went ahead of them into the nursery. She took the child from the crib and cradled it in her arms. The baby stirred, grimaced. Its lips groped in small, sucking motions. The young mother hesitated, then opened her robe and brought the baby's lips to her breast. The child began to feed contentedly. At a gesture from Nina, the others left the mother and child alone in the nursery. When they were well down the corridor, Nina burst out triumphantly, "The first contact! Child has communicated to mother. Message received and answered. Child has used primary sense of communication, rather than learning to rely on secondary!" Nina squared her shoulders proudly. "My baby won't have to cry to tell me that it's hungry or cold or wet and miserable!" Lucifer's New England conscience prodded him. If indeed there was anything to this psi heredity business, then he had again hurt someone else, unknowingly, but deeply. What would Nina say and feel when she learned that he had no psi talent to pass on to their child? But this uneasy remorse conflicted with another emotion in Lucifer: The sense of excitement that he suddenly realized had been lost somewhere back in the early years of his psi testing. Somewhere, sometime along the way the sense of wonder had gone out of his work and his life. The constant repetition of the same basic testing technique had made a familiar backyard out of -- what had Huth called it? -- the very frontier of science. Huth was speaking to him. "What do you think now. Dr. Brill? Could it be possible after all that the unorthodoxy of Earth's parapsychology might have to be shaken from its own orthodoxy?" Lucifer frowned. "I do not want to split definitions with you. But it should be obvious to any scientific mind that Miss Poteil's experiment, although interesting, was painfully inadequate in methodology. In the first place, can we determine whether the child was communicating a need, or whether a psi-positive mother had some precognition of her child's need? In the second place, would a large number of children born of psi-positive parents react with significant differt ce from a similar number of children bom of psi negatives?" "A flash of lightning can be duplicated in the laboratory," said Huth, "but it is still a flash of lightning. We recognize lightning, we admit its existence, but we do not wish to go on proving forever in the laboratory that lightning is in fact lightning. If some of your earlier scientists had been content to do that, your cities would still be illuminated by oil lamps." "A fallacious comparison!" "Not entirely sol I merely wished to make a point. It is all a matter of objective. You have seen how older children are developing their psi talents in our classes. Your wife may have shown us how to begin training at a much earlier age, when training is most important." "Still, I should think you would require more substantiation, some further testing, to support Miss Poteil's little experiment." "Of course. Do you have any suggestions. Dr. Brill?" Once more Lucifer found himself backed toward a corner. Only this time he did not try to escape. The challenge intrigued him, in spite of his determination not to become involved with this nonsense. A controlled experiment was quite a different thing... "I might have," he replied, with an effort to be casual. He plucked at his mustache. "But you must grant that a valid basis for experimentation cannot be improvised on the spur of the moment." "Improvise at your leisure, Dr. Brill." Nina was sent off to continue orientation work with Dr. Thame. Lucifer was given a small cubicle near Huth's office. It consisted of little more than a desk, a stool, three bare walls and a floor to ceiling window through which an orange rim of the planet's great sun was now shining mistily. Lucifer scribbled notes, drew crude diagrams, tore them up and started all over again. Spots of color flushed his cheeks. Though he would not have made the admission, he hadn't enjoyed himself so much in fifteen years. He didn't even notice when a new squall rustled across the wet jungle, blotting out the sun and drumming against the window. Huth came in with the attendant who brought lunch. "How many children are there here now?" Lucifer asked crisply. "I believe we have about thirty under the age of nine months." "Do you have another nursery room, like the one we visited this morning?" "We have three more in the Maternity Division." Lucifer explained his immediate needs, Huth issued orders that three more babies be brought to tht Maternity Division. Each was installed alone in a nursery. Two were placed in cribs, and soon fell asleep. The third, a boy of about eight months, refused to nap. He wasn't happy until allowed to crawl around the floor, exploring the strange wonders of the nursery. Lucifer made a quick procedural adjustment, and hoped the youngster would stay awake until feeding time. He tried to tell himself, whenever he thought about it, that he was doing all this only to point up the absurdity of Huth's theories. As feeding time neared, three bottles of heated formula were brought in warmers and placed at Lucifer's direction in rooms immediately adjacent to each of the nurseries. Two of the children were still asleep; the third had discovered a pack of disposable diapers and was systematically tearing it apart. Dr. Thame joined them to watch the experiment, and he brought Nina along. Her eyes sparkled with interest and understanding as she watched Lucifer's preparations. After one quick nod, he did not look her way again, and he stifled the thought that Nina would be watching the experiment with their own child in mind. One of the babies stirred in its sleep, and whimpered a little. "Normally," explained Dr. Thame, "a child of this age would awaken shortly and begin to cry." The baby squirmed again, then turned toward the room in which one of the bottles had been placed. Its tiny lips worked in a sucking motion. 'How wonderful!" whispered Nina. Lucifer picked up the bottle, moved slowly into the corridor. The child appeared confused. Its eyes screwed up tightly, and its face reddened. Then it jerked its head toward the new position of the bottle and repeated the sucking motion. Nina, who had followed Lucifer, squeezed his arm in excitement. He gave her the bottle, and she hurried into the nursery to reward the child. Its lips groped eagerly for the nipple. By this time, the second child was stirring. Its reactions were much slower, and more uncertain, than those of the first baby, but they followed the same pattern. Nina went on to the third child, which had been left playing on the floor of the nursery. "Lucifer! Come quickly!" she called. The child had crept over to the wall nearest the room in which its bottle had been placed. It was pawing, bewildered, at the rough surface. Ducking below the window edge, Lucifer picked up the bottle and moved it to the other side of the room. For a moment the child looked like it was about to cry. But it hitched around on its knees, sprawled flat, raised up again and crawled across the floor. When it was midway to the other side of the nursery, Lucifer switched the bottle back to its original position. The child continued its forward progress for a few feet, faltered and stopped. Its red button of a nose wrinkled, and two big tears squeezed down its round cheeks. Nina rushed into the nursery, picked up the youngster, cooed over it and thrust the nipple of the bottle between its anxious lips. "My compliments. Dr. Brill," said Huth. "Does this begin to satisfy your laws of probability?" Lucifer was determined not to show his excitement. He shrugged. "Five thousand more tests might prove something -- providing you counterposed # tests on children whose ancestry was psi negative." "We're not interested in psi negative children. Dr. Brill." Lucifer faced him squarely. "Just what are you interested in? I think we are entitled to an explanation." Huth hesitated, then nodded. "Perhaps you are." Huth's office, he stood by the window and folded his huge, bronzed arms. "My home planet," he began, "is also in the system of Capella. We are an old race, but neither decadent nor degenerative. Our physical sciences -- as you can judge from your presence here -- are at least # orbits beyond the outermost probings of science on Earth." He paced across to the door, and back to the window again. "But in our obsession and fascination with the ever new horizons of physical science, we neglected that which was potentially of far greater significance. We ignored the possibilities of psionic evolution -- we ignored them until it was al most too late!" "Too late," breathed Nina. "Is that why your mind feels like a machine?" Huth inclined his massive head in her direction. "That could be why, Mrs. Brill. What society -- or our bodies -- neglect will eventually die. It is tnie even of psi. Dr. Brill." "Can you be specific?" Lucifer challenged. "I can. If you had taken your eyes out of the laboratory long enough to look at your world as it is and has been, you would have learned that psi manifestations were quite customary on Earth during the #th and #th centuries. But your industrial age did not have much room for psionics. With Daniel Dunglas Home went the last of your great psi talents!" "Our card tests have discovered many psi positives," Lucifer interjected heatedly. "You ought to know -- you have many of them here now!" "Psi positives with thwarted, arrested or frustrated talents," replied Huth. "Psi positives who wanted to be 'normal', because that is what society demanded... Psi positives who were ashamed of have it overlooked! Yes, we have them here... and, what is more important, we have their less inhibited children!" "Your logic escapes me." "It wouldn't if you had emerged from your cubicle and looked around you among the physical sciences. Some of your more venturesome geneticists believe that man will soon be the master of his heredity and that the next five million years of evolution on Earth will be the controlled evolution of the human mind. That could mean controlled evolution toward psi. Dr. Brill -- if Earth science can ever escape the terrible drag of orthodoxy and if the unorthodox can ever learn to avoid the trap of its own dogma." Nina had been watching Huth with the unblinking intensity that was so characteristic of her in moments of total concentration. "So we are your nursery!" she exclaimed. "We produce the plants that will bring life back to your own soil!" Huth came close to one of his rare smiles. "You have admirably reduced the milleniums and mathematics of evolution to a single sentence!" He turned to Lucifer. "Is this a laboratory big enough to challenge you?" Lucifer took refuge in a question of his own. "What about your Goolies? From the shadow on Huth's face, and the faint gasp from Nina's parted lips, Lucifer knew he had made a mistake. "Where did you learn that name?" Huth asked him coldly. Lucifer was not a good liar, but he tried. "I -- I don't really know. Perhaps -- from one of your nurses or drivers... "We will accept that explanation, for the moment. Later, I trust you will volunteer another." Huth's emphasis on 'Volunteer" was almost imperceptible, yet it had the effect of two pieces of steel striking together. "You have already met one of these -- Goalies, Let us go and meet some more. Nina put out her hand. "Is this necessary?" Huth regarded her thoughtfully. "Yes, I believe it is. If we are going to work together, you should know everything." "And if we're not?" Lucifer snapped. Huth shrugged. "Then it won't make any difference, I assure you." Outside, the wet moss of the courtyard was springy underfoot. Lucifer flinched with the remembered horror of trying to breath through that moss and water. Nina took his hand. Her fingers were strong and warm. A tall attendant let them into the building. Lucifer looked down a long, sterile-white corridor, flanked by small, seemingly transparent doors. "The doors are transparent only from this side, and then only when subjected to the proper wave frequency to make them so," Huth explained. "Like the rooms we live in!" Nina burst out. Huth blinked, and assented, "Like the rooms you live in." Before Lucifer could assimilate this bit of information, Huth had stopped before the first door. Inside was a shrunken monstrosity of a creature. It had the torso of a grown woman, but its legs were bone thin, twisted and scarcely eighteen inches long. It was hairless; its face was one ovular blob of flesh, in which the eyes, mouth and nostrils were knife-edge slits. It seemed to be watching the rainstreaked window. There were two beings in the next room, apparently male and female. Both were naked, and seated cross-legged on a thick mat. They were playing a complicated game with marked and colored blocks. The woman's body was covered with a fine, brown hair. Her breasts were tiny for the dimensions of her body. Her head was also small out of all proportion, as was the male's. Lucifer saw that though both were eyeless they were playing their game rapidly and skillfully. Their hands were lumps of flesh, with just rudimentary fingers. "They are quite sentient," Huth observed. And he added with pride, "You would classify them as definite psi positives -- altogether our most successful experiment of this type!" As they neared the next door, it suddenly became opaque. Huth led them past it without comment. Nina winced, and her fingers tightened convulsively. They were led quickly down the rest of the corridor. Some of the doors were opaque. Through others, they caught glimpses of more grotesquely distorted creatures, some asleep, some lurching or crawling about their rooms. The corridor ended in a large multi-purpose type of room in which semi-human creatures of all Huth opened the door. "Go on in," he said. It took all of Lucifer's will to control his revulsion and trembling and step through that door. Nina followed. Her fingers rigid in his hand. One of the creatures nearest them turned nimbly around on one leg and hopped closer. It reached out a long arm, touched Nina's forehead. A harsh, croaking sound came from its mouth. Nina's lips quivered, but she smiled and patted the leathery hand. Others bounded and crept around them, jibbering, feeling their faces and hair, probing at their bodies with stumps of arms or with hands that seemed all fingers. "All of these people show some traces of psi," Huth explained. Again there was quiet pride in his voice. A wracking cry came from one corner of the room. A huge shape hurtled into the group around them, knocking others out of its way. Lucifer saw the wildly flopping head, then long arms reached for him and a crushing weight bore him to the floor. There was a choking odor of hot, oily flesh. And then the weight was gone. Two attendants led the creature, still mouthing angry cries, out of the room. Huth helped Lucifer to his feet. "You must forgive Tetla. He shows up well in some basic psi tests, but certain other faculties were lost in the manipulation of his chromosomes. We never quite know what he will do." The other beings had fallen back in silence during the assault. Now they began to babble in wild disharmony, each gesticulating in its own way. Lucifer's cheeks were grey, but his lips were compressed into a thin line under the stubble of his mustache. He took Nina's arm and strode out of the room. Huth followed, without comment. Out in the corridor, Lucifer confronted him. A sweep of his arm encompassed the long corridor, the room they had just left. "This -- this is a monstrous inhumanity -- a terrible perversion of science!" His voice was flinty with rage. Deep within him, the conscience of his puritan ancestry was revolted. Huth raised an admonishing hand. "Don't forget your scientific training. Dr, Brill. You can't impose the value judgements of one culture upon the framework of another." "There must be certain principles basic to all cultures!" "A true Aristotelian fallacy! Form is actual reality, matter is potential reality and the form is ever in the matter! Surely, Dr. Bill, you can rise above such ontology!" "Can you justify what you have done to these people even from your own value judgement basis?" "You treat justification as a valid entity, which leads you deeper into the morass of attempting to substantialize abstracta. We do not justify, we do! Let me clarify: "With the future of our evolution in the balance, with the unbounded horizons of the universe that will be opened by psi, we have taken certain measures. Once we postulated the genetic characteristics of psi, there was no limit to possible methodology. You have seen only two of many methods we are exploring: One, of course, is the Earth project; the second is an attempt to induce psi mutations in the offspring of certain of our own people. Naturally, since the external results of such experiments are often unpleasant, we bring the newly born infants directly to our laboratory on Melus. Nina's eyes were still wide with horror. "How do you do this thing?" "Really, Mrs. Brill, it's nothing to be so shocked about. As a matter of fact, it's only a further step in what your own experimenters do by exposing Drosophilae to X-rays and plants to colchicine. We are endeavoring by many methods not only to mutate a gene by rearranging the atoms in its molecules, but also to increase the quota of chromosomes in certain cells. The difficulty, as yet, is to single out the right string of chromosomes or to hit the right gene and influence it toward the desired psi mutation. We are still groping in the dark, simply increasing the chances that one or another gene, at random, will psi mutate." As Huth spoke, he had been leading them toward a side exit. A vehicle was waiting. Huth put his hand on Lucifer's shoulder. "We did not bring you to Melus, Dr. Brill, merely to reproduce your own psi characteristics. We feel that your background will enable you to make many notable contributions, once you become oriented. Already you have justified this feeling. Your people will do things for you and Mrs. Brill that they would "I want nothing more to do with this project." "I am sure you will recognize your present reaction as purely emotional, and come quickly to realize that here you have the answer to a true scientist's dream -- a laboratory on the scale of life itself! For twenty years you have taken timid steps around the periphery of your science. Now you are at the heart of it!" What should he believe? What should he do? Lucifer walked slowly around the small clearing behind their quarters. He stared, for the most part unseeingly, through the force field and into the shadows of the forest. His shoulder brushed the invisible barricade, and the shock broke the rhythm of his stride. What should he believe? This question bubbled most frequently to the roiled surface of his thoughts. With belief would come the mental framework, the pattern for action. It was disturbing and confusing that credo should be so important to a scientific mind. Couldn't facts take form without credo? Did facts shape the framework, or were they molded to conform to it? Einstein made truth relative to its own framework, but which came first -- the framework or the truth? And if the answer was framework, could there be truth? Perhaps the childhood riddle of the chicken and the egg could have cosmic implications. A vagrant phrase from a long-ago literature class came back to prod him now: To an egg the chicken is merely the means of producing another egg. Samuel Butler. A shaft of sunlight speared down through the whispering canopy of branches high above him. It kindled to life a spot of riotous color in the perpetual shadow world at the base of the great trees. Blossoms of delicate blue, petals flecked with orange and gold. Leaves so green they brought an ache of loneliness for a forgotten spring morning of youth. What should he believe? With sudden percipience, Lucifer knew that he had moved in the shadows for a long time. The riotous dreams of youth, the exciting sense of being a pioneer among pioneers, had become like a bit of stop-motion film. It preserved the form, without the life or action. A dream cannot be framed and kept behind glass. It cannot be static. To remain, it must change. Parapsychology had been the high road. The glorious adventure. It had made the son of a New England minister an explorer on a new frontier. But does a frontier of science have purpose other than to lead to an infinite succession of new frontiers? Had he remained too long on one frontier? The unorthodox becomes the orthodox. The theory crustifies into the dogma. The method becomes methodology. Was this forever to be the entrapment of science? There were an infinite number of exploratory possibilities on this frontier of today; and, for all their challenge, they could be a soporific. The frontier itself was finite. But what about the next frontier? And the next? And the next? Huth could be right, in this at least: Perhaps parapsychology had been too long exploring the unknown of its present frontier. Some must remain behind to develop and consolidate. But others must keep moving on! To look forever beyond the next horizon! There was the challenge. There was the dream forever bright. Lucifer thought of his crude experiment with the psi positive children, and he admitted now what he had denied at the time : Not for a decade had he been so excited by any experiment ; it had brought back the wonder of the moment when an aimless undergraduate had first come upon the Rhine card tests. Lord, that was more than twenty years ago! For twenty years he had been walking in Rhine's shadow. And his personal, private dreams had never lived to see sunlight. When would science learn to use genius without being smothered by it? Freud and Einstein had left a vision to their sciences, not a citadel. They had tried to cast a light, not a shadow. Rhine had brought psi into his laboratory to demonstrate its scientific validity. Now, the physicist, the biochemist, the mathematician and, yes, the geneticist -- all of them, must take this validity into their own laboratories. The parapsychologist must become the physical scientist; the physical scientist must become the parapsychologist. Only from the total crucible of science could psi emerge in a useful form. But what of Huth, and Mendel's Planet? However it had been brought together, whatever one thought of it, this living laboratory was now a fact. Psi was being mated to psi; children were being born, children with a psi potential that could be trained into a power of unknown magnitude. Huth had described it well: A laboratory on the scale of life itself! Huth knew his semantics, all right. The barbs of his words got under the skin, hooked and held fast. How pallid an Earth laboratory would seem after Mendel's Planet. The symbol cards seemed to have lost their meaning. A dozen projects clamored to reach the surface of Lucifer's thinking. Each cried out its siren challenge; each demanded experimentation. How much there was to do here on Mendel's Planet! Now, Nina was at his side, and she said gently, "It's raining again, Lucifer. Won't you come in?" The rain had returned, and the big, splashing drops hadn't fallen into his thoughts. But they were coursing in streams down his cheeks, dripping from his eyebrows. He brushed them away, and stared at the forest. The shadows had merged. The flowering beauty was like a mirage that had never been, and never could be. There was only the wash of the rain on the forest roof, the drip-drop-drip on the molding carpet of dead leaves. that night. The click in the visagraph, the deeper blackness of the walls, the silent opening of the casement window -- these were the now recognizable signs of his coming. Lucifer hadn't been able to sleep. Nina had already gone to bed, after pressing her lips to his cheek in a swift gesture that left him more unsettled than ever. When he realized that Fetzer was coming, Lucifer sat up on the couch and drew the sheet around his shoulders. In a moment the stocky figure squeezed through the window. "Hi, there," Fetzer called softly. "You awake. Dr. Brill?" "I haven't slept." "How'd things go today?" How had things gone? "I'm not sure," Lucifer evaded. "You got it all figured out?" "Well -- not exactly." Lucifer was stunned at his own reluctance to discuss matters with Fetzer. Anything less than total frankness was a new facet of himself. It was one he didn't like. But how could he share his indecision? "We had an organization meeting after I left here last night," Fetzer said. "All the section leaders made it this time. We're set to pull the plug any time you say?" "Pull... Oh, I hadn't realized... What do you think you can do?" "Plenty. We've learned to shortcircuit the force fields in a hurry, and we can spring over a thousand men inside of two minutes. Within five minutes more, we'd be able to hit Center and the landing field." Lucifer felt himself withdrawing even more. He could see the whole psi project swept away in turmoil. Then he thought of Huth's men, so towering in their stature, so well organized, so completely equipped by a fantastically advanced technology. The revolt would be brutally crushed. "You can't do it!" he told Fetzer. "Huh?" The stocky figure tensed. "Spell it out. Doc." "You wouldn't have a chance!" "We've got a few tricks. There's a lot of vets in this bunch." "It would be suicide." Fetzer hunched closer to the couch. "Maybe it would, maybe it wouldn't. But a man can't always stop to think of things like that. You do what you got to do." The words triggered a release, and Lucifer started to talk. With an eloquence that would have astounded his graduate students at Western University, Lucifer drew a word picture of the psi project and the theory behind it. As he talked, Nina came in quietly and sat on the couch beside him, drawing up her knees inside her short gown. Lucifer spoke of their own experiments with the babies, and of evolution foreshortened through understanding and application of Hardy's Law. Only when he came to the radiation and chemical phases of the psi project, to the pitiable Goolies, did his flow of words falter. He tried to pick up quickly with analysis of what training would do for their own children. But the nagging awareness of this second dishonesty, the knowledge that Nina knew what he had done and was watching him in the darkness, broke the flow of thought and his explanation trailed off into awkward silence. Albert Fetzer didn't say anything. He squatted on his heels, a humped blur in the darkness of the room. Lucifer could feel the probe of his eyes and darting mind. "So that's it," Fetzer said at last. "We guessed some of it, but we couldn't fill in the missing pieces. You learned a lot. Doc." "There's so much I haven't yet learned." "You learned enough." "Enough for what?" "We're going to pull that plug, remember?" "No!" Lucifer stood up in his agitation. "There must be another way -- a better way." "You name it." "Well -- naturally I'd have to think more about it. Everything here is so new to me." Fetzer stepped closer to him. His shadow was shorter even than Lucifer's, but it bulked with unseen strength, "Anything else, Doc?" "I don't understand." "You've gone for this stuff, haven't you." Lucifer recoiled from the bluntness of the question. "I am a scientist," he replied. "Or at least I have always assumed that. These ideas are as strange to me as they are to you, but Tm trying to understand and evaluate them. Isn't that important?" "Not to me it isn't -- not right now. I think the other boys will feel the same." "You don't care what all this may mean?" "Nope. Not yet, anyway. I'm not a scientist. Dr. Brill. Maybe I'm not even a very smart guy and maybe I'm just as glad of it, because my feet are on the ground and I know where I want them to go. Sure, this psi stuff could be big, mighty big. Our kids could go a long way with it. I can see that. But I'm a man, not a guinea pig. I happen to go for the woman they teamed me up with, and she feels the same way about me. That's true of most of the folks here. But we're not breeding kids for someone else. We'd rather run our own show. Guess you professors have been away from ordinary people too long to realize that. You should listen to some of our boys who fought with the underground in the last war. Makes you feel kind of good about people." "Don't you realize that Huth can destroy all of you?" "I'm not the hero type. Dr. Brill. In the war, I always kept my head down and squeezed as deep in the mud as I could. But there's some things you have to do, no matter how cold your stomach feels about it." "When do you plan to do this?" From the forest came a wild, plaintive cry. Fetzer took a quick step toward the window, then paused. "You better come with me -- both of you." Lucifer drew back. "Where? Why?" "I don't like to do this. Doc. But I don't like the way you sound, either. We can't take any chances." "You don't think..." "I don't know. I'm sorry, but I don't know enough about your kind. Hurry up, now." Lucifer still held back, but Nina stood up and moved wordlessly toward the window. Fetzer's voice toughened. "Make it easy on yourself. Doc. You're coming along, one way or the other." His legs shaking, Lucifer followed Nina through the window. T he warp m the force field was at the far comer of the enclosure. At a command from Fetzer, they dropped to their knees and crawled through. A voice whispered a challenge. Fetzer answered, and they proceeded, single file, deeper into the forest. The leader guided them with a pinpoint of light escaping from his cupped hand. They followed a winding course around the root structures of the trees. Lucifer tripped once and fell sprawling into the wet, leathery leaves. As he got up, the spider loop of a vine caught him around the throat and flipped him again. "Pick up your feet and keep your head down," Fetzer warned impatiently. Their direction took them to a shallow stream, and they splashed up the middle of it for a hundred yards. The cacophony of night sounds retreated before them, closed in behind them. The rooftop of intermeshed branches and leaves dripped endlessly. Some alien creature followed them through the branches, yapping in a strident monotone. They emerged from the stream to crawl into a semi-cave formed by the enjoining roots of two great trees. Vegetation had webbed over the roots until even the dropping of water was cut off. The light of a guttering torch showed several men waiting for them. A few carried strange weapons stolen from Huth's men. Others were armed with vicious looking clubs, and long, needle-pointed stakes. It's fantastic, thought Lucifer. Cavemen prepared to challenge a mechanized force. Cavemen forty light years from home. When they saw Nina, the men stood up, surprised, uneasy. Fetzer went into some detail on what Lucifer had told him. One of the men swore, and smashed the head of his club on the sodden floor of the cave. A balding man seated Nina on a hummock in one corner of the cave. Ignoring Lucifer, they plunged into discussion of their plans. None could see any reason for further delay. The supply ship had been gone for some time, and might return soon. Its crew would add strength to Huth's base force, which numbered around eight hundred, including nurses, doctors and various technical personnel. To Lucifer, the plan sounded bold. Pathetically bold. A sizeable group would break out of their quarters and flee into the forest, drawing a portion of Huth's men in pursuit. Another group would attack Center, making it appear that this was the chief point of concentration. After delaying as long as possible, the main force would hit the landing field and try to capture the auxiliary spaceship. The men knew they couldn't handle the ship, but their work around the field had taught them enough about it to know that its armament could give them control of the base. As Lucifer listened, a sense of familiarity kept tugging at him. It was a strange sensation that he had been through something like this before. But that was ridiculous. He'd never been any closer to military action than rejection by his draftboard, which had stupidly considered parapsychology non-essential. The feeling persisted, and suddenly he identified it: Hempstead House, New London, Conn. The stories he had been told in childhood about the underground railroad and the abolitionist meetings held by the few who believed men do something about it! The memory came to him across thirty-five years of his life, and half the span of the galaxy. It came with an impact that snapped something inside him, to bring the entity, the changing personality that was himself, into focus again. But it wasn't the same focus as before. It would never be. Yet he felt more a whole person than ever before, and within him there was a surging current that could not be held back. Hempstead House had been a verity that could not be fitted into any neat cubicle of orthodoxy. New England ministers and spinsters, businessmen and farmers -- all of them motivated by a life force that couldn't be duplicated in any laboratory. The same life force was in this tree cave tonight, far away from Earth. It would go with men forever, through all space and time. It would go with Lucifer Brill, too -- to the end of this experience, to whatever new frontiers of science he might live to reach. It would prevent the vision from becoming the still-life picture, the theory from crystalizing into dogma. As long as the force lived in any man, it had the potential of leading all men to freedom. Psi was an unknown part of that life force. It could not always remain in the laboratory. It must bring freedom from blindness, freedom from the cubicles that restricted each man, each science. It was a weapon   . A weapon! Good Lord, why not? Lucifer stepped into the center of the group before he knew what he was going to say. But the words came: "Wait... there may be a better way -- if you have the courage to try it!" Fetzer eyed him sceptically. "We don't have much time. Doc." "Then you must make time! It's your only chance -- our only chance!" The men were silent, uncertain. "Go ahead," Fetzer said. "But make it fast." "Would you fight with a knife if you had a machine gun? Would you attack on horseback if you had a jet loaded with atom bombs?" "Keep talking," said Fetzer. "The answer is obvious. You would use the best weapon available. Yet here you sit with clubs and wooden spears, ignoring a weapon so potentially powerful that it makes our H-Bomb, or some undoubtedly greater weapon of Huth's, seem like an old crossbow!" He had their attention now. He felt the force of concentration on his words. He sensed the awareness in Nina, though her eyes were hidden in the shadows beyond the wavering circle of torchlight. "Think of what I learned from Huth -- what Albert Fetzer has told you. Every person was brought here because they were psi positives, because they possessed some individual psi talent. Some of you have been ashamed of that talent. Perhaps you tried to hide it back on Earth -- because it made you different from other people. But you know something about it. You may have learned more about it -- even experimented with it -- during your months and years on this planet. You may know what even limited talents have done in perception, clairvoyance and the moving of objects through telekinesis. "These things were done by individual people, operating, as we might say, on single generators. "But now for the first time in history we have more than three thousand psi talents grouped together in one small area. "What if all the psi power here could be focused on one objective? All the men and women of Mendel's Planet -- all the children -- especially the children!... focusing their combined power! "Wouldn't that give us the force of three thousand generators -- fused into one unit? Instead of moving a chair across the room, making a table jump, levitating a person -- why couldn't a building be moved? A spaceship crushed? An attacking force cut down like grass under an invisible mower? "Gentlemen, is there any limit to the power of a psi focus? "If a psi focus is possible, we have our own world to win -- the frontiers of infinity to explore...  The silence within the tree-cave lasted for an eternity. Even the breathing of the men was hushed as each struggled with this new concept. His emotional fire spent in the greatest effort of his life, Lucifer stood limp and awkward in the center of the circle, looking around at the set faces. Their eyes were fixed on the humus beneath their crossed legs. Faintly, high above the tree-cave, the wind moaned over the forest canopy, and a new wash of rain approached. It was a cold sound, though the night was steaming hot. There was a stir in the shadows, and Nina stepped between two men to join him in the circle. Her fists were clenched. "What's the matter," she cried, "don't you have faith in yourselves? Are you afraid to fight with a new weapon?" The faces turned up toward her. "Look at that torch!" she commanded. "Now, put it out! All of us together put it out!" She turned toward the torch, which had been thrust into a fibrous root structure. She halfclosed her eyes. Her lips stretched taut; her fingers knotted and unknotted in an agony of concentration. The flame flickered violently in the still air of the cave, but it did not go out. "You're not helping me!" Nina cried; "I'm not strong enough alone -- none of us are! Please!" Abruptly, the torch twisted in its base, the wood snapped with the crack of a rifle shot. The tree-cave was dark. Nina's voice was spent, triumphant. "See! Now do you have faith in yourselves? Didn't you feel what Dr. Brill meant by a psi focus? Think of what it will be like to be in a focus of three thousand minds! Are you still afraid?" A man groped his way to the broken remnant of the torch. He re-lit the upper portion. "I'm thinking of my own kid," he said. "I've seen what he can do all by himself." Fetzer spoke up. "Fve tried it myself. I can't do it always, but sometimes it happens. I don't know why, but it happens." One after another the men spoke out, digging into hidden memories for some personal or observed experience. "My wife was a kick," recalled a scrawny little man with a huge nose. "Not the woman I got me now, but the one I had back in Portland. She never would read no cards, but when she got mad, all hell would bust loose! Once we both got mad the same time, and you never saw so much stuff zinging around! The neighbors called the cops." They fell silent again, thinking. Nina slipped her hand into Lucifer's. It was icy cold. "You'd better sit down," he told her. She shook her head. Then Fetzer spoke up. "How could we try this thing, Doc?" It was the question Lucifer had been hoping for, and fearing. The problems ahead were piling up. He was a teacher, a scientist, not a leader. But he couldn't let his doubts show now. "We can test it tomorrow night -- if you can get word to all the people by that time." "We can," Once committed, the men plunged quickly into new plans. The guard tower on the hill behind the compound was picked for the first target. Almost everyone could see it from their own quarters. And it was large enough to provide a valid test for Lucifer's psi focus theory. The searchlight that always blazed on with the coming of dusk would be the signal. "If it works," said Fetzer, "we've got to be ready to go all the way. They might not know what happened exactly, but you can be sure they'll move in and clamp down fast." It was decided that a modified version of the original attack plan would be followed if the experiment succeeded. Only this time the diversionary forces would hit the Center and the small spaceport, while the main effort would be concentrated on getting the rest of the people into a clearing just outside the compound. From there they would try to function as a psi unit. The wail of a forest animal drifted through the night. "The boys are getting ready to short the field again," Fetzer explained. "We'd better get back." He held out his hand to Lucifer. "Sorry, Doc." They made good time back to the compound, and the group split up as they approached it. Fetzer took Nina and Lucifer to their quarters and showed them how to locate the warp. "So long," he said. "Good luck to us all." Nina and Lucifer ducked through the warp, but did not go immediately inside. They watched the clouds shred apart, and the innight. "I wonder where Earth is?" Nina whispered. "We couldn't see it if we knew." "Do you think we'll ever get back, Lucifer?" "I don't know." She slipped her arm through his. "Maybe I shouldn't say this, but I have a feeling that we won't. That we will never see our own sun rise again." He was silent, feeling the weight of her words, the unknown to come, the burden of his responsibility. "It was hard for me to say that," she continued quietly. "I loved Earth. I loved its beauty and its ugliness. I loved its poor blind people. I loved them all, for I was part of them, and my eyes belonged to them. I could never hate anyone." She put her cheek against his, and her breath was warmer than the warmth of the night. Lucifer did not draw away. He asked, "Do you have a sense of what may happen tomorrow?" "Only a sense of much pain. Beyond that, I can't see. It may be just as well. Are you afraid, Lucifer?" "A little." "It is good to be a little afraid, always." "What about you -- are you ever afraid, Nina?" It was the first time he had spoken the name of this strange woman who bore his child. "I am afraid, but I am at peace, too. If we do not come through this, there will be nothing more to the end of time. But if we do, we will have a child who can see, and its life will belong to us. Isn't that a wonderful thought?" Lucifer trembled under the added burden, but he thrust it from his mind, lest she perceive it there. Time enough for her to know the truth when they knew the future. "We'd better go in," he said. Her cheek turned. Her mouth found his. shortly after breakfast, Lucifer was already at work in front of the visagraph screen. He held up a sheet of scribbling, and forced himself to speak with animation. "Here are some further possibilities based on our findings of yesterday. Can we work on them here today?" Huth looked interested. "Along what lines are you proceeding. Dr. Brill?" "All the primary needs and functions of a child could be related to psi, just as well as the feeding. I am intrigued by the possibility of stimulus and response in the prenatal stage. Mrs. Brill believes she has heard or read that thumb-sucking begins within the womb. Could you verify this with Dr. Thame? If it is indeed the case, the need expressed by the foetus in sucking its thumb might be ansvered psionically by a perceptive mother, thus strengthening the psi sense and building reliance on it at an even earlier stage of development." "Splendid, Dr. Brill!" Lucifer pointed to the stack of books beside him on the couch. "Earlier this morning, I asked for some works on the infant brain, and several books on electroencephalography were delivered by the tubicular. In scanning them, I find several items that may be fruitful for future research. For example, electrodes attached to the belly of a pregnant woman in the eighth month of gestation record an irregular pattern of delta waves. It also appears that both delta and theta are typically infantile rhythms, and that dieta activity is early associated with such non-visual stimulation as pleasure, pain and frustration. The pathways on this frontier go in many directions." "Follow them where you will!" There was deep satisfaction in Huth's voice. "May I say. Dr. Brill, that I have misjudged the potential adaptability of the Earth scientific mind, when it is given proper stimulus and motivation. Your progress has been remarkable, truly remarkable! Would you be content to return to your old cubicle?" "No," Lucifer answered steadily. "I would not." The day dragged endlessly, even with the research to occupy his attention. It might have been easier if he could have talked with Nina about what lay ahead, but he dared not risk a chance word being monitored. They could only try to talk casually about themselves and the research. As the minutes crawled by, new doubts tormented him. Would Fetzer and his men be able to contact everyone? Would the people believe enough in their own power to make a serious attempt at focusing it on the guard tower? If the test failed, he had no doubts that the men would go ahead with their original plan. Nina smiled whenever their eyes met, but for all its strength her dark face showed the strain of waiting. Near the end of the day, she sat beside him, brushed her lips against the edge of his mustache, and let them creep up to his ear. "I love you," she whispered. "I want to say it now, and then think only of what we must try to do." Rain came with the first of dusk. It had been holding back since mid-day, building up rolling black thunderheads. Now it came with such fury that it blotted out the view of the compound and the guard tower. Nina looked stricken. "The signal!" she whispered. "What will we do?" Lucifer could only stare through the rain-washed window and repeat to himself the fragment of a prayer he had learned from his father. With deepening of dusk, the rain lifted a little, but they still couldn't know whether the light would be visible. A sudden gust could blot it out. Huth called on the visagraph. "I will send a car for you," he said." I thought it might be pleasant to dine together and pass this miserable evening in stimulating conversation!" "Thank you," said Lucifer. He hoped his concern didn't show. From the comer of his eye he could see Nina by the window, straining to catch the first glimpse of the signal light. He must delay Huth in sending for them! Lucifer picked up a book. "I will bring this along," he said. "This afternoon I encountered another concept that may help .  As he had hoped, Huth could not resist the bait. "That's most interesting, Dr, Brill." "It has to do with what might be called the relationship between the anatomical maturing of the brain and the changing of rhythm patterns as the child grows older. This has not been applied to psi patterns -- " "By all means, let's discuss it, Dr. Brill! Now -- " "Another factor," Lucifer continued desperately, "may be the alpha rhythm patterns in a child. While these emerge very infrequently below the age of three, and do not appear with regularity until around the age of eleven, there is evidence to indicate that alpha rhythm characteristics are hereditary, and that... As Lucifer talked, he saw that Nina's body had become rigid, that her fingers were extended and shaking, with the frenzy of a drowning person trying to reach something just beyond his grasp... and that environmental factors may affect the frequency of alpha rhythms during the period of childhood. For example, two uniovular twins -- " A cry of pain escaped from Nina's lips. Huth showed he had heard it. "Is something wrong. Dr. Brill?" "Mrs. Brill may have fallen -- I will -- " And then it came, more a rending than an explosion. It was like a gigantic steel beam snapping apart from an irresistible pressure within its molecules. Their dwelling and the ground beneath it shuddered. Nina cried out again, a cry in which agony and triumph were one. Huth leaped back from the screen. A terrible rage was stamped on his bronze features. "Dr. Brill, if you are responsible for whatever has happened..." The screen went dark. Lucifer rushed to the window, tore Nina away from it. He caught a glimpse of white flames in the darkness. "Hurry! Through the warp!" he shouted. She followed woodenly, in a state of psychic shock. Her head struck the edge of the warp. Lucifer had to make her bend in order to get through. The drenching rain revived her a little. "Oh, Lucifer... It hurt me so... I tried so hard..." She was sobbing, and her tears became part of the rain on her cheeks. "It was like trying to swim against the tide of all the oceans in the universe. And the tide was pushing me back -- and then, all of a sudden, the tide was with me -- and I was tumbled and choked -- in breakers as high as the stars." She pressed hard against him, her strong body contorting in a spasm that was more than muscular. Words tore themselves from lips that quivered and twisted: "Dear God! We've never lived before! A new world, and we're not strong enough to live there, Lucifer -- Not strong enough yet! I can't go back to it -- but I want to -- I want to so much." pound, just within the fringe of the forest. As they ran, other shadow forms joined them in the scramble toward the meeting place. Children, awed momentarily to silence, ran nimbly ahead of their parents. A baby wailed. Seachlights probed through the rain, thrusting at the forest. Blocks of light and shadow flickered between the trees. It was like a film running wild in its projector. The light in the bow of the spaceship blazed on, and the misty twilight became a phosphorescent that arched up to the churning black clouds. A shouting came from the direction of Center. The first attack group had struck. Sounds of the second attack came from the area of the spaceship. The dome of light shimmered, then steadied, with eye-aching brightness. The second diversionaiy group, the one led by the little man with the huge nose, was now engaged. The clearing opened ahead. It already teemed with activity. Fetzer and his sector leaders were channeling all comers into groups of about fifty, each under one of the leaders. The groups were fanned out along the edge of the clearing, facing toward the compound. Except for the muted crying of the very young, and the low-voiced commands from the sector leaders, the groups were quiet. Fetzer ran to Lucifer. "Better stay with me. This is your show from now on! Just tell me what you want us to do, and ITl pass the signal along. My God! Did you see what happened to the guard tower?" "Some of it." "Do you think we can do anything like that again?" Lucifer looked over the nearest group. Many of the adults showed the same shock he had seen in Nina The children were no longer so awed, and their eyes were strangely bright. "I don't know what we can do again," he answered. "And I'm not sure I want to know." The clearing filled rapidly. Each sector leader's group was separated by about ten yards from the next, and all formed an uneven, convex line some four hundred yards from end to end. "All set. Doc," said Fetzer. He fired a cylindrical weapon, and a streak of orange light curved over the compound. "That's to give our boys a chance to get back into the woods -- those that still can. They'll be ready to hit again -- if this other thing doesn't work." He waited for orders. Lucifer stared across the compound. The fear in his stomach made him feel like retching. These people were waiting for him to lead! Incredible. "You have to go on now," Nina said. His stomach was still sick, but he managed to smile at her. Through the slackening downpour he saw the bare walls and flat roof of Center. "The Center' he told Fetzer. Word leaped from group to group. Center. Center. Children picked it up excitedly. "Now' said Lucifer. Fetzer brought his arm down sharply. Lucifer saw the people around him pull themselves together for another effort. Nina looked faint. Nothing happened. Most of the children were bouncing with excitement. They still hadn't joined the psi focus. Lucifer ran up to a freckle-faced boy of about five. "Let's have some fun' he said. "Blow up Center just like you did the guard tower!" The words rippled from child to child, spoken and unspoken. Now it was a game instead of an awesome duty. Hey, Tommy, this is going to be neat. Blow up Center! Wow! Watch me. Aw, you aren't so hot! Quit shovin', will ya'? I can't see. Center. Blow up Center! Oh, boy! Lucifer gripped the freckled boy by the shoulders. "All right," he said, "you show them all... Now!" The boy's eyes glowed brighter. He'd show 'em. Right here in front of Mom and Dad. You bet he would! Just watch. As child after child joined the psi focus, each grew quiet. In some deep center of his being, Lucifer had the sense of a dark, rushing wind, a nightmare sense of falling into a void, and screaming, though you knew you would never reach the bottom. Once again came that rending crack. Center disintegrated. There were no flying fragments. Just disintegration. A white light that was whiter than light. The children buzzed ecstatically. Their parents were numb and silent. Lucifer knew that if Huth still lived, he must be reorganizing his concept of what had originally happened. His reasoning would soon bring him to the truth. There was a period of quiet. It strengthened in Lucifer the belief that Huth was alive and calmly directing the operation. He found himself hoping that Huth, indeed, was alive. He had a respect for the man that bordered on a sense of kinship. The quiet was broken as Huth's men fanned in small groups through the compound. They moved with great, leaping strides. One squad probed toward the clearing. When its leader realized how many Earth people were assembled there, he signalled for a quick retreat toward the spaceship. Again there was stillness. "What now. Doc?" asked Fetzer. He looked five years older. "Shall we blast that ship before it opens up on us?" Lucifer shook his head. "I don't think it will open up -- not just yet. This project means too much to Huth. He'll try to save as much of it as possible." Once more groups of Huth's men scattered through the compound. This time the groups were larger. They followed converging courses that would end at the clearing. "They're rushing us!" cried Fetzer. "Stop them!" The command leaped from sector leader to sector leader. Lucifer picked up the freckled boy so that he could see across the compound. "Now we'll have some more fun," he said. "Those men are trying to get here. Let's see if you can stop them." "Betcha we can!" Stop 'em! Stop 'em! Word of the new game spread psionically from child to child, and was repeated vocally. One tiny girl bounced up and down in glee, dancing, first on one foot and then the other, as if she were skipping rope. A shrill whistle launched the attack. Five squads converged on the clearing. The bronze faces of Huth's men were impassive. Their long legs covered nearly three yards at a stride. Each man carried a short, silver-colored tube. Once again the adults were first to project themselves into psi focus. But this time the children were not so slow to join and reinforce them. The rain had stopped. The hot, humid air was motionless. And it was a motionless wind that seemed to strike Huth's men. They were swept off their feet and spun around as if caught in a tornado. The huge leader of the squad bearing down on Lucifer's sector shot backward in a rising trajectory that cleared the compound. He screamed once. A hoarse, wild scream. The freckled boy in Lucifer's arms clapped his chubby hands. Some of Huth's men smashed into dwellings and fell in broken heaps. Others landed in open spaces and rolled like tumbleweeds. The survivors crawled or ran, screaming and sobbing, toward the spaceship. "We'd better get that ship now!" Fetzer urged. "Perhaps Huth will try to talk to us first." Five minutes passed. No sign came from Huth. "They're up to something," said Fetzer. "Let's not wait anymore." The gates of one of the administration training buildings swung open, and the Goolies poured out, driven and prodded by their attendants. They came straight toward the clearing, running in weird, disjointed strides or bounding along on footless stumps of legs. Monstrous heads rolled loosely, snapping from shoulder to shoulder, from chest to back. Tiny, hairless, eyeless heads were fixed and rigid. Slack mouths gaped and drooled. Lipless mouths bared perpetual smiles. Dwarfed, naked creatures bumped against the knees of eight-foot giants. It was an unbelievable synthesis of every nightmare since time began. The freckled boy wrapped his arms around Lucifer's neck. His small body shuddered. Lucifer felt his own stomach twist with the remembered horror, but he held fast to reason. The Goolies were in themselves no danger. It was only their psychological effect. Huth was shrewd. He knew well the Earth framework of prejudice. If they could break up the psi focus, his own men could crash in behind them. Confinning this line of reason, Huth's men were forming again on the outskirts of the compound. "Don't let them reach the clearing!" he told Fetzer. Fetzer vaved his signal. Though shaken, the adults, too, responded to reason. They tried to focus. Children pressed against their legs, sobbing. A focus seemed to form, but weakly. It was like an exhausted, distraught athlete trying to pull himself together. The Goolies faltered, appeared to lose some momentum and balance. The attendants drove them forward again. They came on as though wading against a strong current. "Don't be afraid," Lucifer told the boy. "They really can't hurt you." The small body continued to tremble. "Try to stop them... try!" "I want my Mommy..." Nina took the boy into her own arms. She cradled his face against her breasts, pressed her lips to his cheek. "Just keep your eyes closed," she cooed gently. "Everything is all right now." She stroked the wiry red hair, and murmured. "You don't have to look to stop them, do you? Why, you can stop them any time you want to! Let's tell all the other boys and girls to keep their eyes closed -- and stop those people so they can't hurt Mommy and Daddy! Here, I'll help you -- we'll do it together." Nina pressed her cheek tightly to the child's, and closed her eyes. The boy stopped trembling. The Goolies slowed. It became harder and harder for them to move against the invisible current. An attendant picked up one of the smaller creatures and hurled it forward. In midair, the Goolie rebounded and knocked the attendant off his feet. The psi current broke loose. Clusters of bodies flew in all directions, like the exploding fragments of a grenade, crashing in and through the metal walls of the compound buildings. And then all was still, except for a few broken moans. They were the loneliest sounds Lucifer had ever heard. He saw Huth, palms outstretched, walking steadily toward the clearing. "Let him come," said Lucifer. "I will talk to him." They met about thirty yards in front of the clearing. Huth's bronze features were chiseled deep with new lines. "Dr. Brill," he said, "I am shocked and disappointed. I thought you had come to believe in this great experiment." "There is no longer a question of belief -- its success to this point is very obvious." "Then why do you destroy it?" "I am trying to save it." "I don't understand," said Huth. But there was hope in his eyes. "You have learned much about Earth and its people, but there is one thing you failed to learn : Man may be blind, warped and prejudiced, but his frameworks can be changed, and he must -- above all -- he must control his own destiny. This law has been proved so often through our history that I am surprised you missed it." Huth bowed his head to acknowledge the rebuke. "Then what do you see in the future of this project?" "I see great problems, almost insurmountable obstacles; and the threshold of a vast unknown. I see our people slowly approaching that threshold -- to find their own future." Huth looked silently over the compound, over the shell of the project to which he had dedicated his life, and not even his tremendous will could keep his shoulders from sagging. "I cannot say that I truly disagree with you. Dr. Brill. But my own culture views this project from its own framework. I, too, had to fight with prejudice to keep it going. We are a mighty race, in control of a great section of the galaxy, and I doubt that you could hold out against our full power, as you have done tonight against a fragment of it on this isolated outpost." "There seems to be a new power on this tiny planet. A power greater than any of us can yet conceive," Lucifer answered calmly. "That may be; but there is the extreme likelihood of its total destruction before you can find out how to use it. I could not prevent this destruction if I tried -- once it is known what happened here tonight. My people, too, have a destiny, and they are determined to pursue it." A great rumble, a mighty rush of air, swept them off their feet. The spaceship rose in a straight vertical line and leveled off some five hundred feet above the clearing. Its prow swung toward the Earth people. A finger of blue flame probed downward. Huth heaved himself to his feet. "No! No!" he shouted. "Oh, you fools..." The blue flame broadened at its extremity, until it resembled a long, inverted funnel. When it touched the ground, it reduced to grey ash a fifty foot area of buildings and trees. There was no burning, no odor, no smoke. Just a sifting of ashes that fell like snowflakes. Huth cried out in agony at this destruction of his dream. He ran toward the path of the flame, waving his arms. In the instant before the flame reached him, Huth stood motionless, arms outstretched, face straining upward, the great muscles of his neck standing out in rigid cords. And then his statuesque body was a sifting handful of grey ash, falling gently to the damp ground. The flame leaped forward. Lucifer got to his feet. He could think only one thought: That he must try to stand upright with as much dignity as possible. He heard Nina's voice, but couldn't make out the words. They were followed by a shrill, whistling sound. Surprisingly, the sound grew fainter, like a siren fading into the distance. Lucifer realized he had closed his eyes. He opened them and saw the spaceship streaking upward. It tumbled end over end, out of control. The blue funnel of flame whipped in wild circles, hissing against the clouds. The ship disappeared momentarily behind a cloud bank, then could be seen again, glowing with an incandesSuddenly it burst into a shower of sparks that flared like a dying meteor, and fell away into nothingness. In the clearing behind Lucifer, children chattered gleefully. L ucifer stood by the window and listened in silence as Albert Fetzer made his report. The Earth people had returned to their quarters. Those whose dwellings had been destroyed or badly damaged were sheltered with friends for the night. Fifty-three of Huth's men and thirty of the women had survived. A score of Goolies had come crawling and whimpering out of the forest. All were put under guard in one of the training buildings. Dr. Thame, his own shoulder smashed, was helping with the injured. A twenty-four hour guard was set up to watch for return of the supply ship, or any other that might come. "What about the children?" Lucifer asked. "Mostly asleep. Some of them got a little frisky and started knocking over things -- until their mothers marched them off to bed." Lucifer shivered, and he was not cold. "You'd better get some sleep," he told Fetzer. "We'll meet with the section leaders early in the morning." When Fetzer was gone, Lucifer remained by the window. Nina came out of the bedroom to join him. Together they watched the clouds close out the stars, listened to the sweep of the rising wind and the drumbeat of the returning rain. The eternal rain. "Our world," said Nina. "Our new world." Lucifer started to answer, then could not speak. The weight of his thoughts was too great a burden to ease with words. Nina put her arm around him. "A frontier must always be like this," she said. But what a frontier! There were the physical problems of existence, with Huth's administration and most of his technology gone. There was the moment when the supply ship would return, when a great fleet of ships might come to see what had happened to the project. Yet those problems seemed like foothills to the towering peaks ahead, rising in range after range, beyond the outermost perimeter of thought. As Lucifer stared into this unknown, he felt his mental stature shrivel to microscopic size. How could he, or any combination of men, offer leadership into such a future? If the project could survive against the return of Huth's people, what would keep it from disintegrating and destroying itself? How could a psi focus be channeled and used constructively? How could a professor of parapsychology, a professor who knew less about his subject than the youngest child on this planet, assail such peaks? And the children! A freckled boy whimpering in his arms. A boy with a potential power that was as yet beyond the imagination. Lucifer thought of a tiny child behind the wheel of a great diesel truck, speeding through the crowded streets of a city. Or a child toying with the fuse of a hydrogen bomb. Raise that capacity for destruction to the nth power, and then... God! Tonight, for the first time, the children had glimpsed how great their power could be. Tomorrow they would begin to play new games. Quickly they would realize that they were stronger than their parents and other adult authorities. How could such children be controlled, educated, guided to maturity? If there were problem adolescents on Earth, what problems lay ahead with adolescents who could hotrod among the stars? "But there are more than problems," Nina said, in a hushed voice. "A frontier means so much more!" His thoughts, so recently liberated from their cubicle, drew back with conditioned reluctance, then leaped toward those towering peaks. A free thought could surmount any pinnacle, and look beyond the problems to the grandeur of the infinite. The view was of a magnitude and beauty beyond his capacity to absorb. But small, incredibly wonderful details focused before him. Now he saw knowledge and knowing from all the universe pour into this steaming jungle planet through communication channels opened by a psi focus that could leap time and space. He saw knowledge and love and understanding transmitted outward again to fall like rain wherever there was parched earth. His mind drew back from the summit. It was enough to see, for an evanescent moment of wonder, just a fragment of what lay beyond the wild mountains. It was madness to look too long. The future receded; the present returned. "I was there with you," Nina said, breathlessly. He buried his face in the softness of her hair and the warm curve of her throat and shoulder. He told her about himself, and their child. She was silent and still for a long time. "I must have known," she said. "I must have known all the time, without admitting it to myself." "Fm sorry, Nina." Her strong arm tightened around him. Her answer was steady: "We must have hope, because there is so much to learn. But if our child cannot see..." Her voice shook a little, then went on firmly, "... If our child cannot see, we must find a Braille for the psiblind! And we will walk together... as long as we can... on our frontier... of infinity."    Illustrated by Ed Emsh sales When Consumption means prosperity, when the Pulitzer Prize is awarded to advertising copy, when the Salesman is the most respected citizen in the land... What chance has a non-consumer? resistance concert, Perry Mansfield whistled a pleasant melody from an old Stravinsky classic. But then, troubled by his conscience and that of his psychiatrist, he stopped to study the program again. What was that modem symphony? Oh yes, "The Flivver". The music was supposed to have its roots in antiquity when someone started converting the metal wealth of the earth on an assembly line. Those screeching noises were drill presses and lathes and automatic hammers. The syrupy melody was the saintly salesman who disbursed the wealth of gadget and machine like melted butter across the bread of the land. Perry tried to like it. But he didn't. And that disturbed him. It meant his psychotherapy wasn't working. Dr. Stone would mn him through the mechanical analyzer again and scold over the results. His simple act of walking home instead of riding an anti-gravity putterseat labeled him as a misfit. But it seemed silly to rent a flying stool just to travel two blocks. The fact was, he liked to walk. Perry sighed, discouraged, as he waited for the fluorescent scanner to identify his insides and open his front door. It opened. The lights came on. Recorded music, somewhat tuned to his mood, poured from concealed amplifiers. And then he noticed the note clipped to the door. His hand trembled as he took it down. The beautiful pastel gray of the enclosing envelope was an anachronism itself, and therefore marked unmistakably its almost priestly origin. The platinum engraved card inside said simply : A Master Salesman has chosen you for his next calL Perry placed the note carefully on a plastic table. He inhaled deeply and held it for a moment to steady his nerves. A Master salesman. No one of that stature had ever called upon him before. It was an honor like -- like a mayor or a bishop. It meant he had attained top level on the universal measuring stick -- an Anumber-#plus-plus credit rating. The prospect should have saturated him with pleasure. But, like the sharp new music, it didn't. This card also meant he was expected to buy something. Something big and expensive. And he didn't want or need something big and expensive. He wished they'd leave him alone. Perry clapped his hand to his mouth as though someone might have heard the thought. What was wrong with him anyway? He wasn't a recluse. He wanted to indulge and enjoy the polished luxury of his world. He wanted to be conventional. He was young and handsome and tall and dark. He had a good job. He had a pleasant and comfortable legal arrangement with a girl in the next block. But truly, what he had was all he wanted. He glanced at the card on the table. He could always say no. It wouldn't be easy, but he could say no. Perry thumbed through the Pulitzer prize winning work for # which had been delivered yesterday as part of his book club subscription. He had seen it already, of course, in a dozen magazines and a hundred copies of his facsimile newspaper. It was the advertising copy for Cor-T-Zan foundation garments. But he didn't need a corset and the spartan simplicity of the fragile, lovely words bored him. He switched on television. A phrenetic band was hammering out the new top jingle on the Hit Parade: Tootsie gum, tootsie gum Ooh yum-yum, its touched with rum; Love that girl with eyes so hot Perry switched off the set. He was alone. He could be honest with himself. The whole damned business irritated him. If he was out of step with the times, to hell with the times. Mr. Master Salesman didn't even say when he would call. You were expected to sit on the edge of your chair, waiting for the great man to appear. Finally Perry decided what he'd do. He'd simply not open the door when the MS came knocking. Upon that decision, he slept well. Sometime later he dreamed of frying bacon over an open fire in the woods, although he hadn't been out to the park in three years. When he opened his eyes, the sun was up. He still smelled bacon frying. Perry crawled out of bed, fumbled into his robe and followed his nose to the kitchen-bar. There, in his favorite chair, sat a handsomely-dressed, distinguished man with florid complexion, iron gray hair and a fashionable paunch. Strips of bacon were frying on the bright, spotless steel of the cooking shield. "How did you get in here?" Perry asked crossly. "Serve-All does all," his visitor said cryptically and smiled the smile that's known around the world. Perry would have no opportunity to shut out the Master Salesman. He was in. "You are Mr. Mansfield?" "Yes sir," Perry said, uncertain of decorum. "My name is Marlboro," the MS said in melodius tones. "Master is the proper term used in addressing us. Please sit down." "Yes, Master," Perry said. He felt like a fool and sat down. "Breakfast will be served in a few moments," Marlboro said. "I hope you don't mind, I examined your excellent library before you came in." He pulled a volume off the shelf. "This is a beautiful old first edition. Wherever did you find it?" It was Perry's copy of "Basic Sales Techniques" with Burton footnotes on vacuum cleaner sales charts for the last half of the #th century. "I've read it, of course," Marlboro continued, "but I've never owned a copy." He caressed the dogeared cardboard cover. "Isn't it fantastic? In that barbaric century the customers sometimes refused to buy from our predecessors in the Guild. It seems impossible that anyone could have been so crude as to turn away one of those sturdy pioneers at the door." Perry shifted uncomfortably. He had been prepared to turn away one of the Great Men at his door. "Ah!" Marlboro exclaimed. "Your bacon is ready, young man." At a flick of the salesman's finger, the golden strips of meat lifted into the air and floated to an absorbent mat on the table. Perry stared. Not a bubble of fat had fallen to the floor in passage. "How did you do that?" "Serve-All does all," the MS said coyly. "Mine doesn't," Perry said. "Of course not!" Marlboro moved deftly into the opening. "You need a new one." So he had tumbled for the first trap. Perry blushed and ate a piece of bacon. The Master hefted an object to the table top. It was a hemisphere about # inches in diameter, smooth and featureless except for a handle on the curved top. It was painted psychological green. "This is the new Serve-All," Marlboro said glibly. "Notice its smooth unobtrusive shape. No working parts exposed, but inside is a mass of circuits and servos around a baby reactor ready to do everything for you." "The bacon," Perry persisted. "How?" He was aware that the first step in successful selling is to arouse curiosity. But he was confident he could refuse to buy, though it be contrary to convention and good taste. "Fingers of energy," the MS said. "Invisible, sensitive fingers of energy reach out of here -- " He tapped the Serve-All dome. " -- and they'll do anything that needs doing, at your mental command. Right now this one's tuned to me, but a minor adjustment will fit it to your personal needs. Here, let me show you something else." Perry felt a gentle, firm pressure on his left cheekbone. It moved down his cheeks, across his upper lip and up the other side. Then under his chin. Marlboro whipped out a pocket mirror. Perry had just been shaved. "See?" the Master beamed. "Wonderful isn't it?" Perry nodded. That was calculated to put him in a yes mood. While they talked the Serve-All cleared the breakfast clutter and cleaned the cooking shield without visible remains or waste. Marlboro pulled a contract pad out of his pocket. "I presume I can put you down for one of these." "I don't need it," Perry said. "My old one is good enough." "Ridiculous!" Marlboro said indignantly and then chuckled goodhumoredly. "Oh, I see what you're doing. You're trying some of the old tricks from the #th century. Well, I like a game of wits, too. Look what else this model will do." While Perry watched, the ServeAll repaired a broken knob on a plastic chest, cleaned the rug and etched a mural of a voluptuous nude on one blank wall. "If you'll excuse me," Perry murmured, "it's time for me to go to work." "Of course, of course," the Master laughed jovially. In rapid succession a comb dressed Perry's hair, his robe and pajamas were whisked off and his street clothes came floating out of the closet on more invisible fingers of energy. Before he knew it, he was ready for work. "I really must be going, too," Marlboro said, "if you'll just sign here." "How much is it?" The Master Salesman sighed. "You're really very diflficult. It's #, plus tax." "I can't afford it." "Now, Mr. Mansfield. A joke's a joke. If your credit rating wasn't the finest, I wouldn't be here. I know, and you know, your income is mortgaged for only # more years and your life expectancy is at least #." Perry moved uneasily toward the bathroom. An invisible finger of energy opened the door for him. "If you don't mind," he said angrily, "this is something I'm quite capable of doing for myself." He slammed the door. But the Serve-All flushed the toilet for him. When he emerged, Marlboro's patience also was gone. "Sign," he said firmly. "I don't want it." "Young man," the Master said thinly. "You don't realize what dangerous ground you're on. If you do not cease this rudeness at once, I'll report you to the council." "Report and be damned! I don't need your gadget and I'm not going to buy it. Now get out!" Marlboro was blue with rage. He backed uncertainly toward the door and stopped. "This borders on sacrilege," he whispered. "You'll hear from me again. Soon." Perry slammed that door, too, and walked jauntily to work. H e heard from the Master Salesman again -- exactly two hours later. The message tube delivered a summons ordering him into City Court. That afternoon. Perry went. He had never been in court before. He was frightened and regretful that he had been so abrupt with Marlboro. But he resented the invasion of his privacy and to bolster his courage, he built that anger into a fair rage by the time he reached the courtroom. Marlboro was there. A judge was there. And on each of two tables squatted a metal box with voice tubes. A bailiff guided him to his table and placed the voice tube in his hand. "You're late Mr. Mansfield," the judge snapped. "Justice must be swift and you're impeding it." He lifted a printed card and scanned it near-sightedly for a moment. "You're here charged with violating the public interest by failing to purchase an item which you are able to consume and which you can afford to buy." "There's no law against -- " Perry began indignantly. "Don't tell me your troubles, young man," the judge interrupted. "That's what your lawyer's for." His gesture indicated the metal box. Perry held the voice tube dumbly. The bailiff leaned over his shoulder. "You tell your side of the story in there," he whispered. Marlboro was muttering rapidly and at great length into his "lawyer," Perry did likewise, relating all he could remember of the morning fiasco. When he finished, the machine whirred, whistled and harrumphed twice before spewing out several yards of perforated tape. The plaintiff's counsel did the same, except the tape was longer. "Now Mr. Bailiff," the judge said, "you may bring in the jury." Perry was no longer surprised when the jury was rolled in. It was a large gray analog computor mounted on wheels. The judge stepped down from the bench and fed in the two conflicting tapes. The jury digested the information noisily. "It's an old model," the judge apologized, but just then a white card popped out on a small metal tray. The bailiff delivered it to the judge. He studied the card. Perry's heart thiunped painfully during the calculated period of suspense. "As you attempted to inform the court earlier, Mr. Mansfield," the judge said somberly, "there is no law in the land which forces you to buy any item from our distinguished colleagues of distribution." Perry's heart brightened and he slid back from the edge of the chair. "However," the judge peered down, "it has been held by many courts that when the public interest is to be served by the individual purchase of a piece of merchandise which that individual can consume and which that individual is able to buy without financial hardship, then that individual must sacrifice his emotional reluctance to the good of society." The jurist paused thoughtfully. "I think, Mr. Mansfield, that you should relearn the basic tenets of our society and economy. First, Consumption is Prosperity and that derives from the ancient law of Supply and Demand. S  D means, in simple terms, that when there is a supply of something, a demand must be created to consume it. That is why we have Master Salesmen. That is why they are the staunchest and most highly-respected citizens in our land. He bowed to Marlboro who assumed a benevolent smile. "This court decrees," the judge said sternly, "that you are to purchase an item known as the # Serve-All from Master Salesman Marlboro and customary steps will be taken to attach your future salary to satisfy the stipulated payment schedule. Court dismissed." Perry was too stunned to move. His petty rebellion had collapsed into a pot of embarrassment. He was vaguely aware of Marlboro shaking his hand with a moist, jovial palm. "No hard feelings, young man," the MS said. "It was really quite interesting. I haven't had a case like this in five years." The condescension stirred Perry's anger again. "I demand an appeal!" The judge was leaving the bench, but he turned back. "Appeal bond is #." "No appeal," Perry S#iid glumly. He walked home. The # Serve-All was there waiting for him, in the middle of his living room floor. Marlboro had tied a gay red ribbon around it to cheer him. He wasn't cheered. The thing must have been delivered even while he was in court. There had never been a doubt that he would lose the case. Rage began to crawl its acid path through his stomach again. The Serve-All was tuned to him now. It removed his hat and coat and put them in the closet. It loosened his tie, patted a sofa cushion to his shape and brought him a drink. Perry might just possibly have adjusted to the situation, but the Serve-All was over anxious. He liked to sip a drink. But when he lifted the glass to his lips, an invisible finger of energy pushed helpfully on the bottom. Perry strangled. When he recovered, his rage had crystallized in a definite course of action. He looked at the Serve-All and he looked at his hands. Not enough. He needed something much more. His memory of history recalled such items as an axe and a sledge hammer, but such no longer existed. But the plastic table had legs of substantial heft. A low growl rose in his throat as he grabbed the table and ripped it to pieces. The dismayed Serve-All scuttled across the room to repair the damage. Perry fended it off with his new club and then smashed downward, again and again, delighting in the screech of crushed metal and the tinkling death of transistors, vacuum tubes and servos. At the center was the tiny reactor box, but that was of solid lead and steel, that, fortunately, was virtually impervious for radiation safety. But ne didn't care. It was also inert and needn't be destroyed. So Perry was free; as free as an aging husband who has just dispatched his jaded wife. He sang a little and danced around the shattered scraps of plastic and wire and metal. Then he heard the plaintive bleating beep of sound issuing from the central core of the Serve-All. He bent over it and read engraved lettering on the steel : "Central Registry No. C#-D#." Good God! Any idiot would know that every piece of equipment was centrally registered and carried a built-in signal to summon repair machinery. And destruction of mortgaged property was a criminal offense. So what now? Escape? Escape! He must be out of the house when the repair machine arrived. He must run and keep running, from the law and the Master Salesman and Serve-All, Inc. How much time did he have? Not more than a few minutes for the smooth central machinery to reach across the city to him; machinery which even now was on its way to rescue a damaged brother. Perry snatched his coat from the closet and ran to the door. Food. If he would hide from the methodical meat grinder of society, he must have food to live. He raced to the kitchen bar. There was food there, but he didn't know how to get at it. He had never before needed to do more than dial up portions for a meal, but he must have food in containers, food that would not spoil while he conserved his life on its dwindling supply. He ripped open a locked panel on the wall. There was food. But the large containers were locked in place. He clawed at the metal, but only tore his flesh and dripped blood on the immaculate counter top. The club he had used on the ServeAll I He recovered the plastic bludgeon and went to work. Five minutes later he had dislodged two of the large tins. One said beans; the other said meat. Beans dripped a trail of juice across the floor as he ran to the door. He threw it open. A repair robot scuttled in and knocked him sprawling on the living room floor. Perry stared wildly at the mechanical beast. It hummed anxiously, retrieving bits of wreckage like a mother bird repairing a broken egg Mansfield belly-crawled stealthily back toward the door. He might make it yet. The robot probably wasn't geared for cop duty. But the door was blocked. Perry looked up past the knees and the belted paunch to the face. It was Master Marlboro. Perry rose wearily to his feet and dropped the tins of food to the floor. "All right," he said, "I give up." "Really, Mr. Mansfield," Marlboro's lips curled with delicate disgust. "Isn't this a childish way to treat a beautiful machine?" "What will you do with me?" The MS didn't answer. He pulled a contract pad out of his pocket and started writing. "You mean you're going to sell me another one?" Marlboro shoved the pad in his hand. "I'm quite sure you'll sign this one," he said firmly. Perry read the sales contract: For standard consideration y this entitles one Perry Mansfield to all required services and exclusive use of private quarters in Airy Hills Sanatarium, Perry signed.    YouHl laugh and squirm as you read this biting new satire about the integrated Man of tomorrow! By Bryce Walton Anderson, Tom Godwin, Robert F. Young, Fox Holden and others. Ask your news dealer to reserve you a copy now! The officials had been napping the day Donnie passed inspection... How else could you explain such an error in his emotional conditioning? D onnie clenched his small fists and tried not to cry, but two elliptical tears ran slowly down his cheeks. The sight of them made Mr. Ames even madder. "Look at him' he stormed, turning to Martha. "Just look at him. Every damn time I try to reason with him, he starts to snivel like an animal, instead of acting like a normal human being." Mr. Ames flicked his cigar ashes toward a vacuum cup on the wall and looked down at the boy. "Now stop that stupid crying and tell me what this is all about." Donnie sniffled a couple of times and wiped his nose on the back of one of his blue uniform sleeves. "Well," Mr. Ames said, coldly. The boy took a deep breath and raised his head. "I want you to spend some time with me' he said. 'T want you to -- " he searched the elusive shadows of memory until he found the word he wanted -- "I want you to play with me. That's it. I want you to play with me once in a while." Mr. Ames blinked his eyes and stepped back. "Play," he repeated. "What do you mean play?' Donnie hesitated. "You know," he said, finally, "take me on long walks and sit down and play games and tell me stories once in a while." "But you've got all the stories you need," Mr. Ames said, waving his hand at the banks of audiotapes stacked neatly on the wall shelves. "And your audio-prompter can tell them better than I can." "Yes," Donnie said, 'i)ut that's a machine and I want -- " "What's wrong with a machine," Mr. Ames said, his face getting red. "Some of our best things come from machines. Didn't they teach you that at the Incubator?" "Yes," the boy said, "but isn't there anything besides machines? I can't play with machines, I want to play with you!" He began to sob again. Mr. Ames dashed his cigar to the floor. "I give up," he said. "By the Red Balls of Jupiter, I give up!" "Now, Henry," his wife said. "Remember, the boy's only seven." "Don't 'Henry' me," Mr. Ames said, "And besides, what does being seven have to do with it. When I was his age, I was an honor student in physics. He can't even pass algebra." Donnie stared at the toes of his boots. "I've given this kid everything," Mr. Ames went on. "He's going to the best pre-nuclear school in the whole hemisphere. He's got his own rocket kit. Why, he's even been on a study cruise to the moon! How many kids his age have been to the moon already? I bet no other kid in our project has been there. And what do I get as a reward." Mr. Ames didn't wait for an answer. "Trouble. That's what I get, trouble. Why in Galaxy he can't leave me alone like a normal child is more than I can understand." He stopped for breath and lit a fresh cigar. "Maybe the boy's sick," Martha said timidly. Mr. Ames ignored her. "I've tried to be a good father to him," he said, his voice self-righteous. "I'm giving him a chance to make something out of himself. All I ask is that he be of service to the world, and make me proud of him some day. But what does he do? Does he concentrate on his career, like the rest of the kids? Hell, no, he wants to hang around me, always underfoot, always asking stupid questions. Play!" Mr. Ames snorted. "It's not just play." "Heh, what's that?" Mr. Ames jumped. "I said it's not just play," Donnie repeated, bravely brushing away his tears. "You don't give me any -- he searched again for the right word -- "any companionship. A boy needs companionship. Don't you understand?" "No, I don't," Mr. Ames said. "And Tm sure they didn't teach you that in the Incubator either. Don't you realize you should be fully coordinated by now. Instead, you want me to take time from my work -- Why it's preposterous. It's, it's -- unscientific !" "But, all I want -- " Mr. Ames held up his hand. "Enough of this," he said. "I refuse to discuss it anymore. Now go to your room and get ready for your study period." The boy burst out crying again and ran out of the room. Mr. Ames shook his head. "Definite neurotic tendencies," he muttered to himself. "What dear?" his wife said. "Nothing, Martha," he answered. "Just talking to myself." He sat down heavily on the couch and sighed. What was wrong with Donnie, anyway? Where did he get those archaic ideas from? Surely he had been taught that the whole purpose of the incubator system was to speed up learning and growth processes so children wouldn't have to waste precious years growing up, like they did in tixe old days. Why their new technological age simply had no time to fool around with infantile desires. There were too many things to do, too many knotty scientific problems to solve. Emotions, Mr. Ames mumbled to himself, you never could trust your damn emotions. That night, after Donnie was in bed, Mr. Ames went to his study and pulled out the boy's file. It explained what he was fitted for, what abilities he had inherited, and what Illustrated by Paul Orban his primary training included. Mr. Ames noted sadly that the boy's Scientific Quotient was #, well above normal, and that he would stand six feet tall and weigh close to # pounds when fully developed. Mr. Ames, who was incubatorbom himself, was completely sold on the ingenious system the Federation of World Councils had devised. No more hit-and-miss mass reproduction, where morons were gradually out-breeding intelligent beings, but instead, selective artificial insemination through which only the best strains were permitted to reproduce. Each generation, the human race got healthier and smarter. Insanity and inherited diseases were a thing of the past and nature's primitive law -- only the fittest shall survive -- was now a glittering reality. Why the Federated Incubators even took over the burden of educating the children for the first five years. Parents no longer had to be bothered caring for helpless, bawling brats. By the time Incubates were placed on the available list, they were completely self-sufficient and emotionally conditioned to fit into any family group. Parents simply picked what they wanted. Mr. Ames, of course, had selected a future nuclear-chemist It was a beautiful system, Mr. Ames told himself, and even more important, it worked. But somehow, some way, there was something radically wrong with their child. "Definite neurotic symptoms," Mr. Ames murmured, half aloud. By Jupiter, there was only one thing to do. He shut the folder firmly and spun around to the trans-audio. A green light appeared on the panel almost immediately. "Your connection, please?" the automon said. "Give me the local Incubator." There was a pause, then a click. "Federated Health and Service, coordinator speaking. May I help you?" "Yes. This is Mr. Henry Ames, over at the Amarillo Group Project. I have a complaint to make." "Yes?" The coordinator, a woman, was carefully polite. "It's about the child you sent us." "Specimen please?" "What? Oh, it's a boy. Class Triple A, breed, nuclear chemistry. We got him about # months ago and -- " "What is your number please?" "It's... just a minute." Mr. Ames consulted the folder. "My number is #-#-oh-#. And we've got a three-year guarantee," he added pointedly. "Yes, sir. Just a minute sir." There was a whirring sound at the other end of the circuit. After a short wait, the coordinator's voice came through again. "Well, sir," she said. "You have the select model in our scientific line of seven-year-olds. According to our records, he checked out perfectly on all phases of learning and aptitude. Have you tried memory teaching?" "Yes, I've tried memory teaching. He learns fine." Mr. Ames stopped. "Look, you don't seem to understand. He's okay as far as performance goes. He does everything we tell him and all that, but he's still a real pain in the -- I mean, he's developing very annoying characteristics." "Please go on, Mr. Ames." The coordinator's voice was warm and sympathetic. "How does he annoy you?" "Well, for one thing, he's getting pronounced possessive tendencies. He almost seems to resent being left alone. Why, just this evening he told me he wants us to play with him!" "Did you say play with him?" "That's right," Mr. Ames said, triumphantly. "And he says he needs companionship, or something like that." "Companionship," the coordinator repeated. "Oh, dear. This is more serious than I thought. I'm afraid you definitely have a reject, Mr. Ames. If he shows these tendencies at this early age, then the situation will be intolerable later on. "It's intolerable right now," Henry insisted. "Anyway, I thought you people were supposed to clear up all this emotional unbalance in the primary psych indoctrination." "We usually do," the coordinator agreed, "but every once in a while, one slips through inspection with faulty communal-perception. The one you've got is obviously a throwback." The coordinator coughed apologetically. "It's really not the boy's fault, of course, but I'm afraid we'll have to reclaim him." "The sooner the better," Mr. Ames said. "This mess is upsetting my work at the lab. When can I get a replacement?" "We'll send a new model over when we pick up the reject. Will tomorrow morning be convenient?" "Sure. Fine. Just make sure this one is normal. You better check our physio records too. I hear the people down the circle got one that didn't look like them at all." "Don't worry," the coordinator assured him. "You'll get a boy you can be proud of this time. Will there be anything more now?" "No, no, I guess not." An uneasy feeling slipped into Mr. Ames's consciousness. "I just wondered," he said, suddenly. "What will happen to Don -- I mean, the reject you sent us. Will he be -- uh-niestroyed?" The coordinator laughed. "Heavens, no, Mr, Ames," she said, lightly. "He'll be sent to the Biological Reservation and allowed to live out his life span with other rejects. He'll be much happier there. We're not savages, you know." "That's right," Mr. Ames said, his tone matching her brightness. "We're not savages. Well, we'll be expecting the new one tomorrow, and thanks for all your trouble." "No trouble at all," the coordinator said, smoothly. "Feel free to call on us any time."    'Tain't the things we don't know what makes us so ignorant, The Pied Piper who had promised them Paradise and led them across half the universe had changed his tune. But this time it was the Piper who had to pay... R uth was standing at the vast window of the spacejX)rt, her body taut and eager the luggage piled high around her. When Harvey Flanders came out of the ship carrying the last two suitcases, she darted to him. "Harvey, it's a dream -- it's heavenly!" she cried, catching hold of his arm. "Did you imagine -- did you possibly ever imagine it would be like this?" Harvey's eyes followed the sweep of his wife's hand, out at the dazzling expanse of fields and orchards, green and gold under this magnificent sun. The fantastic vegetation stretched in lush undulations to a distant purple horizon, the sweep broken only by the brown streaks of roads, the winding ribbons of sapphire-tinted water, and, here and there, the pastel pink and blue roofs of the settlers' houses. Illustrated by Paul Orban Exultation filled his chest. He fought it down, deliberately, grimly. 'There were places on Earth that were like this before the blight came. California... Florida... looked like this' "Like this?" Ruth exclaimed. "Harvey! Look at those giant fruit trees. Look at them." Harvey caught her shoulder in a tight grip. "Honey, we just can't let ourselves go overboard till we're sure everything's okay," he said quietly. "We've had our hopes built up and slapped down so many times." He looked down into her brown eyes. "Kitten, do you remember the time old man Reeber came climbing over the fence, yelling that the blight was going, it was moving off his cornfield, and we believed, we actually believed some miracle had happened, and we went chasing after him and found it was just a sunbeam breaking through a cloud bank. What a mirage that was!" "Harvey," Ruth said softly, "do you really think that this" -- her hand traced the horizon -- "is a mirage?" "I want to get a closer look, honey -- I want to feel it and taste it before I believe it," he said. But when he glanced again at the landscape, his breath quickened and a tingle rode over his skin. "No, honey," he said quickly, T don't think it's a mirage. I think it's what we've been dreaming about a long, long time." Ruth gave a relieved cry and flung her arms around him. He held her, patting her gently. "Now take it easy," he said. She looked up abruptly, her eyes wet. "The first thing, you've got to get some color back," she said fiercely. "You've gotten so awfully pale!" "And you're lovelier than ever," he said, running a hand along her cheek. "Now let's get moving before they put us back on the ship and send us home for being slowpokes." She pounced down on a big, leather-thonged trunk. He pushed her aside. "Half pint, you te the little ones." Together they loaded their baggage on the red four-wheeled cart. Most of the other immigrants had already loaded their luggage and now stood beside the carts, each couple a little island of chatter and excitement. Next to Harvey and Ruth were Dr. Norbert Lurie and his wife Edna, both spectacled, scholarly, and too thin; both earnest, conscientious, and eager to help; rather boring company on a ten-month space voyage, but very comforting to have as neighbors in a strange land. After them came the Schweitzer twins, husky, blond, pink-faced youths, each with his little china-doll wife. Beyond them stood big, redheaded Jim Brace and his slim brunette wife, Nancy. Brace was heaving the last of his trunks onto his cart, his biceps bulging awesomely. "Real pioneer stock, this Red Brace," Harvey said. "Shame there are no Indians around -- he'd have been a good man to have around in a scrap." Ruth's eyes crinkled in puzzled thought. "Harvey, weren't there any people here at all?" "Nope. Not a soul. Not till the good gray colonel stepped out of his ship onto one of these golden hills, about fifteen years ago." "It seems incredible," Ruth whispered. "Hey, fellows," came the booming voice of big Red Brace, but it was promptly lost in the roar of a loudspeaker: "Attention! Everyone will please assemble in the main reception room. Follow the red arrows down the ramp to the green doors. Please fill up all the front seats. Colonel Baker will address you. Leave your baggage where it is. Everybody now -- follow the red arrows." Excited, high-hearted talk frothed up from the immigrants as they moved down the ramp. After being confined for ten months in the narrow, dreadfully soundproofed rooms and corridors of the spaceship, every sound, every bit of motion was an intense delight. Green doors opened on a long, low-ceilinged room with paneled wooden walls painted in mottled green and gold. Large windows threw shafts of light across the rows of rough-hewn benches. The babble of voices swelled around them, grew louder and more excited as the minutes passed. Then abruptly the voices in the front of the auditorium quieted, and silence flooded backward. Heads began to turn to the right side of the stage where something seemed to be happening in the wing -- and then, at last. Colonel Martin E. Baker came into sight and walked slowly to the center of the stage. He stood there smiling, a middlesized man in a light brown suit, with a friendly bulge in the abdomen, and small, neat feet. His cheeks were round and sunburned; though thinning at the temples and the back of his skull. He held a lemon-colored cane in front of him and leaned on it slighdy. "Well," he said, a concealed microphone carrying his voice through the auditorium, "what do you think?" The immigrants seated before him answered with delighted laughter which merged into a wave of handclapping. When the noise died down. Colonel Baker said, in a low voice, "That's all I want to hear." He nodded, looking thoughtful. "This is the moment I always wait for -- the moment when the settlers get off the ship and verify for themselves all the things I told them. You see, my friends, when I go on my lecture tours around the Earth, the scepticism I run into makes me feel like a very lonely man. I tell my story -- about a place where things grow five to seven times as big as anything Earth ever saw in her best days, a place where one gets three or four harvests in what would be a single growing season on Earth -- I tell the story and find that quite a lot of people don't believe it. But fortunately, here and there I meet people who can respond to a vision -- people brave enough to rip up their stakes and take a journey across the oceans of space. And what I wait for is to see their faces and hear their voices when they reach these shores and learn that everything is true -- everything -- just as I told it." There was another burst of handclapping. Red Brace put two fingers to his lips and produced a deafening whistle, prolonging it until his wife yanked his hand away from his mouth. "You can imagine," Colonel Baker went on in his mellow, vibrant voice -- "you can imagine, my friends, what my feelings were when I stepped out of the spaceship Explorer and set foot on this incredible planet for the first time." His eyes fixed themselves on a distant point above the heads of his audience. "Here, I said to myself -- here is Paradise. The blight on Earth was already becoming acute -- and here suddenly I was in a land richer than anything man has ever seen since he left the Garden of Eden. I still remember the thrill I felt when I squeezed this magic loam between my fingers. I could scarcely wait out the return trip to Earth so I could bring back here the seeds and cuttings of our edible plants. What happened after that is history. Peaches, pears, apples, all producing abundantly in their first season. Oranges the size of melons. Vegetables big enough for giants... Of course, it wasn't economically feasible to send this produce to Earth -- although one of these days I think it will be. As the blight gets worse people will get so sick of subsisting on dehyto pay the enormous transportation costs to get our fruits and vegetables. But meanwhile, by the greatest good fortune, an economic base for our agriculture did develop with the discovery of radioactive minerals on our neighboring planet. It's a perfect arrangement: we feed the miners, and they pay us with the earnings from their mines. Two planets, floating side by side in space, each supplying what the other needs -- it seems too perfect to be a mere coincidence. You feel there must be some providence, some mysterious intellect that planned it this way." He paused. A smile softened his face. "I guess I've talked long enough. I'm delighted to see you all here, safe and happy. You are the twenty-third group to arrive since we opened this planet. Soon the ship will leave for the long voyage to Earth to pick up the twenty-fourth contingent, most of whom are already signed up. My associate, Mr. Carsing, will take over now and fill you in on some of the things you'll want to know. Meanwhile, I want to say: Welcome to Paradise. If you ever have any problems of any kind, let me hear from you. Good luck!" Applause rolled after him as he walked slowly off stage. Almost immediately, a tall, thin man in a gray suit walked to the center of the stage. He carried a sheaf of papers. His movements were quick and nervous. His scalp was naked except for ragged patches of hair above his ears. His skin shone sallowly in the light from the windows. "I will now read the assignment of subdivisions," he said. "Please listen carefully and make a note of your location." His voice had a harsh edge of shrillness. Ruth looked at Harvey and wrinkled her nose. "I don't like him as much as Colonel Baker," she said. Carsing read off the names, designating a number and letter for each. Harvey and Ruth Flanders were assigned to area #D. The numbers for the Luries and the Schweitzers followed closely, but the Braces weren't reached until the #'s. "Hey," growled Red Brace, "don't take me away from my buddies." "All marketing of crops will be handled by our central office," Carsing said. "All your shipments will be listed in a credit account, against which all your charges will be debited. For bookkeeping convenience, settlement will be made once a year." His papers moved restlessly in his hands. "The guides are waiting to take you to your homesteads. You will now return to your luggage and finish loading it on the carts. After that, you are to go to the main door, where you will receive your oxygen packs, and then you are to assemble outside. Are there any questions?" "Yeh!" called out Red Brace, jumping to his feet. "I don't like the location you gave me. How do I get it changed?" Carsing scowled. "How do you know you don't like it before you have even seen it?" "I know. It's not near my friends." "Write an application for a change. If there are no further questions -- "Question!" Harvey was on his feet. "What's this you said about oxygen packs?" "I said they'd be issued at the main door. Anything else?" "Why -- why do we need oxygen packs?" "To breathe," Carsing said sourly. "I should think that would be obvious." "You mean..." Harvey's heart pounded. "You mean there's no oxygen out there?" "The oxygen content of our atmosphere is seven percent," Carsing said, his voice falling to a weary monotone. "Seven percent is equivalent to the oxygen content you find when you travel # feet above Earth. You know you can't exist at # feet unless you have an artificial supply of oxygen. Very well. The same condition applies here -- on the ground. You will wear your oxygen packs at all times. The only exception is this building. We have oxygen pumped into it." "What's this all about?" shouted Red Brace. "Are you kidding us or something?" Carsing's mouth formed a crumpled smile. "If you think I'm joking you can take a walk outside and see." He turned his eyes away from Brace. "The packs are small and light. The outlet cup covers only the nose. There is no interference with speech. You can thank Colonel Baker for sponsoring the research that produced these lightweight packs." "Thank him for what?" said Harvey hoarsely. "Why didn't he tell us before he signed us up?" A clamor of supporting voices rose around him. Other immigrants leaped to their feet, trying to make themselves heard. Red Brace was bellowing something unintelligible. His wife added her indignant contralto. Carsing shouted, "Quiet!" and then gave up and stood there, scowling. straight-backed chair, sat Colonel Martin E. Baker, his eyes half closed, his hands folded against his belly, as he listened to the angry tumult. This always happened. It was an unpleasantness he could count on with the arrival of every new group of homesteaders. In an instant everybody had forgotten that he had rescued them from a miserable existence on a blighted Earth. There was no thought of gratitude to him for finding this fabulous place and developing it and bringing them here. No -- the only thing in their grubby minds was the thought of the oxygen pack they would have to wear, to save themselves from quick death. Of course, they gave no thought to the money and effort he had expended to develop this pack, this neat little lightweight marvel. By the time he had this perfected and had worked out all the other details involved in colonizing this place, he had spent a fortune, he was practically broke. Sometimes he found it hard to maintain a feeling of calm and good will. If he wanted to let himself go, it would be so easy to become a bitter, misanthropic old man. But there would be no sense in that. These people were young and thoughtless, the victims of their own impulsiveness, and what the situation called for was patience, understanding, and forgiveness. Martin Baker let out a long sigh and heaved his round body out of his chair. He walked slowly toward the confused jumble of voices. He knew, even without distinguishing the sounds, that they were demanding that he appear. Baker ran a hand over his clothes to make sure they were in order, put on a broad and gentle smile, and stepped out on the stage. He waited until the clamor quieted, and then he said, "Fm here to answer any questions." Half a dozen of the homesteaders tried to talk at once. Baker smiled understandingly and held up his hand. "One at a time, please -- every one will have his chance." "What kind of a deal is this?" a voice bellowed from the rear. Baker recognized the big red-headed man, Brace. A bold, adventuresome man, handsome and powerfully built, but, alas, so very stupid. He would make a lot of noise. Baker knew, but actually he wouldn't be any real trouble. "And what, may I ask, is the cause of your dissatisfaction?" Baker inquired. "How come we travel all the way out here and find out we've got to wear oxygen masks?" Baker shook his head, smiling gently. "Not really masks, my friend. They cover only the end of your nose. They're marvelously comfortable, as you'll soon see. In a few days you won't even be aware you're wearing them." "Like heU," Brace growled. "# know I'm wearing it." Baker shrugged affably, and then gestured invitingly to the long, thin, somber looking man who stood with his hand up, not far from Brace. This was Lurie, the biology professor, a nice, harmless Ph.D. "What's wrong with the atmosphere?" Lurie said. "Why is an artificial supply of oxygen necessary?" "The answer is very simple," Baker said. "This is a young planet, as planets go. The conditions here are just about what they were on Ear A eons ago. The carbon dioxide exhaled from the interior of the planet and saturating the atmosphere is gradually being converted by the plant life -- broken down, I should say, releasing free oxygen. At the present time, our oxygen content is about seven percent. Eventually, the oxygen will probably reach the level you find on the surface of the Earth -- about twenty-one percent. But that should take a long time; I'm afraid none of us will be around when that point is reached. Meanwhile, our plants luxuriate in an atmosphere rich in carbon dioxide. Plants, as you know, use carbon dioxide for their most essential life process -- photosynthesis. But I'm sure Professor Lurie can tell you much more about that than I can." Lurie blinked embarrassedly, and looked aside at his wife, and smiled shyly. "Mr. Baker!" another voice broke in. This speaker, Baker recognized, was Harvey Flanders, definitely a dangerous type. He was a brooder; he had a slow, relentless fire in his eyes. Baker had been doubtful about him from the start; he'd had half a mind to reject his application. But as things happened, the passenger list was one couple short and so, at the last moment, he had taken Flanders and his wife. Was he going to have reason to regret what he'd done? "How do you propose to make up for this fraud you've put over on us?" Flanders was saying. "I'm sorry," Baker said. "Did you say fraud?" "Fraud," Harvey repeated bitter"That's a harsh word, my friend. What are you referring to?" "Dammit, those glowing talks you gave us -- " "And isn't everything I told you true? Go out, I beg of you, and point out to me a single instance where I've exaggerated." "But the oxygen -- " "I made no statement about oxygen," Baker said firmly. "I'm sure everyone here will corroborate that. Did I make any false claims about the atmosphere? Did I, now? No, my friend, if you will think back you will find that I said nothing aut the atmosphere." "But that's what I mean," Harvey said, his voice rising in exasperation. "My good friend," Baker said gently, "if you were describing a beautiful woman, would you bother to mention that she had a mole on the sole of her foot?" "But this is something basic." "What seems basic to one person may seem merely incidental to another, Every man to his own opinion -- and I assure you, my friend, you have a perfect right to yours. If you feel you were misled, then I am deeply and humbly sorry. If you don't like it here, if you think you can find something better -- " "You goddamned phony, you know once you've got us here, we're at your mercy!" Baker smiled forgivingly. "Mercy. There, my friend, is a word I much prefer to that other one you used a while ago. Mercy, charity, forbearance... My friends, we are all here together -- let us try to live in true fellowship and to make the most of what has been given us. I can think of nothing more tragic than to start this great adventure on a note of strife and suspicion. I hope rather that we all go forward with hearts full of trust -- trust in the future, and trust in each other." His voice rose -- his eyes again fixed themselves on a point above the heads of his audience. "If we work together, if we keep our eyes on the distant horizon, and ignore the advocates of spite, the petty minds that spin their miserable webs in the dark, I am sure we can all look forward to a bright and glowing future. We stand, my friends, on the threshold of a brave new world. Let us all go forward with hope and faith. Under such banners, I know we cannot fail." Slowly, Martin Baker walked off the stage. Harvey looked around helplessly at the faces of his fellowvoyagers who were staring at the stage in half-dazed fascination. "Look, we're not going to let him get away with this," he pleaded. "This is exactly the way he talked us into signing up." Harvey got some irritated looks in return. "Hell, we're here, ain't we?" somebody growled. "Harvey," Dr. Lurie said, "I'd suggest we avoid conclusions until we've given this a fair trial." A murmured chorus of approval rose around him. At that moment, Carsing reappeared on the stage. "All right, everybody," he said briskly, "go back and finish loading up, and pick up your oxygen packs. Everybody's eager to see their homesteads, so let's not anybody hold us up. Let's go." With a surge of relief, the homesteaders flowed down the aisles to the exits. T he oxygen packs turned out to be, in fact, wonderfully comfortable. A small outlet cup fitted over the nose with no more pressure than a pair of spectacles. Two narrow tubes curved over the shoulders and ended in a small pack weighing about two pounds, most of that being the weight of a replaceable metal capsule. There was no interference with speech. "You see," Ruth laughed tremulously -- "you see, it actually improves your appearance." She grimaced at Harvey. "All right, sourpuss, you can smile, can't you?" The air outside was soft and golden, laced with a cool, gentle wind. The excited voices of the homesteaders rang with startling clarity. They looked with delight at each other, and called out at each other, and laughed, not knowing exactly why. "Don't seem anything wrong with this air," said Red Brace. "Feels like any other air. I wonder if the old bird was kidding us." One of the Schweitzer twins gave a laugh. "There's one way to find out," he said, and yanked the outlet cup off his nose. He inhaled deeply, smiling. "Look, Ma, I'm breathing," he laughed. He took deep, gulping breaths. He did a somersault. He pounded his chest. "It's all a matter of lungs," he said. "If you don't have lungs, well, you just can't manage it, that's all..." He chattered on -- and then, abruptly, his eyes took on a startled look. He began to breathe more rapidly. His breathing became labored. He fumbled for the outlet cup. He raised it to his nose -- it slipped out of his now frantic hands -- Harvey and Dr. Lurie grabbed him as he wavered, and fitted the outlet cup back over his nose. The youth stood there with trembling knees. "Sit down, kid," Harvey said. "Relax -- you'll be all right." The settlers stood in a stricken silence. They had been fully informed of the situation, they knew precisely what would happen, yet seeing it demonstrated this way was an appalling thing. They could see now, graphically, the precarious condition of their existence. There was no more shouting. There was little they had to say to each other now. Carsing came out of the building. He was instantly recognizable, despite the cup over his nose. With his nervous, jerky steps, he walked to a low platform and held up his hand. With him were two men, both gray-haired and darkly tanned. "These are your guides," Carsing announced. "Go get your carts and move out." "Hey!" shouted Red Brace. "What pulls these carts?" "You do," Carsing said coldly. 'Tfou mean there aren't any horses -- or trucks?" Carsing's mouth twisted. "No -- no horses or trucks. Or tractors or washing machines. You'd better make up your minds to that right now. Transporting any large mechanical equipment all the way out here would be impossibly expensive. Outside of the few small devices we absolutely had to have, we've imported nothing. So please don't come complaining to me. From now on, you'll have to learn to improvise with native materials. All right" -- he gestured to the two men who stood drooping behind him, as if leaning on invisible poles -- "get them out and get going." Carsing left the platform and went back into the building. For a moment, there was no motion among the settlers. Then several started maneuvering the heavily loaded carts, the men embarrassedly accepting the assistance of their wives. The two guides waited, still leaning on their phantom supports, talking softly, hardly looking at the settlers. When all the carts were lined up in a straggling column, the two guides ambled to the road that led away from the spaceport. They paused and looked back briefly with worn eyes. Then with a motion that was more a shrug than a gesture, they started up the brown dirt road. Harvey looked at Ruth. Her face was taut. All around him the settlers were silent, except for labored breathing or a hurried warning as the wagon wheels reached a rut or a rock. Reality had flooded over them with abrupt and dismaying force. The sky was still bright, the fields were still gloriously golden but the radiance seemed to have gone out of their paradise. Harvey put an arm around Ruth's slim shoulders. Strangely, as spirits sank around him, his rose. Now his vague forebodings had become clarified; now he knew what the reality was, he knew what he had to cope with. "They get a ship here from Earth every two years," he said to her. "We'll work hard and save our money, and if we find we can't stand it, we'll just pack up and go home." She looked at him miserably. "How awful. After all our hopes..." "Maybe it'll work out," he said lightly. "I hate to think of living in a place run by these guys, but I'm Keep your chin up, kitten." The road became steeper, and the settlers slipped and grunted and struggled behind the carts. Near the crest, in a field to the right of the road, four people were working, apparently cutting and binding grain. As the column of settiers approached, the workers glanced up, said something to each other, and bent to their work again. "Look at that," growled Red Brace. "We come across practically half the universe to reach this place, and all we get is a cockeyed glance out of the corner of their eyes." "Well, you aren't exactly a pretty sight," Harvey said. But it was strange, he thought -- this indifference, this lack of curiosity. Here, for the first time in two years, were newcomers from distant Earth. Didn't they want to hear the news, hear about the blight, ask questions about relatives and friends? Could anybody be that uninterested? At the crest of the rise, the guides paused, and the settlers leaned against their carts or sat on the ground to rest. In the valley below were little clumps of houses, long, low buildings, arranged in groups of three and four, with a hundred yards or so between each group. Off to the right, a hill, steep and lofty, stood alone in the rolling plain. Almost at the summit, in a cleft in the rock, was a building shaped like a semicircle, topped with a slim spire. Its walls seemed mostly windows. They glinted golden in the warm light. "And who lives up there, I wonder," said Red Brace. "I could make a guess," Harvey said. "Mr. Big. A nice, cozy spot where he can sit all day and spit down everybody else's throat." "I'm sure," Harvey said, "the gentleman never does anything as inelegant as that." The clusters of buildings had looked close. It took fully an hour before the settlers reached them. By that time, they were hot and thirsty and dispirited. As they went up the village street, the guides pointed out the numbered houses, and the settlers assigned to them left the column and carried their luggage inside. Most of them were inside only a few minutes before they came to the doorways to stare unhappily at each other. They had found that the houses, made of wood and plaster, each consisted of three boxy rooms containing a few sticks of crudely made furniture. Nothing was painted. There was no glass in the windows. The beds consisted of four posts with mattresses of woven vines. "What did you expect -- innersprings?" Harvey said. "Remember -- Colonel Baker never said you'd get innersprings on this planet. The man never told you a lie." The toilets were tiny out-houses, a hundred yards away in the field. "Oh, dear," Ruth said. "Well, you can't expect the man to transport sewer pipe to Paradise," Harvey said grimly. He stood in the doorway and waited until the guides had deposited the last of the settlers and were started on their return trip. Harvey called to them as they came by. They glanced at him blankly, said something to each other, and kept on walking. Harvey leaped to the street, raced after them, grabbed them by the shoulders and spun them both around. "When I talk to somebody, I expect an answer," he said savagely. The two guides looked at him with worn, emotionless eyes. They stood there, shoulders drooping slightly in a weirdly identical posture. "What's this all about?" Harvey said, subduing his voice with difficulty. He waited. Nothing came out of them. "Do you work for Baker? Don't you have farms like the rest of us?" The stocky one's mouth twisted slightly. Then he spoke. "We have farms," he said in a low, sullen voice. "We are also guides. We couldn't work our farms all the way. We had to do extra work to meet our payments." Harvey stared at them. "Payments for what? Didn't you pay for the farms before you came here?" "Payments for the oxygen," said the stocky man. "'What do you mean?" A weak, sardonic smile edged across their faces. "They weren't told," the tall man said. Harvey boiled over. He grabbed one man by the throat. "Told what, goddamn you? Talk!" The pale eyes stared into his. The sardonic smile stayed on the man's lips. "Told that you'll have to work all day, every day, dawn to dark" -- his voice hardened viciously -- "to pay for the oxygen you breathe." His smile widened as he saw the alarm in Harvey's face. Harvey loosened his grip, but the man kept his face close to his. "You see that tube of oxygen on your back? That will last you one day. When you get a new one, you will owe a hundred credits. Do you understand now? You'll never be able to stop working, because you can't get ahead of that hundred credits a day, you just about make it if you work all day -- and you have to make it, do you understand, you fool? -- you have to, if you want your oxygen tomorrow, if you want to breathe." Harvey watched dazedly as the two guides turned and started away down the road, and then, abruptly, the stocky one looked back and yelled back, "You're slaves! All of you! You're the same as us! You're slaves!" Ruth, wide-eyed, was waiting at the doorway for liim, when he came back. "You heard them?" Harvey said shakily. "I heard," Ruth said in a quiet voice. "Lord, what did I get you into?" She put a hand on his arm. "There's nothing to grieve about. If we find that things just don't work out, we'll stick it out for two years and save up enough for our return passage." Harvey looked at her brokenly. "If what they say is true, how can you save anything?" afterward, the guide could have been talking nonsense, he could have been some sort of nut. So Harvey said nothing about his encounter to the other settlers. But after three days, everybody knew the true conditions of their existence. The story was made explicit by the little debit-and-credit book that each settler was given. Every evening a caravan of Baker's men, pulling carts, came down the road, collected what the settlers had harvested during the day, and marked the credits in their books. Those who worked from dawn to dusk usually managed to achieve # credits. A few went over # -- three, four, or five credits over -- and were told that if they kept this rate up, why, in six months or so, they'd have enough credits to buy some clothes at the central commissary. Several settlers fell short each day. They got particular attention from the man who collected the depleted oxygen tanks from the settlers and handed each a new one. "We're not cutting anybody's oxygen off -- not right away," he said. "But if I were you. I'd get working -- fast. The Colonel looks these accounts over every night. He doesn't like anybody getting far in arrears." Dr. Lurie, .who, with his wife, had averaged only # credits on each of the first three days, spoke up puzzledly. "Do you mean -- do you mean you actually let people -- asphyxiate?" The leader gave a nasty grin. "I didn't say that -- I just said we don't give them any more oxygen. What they do after that is their business." "Is that right?" growled Red Brace. He moved slowly through to the front of the crowd and then, with a lunge, grabbed the leader by the throat. "I'm just going to squeeze, and squeeze," he gritted, "and what happens to you is your business." Harvey leaped forward and grabbed Brace's arms. "Let go, Red!" he yelled. "Let go!" Brace jammed him aside with a jerk of his big shoulders. Harvey leaped at him again. "For God's sake, Red, this isn't the one -- it's not his fault!" He yanked at Brace's arms. It was like yanking an oak. Harvey stepped back, his mouth grim, and slammed his fist into Brace's jaw. Red Brace staggered. The caravan leader slipped from his hands and oozed down on the ground, gasping weakly. Red Brace's fists tightened and he turned on Harvey. "Goddam you, you want to get yourself killed?" They stood there, glowering at each other, breathing hard. "The guy is only one of Baker's slaves," Harvey said. "Why were you taking it out on him?" The caravan leader was on his feet now. "That's what I was trying to tell him," he said weakly. "I'm only carrying out orders. I've got to work my place and work for Baker, too, to make up my credits. You know how long I'd last if I didn't carry out orders." "Okay, okay," Harvey said, suddenly sick of the whole thing. "We've got our oxygen, we've got our lecture. Now take off." The settlers watched Baker's men move to their wagons, like a troop of horses, and slowly set out up the road. "All right," Red Brace growled abruptly, "I'm sorry. But you didn't have any call to take a poke at me." "You were about to kill the guy," Harvey snapped. "All right, all right, I said I'm sorry. It was the wrong guy. Now let's go after the right one." In the center of the settlement, at the side of the road, was a yelfor communications. A loudspeaker on the roof brought messages from the central office. Inside the booth was a microphone and other electronic apparatus. Dr. Lurie sat down before the microphone and pressed the Call button. He cleared his throat. "I -- we want to talk to Colonel Baker personally," he said. I N A large circular room, with a huge curving window overlooking the golden valley, sat Colonel Martin E. Baker, sipping a Scotch highball. It was a weak highball; Colonel Baker really didn't enjoy drinking. But his doctor had told him, on the periodic physical he had taken during his last visit to Earth, that a mild drink before dinner might help overcome his dyspepsia. "Tenseness," the doctor had said. "You've got to relax more." This seemed preposterous to Colonel Baker, who always thought himself to be a very relaxed person, but there was no denying the dyspepsia -- it was there all the time -- that might ameliorate it. When the gentle buzzer sounded and the red light glowed on the communications set, Colonel Baker went over to it, flipped the switch and leaned back in his reclining chair. "Yes?" said Baker pleasantly. He was rather tickled with the arrangement that permitted him to watch the faces of people who were unaware of the television camera focused on them. "Sir said Dr. Lurie in a strained voice, "there has been -- there is -- a good deal of dissatisfaction in our group. This system of credits doesn't seem equitable. Some of us find it extremely difficult to amass a hundred credits a day, and yet that is the amount we are charged for our daily tube of oxygen. Now, sir, we believe it would be fair if you reduced the charge for the oxygen, to, shall we say, eighty credits?" Baker took another sip of his highball. "Impossible," he said. "I'm sorry, but it's impossible." He watched Dr. Lurie's face go through some nervous gyrations. "Why, sir?" "The economy of this entire settlement was carefully worked out with the counsel of economists," Colonel Baker said. "You realize that we just can't step in and change one part without upsetting the entire pattern. We can't tinker -- it's too hazardous." "But, sir, we find that we're just working for our respiratory needs, so to speak. That, plus the little food we consume ourselves from what we harvest. Oxygen and food -- isn't there any possibility of our earning anything more? "There have been settlers who have amassed enough credits to import some things from Earth. It's all a matter of the rate of work. Incidentally, I've noticed your production figures. Dr. Lurie. I wouldn't keep on this way, if I were you. Deficits pile up. The situation can become dangerous faster than you imagine." Even over the televiewer. Baker could see Dr. Lurie's face pale. A hand suddenly appeared, pushing Dr. Lurie aside. The big face of the redhead, Brace, appeared on the screen. "Listen, Baker," he roared, "if we don't get a better deal, we'll strike. You won't get a damn thing out of us. And what the hell're you going to do about that?" Baker sipped his Scotch and smiled. "You're all free agents," he said gently. "Far be it for me to attempt to dictate your behavior. You're at liberty to do as you please." Dr. Lurie's voice came over in a tense whisper. "He'll cut off our oxygen!" "He wouldn't dare," Brace snarled. "Nobody goes and kills a couple of hundred people." Baker chuckled loud enough for the settlers to hear. "If that is all, gentlemen, good day," he said, and flicked a switch. But it was only a one-way switch, shutting off sound from his direction but permitting him to see and hear the settlers. Their talk didn't go on very long before Baker could see that Brace had lost -- the thought of not seeing the oxygen wagons come along in the evening was too frightening. "All right, you jerks," Red Brace shouted, "I'll go after him myself." He strode off up the road. Harvey Flanders ran after him. Baker could see, but not hear, the heated colloquy as the two men walked on, and then, finally. Brace turned around and came back, and the two men disappeared inside Flanders' house. Baker flicked a switch. Carsing's face appeared on the screen, with a brisk, "Yes, sir?" "Might be some trouble the next couple of days -- perhaps even tonight," Baker said. "Double-check the infrared warning system, will you?" "Yes, sir." Baker went back to his highball, feeling rather pleasant. Late that night, in Harvey Flanders' house, a long discussion went on among Harvey, Brace, Dr. Lurie, and the Schweitzer twins. "I went over it in detail with some of the old-timers here," Harvey said. "I also did some personal scouting, and everything they said seems to be true. Here's the setup: "Our idea of raiding the commissary for a lot of oxygen tanks is out. They don't keep any stock; there's never more than a single day's supply for the settlement. Of course, we can't make off with that, unless we want to kill off everybody else. "The oxygen plant itself is right up there on the hill, next to Baker's house. That's the key to his control, and he keeps it right under his thumb. Nobody -- I mean nobody -- except Carsing ever goes up there. They've got an endless belt system for taking up the empty tanks and sending back the full ones to the commissary." "That makes the whole thing simple," Red Brace said impatiently. "We go up there, knock off Baker and Carsing, and take over the oxygen factory." "It's not that simple," Harvey said. "I imagine the old boy has a way of keeping strangers out. The story I get is that he's got some sort of electronic telescope, and he sits up there all day watching everything that's going on. You're not going to sneak up on him, exactly." Brace stood up. "The longer we sit and talk, the more time he has to get set for us. Anybody coming with me?" He looked around. "Frankly, I don't give a damn if anybody comes or not. You'd only be in the way, anyway." He headed for the doorway. "Red, you can't go off halfcocked like this," Harvey pleaded. "So long," said Brace and went out into the cloudy night. Harvey looked around desperately. "We've got to stop him." "I say let him go," said Dr. Lurie. "He might find out something of value." "Get himself killed, more likely." Harvey went to the doorway. "Red!" he shouted. He got no answer. The road was empty as far as he could see in the clotted darkness. He raced around to the rear of the house and stood still. Faintly he heard the crunch and crackle of steps in the grain field. Red was hitting across country. Harvey raced into the field. "Red!" he shouted. Harvey found him by the sounds. Brace was coldly angry. "Either you pipe down and come along, or you go on back. Nobody's stopping me. If you try any monkey business. I'll kill you, and I'm not kidding." Harvey fell in alongside him. "You're the craziest jerk I ever saw." "Pipe down before you give us away," Brace growled. The hill loomed ahead of them like a giant blot against the sky. On their left were the thick woods where the settlers gathered timber for fencing and bridging. Straight ahead was a deep stream, traversed by a single bridge. "That bridge is a likely place for a burglar alarm," Harvey said. "We'd better swim." They took off their clothes and left them on the bank. They let themselves carefully down into the water and set out, using the breast stroke to keep the oxygen apparatus out of the water. They clambered up on the other side, chilled and shivering, and continued, naked, toward the hill. The ground roughened underfoot; the rise began. There was no apparent road. Here and there stood small blighted trees, devoid of foliage, standing like posts -- They weren't trees at all! Harvey gripped Brace's arm. "Keep away from those posts," he whispered. They continued upward slowly. Harvey heard a faint click. He stopped. "Hear that?" he whispered, "that click?" Brace shook his head. They stood still, listening. There was no other sound. Brace took a step forward, and stopped. "I heard it," he whispered. They sank to the ground, and stretched out on their bellies, and waited tensely. Not a sound came out of the surrounding darkness. Far ahead, high in the sky, the windows of Baker's castle dimly glowed with a yellow light. There was still a long way to go. Brace sat up and jerked a hand impatiently at Harvey. They got to their feet and moved forward. They were moving through trees now. Harvey followed Brace reluctantly. There was something funny. Some sound he was hearing -- or wasn't hearing -- "Red!" It was the oxygen pack. The soft, bubbling murmur it always made was gone. "My oxygen is off! Yours, too! We've got to get back -- fast!" Brace's eyes flared white in the darkness. "Gome on," Harvey shouted, and rushed back through the trees. Brace came lumbering after him, protesting loudly. They raced across an open space -- there were the posts again -- they passed them -- Click! And now Harvey knew where the click came from. It came from inside his oxygen pack. Almost instantly, he felt the soft flow of the oxygen through the tubes. He sat down. Brace sat down heavily beside him. "Those posts," Harvey said. "He must have them all around the hill. They throw out a radio wave that shuts these things off when you go past them." He shook his head ruefully. "I should have guessed it. When I first took a look inside this oxygen pack, I noticed something that looked like a transistor, but I couldn't imagine what that could have to do with oxygen." Brace let out a long breath. "We should have kept going," he said bitterly. "There was a good two hours of climbing ahead of us. We'd have been dead a long time before we got there." "Okay," Brace said. "Let's go wreck these radio posts." "I'm afraid he has that all figured out," Harvey said sadly. "You notice the posts shut you off when you're going one way, and turn you on again when you're going back. If you go over there and wreck them, there'll be nothing to turn you on again." Red cursed long and loud. "There must be some way to beat this oxygen racket." "We'll think of something," Harvey said determinedly. But the echo of his confident words rapidly faded as they moved through the grain fields. He was tired and chilled. Think of something? That white-haired devil in that eagle's nest had been thinking of the same subject for a decade. Could there be any angles he had overlooked? Long after Ruth was asleep that night, Harvey lay in bed thinking. He reviewed, item by item, everything he could remember about electricity, radiation, the laws of gases, atmospheric constituents, the mechanics of partial pressures -- all the tag-end memories of his college science courses. He felt that if there was a solution, it had to be something elementary, something that matched the simplicity of Baker's own idea. The thoughts went around and around in his brain, an intricate and dizzying dance, forming a pattern that grew fuzzier and fuzzier and fuzzier... He sat up with a start. His brain was tingling with something... something that seemed to be ... He struggled into his clothes, and dashed out of the house. He ran up the dark road and burst into Dr. Lurie's house. "Doc, Doc, wake up!" he yelled. "I need some scientific advice!" Shortly after sunrise, when most of the settlers were heading for the fields, Harvey and Dr. Lurie went do the talking," Harvey said. "I'd prefer it that way," Dr. Lurie said. B aker, sitting before the electronic telescope, was enjoying the sight of the great phalanx of settlers swarming into the fields, when the buzzer sounded on his communication set. In a moment, two faces appeared -- Dr. Lurie and Harvey Flanders. They weren't wearing their oxygen packs. "Good morning, gentlemen," Baker said affably. "Hiya," said Harvey Flanders. "Well!" said Baker. "I'm certainly glad to see you in such good spirits after last night's expedition." "Thanks," Harvey said. "All we want to tell you is that you don't have to send us any oxygen any more." Baker chuckled. "I see. You are going on strike, eh?" "No," Harvey said, "we're going to keep working -- but for ourselves, not for you, Colonel. You see. Dr. Lurie here has put his scientific brain to work and come up with a substitute for your oxygen pack." "How incredible," Baker said pleasantly. "And what is the substitute, if I may ask? Alcohol?" "No, it's still oxygen, Colonel, but not the way your pack handles it. You see. Dr. Lurie has figured out a way to use atomic, not molecular, oxygen -- O instead of O # , if you follow me -- and to give it by injection in a highly concentrated form. As you see, we're not wearing oxygen packs any more." "So I noticed. But I'm afraid your little hoax can't go on very long. In another two minutes, my friends, you'll be gasping like fish and running frantically home to get those pesky oxygen packs." "Why don't you time us?" Baker sipped his coffee. "I am timing you, my friends. There are certain principles of physiology that can't be contravened. We're at the oxygen equivalent of a #-foot elevation. The average duration of useful consciousness is two and a half minutes." Baker sipped his coffee, watching the faces of the two men. The clock on his desk moved past two minutes. Two and a half minutes. Baker shrugged. He knew there were some exceptions. Some persons in superior physiological condition had proved in aeronautical tests on Earth to be able to go on for as long as four minutes in as rarefied oxygen as existed here. But no more than four minutes. The clock hand reached four minutes. The men still sat there. He had timed them wrong. He had missed a minute. Certainly. They were going to start sagging now. Now. Another minute went by. Another minute. The men sat there, looking straight at him through the tele-screen. There was a cynical smile on their faces, as if they knew the camera was on them -- as if they could actually see him. Another minute passed. Another minute. Baker leaped to his feet. "Die, damn you!" he screamed. The two men burst into laughter that exploded all over the screen. With a curse. Baker switched off the set and stood there, breathing hard. A moment later, he flicked it on again. The two men were leaving the booth. "Come back," he yelled. They turned, part way. Their indifference was maddening. "Come up here," Baker commanded. "I want to see your invention. I want to buy it." "Not interested." "Damn you, you must!" Baker shouted, his heart beating furiously. His hypnotized eyes kept swinging back to the clock. At least eleven minutes had passed! "We're not walking into any trap. Colonel," Harvey Flanders said. "If you want to do any dickering, you'll have to come see us. You know where to get us if you want us." The two men started up the road. Baker watched them with sick eyes as they went with firm steps to Harvey Flanders' house, and disappeared inside the doorway. Inside Harvey Flanders' doorway, Dr. Lurie staggered. Harvey caught him, but didn't have the strength to hold him, and both sagged to the floor. "Quick, Ruth," Harvey said, gasping. She was waiting with the oxygen packs. Red Brace was with her. They fitted the masks quickly over the faces of the two men on the floor, and anxiously watched their rapid, intense breathing. In a little while, Harvey and Dr. Lurie were breathing at a normal rate. They got up and sat at the table, where Ruth had breakfast ready. "Do you think he'll come?" Dr. Lurie said. "He has to," Harvey said. "He can't afford to let anybody spread a new gospel among his people." "Would you guys mind explaining what this is all about?" growled Red Brace. Harvey laughed. "Sure, Red. It's nothing complicated ; not very, anyway. Baker keeps plugging away at the fact that this is the same as living at a #-foot altitude. It struck me suddenly that if that were really the case, some of us would be suffering from nose bleeds and other symptoms you get when you go up to a thin atmosphere, where the outside pressure is less than the body's blood pressure. But nothing like that has happened. So obviously, the atmospheric pressure must be about normal -- the same pressure we have on Earth. There's less oxygen, but there's more carbon dioxide and there must be more of other gases, like nitrogen, to make up the full amount of pressure. "So you see where Baker figured wrong. He figured that if the amount of oxygen here is the equivalent of what exists at # feet, on Earth, then the survival time here ought to be the same as at # feet. But the analogy is wrong. At # feet above Earth, the atmospheric pressure is so light that whatever oxygen is in your blood bubbles out pretty fast. But here, where we have normal pressure, the atmosphere is pushing in on us a lot harder and keeps the oxygen in the blood longer. You follow me? "Anyway, I put all this to Doc Lurie last night and he said I must be right. So he got out some of his books and did some figuring, and what he came up with was this: If we rested -- didn't move -- while we breathed from our packs, getting our blood a hundred percent saturated, then we could take off the packs and go as long as fourteen or fifteen minutes before we keeled over. Long enough to convince that old buzzard that we've invented a new gimmick for giving oxygen by injection. He's up there in his palace now tearing out his hair -- or more probably hotfooting this way." Red Brace leaned against the doorpost and grunted contentedly. "Boy, when I get my mitts on him." "Red," Harvey said, "this time you can get as rough as you like. I don't care what happens to him. You keep a lookout at the window. Soon as Baker gets close, everybody take off your oxygen mask and stow it out of sight. We don't want him getting suspicious about the Lurie invention. Another thing: We'll need something for him to see when he walks in the door -- a box that looks as if it contains some sort of instruments." "I've got some boxes," Ruth said, going back into the bedroom. "Okay. Now, Doc, you'll do the talking, and Red and I will do the grabbing. But look casual as hell when he walks in." Ruth placed a covered box on the table. "Impressive," Harvey said. "Now, everybody, sit down and relax. It might be a long wait." "Not so long," said Red Brace a little while later. "They're coming over the crest right now." "Who's with him?" "Looks like Carsing." "I might have guessed that." Harvey watched a while at the window, then turned back. "Okay, everybody, masks out of sight." There was a pause; a sound on the outside step. Then into the doorway walked Carsing. His hand made a swift motion inside his coat and out again. The squat, ugly barrel of an explosive scatter-gun glinted at them. "Everybody back against the wall," Carsing said. "Colonel Baker doesn't want to be crowded." Slowly, tensely, staring at each other, they moved to the wall opposite the doorway. Baker walked in. His eyes made a quick circuit of the room, stopped briefly at the box, then turned to them. "What's the gun for?" Harvey said bitterly. Baker smiled. "You didn't trust me, hence I didn't trust you. Mistrust begets mistrust. Now, gentlemen," he said briskly, "explain this invention you told me about." "Before we do any explaining, we want you to know what we want." "Go right ahead." Baker pulled a chair to the doorway and sat down. "Name your price." "We'll take the gun." Baker's eyebrows rose. "Impossible. This is the only weapon on the planet." "That's all right with us. Hand it over and we'll tell you all about our invention." "I'm sorry, this weapon must remain in our hands. We're responsible for maintaining order and stability -- it wouldn't make sense for anyone else to have custody of it Now let's get on with the business. This box, I presume -- " "Not a word until we get the gun," Harvey said. Baker's eyes narrowed. "Young man, you'd better hold your tongue. Dr. Lurie, I'm talking to you. I want the facts -- immediately. And I must tell you, you're in no position to negotiate. Now speak up." "I, sir -- I -- " Dr. Lurie's voice broke -- he began again -- "I'll do what Mr. Flanders says -- " "We'll see about that," Baker said grimly. He stood up. "You're coming with me. Carsing, take the box." Carsing, holding the gun out warily in front of him, moved to the table. "Don't you dare open it!" Ruth cried out. Garsing stared at her. Then, holding the gun against his armpit with one hand, a finger on the trigger, he reached with his free hand and unhooked the lid -- Something sprang out of the box at his face -- "Watch out. Carsing!" Baker shouted -- but Harvey was already halfway across the room. He dove across the table, one hand aimed at Carsing's chest, the other slamming against the moving weapon, knocking it upward, backward -- Shot spattered through and around the doorway. Baker had leaped aside as he saw the muzzle swinging in his direction. Now he made a quick move toward Harvey and Carsing, tangled and struggling on the floor -- but a blow from Brace's fist caught him on the cheekbone and sent him crashing back against the wall. Brace darted down at the struggling men. He stood up a moment later, holding the gun. Garsing struggled upward, out of Harvey's grasp and reached for the gun. Brace's foot shot out and crashed with ferocious impact against his jaw. Carsing's head slammed backward against the floor. His body arched a moment, and then went limp all over. Harvey sat up, breathing hard. Ruth already had her oxygen pack on and quickly adjusted his. "Get mine," Red Brace said. He was standing in the middle of the floor, the gun trained on Baker, who stood half-slumped against the wall, watching them dazedly. There was a hissing in the air, A soft, persistent hissing. "Somebody has a leak!" Dr. Lurie shouted. Harvey, Ruth, Brace frantically felt their oxygen packs -- and then their hands stopped, and they stared at Baker. A jagged hole, caused by a small bit of shot, was visible on the side of his oxygen pack. "Give the orders, Flanders," Brace said. "Do I blast him?" "Won't be necessary, Red," Harvey said quietly. Baker looked from one to the other with puzzled eyes. Then he muttered, "I must be going," and swung away from the wall, and out the door. He stopped. He felt his pack. He came rushing back, his eyes wide with terror. "A leak!" he shrilled. "I need another pack!" "Sorry, we've only one apiece," Harvey said. "You know that." Baker's lips trembled. His face was white. "Your invention! Your invention! I'll make any deal you want. Hurry!" "There's no invention," Harvey said gently. "Don't you know that by now?" Suddenly Baker leaped forward, his hands flying. He had the oxygen mask half off Harvey's face before Harvey could untwist his hands and wrench free. Baker stood there, breathing hard. Abruptly he turned and rushed out to the road. "Somebody!" he yelled. "Somebody give me a pack! I'll pay anything!" Homesteaders peered at him in amazement from their doorways -- then shut their doors as he rushed at them. "I'll pay anything!" Baker screamed at the pitilessly closed doors, "This is what he was leading up to for ten years' said Brace. Harvey looked at the purple box. "A jack-in-the-box' he said softly. "Ruth where in the world did this thing ever come from?" "I brought it with me' Ruth said defiantly. "I thought maybe it might be hard to get toys here -- and maybe we might want toys someday... for somebody." Carsing stirred and groaned. "That's a relief -- we're going to need the man to show us how to run the oxygen works," Harvey said. "Okay, kids, let's go to work. There's a lot to be done." "Going to try to get a ship for the trip back home?" asked Brace. "I don't know," said Harvey. "Maybe we can make a go of it after all," he went on dreamily, "we might be able to pump oxygen into the houses so you don't have to wear a mask when you're home relaxing... or making love." He put an arm around Ruth's shoulders. "Who knows? -- maybe one of these days we might find use for those toys you brought."    What Is Your Science I. Q.? Count # for each correct answer: # is good, # excellent! Answers on page #. #. The weight of a cubic centimeter of water at # C. is used as the unit of weight in the system. #. What is another name for a thermionic valve? #. Meteors composed of metal and stone are called #. Do the molecules of a liquid have greater or lesser cohesion than those of a gas? #. A body with an excess of electrons is charged. #. The belt of low atmospheric pressure found around the equator is called the #. What unit of measurement describes electromotive force? #. The Dewar Flask is a container for #. About how much of the weight of protoplasm consists of proteins? #. The dark lines on the solar spectrum are called lines. #. What do we call the involuntary response of an organism to the effects of gravity? #. The Fitzgerald effect postulates that the length of a body as its speed increases. ( Continued from page # ) the elaborateness of the study program and the degree of importance the scientists attach to any particular area. The ground stations themselves can be largely automatic in operation. They can consist of a radio receiver and recording device which can be turned on by the signal from the Satellite. After the signal has faded out, a time delay device can turn off the station receiver. Certain of the stations should be manned, however. These should contain scientific personnel equipped with powerful telescopes, theodolites and radio transmitters to be used for monitoring the flight of the Satellite and making any corrections in its attitude or its orbit that may be necessary. For this purpose a computer could be used to calculate the actual orbit and compute the correction required to regain the desired orbital position. The orbit will require correction to compensate for loss in altitude due to the residual atmosphere even at three hundred miles altitude. These stations need not be in remote areas, since the Satellite will pass over any area of the Earth every # hours. The purpose of this article has been to propose an orbital satellite which would provide a maximum amount of data on the phenomena connected with the Earth and the upper atmosphere surrounding it. The information gained from such a satellite would also remove many of the obstacles in the path of man's next great conquest -- outer space. Satellites of the future will undoubtedly be larger and more elaborate, leading up to the final goal, the manned space platform. From it we will be able to keep watch on our weather, look out for potential infractors of peace and, finally, use it as a spring board for the long dive into the vast ocean of space, with destination, who knows? (We wish to express thanks to Dr, R. S, Richardson of Mount Wilson and Palomar Observatories, for information and help on the subject of possible orbits for this satellite vehicle,)    The goals that science seeks are not merely more food, more products, more gadgets. The goal in the last analysis is a moral goal -- more happiness for human beings, expressed in whatever terms their own philosophy dictates. -- L.A, Du Bridge Balance is a fundamental law of order. How, then, can integrity cancel such a principle even though the future of Mankind demands it? X His name was Tharn, and he was known throughout the sprawling colony for the highstrung nervousness that was understandable enough in a youth of fifty, but hardly normal for a man of his years. You had to be careful how you talked to Tharn, even if you were Angelo, Dean of Masters, himself. "I don't like it," Tharn reiterated, with another dramatic sweep of his long bony arm, "one bit, Angelo. Look at them, circling up there." The thin, lined face turned squarely to Angelo's own, and the large, almost protruding black eyes snapped with all the vibrant fire of the fine artistic mind that boiled constantly behind them. Angelo turned his own eyes upward, momentarily following Tham's still-upthrust arm. Although he did not need to look again. It was as the Second-Eldest of the colony said, of course. The slender, stylus-shaped object that reflected the golden midday sunlight in splintering shards against the almost cloudless cobalt of the sky still circled. It would land at the edge of the great colony. Angelo knew this, Tham knew it, the colony knew it. Angelo turned his old eyes back upon Tharn, and the ghost of a smile plucked at his white-bearded lips. Tham colored, suddenly aware of the incongruous picture he presented. Poised with all the drama of a Mark Antony pleading to the populace to sorrow for a Caesar, while rather mundanely bedecked in his paint-spattered workingsmock! The high color in his seamed face remained, but he pursued his point as though Angelo had never smiled at all. "They won't be satisfied -- " Angelo got up from the canvas stool before his easel, and the motion itself was enough to halt Tham in mid-sentence. There was going to be some sort of action, anyway. "Now look," Angelo said slowly. His voice carried the measured deliberation that its rich, deep timbre complemented so harmoniously. "First of all, Tharn, if we begin showing signs of undue alarm, you know what it will do to our younger men and women. They'll be upset for weeks, and we'll have another one of those terrible Realist periods." Angelo grimaced with his incredibly bushy eyebrows. "Besides that, if you'd take a really careful look at that ship, you'd see in a moment that it's certainly of a type none of us have ever seen. We certainly cannot prevent its landing. We certainly do not have the means to present a hostile front when it does. Therefore, we shall go to the Dell and greet it. I would estimate -- " Angelo turned his massive, white head slowly for another glance above the low, alabaster walls of the mosaic-tiled court-yard, "that they will effect a landing within another ten minutes or so. If you'll send an apprentice to go fetch Maler, the Philosopher, and Ghezi, the Semanticist, and -- and I think Ojar, the Orator, with word to meet us by the Lesser Amphitheater there, we can be on our way directly. Oh -- and Tharn -- " Tham followed the First-Elder's glance to his paint-smeared smock, colored once more, and immediately erupted into a volcano of action, as though rounding up a young jack-a-napes apprentice and locating and donning a suitable street toga were things that could be simultaneously accomplished. He exited, mumbling heatedly between cries of "Boy! Boy.'" and Angelo smiled again, and prepared his own person for the meeting. He mused that Maler, the Philosopher, commented often in his evening wine that to run was never to escape, only to change the pattern of pursuit, and of course you couldn't argue much with Maler. Not and win, -- but then, nobody on Ste. Catherine very often argued to win. Where was the pleasure in that?" T here was a great, scorched spot in the soft greenness of the gently-rolling earth, and it widened like an undammed, muddy pool as the thundering, cylinder of steel lowered itself on a pillar of flame. They kept a respectable distance; Angelo, Tharn, Maler, Ghezi, Ojar, and the several hundred curious and apprehensive of the colony who had followed. Angelo had decided the closest possible spot for waiting, stopped there, and then made no move save to shield his eyes from the terrible glare of the ship's landing-jets as it made its cautious descent. As he had predicted, the chosen landing-spot was at the extreme northern edge of the Dell, near the Lesser Amphitheater. And they had all just arrived in time. The ship settled; its thunder ceased. Masters, Students, and apprentices alike unshielded their eyes, and then all were turned in unbroken silence toward Angelo himself. He was Dean. He could deal with this. Angelo hesitated for perhaps a full minute. In that time he ordered the scene in his mind; the ship from Space, thrust upward toward the heavens like some weapon of challenge, surrounded by the gentle undulations of the low Renoir range to the far west ; the rugged, ice-capped Alps of Cezanne to the south and further distant still; the low, wind-tossed and wild Van Gogh Plain that stretched endlessly to the east, and finally to the north, the fertile richness of the VEilleys of Rembrandt which reached as far as the eye could see. All this, and the warmth of the clear atmosphere that embraced it all was seen and felt in that minute -- by Angelo, and by the rest, as he intended they should, Thisy the minute seemed to say, is yours. Do not betray it. And then he was walking with the dignified deliberation of his office toward the ship, the pure white of his full toga billowing gently in the soft breezes of the Dell. There was a clanging sound. A round section of the ship, near the wide fins of its stern, swung open; men came through it, started down a series of metal rungs to the ground. As he walked, Angelo counted them -- one; two; three. Three men. Three men from Earth, of course. And he knew what they wanted. They met halfway; three men from Earth in their blue-and-silver uniforms, their heads close-shaven, their boots polished as though fashioned of metal... and Angelo, inches shorter than they, far greater in girth than they, with his feet in hide sandals, and his long white hair falling free to merge with the rolling folds of his single garment. The man in the middle of the uniformed trio spoke; the obvious leader. "This is the -- the Colony of Artists, Planet of Ste. Catherine?" The heavy sound of his voice seemed to balk at the words ever so slightly. "You are their leader?" "I am Angelo, Dean of Masters here," Angelo replied. "I do not lead, but guide, instead. I am at your service, gentlemen of Earth." "You seem certain of where we are from "But of course -- do I not immediately recognize and speak your tongue?" "You would, of course," the leader said, and Angelo did not miss the hint of grudging acknowledgement in his voice as he said it. In face he was little different than the other two, although perhaps a year or two older. But for all practical purposes they were the same -- the high foreheads, the too-closelyspaced blue eyes, the sharp, disciplined features, the lack of any genuine character at all. They were as much of the same bolt of cloth as the imiforms they wore. "Of course," Angelo smiled. "Our memories here on Ste. Catherine are fortunately long, and our libraries are well-filled -- and wellused! And of course we have been expecting you." Expecting us?" "Naturally," and again Angelo smiled. "It is a philosophical truth after all -- Man is a social creature by nature, and as such, must continually seek the company of his own kind. And of course," and there was the hint of a repressed glitter in the old man's eyes, "the people of Earth have always known, and have -- have never forgotten where we of Ste. Catherine were to be found." The leader reddened and seemed on the point of explosive speech, and the muscles of his jaw hardened as he controlled his impulse. Angelo waited. "You are of course -- correct," he said after a moment's pause. "And no it will perhaps be best for all that we understand each other clearly from the beginning. We come to you in some embarrassment, we come to you asking a favor." The last word the leader uttered with a distaste that the best of his selfdiscipline could not control, and Angelo chuckled inwardly. A favor, was it? Embarrassed, were they? He could quite imagine! "Perhaps," Angelo said, "it would be more comfortable to discuss your mission in my studio. Will you gentlemen follow me, please?" He turned and began walking back to where the others waited, and the three men from Earth followed him. At first they balked for the briefest moment, but they followed him. T he studio of Angelo, Dean of Masters, was open to the sky like his court-yard, for this was the fair season on Ste. Catherine in this latitude, and not yet time to draw the transparent tarpaulin skylight across the tops of the studio walls. Angelo had seated himself near the center of the superblymuraled room, on one of the low, colorful cushions so widely preferred in the colony to the more formal furniture that was still to be found, to some extent, in the shops and homes of the artisans. Artists in their own way, of course -- and some practical work had to be put up with to satisfy the more mundane requirements of existence. As long as they took true pride in the beauty of their work, the artisans would always be very welcome members of the colony -- as well, to be sure, as necessary. And seated in a semi-circle behind Angelo were the other Elders, and two or three advanced Students to cater to whatever needs might arise during the conference. There would be no apprentices here! Before Angelo, taking to their cushions rather awkwardly (his beard, fortunately, was of sufficient luxuriance to cloak the tiny smile of satisfaction at his lips!) were the three Earthmen; their leader, of course, in the center and facing Angelo directly. "We may begin at any time," Angelo said in his most courtly fashion. Those behind him nodded -- Tharn for once a little absently, because he had become involved in a rather difficult line-sketch on the tablet supplied him for note-taking. He didn't approve of these strangers, but there were more important things than interstellar visitors, especially since they were only Earthmen, and Angelo was insisting on taking full charge. He, Tham, was through arguing. Walking multiplicationtables! Pah! Angelo could have them, then! "It is possible you are not aware, here on Ste. Catherine," the leader began with the slightest tinge of sarcasm, "that on Earth there is, at present, a rather regrettable difference of thinking on policy." "Another political slaughter, that is," Angelo countered not too lightly for the obvious allusion to Ste. Catherine's complete lack of any kind of electrical or electronic communications. "A major war, in other words." The leader flushed slightly. "Well, yes. As a matter of fact, it has gotten somewhat out of control." His teeth were almost clenched as he made the admission, and Angelo easily sensed the pain in the man at having to make it to the Artists of Ste. Catherine, of all people in the universe. "Out of control," the leader was continuing, "to the point where, in fact, and according to the unimpeachable findings of our actuarial computers, human life on Earth is threatened with complete extinction." The leader hesitated, interpreted the looks in the eyes of the men whom he faced, and found himself not quite able to meet them with his own. But he continued; best to get it said once and for all. "We are now, of course, well aware that predictions which were once thought the mere rantings of alarmists -- religious and philosophical cranks -- were tragically accurate. Both sides are perfectly matched from the technological aspect, of course. The so-called 'secrets' of science cannot be kept 'secret' at all, at least not by men. They exist everywhere in the universe, for any man to seek and to exploit as he sees fit." He paused, at last found the timerity to meet the gazes of the others. "Go on," Angelo said. "Both sides have come to absolute stalemate. But not, regrettably, the kind of stalemate that means cessation of activity. In a conflict to the death, stalemate simply means battle without victory; battle until neither side has a living man left to fight. "So, in short, we are desperate. There must be a victor, or Earth is lost entirely. One more mass stratoattack with L-bombs and... Well, at any rate -- there must, as you can readily understand, be a victor, and soon. Obviously, the Others must be defeated." Yes of course, thought Maler, the Philosopher. It is the Others, always, who must he defeated... "And so we have," the leader was saying, "come to you for help." He stopped speaking then, for a moment, waiting for Angelo's reply. Waiting simply for him to ask "what kind of help could we Artists possibly give you..." -- waiting for, and prepared to take unflinchingly, the searing taunt that could not help but be in the question... " -- you who can fly ships through Space, who have at your computertips the hard-won miracles of science and engineering?" But wordlessly, the leader waited. And in the brief moment before he spoke, the history of it all flashed through Angelo's mind; the history that began with the Revolt, Three centuries ago, with the Ancestors of them all on Ste. Catherine. The artists, the philosophers, the writers, the orators, the dramatists, the poets -- all of them, who had, when at last they could no longer stomach their civilization's arrested adolescence and its refusal to be weaned from its electronic and atomic toys, remembered the first Fundamental Law of Order in art, and put it to devastating use. Unity. In Unity, they rebelled. They warned, first, in fairness. They took pains to point out carefully that it is a healthy sign for the developing child to become intrigued with movement, sound, and color -- that it was normal for a child to spend hours observing, examining, operating, even building a new mechanical toy. But when his new books gathered dust and fell into disuse -- when he could quote all of Faraday and none of Swinburne -- when this happened, his development as a human being of full depth and breadth was at an end. When he became hypnotized by his toys -- When motion and force became an obsession -- When the means became an end in itself ; when the tool became the raison-detre, rather than the structure it had been fashioned only to help build, then the point of civlization had been hopelessly lost, and thinking men had but one alternative: leave, and start over. And so, banded together, they had left. It had not been so difficult. For to the Ancestors, a tool was always that and nothing more. They could not build spaceships, but they could buy them, and so they had. They could not navigate Space nor pilot their craft, so they hired the technicians and engineers who could. And when the Ancestors had arrived at a planet of their choice (the scientists had been duly proud of their superior accomplishment in being able to find just such a planet -- and of course were paid more than the engineers and technicians) the Ancestors gave tliem all sizable bonuses and sent them packing back to Earth where there were so many fine Things to spend their money on. The Ancestors had, of course, been called dreamers, ivorytowerists, alarmists, fools. They had been called madmen who lived in the unenlightened past, believers in some foolishness called artistic integrity; schizoids who were afraid to face Reality. Posh, polish, and good riddance muttered the sane ones over their charts and oscilloscopes as the last of the Ancestors' ships blasted free of Earth. Muttered, of course, because there was, somehow, a vague awareness that the Culture-Vultures hadn't left in fear of the bright, quick Machines, but in -- well, they said, in disgust! Good riddance to childish rubbish. But now, apparently, the men of Earth had gotten themselves into something so peculiarly impossible that they were desperate enough to face the cutting wit of the fat-bottomed Artists on Ste. Catherine, who wouldn't be able to say "I told you so" in a straightforward, matter-of-fact way and let it go at that. Oh, no. But it would be better to have their damned articulate tongues tear you apart than an S-field. The moment of reflection was spent, and Angelo asked the question. "And how can we help you?" was all he said. The leader took a deep breath. "One moment," Angelo said as he was about to speak. "Just a word of warning if you please. If you want anything of us at all, simply state your case in plain language. Don't try to 'sell' us anything -- we can beat you roundly at that! And if we agree to your request, you will accept exactly what we give you; beggars, no matter how expert in some things, are still not in the position of choosers! A matter, after all, of -- shall we say, artistic integrity?" The leader's eyes flashed: Damn you and your infernal artistic in tegrity! but it was his mouth which, fortunately for him under the circumstances, did the talking. "Very well. As I said, both Sides are in perfect technological and therefore military balance -- "Balance is so important," interrupted Angelo. Behind him, Ojar, the Orator was having a difficult time repressing a yelp of pure mirth. It was unfair, of course, to bait these stumble-witted fellows like this, but it was amusing -- especially when Angelo did it, who, though a Painter, was well up on his word-play. "... Perhaps you have already noticed," Angelo was going on, quite oblivious to the perspiration on the leader's high forehead, and exactly as Ojar had expected, "how well we of Ste. Catherine observe the Fundamental Laws of Order. The Rhythm of our very way of life, for example -- but excuse me! You were outlining your request..." The leader had reddened helplessly, and his subordinates had both stolen quick glances at him. It was as though images of the man himself, reflected from mirrors at either side, had suddenly taken on a volition of movement of their own. But quite quickly they became wellbehaved images again. "Both sides have equally effective weapons and defenses," the leader went on, "and so it has become a disastrous war of attrition. To win, we must have something they do not have, obviously." "To bring your Side into Dominance, of course," said Angelo sagely. "To prevent your Subordination, as it were..." Ojar had a sudden, violent fit of coughing. "Yes," the leader said. There was a momentary blankness in his eyes, and Angelo decided that enough was enough. Unfairness was unfairness, after all. They must hear the man out. "We have looked back over history," the leader said. "It was an unprecedented step, to be sure, but we were desperate! At any rate, we discovered that one time, it was possible to make an enemy believe he was wrong, and that you, his enemy, were right, through a rather obscure verbal art called, I believe it was, propaganda?" "Yes," said Angelo. "The province in Art of writers and orators. As a painter or sculptor will create illusion with paints or stone, just so did the writer create illusion with letters." "So we came to understand," the leader said, trying a little note of sarcasm of his own. "Our present difficulty is this: we of course have no such peop -- er. Artists -- at our disposal. We of course tried our own hand at it but nobody ever seemed quite able to agree on just what it was we were trying to talk about, so -- well -- We have come to you. Will you do this for us? A few words, for the sake of humanity?" Clever, thought Maler, at that. An intended appeal to the philosophical side of the artistic mind. Maybe the poor wretch really meant it, even if he wasn't aware that "humanity" meant both Sides. "To answer you," Angelo was replying, "I'll of course have to summon our Master of Letters. It may not be easy to win his assent, I warn you. He can trace his own ancestry all the way back to newspaper reporters, advertising copywriters and tradejournal writers -- and so has naturally inherited their bitterness toward all such prostitutions of the Art of Writing, and artistic integrity in general. And you will admit that hacking out propaganda to order is of course just that, to say nothing of the moral aspects involved! However -- Magnanimously, Angelo lifted his right arm and beckoned, and a Student was at once at his side. "Fetch Master Forsyth at once. And tell him I said to leave his new Quarto behind; this is urgent." The young woman left, and they waited. "A cigarette?' Angelo proffered the leader. There was surprise on the man's face. "You mean you can make -- "Just crude paper and tobacco grown in the soil," Angelo said apologetically. "Untouched by any rays but the sun's, I'm afraid, and our few medicine-men -- we have all kinds of hobbies here of course -- just won't comment. Here... and a light... The leader had almost finished his cigarette when the Master of Letters arrived. "Angelo, you churl, sir! Do you know how long I've been working on that line? You know how difficult it is for me to get a decent trochee when I'm -- oh, company? Capital! 'Come fill the Cup, and in the Fire of Spring -- ' " "Please, Forsyth. These men are here on business. They want you to do them a favor." Resignedly, Forsyth kept quiet. And listened for good measure. He listened for ten minutes. And then the leader was finished and Forsyth said "A pox on't!" "Please, Forsyth -- "He's right! came Tham's voice. "I told you I didn't like it, and I dont, and -- " doesn't like it?" bellowed Forsyth. "Then by Heaven, I'll do it! Teach you, sire, to make charcoal caricatures of me on a day when I'm not lampooning you! Very well, but I don't think I've got too many apprentices that aren't engaged right at the moment. Nonetheless, if --  The leader was beyond control. "Apprentices, did you say?" he croaked hoarsely. "Why, you --  "What in Dante did you think, man-child?" shot back Forsyth. "You don't suppose I'd give you finished, creative writers for the job of a trained ape, do you? Some aj prentices I've got, and some apprentices you'll get -- and only because Dean Angelo here says so." T he three men from Earth strode with military precision back toward their ship. The leader was in the center, and his subordinates, each with bulging briefcases in both hands, were on either side. A large group from the colony walked at a slower pace behind. Angelo, as usual, was at their head, and flanking him were Tham and Forsyth. "Another whole week wasted!" lamented Forsyth. "Not that the time means anything, but those sensitive young boys and girls of mine will never be the same! One of them, just this morning, told me she was thinking of taking up politics as a hobby! The tortures I go through for you, Angelo -- "I still don't like it!" Tham cut him oflF. "And I don't like them! And, Forsyth, I saw what you had your precious little apprentices doing! You had them writing exactly the same tripe they wrote for that other crowd that landed two weeks ago!" "Tham, you certainly aren't the only one who has no use for that barbaric breed. So -- as long as they remain equally matched, they'll eventually, uh --  ""But that means --  "A Fundamental Law of Order, of course, my dear Tham. Balance, as I think I may already have pointed out..." Forsyth quoted something from on obscure source about the importance of artistic integrity, and then they watched together as the ship from Earth blasted homeward.    (Continued from page #) subject entitled Freedom of the American Road, and it is filled with remarkable photography, diagrams, drawings and maps. Scores of wellknown authors, reporters and experts have contributed articles and reports that are as exciting to read as they are informative. It was published -- not as a commercial book venture -- but as a promotion by The Ford Motor Company. Henry Ford II, in the foreword, says: "We do not attempt to give any one answer -- no master plan that will solve all our highway problems. Here, instead, are many ideas, many new approaches, all of them proved in action. "We hope that you, too, will find them inspiring, challenging, and useful -- right in your own community." If you have a traffic problem in your community, write for a copy -- for here is the graphic, fascinating story of counties, cities and villages all over America and what they have done to obtain better traffic conditions and safer roads. Pout Anderson's new novel is not science fiction but a historical novel entitled Taller Than Other Men which deals with the #th Century Norwegian King Harald Hardrede... Alan E. Nourse, now in the final stages of his internship at a Seattle Washington, hospital, hopes to practice in a small town. Object: fewer patients and more time for science fiction writing... Hollywood reported vying for Out of The Deeps by John Wyndham... Frederic Brown, whose last sf book success was Martians, Go Home, is now working on two novels -- one a straight novel, the other a "picaresque" sort of sf tale... Jack Vance is putting the final touches to a non-sf novel entitled Clarges for forthcoming Ballantine publication... Robert Sheckley, whose latest book was Citizen in Space, is considering taking his typewriter to Guatemala... Lester del Ray now at work on a novel based on his famous novelette Nerves... Mack Reynolds, when last heard of, was in Tangiers. Seems like he'd signed up for a trek with a desert caravan, with overnight stops at French Foreign Legion posts and destination Timbuktu... Dick Matheson back in California again where he is working on the movie adaptation of his book. The Shrinking Man. Both are scheduled for summer release . , . Mike Shaara, (who has an ideal name for a cop!) did a year's turn as a Florida policeman but has turned in his badge to return to science fiction writing .  . Mel Hunter, who did such an outstanding job with our satellite covers, coming up with a two page spread in Life... And Tom Godwin, Robert Young, Bryce Walton and Poul Anderson have some really top-notch yarns in the next IF . , . Don't miss them! -- jiq If research is to be intelligent and far-sighted it cannot mathematically follow the ups and downs of the short-range sales curve . -- Dow Rip Van Winkles may be real in # years if the success that has been achieved in restoring frozen hamsters can be transferred to humans. Tests at the Medical Research Center in London have proved that the hamsters can be put to sleep, packed in ice for a few hours, then gently thawed without damage to the brain or other internal organs. By treating certain organs with glycerine before freezing, scientists hope animals can be stored in a completely frozen state indefinitely. If so, they would be alive and no older when thawed out. The researchers also believe that airmen and seamen, who have been in accidents in frozen areas, should not be given up for dead, that resuscitation such as is used on the hamsters should be attempted. A skin "garden" in which living human skin will be grown is being set up at Duke University. If sue cessful it is expected to provide the means for saving thousands of lives now lost each year as a result of burns. A bit of the burned victim's own skin would be set to growing in the garden. In two weeks such a piece of growing skin may be multiplied to ten times its original size, as experiments have shown, and would be an excellent size for grafting. Since a skin graft from a donor lasts only ten to thirty days and the victim's own skin is necessary for a permanent graft, the skin garden would be an excellent source. The Duke project is believed to be the world's first attempt to reproduce the patient's whole skin, consisting of both outer layer and true skin for grafting. Cattle of the future may get an entire bale of hay in the form of a shovel full of pellets. Research experiments have shown that most feeds can be pelleted by subjecting them to certain tremendous pressures. A machine has been developed which can produce the # to # pound per square inch which is necessary. For the future farmer who owns such a "pelleting" machine it will reduce labor, the need for maintaining a quality feed and it will cut the cost of storage space, feed handling equipment and transportation. Scientists have predicted that seven more heavy elements, # through #, will be created in the next # years. The most likely production method will be an atom smasher such as the heavy ion linear reactor which will speed up very heavy nuclei, like neon. By hurling relatively large nuclei into the hearts of heavy atoms like uranium it should be possible to build up the heavier elements. Predictions also state that elements # through # should be stable enough to identify chemically. Those from # through # probably will decay so rapidly that they can be analyzed only from their radioactivity Buying and selling of stocks may some day really become the "sure thing" that investors dream of. Researchers have found that an electronic computer, when properly directed, can make the calculations necessary to indicate future trends on the market. The program is still so new that its success or failure is yet to be determined, but the experimenters are convinced that the correct formula can be found. They know that the chartists who plot the daily curves on opening and closing quotations have noted that a daily geometric pattern forms which seems to indicate future trends. If this pattern can be properly calculated by the computer, short range fluctuations should definitely be predictable. The armed services may in the future employ totally deaf individuals to work at jet air fields. Science knows that to the human ear noise above # decibles is intolerable, and modem jets already create sound levels around # decibles. Others in production will produce # to # decibles, or noise levels greater than humans can stand. In such an instance the man who is totally deaf has an advantage that is incalculable, and may well be the only individual who can bear the brunt of such noise levels. Safe and successful bone transplants using radiation-sterilized bones will soon be normal hospital procedure. The bones which can be taken from dead bodies, are cut into various sizes and shapes with a heavy duty band saw, then they are freeze-dried and sealed in glass tubes imder vacuum. To sterilize them, the glass tubes are placed within a concrete cave containing cobalt rods. At the end of a # hour period, the bone is removed and stored at room temperature. The treatment kills any bacteria and viruses that may have been in the bones, but there is no residual radioactivity and the character of the bone and its capacity for further growth are not changed. Parents may soon be able to know in advance whether the nursery ought to be pink for a girl or blue for a boy. A discovery by Canadian scientists has made it possible to determine the sex of an unborn infant about one month before it is born. From the amniotic fluid which surrounds the baby in the womb, doctors are able to determine whether the cell component known as chromatin, found only in female cells, is present. # -- Negatively. # -- Doldrums. # -- Volt. # -- Liquid air. # -- #. # -- Frauenhofer. #I -- Geotropism. # -- Contracts. Dear Editor: J. C. Hickman in "Hue and of April brings up the subject of interstellar civilizations and asks what others think about the subject. I cannot entertain the notion that we might be the first and most highly civilized race, as the editor states in his footnote to Mr. Hickman's letter. That idea would seem to be the height of conceit on man's part. I believe there may be people on our moon now, and so on and on in space there is life after life in some form. We may be very surprised at what we find "out there" when we begin to travel the stars. As I read between the lines of science fiction it seems to me the authors are aware of much that isn't published in the newspapers. And the truth we may someday find, may be much stranger than the fiction we read now. -- H. Conrad Port Orchard, Wash. Dear Mr. Quinn: I think it's a damn shame that a mag such as "If" should be running on a bimonthly schedule. The material you print is on a level with the best and far above that printed in some of the monthlies. In the April issue, I can say that I enjoyed every story. Jones' "Human Error" was written in the same style with which he appears in the "top" mags. It was a good story and well thought out. The drawing that accompanied was quite mediocre though. "Chrome Pastures" was another excellent job, except that I thought the epilogue was tacked on and should have been worked out in the story itself. Having met Harlan Ellison at a recent meeting of the Eastern Science Fiction Association, I enjoyed his story all the more. He's an up and coming talent and it's good to see him rise from the mass of fandom. -- Allan Cheuse Perth Amboy, N. J. Did you see Ellison s 'The Crackpots" in the June issue? Dear Editor: Aren't there any kind aliens? It seems to me that stories always depict them as so far above us that we are beneath contempt or that they are so monstrous they want to kill us all off and take over Earth for themselves. The general idea in S.F. seems to be to prepare man for what may be an inevitable meeting with such creatures; and to tell man that he's not ready for it; but when the aliens are constantly painted in such evil lights how will man ever be ready? How can you expect an alien to be acceptable unless some form of writing is used that will convince Mankind that those we might meet are not the monsters drawn in S-F? -- K. J. Ashton Gardner, Me. A good point and well taken... also one to which we wish we knew the answer. Anybody got any ideas? Gentlemen : I'm a reader of "If' because my son is a subscriber. I agree with W. C. Cantrell of Bryan, Texas, about the sexy covers. The April cover is # fantasy and sciencefiction books and backissue magazines at # to #  under what they've cost you before, here or anywhere, while they last! #K Shannon Road Verona, Pennsylvania an example of what I mean. I also disapprove of the story illustrated by the cover. Such wanton and in a representation of our future world. The other stories are on a much higher level. I especially enjoyed "Human Error" and "Chrome Pastures". -- J. Schofield Chesterhill, Ohio Sirs: Why so much speculation on what "other" worlds are like in science fiction magazines? Seems to me we should do a little more worrying about the mess we have right here and straighten out a few thousand things before we start spreading ourselves too thin over the galaxy. About the only advantage I can see to finding another world that's liveable is that it would enable some of us to get away from this badly mismanaged one. On second thought what's to prevent men from making that one just as bad. Seems to me Mankind is just dreaming about Utopias and is at least intelligent enough to realize he's messed up his own world so badly that Utopia is impossible here. But how many realize that just because the place is fresh and new and perfect it doesn't necessarily follow that it will stay that way once man gets his hands on it. -- C. H. Bellows Atlanta, Georgia Reader Bellows has grabbed a tiger by the tail. Hope hes got more than personal opinions to back up his stand. of the Three-Stage Satellite proposal as developed by Mr. Nuding and Mr. Vanous. Their proposal is much more comprehensive than the first few Project Vanguard Satellites which must be necessarily rushed to enter the International Geophysical Year. IF has commissioned the building of this large, detailed, cut-away model of the beautifully designed engineering proposal which, together with supplementary material, will be displayed at various places across the nation. (Drawings by Mel Hunter) Exciting New Worlds of Science Reading! to be found anywhere in the world is now appearing regularly in IF. Also, you will find exclusive, factual, authoritative articles on the sciences of today and tomorrow -- by eminent scientists. Here (this copy is a sample), in a beautifully printed and illustrated magazine, is the world of the future in both fact and fiction. But -- have you enjoyed this issue? Then why not subscribe. If you do, we will send your -- Your subscription brings you (bimonthly) I # issues for just #. But we will send the first issue as a gift, which means you get # issues in all... So, don't miss a single one of the important issues to come. Send your subscription to -- IF Magazine    the integrated Man of tomorrow Exciting New Worlds of Science Reading! to be found anywhere in the world is now appearing regularly in IF. Also, you will find exclusive, factual, authoritative articles on the sciences of today and tomorrow -- by eminent scientists. Here (this copy is a sample), in a beautifully printed and illustrated magazine, is the world of the future in both fact and fiction. But -- have you enjoyed this issue? Then why not subscribe. If you do, we will send your -- Your subscription brings you (bimonthly) I # issues for just #. But we will send the first issue as a gift, which means you get # issues in all... So, don't miss a single one of the important issues to come. Send your subscription to -- IF Magazine All Stories New and Complete 'Gifts for the Natives" by Mel Hunter i Copyn g ht, # by Quinn Publishing Co., Inc. Office of publication, # Lori Street, Buffalo, New York. Entered as Second Class Matter at Post Office Buffalo New York. Subscription # for # issues in U.S. and PonsTiada W for # issues; elsewhere #. Allow four weeks for change of address. All stories appearff "y Similarity to actual persons is coincidental. Not responsible for unsolicited artwork or manuscripts. #c a copy. Printed in U.S.A Next (December) issue on sale October #th gimwinniuinira  Editor's   report I # # Let's look ahead a hundred years or so when we have a space station a thousand miles up and exploratory travel to the nearer planets. The question in the mind of everyone who considers such a possibility is: What kind of life will we find out there? Conjectures as to the answer to that question are certainly many and varied and pro and con. But whatever the right answer eventually turns out to be, for the time being IF has just come up with another scoop! Not only for a science fiction publication but for any other publication as well. It isn't often that a magazine or newspaper can boast of an article by a scientist of the stature of Dr. Walther Riedel -- and that's just what IF can do. In the next issue Dr. Riedel, world's ranking aerophysicist and propulsion expert, presents his views on the possibilities of finding intelligent life on other planets. Dr. Riedel, as you doubtlessly already know, was director of Peenemuende and head of the German Government's entire rocket program during the latter part of World War II -- a time when they had out-distanced by far the entire world in rocket development. Coming to America after the war, he worked for Uncle Sam at the Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Fort Bliss and White Sands. Right now he is in Nuremburg, where he is carrying on his work in research and applied science. This is the first time Dr. Riedel has ever written for an American magazine and, to put it mildly, we think you'll be interested. Don't miss what he has to say in This Lonely Earth in the December IF! When tin editor suddenly starts getting deluged with manuscripts from an unknown writer and the manuscripts keep coming in, something in the mail every week, come rain, snow, or sleet or rejects, and finally he starts clicking -- well you begin to wonder about the tenacity or stubbornness or something of the writer. Such was the case with Charles L. Fontenay, a newspaper man down in Tennessee, who has appeared in IF with Disqualified , Escape Velocity Blow the Man Down y The Patriot , Atom Drive , Z, and Communication in this issue. He has another coming up in the December issue, a gem of a story about a "do gooder" whose intended victim is a man of a "super race". The title is Family Tree -- and it's good reading! Anyhow, when his story first appeared in IF and when we were getting curious about him, he dropped into the office to say 'hello" and that was about all, for he was gone again before I could even take him to lunch. Since then, however, we've gotten a line on him -- past, present, and prospective future. "Thinking back", he wrote us recently, "I suppose I'm one of the real veteran science fiction fans. In the late '#s, Boys Life ran a fourth dimension story and that got me into it... I started writing science fiction, for no good reason, in August, #, and sold my first to IF five months later." Fontenay turns out a prodigious amount of copy (which we suspected), considering that his fulltime job is that of rewrite man on The Nashville Tennessean, where he has been for nearly ten years. In addition to the scores of science fiction pieces he has written, he completed a biography of Estes Kefauver last year. Due to lack of time to whip it into final shape, he sold the manuscript to Jack Anderson and Fred Blumenthal of Washington, D. C., who are now editing it and rewriting it under their joint by-line. It is due for publication soon under the Dial imprint. But Fontenay is already at work on another novel, a historical one based on the life of Ptolemy I. One of Fontenay's outstanding assignments as a newspaper man was back in #, when he covered the campaign of Senator Kefauver in which the Crump machine was overthrown. He has also covered several governor's races, five legislative sessions and a constitutional convention, all for Tennessee newspapers and when he was with the Associated Press. The story he recalls most fondly, one that hit the nation's front pages, was the original story on the famous "yoo hoo" incident, just before the last war, when General Ben Lear made an entire regiment march from Memphis to Little Rock because they had shouted at a woman in shorts. Charles Fontenay was born in Sao Paulo, Brazil, but raised by his uncle in Union City, Tennessee. Because his father was English and his mother American, he encountered certain complications when he applied for a commission in the intelligence corps in World War II. However, he made it, and came out a captain after # months in the South Pacific. Right now, to fill in all the spare time he has between his rewrite job, science fiction and other writing, he is something of a correspondence chess player (# Class C North American Champion), does oil and water color painting (two first and two second prizes at Tennessee State Fairs), landscape gardening, with roses a specialty, and Chinese cooking! "A native of Canton," he informs us, "just returned to New York from Formosa, has been my ritual blood brother since boyhood and he helps me get materials for paper-wrapped chicken and other Chinese dishes." Asked if he was married, he replied that he was. "Thirteen years ago I married my girl from Nebraska", he said, and then added, "So far, the only patter of feet around the house is that of Maximilian von Fortlagehaus -- our red dachshund." (Continued on page #) Everyone was thoughtful, considerate, kind and very happy; But where was the right of dignity or individuality ? It was like being dropped into the middle of a nightmare. The kind that finds you running naked in a crowd . Illustrated by Ed Emsh take his cushion pills, that they were contacting the pits at La Guardia within half an hour. "I still can't figure you," the Captain said. "Up there, just you and your wife for sixteen years. That's a hell of a long time." Kane smiled. He had been almost completely out of touch with the world for sixteen years, and it surprised him a little that anyone thought it remarkable in any way. Particularly the Captain who spent most of his time, too, alone. But the Captain was genuinely perturbed about it. The authorities had abandoned the space-station project. Abandoned the Martian project. They had taken away the other three ships from the Moonrun, and there was no explanation for it at all. The rest of the Captain's crew, except an old atomics man, had drifted away and never come back, and the Captain had been unable to find out anything whatsoever about what had happened to them. He had never heard from them again. They had never been replaced. But the Captain couldn't seem to define what it was he was warning Kane to be wary of down there. "I haven't left my ship for years, Professor Kane, and that's the truth. I take on supplies and see to the ore getting into the holds but when those machines up there that do the digging and loading wear out, they won't be replaced. Just no interest in space any more. I can tell. "I stay on the ship, with my wife, see. And the few guys down there around the field at La Guardia I have to rub up against -- why, sir, they treat me as if I had some kind of contagious disease! "But they need this ore I'm bringing back here now, so they leave me alone."  "Who leaves you alone?" "Whoever didn't leave the rest of my crew alone. Whoever sang 'em the old siren song, that's who. Once a spaceman, always a spaceman, sir. And not a one of those men pulled out because he wanted to do it! That's what I'm saying. And I'm telling you to watch out. I'm blasting off for the Moon again on the #th. I hope you're aboard." Kane shrugged as the Captain bowed out, making disgruntled noises in his throat. He was getting along in years, Kane reasoned, and was probably just expressing that fact, externalizing some way or another. Still, what he had said was odd -- The truth was, Kane had been inexcusably out of contact with the world. The pills dulled his senses and he began to fall asleep on the pneumatic couch. He thought of the years of work on his theories concerning the unified fields in the formulation of spatial matter. He thought of Helen, the good years together before her sudden death, sharing love and work, how complete and full and good it had been. During all those sixteen years he couldn't recall a moment of real boredom. He hadn't missed life on Earth. When a man has one full love and his work, he's isolated no matter where he is, even in the middle of New York City. He had ten notebooks full of notes in his briefcase. It would open their eyes, a really basic new theory that would defy the pessimistic theory of entropy, and its assurance of an inevitable death of all things. Finding another wife to replace Helen wouldn't be easy of course. A new relationship would be different, but it should be as good. It might require some difficulties which he had anticipated and was prepared for. He was only forty-six. He had a long time to look. He was in excellent physical condition and was not unattractive, though of course that wasn't the real issue either way. He wanted love, a companion, someone who could truly share in his work. Who would love that observatory in Albetegnius crater as a home for the rest of her life. He woke up, and prepared to leave the ship. He carried his briefcase with his notes in it. The rest of his luggage would follow later. According to Phil Nordsen, there was a suite reserved for him at the Midtown Hotel at #th and Madison Avenue. He climbed down the ladder to the exit. The door was open and a heavy fog drifted past the opening, but a small dark car with two drivers waited outside. As Kane stepped down the gangplank, one of the figures, a woman in a light blue uniform, jumped out and opened the door for him. Interest and excitement rose in Kane as the car moved through the mist toward the terminal where he was to meet Phil. It would probably do him good, get away from his work, different surroundings, just rest up a little. Even live it up a little perhaps. There would be parties, and he wanted to see a little of the country. Maybe visit some of Helen's relatives in the Middle West, and he certainly wanted to have some long bull sessions with Professors Martinson and Legmann over at the University. Then there was the question of meeting the right kind of woman. That was something only the fates could decide, Kane thought. He was no romantic, but that sort of thing wasn't something you could figure out in advance, plot out like an equation. It wasn't anything you could handle with personality charts, though they had been trying that when he'd left The personality you could measure with gadgets was such a small part of it really... But Phil would arrange for the social activities. As he recalled his old schoolmate, he remembered that Phil was a very social kind of fellow. Phil had thought it was absurd, Kane's volunteering for that job in Albetagnius. Phil hadn't even gone on to post-graduate work in electronics, his chosen field. Phil had gone right out to accept a position with Isotopics Unlimited, somewhere in New Jersey. They had corresponded for a while; and the cablegram from Phil had expressed Phil's delight at Kane's decision to return to Earth. The car stopped before the welllighted entrance to terminal building No. # and the woman hopped out, opened the door for Kane. He went inside the building, feeling the abnormally heavy pull of gravity. He had grown accustomed to the gravity on the Moon, and though his body was already starting to adapt itself, it would take time, and he was beginning to feel the drag. Phil was there waiting. He hadn't mentioned anyone else being there, and Kane certainly didn't expect anyone else. He didn't know anyone really, no one other than Phil except Martin and Legmann. But there was Phil, and a number of people around him, and they were all rushing toward Kane, smiling, shouting, waving their arms. Phil looked much the same, tall and flashily dressed, thin and good looking as always, but with hair slightly greying. The others, men, women, various ages and sizes, waving scarfs and circling eagerly around Kane, broke out in a happy chorus of mixed voices: Greetings! Welcome , Old Friend Kane! Welcome home to Earth again . Kane felt a brief compulsion to retreat, but that was absurd. "Good to see you, Prof!" Phil shouted. "Hello, Phil." Someone grabbed his briefcase. Kane tried to get it back but it was gone among the "We'll take care of it, Kane boy," Phil said. His arm was over Kane's shoulders. Several women were hanging onto Kane's arms. Healthy, tanned, lovely women. "Sure glad to see you, Prof. Aren't we?" A chorus enthusiastically shrieked, "Yes!" Kane felt some embarrassment. He was being crowded out an exit toward a line of cabs. Several shiny ten-foot saucers with railings around them whirred past and disappeared in the fog. All of them had two or more people on them, and from the sound, there were quite a number of them up in the fog somewhere. "We've all got a saucer now," Phil said. "Only we have to take cabs over to Lucie's house. This way we can all ride together. We can all get into two cabs, can't we, gang?" "Yes!" "Lucie?" Kane asked as they crowded around the two cabs. Who were these people? Friends of Phil's of course. "We're Lucie," the woman said softly. Kane caught a glimpse of a mature face and a lovely figure. The face was odd, Kane thought, the maturity seeming to be disguised by an insincere smile. What a peculiar way of introducing oneself... S "We're having a little party at the house," Lucille said. "Aren't we?" "Yes!" "We've got lots of fun planned for us, Kane boy," Phil said. Kane remembered a look of sardonic mockery in Lucille's eyes as her face disappeared and was replaced by several others. Somehow, Kane couldn't figure out how, five of them were jammed into the back seat of one of the cabs and then they were moving away through the fog. Someone who said "We're Laura," with a tight tanned body was wriggling on Kane's lap and her arm was around Kane's neck. She had bright teeth and she breathed scentedly into Kane's face. "Nothing to worry about, Kane boy," he heard Phil say in a muffled joy. "We're the gang." " 'It's always fair weather, the Sunhill Gang is always together,' " Laura was crooning. The red-faced fat man next to Kane laughed and then Kane saw that the red-faced man whose name seemed to be Ben and the woman on his lap whom he called Jenny, were kissing one another. There was something embarrassingly intimate about the way they did it. It was suddenly much more than a mere spontaneous show of affection. Kane looked away. Beyond a certain point, he felt that love-making was something that should be reserved for privacy. That sort of thing might be expected to change, of course. Customs changed, and as Kane recalled, one could say the trend had been somewhat in that direction. There were two drivers up front. That was a change too. Every cab had had two drivers, a man and a woman. It was all a bit overdone, Kane thought. Still, they were friends of Phil's. A friend of yours is a friend of mine. But it affected Kane adversely. He felt uneasy. He didn't really know them at all. In fact, he scarcely even knew Phil. "We're so glad with you," the girl on Kane's lap said. She crushed her lips over his mouth and pressed her body against him. Kane couldn't say that was affecting him adversely. In fact, if there weren't all these other people around -- "We're nice together," Laura breathed against his lips. Everyone was so damn glad to see him. All they needed were banners, little pins. Official Welcoming Party to Greet the Arrival of Professor Larry Kane. Kane managed to look out the window as they crossed the TriBorough Bridge at #th Street and started up the East River Drive. "Things haven't changed much," Kane said. "Not nearly so much traffic though." "The saucers," Phil said. "Most of the traffic's up in the air." "We're looking at things," Laura said. "Great old town," Ben said and laughed, on and on. Jenny laughed too, then said. "It looks just the same almost as when we left." They're all speaking for me, Kane thought. Funny, a damned funny custom. It was a reflection of something else. What did it really mean? His feeling of unease seemed exaggerated. But then their efforts to make him welcome seemed pretty exaggerated too... "Everybody happy?" the fat man yelled. "Yes!" "We're happy aren't we, honey," Laura said. "Sure," Kane said. Why not? Kane noticed the amazing dearth of traffic on Madison Avenue. No traffic cops either. That had changed too. One thing you had always been sure of seeing and that was a cop in New York. When Kane asked about it, the smiles almost fled from every face, and the moment of silence seemed like a form of shock. Kane realized then that there hadn't been even a second of silence before then. "It's hard to realize we've been away so long," Phil finally said. "I'm really tired," Kane said to Phil as they went on past the Midtown Hotel toward Lucille's apartment. "I was intending to go directly to the hotel and rest up a while -- " "We'll relax at Lucie's" Jenny said. "We got music, we got music, we got music, who could ask for anything more?" "But -- " Kane started to protest at least mildly, but the rest of the sentence was blotted out by a long kiss from Laura. elevator, and then rushed into Lucille's apartment on a high level of The Sunny Hill building near Washington Square. The apartment consisted of one huge room with a circular couch in the middle upon which everyone immediately sat. Laura sat beside Kane who was getting more tired every minute. There was just enough room for the gang to squeeze up tight to one another in a circle around a table supporting some kind of machine with wires that were immediately run from it and attached to everyone's wrist, and to a narrow metal headband with which everyone's head was crowned. Kane was listening to music. It was like being dropped unexpectedly into the middle of a large symphony orchestra. The sound seemed to pulse and vibrate gigantically all around him. It was more than merely listening. He was in it. He felt himself a part of it, swimming in it, and almost fighting to keep from being carried away by what seemed to be perfectly recorded music that was now being delivered by some final form of hi-fi. The music itself was familiar enough. Instrumentalized opera arias orchestrated on a fantastic scale. The quantity was so great that sensitivity as to quality was dulled. Kane, shocked by thunderous sweeps of sheer volume gave way before the sound. It wasn't sleep. He could hardly say he rested, but he was in a semi-stupor. When he glanced at his watch sometime later, two hours and some minutes had passed. The wires were being removed from wrists, headbands from heads. Kane's head ached slightly. Everyone was reaching as cards fell out of the machine in the middle. Laura handed one to Kane. It was covered with symbols in the form of some kind of graph, but he couldn't decipher it. There was a great deal of chatter, musical jargon, colloquial in both space and time, most of it eluding comprehension. Kane stood there holding his card as everyone milled around one another. Phil said, "Let's see how we liked it, Prof?" That seemed to have been the general idea -- how much everyone liked the music. And each one looked at his card, and they were all comparing cards and exclaiming over them. Phil was looking at Kane's card, comparing it with his own and with some other cards. "Well, not bad," Phil was saying, "Is it, gang?" "Not bad at all!" they chorused. "What isn't bad?" Kane asked. "Our taste, man," Laura said. "You'll fit so good." The odd one, Lucille, raised an eyebrow, with some mockery in it still, at Kane. "You'll sure belong, Professor. Don't worry," Lucille said. She held up her card. "We liked it." "Of course it'll take a little time," Phil said as he threw his arm over Kane's shoulder. "A few sessions and you'll match up just right." "I really don't believe I understand," Kane said vaguely. "You will," Lucille said as she moved away from him. "You sure will, Professor." She was tall, and with long lithe legs. She was a handsome woman, Kane thought. As Phil explained casually on the way toward the Midtown Hotel, they had just had a music session. Everything was done in sessions, in groups that is. Everyone had his group, and his group did everything together. Anyway, they had had a music session. The machine in the middle was a Reacto. The cards were Reacto Cards. It was really a kind of taste tester, and the point was that the Reacto tested everyone's reaction to the music. The cards enabled everyone to check their reactions, check them against the reactions of all the others. It involved conformity ratings, and tendencies to stray from the group norm. The important thing about the taste rate cards was that they enabled you to find out just how much group spirit you had. The closer your card resembled that of all the others in your group, the more GS you had. "My GS rating's gone up," Laura kept burbling all the way to the Midtown Hotel. "It's gone up!" The same process applied to reading, movies, television, eating, anything involving the elements of reacting. The important thing was not how you yourself felt, but how you felt in relation to the feelings of the group. The problem seemed to be that of reducing deviation tendencies to a minimum. On the way to the Midtown Hotel, Jenny asked Phil how he liked the new best-seller, Love Is Forever , and Phil took a small card out of his wallet and they all compared Reacto Cards in order to determine relative reactions to Love Is Forever . Good God! You had to look at a card to find out how you liked something! It was frightening as hell. Kane wondered how wide-spread how universal, it really was, this incredible conformity, this collective thinking. This appalling sacrifice of individuality. Kane was too tired to give much, thought to it right then. He was anxious to get to the Hotel, and he was beginning to fantasize a bed, cool sheets, his body stretching and sinking down into blissful slumber. But as appalling as the situation seemed at the time, Kane soon found that he had only circled on the fringes of it. This was only the beginning. "Here we are, here were are, gang!" someone shouted as they piled out of the cabs and Kane was being hustled toward the suddenly formidable glint of a revolving door. So here we are, Kane thought. It was nice being here all right. He was glad, very glad. But it sounded as though someone might swoon over the fact. There was some difficulty with the revolving door. No one seemed able to move first, and there were spontaneous group lunges ending in jamming chaos in which someone hurt their arm. Kane thought it was the fat man, Ben. "We're hurt!" Jenny screamed. "Oh -- it's not bad," Ben said, laughing all the time he was groaning. "Just bruised a little, gang. We're just bruised a little' Kane grabbed his advantage and ventured alone through the revolving doors into the lobby. A pair of desk clerks nodded across the lobby. A group was emerging from behind drapes and beyond them Kane saw an ornate, subtly lighted, cocktail lounge. Kane was heading for the elevator when the gang overtook him. Laura had hold of one of his arms, and Phil the other. "We're having cocktails," Laura said. Phil repeated it, and Ben and Jenny joined in. The young man, Clarence, was singing as he herded the others toward the drapes of the cocktail lounge, and. they were all whisking Kane away before he could voice any protest. "What'll the gang have?" the waiter asked, smiling. Only he wasn't really smiling at any of them, Kane thought. He had picked out a center point of focus and was smiling at that so as not to appear to be smiling at any one, but at everyone. "Martinis!" several voices said. The waiter nodded, whirled away. "Ah, waiter," Kane said. "I'll have a double shot of Scotch. No ice." The waiter seemed shocked, unable to come to grips with Kane's seemingly simple order. "But -- but I thought you said Martini." The gang was still smiling, but faintly. The waiter was backing away, "No," Kane insisted. "He said Martinis, and she said Martinis, and so did several others. But I didn't say Martinis. I said Scotch, no ice." "But Martinis -- " Ben forced a pained laugh. "But we ordered Martinis." "Martinis," Laura said. "The ayes always have it," Kane heard Lucille whisper near him. Phil said, with a kind of shaky joviality. "Martinis -- " "Gin makes me ill," Kane said. "For me, it has to be Scotch." Phil whispered. "Scotch." "Scotch," the waiter said. A jukebox in a far corner blasted out from a sea of bubbling, multicolored light We're all pals togetherrrrrrrr . The Gang knows no bad weath errrrrrr. We're all for us all for us , And we're rolling do-own life's highway , On our crowded busssssss! Laura whispered huskily in his ear. "Don't worry about any little old thing. We're one together, man." G OD HE was tired. He was so tired he could hardly sit there. He felt numb, and there was desperation under the numbness. Kane wanted to get off somewhere by himself so he could rest, sleep, and think. He wanted to think... Bits of information drifted haphazardly into Kane's consciousness from the conversation. He had ordered another double Scotch and was almost through with it. He was passing out, but held to conscious awareness by the unceasing banter, laughter and the jukebox -- like a marionette held up with wires. If he suddenly found himself alone in silence, he knew he would collapse instantly. It seemed that this was a group with a certain common Reacto level, and they all worked in the same place, and lived in the same section of a big housing project, a place called Sunny Hill. Phil was their Integrator, and he was also an Official in the Isotopic Corporation where the Group worked. Phil was an Integrator for the Isotopic Corporation, a sort of personnel man whose main duty was the integration of the employees' private lives. When Kane tried to find out about the work itself, no one seemed interested enough to respond. The work was relatively unimportant. The emphasis seemed to be centered almost completely on how people got along together. If your Reacto cards reported a general reaction that strayed too far from your Group norm, you were either sent to another group, or sent to a Staff. A Staff was a rather vague term for specialists in Integration on a clinical level. The job was always referred to as "our job", and the Gang seemed to do practically everything together. Someone mentioned that a friend hadn't been competent in group relations at school and had been Processed. Kane didn't like the words they were so casually throwing around. In fact Kane didn't like any of it, and he was liking it less all the time. Another term that referred to some sort of adjustment process was the word homogenized. Someone had been "homogenized". Once Kane tried to find out about his old friends, Professors Legmann, and Martin over at New York University. Phil avoided the question for a time, then finally admitted that Martin was still there in the archeology department, but that Legmann had quit the profession years ago. "He quit teaching and became a plumber." "A plumber?" Kane whispered. "Legmann?" "That's right," Phil grinned. "We're all plumbing together," Laura lisped. "But -- that's preposterous!" Kane almost yelled. "Legmann -- why he was the finest research chemist -- " "But he wasn't really happy in his profession," Phil said. "As I recall -- he just wasn't well adjusted as a research chemist and teacher." "Who said he wasn't?" "Why the Staff." "What Staff -- ?" "Anyway, he's a plumber now somewhere," Phil said. "He's happy now." Kane felt a coldness on his neck. His stomach seemed to turn completely over. The devil with this, he thought. His eyeballs felt as though they were covered with sand, and his lids seemed leaded weights. He pushed back his chair. "You'll excuse me," he said. "But I'm really tired out. I'm going to get some rest -- " "But the night's young for us, man," Laura shrieked. "We're having more Scotch," Lucille said, watching him carefully. "Fun time's only starting for us," the young man protested, and the fat man and Jenny and all of them protested loudly together, laughing all the while. Kane was backing away. The hell with them. He turned and ran for the elevator. Then he remembered that he didn't know what room he was supposed to be checked into. He didn't have a key either. He -- Two smiling men, were on either side of him. In a mirror he could see the half smiling, half concerned faces of Phil and Laura, and the slightly sardonic eyes of Lucille. "Don't worry, Gang," he heard Phil say. "We're taking a Special room. We'll be together again soon." "This way," the two young smiling men said. They wore uniforms and appeared to be bellhops. "We'll show you to our room." The two bellhops started to back out of the room. "What's special about it," Kane asked. "Only thing I can see about it that could be considered special is that it's about big enough to be someone's closet! I reserved a suite. What kind of a run-around is this anyway?" It was hardly bigger than a large closet. A white room, with only a single bed in it, and a bureau. Through a narrow, partly open door, he could see a bathroom, and that was it. "Well," the bellhop said, smiling. "It's our Single." "You mean you call it special because it's a single," Kane asked. The bellhops nodded. "Why?" Kane insisted. "What's special about a single?" "We only have one single here," the bellhops said. "We hope you are comfortable with us, Professor Kane." "Look here! Why should you only have one single in this entire hotel? And what's so special about it?" "This single is seldom demanded by guests," the bellhop said. "I didn't demand it. I reserved a suite, or at least I understood that my friend, Phil Nordson, reserved a suite. I certainly didn't demand this!" "But -- but of course you did. We have to have a single when we're -- not getting along well with ourselves." Kane started for the door, but the two men backed out and shut it in his face. He tried the knob. The door was locked. He turned quickly and scanned the room, but there was no key visible. Then one of the curtains moved as he walked toward it, and he saw that the narrow window was barred. As he swept the curtains aside to look out through the bars, and grabbed at the bars in a kind of instinctual gesture, a metal panel slid noiselessly across and shut out a flash of neon light. He was alone, locked up like a dangerous madman! that resembled something anti' septic in a barracks, Kane saw the black eye of a phone peeking out of a niche in the wall. He pulled it out and jabbed at a button. His throat felt tight and he could feel the pounding of his heart as he leaned against the wall. "This is Professor Kane, room # ." "Yes, we're here." "And I'm here! In this ridiculous closet. I'm locked in. There must be some sort of mistake. The window -- " "We'll be all right. We'll be fine in a little while." "Look here -- connect me with the cocktail lounge. I want to speak with Phil Nordson. Yes, he's there -- " He heard nothing, absolutely nothing, except his own heart. No clock in the room either. The walls and ceiling had a peculiar grained look. "Hello, Prof!" "Phil! PhU, listen, what in the name of God goes on here? I'm locked in! You said you reserved a suite for me, and this room -- " "We aren't going to worry," Phil said. Kane heard laughter in the background and the high-pitched choral voices from the jukebox. "We'll be all right. We figured there would be a little trouble here and there, at first. "I don't give a damn about a little trouble there! Phil, I'm talking about me, here! I'm locked in. And my luggage. Where is it? And -- " Kane's stomach jumped. A kind of terror hit him like a cold breath. "Phil! My briefcase. Where's my briefcase?" "We have it somewhere -- " Phil was saying. "Just don't let us worry." Kane heard a clicking sound somewhere and he yelled into the phone but nothing came back. He released the phone and it was sucked back into the wall. He sank down on the bed and fumbled absently at his coat and then at his necktie. The walls had a blurred quality and he felt on the edge of passing out. He kept thinking of die briefcase, with years of work in it, the equations, more than could be preserved entirely in a man's head. It was too sickening to think about, the possibility of them losing his briefcase. Phil didn't seem concerned. No one was concerned with his briefcase, that was obvious. The only thing they were concerned about was that he didn't get along with the Gang. The hell with the Gang, every last one of the Gang. If he never heard of the Gang or saw the Gang again, he would consider himself extremely fortunate. He felt numb, too tired to think about anything. He fumbled at one shoe, got it off, then worked vaguely at the other one. He would rest, sleep, sleep for a long time, then he would be able to think. He might find this all exaggerated, unreal, once he slept, rested, woke up again. A man certainly had rights. There was some authority he could contact of course. He was just too upset to think about it anymore. He had his shirt, his undershirt off. He had his shoes and socks off and he flexed his feet in ecstasy. He unzipped his fly and as he started to stand up to take his pants off, he groaned with fright and fell backward onto the bed. A chair fused with the bed. Laura was there, sitting on the chair, but also practically sitting in Kane's lap. He blinked rapidly and reached out, and his hand moved through the image of Laura, only Laura seemed solid, three-dimensional, very real indeed. Too real. "Get out," he whispered. "What -- " Glass clinked loudly right in the room with him. The jukebox blared. Kane couldn't move. He sat rigidly, and the table was there, and all the Gang around it, and Phil there smiling and they were all around Kane drinking Scotch, double shots of Scotch, no ice. Lucille looked across the table and shook her lovely head slightly. There was concern, genuine concern, a kind of sadness, behind the false smile. The smile, he knew, was for the others. But the concern was for him. Phil raised his glass. Nine glasses were in the air. "Here's to us, happy Gang, Prof," Phil shouted. "Here's to us! Here's to Sunny Hill!" they shouted. Kane slowly moistened his lips. The three walls and the ceiling had come alive. They were actually huge TV screens, and the effect was startlingly three-dimensional. Only the absence of touch could break the illusion. But the visual and the audial made up for the absence of touch. Kane didn't want to touch them anyway. He wanted them to go away, altogether. His room was crammed with phantoms from the cocktail lounge. In fact, his room was fused with the cocktail lounge. It was all there somehow. "Go to sleepy-bye," Laura whispered and made a very suggestive gesture. Her cheeks were flushed as she leaned into and through him. "Take ourselves a good long snooze," Phil grinned. "Don't worry. The Gang's all here." Lucille said, hardly smiling at all. "No, don't worry, Professor. We'll all sleep with you." He zipped his pants back up and slid back through several phantom shapes and pressed against the wall. "Phil," he finally said. "Phil!" "Aren't you sleepy now?" Phil asked. "He's sleepy," Laura said. "We're sleeping with you, Professor man." "Yes, yes I am sleepy. Goodnight now," Kane said. "Goodnight." He waited. They didn't take the hint. To them it was no hint at all. He knew they weren't going away. He knew that no matter what he said or did, they wouldn't go away. That was the thing he understood, incredible as it was, he knew now that no matter what he said or did, they wouldn't go away. They only understood that he was somehow ill. He knew that too. They were right, so he was wrong. They thought they were doing what was best for him. That was obvious. It was all over their faces and actions. If they had any idea how he felt, they still considered his feelings only symptoms of some kind, and they seemed confident that Kane would soon be all right. But his being all right had nothing to do with their going away. Kane decided not to give way, not to scream or anything absurd like that. It wouldn't do any good. Calm, be calm and -- well maybe just try pretending they're not there at all. Then he remembered the bathroom and ran through several chairs, a table, and three people, and into the bathroom. He slammed the door and leaned against it and let out a long relieved breath. He was taking off his shorts when the bathroom walls and the ceiling came alive. What had been labeled "Boy's Room" down in the cocktail lounge was being projected into the bathroom of room #. It wasn't false modesty that prompted Kane's moan. It wasn't any form of prudishness that moved Kane to clutch his undershorts to his body and leap into the shower stall. It was a panicky realization of the absolutely involuntary nature of the way things were. Strangers, with friendly smiles, everywhere around him all the time, and he, Larry Kane, had nothing -- abso lutely nothing to say about it. The shower stall with the pulled curtain was no refuge either. There was a superimposed sink in there on the wall with a phantom shape using an electric razor, Phil and Ben were leaning through the shower curtain. They weren't there for anything specific. They were just there, chatting, smiling, bantering. Others came in and out of the "Boy's Room" of the cocktail lounge. Everyone said hello, or directed some sort of friendly comment casually at Kane as though superimposed washrooms were the quintessence of social normalcy. And, Kane thought pushing hard at panic, they probably were. Phil and Ben were there for no other reason than to keep Kane company. To help him. He could see that. No matter how tortured he seemed, their attitude remained that of beneficence. The trouble was all his, and they gave no indication of seeing his side of anything. Evidently, to them, being alone was the worst thing that could happen to anybody. If he wanted to be alone then he was wrong, he was sick, he was put in a special room. A single. But they wouldn't go away. He managed to turn on the shower, and he turned his face up to the icy water and closed his eyes and imagined he was back in blessed isolation in the study of the observatory on the Moon. But it was a long long way back to the Moon. It worked both ways. He could see and hear them. They could hear and see him too, but he determined to do his best to ignore them. The idea of social amenities no longer bothered Kane. Being impolite was an absurdity. Social decency was a mutual thing, and these people weren't considering his rights at all. He finished his shower and draped the towel around his waist and went back out into the closet they had given him. He walked toward the bed, sidestepping people, chairs, tables still unable to realize fully that these things weren't really here. The jukebox got louder. A couple danced through him. Suddenly, Kane stood shivering, a raw panic taking hold. Control fled before the rising jukebox clangor, the laughter, the waving and shouting and hideous unwelcome demons of camaraderie. He felt himself wildly waving his arms about and shouting at the walls. "Get out! For God's sake get out and let me sleep!" Ben was staring at Kane from only a few inches away. "You," Kane pointed a finger at the three dimensional ghost. "You -- fade out, go away somewhere. No -- no, Phil, not you. Get these other people out. I want to talk to you -- Phil -- " "Easy now," Phil said soothingly. "We'll be all right. In a little while now -- " "I am all right, but I won't be if I can't sleep. Phil -- can't all this just -- just be tuned out or something?" Kane tried to imagine none of the others were there. Just the small room, himself, and Phil. But the others were all looking at Kane, all of them looking, all of them smiling. Lucille was looking too, but somehow he was sure he could see a reflection of his own feelings in her eyes, hidden, but there. "We'll be with you all the way," Phil said. "But how can I sleep with a cocktail lounge full of people all over my bed? Tell me. I'm listening. Tell me how!" Phil's smile disappeared completely for a brief second. He whispered, close to Kane's ear. "Try to do it, Larry. Please -- try!" Kane ran to the wall, clicked the light switch. He knew that the lights in his room went out, but the slightly dimmer lights projected from the cocktail lounge remained. Somehow, that was even worse. It seemed to resemble the implacable characters of a persisting nightmare. Subdued, with the coruscating bubbling play of multicolored light from the jukebox turning a rainbow over and over the ceiling and the bed, and the Gang, the Gang all there like ghosts with greenish faces smiling, sitting, whispering round the bed. Kane threw himself on the bed and covered his eyes with his arms. He was going mad with fatigue, and yet he knew he could never sleep, never rest, under these circumstances. It wasn't just the figures there, the lights, the laughter and whispering and the chorus breaking from the jukebox. It was what their being there really meant, the suggestion of the bigger cause behind what was happening to Kane. A man who fears to sleep in the dark is not really afraid of the dark. But of what is hiding in it. Shadows moved above his closed lids. Glass tinkled with ice cubes. Under his sweating forearm, his eyes throbbed and his body felt as though the skin had been scraped all over until it was raw Kane propped himself on an elbow, and looked to one side at Phil. Phil grinned sympathetically. Laura was in the same cushioned chair, but she seemed to be sitting beside Kane on the bed. Lucille was avoiding looking at Kane. "Phil." "Well, Prof, we thought we were getting our sleep!" "No," Kane whispered. "I can't sleep. I'm asking you, you Phil, and all the rest of you, to let me sleep. I'm asking you to help me in that way, just for a while. I'm imploring you really to just tune yourselves out for a while and let me sleep." There was something blank, uncomprehending in the way they smiled at him. Kane knew then that they could never allow themselves to try to understand his situation, because then they might question their own. For example, if they've taken refuge in one another from a terrible fear of insecurity, anxiety, and aloneness, then Kane could only represent the threat of reawakened fear. What was the use? "We'll turn the lights down low, how would that be, Prof?" Phil asked. "We'd like that," Laura whispered. "Don't be afraid, we're with you," Ben said. "We'll sing you into dreamland," Jenny said. "Don't be afraid. We're all together and our Gang is with you," someone else said. It didn't matter who really, Kane thought, because they all spoke not as individuals but as the Gang. "Through sunshine and in shadow," Lucille said. The lights dimmed slowly as Kane curled up on the bed and clenched his eyes shut. He pulled the sheet up over his face. He pressed his fingers into his ears. But it wouldn't work. Nothing like that would do any good. You couldn't shut off indignity such as this. You couldn't block out such an intrusion of spirit and human dignity by burying your head, or pressing your ears. You could try, but not very long, not when you knew it wouldn't do any good. He had no idea now what time it was, how long he had been here. He had tried to spot a wall clock somewhere in the cocktail lounge, but none was within view. That didn't help either, this timeless feeling. That only enhanced the similarity it all had to a persisting nightmare. It was a gnawing murmur all around him. It was like a hollow tooth. The softened sounds of their voices going on and on was maddening because they were softened. Softened for him, yet they were still there. He felt like an irritated baby sleeping while adults talked, pretending to soften their voices. His body was slimy with sweat, and his head pounded with a dull ache. He jumped out of bed and ran straight through Laura to the wall and jerked the phone from its slot. He yelled into it. "This is Professor Larry Kane. Room #. I'm checking out. Send someone up here with a key! I said send someone up here..." "We understand, Professor Kane." "Then you'll send someone up immediately with a key!" "Please don't get upset. The Staff has been busy, but now the Staff will soon be with you." The Staff... "I just want a key, I want to get the hell out of here!" Kane yelled several times into the phone after the click, but no voice came back. He had grabbed up the table, the metal table at the head of the bed, and flung it into the wall before he realized what he was doing. The shadows moved toward him. Phil, Laura, Ben, Jetiny, Lawrence, Lucille, all the others, nameless, what did it matter anyway, their names? They were smiling, holding out their arms to him. Compassionate, sympathy, they had it all. All they wanted to do was help him. He ran through them back toward the bathroom. It was still full of men from the downstairs john. "What time is it?" Kane yelled at someone with a paper towel pressed to his eyes. "'Bout three I'd say, what a night!" "Three -- " Three o'clock in the morning, but the fact was Kane wasn't sure about the day. He backed out of the bathroom, slammed the door. "The Staff is ready, Prof," Phil said. "We're all with you, aren't we?" Laura giggled. The closet. Kane ran into the closet and slammed the door. There was something immediately cozy in the narrow black confines of the closet. Either closet walls weren't TV screens, or they had decided to let him sleep at last. Probably the former. Better convert closets to Television. In case kiddies misbehave and get locked in the closet, they'll not be alone in there... He curled up on the floor in the pitch blackness and almost immediately began to drift off into sleep. The narrow darkness tightened around him like a thick comforting blanket on a cold night... Sometime later -- he had no idea how much time had passed -- a light was blinking at his lids. He opened them slowly and stared into a flickering yellow eye. A doorhinge creaked. Up there somewhere a voice said pleasantly: "Professor Kane, your Staff is here." "Staff?" he whispered, trying to see above the blinking light. "We're here." T HE TV walls were dead now, but that was hardly consoling. The overhead light was glaring with an intense whiteness. The three members of the Staff were busy, and Kane was being Tested. Kane had emerged from the closet determined to remain as rational as possible, to control his emotions, and find out what he could about his human rights as an individual. That was easy to find out and only required a few questions honestly and frankly answered. As a minority, Kane had no rights whatsoever. He had one big right, the right to think as the majority did. But that didn't count for much yet because Kane was ill, maladjusted and had anti-group feeling. The Staff was going to test him, find out what was wrong with Kane. And this of course implied that when they found out what was wrong, the difficulty would be taken care of. The Staff was kind, considerate, almost excessively polite considering the circumstances. They were young efficient men with crewcuts, briefcases, and wearing tight conservative dark suits. Only slight differences in build distinguished them one from another, but this superficial outward difference only seemed to emphasize the Staffs basic unity, its Group Spirit, its Staff Consciousness. Every public institution, every business establishment, every school, club, hotel, factory, office building -- in short, everywhere that people congregated in official Groups, there was a regular Staff on duty twenty-four hours a day. They were Integrators. Glorified personnel men. Electrodes were clamped on Kane's head and wrists. Something was strapped around his chest. Wires ran into a miniature Reacto. A stylus began to make jagged lines on a strip of moving tape. "We're getting a complete personality checkup," the Staff said. It was indeed complete. It was as complete as a personality checkup could be short of an actual dissection. Kane looked at countless inkblots. He was shown a great many pictures and whether he answered verbally or not was of no concern of the Staff. Whatever his reactions were, they were all analyzed by the machines. Words weren't necessary. The Staff had a shortcut to personality checkups. From the mind right into the machine. The Staff only interpreted the results, or maybe they didn't even do that. It was more likely that machines did that too. Kane protested for a while, but he was too tired to protest very long. He asked them a great many questions, and they answered them They were interested in his questions too. He was an interesting symptom, but actually he knew that they already had him pretty well tabbed. They answered his questions the way big-hearted adults answered inquisitive children. "We must," the Staff said, "determine why you don't fit in." Kane talked about his work, his theories, his years of devotion to what he had always considered to be a contribution to society. They hardly seemed interested. What good was all that -- astronomy and such -- when a man was not happy with others? "What about this aversion to people?" the Staff said, in a kindly way. "This -- well -- clinically, this de-grouping syndrome. This antagonism to the group spirit." "You mean my reaction to Phil and his friends?" "Your friends. Your Group," The Staff said. "But I don't dislike those people," Kane insisted. "Certainly, I have no aversion to them! Hell, I don't even know them." "But they're people," the Staff said. "Part of the family of man." "I know that. But I was tired and wanted to sleep!" "You'll find the true group Spirit," the Staff said. "Let us ask you this, Professor Kane. If you really had no aversion to people generally, why would you object to them being with you? Why should the presence of people disturb your sleep? Wouldn't a Healthy person enjoy sleeping with others merely because they were there? Doesn't one sleep best among friends, knowing he isn't alone, knowing even his sleep is shared -- " There was a great deal more, but it all boiled down to the same thing. Kane was wrong. And he didn't have the right to be wrong. They, or rather it, the Staff, seemed to concentrate on the whole question of why Kane had ever volunteered for a job demanding extreme isolation in the first place. The point was that apparently Kane had been anti-social, a Group Spirit deviant from the beginning. Kane tried to explain it, calmly at first, then more emotionally. Either way, he knew that whatever he said was only additional grist to their syndrome recording mill. Being alone in order to do certain kinds of work demanding isolation seemed to be beside the point. The point was that being on the Moon deprived a man of Groups. It was a kind of psychological suicide. Now that he was back home they would straighten him out. The question of returning to the Moon was ignored. To them, this was an absurdity. What did Kane want? Kane was in no position to know what he really wanted -- yet. They were going to help him decide what he really wanted. But they already knew that. It only remained for Kane to agree with them. The majority was always right. He explained his values to them. They listened. He told them that as far as he was concerned the social setup was now deadly, a kind of self-garrisoned mental concentration camp in which free thought was impossible. A stagnate, in fact a regressive state of affairs. Proficiency in skills would go, science would die. A herd state. Individuality lost. Depersonalized. Tyranny of the Majority. Integration mania. Collective thinking. Mass media. But Kane wasn't happy, that was the important thing wasn't it? Could a knowledge of how rapidly the Universe was expanding contribute to the happiness of a human being living on Madison Avenue in Manhattan? Obviously the answer to that was no. Kane was going to be happy. He wouldn't concern himself with the stars any more. He wouldn't practice a self-imposed barren isolation of himself any more. Kane was going to be happy. He was going to be one of the Group. Time went by. He was given sedatives. He slept at last. He awoke and was tested and went to sleep again, many times. He was fed too, given injections with needles of energy and vitamins and proteins and glucose and carbohydrates, because he refused to eat any other way. Vaguely he remembered episodes of babbling under the influence of hypnotic drugs. He kept remembering the briefcase. In a dream the Group had it, throwing it around among them like a basketball. The clasp broke. The papers, thousands of papers spilled out and drifted away over New York and Kane was running through a maze looking up at them and then he was lost. Now he knew what had happened to the other Moon ships, and to the rest of the Captain's crew, where they had gone to and never come back from. Space was lonely and dark. Space was empty. Space was frightening. They had gone back to the closeness and warmth and security of their Group. How many were there left such as the Captain, and Kane -- Kane for a while yet perhaps? How many were there? Could he escape? At some unrelated point on the Testing chart, the Staff closed up their briefcases, politely said goodbye, and left. The data would be run through more machines. Kane would be happy. All he had to do was wait. start and stared at the prison of his room. The walls began coming alive. Phil, Laura, Lucille, Herby, Clarence, Jenny, Ben, the happy happy Group, always there, always waiting, always reliable, sharing everything, pleasure and pain. "How we feeling now, Prof," Phil yelled. He was stark naked. "You look so cuddly," Laura giggled, and for an instant there, Kane could almost feel her snuggling in beside him. Kane lay there in a dim superimposed puzzle of furniture, moving forms, comers of rooms jutting out of the wrong walls, bodies walking through beds and one another, and then a naked figure curving into the air, falling toward him in a graceful arc, down, getting larger and larger, plunging right for Kane's face. Kane rolled frantically. And then somewhere under him he heard a splash and there was the vague ripple of unreal water as Phil swam away across his cool blue pool. There -- that was Laura, only in a boudoir, standing before a mirror wearing only a pair of very brief panties, and nothing else. Her reflection in the mirror smiled at Kane as she brushed her hair. "Morning, Prof honey. How we feeling this morning?" It was morning. Some morning on some day during some year. There was Lucille on this morning lying in a sunchair, her black hair shining in the sunlight somewhere. Probably in the Group house at Sunny Hill. In a while now, Kane knew, the Group would all go away together to their office, and they would do their work, concentrating on getting along together until they could return to Sunny Hill together. Lucille was reading a newspaper, and she glanced up at Kane. There was a pale line around her mouth and she pulled her eyes quickly away as though she didn't want to look at him. She wasn't like the others. She was different. Of course. It had to be a matter of degree. Nothing was black and white. There had to be differences of opinion, some degree of individuality -- somehow. Somewhere. Perhaps Lucille -- "Good morning, good morning to all of us!" Kane shouted suddenly. "Did we have a good rest, Prof?" Phil was yelling from his pool. He seemed greatly pleased with Kane's enthusiastic social response. Not that Kane was really trying to fool anybody. He was pretty sure the Staff wouldn't be fooled. Somewhere the machines were scanning the data. Soon, the Staff would have a full analysis of Kane, what was wrong, and what would make it right. What he should have done, and what he should be. Jenny and Ben were making love on a couch. Kane tried to keep on watching them as though he suffered no embarrassment, but it was impossible. "I've a full schedule planned for today," Phil yelled up. "Soon we'll all be going to the Office. You'll be going with us soon too, Prof!" He would belong to the happy Group. Sharing everything. But maybe it wouldn't be this happy Group. Maybe the machines would decide that he belonged in some other Group. Whatever Group it was it would be happy. That was a fact. Could he escape ? Could he, perhaps, get back to the La Guardia Pits, and the Captain of the Moonship? The windows still barred, paneled in metal. The door locked. If he managed to get out of this Single, say, and out of the Midtown Hotel, and into the street, then what? That didn't matter. If he could only get that far -- Laura was standing there naked, close to Kane. "We're having our wedding at five," she whispered. "Who?" Kane said, startled. "Ben and Jenny. They're right for all of us together." From a number of rooms, people were watching Ben and Jenny being right for all of us together, but Kane couldn't look. "See us all," Laura shouted and dived through the floor. A spray of water spilled up and fell unfelt through Kane's flinching torso. Ben and Jenny ran away. Kane was practically alone with Lucille. It was the first time in he had no idea now how long that he had been this much alone with any one other person. She glanced rather sadly at Kane above the paper she was reading. "You know how I feel, Lucie?" She nodded, almost imperceptibly. "How can you stand it, all the time this way?" he asked. "Some of us learn to be in it, with a part of us out of it. A kind of selfhypnosis, a retreat of some kind. Into fantasy, that's what it really is. But -- but I don't think any of us can keep on doing it forever. We will all give way completely -- sooner or later." "I've got to get out," Kane said. "Do you want to get out?" "It's impossible to get out." "I've got to try." "What's the use of trying if you know you can't get away? Where can anyone go?" "There must be people who break away," Kane said. "There have to be." "There's supposed to be an underground, some secret group of some kind that helps people get out." "Get out -- where? Out of the country?" "It's pretty much like this everywhere. But there are supposed to be areas where it isn't. Islands somewhere. Hidden places right here in the country. Supposed to be places in the Kentucky Mountains, and in New Mexico, places like that." "The Moon," Kane said. "That's a place I know of. I've been there." Her eyes were bright for a moment. "I know. It must have been wonderful. Why on Earth did you ever leave?" "I didn't know what it was like here. And -- my wife died. I wanted and needed another wife. More than a wife really. Someone who could share that kind of a life with me, someone who would be interested in the work too." She turned quickly back to the paper. "You might be able to get out of the hotel," she said. "But you would be too conspicuous." "Because I would be traveling alone?" "Yes." "If you came with me, there would be two of us. We wouldn't be conspicuous that way." He saw the flush move up through her face. "Is that the only reason?" "You know it isn't." She knew it. They both knew it and had probably known it for a long time. They had a lot in common, a minority of two. And then he remembered. She wasn't really there in the Mid town with him. She was in Sunny Hill, wherever that was. They couldn't leave inconspicuously together because they weren't together now, and they couldn't get together without the Gang being together too. The rooms, furniture, sounds, everything began to fade. "Goodbye," Lucille said. "Get sick or something," Kane said quickly. "Don't go with the Group to work. Stay there, wherever you are! Stay there -- " Faintly, her voice came to him out of a kind of melting mask of a face. "I'll try -- " Kane was alone in the single room the door opened. The smiling Staff came in and shut the door. The three of them stood there happily holding their briefcases. "We're happy to report that we have completed your personality breakdown." The word was a bit premature, Kane thought. "What is it?" he asked. "Excellent," the Staff beamed. "You should never have been an astronomer. You took up that profession as a way of escaping from people. Actually, of course, you love people and hate your profession. "Have you determined what I should be if not an astronomer?" "Naturally, it's all in the breakdown." "What is it?" "Generally, you prefer physical work, not mental work. Mental work is a constant strain on your psychological balance. You have done it neurotically to reinforce your need to avoid people." "Physical work? What kind?" "Specifically, it seems that you are best suited for the profession of plumbing." "Plumbing?" Kane said. 'Tlumbing what?" "Plumbing, the art of pipe-fitting, the study of water mains, sewage lines, and so forth." "Plumbing." Kane said. "Of course, you react antagonistically to it now. But that will be changed." Kane had nothing against plumbers or plumbing. Once, as a kid, he remembered having a long interesting talk with a plumber who was unstopping the kitchen sink. He had fascinating tools, and at that time, Kane had said he would be a plumber when he grew up. But he had also wanted to be any number of other things when he grew up, including an astronomer. Now he had no desire whatsoever to be a plumber. Kane drew the metal bedside table up hard and the edge of it caught number one of the Staff under the chin. Kane attacked, violently. He did it knowing that something more was at stake than his life -- his identity. Number one fell down on his knees and whimpered. He wasn't hit hard. But he squatted there blubbering as though he had suffered some horrible shock. Numbers two and three gaped as though equally shocked without ever having been hit at all. That was Kane's initial advantage. The Staff seemed incapable of understanding that anyone would do what Kane was doing. Kane hit number two four times before number two covered up his face with his hands and started to cry. Kane ran him into the closet and locked the door. Number three swung his briefcase at Kane's head, fluttering his other hand wildly. Kane was heavier than he should have been because he was accustomed to the Moon. But he was desperate and that was some compensation. He had some experience, a very little, as a boxer in college, but that had been years ago. But as little experience as he had at this sort of thing, he was way ahead of number three. Number three kept swinging his briefcase, and Kane hit him on the chin and then in the stomach and then on the back of the neck. Number three lay unconscious on the floor. Kane stared at his bleeding knuckles a moment, then dragged Number one up onto his feet. "You're going to help me," Kane said. "We're getting a saucer and then we're going to Sunny Hill. You know where Sunny Hill is?" Number one ran his hand nervously through his dark brushcut He had a boyish face that seemed deeply insulted by what Kane had done. Insulted and shocked as though he had been a good boy all his life and then someone had slapped his hand -- for no reason at all. Kane doubled his fists. Number one winced and looked shocked again, and very frightened. A great deal more frightened than anyone would be who was afraid only of physical injury. "Yes, that's part of a big Group Housing Project downtown." "Where can we get a saucer?" "The roof." "Unlock the door," Kane said. "And just pretend everything is happy and that we're relating beautifully to one another. Now listen -- I'll kill you if you try anything else. I hope you believe it because I really will. What you fellows intend doing with me, as far as I'm concerned, is worse than murder." They stepped onto one of several saucers decorating the roof of the Midtown Hotel. The rotary blades in the ten foot platform whirred under them, and Kane felt the saucer rise up to a thousand feet, then dip downtown. The air was full of them and only some kind of sixth-sense seemed to keep them from jamming into one another. There was never less than two on a saucer. And Kane noticed that most of the saucers were flying in Groups like aimless geese. Kane jumped from the saucer and ran across the roof landing of the Sunny Hill project building. There were a number of them like huge blocks arranged in some incomprehensible plan. Kane glanced back to see number one leaping from the saucer and running in the opposite direction. Kane ran on toward the elevator. He knew he didn't have much time, but what bothered him was the authority he was running against. Public opinion was a general attitude, not a cop car, or a squad of officers with guns. Getting out of line, Kane figured, was usually its own punishment -- isolation, loneliness, social ostracism. But what about the exception? The guy who fought conformity and the majority opinion. Who would they put on Kane? Or what? It would help to know what he was running from. What concrete force or power would try to stop him. Then he saw her running toward him. Her face was flushed and the wind blew her dress tightly against her slim body as she stopped and looked at him. He took hold of her arm. "We've got to hurry," she said. "The Group knows I've run away. (Continued on page #) Illustrated by Ed Emsh What had caused the people of the crystal city to perish ? And why had their remains disappeared so completely that not even their bones were left? sphere of crystalline cause and effect. It was the sound of glass chimes in a summer wind captured and set to architecture. It was the only child of a lonely star, and it was moonless. It was also dead. Donant didn't know how long he'd been walking. An hour, perhaps. Maybe longer. There was a timelessness about the eternal streets and the endless edifices, and he'd left his watch in the ship, remembering only his compass. But the compass was by far the more important item: with its needle never deviating from the magnetic lode in the ship's heart, he could never get lost -- not even in a city that covered an entire planet. Not even in a dead city. Donant was a cartographer and much of his life had been spent in the unexplored sectors of the galaxy where civilizations were rare and cities even rarer. Nevertheless he was used to cities. He knew the Cities of the Plane intimately -- the metropolises of Mars and Venus and the collective edifices of Earth. But he was used to cities with limited boundaries, not cities that covered whole land masses and linked crystalline arms across seas. Moreover he was used to cities with people in them. He came presently to a structure more striking than the others. Like them it was constructed of a crystallike material and seemed to have been cast from a single gigantic mold ; but there was a quality about it that set it aside. Gazing up at the prismatic facade, Donant got the impression that the long dead architect had used an emotional rather than an architectural blueprint. The facade transformed the shifting rainbows. Poignant lines blended together to form a frozen waterfall of windows and balconies, cornices and ledges. The effect was dazzling. It was also tinselly. Donant wondered why. Just before him was the entrance, a huge triangle cut into the base of the waterfall. There were no doors. Donant hesitated a moment, then climbed the crystalline stairs and entered the building. The huge chamber into which he stepped should have awed him, but it didn't. The light of day seeping colorfully through the prismatic walls was abetted by a cluster of blazing lights suspended from the dome. In the center of the floor a lofty statue stood upon a square pedestal, and around the pedestal were circular rows of chairs. Beyond the chairs, balconies rose, tier on tier, to the point where the walls ended and the dome began. Everything -- chairs, statue, walls, dome -- was constructed of the same crystalline substance, everything was immaculate -- and everything was dead. A council room, Donant thought. Perhaps the council room. He chose an aisle and walked down it to the pedestal. The chairs substantiated the evidence of the doors and windows of the other buildings he had passed: the race that had built the city had been humanoid and of approximately the same stature as Earthmen. The pedestal turned out to be a speaker's platform as well as the base for the statue; steps were cut into it for the convenience of the speaker. Donant did not climb the steps. There was nothing he had to say, and even if there had been, there was no one to whom he could have said it. Instead he stood at the end of the aisle, gazing up at the statue. The statue represented a woman, a beautiful woman. Alien though her beauty was, Donant was impressed by it. Her body was thin, but unmistakably mammalian. Her features were small, almost tiny, yet exquisite in their flawless perfection. She was wearing a simple white tunic and the exposed areas of her flesh were tinted -- no, permeated -- with the pink-gold flush of living human tissue. For a moment Donant almost forgot he was looking at a statue. Her pose intrigued him. Her right arm hung gracefully at her side, but her left arm was raised, and suspended from her fragile fingers at a level with her eyes was a horizontal bar. Suspended from the bar, in turn, were two shallow cups, one at each end. The bar was slightly canted, and one of the cups was lower than the other. Scales, Donant thought. Primitive scales. He craned his neck to see their contents, but he was too close to the pedestal. He walked back up the aisle to the entrance, turned and tried again. The angle was still wrong: all he could see was a sparkle in one scale and a flash of green in the other. He found stairs that led to the balconies, climbed them. He went as high as he could, to the beginning of the dome itself. Then he looked at the scales again. This time their contents were clearly visible. In one of them, the lower, heavier one, was a dazzling crystalline cube. In the other, the one found wanting in the balance, was a green knife. Curiosity had motivated Donant's landing. Extinct planetary cultures were none of his business. None of his official business, anyway. But he liked cultural problems, and he particularly liked this one. A dead city, a crystalline cube, and a green knife... In the street again, walking, he attacked the problem. The planet was dead; therefore the inhabitants had either left it or perished on it. If the first alternative were the case, then they must have had space travel. Donant shook his head. A race of people, in order to develop space travel, must have stepping stones. Its imagination has to mature gradually. Without the moon as the first stepping stone man might not have been able to reach Venus and Mars. Without Venus and Mars it was extremely doubtful if he could have reached Mercury and Pluto; and without the confidence that those first stepping stones gave him, the prospect of traveling over four light years to Alpha Centauri would have overawed him, crippled his as yet immature imagination, and he would have gone on living on Earth, crowding himself into ever expanding cities, turning the energy that would have gone into the building of better and better spacecraft into the building of better and better buildings, into the creation of better and better building materials, till at last he found the ultimate material and with it, possibly, his justification for existence. This planet had no moon. It was the only offspring of its sun, and the nearest star was forty-one light years away. No, Donant concluded, its inhabitants definitely had not had space travel. That left alternative number two: the inhabitants had perished, every single one of them, and so completely that not even their bones remained. Why? Donant stared at the shining streets and the immaculate buildings. The gentle throb of entombed machines coursed rhythmically through the crystalline bricks beneath his feet. But the streets were as devoid of life as they were of dust, and the doors of the buildings were closed, the windows faceless. Plague? W eltschmerz? Moral decay? Donant shook his head again. His directionless walk had brought him to a different sector of the city. The buildings here were slightly more functional in appearance, but they were facsimiles of each other and they stood shoulder to shoulder like rows of pretty girls, each with the same make-up, the same girth of bust and buttock, and the same stereotyped smile. At the base of each, on a level with the street, was a little sunken doorway fringed with crystalline lattice. Apartment houses, Donant thought. Or at least their equivalent. Coincidentally with the thought came another thought: when a problem as a whole proves insoluble, concentrate on a single aspect of the problem. In this case, a single building. He chose the building at random and stepped into its sunken entrance, intending to try the door. But before his fingers even touched the featureless surface, the door swung inward and concealed lights flicked on to reveal an empty foyer. Donant stepped across the threshold and the door closed behind him. The furniture was simple and -- inevitably -- of the same material as everything else in the city, on the whole planet for that matter. Against one wall a blue table stood on legs as slender as flower stems. There were blue chairs to match, and a small blue cloud of a couch. On the wall opposite the door was a vertical bank of buttons. Donant stepped forward and depressed the lowest one. The wall behaved as he had thought it would: it split vertically, and the two halves receded. But instead of the elevator he had expected, he saw a long corridor lined at regular intervals with doors. He frowned. He was a logical man and he liked logical phenomena. So far nothing on the planet had made sense, and he knew he would never be able to leave till he forced it to make sense. As he stood there the two halves of the wall came back together in a seamless junction. Annoyed, Donant depressed the second lowest button. This time there was a pause before the wall enacted its alternative role as a door -- a pause and a sense of increased weight. Donant smiled then. It was he who had been illogical, not the builders. What he had mistaken for a mere foyer was really a foyer-elevator. The second floor corridor was identical in all outward respects to the first. But Donant was a systematic as well as a logical man, and a systematic investigation of the building virtually demanded that he begin on the ground floor. When the door became a wall again he depressed the lowest button and a moment later stepped out into the first floor corridor. He stood immobile for a moment, listening. There was no sound except the almost inaudible purring of invisible machinery. Behind him the foyer-elevator door once more blended into a wall. He started walking down the corridor. Light emanated softly from an indeterminate source, seemed to be a part of the crystalline walls themselves. He paused before the first door. It was featureless, just as the street door had been, hardly distinguishable from the wall itself. He stood before it confidently, waiting for it to open. He stood there for some time but nothing happened. Naturally not, Donant thought, irked with himself. The street door was indiscriminate, admitted anyone. This door was probably attuned to the ex-tenant's personality or emotional pattern. This door didn't know him from Adam. Donant drew his incandescer, dialed it to maximum intensity and began to bum out a section large enough to permit his passage. The crystalline material had an incredibly high melting point, but it cowered before the blue-white wrath of the incandescer beam. Blue smoke coiled up, and automatic suction fans hummed into action and whisked it away. When the section of the door broke free and fell to the floor, the corridor walls saturated it with an acridsmelling fluid. Donant edged through the opening into the room beyond. It was a large room, well ventilated and well furnished. Opposite the door a big oval window looked out into a courtyard. All of the chairs in the room were arranged so that they faced the window, but the chairs were empty, the room was empty, and the courtyard was empty. He approached the window more closely and peered out. The courtyard was a small one, surrounded by high featureless walls. Donant started. The walls, unlike every thing else he had seen in the city, were not made of the crystalline substance. They were made of metal, a dull, gray, familiar metal. They were made of lead. Presently Donant lowered his eyes. The grass of the courtyard was a sickly green. There was a flower garden to the left, and the alien flowers drooped tiredly in the bright sunlight. Directly opposite the window there was a tree. Donant found himself staring at the tree. It was an alien tree, botanically remote from the elms and maples he had known on Eartl but it wasn't the alien quality that gave him pause, that filled him with foreboding. It was something else. The tree was dead. The other two rooms of the apartment were small and windowless. They contained padded oval platforms and were obviously sleeping quarters. There wasn't a particle of dust in them -- or a particle of life. Donant returned to the corridor. He experienced a sense of wrongness. After a moment he noticed that the section of the door he had burned out had disappeared, and then he noticed that the burned edges of the door itself, into which the section had fitted, had receded back to where the crystalline material was unaffected. As he watched, the material closed back in upon itself as though the orifice were a wound and the wound were healing. In a little while the door was whole again and all evidence of his vandalism had vanished. A self-healing building? A selfhealing city? Then it must be a sentient city too. The crystalline material, despite its deceptive appearance, bore no relationship to crystal. It was a complex alloy that the extinct race had developed, an alloy that possessed therapeutic qualities and an awareness of decomposition. And its awareness was not confined to its own decomposition. It included and acted upon everything detrimental to the cleanliness of the streets and structures which the metal comprised. For the first time Donant understood why there was no dust or corrosion in a city that had probably been dead for years, if not centuries. And he guessed why there were no bodies, no bones. A most meticulous metal. Not only did it clean up after itself, it cleaned up after its creators as well. Donant burned a section out of the next door and stepped into the next apartment. It was a duplicate of the first -- three rooms, the furniture in the largest room grouped with the oval window as the central motif, and the window framing a view of walls, grass, flowers, and tree -- Donant found himself staring at the tree again. It was unquestionably the same tree, its twisted trunk and leafless branches the same bone white in the glaring sunlight. And yet it stood just outside the window, exactly in front of the window, and that was manifestly impossible because it stood exactly in front of the window of the room he had just left. After a moment he dropped his eyes to the lawn. It was a wretched lawn by any standards. In some places it had faded to a bleached yellow, in others it had died out altogether. Even in the few places where it still contained a semblance of life, it was singularly unimpressive. The individual blades of grass were asymmetrical, thick on one side, dwindling to a sharp edge on the other, tapering upward to a lopsided point -- Suddenly Donant found himself thinking of the statue he had seen in the council chamber -- the statue and the scales, and the objects the scales contained. A crystalline cube and a green knife -- Or a building brick and a blade of grass? Abruptly another incongruity about the courtyard caught his eye. When he had entered the apartment building the sun had long since passed its meridian. That being so, part of the courtyard should have been in shadow, but the only shadows on the dying lawn were the shadows cast by the branches of the dead tree, and they lay directly beneath the branches themselves... Donant left the room, walked down the corridor, took the foyerelevator to the sixth floor and burned down the first door he came to. There was another living room and another oval window, and beyond the window, on the same level as the floor, were the tree, the lawn, and the flowers. Donant was not surprised. He walked over to the window and put his foot through it. The huge tube popped and showered in white dust to the floor, and the crystal-like alloy devoured the dust the way it devoured all dust, all dirt, all flesh that had ceased to live. The tree and the lawn and the flowers became a medley of wires and tubes and resistors, and Donant knew why the city was dead. ten thousand feet and threw it into glide. He turned up the scanner to a radius of five thousand miles and attuned it to the characteristics of the place he wanted to find. Buildings and streets and streets and buildings flowed forever beneath him ; oceans and causeways, and automatic factories that once had processed the food that had been drained from the seas. He flew west, keeping pace with the sun, and the fading afternoon traveled with him. Two subjective hours passed before the scanner gave the sharp buzz he was waiting for. Darkness began to creep in from the twilight belt as he arrowed the ship down to the dot of greenness shining like a verdant star in the scintillating wastes of the city. The ship was small, and he brought it down on the moribund lawn. He got out and walked over to the dead tree. The tree was a pitiful thing in the lengthening shadows -- a desiccated corpse, an unburied cadaver. Donant stood beneath it, thinking of the race that had killed it -- and thereby killed themselves. They had had to make a decision, and the statue in the council chamber symbolized that decision. The had weighed nature against cities and they had found nature wanting in the balance; and their decision had been irrevocable because if the ultimate building material they had created destroyed all dirt, all decayed matter -- it destroyed topsoil too . Why, then, hadn't they chosen a different metal? Donant thought he knew the answer. Aside from the fact that the new alloy had promised them an architectural utopia, there had been another consideration: over-population. No matter what building material they had chosen, the end result would have been the same: a planetary city. The only alternative would have been birth control, and birth control, Donant knew, was contrary to the survival urge of any race of people. The dead race had overlooked the essential truth that, while machines could take over the function of physical photosynthesis, they could not take over the function of spiritual photosynthesis; that a man cannot live solely for the sake of his own creations, and that he had to have other creations to inspire him, to reanimate his will to go on living; natural creations above and beyond his ability to duplicate. The beauty of the council building -- and the beauty of the city as a whole -- was tinselly because it was the product of creators without a criterion, creators who were creatively impotent. And, Donant knew, it was only a short step from creative impotence to sexual impotence. Sunoikismos, he thought. Carried to extremes, it resulted in tragedy which the ancient Greeks had never dreamed of. For if it was true that man could not live entirely alone, neither could he live entirely with his fellow men. He could usurp his green lands with his cities, and he could find sustenance for his belly in his seas. He could create a complex society and learn to live in harmony with his neighbors. And as long as he did not completely lose contact with the death-to-life cycle of the earth he could find the strength and the inspiration to go on living, reproducing, laughing, loving, creating. But when he covered up and killed the last but one area of green land and in desperation televised that area to his tens of billions of sterile cubicles, he was very close to death. Donant touched the trunk of the tree. His fingers sank deep into the dead tissue. The grass around his feet was gray and lifeless in the shadows. He walked slowly towards the ship. A three dimension televisor camera stood on spidery legs on the fringe of the lawn. Its glass eye stared at him solemnly as he passed, its lens glinting forlornly in the last rays of the lonely sun. Beyond the high lead walls, that had failed to perform their function, the crystalline edifices stood, tall and mute and empty. Donant lifted the ship. The dot of dying grass and dead tree faded into the building shadows. The buildings coalesced, became a meaningless mass. When he left the atmosphere Donant set his coordinates so that the ship would emerge amid green worlds. Then he hit the transphotic -- Hard.    Earth by Dr. Walther Riedel in the Dec. IF. Dearest Enemy Well trained actors are taught the old tradition that the show must go on. But what's the point of it all when your audience is very  very dead? was a buzzing sound. It kept repeating. The gentle throb of it vibrated his eardrums; the vibrations registered somewhere at the bottom edges of his brain. Buzzzz. Insistently, like a wasp. Like a trapped wasp .  . But there were no wasps in the streamlined metal shell of Vanguard-I. Better answer another part of his brain whispered. Better answer... they want to tell you what to do... God! Some sweat oozed from the dark bunches of his eyebrows, fogged the binocular eye-piece of the orbitsynchronized refractor, but he kept watching, he could not stop watching. Buzzz ! Buzzzz! Red gouts of flame, as big as a pin-head, as big as a shirt-button, as big as -- damn the fogging-up! No, no it was the mushrooms, not the fogging; you could count them, like puffs of gunsmoke along a firing-line stippling the Atlantic seaboard, now branching, riddling westward -- others drifting eastward from the Pacific as though groping toward a pre-planned rendezvous. Buzzzz! Buzzzz! He would answer. There would be the sound of another man's voice and that would make it all real. If he silenced the buzzer and listened to the voice it would be real and not a final training-film; the films would be over, the lectures over, the flight-tests over, the eliminations over and he and Streeter chosen and Streeter dead and buried at Space and now he was alone up in Vanguard-I... Vanguard-I was "up" and Earth Illustrated by Paul Orban was "down # and both were real. Beyond the buzzing, both would be real. The strong young voice was an old voice as it answered the buzzing, as it gave sound to words for the "Home Plate, Home Plate, this is Mrs. Grundy, over... "Mrs. Grundy this is Home Plate. Are you reading? Are you ready for a circus or is all your money gone? Over... "Ready for a circus. Regret delay in acknowledging. I -- was in Observation, over . # "Mrs. Grundy, your Daddy-o wants to talk to you so bye bye baby... General Knight himself. Knight himself to talk to him... so it was that bad Of course it was that bad! "Mrs. Grundy can you read, over..." Knight's voice. It sounded calm. It sounded unruffled. You had to know Knight, you had to have heard him often to know that it was not calm, that it was not at all unruffled... "Even the small print Daddy-o, over... "No words twice so baby make marks -- # Thorn's hand flashed to the card-punch and magnetic-tape unit switches, flicked them to ONnot taken completely off balance; retaliation now in progress as you have probably already observed or will observe in course of orbital passage. Plan Able Zebra effective immediately..." The words were coming so fast they were slurred, and Knight was exaggerating his own Alabama accent. "Expect report once each turn..." He would not have needed the recording or even words twice. Each of Knight's directions was graven into him as it was spoken. To cease all scientific observation... r and recording at once; to begin military observation of the Enemy and his puppet-states, and all possibly-discernible activities, immediately. To remember that as the coast of California appeared on his horizon he was to begin transmitting in code, and that he would finish transmitting before the Atlantic coast disappeared over the horizon behind him. To remember that his stores of fuel were for orbitcorrection only, to be used for effecting an Earthside landing only upon explicit and properly-coded order, or upon threat of otherwise unavoidable destruction. To calculate present stores of food concentrate and air to the hour if possible, not forgetting that with Streeter gone the time-lapse between rendezvous with the supply rocket should be at least doubled. To remember a thousand things; things he already knew by rote... but the tape and card-punch units clicked softly away, recording, recording... "... and Mrs. Grundy here's a morsel for you -- you may have a new neighbor in your block but not like you at all -- there's probably a world between you -- don't take any wooden nickels baby. Say good-bye to Daddy-o baby, over..." "Home Plate this is Mrs. Grundy sees all and heard everything, out." The whole transmission had taken less than two minutes. Now one break, anyway. If, somehow, the Enemy had succeeded in getting up a satellite of his own, he had at least -- according to Knight -- sacrificed the ability to directly monitor Thorn's radio for invisibility. Vanguard-I was aloft for geophysical purposes only, according to the propaganda-pitch back home. But as far as Big Red knew, it was loaded to the locks with as much armament as a thing of its comparatively tiny size could carry. And as far as Thorn himself knew, nobody making geophysical observations had ever needed to do it through the tubes of missilelaunchers like the ones that were cuddled snugly in Vanguard-I's blunt forehull... Such little thoughts whipped quickly through his mind as he tried to make it regain balance for the immediate tasks besetting him, because they were little and simple and easy to grasp and discard. They could keep him from going crazy. It was the bigger thoughts -- the bigger ones that might come later -- they were the kind he had to keep out of his head. Major Joshua Thorn began his work with the equipment, to modify it for use as Daddy-o had told him. He could do it automatically, do it in his sleep, do it blind. Couldn't watch and do it, though. Watch later. Think of the little things now that were easy while the equipment got automatically modified. Little things to keep the big ones like what was happening down there from tipping him over into the whirlpool of madness that was trying so hard to pull at him. Little things... JT Thom." "Yes sir." "This will be your Final Security interrogation. To be followed, upon its favorable completion, by Final Briefing. Before we begin, do you have any questions, Major?" The thick lenses of the glasses reflected the interrogation cubicle's harsh lighting and would not let him see accurately into the pale eyes that blinked behind them. But it was almost as though he and Intelligence, were old friends. And the sweating faces of the three G-# psychiatrists that gleamed at McQuine's left on the opposite end of the big oval-shaped conferencetable -- they were more than familiar. They had never thought he, Thom, was really sane. What really sane man who had flown twice too many missions in one war would volunteer to fly in the next that followed? What sane man would go begging for military flight-test assignments in weird ships that had never been flown anywhere but in a wind-tunnel and on computertapes. And what sane man -- God help him -- what man in his senses would ask to be fired a thousand miles off the Earth with only the knowledge that a thing the size of a basketball had circled the planet successfully for almost a year before it fell back and burned up? Had the Major ever had thoughts of -- well, of doing away with himself? Had the Major hated his father when he was young? Been afraid of girls? (Oh, is that a fact, Major? Well! Well, now...) Only the faces of the three Senate Committee members were different. But they usually were. "Yes sir, one question. It was my understanding -- and Captain Streeter's, I'm sure -- that Final Security and Briefing had been scheduled for about nine weeks from now. There has been no acceleration in the final phases of our program, so -- " "I, ah -- " McQuine interrupted smoothly "think that question might best be answered by your Final Briefing officers, Major. Now, any other questions?" "No sir." So that was it, all right. The rumors, as usual, had a germ of truth in diem. All rumors did. And these had been more persistent than most. Cold war not so cold anymore . General Adams transferring . That last note from Big Red -- didn't all get to the papers! Cold war not so cold anymore... "Now, Major, when you were a sophomore in high-school -- the book entitled # Wwld United was not on your required English or Political Science reading lists, was it?" "No sir, not as I recall, but -- " "Then why did you read it? You have admitted before that you did read it -- " Pause. All up to him. Every single word, every single inflection, up to him... "I took quite an interest in my studies, both in high-school and in college, sir, as I believe my records will show you. They'll show that I also read books relating to other courses that weren't a regular part of the curriculum..." Nodding. But looking him squarely in the face, hesitating just the right length of time. Then suddenly "Major Thorn do you swear here and now in the presence of witnesses that your allegiance to your country comes first above all with the sole possible exception of Almighty God?" "I do so swear..." And on and on... "... why did you major in the Fine Arts in high-school, switch to Engineering in college, then switch again to take your degrees in World History and Political Science... were you ever heard to say, or reported to have said, or did you in fact say... Major, I have here the records of..." The Senators had their questions. The psychiatrists had theirs. "... hesitation, Major, in firing upon an Enemy aircraft, even though disabled... guilt-feeling at destroying a city containing al# you told us that... training for five years now, and you realize... More and more and more, but it was not so difficult to keep his nerves straightened out as it had been the first time or the next time after that. He had told the absolute truth as far as he could possibly know it. So it was just a matter of giving the same answers he had always given. Let 'em make what they could of the truth... "Yes, Senator, I readily admit having written my senior essay on the basis of the book A World United . Yes sir, I studied philosophy and some foreign languages in college... No sir -- no sir, nothing like that. No. Never... And then hardly an hour after it was all over, less than an hour to relax for Streeter and himself, cooped up in a single room with cigarettes and magazines and nothing else and nobody else to talk to, hardly an hour, and then Final Briefing was underway. General Groton: Typical Orders of Procedure. General Simms: Technical Details. General Orton: Estimate of the Present Situation. Rumors , hell... And then the Secretary of Defense himself. "Major Thorn, Captain Streeter... There is probably little I can add to all that has been so thoroughly ingrained in you in your five years of training for this experiment, or learned by both of you, the hard way, in war. But there are certain points I feel I ought to emphasize personally... even though I know you've heard them many, many times before. "First, this is your country. In the adventure -- in the duty, that you are about to undertake, there must be no mistake that your nation comes above all other considerations! Now, I don't question your devotion, I merely re-impress... Pause. The man was good, all right. "Second, despite what you may have heard from -- from any of various sources in recent months, our cold-war Enemy is hard-pressed; he is desperate, and he is likewise determined. Determined as even you may not guess. Our Intelligence has learned that he has trained women to bear arms as well as children for his armies. He has trained them to march, to bivouac, to fly intercontinental bombers, to fly rocket interceptors, to go to the attack with men -- and on an equal basis, and in almost equal numbers. A point to remember, even from where you shall soon sit! Don't forget it. "Last, if -- and we all pray that it won't happen in this or any other generation -- but, if war should come -- if some unsuspecting midnight it should suddenly erupt (and such eruption would be on both our shores, smashing all of our greatest cities even as we retaliated) if this happens, gendemen, you must not forget one thing. You must not forget for an instant that in such a war, all the Enemy must die. "If I sound melodramatic forgive me, and bear with me. You both realize, I'm certain, that any Next War would be a war to the death. After which -- " the skillfully-modulated voice lowered, softened, paused, softened again... "After which, there will be only one of us left. Because there will be no time for armistice, for truce... It will be Our Side, or Theirs. Gendemen, it must be Ours ! So if there is war, I repeat, all the Enemy must die! "That's all I have, except to say good luck and God-speed." Very firm hand-shake for each of them, and Final Briefing was over. Even yet Joshua Thom could remember that first emotion shared by himself and Streeter after the effects of the four-G blast-off had worn away, after the tension of establishing orbit was eased, the first report made to Home Plate, and they were at last granted a moment's rest, a moment's respite to look back, to realize... Done it. Done it... They had done it! They could almost see themselves, the National Emblem emwhite metal skin, riding in dignified, silent triumph over all of the Earth. Now let anybody -- anybody, anybody anywhere (for weren't they above all of anywhere?) shake a fist, rattle a sabre! First Men in Space. Like God, somehow... They thudded each other on the back, they yelled things they could not remember, they let the tears flood down their cheeks without noticing, and they laughed ; they laughed long and loudly with words and wordlessly, and tjien they watched again, watched mighty Earth below them turning by some power that was not theirs to see on an invisible spit over Infinity. It was at the end of the fourth month that Streeter died. "Josh? Josh what's our trouble?" Young, earnest. Wiry and pinkcheeked and an eternal glint of excitement in his light blue eyes. Thorn kept studying the instruments as he answered, slowly, and without alarm in his voice. It wasn't much, but the bunching of his thick eyebrows had given him away. It always did. "Port reflector's all, I guess, Johnny. Been watching it; a hair off, so we're down just enough supply. Must have come out a little cockeyed when we popped it. Want to watch the panel a few minutes while I -- " "Second-guessed you, Skipper -- " Johnny Streeter was already halfway into a pressure-suit. "Just zip me up the back and check my petticoat..." Josh Thorn grinned, closed Johnny's suit, secured his soapbubble helmet. They'd both been Out before so it wasn't as if this was the first time. It was just that this was the first time it had to be done. "Suit-check, Johnny..." "I read you -- " crackled the bulkhead audio. "Air?" "Fourteen point seven psi, oxygen # per cent, nitrogen... They finished the check; all the complex machinery of BaggyDrawers was functioning perfectly. Then Instrument Check -- Methodically, Johnny's gauntleted mitts touched each magnetic hook on the wide girdle, named each implement suspended from it, replaced it. "Can I go out and play now?" "Be a good boy, Johnny." The lock hissed, cycled down, and then Thorn was hearing the metallic noises of Johnny's feet striding ponderously like some story-book Colossus along the "upper" hull, sternward, and then to port. "Be a cinch, Josh," the audio crackled. "If they're all this easy I'll feel like a draft-dodger! Maybe if I swab the deck while I'm ou -- " A sound that wasn't Johnny but it was. "Johnny? Johnny, do you read me?" Josh Thorn could feel sweat dripping on his stomach. "Johnny -- " He left the mike, made his way aft in clumsy haste, the simulated gravity confusing long-conditioned reflexes. And he listened beneath the hull section over which Johnny would be. Listened for a thump, a scrape of metal on metal, a vibration of life... Nothing. His own Baggy-Drawers seemed built for a midget with one leg as he struggled into it. Cursory check -- enough, she worked, she'd have to... Out. Aft. Port. Johnny... Johnny Streeter was still standing, but it was an odd kind of stance; the stance of a marionette on slack strings. Motionless. Standing by the reflector mast, some of his magnetized instruments clinging to it. And then he saw Johnny Streeter's helmet, and saw that it was no longer transparent. Josh tasted vomit on his lips. statisticians had said? About the same chance as a fatal auto accident, having a meteor hit you... E quipment converted, recalibrated for Earthside observation. Equipment checked. Emergency reflectors out (power drain still damned heavy) and radar full out; close-down scanners on, recording equipment humming, ready... Coast coming up in -- ohnine minutes, three-seven seconds. Now wait. You can watch while you wait... His eyes hurt, their sockets hurt as he pressed them too hard into the binocular eye-piece. Damn the fogging! Damn the blue fogging -- blue? No It filled the object-lens; it swirled, it calmed, it coalesced, it thinned, and there was a second's sight through it, and then Josh Thom was swinging the refractor in near-abandon on its panhead... there! Clear! Clear, you could see -- at the edges! Coming in again, drifting, drifting slowly, drifting... blind. His fingertips slipped, grabbed again, swung the telescope too violently, steadied. Blue fog, moving slowly, deliberately, and yet so fast, so unbelievably fast, why, they said it if it ever happened it would take weeks, months, maybe years, but they could've been wrong, so many things they couldn't have known... Blue. Cobalt blue. With some force of sheer power of reason, Joshua Thorn forced himself from the refractor; forced himself past the blue-faced scanners (maybe it was only an Enemy trick; an Enemy screen, the biggest blue smoke-screen ever made!) to overdue. Minutes overdue; they were waiting for him down there, waiting for his call, wondering if perhaps the screen had really fooled him, or if it were really effective in blocking his sight, or if... They were right down there, right underneath him, waiting under the blue smoke-screen. "Home Plate Home Plate this is Mrs. Grundy over..." Crackling. "Home Plate Home Plate this is Mrs. Grundy. Home Plate Home Plate what's the matter can't you read? Home Plate Home Plate this is Mrs. Grundy, over... Over ! # Crackling. The meters... All right -- on the nose, right. What were they, asleep down there? Maybe the smokecould try a bounce and see. Narrow beam. Tight. Watch the screen... Pip. Pip. Pip. Getting through. Lousy smoke, just couldn't see through it... "Home Plate Home Plate Home Plate -- " He had beep around fifty times; he had counted. It had taken one hundred hours ; he had counted... He had transmitted steadily since the twentieth time, in the few languages he knew beside his own, for sixty hours; he had counted. He had only a whisper for a voice now, and only aching places where his ears were. But it didn't matter. It didn't matter. "Home Plate, this is Mrs. Grundy -- "Can anyone read me? Does anyone read me down there? " Kann jedermann. mich horen? Aniworten-Sie , bitte... " Repondez , repondez si vous mfentendrez... "Damn you can't you hear me He'd tried to keep track of the time. He thought it had been a month; maybe more, but a month anyway. And now the blue was solid over Earth, over all of it. There were still little swirls, little eddies of it here and there, but most of it -- already, most of it had settled like a fixed shell, like the quiescent sutt face of a stagnant pool. And somehow he'd accepted it. They were all dead down there. Cobalt blue had killed them all, killed them all... Funny. It had a rhythm to it. Cobalt blue had killed them all, killed them all, Cobalt bombs had killed them all -- But if they were all dead... And if he were not dead... Then he was the last human being left alive. That was crazy. Nobody could be -- nobody could be the last -- But there was nobody. Except him. So, it followed: therefore -- ergo: logically, if there was nobody, and if... God it was dark. God, it was quiet. And if... If you laugh you'll go crazy. If you don't laugh, if you don't laugh, if you -- hell, only one dose of barbiturate left in the First Aid stores... big thing, hard to swallow... and if there's nobody left, then... Sleep. three months, but he'd left it on regardless of the power drain just in case. He had divided the hours off into sleeping and eating periods, and he had just slept, and just eaten, and he'd shaved, and put on a fresh uniform. He had knotted the tie perfectly; his collar insignia were shined and pinned in place without a single wrinkle. He had it figured out. He could die of oxygen, if not food, starvation in five more months, three and one-half more days. And that would be the end of it. The hell it would! Who the hell did they think they were to do this to him... But he had his computers. He had his reference-tapes. He had his refractor and his scanners, and his s#r-charts and his store of fuel for orbital correction (ninety percent of which remained, because it had beep an almost perfect shot) and he had his brains. If you threw a stone off the rear of a moving train at a speed less than the train's speed forward, the stone would of course leave the train, but in relation to the ground would still be travelling in the train's direction. If you threw a satellite away from its path around Earth and directly into Earth's wake, but at a speed less than Earth's forward speed in its orbit, the satellite would break free, but would continue in Earth's orbital direction. And then with a brief side-blast, you could warp into an orbit around the Sun all your own, or -- into that of the planet Venus, if you chose... And beneath that eternal shell of cloud -- who knew? He had his computers. He had his reference-tapes. He had his refractor and his scanners, and his star-charts and his precious store of fuel. (Three-score years and ten, the Good Book said. Better than five months. Better than sitting and waiting. So he would fail -- no worse than what was Below.) And he had his brains. He worked methodically. He drew schedules : four hours of work, one for eating and relaxation; five hours more of work, and another for food and rest; six hours more of work, then seven for sleep, and then the cycle began again. By making a rhythm of it, he thought, rather than a program of perfectly equal work-periods, he would avoid monotony. With monotony would come despair, and with despair... Despair of course would kill him. And there was the thing in him that would not be killed; a thing that had been rooted as deep within his kind as Life itself, since the first Man had shambled erect on the face of the still-steaming Earth. He would survive. As Joshua Thom, and as Man. He would not let Man die yet. Not out here. Not in the cold dark alone. Somehow, Thorn thought, Man had earned a better way, a better place to die... But of course it was silly to think that Man should ever die, that be could ever die... Ridiculous. Baloney. Oh, you could kill a lot of people, certainly. Sure. But the whole race of Man -- nuts to the philosophers! The only thing they knew how to do was think l He worked methodically, ascertaining first that at the present point in her orbital swing, Venu  approaching as she was from aphelion, would be in close enough proximity as she passed by to be met within the time limit set by his remaining store of food and oxygen. And he ascertained secondly that he had sufficient "emergency" fuel (and this, he assumed, might be classified as an emergency of sorts?) to blast him out of orbit and into Earth's wake with barely sufficient speed to assure him of not falling back. If the computers weren't lying, there'd even be enough after that to warp him into the gradual, drifting arc that would intercept Venus in her path around the Sun, and then -- perhaps enough to effect landing. Barely, if at all. His taut mouth twitched in a humorless little smile. What an irony to actually succeed -- to make it all the way, first human in history to accomplish it -- and then, maybe one or two hundred feet above surface, to have the final drop of fuel run out... So... what was there to lose but the race of Man... And that anyway, eventually. Thirty-five more years (if he were lucky; he smiled again) appended to -- how many? a nervous twitch on the skin of Time. A spark in an eternal, allconsuming fire; a spark that died even as it flared its little second and then crumbled into ashes. and made a note of the date; it was # homs, October #. He did not even glance at the pale-blue thing that rolled and shimmered grotesquely a scant thousand miles on his left. Be damned to you! But you are damned already. So goodbye. His fingers finished the business of tightening the heavy buckle of his seat-belt, and then the punched the red firing-studs, and Vanguard-I broke her bondage. The ferroelectric brains of the computers considered silently; acted. The organic brain of the man hazed red, hazed darkly, and trusted, for it was powerless to do more save fight a primal struggle for consciousness. It could not regard the situation. It could not think: I am the first human being to fly Space. It could not think, of all the things that all the humans in all of history have ever done, I alone have done this. Roll the drums for Agamemnon, Roll the drums for Hercules! Roll the drums for Caesar, Alexander, for Amenhotep, Rameses... drum the drums for Khan, for Suleiman, for Plato, Aristides -- drum your drums for York and Tudor, Bacon, Michelangelo... For Austerlitz. For York town. Chickamauga, Ypres, and Anzio... Roll the drums. Roll the drums for me... Motors off. Click-hum, computers... Silently. Wheel your eternal wheeling, stars. Darkly. Cold. The screens showed white, thick white, and the fuel-pumps disgorged the remainder of Vanguard Vs life-blood into the roaring combustion chambers. The muted complaining of heavy atmosphere keened up the scale to a banshee's lament and sweat poured from Josh Thom's half-nude body as his tiny metal cell grew stifling. Power -- how much power to keep from becoming a vagrant meteorite in Venus' milky skies? From flaring, white-hot, and falling... a cinder from nowhere, with nowhere to go, the last of Earth's ashes... One hundred miles. Fifty. Thirty. Twelve... Cooler, now. He shivered in # degrees Fahrenheit, shivered in #, in #... His sweat was cold. Ten thousand feet! Slowing, slowing, a century of time to drop to nine thousand, ease off the power, eight thousand, steady; fuel, barely, six thousand, steady,... Steady Watch your screens! Green. Brown, yellow, blue-veined green; low-rolling magenta mountains westward, cloud-shadows rippling, mingling with tenuous wisps of steam... steam from the jungles of tall forest... One thousand feet. No sign of mobile life on this planet, in this valley into which VanguardI lowered. But all sign -- all sign, indeed, of the rich lushness that would support it, embrace it, hold it close like a long-denied lover... Thorn sweated again -- hot sweat, now -- at his scanners, his control panel. Temperature again hovering past #, but there was no time to notice or to feel. One hundred feet... gently... And then Vanguard-I was down, and at rest. Josh Thom hesitated. BaggyDrawers? Or not? Beneath the white, tenuous outer atmospheric shell of methane and ammonia, what? Air he could breathe? Or poison that would strangle him -- He swung the inner air-lock open. If poison, then death would be but a matter of days ; the bubble of Made-in-U.S.A. atmosphere that across Space had supplied him for the nearly four months the Journey had taken. It had done its job, he could demand no more than that. Two weeks more, at best, and it would tye spent forever. Two weeks, thirty-five years, five thousand centuries -- He swung the outer air-lock open. And breathed. And breathed. And breathed deeply again. Joshua Thorn wanted to cry. There was a hurt in his throat, and he wanted to yell, and he wanted to laugh great peals of laughter even as the unchecked salt tears streamed across the deep valleys of his cheeks. He walked, he ran. He stopped, he turned his face to the sky, he spread his arms wide and let the great bellows of laughter roll from his lips in the lusty prayer of thanks that only the living who are full with life and amid the teeming fullness of life can know. Thank you, God. Thank you God. Thank you... (For this little while more, for this little while more for the race of Man; I am the last of Man, You know -- ) He prayed thank you, but he did not pray for more, because this was already more than he deserved ; the Almighty had been merciful, compassionate and merciful, and he could not ask for more, in no way dared ask -- The thunder seemed straight above him. The sound of his own laughter had drowned it out at first, and then the two had mingled, and then as he stood gasping for new breath, as his hoarse voice rested, he heard it -- welling as if from a great heavy throat, and now rising to a baleful cry, then falling -- falling gently, and now a new thunder to drown it, a mightier thunder than the first Joshua Thom stood transfixed as he watched the gleaming bulletshape descend its pillar of fire. It could have been twin to Vanguard-I. It was descending -- it was -- maneuvering to be near him! From somewhere far back in his brain the words formed again, and Mrs. Grundy here's dirt for you -- you may have a new neighbor in your block but not like you at all -- probably a world between you -- don't take any wooden nickels... But Daddy-o could never know, would never comprehend -- He was running, stumbling, falling, running again toward the spot where the red-starred satellite of the Enemy (Enemy, what a madman's word now!) would land. Running like a child, running like an idiot, arms waving, mouth laughing, throat shouting -- Thank you, oh Thank you God .   He was within twenty yards of the craft when its outer lock opened. Fifteen when the uniformed figure who stepped out caught sight and sound of him, ten when the rifle was aimed at him, five before he could comprehend the mindless meaning of it -- But we are the only two human beings left! his brain whimpered... All of the Enemy must die! a remembering part of his mind intoned... But someone had trained the Enemy, too. The scarlet insigne emblazoned on the streamlined metal shell seemed on fire in the filtered Venusian sunlight. Thom's plunging hands grabbed the muzzle of the weapon even as it fired, wrenched it aside without feeling the hurt where his left earlobe had been. "Great God, you imbecile -- " Twisting the weapon, struggling, trigger-finger constricting to fire again, a final, sudden twist, the finger wrenched against the trigger even as the butt was swinging upward, the muzzle swinging down... The muffled explosion. The gaping, oozing hole in the Enemy's breast. Joshua Thom looked down at the crumpled figure, watched as the slow-moving shadow of a cloud eddied across it. He tried to sob, for he could not pray again. He turned. Back toward Vanguard-I. If only he could cry. Behind him, the Enemy lay dead. All, now, all of the Enemy... was dead. Her body would soon be turning cold.    peared in IF during its first five years! A festive book for a festive occasion! Watch for it! T HE first terrestrial expedition to Mars didn't find any Martians. Neither did the second. Since there are so few Martians left, those facts are less surprising than that the third did. i . r For many years before space Everyone knows that Earth s flight was accomplished, there had been discussions and theories about how to communicate with Martians, if any existed. But, of course, nobody was ready when the time the third planet from the sun . came. They fell back on that antiquated gimmick. Von Frisch, Riley and Smith But how about looking at it watched the , ha  doze  Martians  approach, and their watching was not without some trepidation. Except that they were about twenty miles away from their G-boat -- the planetary landing craft -- they probfrom an alien point of view? ably would have fled. Except that they had their orders, they probably would have shot first and asked questions later. "Sir, this is Von Frisch," said the engineer into the microphone of his helmet. He was a little "We're being approached by Martians!" "How do they act?" asked Captains Powers back at the G-boat, immediately. "They don't act hostile, sir." "Stand by, then, but don't take any chances. What do they look like?" "They're quite a bit taller than we are, but their bodies are round and not much bigger than a child's. They've got real long legs and arms, and big heads with big eyes and ears." "Are they intelligent? Are they civilized? How do they breathe?" "Wait a minute, Captain," protested Von Frisch. "You're going a little too fast, sir. They've just come up to us. I don't know whether that's fur on them or whether they're wearing clothes." "Well, try to communicate with them, man!" exclaimed Powers excitedly. Von Frisch did his best. The Martians appeared friendly enough, and interested. Von Frisch tried to communicate in the only method he had heard about. While his companions watched curiously, he shut his ears to the running fire of questions from Powers, squatted and drew a right angled triangle in the red desert sand. By one of the sides he drew three marks, by another four. Then he stepped back and looked questioningly at the Martians. One of the Martians squatted in a tangle of pipestem arms and legs, and with a long finger drew five lines beside the triangle's hypotenuse. "They understand the Pythagorean theorem, sir!" exclaimed Von Frisch. "Good! They undoubtedly know some astronomy, then. Go on." Von Frisch hesitated a moment, then erased the triangle. He drew a small circle with rays from it, for the sun. He drew four larger concentric circles around it, with small circles for planets on the rim of each one. He pointed to the third planet, then at himself, then at his companions, one by one. Then he pointed at the fourth planet and at the Martians, one by one. To complete the matter, he pointed at the sky. "We are Earthmen," he said. "You are Martians." The trouble was that the Earthmen didn't realize the things the Martians had were weapons until they used them. They didn't realize it then, as a matter of fact, because the Earthmen were dead, all three of them. The Martian hunting party came back from the desert with word of the strange creatures who came , apparently , from another world . "Whether they have weapons , we do not know" said the leader of the hunting party. "But they wished to harm our people , so we killed them all" " That is desperate action" said the patriarch of the village . "In what way were they dangerous to us?" "Foolishly they disclosed their intention to us" replied the leader of the hunting party. "They informed us they planned to take over our world and to drive our people farther from the sun, to the great planet Jupiter." "Then you did right ," said the patriarch, blinking his big eyes. Biggs and Golden were working near the G-boat. Their helmet radios were set to a different channel from that used by the exploring (Continued on page # ) What Is Your Science I. Q. ? answer; # is good, # very good, over # makes you a whizz. Answers are on page #. I . The sidereal year is about longer than the solar year. #. How many degrees must be added to the centigrade scale to change it to the Kelvin scale? #. The boiling point of a substance is that point at which its vapor pressure is equal to -- . #. What do we call atoms which have lost or gained an electron? #. An hour of our time represents an arc of degrees in the apparent rotation of the celestial sphere. #. Light must pass from one medium to another at an angle before refraction can occur. #. Hypersonic speeds are speeds over miles per hour. #. Which radioactive rays have the greatest penetrative power? #. The unit of measurement of the quantity of electrical flow is called a . #. According to the theory of relativity, mass depends on . #. The ratio of atomic weight to specific gravity determines the of an element. #. Avogardo's Law is the basis for determining the molecular weight of . #. Which proton is believed to be the fundamental positive charged unit of the atom? #. Meteors composed entirely of stone are called . #. The zigzag movement of microscopic particles suspended in a fluid is called . #. The straight line which joins the center of an attracting body with that of the body describing an orbit around it is called . #. How many miles per second would be the necessary escape velocity from the moon? #. Short waves have frequencies over kilocycles. #. A fourth dimensional geometric super solid is called a . #. There are prime numbers in the first one hundred. We all know that every android has its little idiosyncrasies. But what can a civilized human being do about it Illustrated by Paul Orban when his perfect servant drives him crazy? the android and dropped her suitcase on the floor. She turned to her husband and said in an angry, unsteady voice, "I'm leaving. ,, Her double chin trembled. "I can't stand the sight of that thing another second." Raymond Golden gripped his empty glass with both hands, leaned forward tensely in the chair, and tried to find the right words. "Paula," he began helplessly. "Please wait. I'll get it fixed, or sell it, or trade it in. I'll do something." Mrs. Golden pointed a shaky, pudgy finger. "I'll never come back as long as that is here." She bent to pick up her suitcase. The android approached silently and stared at her posterior. "Madam," the android said, "you are getting quite fat." Paula's back snapped upward. Her face was red and there were dark shadows under her eyes. "I can't stand it!" she shrieked. "I can't! I can't!" The words pierced Raymond's skull, exploded and splattered within. He winced under the barrage. Paula ignored the automatic door button, and flung the plastic slab open with her hand. The android followed her with its cold stare and spoke in its perfect voice. "Madam, that dress is atrocious. I would suggest that you change at once to your gray, princess silk, which will, at least, create the impression of slenderness." Paula screamed hysterically and ran out of the apartment. The android moved swiftly to the door and called after her, "Farewell, Madam. Watch your weight. Take care." It pushed the button on the wall and the door swung shut. The dreaded ultimatum had at last been carried out, and Raymond felt helpless, numbed. Indecision settled upon him like a leaden cloak and pulled him back against the foam-air-rest, where his head wobbled uncomfortably. He closed his burning, blood-shot eyes, and found no peace. He rubbed them with his free hand, and opened his vision to the staring android. Without any conscious thought, his arm extended in a slow, habitual motion. The android responded automatically, plucked the empty glass out of his hand, and said, "You drink too much, sir." Raymond nodded irritably. "I know. You've reiterated that profound spiritual message with monotonous irregularity." "But you do, you know." Raymond shouted angrily, "Shut up!" "Very good, sir." The android was a tall, handsome model. Its voice was deep, resonant and faintly British. It glided over to the built-in bar and performed rapid, indiscernible manipulations involving ice cubes, whiskey and soda. The android returned swiftly with the drink and served it with a sweeping flourish. Raymond took the glass and gestured impatiently. "Cigar." "Very good, sir." The android withdrew a long, brown cigar from the humidor on the small, floating ebony end-table, placed the clipped end in Raymond's mouth, and lit it with the tip of its forefinger, which suddenly glowed red. It watched as Raymond puffed up several billowing, little gray clouds. The smoke drifted towards the android, and it said: "Disgusting habit." Raymond raised his glass, sipped the cold liquid, and remarked bitterly, "What a pity you can't enjoy your own poisonous concoctions." The android stepped back and stared fixedly at the man. "You are a sot, sir." Raymond exploded. "What!" "S-o-t, sot. An alcoholic. A drunkard. One who imbibes intoxicating liquors." Raymond jumped out of the chair and threw his glass and cigar on the carpet violently. The cigar sizzled in the midst of the foaming liquid. He glared at the android. "You go to hell!" "As I have repeatedly attempted to impress upon your happy, pickled brain, sir," the android said, "It is impossible for me to go there." "That isn't exactly what I meant." "In that case, sir, I would suggest that hereafter you say what you mean." Raymond swore. He swayed uncertainly, and then dropped back into the chair. He reached out to the floating table for a fresh cigar, jammed it in his mouth, and chewed it nervously. He was a short, chubby man, with brown, thinning hair, a double chin, and lines around his mouth; where a friendly smile had recently met an untimely death. Raymond pulled his cigar out of his mouth and stared at the wet soggy end. He moved his head from side to side, turned his gaze on the android, and muttered through his teeth, "You and your impeccable androidal exterior have got to go." The decision immediately had a relaxing effect. Raymond's moist brow unwrinkled itself momentarily, and he almost smiled at the thought. "Allow me to point out, sir," the android said. "That you have, to date, invested approximately three thousand dollars in my interior and exterior, as well." Raymond nodded sadly. "Not to mention fifteen more easy, cardiovascular producing payments." He placed his hand over the spot, where, deep down, his heart was located. Satisfied that it was still there, he said, "I've got a lot of expensive money tied up in you, but if I have to choose between mechanical misery and matrimonial bliss, I'll settle for Paula's brand of inhuman torture." "That, sir, is extremely faulty, illogical, and irrational reasoning. Typical, however, of most humans." Raymond smiled grimly and stood up. "If you will watch closely, oh, loyal servant, you will note that I am about to do something not so typical of my assorted human friends. ,, Walking unsteadily over to the bar, he reached into a small drawer, and withdrew a small plastic con"In fact," Raymond said, as he removed two pills and tossed them into his mouth, "I must be out of my mind." He swallowed hard, blinked, and gasped. For a moment he leaned heavily on the bar. Then suddenly, clarity. The room was brighter. The drab grays resolved into blue and yellow pastel panelling along the walls. The carpeting was a rich deep blue. The polished floating ebony slab glittered in the room. "Come on, Android. We're heading for the big city." The city, as they flew over it, was a blazing ocean of roof-top advertisements, designed to attract the attention of the overhead traffic. Raymond threw a switch and a private radar beacon blipped brightly on his jetcopter's screen. He touched a button and the controls automatically guided the craft towards a gigantic flashing sign, The jetcopter dropped onto the roof-top parking lot with a thud. The android and Raymond climbed out and took the nearest escalator down to the mezzanine. They entered the Sales Manager's office, where Raymond cornered Mr. Krutchamer, the Assistant Sales Manager, and quickly explained the difficulties with the android. Mr. Krutchamer was a smsdl wiry man with a surprisingly deep, impressive voice. He shrugged his slight shoulders, after listening patiently, and said, "Doesn't sound like a mechanical manifestation to me, sir." "Mechanical or electronical," Raymond demanded perplexed, "what's the difference?" "Well, sir," Mr. Krutchamer began with a flashing white-toothed smile, "you've had your android for three months, and while our guarantee is for one year, it specifically spells out an unconditional warranty against mechanical defects." "No guarantee against any electronic defects?" The little man shook his head emphatically. "No, sir. All electrical parts are guaranteed, of course, for thirty days, but you've had the android for ninety days." Mr. Krutchamer's face was sad, his eyebrows crept down over his eyes, and his voice dropped to a confidential decibel level. "I'm sorry, sir, but your problem sounds more like a chronic psycho-electronic condition. I would recommend "What's that?" Raymond was annoyed. His face was flushed and he squinted at the little man. "Doctor of Psychiatric Robotory." "This android doesn't need Psycho-therapy, damn it," Raymond said hotly. "Maybe some minor adjustment with a heavy monkey wrench. But that's all." "Perhaps." The little man turned #  on the smile. "The important thing in an android is that it function properly and efficiendy. We are prepared in every way to keep your android in perfect operating condition, but we do not feel that it is at all necessary to concern ourselves with an android's alleged thoughts or vocal expressions. After all, it is only an android. A machine. A clever machine, but a machine." "This clever machine has driven my wife out of our home, and is edging me into a cybernetic psychoneurosis." Raymond walked stiffly out of the Sales Manager's office on to the balcony that overlooked the various androids that were on display in the showroom below and stared at variety of tall, short, slim, fat, young, middle-aged, and old looking androids. Mr. Krutchamer approached him slowly. Raymond fought back his annoyance and asked in desperation, "What kind of deal can you give me on a trade in?" The Assistant Sales Manager smiled and said thoughtfully, "Let me see." He turned and examined the android. He looked it up and down, walked around in back of it, and looked it up and down some more. Then he circled it slowly three times, and concluded the ritual by making clucking noises with his teeth. Finally Mr. Krtuchamer said, "Can't give you too much, you realize. It isn't equipped with radar, or any navagational instruments, or even the built-in computer. About as high as I can go would he one thousand." "One thousand!" exclaimed Raymond. "That would leave a balance of almost four thousand, plus the balance I've already got on this one." The android stared at Raymond and said, "I could have told you that before you came down here, sir. Raymond jumped, and snapped at the android, "Shut up!" Raymond was furious. He turned suddenly on Mr. Krutchamer. The Assistant Sales Manager ran into his office and closed the door behind him. "Really, sir," the android said, "your method of operating this flying machine is truly offensive." Raymond jabbed the throttle and the jetcopter leaped forward. He sat tensely at the controls, beads of perspiration across his forehead. The android said, "I would suggest, sir, that you allow me to demonstrate the proper method of operating these controls." The jetcopter lurched suddenly in a sharp turning motion, and angled in rapidly for a reckless, Mr. Wheeler personally met Raymond and the android as they disembarked. "Greetings," he said. "Looking for a good used android?" Raymond shook his head. "Got one I want to sell." He pointed and asked, "How much?" Wheeler examined the android rapidly and said, "Looks like a good clean model. Guess I could give you about five hundred cash' Raymond exclaimed, "What! That the best you can do?" Wheeler nodded and smiled. "That's Blue Book on this model. Take it or leave it. That's my top offer -- cash." Raymond turned away. "Come, my faithful manservant," he said despondently. "Let us return to our dismal retreat, where I can get properly and thoroughly liquored up." jected. His face was lined and despair was in his eyes. He collapsed into his favorite chair and dispatched the android to the bar. Two highballs later an idea dashed itself to pieces in Raymond's brain. He jumped up, ran over to the Televisor, and placed a call to Allied-News-Facs. When the News-Facs android's plastic face appeared on the screen, Raymond said, "I want to place an ad in the For Sale or Swap section of the Four O'clock Edition." "Yes, sir. What do you desire to say?" Raymond frowned. "Just say this: Anyone desiring to take over the payments of one darling, efficient, well-mannered, handsome, unbearably conscientious android can purchase the equity extremely cheap at great sacrifice." "Is that all?" "Yes, for now. If that doesn't work, I'll call you back." He gave his address and televisor number and switched off. Raymond turned to his android and said, "I've reconsidered. Maybe psycho-electronic-therapy can really help -- one of us' He glanced at his watch. It was eleven a. m. "Let's go." The android followed obediently and said, "This is extremely monotonous Inside, the waiting room was jammed with human beings and assorted electronic, two-legged contrivances. Surprise halted Raymond half-way through the doorway, and he studied the crowd in disbelief. A beautiful female voice pierced the noisy confusion of human and unhuman voices: "Do you have an appointment, or are you human?" Raymond stared at the Receptionist-Android, with its fixed smile on its sculptured feminine face, and replied unhappily, "I had no idea I would need one." The Receptionist-Android smiled steadily. "Is this an emergency, or a disaster, or are you sober?" "Could be," Raymond replied, bewildered. "Yes." "If you desire to wait, perhaps the Doctor might see you, see you, see you. But I don't see why, see why, see why." Mumbling a hasty assent, Raymond retreated into an unoccupied corner, where he and his android waited. The other men and women in the room were a grim, haggard looking group. As for the other androids, Raymond refused to look at them; and he closed his ears to all sound. Noon came and passed, and the afternoon dragged. Raymond lost his feeling of impatience, and stood in the comer trance-like. Finally at two-thirty a tiny green light flashed in the Receptionist-Android's metallic bosom. "The doctor will see you now or never." The large, spacious office, with its glowing walls, dimmed ceiling, and deep, soft carpeting was a silent, soothing relief. Raymond's android watched as the two men engaged in a mutually weary handshake. Dr. Millhop was a tall thin, sharp featured man. There were black moons under his eyes that lay heavily on long, guttered wrinkles. He leaned back in his chair, as Raymond explained the android's manifestations. The Doctor nodded his head in the manner of a man who had been listening to the same story all day, day after day. "Mr. Golden," Dr. Millhop said, "you must realize that every android has its own peculiar idiosyncrasies. Unfortunately, in some instances, there is absolutely nothing that can be done about it." Raymond gestured at his android, and asked hopefully, "What about this instance?" "I don't know," the Doctor replied frankly. "Before I can express an opinion, it will be necessary to run your android through exhaustive tests and have my technical staff examine its electronic circuits minutely. If it is a simple matter of rewiring, or, say, a faulty component, why, of course, we can straighten it out very easily. However, if it is a condition that is caused by Unknown Factors, then I can prescribe only one thing." He paused, spread his palms, and added sadly, "As so many of us seem to be attempting these days -- don't lose your temper " "How long will it take to run your tests?" "We can send it into the lab immediately, run it through the analyzers, and have a report in one hour." Raymond reached into his coat pocket for a cigar, stuck it in his mouth and lighted it with an oldfashioned lighter. He puffed thoughtfully, took one glance at the android, and said, "Let's do it." The android's head swiveled sharply, staring first at Raymond and then at the Doctor. "Isn't anyone going to consult me?" Dr. Millhop's chair groaned, as he leaned forward suddenly. His voice was cold death in an angry whisper. "Shut up!" The Doctor viciously pressed a button. A large panel in the wall snapped open and two huge, square-shouldered, power-androids clanked into the room. The Doctor pointed. They lifted Raymond's protesting android, and carried it from the room. Back in the waiting room, Raymond drummed his fingers nervously on the receptionist's desk. He finished his cigar, started another one and finished that one. Precisely one hour later the little light flashed on the Receptionist-Android's dashboard chest. "The Doctor will see you again and again and again." As Raymond re-entered the office, the Doctor was examining a folder. "Mr. Golden," Dr. Millhop said in a tired voice without looking up, "there is absolutely nothing that can be done, short of electronic lobotomy." Raymond asked, "What is electronic lobotomy?" "That is tantamount to an entirely new memory bank. Even then we cannot guarantee that some other idiosyncrasy will not develop. Frankly, I do not recommend it to you. It is an expensive process, and lobotomys are mainly performed in the larger industrial robotic devices, where an extremely expensive piece of equipment is involved." The chubby man rubbed his jaw. "Fve got to salvage my investment somehow. How much will it cost?" "Three thousand dollars." Raymond shrugged sadly, turned and walked out of the room. The Receptionist-Android looked up at him and said impersonally, "You will receive the Doctor's enormous bill by Telefacs." As Raymond entered his apartment, disillusioned and exhausted, the Four O'clock News-Facs, containing his want-ad, was sputtering out of the receiver. When the News-Facs had ceased its chattering, he scanned the paper, grunted a resentful satisfaction, and slumped into his favorite chair. He sat and fidgeted, and waited and waited, until darkness fell. But there was no response to his ad. Finally he said to the android, "Looks as if you and I were meant for each other forever and ever." "Certainly, sir," replied the android. "You need a stable, intelli-. gent advisor and mentor to save you from your frequent, horrifying errors of human judgment. For instance, I could have told you in advance that electronic butcher could not so much as cure headaches in a buzzsaw. In short, sir, you will never find a finer, more loyal, more capable android than myself. Put yourself entirely in my hands. I will even do your thinking for you." Raymond shook his head wearily, and remarked, "I am both excruciatingly sad and divinely happy at that information." "I am mystified at your sadness, sir, though gratified at any little happiness I might bring into your drab, miserable existence." Raymond said mildly, almost too mildly, "Shut up." "Very good, sir." With an effort the chubby man got to his feet, walked to the bar and poured himself a long drjnk. The following morning Raymond, finding his body host to a horrible hangover, staggered into the living room, and fumbled behind the bar for a small plastic conHe removed two blue pills and tossed them into his mouth. When Raymond was halfway through his second cup of coffee, he suddenly jumped to his feet and snapped his fingers. "I've got it. What a tremendous, frightening idea. But it might work." He raced over to the Televisor and put in another call to AlliedNews-Facs. A half hour later the ad was coming out of the News-Facs machine in an excited staccato that matched Raymond's quickening pulse. As soon as the ad was printed, he ripped it out of the receiver: Raymond grinned happily for the first time in days. "Ingenious." The android said, "A complete, hopeless waste of human endeavor, sir. However, it is quite typical of your impulsive and somewhat obnoxious personality." Raymond laughed. "Say anything you like, my vanishing servant. You are not long for my little world." Thirty minutes later the automatic door-announcer sang out: "Visitor!" Raymond set the door control on automatic. A tall, thin, haggard looking man entered and offered his moist hand in a feeble grip. "My name is Groober." He pointed weakly at the glistening android behind him. "Tins is George." Raymond stared hopefully at George and said, "Our android was once fondly known as Francois, but we've since been unable to think of it as anything but It " Mr. Groober sat down with a sigh, and said in a hoarse voice, "This idiotic robotic device has a chemurgical complex." George, the android, stared at Raymond. "Sir, you have an extremely high fat content." Raymond briefly described his android to Mr. Groober, and the latter shook his head sadly. "Looks as if they've got a lot in common." Raymond nodded sympathetically. The door-announcer sang out again: "Visitor!" A little old lady entered. "I am Mrs. Quimby," she announced in a squeaky voice. "And this is Daisy." Daisy followed her in, walking on its hands. Raymond stared curiously at Daisy and remarked, "That's a new twist." Mrs. Quimby said with bitterness, "That ain't all Daisy does." Daisy suddenly collapsed to the floor, leaped to its feet, and began jumping up and down. Its feet hit the floor with a crash; it's head hit the ceiling with a thud; up and down, up and down. Raymond asked, "How do you stop it? My ceiling can't take much more of that." Mrs. Quimby said, "Don't know. Depends on the ceiling." "Visitor!" The door-announcer cried again in its one-word recorded glee. A large android walked in ahead of a short, perspiring man. The android announced, "I am Ulysses, the greatest android ever produced. This poor creature is my old, worn out owner. I am here to find. a new, strong, vigorous owner. Which one of you is interested?" The door-announcer sang out again and again. In two hours the little apartment was jammed with human beings and inhuman androids. The interviewing process no longer involved Raymond alone. It became an interwoven, complex affair. The confused, excited melee continued on through the night. It lasted all through the following day and night, and on into the day after, when the last guest left with his militaristic android counting cadence in a loud grating voice. Raymond mixed a strong drink and collapsed into his chair, muttering to himself, "How utterly, utterly hopeless. There wasn't a single android that didn't have some glaring incurable idiosyncrasy that could drive Paula and me completely out of our minds as easily as our present mechanized helpmate." He appealed to the cracked ceiling. "What am I going to do?" His android said, "You look like a tired, fat old man." "Shut up." The android stared at Raymond and asked, "What fiendish, diabolical, sure-fire scheme have you devised in that tiny, inadequate human brain of yours now, sir?" Raymond leered at the android. Perspiration was breaking out all over his body. His lower lip began to tremble and his cheek twitched. Raymond tapped hip forehead. "When science fails," he said in a hoarse whisper, "there is but pne method left for a poor, ignorant savage with a primitive brain." Moving forward swiftly, Raymond bent over, and seized the floating ebony end-table in both hands. "Gome here, oh, modest, unassuming, subservient one. I want to bend your ear." Raymond lunged forward and swung. The android dodged awkwardly, and the table top glanced off the side of its head. For a long moment the android remained quiet and motionless. Finally it said, "Did you ring, sir?" The ebony slab slipped from Raymond's hands. He squinted at the android from under drooping, redrimmed eyelids. The android's head remained perfectly still. Its eyes did not follow him. Raymond stepped over to the bar, made tinkling noises with the bottles, and waited tensely. Silence. Pure silence. The stillness of the room was suddenly warm and friendlv. Astonishment swept over Raymond in a dizzy wave. He asked in an excited whisper, "Who are you?" The android turned towards him and bowed humbly. "Your servant. # -- #. # -- Oblique. # -- #. # -- Gamma. # -- Coulomb. # -- Velocity. #I -- Atomic volume. # -- Gases. # -- Hydrogen. # -- Aerolites. # -- Brownian movement. # -- Radius vector, # -- #. # -- #. # -- Tesseract. # -- #. How can a ship travel both forward and backward and sideways in two different directions , be going twice as fast as the speed of light -- and still be completely motionless? the flight preparation crew filed out of the Argo?s airlock. Barnes was the last; fat and bald and squinting against the brightness of the Arizona sun. "All set, Carl," he said. "They had us to check and countercheck, especially the drives." Engle nodded. "Good. Ground Control reports the Slug cruiser still circling seven hundred miles out and they think the Slugs suspect something." "Damned centipedes!" Barnes said. "I still say they're telepathic." He looked at his watch. Zero hour minus twenty-six minutes. "Good luck, boy, and I hope this space warp dingus works like they think it will." He waddled down the boarding ramp and Engle went through the airlock, frowning a little as he threw the switches that would withdraw the ramp and close the airlock behind him. Barnes' implied doubt in the success of the space warp shuttle was not comforting. If the shuttle failed to work, the Argosy would be on the proverbial spot with the Slug cruiser eager to smear it well thereupon... Access to the control room was up through the room that housed the space warp shuttle. Dr. Harding, the tall, bristle-browed physicist, and his young assistant, Garvin, looked up briefly as he entered then returned their attention to their work. The master computer, borrowed from M.I.T., stood like a colossal many-dialed refrigerator along one wall. A protective railing around it bore a blunt left unwatched. Garvin was seated before it, his fingers flitting over the keyboard and the computer's answer panel replying with strange mathematical symbols. The space warp shuttle sat in the middle of the room, a cube approximately two-thirds of a meter along the edge, studded with dials and knobs and surmounted by a ball of some shining silvery alloy. Dr. Harding was talking into the transdimensional communicator mounted beside the shuttle. Engle went on to the computer and waited outside the railing until Illustrated by Paul Orban Garvin finished with his work and turned in his seat to face him. "The last check question," Garvin said. "Now to sweat out the last twenty minutes." "If you've got the time, how about telling me about the shuttle," said Engle, "I've been kept in the dark about it; but from what I understand, the shuttle builds up a field around the ship, with the silver ball as the center of the field, and this field goes into another dimension called the 'space warp'." "Ah -- it could be described in that manner," Garvin said, smiling a little. "A clear description could not be made without the use of several special kinds of mathematics, but you might say this field in normal space is like a bubble under water. The air bubble seeks its own element, rises rapidly until it emerges into free air -- in this case, the space warp. This transition into the warp is almost instantaneous and the shuttle automatically ceases operation when the warp is fully entered. The shuttle is no longer needed ; the hypothetical bubble no longer exists -- it has found its own element and merged with it." "I know that a light-hour of travel in the warp is supposed to be equivalent to several light-years in normal space," Engle said, "but what about when you want to get back into normal space?" "The original process is simply reversed : the shuttle creates a 'bubble' that cannot exist in the warp and seeks its own element, normal space." "I see. But if the shuttle should -- '" He never completed the question. Dr. Harding strode over, his eyes blue and piercing under the fierce eyebrows as he fixed them on him. He spoke without preamble: "You realize the importance of this test flight with the shuttle, of course? Entirely aside from our personal survival should the Slug cruiser intercept us." "Yes, sir," he answered, feeling the question suggested an even lower opinion of his intelligence than he had thought Harding held. Project Space Warp existed for the purpose of sending the Argosy to Sirius by means of the space warp shuttle and bringing back the Thunderbolt by the same swift method. The Thunderbolt , Earth's first near-to-light-speed interstellar ship, was a huge ship; armed, armored, and invincible. It had been built to meet every conceivable danger that might be encountered in interstellar exploration -- but the danger had come to the solar system from the direction of Capella nine years after the departure of the Thunderbolt . Eight cruisers of the pulpy, ten-foot centipede-like things called Slugs had methodically destroyed the colonies on Mars and Venus and established their own outposts there. Earth's ground defenses had held the enemy at bay beyond the atmosphere for a year but such defense could not be maintained indefinitely. The Thunderbolt was needed quickly and its own drives could not bring it back in less than ten years... "We will go into the warp well beyond the atmosphere," Harding said. "Transition cannot be made within an atmosphere. Since a very moderate normal space velocity of the ship will be transformed into a greater-than-light velocity when in the warp, it is desirable that we make turn-over and decelerate to a very low speed before going into the warp." "Yes, sir," he said. "I was briefed on that part and I'll bring us as near to a halt as that cruiser will permit." "There will be communication between us during the flight," Harding said. "I will give you further instructions when they become necessary." He turned away with an air of dismissal. Engle went to the ladder by the wall. He climbed up it and through the interroom airlock, closing the airlock behind him; the routine safety measure in case any single room was punctured. He went to the control board with a vague resentment gnawing for the first time at his normally placid good nature. So far as Harding was concerned -- and Garvin, too -- he might as well have been an unusually intelligent baboon. Zero hour came and the Argosy lifted until Earth was a tremendous, curving ball below and the stars black sky. The Slug cruiser swung to intercept him within the first minute of flight but it seemed to move with unnatural slowness. It should have been driving in at full speed and it wasn't... "Something's up," Ground Control said. "It's coming in tod slowly." "I see that," he answered. "It must be covering something beyond it, in your radar shadow." It was. When he was almost free of the last traces of atmosphere he saw the other cruiser, far out and hidden from Ground Control's radar by the radar shadow cast by the first one. He reported, giving its position and course as given him by the robot astrogating unit. "We'll have the greatest amount of time if I make turn-over now and decelerate," he finished. The voice of Harding came through the auxiliary speaker: "Do so." The Argosy swung, end for end, and he decelerated. The cruiser behind him increased its speed, making certain it would be in position to cut off any return to Earth. The other cruiser altered its course to intersect the point in space the Argosy would soon occupy, and the Argosy was between the rapidly closing jaws of a trap. He made reports to Ground Control at one-minute intervals. At #:# he said: "Our velocity is approaching zero. We'll be within range of the second cruiser's blasters in two more minutes." Harding spoke again to him : "We'll go into the warp now. Do not alter the deceleration or the course of the ship while we're in the warp." "I won't," he said. There was a faint mutter from the auxiliary speaker as Harding gave some instructions to Garvin. Engle took a last look at the viewscreen ; at blue-green Earth looming large in the center, Orion and Sirius glittering above it and the sun burning bright and yellow on the right. It was a scene he had observed many times before, all very familiar and normal -- The chronometer touched #:# and normalcy vanished. Earth and sun and stars fled away from him, altering in appearance as they went, shrinking, dwindling. The seas and continents of Earth erupted and shook and boiled before Earth faded and disappeared. The sun changed from yellow to green to blue, to a tiny point of bright violet light that the screen and faded and disappeared as Earth had done. Then the viewscreen was black, utterly, completely, dead black. And the communicator that had connected him with Ground Control was silent, without the faintest whisper of background sound or space static. In the silence the voice of Harding as he spoke to Garvin came through the speaker; puzzled, incredulous, almost shocked: "Our velocity couldn't have been that great -- and the sun receded into the ultraviolet!" There was the quick sound of hurrying footsteps then the more distant sound of the computer's keys being operated at a high rate of speed. He wanted to ask what had gone wrong but he knew no one would answer him. And it would be a pointless question -- it was obvious from Harding's tone that he did not know, either. He had an unpleasant feeling that Man's first venture into another dimension had produced catastrophic results. What had caused sun and Earth to disappear so quickly -- and what force had riven and disfigured Earth? Then he realized the significance of Harding's statement about the sun receding into the ultraviolet. If the ship had been traveling at a high velocity away from the sun, the wave length of the sun's light would have been increased in proportion to the speed of the ship. The sun should have disappeared in the longwave infrared end of the spectrum, not the short-wave ultraviolet, With the thought came the explanation of the way the continents and oceans of Earth had quivered and seethed. The shifting of the spectrum range had shortened normally visible rays into invisibly short ultraviolet radiations while at the same time formerly invisible long infrared radiations had been shortened into visible wave lengths. There had been a continuous displacement into and past the ultraviolet and each wave length would have reflected best from a different place -- mountains, valleys, oceans, deserts, warm areas, cool areas, -- and the steady progression into the ultraviolet had revealed each area in quick succession and given the appearance of agitated movement. So there was no catastrophe and everything had a logical explanation. Except how they could have been approaching a sun that he had seen clearly, visibly, racing away from them, "Engle -- " The voice of Harding came through the speaker. "We're going back into normal space to make another observation. I don't know just where we are but we're certain to be far from the cruisers. Don't alter our course or velocity." "Yes, sir," he said. They came out of the warp at #:#. The communicator burped suddenly and the viewscreen came to life; a deep, dull red that brightened quickly. A tiny coal flared up, swelling in size and shifting from red to orange to yellow -- the sun. Earth appeared as a hazy red dot that enlarged and resolved itself into a planet with distorted continents that trembled and changed, to resume their natural shapes and colors. Within a few seconds the sun was shining as ever, Earth loomed large and blue-green before them and the stars of Orion glittered unchanged beyond. Even their position in space was the same -- they had not moved. But the Slug cruisers had. One was very near and from its forward port came the violet haze that always preceded a blaster beam. There was no time to escape -- no chance at all. He spoke into the mike, harsh and urgent: "Into the warp ! There's a blaster beam coming -- move!" There was a silence from below that seemed to last an eternity, then the sound of a switch being slapped hastily. At the same time, the violet haze before the cruiser erupted into blue fire and the blaster beam lanced out at them. It struck somewhere astern. The power output needle swung jerkily as thje generators went out and the emergency batteries took the heavy load of the shuttle's operation. There was a sensation of falling as the ship's artificial gravity units ceased functioning. The auxiliary speaker rattled wordlessly and there was a sound like a hard rush of wind through it, accompanied by quick bumping sounds. Then the speaker was still and there was no sound of any kind as the viewscreen shifted into the ultraviolet and Earth and stars and sun once again raced away and disappeared in the blackness. board informed him the generators were destroyed, the stem section riddled and airless, the emergency batteries damaged and reduced to quarter charge, the shuttle room punctured and airless. And, of course, Harding and Garvin were dead. He felt a surge of futile anger. It had all been unnecessary. If only they had not considered him incompetent to be entrusted with anything more than the ship's operation -- if only they had installed an emergency switch for the shuttle by his control board, there would not have been the two-second delay following his order and they would have been safely in the warp before the blaster beam struck. But they had not trusted him with responsibility and now he was alone in a space warp he did not understand; sole and full responsibility for the shuttle suddenly in his hands. He considered his course of action, then got into a pressure suit. Magnets in the soles of its heavy boots permitted him to walk in the absence of gravity and he went to the interroom airlock with metallically clicking steps. He let himself through the lock and walked down what had been the room's wall, then across to the center of its floor. But for the fact there was no one in the room, it was as he had last seen it. The shuttle, computer, and other equipment stood in their orderly positions with their lighted dials unchanged. Until one looked at the gash ripped in the hull and saw the stains along its edge where the occupants had been hurled through it by the escaping air. He went on to the next room and the next. The damage increased as he proceeded toward the stem. The power generators were sliced into ribbons and the emergency batteries in such condition it seemed a miracle they were functioning at all. The drives had received the greatest damage; they were an unrecognizable mass of wreckage. He made his way back to the shuttle room, there to appraise his circumstances. He reached automatically for a cigarette and stopped when his glove bumped the breast plate of his pressure suit. First, he would have to make the shuttle room livable; get out of the pressure suit. He would have to question the computer and he could not do that with the thick, clumsy gloves on his hands. The job didn't take long. There were repair plates on the ship and a quick-hardening plastic spray. He closed the sternward airlock when he was done and opened the airlock leading to the control room, as well as the locks beyond. Air filled the shuttle room, with only a minor over-all loss of air pressure. He removed the suit, attached a pair of magnetic soles to his shoes so he could operate the keys of the computer without the movements sending him floating away, and went to it. He had never been permitted to touch it before, nor even stand close enough to see what the keyboard looked like. Now, he saw that the alphabetical portion of the keyboard was minor compared with the mathematical portion, many of the symbols strange to him. The operation of an interplanetary ship required a certain knowledge of mathematics, but not the kind used by theoretical physicists. He typed, doubtfully: once in the answer panel and relief came to him like the lifting of a heavy burden. The computer knew as much about the space warp as Harding or anyone else. It was connected with his drive controls and instruments and knew how far, how fast, and in what directions the flight had taken place. It had even been given blueprints of the ship's construction, in case the structure of the ship should affect the ship's performance in the warp, and knew every nut, bolt, plate and dimension in the ship. There was supposed to be a ce tain method of procedure when questioning the computer. "It knows -- but it can't think," Garvin had one said. "It lacks the initiative to correlate data and arrive at conclusions unless the proceedure of correlation is given it in detail." Perhaps he could manage to outline some method of correlation for the computer. The facts of his predicament were simple enough: He was in an unknown medium called "the Space Warp." Something not anticipated occurred when a ship went into the warp and Harding had not yet solved the mystery when he died. The physicists in Observation would be able to find the answer but he could not ask them. The forward movement of the ship was not tranferred with it into the warp and if he emerged into normal space the waiting Slug cruisers would disintegrate him before he spoke three words to Observation. There was a pencil and a tablet of paper by the computer. He used them to calculate the time at which the charge in the damaged batteries would reach a critical low, beyond which the charge would be insufficient to activate the shuttle. The answer was #:#. He would have to go out of the warp at # : # or remain in it forever. He had a great deal less than two hours in which to act. He typed the first question to the computer: The answer appeared on the panel at once; the coordinates of a position more than a light-year toward Ophiuchus. He stared at the answer, feeling it must be an error. But it could not be an error -- the computer did not make mistakes. How, then, could the ship have traveled more than a light-year during its second stay in the warp when it had not moved at all during the first stay? Had some factor of the warp unknown to him entered the picture? As a check he typed another question : The answer was a position lightdays toward Ophiuchus. He typed: impossible. The computer replied : this He recalled the importance of keeping the computer free of all faulty or obscure data and typed quickly: cancel conflicting statement. conflicting statement canceled, it replied. He tried another tack, this ship He thought the computer would proceed to give him some sort of an explanation. Instead, it noncommittally replied : data acknowledged. He typed : explain this discrepancy between space warp It answered: insufficient data to account for discrepancy. He asked, how did you determine our present position? It replied: by triangulation, into the ultraviolet, he objected. Again it answered with the noncommital, data acknowledged. data? he asked. It replied: data insufficient He paused, pondering his next move. Time was speeding by and he was learning nothing of value. He would have to move the ship to some place in the warp where emergence into normal space would not put him under the blasters of the Slug cruisers. He could not know where to move the ship until he knew where the ship was at the present. He did not believe it was in the position given him by the computer, and its original space warp position had certainly not been the one given by the computer. The computer did not have the ability to use its knowledge to explain contradictory data. It had been ordered to compute their space warp position by triangulation of the receding sun and stars and was not at all disturbed by the contradicting shift of the sun into the ultraviolet. Suppose it had been ordered to calculate their position by computations based on the shift of the sun's and stars spectrum into the ultraviolet? He asked it: what is our posiIt gave him the coordinates of a position almost two light-years toward Orion. The triangulation computations had shown the ship to be going backward at many times the speed of light; the spectrum-shift computations showed it to be going forward with approximately the same speed. data acknowledged, it agreed. logical explanation, it answered. It replied with the characteristic single-mindedness: data shows He paused again. He was still getting nowhere while time fled by. How swiftly less than a hundred minutes could pass when they were all a man had left to him... The computer was a genius with the mental initiative of a moronic child. It could find the answer for him but first he would have to take it by the hand and lead it in the right direction. To do that he would have to know more about the warp. He wrote: explain the nature It answered at once: this canThe chronometer read #:#. He typed: data acknowledged, it replied. it answered. this cannot be done, it replied. He wrote, with morbid curiosity: It anwered: give a damn is a He got out of the computer seat and walked about the room restlessly. He passed by the transdimensional viewscreen and communicator and pressed the communicator's signal button. A dial flickered in return, showing his signal was going out, but there was no sound in response. If only he could make contact with the brains in Observation -- west of the sun. He was racing faster than light in two different directions at once and he was sitting motionless under the blasters of two Slug cruisers. Another thought came to him: even if he could move the ship while in the warp, where could he go? He would have to go far beyond the outer limits of the solar system to escape detection by the Slug cruisers. And at that distance the sun would be only a yellow star, incapable of energizing the little solar power units. He would not live long after the last of the power was drained from the batteries and the air regeneration equipment ceased functioning. He would not even dare sleep, toward the last. There were no convection currents in the air of a ship without gravity, and it was imperative that the air be circulated constantly. The air circulation blowers would cease functioning while the ship still contained pure air but he would have to move about continually to breathe that air. Should he lie down to sleep he would smother to death in a carbon dioxide bubble of his own making. If he managed to emerge into normal space at some point just outside Earth's atmosphere, beyond range of the cruisers, his driveless ship would descend as a blazing meteor. If, by some miracle, he could emerge into normal space just a few inches above the spacefield it would be to materialize into space already occupied by air. Such a materialization would be simultaneously fatal to him and to the electronic components of the shuttle and computer. And if he did not move the ship, the Slug cruisers would disintegrate him. He had four hypothetical choices of his way to die, all equally unpleasant. He smiled wanly at his reflection in the bright metal bordering the viewscreen and said, "Brother -- you've had it!" there to brush his fingers across the useless control buttons and look into the viewscreen that revealed only black and limitless Nothing. What was the warp? Surely it must have definite physical laws of some kind. It was difficult to imagine any kind of existence -- even the black nothing of the warp -- as being utterly without rule or reason. If he knew the laws of the warp he might find some means of survival hitherto hidden from him. There was only one way he could learn about the warp. He would have to question the computer and continue questioning it until he learned or until his time was up. He returned to the computer and considered his next question. The computer had calculated their positions from observations of the sun and other stars in front of the ship -- what would similar calculations based on observations of the stars behind the ship reveal? He typed: The answers appeared. They showed the ship to be simultaneously speeding away from Ophiuchus and toward it. He asked: do these two posiyes, it answered. Was the paradox limited to the line of flight? He asked the computer: what The answer appeared on the panel : the ship was racing sideward through the warp in two diametrically opposed directions, but at only one-third the speed with which it was racing forward and backward. So now the ship had four impossible positions and two different speeds. He frowned at the computer, trying to find some clue in the new data. He noticed, absently, that the hand of one of the dials was near zero in the red section of the dial. He had not noticed any of the diaL registering in the danger zone before... He jerked out of his preoccupation with apprehension and typed: It answered: one of my cirHe slammed the master switch to out, the various needles swung to zero, leaving the computer a mindless structure more than ever resembling an overgrown refrigerator. Four minutes more of operation... and he had so many questions to ask before he could hope to learn enough about the warp to know what he should do. He had wasted almost an hour of the computer's limited life, leaving it turned on when he was not using it. If only it had told him... but it was not the nature of a machine to voluntarily give information. Besides, the receding hand of the dial was there for him to see. The computer neither knew nor cared that no one had thought it worthwhile to teach him the rudiments of its operation and maintenance. It was #:#. One hour and one minute left. He put the thought aside and concentrated on the problem of finding tfie key to the paradox. What conceivable set of circumstances would cause receding stars to have a spectrum shift that showed them to be approaching the ship? Or, to rephrase the question, what conceivable set of circumstances would cause approaching stars to appear to dwindle in size? The answer came with startling suddenness and clarity: There was no paradox -- the ship was expanding. He considered the solution, examining it for flaws of logic, and found none. If he and the ship were expanding the wave length of light would diminish in proportion to the increasing size of the retinas of his eyes and the scanner plates of the transdimensional viewscreens: would become shorter and go into the ultraviolet. At the same time, the increasing size of himself and the ship would make the Earth and sun relatively smaller and therefore apparently receding. The same theory explained the two different speeds of the ship : its length was three times its diameter so its longitudinal expansion would proceed at three times the speed of its cross-sectional expansion. Everything checked. How large was the ship now? He made a rough calculation and stared almost unbelievingly at the results. He was a giant, more than a third of a light-year tall, in a ship that was six light-years long and two light-years in diameter. Far Centauri, which had required thirty years to reach in the fastest interplanetary ship, floated seventy-one feet away in the blackness outside the hull. And the sun and Earth were in the room with him, going into the shuttle's silvery focal ball. He would have to ask the computer to make certain his theory was valid. His time was too critically short for him to waste any of it with speculation based on an erroneous theory. He switched on the computer and it lighted up again. He typed rapidly : There was a brief pause as the computer evaluated its data, then it answered with one word: He switched it off again, to squander none of its short period of usefulness until he had decided upon what his further questions should be. At last, he had some grounds for conjecture ; had learned something about the warp the designers of the shuttle had not suspected. Their calculations had been correct when they showed a ship would travel in the warp at many times the normal space speed of light. But somewhere some little factor had been overlooked -- or never found -- and their precise mathematics had not indicated that the travel would be produced by expansion. Nature abhors a vacuum . And the black, empty warp was a vacuum more perfect than any that existed in normal space. In the normal space universe there were there was utter Nothing. Did the physical laws of the warp demand that matter be scattered throughout it, in emulation of its rich neighbor in the adjoining dimension? Was the warp hungry for matter? He rejected the thought as fantasy. There was some explanation that the physicists would eventually find. Perhaps there was a vast sizeratio difference between the two dimensions; perhaps the warp was far larger than the normal space universe and some co-universal law demanded that objects entering it become proportionally larger. None of that aspect of his circumstances, however, was of importance. There was only one prime problem facing him : how to move the ship within less than an hour to some point in the warp where his emergence into normal space would result in neither instant nor days-away death and where he would have the time to try to carry out the responsibility, so suddenly placed in his hands, of delivering the space warp shuttle to the Thun derbolt. The long-range task depended upon his immediate survival. He had to move the ship, and how did a man move a driveless ship? It might not require a very large propulsive force -- perhaps even an oxygen tank would serve as a jet. Except that he had none. He could use part of the air in the ship. Its sudden release should move the ship. There was a sun very near: Alpha Cenjauri. If he had the proper tools, and the time, he could cut a hole in the hull opposite Centauri... but he had neither the took nor the time. , , And what good would it do him if he could emerge into normal space at the desired distance from Centauri? He would be provided with power for the air regenerators by the solar power units but not power sufficient to operate the shuttle. He would breathe, and eat, for a week. Then the small amount of food on the ship would be gone and he would breathe for another four or five weeks. And then he would die of starvation and his driveless ship would continue its slow drift into the sun, taking his bones and the shuttle with it. He would have to go to Sirius and he would have to reach it the first try or never. If he could emerge into normal space at the proper distance from Sirius he would have power from it to operate the communicator. The Thunderbolt would come at once when it received his message and swallow the little Argosy in its enormous hold. The return to Earth would be the swift one through the warp and the Slug cruisers, so bold in pursuit of unarmed interplanetary ships, would quickly cease to exist. At #:# Sirius would be somewhere in or near the bow of the ship. The ship would not have to be moved more than two thirds of its length -- twenty meters. He could do that by releasing part of the air in the shuttle room through the sternward airlock. How much air? He tried to remember long-forgotten formulas. So many cubic feet of air at such and such a pressure when released through an opening of such and such a diameter would exert a propulsive force of... Hell, he didn't know. And not even the computer would be able to tell him because there were so many unknown factors, such as the proportion of the ship's mass lost to the Slug blasters, the irregular shape of the airlock opening, the degree of smoothness of its metal... He made calculations with pencil and paper. He would have to move the ship with extreme precision. A light-hour short of the proper distance put him too far from the sun for it to power the communicator, a light-hour beyond put him in the sun's flaming white heart. One light-hour out of eight point six light-years was approximately one part out of seventy-five thousand. He would have to move the ship with an accuracy of point aught three centimeters -- one hundredth of an inch. One hundredth of an inch! He laid the pencil , back down, almost numbly. He could never open and close an airlock and move a mass of thousands of tons with an accuracy of a hundredth of an inch. The very thought was wildly fantastic. He was already far closer to Sirius than he would be if he tried to get any closer. And that was over eight light-years from it. He looked at the chronometer and saw the hands had already reached #:#... Thirty-three minutes left to him. Sirius was near -- soon it would be in the bow of the ship -- and Sirius was eight point six light-years away. How could he move the ship a certain distance accurate to one hundredth of an inch? He couldn't. The answer was blunt and ugly and irrefutable: he couldn't. He got up and walked across the room, feeling like a man who had in quick succession been condemned. reprieved, recondemned. He had been projected into a situation for which he had had no preliminary training whatever; had been made sole custodian and operator of a computer and a space warp shuttle that he had never before been permitted to touch. He had used the sound but given him to solve the riddle of the paradoxes and learn where he was and where he wanted to go. He had done quite well -- he had solved every problem of his survival and the shuttle's delivery except the last one! He passed by the shuttle and stopped to rest his hand on the bright, silvery focal ball. The solar system would be deep inside the ball; the atoms of the ball larger than Earth, perhaps, and far more impalpable than the thinnest air. The Slug cruisers would be in there, infinitesimally tiny, waiting for him to return... No -- faulty reasoning. The solar system was as it had always been, not diminished in size and not really in the ball. It was only that two different points in two different dimensions coincided in the ball... He saw the answer. He did not have to move the ship to Sirius -- he had only to move the ball! very little time. First, to see if the warp shuttle was portable -- It was. When he unfastened the clamp that held it to the stand it lifted up freely, trailing a heavy cable behind it. He saw it was only a power supply cable, with a plug that would fit one of the sockets in the bow of the ship. He left the shuttle floating in the air, leashed by the cable, and went to the computer. Next, he would have to know if Sirius would be fully in the ship -- He switched the computer on and typed : It gave him the answer a moHe visualized the distance, from his knowledge of the ship's interior, and saw the position would be within the forward spare-parts room. Next, to learn exactly where in that room he should place the shuttle. He could not do so by measuring from the present position of the shuttle. The most precise steel tape would have to be at exactly the right temperature for such a measurement to be neither too short nor too long. He had no such tape, and the distance from the focal ball was only part of the necessary measuring: he would have to measure off a certain distance and a precisely certain angle from the purely imaginary central line of the ship's axis to intersect the original line. Such a measurement would be impossible in die time he had. He considered what would be his last question to the computer. The' hand was touching the zero and his question would have to be worded very clearly and subject to no misinterpretations. There would be no follow-up questions permitted. He began typing: sirius at #:#. consider all It seemed to take it an unduly long time to answer the question and he waited restlessly, unpleasantly aware of the hand touching zero and wondering if the computer's mind was baffled by the question; the mind that thought best in terms of orderly mathematics and could not know or care that measurement by protractor and tape would result in a position fatally far from that described by the neat, rigid figures. Then the answer appeared, beautifully concise: The computer died with an oddly human sigh. Its last act had been to give him the location of Sirius in such a manner that he could accurately position the shuttle's focal ball with the aid of the precision measuring devices in the ship's repair room. He went to the shuttle and picked it up in his arms. It was entirely weightless, and each magnet-clicking step he took toward the bow of the ship brought Sirius almost half a light-year nearer. He squinted against the white glare of Sirius in the viewscreen as he continued his terse report to the Th underbolt's commander: "I have about a week's supply of food. How long will it be until you reach me?" The commander's reply came after the pause caused by the distance involved: "We'll be there within three days. Go ahead and eat hearty. But how did you travel from Earth to Sirius in only two hours? My God, man -- what kind of a drive did that ship have?" "Why, it didn't have any drive from the start," he said. "To get here I" -- he frowned thoughtfully -- "you might say I walked and carried the ship."    It was a terrific theory and it would send Man to the stars. But the two men involved had to buck more than physical laws; and so the project was finished, over, done with. Unless... Corbow's Theory The same problem rocket designers have been struggling with for five years. Nobody's found the answer -- and they never will!" Bronsen Corbow glared at the older man, his lips pressed tightly together to keep from giving voice to the anger mounting inside of him. Mars Kenton was an argumentive old fool, but the company had made him his assistant and nothing could be done about it. "They've known ever since they discovered that interstellar drive," Mars continued, "that they can only make enough Carbolium to send four ships a year to the end of our galaxy and back again. Is it our fault they have to make the blasted stuff instead of mining it out of the ground?" The words ringing in the quiet of the laboratory seemed to pound in Bronsen's ears and he found he could hold his tongue no longer. He leaned toward the older physicist and slammed his hand down on the table. "That's enough, Mars. I happen to be the one in charge here, not you." His quiet voice made clear the anger he felt. "Reed turned the problem over to us. I say we can lick it. Just because my chief assistant is still thinking in terms of ancient history, it's no reason to send back a report from this laboratory saying we can't handle the problem." He ran a trembling hand through his close-cropped hair and swore at himself when he saw Mars noticed the trembling. Why did he have to start shaking every time he got mad? The person he was mad at invariably took the shaking to be fear, and he would always be forced to drive his point home all the harder in order to get the respect he demanded. Mars Kenton sneered. "Mind telling me just how you are going to eliminate interstellar drive from our rocket ships? Or have you cooked up another of your bright ideas to try out at the company's expense?" "I'm fed up with you, Mars!" All control over his temper was gone now and the younger man gave full vent to his anger. His powerful body fairly bristled in his rage and in spite of himself Mars was forced to cringe beneath the assailing roars that followed. "You may be twenty years older than I am; you may have been one of the pioneers in space travel; you may still be a good man if you could forget that the whole world didn't plot that accident that left you with a bad leg -- but you're still taking orders from me. We have some good men in this department, and you can either keep your mouth shut and work with us or you can get out. Interstellar drive isn't the only solution to space travel and the answer to the problem is going to come from this laboratory. Now take your choice!" Mars glared at Bronsen and seethed inwardly but swung back to his work table. His right leg twitched convulsively, forcing him into a stumbling limp and he silently cursed the fate that had brought him to such a lowly existance. Him! Joe Kenton! Member of the first expedition to land on Mars and successfully return to Earth. And what was he now? Just a second rate design consultant working in a laboratory on the moon. His water blue eyes clouded in his flood of self pity. How beautiful it had been out there... all blackness, all majesty, the throbbing power of the rockets, the thrill of unknown adventures in the void. His rickety old heart beat faster with remembering. The scorching desolateness of Mars was something he would never forget. Even now he could see the miles of heatdrenched land, the thick red powder that covered the planet's crust, the stretching reaches of nothing but a barren, dead world. And then -- the accident. Sure, it was just an accident. How could he know that the port lid was going to break its magnetic field and slam down upon him? It had though, and he had returned an honored man, praised for his selfsacrificing adventure, then pitied because he would spend the rest of his life a crippled man. He twisted his thin, blue-veined hands together, those hands that had piloted a glittering rocket through ace, those hands that had sifted rough the sands of an alien world, those hands that now were white and fragile, working over drawings and plans for other ships. Gone were the dreams, and with their going came the bitterness. He felt his anger melting in his own self pity, decided not to brush away the tears that gathered in his eyes and turned to his board, staring at it through blurred vision. "Bong! End of round five. Just wait around a minute folks, next round coming up." Vem Webber peered cautiously around the door as if expecting something to fly at him, then jumped into the room. His youthful face broke into a broad grin as he bowed before the chief designer. "Oh great and noble Mr. Bronsen Corbow. Is it safe for your lowly servant to approach these hallowed halls in answer to your summons? Mine is not to reason why -- but I'd still like to leave here with my head on my shoulders." Bronsen found himself smiling at his young assistant. Vem, although he was twenty-four, had the spirit and air of a teenager and usually succeeded in keeping the lab in a state of high humor. The tenseness of the argument with Mars dispelled itself and Bronsen relaxed. "Get word to the men that we are having a special meeting this afternoon, in the conference room. We're going to blow the lid right off the present concepts of space travel and really give those people out there something that will make their eyes bulge. I'll tell you more about it this afternoon." "Aye, aye, sir!" Vem clicked his heels, gave an exaggerated salute and was gone. Bronsen glanced in returning annoyance at the snort of disgust that issued from Mars' comer. That old fool and his rockets, he thought were things of the past. There was only the future now. New ideas, new methods, new successes. Why couldn't Mars see that? And yet, Bronsen himself felt a tiny pulsing of doubt. He cursed himself for that tinge of selfdistrust, but could do nothing about it. He was brilliant, he was a master of design and he knew space flight as well as he knew the shape, workings and complexities of the pencil he twirled in his hands. But what if he wasn't right? What if his new theory was a flop -- and with it a waste of money, time and human lives? He tore himself from his dismal thoughts with a savage determination and strode into his office. That damned Mars was just getting under his skin, that's all. Listen to him long enough and he'll have you thinking we should all have stayed back in the horse and buggy days. No problems of space flight then, no old beliefs, ancient ideas, stagnant prejudices to worry about then. Not as far as traveling to the stars was concerned, anyway. T points I know you are all familiar with, but that you should keep in mind, starting with the beginning of space travel." Bronsen ran his hand through his hair and looked over the eagerly expectant faces of his staff, considering carefully the points he had to make. "First, there were the Detoriurodriven rockets. Fine ships that opened up the realm of travel in outer space." His voice was firm, stringent with his inner excitement, his faith in his idea. "In fact, it was just such a ship as this' that Joe Kenton, Mars to you folks, was on when they made their first landing on Mars. These ships had their good points and still are excellent over short distances but certainly are of no use for intergalactic flight. They are much too slow, requiring more than a lifetime to make the trip there and back. "Then came the interstellar drive, the method we are now using. This drive, utilizing Carbolium which we have to manufacture, makes full use of space as a medium of travel. There's only one catch. We can make only a certain amount of Carbolium, and the costs of making it are astronomical. However, no matter what the expense, the supply is limited. Still, everything's fine. We use the old rockets for short distances and the interstellar drive for intergalactic trips." He paused a minute to let it sink in. "That is everything was fine. As you know, we have found another planet, remarkably similar to Earth in the Eastrex Galaxy, and have succeeded in setting up a colony there. This presents problems. For one, since we can send only four ships a year to Naver, this new planet, our colonizing is going to be slowed down to a crawl. Also, we will have a mighty hard time trying to get supplies and everything else that a new colony needs to Naver within a reasonable length of time. In other words, what we need is a ship that will be cheap to run, fast enough to get there and get back again and also safe enough to carry passengers and cargo, even in small amounts. You've heard of this problem before; I know you've tried independently to work it out and have not had much luck. I think we might have an answer now. "How many of you have shot a rifle or are familiar with a gun?" The expectant faces had gone blank. What was he leading up to anyhow? Still, a large number of hands cautiously worked their way into the air. "All right. All you have to do right now is forget about space ships and concentrate on a rifle and a bullet." There was beginning to be the muttering and stirring of a confused group of people. Bronsen's muscular hands gripped the table eagerly. They were confused, but they were also interested. "You are familiar with the fields and grooves of a gun barrel," he continued, "and you kpow they are there to give the bullet a spin when it is fired. Now what happens to a bullet when it is fired from a smooth barrel, with no grooves? It is inaccurate, wobbles, has less power and eventually turns end over end. Now, take the grooved rifle barrel. The bullet is given a spin, it has many times the velocity of the other, it has a straight line accuracy due to the spiral motion -- keep these last two points in mind -- and providing the rifle is aimed right in the first place, will hit the target." The group was being split up into two factions, those who leaned forward expectantly once more and those who shook their heads in bafflement. "Now, let's go back again to the old rockets, and also our present ones. They all use the same principle to get off the ground -- blast off with rockets. But let's add a second type of blasting off area, also using rockets, but one that looks like a monstrous rifle barrel, complete to the fields and grooves. We have a launching apparatus that is like a grooved rifle compared to a smooth barreled one. The smooth barrel that we now use, the rockets taking off straight, gives good acceleration but not enough top speed. Our old rockets had that fault and never could get good velocity even when in flight. Our new ones take over with the interstellar drive, but we want to eliminate this last method. The spiral take off though, would give much greater velocity right from the start, would enable the ship to hit outer space with a greater speed than it could attain using the other methods and it would continue on in space at a much faster rate. The lack of friction would keep it from slowing down and if we could hit the speed we want before entering outer space, the ship could go right on at that same rate in space. There wouldn't even be need for rocket power while in actual galactic flight. The initial momentum would carry it through to its destination. The rocket could do all this because this spiral launching would give us more 'muzzle velocity', and in a given time after blast off, the spinning ship would have reached a much greater speed than the regularly fired one. This means operating cost will be confined to blast off, landing and to skirt around any sudden dangers that might arise in space." "We therefore have a ship that has the velocity of the drive and maybe more, without the cost of drive. It has safety since our old rockets proved to be remarkably accident-free and this design would actually be working on almost the same principle as the old rockets, except for the blast off. The difference in outer space would be this. The old ships used rockets throughout the trip to increase their velocity. The new ones will be traveling so fast when they enter outer space, they won't have to use any power because they will already have the velocity needed." He paused to swallow the dryness in his mouth and noticed with pleasure that more than one face was twisted in thought. Good. All they have to do is be given a theory to think about, the time to do that thinking and they'd be on their way. "That's about it for now. I have some ideas of my own for the design of this ship... and it's really surprising when you think how simple it is. But I'll save that for some other time. Right now, I'd want all of you to think about it. It gets top priority. Report back to me with your ideas. I think we can lick this problem and get our bread and butter, Inter Galactic Enterprises, right on top of the pile. Good luck." The meeting broke up amidst frantic discussion, wails of misunderstanding, confusion and quiet self-musings. Bronsen smiled to himself, his face almost boyishly radiant in his pleasure. The seed had been planted. Now all he had to do was give it time to grow and bear fruit. with reverence as he stood with Bronsen looking over the first test rocket as it was slowly wheeled to the launching area. "Boy-o-boy! Look at that beauty! Did you ever see anything like it?" The silver ship lay on its side as it approached the huge tower, but already Vem could see its glistening majesty soaring through the sky. "She was a lot of work, Vem. Let's just keep our fingers crossed. By the way, that design of yours on the rotating cylinder inside the rocket, working independently of the rocket's forced spin, was good. Tough thing to lick, but now the pilot can keep a steady 'up' and 'down' no matter how much the outside of the ship is spinning. Good work." Vern shrugged his shoulders. "Tust call me the Einstein of the #rd century, that's all. We'll all see how well everything works pretty soon now." Bronsen was finding the tension beginning to build up in him. Just a few more hours and his theory would be lauded with success or shattered into the dust. He peered at the rocket, at the tiny black figures of the men that were dwarfed by its size and at the giant, black tube, towering hundreds of feet high, waiting patiently to receive her first charge. The needle-nosed space craft glistened in the early morning sun, her thin beauty tantalizing to the senses of a spaceman. Her lines swept gracefully back across her smooth expanse until they hit the four fin tips sweeping out from the rotating band of the tail piece, the fin tips that would fit into the slowly spiraling grooves of the launching tower. The field and groove construction first suggested by Bronsen had been replaced by lands and grooves when it was found that the fewer grooves gave greater accuracy and better muzzle velocity when tested on the laboratory models. Thus, there were only four fins instead of the originally planned eight. The rocket reached the lowering platform and Bronsen watched in nervous anxiety as the ship was lowered into the ground tail first, then slowly began its upward ascent into the belly of the launcher. He thought of a thousand things that could happen right then, found that none of them were going to and returned to his office. The rocket was safely nestled in the launcher's belly, patiently waiting for the human crew to arrive and give it life. When they gathered about the launching field that afternoon Bronsen found himself sweating in both the heat of the day and the torrid intensity of Mars' insistence that the whole thing was going to be one big flop. "Just one blast from those rockets and we'll all be blown into the next galaxy, without benefit of a space ship. Trying to shoot a # pound rocket as if it were a toy gun. You'll learn one of these days, Gorbow, that the old way was still the best. It got us to Mars and back and if you'd work on that instead of this, it would be good for intergalactic flight too. But no, you've got to have your name up there in print." "Oh, shut up your damned mumbling, Mars!" Bronsen shot the words out savagely. He gave the older man a withering look and turned his attention again to the ship. The men that were to take her up had disappeared inside the expanse of the launching tower and the other figures darted back and forth, making last minute preparations. The minutes began to tick off. Five minutes until blast off. Four minutes. Three minutes. The field was now completely devoid of human figures. Two minutes. One minute. Ten seconds, nine, eight. The launcher looked lonely and terrifying in its greatness and Bronsen tried to wish the rocket up out of her belly by will power alone. Four, three , two, one... The ground trembled as the ear-shattering roar jumped across the lunar landscape. The sound grew louder, sharper, and Bronsen began to think his head would split with the noise. The rockets pitched higher, their scream pierced the air and then the silver nose of the ship edged above the top of the launcher. It pulled further into view, the shimmering silver glinting in the sun and Bronsen clenched his fists in anxiety. Come on baby; show them what you can do. That's it baby, keep right on coming. Come on girl! The ship rose clear of the launcher, the distance making it look as if it were shot straight out, but Bronsen knew the steadily spinning hull was heading right. Suddenly he noticed it. Something was wrong! The ship wasn't acting right. What was it? His eyes tried to leap from his head to get closer to the rising needle and then he saw it. It was shaking. The whole ship was trembling as if in human terror. He watched the tremors pass from the nose to the tail, each one more violent than the last, until the whole ship was wracked with a shaking like palsy. Why? It had worked so beautifully with the experimental models. What was causing it? The bow of the ship was now visibly shaking, the tremors becoming more savage and then the nose began to dip. With a final shudder of resignation, the rocket pitched over and began its screaming descent. Bronsen watched the plunging ship, felt his heart grab in pain in his chest and stumbled back from the observation window unable to watch any at once slammed into the unyielding lunar plain. In his mind's eye he could see the twisted, exploding mass of metal and the thought sickened him. The others ran from the room, heading for the wrecked ship. Broasen watched them with dull eyes and made no attempt to follow. What could they do for the four men that had gone to their deaths in his mad creation? What could that now lay a twisted heap of rubble? He turned to drag his defeated body back to the lab, to twist and mull in his mind what had happened, and found himself looking into the glaring eyes of "I told you, didn't I, Mr. Corbow?" Bronsen covered his ears so that he wouldn't hear. He screamed, "Shut up! Shut up before I slam you one." Mars spat in disgust. "Four nice guys in that ship, too. Knew 'em, didn't you?" Bronsen's hammer-hard first smashed into Mars' mouth and the old man was slammed against the wall before falling in a crumpled heap on the floor. He sat there, the blood oozing from his mouth as he stared at the retreating back of the man he never thought would have enough nerve to really hit him. Now he was sorry he had said anything and the self pity welled up within him. He really didn't mean half of what he always managed to spit out. What made him do it? He wiped the blood from his mouth and pulled himself to his feet. down into the soft contours of the chair, eyeing Hanson Reed with a tortured soul. The president of Inter Galactic Enterprises glared at him from the other side of the desk, every inch of his paunchy frame the body of an outraged executive. He chewed violently on the black cigar in his mouth and waited impatiently for Bronsen to explain. Bronsen spread his hands helplessly. "I don't know Reed. I just don't know." His shoulders heaved in a sigh of dejection. "Every single person in the moon lab has been looking for an answer and we still can't find out why the ship crashed. We've tested the laboratory models over and over again. We've gone over every little detail and have nothing but a blank to show for it." Reed chewed more savagely at the end of his cold cigar. "We spent development and all we have to show for it is a pile of scrap metal and four corpses scattered over the lunar landscape. There's got to be some explanation." that an accident like this would happen," Bronsen countered desperately. "It's just coincidence that it happened on the first model." "Coincidence!" Mars' voice was guttural with contempt. "I told you from the start it wasn't practical. I knew..." "All right, Mars," Reed interrupted. "You were project design engineer, right?" Mars nodded in agreement. "Was there anything wrong with the design of the ship, any reason why it probably wouldn't have worked, from a design stand-point?" "No," he answered reluctantly. "Not that I could see. I just knew from the start it wasn't going to work. I told Bronsen that, lots of times, but he just isn't the type to take advice." Bronsen roared and leaped to his feet. "You old fool," he bellowed. "Technically, theoretically and mechanically, there wasn't one indication that it wasn't going to be a completely successful launching procedure. You know that as well as anyone! Ask the men around you. They handled the final application, the mechanics, the construction, the blast off. Ask any one of them. Every single one of them will tell you the same thing. There was no reason why the ship should have crashed! Every item had been checked, double checked and re-checked again. The instruments indicated everything was functioning perfectly at blast off. If you didn't have such a twisted inverted opinion of everything..." Mars leaned forward, his body now trembling, "Don't you go calling me names, you swell-headed pup!" Reed pounded his desk violently. "Mars! Bronsen! he shouted impatiently. "This is hardly the time for name-calling and airing personal gripes. We're here to find a good reason for spending more money on this project. We're not children in a schoolyard, arguing over a piece of candy, although that's exactly what it's beginning to sound like. Frankly, I'm of the opinion that with so much internal fighting going on, nothing could possibly come of spending more. It would be a waste of both finances nd time." Bronsen slowly sat down again, his trembling hands clenched into tight fists. "That's one item you don't have to worry about," he growled. "Kenton is completely finished as far as I'm concerned. He's out. Fired." Mars' face fell in shocked surprise. Reed tore the cigar from his mouth and glared at Bronsen. "No one is being fired, Bronsen. You've been a good leader, in my opinion, as well as a friend, but I do the firing around here." Bronsen glowered and reddened under the unexpected rebuttal but said nothing. "You are young yet," Reed continued. "You've got brains, imagination, leadership and ability. Wouldn't be where you are if you didn't. There's just one thing lacking, and Mars is the one that has it. Experience. And with that experience goes well-used caution. You've got the go-ahead, but he has the wisdom. Temperance and drive. That's Mars and you. You've got each other. Why don't you just learn how to work with and use each other?" Bronsen remained in baleful silence. Mars glared at the younger man and sneered contemptuously. "That young pup never will know what the word caution means. He's so eager to get his name up..." Bronsen rose to his feet, his grey eyes flashing in hate. Reed slammed his cigar into the ashtray and threw up his hands. "That's it! It's the last straw! I'm through playing referee for two snarling dogs. The project is closed, finished! If and when some body can come up with a decent reason why it should be opened again, we'll consider it then. Until that time, consider the project non-existent and return to your regular jobs. And cut out the bickering and fighting -- or you are both fired!" He pulled out a fresh cigar, bit into it in disgust and dismissed the meeting by returning to the papers on his desk. Bronsen felt the anger boiling over within him and suppressed the desire to hand in his resignation on the spot. He looked for Mars and saw his thin frame out the door. He wearily passed a hand over his eyes and left the room. ance at Vem's whistling and silently wished the young assistant would get out of the room and let him brood in peace. He chewed the end of his pencil methodically and savagely, his features blushing pink with anger as he remembered the tirade of words exchanged with Bronsen a week ago. "Stupid, insolent, day-dreaming pup," he snarled half aloud. Vem stopped in mid-step, eyeing him in surprise. "Huh?" he said. "Did you say something to me?" Mars grimaced. "No. I was just talking to myself." Vem grinned widely. "That's good. I'd sure hate to have anybody think those words were a description of me. Good old Vem, that's me. Combination office boy, slave, master of ceremonies and soothing balm for ruffled egos. That's my description of me. Master of all trades, Jack of none. Of course, I can't say what others think." "You don't make much sense," Mars growled thickly, biting again into the pencil. "Neither do you," Vem countered quickly. "But then again, what man does to a struggling young genius like myself?" "Oh dry up," came the reply. "And take that drawing table into the new drafter's room." "Oh, sure. You only need about three men to move that monster but..." He left the sentence unfinished and dragged the table from the wall. Mars smiled sympathetically, shook his head, and pointed to his bad leg when Vern indicated he could use some help. "Such is the life of a slave," the younger man sighed and hoisting the clumsy article, headed for the door. "Look out!" Mars suddenly yelled and jumped forward to catch a falling rocket model as the table edge glanced off it. Vem yelped in surprise, jolted backward and fell against the wall, the heavy board crashing down on his foot. "My God, Vern. Your foot..." The other grinned, withdrew his foot, from beneath the board and pulled down his sock. "Not this baby," he flipped. "I've got castiron insurance. It's plastic from the ankle down, see?" Mars stared in shock at the artificial limb and could think of noth"Got it in cadet school," Vein explained and then answered the question in Mars' eyes. "I was training to be a space pilot myself. Some fellows and I decided to celebrate our graduation, got drunk and ended up in a wreck. They put me together real good, even taught me how to use the foot so no one would ever know it wasn't the real thing. It washed me out as far as the Space Corps was concerned though. I drowned my sorrows in alcohol for a couple weeks, told myself I was going to hell with myself and then decided to put what I did know to work. That's how I joined up with this outfit. Now I sit back and design the rockets my classmates have to worry about flying... Enough of this chatter... got to get busy. See you." Mars turned thoughtfully back to his desk. "That kid's got only one foot," he mused soberly. He looked down at his own injured leg and savagely kicked it against the wall. "Your leg. Your poor, crippled leg... what a fine crutch it has been," he bitterly reproached himself. "It proves you were one of the first in space, and you won't let people forget it. You're a jealous old man. You're afraid to have someone else do what you no longer can do. You want things to stay the way they were when you got hurt, so no one else can live your dream. If time stood still, there would be no trips to new planets, no new discoveries and Mars Kenton would still be the hero of his dream." He tried to revolt, to denounce the self-accusations. "What about Bronsen Corbow?" he asked. "Does that explain why I've fought him so hard?" His slowly growing conscience laughed at him. "But it does. Bronsen ignores your crutch, your proof that the old way worked the best. He's concerned with the future, the future you never want to come." He buried his grey-thatched head in his hands and felt the weariness in his bones. His thoughts returned to the unsuccessful launching. "But it was a crazy idea," he argued weakly. "It would never have worked anyway." It was a poor defense, one that faltered and failed when he finally admitted the truth : He was a jealous, bitter man, fighting anonymity. Once more he found himself mulling over the rocket launching, probing for support to his initial decision that it wouldn't work, searching for some point to substantiate his claim. But was he really right in that decision? Had he let his hate-ridden heart rule his reasoning mind? He waded back to the beginning of Bronsen's theory. Bullets... the test models were the bullets. Shells... the huge rocket itself was a shell compared to the bullets. Shells have an ojive, bourrelet, rotating band, but bullets are different. How? He stopped. He reviewed the parts in his mind, then suddenly lurched to the files and pu'led out the rocket plans. He compared the ship's construction bit by bit with a shell, his mind working quickly, accurately, with a new enthusiasm... Hours later he leaned back from his drawing table and his voice rumbled out into the quiet reaches of the empty room. "Men will fly to the stars like a bullet," he prophesized. "Because I know why the rocket crashed." It was dark but the light in Bronsen's office was still on. Mars pulled himself erect and turned toward Bronsen's room, then faltered. "I could just forget it," he mused. "Then the idea would be filed away. But someday..." He could not do it. The excitement was beginning to mount inside of him, pushing him forward. He took a deep breath and with a decisive shrug drew back his shoulders, standing straighter and taller than he had in fifteen long years. He strode from the room and headed down the hall. Bronsen heard the door behind him open and close softly. He glanced up and saw who it was and returned, scowling, to his work. When Mars did not leave, he looked up again, curiosity stirring within him at the expression in the older man's face. "Well?" It wasn't really a question, nor an inflection denoting that he wanted to hear what Mars had to say. It was more of a compromise between physically throwing him out and grudgingly listening to what he had to say. "I've got it, I know what happened to the ship," Mars announced quietly. "I knew it when I saw it come out of the launcher but I couldn't explain it." Bronsen returned to his papers with a snort and Mars pleaded, "I'm sorry about all those things I said. For God's sake. Listen to me!" The tortured pleading in the man's voice made Bronsen put down the papers in surprise. "The models worked," Mars plunged ahead. "Sure they did. But because they were small... so much smaller than the real ship... there was no trouble and they worked perfectly. The trouble reveals itself only as the projectile gets larger. The nose, Bronsen. A nose band. Don't you see what I'm trying to say?" The younger man stared in silence at the pleading ex-space pilot, before the words began to penetrate his whirling thoughts. He forgot the crash of the ship; he forgot the feel of hard teeth splitting the skin across his knuckles; he forgot the animosity that existed between them. His mind could focus on nothing but what Mars was trying to say. "The nose of the ship is long. The only guides were on the tail at the rotating band. Think of shells. Bourrelets. The big shells have bourrelets... bands around the nose that dig into the grooves and steady the front of the shell. The ship... its front began trembling because there was nothing to guide the nose in a steady path. The more velocity the rocket had, the worse the trembling became until it threw the whole ship out of control. Don't you see? That's all that was wrong with it! It would have been perfect if it had had guide wings on the bourrelet. The guide pieces could be withdrawn when the ship is launched... but they would have to be there in order to get it launched. I'm right, you know I am! That's your answer. That was the only part wrong with it!" The enormity of Mars' words left Bronsen speechless. He looked at the suddenly joyous man before him and saw the old bitterness replaced by the rapture of his discovery. Yes, that was what had been wrong. It was the solution... the one tiny piece that made the puzzle into an understandable picture. He paused a moment, as if trying to make a great decision, then grabbed the older man by the arm. "Come on! Let's get it down on paper!" the belly of the launching tower, her needle-like body quiet, waiting, her control panels flashing signals and instructions to her masters, her circuits buzzing with the tenseness of the seconds before blast off. The steady counting drummed through her wires, tripped relays, and her masters flipped the switches, pressed the buttons and pulled the levers that readied her for her maiden flight. Eight seconds, seven seconds. Six seconds, five, four. The switch was jerked upward and she felt the power beginning to move in her vitals. Three, two, one! The driver button slammed home, her rockets roared out in ferocious birth, snarling, roaring, growing with each passing second. She settled back upon her rockets as if in protest at their screaming growth, then was forced to give ground and the ship moved up the shaft. Her rotating band and bourrelet fins dug deep into the spiraling grooves, her body began to turn... slowly, so slowly. Then she suddenly leaped forward, her hull whirling upward; the shaft raced by in dizzy swiftness, her rockets roared louder and she raised her spinning body further. She was free! Her body hurtled up and up, her needle nose straight and true, her velocity leaping forward... "Off rockets! Set up emergency interstellar drive for instant activation if needed. Signal in scanning screens. Activate force field and take a breather boys. We're on our way and the blast off was perfect." The pilot's mechanical sounding voice droned through the speaker in the moon-bound observation room and simultaneously the air was ruffled by the deep exhale of relief, the rustle of slowly relaxing bodies strung tight with the hopeful tenseness of the blast off. Mars gazed up at the disappearing silver streak, his blue eyes intent, glistening with pride and excitement. "I never thought I'd see the day," he breathed. "Look at her, she's going straight and true. She's the most beautiful thing I ever saw." Bronsen' s face relaxed into a happy grin as the gleaming rocket hurtled up out of sight. He glanced at Mars and gave him a companionable smile. "Even more beautiful than Mars (Continued on page #) The invaders were going to make galactic history. Fate made it a comedy of errors. mitted to himself that he was uneasy. Arching his thorax, he unrolled his antennae slowly in a lazy gesture he hoped would conceal the unseemly nervousness he felt now that the ship had swung into an orbit around the strange planet. When a commander briefs his officers, he must radiate confidence and calm. "Companions, an historic moment has arrived , # he began pompously, his antennae moving in the deliberate, stylized movements of the Court language. "Below us lies the verdant expanse of the third planet, green gem of the heavens . # At this, several of his subordinates turned a rather puzzled yellow around their head orifices, obviously unable to understand a gesture of what he was saying. Only the second-in-command seemed unconcerned; he knew from long experience that his commander would revert to common vernacular when he had finished the usual ceremonial preamble. Zurg did so, noting the relieved hues of his officers as he continued : "As you all know, our scouts have reconnoitered this world on several occasions. But now the time has arrived to make an actual landing. In fact, companions, we are the vanguard of an invasion . # Pausing to let this register, he was pleased to see that none of the officers seemed to be suppressing thwirms. If any, thing, they were calmer than he was. "Not a great deal is known about the inhabitants of the planet, but the dominant form of life, strangely enough, is mammalian, and possesses some intelligence. Her Majesty desires conquest without undue destruction. As the Queen wills, her servants shall act." All dipped their antennae at this formula, and watched in attentive hues as the commander went on to explain that due to the high percentage of oxygen in the atmosphere, special coverings would have to be worn. They would filter the air before it reached the ventral tracheae, and leaving the head exposed, would shield all the rest of the body. A bit clumsy, the commander admitted, but absolutely essential. "Now as to our behavior toward the natives -- previous experience with mammalian life-types shows that they are susceptible to panic and fear when confronted with something totally strange, so we will use tactics which basically are very simple. First, we will land near a native settlement. When we march into the area, our alien appearance will stun the natives. Our detachment of all-range telepathic sensitives will notify us when the state of shock has set in, then our attack support will open up with full-scale mental assault, and keep the creatures paralyzed while we seize the area before a defense can be organized. Then the Grand Fleet will proceed here at top speed." "Remember that in this, as in all operations where the powers of the collective mind are used, we must first trigger the enemy's reaction by physical means, therefore nothing can be done until we know that they are in the needed state of shock. Now are there any questions?" How strange actually, mused the commander as he returned to his cubicle, that a race like his own, so gifted at pure mental contact with other life-forms, should still use signals and colorations to communicate among themselves. The chafed spot on his left antenna was paining again after the exercise of the brie ing. The report had said that these mammalians were believed to converse through some kind of atmospheric vibrations... Odd too, that mental warfare, refined and developed though it was, could still only be used against minds agitated by a specific physical stimulus. And that physical stimulus had to be provided by the invaders appearing on the scene, and if necessary performing the Dra, a series of dances and contortions so repulsive to most lifeforms that all thinking would fade into panic. Having once thwirmed himself at a performance of the Dra, he hoped it wouldn't be necessary... his musings were interrupted as the ship's lights flickered to orange, signalling hands to stations for planetfall. Leaving the con of the ship to his second-in-command, he shut himself in his cubicle and made preparations to be miserably sick, as he always was during deceleration. Stroking the chafed spot on his antenna with the smooth edge of his left forearm's prehensile claw, Zurg raised his medicine kit in his secondary tentacles and snapped off the heavy lead seal with his jagged incisor mandibles. I wonder, he speculated, why alien races always find us so frightening... high in the sky, but only a few filtered beams penetrated to the sheltered copse where the slate-colored ship lay partially concealed by artfully placed vines and underbrush. Drawn up in three ranks beside the ship, only their heads protruding from the loose-fitting coveralls, stood the detail picked to make the entry into the native settlement. Zurg led them out through the underbrush barrier they had thrown up the night before, and they emerged onto a little-traveled dirt road leading off across the fields toward a cluster of buildings that marked the edge of town. No creatures appeared as the invading column lumbered along. As they neared the edge of the settlement, Zurg, his antennae drooping slightly from the unusual heat, turned to remind the others: "Remember, the mental assault won't begin until we are well into the area and shock reaction is effected, so stay in formation until I order otherwise." There were still no natives in sight on the small side street by which they entered town; but as they turned a corner and swung on to the broad central thoroughfare, the commander saw that the street was clogged with natives, a great the street in the same direction as his column, about a hundred yards ahead. For a moment they didn't appear to notice the newcomers, but soon a growing number had turned and were gesturing excitedly to each other, pointing at the approaching troop. Watching them anxiously, Zurg saw no evidence of panic. The column kept moving, and the crowd began parting to let them pass through. Some darted forward as though to get a closer look at the strangers. The commander fought off a thwirm as he realized the crowd was now all around them, pressing in more closely on every side. The atmosphere itself seemed to vibrate strangely, and looking around, he saw that the creatures were opening small head orifices and striking the ends of their forward limbs together. Were they communicating -- or was it something else? It was surely not panic. Feeling increasingly dizzy from the heat and vibrations, he glanced anxiously over his followers, and saw at once that they were more upset than he. Colors were flushing their faces in meaningless successions. One or two seemed to be staggering. The shock threshold of these beings has been horribly underestimated, thought Zurg desperately. Only one thing left to do -- turning again, he signalled the detail to begin the Dra. Perhaps that would overcome this incomprehen sible counterattack... "I tell you Charlie, you've got to discipline that gang! They didn't show up on time, they didn't complete the route, they put on a public ritual that wasn't scheduled, apparently stealing the entire show -- stupid crowd yelled themselves hoarse. Then they all reeled off into a side street. They must have been drunk to a man -- I understand about half of them had to be carried! And when I confronted Andy Sharpe, he swore up and down that they weren't out of their hotel that morning. All sleeping off that spree they had the night before. He actually had the nerve to say, # I don't know who those boys were that you claim were a block behind the end of the parade, but they weren't our boys.' " Charlie Dils, new Commander of Legion, leaned back in his chair car seat and blew a cloud of cigar smoke toward the ceiling. "Maybe they were men from Mars," he grinned. Then, remembering his dignity, he sobered abruptly. "Anyway, one bunch looks about the same as another, once they get their masks on -- good Lord, it was a hot day for masks -- but it certainly made the parade more impressive. People are still talking about it. We're even getting credit for having a flying saucer. Some farmer out at the edge of town claims he saw one take off after the parade last night. Says it was going west like a bat out of hell. "If we can get that kind of publicity, Frank, I wouldn't worry about Andy and the boys. I'll write him a letter. It was a great convention -- let's let it go at that."    (Continued from page #) that day? Or the old rockets?" Mars looked slightly embarrassed and shuffled his legs into a more comfortable position. "Aw hell," he said awkwardly. "Can't you forget an old fool's ramblings? We just watched a rocket launched that's going to open up a whole new era in space travel. It was a perfect blast off and we know it'll be a perfect trip and landing. Bronsen thoughtfully nodded his head, his grey eyes dancing. "Tell you what," Mars continued. "I've got a bottle that I've been saving for about fifteen years. Got it when we got back from that first trip and never opened it. Bronsen grinned and gave the old man's thin shoulder a hearty slap. "Let's get that drink!"    Greatest Selection of Puzzles Ever for Only # T HE largest, most varied and interesting selection of puzzles, word games, math games, quizzes and brain teasers ever published at the price! Hundreds of exciting ways to test your wits and talents! Months and months of fun and entertainment! Puts pep into parties. Order today! Send only CO., Inc. Kingston, N. Y. Ill ( Continued from page # ) The Staff will be after me" Kane glanced at the elevator, then they ran back toward the saucer. "You'll have to pilot this thing," Kane said. "It's a little crowded up there for me." She started the motor and the saucer lifted abruptly. "The terminal at La Guardia?" she said. "No. The ship's at least two miles from the Terminal. We'll go directly to the ship." He hesitated. "The only thing is -- it isn't due to blast out of here until the #th." "That doesn't matter," she said. "Why doesn't it? We're flaunting the law. They're after us. They won't let us just hide away on that ship until the #th." "They?" He stared at her. "You said yourself we had to hurry, because the Staff -- " "But don't you see, there's no one to stop us now. The Staff at Sunny Hills could have, but here there isn't any Staff. There's none at the ship either, is there?" "No." "Well then, we'll just wait on the ship until -- we go to the Moon." "But you were afraid, Lucie. You talked about undergrounds, and how it was impossible -- " She touched his arm and then took hold of his hand. "You don't understand I guess. Maybe you never will." "Understand what?" "What it is to try to get away, be alone, be by yourself, when you can't. When no matter what you do you're with the Group, night and day, even in your dreams. You knew it for a while, but imagine it for years, not days. There's no place to hide. Wherever you go the Group goes with you. That's why I said you couldn't get away -- " "Then there isn't any law to prevent us from going to the Moon?" "Only the law of the majority, of Public Opinion," she said. "But you can't stay here and fight it, not for very long. Finally you have to give in to it. You become what they are or go mad. And there are Groups even for them." The saucer dropped down to the fog draped earth and they were walking toward the pits where the Moonship waited. It looked like such a wonderful world, he thought. Everyone happy, everyone smiling all the time. No wars. No externalized authority. The Manufacturers of consent. A quasi-totalitarian society in which means of communication had largely replaced force as the apparatus of compulsion. Communication, fear, insecurity. In his isolation and insecurity, man clung to his Group, to the majority, the accepted opinions. The majority did not need to force a man now. No need for police, or armies. They convinced him. The only way you could keep from being convinced was to get out. The hatch slid open. "Welcome aboard," the Captain said.    Cities may soon give up trying to control traffic by lights and other conventional means and turn to directing individual automobiles as traffic congestion mounts. Such individual directing may be done, for example, by directly controlling the movements of each car, or by a broadcast that informs every driver of traffic conditions for blocks around him. Before this happens, engineers expect to use electronic brains in all major cities to solve complex traffic snarls. Each large city will have its own digital computer and a team of operators who will be able to work out the best method of control -- through use of mathematical models -- without disrupting actual traffic flow. Tomorrow's atomic airliners will be locomotives of the sky, according to a recent report delivered to the Society of Automotive engineers. The "engine" will be a giant atomicpowered fuel-plane. The coaches will be smaller ships coupled to the locomotive in mid-air. The airborne nuclear train would fly its course, with commercial airliners "unhooking" on arrival at their terminal airport, where other passenger aircraft would "latch on" for new airports of call. With such a set-up, indefinite shuttle service could be maintained, limited only by the crew's endurance. Airlines and freighters, thus relieved of carrying full fuel loads, could haul larger passenger and pay loads. The tow plane concept also eliminates the problem of shielding passengers and cargo from radiation emitted by a nuclear engine. The day is coming when children will drink milk shakes or swallow capsules of live polio virus safely and get protection against the disease. Tests with # non-immune persons have shown that all developed antibodies against the disease. None has gotten polio or suffered any ill-effects that could be laid to swallowing the viruses. Capsules are considered the best way to give the live virus for vaccination. With these, the mouth and throat are bypassed so that only the lower end of the digestive tract can be a source of contagion. Simple personal hygiene may completely prevent the transmission of the viruses from this source. "The telephone is singing" may outmode the familiar phrase "the telephone is ringing." The new transistorized device installed in experimental phones sounds like an oboe or clarinet giving forth a string of staccato notes of the same pitch. The tone can be varied in pitch to signal party-line customers or please private line customers. The range is from A sharp above middle C to two C's above middle C. Experiments have shown that the musical tone can be heard over much greater distances than the regular bell, and can also be distinguished from doorbells, alarm clocks and fire alarms. Another advantage is that it is an aid to the hard of hearing because it employs more energy in the middle frequency range, where hearing is most often impaired. The overage man # years from now will probably have a coffee colored skin, straight or slightly wavy black hair, dark eyes and will be about the same height he is now. And, according to a professor of zoology at the University of Cincinnati, in # years man will still be recognizable as human; although slow evolutionary trends will have given him an almost complete physical change. People of that time will have larger brains, more intelligence, larger heads, smaller jaws, fewer teeth, a lower rate of development and a longer life. A person living then will probably not have to worry about such things as appendicitis or tonsilitis, because appendix and tonsils will cease to exist. Interplanetary missiles zooming around Venus and Mars and landing on the moon are already being planned by leading rocket engineers and scientists. At a recent symposium on the earth satellites, plans were made for a three stage rocket would be needed to place # pounds of scientific instruments on the moon. Remote control would be used to land the satellite, and television would provide the wherewithal to study lunar conditions. Spring flower festivals may soon take place on schedule, despite cold seasons. Experiments controlling the time of budding by chemical methods have had wide success. Horticulturists now can delay the fall of cherry blossoms by spraying them with a solution of naphthalene acetic acid when the first petals are out. The treatment keeps the blossoms on the trees one week longer than would be expected. The same solution is also used to delay the drop of fruit from the trees at harvest time. On the other hand, if the chemical is sprayed on fruit trees earlier in the season, it will cause the fruit to drop early. In seeking ways to trap solar energy to power our mechanical civilization, the world may again see great population shifts similar to those that occurred as mankind settled in one new area after another. With the ingenuity already developed by experience in building machines to use fossil fuels, and whetted by recent application of nuclear energy to producing useful power, mankind will probably solve problems inherent in use of solar energy before our heritage of fossil fuels run out. As soon as sunshine-using devices become at all practical, ancient semi-tropical river valleys, where civilization first began, will probably see a new spurt of immigration by gadget-minded people. A chemical rain repellent that elinu inates mechanical windshield wipers will soon be on the market. Designed for high speed aircraft the repellent is made of silicones and a combination of natural and synthetic waxes. The chemical rain protector sets up a hard coating on the window pane that makes rain roll off like heavy beads of mercury. Spacemen may someday find that the clouds astronomers observe on Mars are formed by volcanoes. A new theory recently advanced also suggests that the dark areas we know as canals may be drifts of volcanic ash resulting from fall-out in the pattern of the prevailing martian winds. Discovery that, on two occasions # years apart, clouds appeared in the same regions means they must have been produced mechanically or at least on a fixed location on the planet's surface. Mushrooms may soon become part of the staple diet, one which doesn't impinge on Man's natural resources. Scientists have found a way to grow the fungus in sawdust so that they can become a year round crop. Using a ton of sawdust with a small amount of oatmeal researchers were able to grow # pounds of mushrooms in two weeks. This sawdust grown crop is also important because the mushrooms so produced can be grown at room temperatures. This means the elimination of seasonal crops and special caves or vaults for mushroom growing. The world's largest chain radar tracking system, capable of checking supersonic rockets and missiles, will soon be completed. The chain of #I radar installations on eight islands have an accuracy within two hundredths of a degree. They lock on a missile the instant it is fired and continuously track its position, course, velocity and accelerations without delay or interruption until the missile hits the target or is itself destroyed. People may someday be lining up for TB shots much as they now do for smallpox, polio, etc. Researchers have come up with a new vaccine which is excellent protection in mice, and uses non-living particles of tuberculosis germs, rather than live germ vaccine. In this ground up in solution and then spun in a centrifuge to separate and remove the larger particles. Dentists may soon be able to transplant teeth the way cornea transplants are done now. Recent advances in dental surgery of this type have shown that, after several years, such a transplanted tooth grows to full size, roots lengthen properly and the tooth lines up with surrounding teeth. The transplant also shows a response to heat and cold, similar to that of other teeth in the patient's mouth. If test trials work out properly, diabetics may soon be taking pills instead of insulin injections The pills, derived from a sulfa drug, show a significantly high response when used in certain cases, ranging from a return to normal to a # reduction in insulin requirements. (Continued from page #) ( Continued from page #I ) party, so they were unable to hear Captain Powers shouting frantically into his microphone and getting no answer. It was just after sunset, and Biggs was looking into the west. "We ought to see it now, but it ain't there," commented Biggs. "What ain't there?" demanded Golden. "Mercury," said Biggs, who prided himself on being an amateur astronomer. "I reckon you can't see it from Mars without a telescope. Too close to the sun." He chuckled. "If there are any Martians," he added, "I reckon they think they live on the third planet. That's funny, ain't it?"    # fantasy and sciencefiction books and back-issue magazines at # to # under what they've cost you before, here or anywhere, Shannon Rd., R.D. #, Box #K Verona, Pennsylvania so complicated that we'll never have a complete science of it. All we'll ever be able to do mathematically is predict and guide the broad trends. But those trends are dividual people and incidents. To pervert an old saying, in government it is necessary to be able to see the trees for the forest. It takes an artist to know how and when to use the equations, and how to supplement them with his own intuitive common sense. It takes not only a technician, but a poet to write a report which will really let me know what's going on." He raised his eyes again and said mildly: "It's not your fault that you are neither an artist nor a poet. I take it you wish to remain in the Service?" "Yes, sir." Randos was not a quitter. "Very well. I'm assigning you to a chief technicianship in my own evaluation center. Consider it a promotion, a reward for honest effort... at least, it's a higher rank and salary. You may go." Kri thought he heard a gasp of relief, but returned to his papers. One might as well face it, you can't kick a favorite nephew anywhere but upstairs. The fellow might even make a good technical boss. As for this planet called Earth, maybe the new man could salvage it. If not, well, it was only one planet.    Dear Mr. Quinn: I have just finished reading the June issue of Hue and Cry, and my sense of fair play compels me to express my surprise at the readiness of people to condemn or censure. I am referring to Stuart Anderson's letter complaining about an error in " Avoidance Situation". According to his argument, the velocity c # assumes various values depending on the original units used in stating the value of c. He uses a lot of large figures in his "proof" involving many powers of ten. All that he has succeeded in doing is confusing himself and hide the basic fallacy of his argument. The proof that he's wrong lies in the mathematical fact that equals remain equals as long as the same factors are applied to each. Let us select a foot as common measurement, and we shall define a foot as a certain fraction of a lightsecond so that any measurement system can be converted to feet. Thus a square yard per second becomes # feet per second as a numerical value only . Now bring on your metric or Chinese units or Martian units or any other measurement of velocity. Reduce the measurement to Terran feet per Terran second and then square the numerical value only to obtain a numerical value for velocity squared. -- Leslie Fogal North Bay, Ontario Dear Sir : Letter writing is not my habit, but in the June issue of Hue and Cry one of your correspondents "goofed" in his letter concerning the math in "Avoidance Situation". Neglecting that a velocity in excess of c cannot be obtained we can write c # # x # # cm # sec # and consider only the magnitude of the number. The writer of the letter published in June went on to state that the value of c # depends on the units used -- I say he should read a text on elementary mathematics before he makes such a statement. He states c # cgs. does not equal c # fps, but he forgot to convert properly. He said, and I quote in part: "c# x # # cmsec, c #  # x # # cmsec; for c # x # # milessec, c # -- # x # # miles sec, which is the same as # # x # # cmsec." Now I say, and I will spell it out : c# x # # cmsec, c # # x # # cm # sec # c # x # # milessec, c # # x # # miles # sec # and since I mile #  sec #  ( # X # X # #) # sec # # x Ft. in # # x (# x # x #) # # x # # cm #  sec # , and the value of c does not depend on units here or elsewhere. Units are not arbitrary, but chosen for convenience. I was shocked to say the least. -- Gerald Ouellette Belmont, Mass. Dear Sir: Mr. Ryder's letter in Hue and Cry in June's IF has caused me to break a record of ten years of avid reading of s-f, and finally write a "fan letter". In his short but excellent letter Mr. Ryder has, I feel, only briefly touched the "liberal arts approach" to science, and the exceeding blindness of an attitude which persistently condemns the scientist as a coldminded materialist. One cannot help feeling that this attitude often stems from a guilty awareness of ignorance of those vital factors which have done so much to safeguard health, sanity and the well-being of people everywhere. While philosophers and Mr. Ryder's "men of affairs" have been sitting on their hands, cold-blooded scientists have been easing the pain of childbirth, the ravages of diseases, and committing sundry other "materialistic" acts. But then, these activities have not the sanction of being commanded by the authorities, and are therefore not as officially representative as bomb making. In my own field of music, the Middle Ages lives on very strongly, and the attitude of the academic musicians toward the scientist perhaps represents the "liberal arts" approach par excellence . Having struggled with this fuzzy attitude for the larger part of my career (I am now finishing work toward a Doctorate of Musical Arts in Composition), I am in full sympathy with Mr. Ryder's letter, and only wish that there were more that I could say to emphasize this strange dichotomy of reason vs. logic which seems to characterize our general contemporary attitudes toward science and the scientists. -- Gregg Wm. Saeger Boston, Mass. Dear Mr. Quinn : Herewith another letter from a reader who hasn't missed an issue. Having read them all for more years than I care to think about, I give it as my opinion that you have now reached the top. And you go bi-monthly. With something over # potential readers in the country, the inescapable conclusion is reached that only a very few of us have imagination after all. How many people, do you suppose, have the curiosity to be s-f readers? Woefully few, I am sure. I particularly like Hue and Cry and the letters you choose to print Mr. Ryder has a good point. He seems to be one of the few people who realize that scientists don't always strive to produce something with an end result' in view. They are merely seeking knowledge for its own sake. I offer a point of my own which has been covered in stories, but never to my knowledge, has been discussed seriously. About the origin of Man. It seems to me that the evolution of Man is based on some very scanty and flimsy evidence. In fact we have more such evidence for the cockroach, unchanged in form for the past # years. I have two questions: One is that if we have evolved physically, why hasn't something been found reasonably close to our present physical shape? The second concerns our language. Probably the oldest language on Earth is Sanskrit. Have you ever examined it? It is tremendously complex. Could such a language have sprung in one leap from creatures who communicated by grunts? If not, surely at some time in that period when it was developing, somebody should have chiseled a few words on a rock here and there and preserved the rock for us. Older things have been dug up. The evidence seems to be that Man appeared on earth with some sort of language and civilization all at once, and not too long ago, geologically at that. Further, the oldest extant writings do not show any less intelligence than is presently current. In that case shouldn't there be some remains of these people as intelligent as we are, in the form of artifacts, or some alteration on the face of the earth? There are many questions on this subject still to be answered, but they won't be if we close our minds to everything but the Evolutionary Theory. -- Floyd W. Zwicky Rockford, #. Dear Mr. Quinn: I am one of many ardent fans of good SF short stories and enjoy reading If which in my opinion is one of the best magazines in the country today. I personally think the departments add flavor and variety. So naturally I was overwhelmed to see that the June issue boasted an article on the Vanguard Satellite and several beautiful illustrations by Mel Hunter. But I have a bone to pick with the authors. I think the article was well written, but the source of the author's information seems to leave a lot to be desired. Quote: "We feel that the basketball nomenclature was an unfortunate choice". The following, in my opinion, proves the authors know how to read. The general announcement of the Vanguard Project came on July #, # when the plan was revealed to the press by James Hagerty, Press Secretary, Detlew Bronk, President of the National Academy of Sciences and Alan Waterman, director of the National Science Foundation. The official statement read, "Plans for the construction of a small, unmanned earth circling satellite vehicle to be used for basic scientific observations during the forthcoming International Geophysical year were announced on July #". In the original announcement no description of the satellite was given with the exception of small and unmanned. Yet the next day the papers carried accounts of a basketball shaped satellite. To my knowledge the press accounts were of an unmanned satellite designed by S. Fred Singer, a physicist at the University of Maryland. It was this sphere shape, that the two scientific organizations (before mentioned) have decided to utilize. The phrase "basketball' was coined to give the general public an idea of its comparative smallness. The # foot long satellite described in IF would be overcome by the residential air drag much sooner than would one of spherical shape ejected from the third stage of a minimum orbital rocket. The article is bristling with errors. I should hate to see the second installment. The Department of Defense has announced that the rocket will have a length of # feet, not quite the length of the first stage rocket described in Satellite . The first stage to be built by the Glen L. Martin Company (builders of the Viking) will have only one rocket motor, the entire rocket will be completely finless to save weight and reduce high speed drag, and both the motor of the first and second stage will be gimbaled. The article also states that the instrumentation in such a basketball shaped satellite would be scant, while the satellite announced by the department of defense, having a diameter of about ## feet would have an easily computable volume of # plus, cubic inches. Apparently the authors have never heard of transistors and subminiature electronic parts. -- S. Earl Cohen Winnetka, #. We hate to bring this up -- but if the reader noticed the authors were making an C( educated guess " at what they felt the satellite should look like -- before any datum was released. The introduction also mentioned that Mr. Nuding is an Instrumentation Research Engineer and that Mr. Vanous is a designer of missile guidance systems -- both work for well known corporations. Reading article number two might clear up some of the problems. Also , in the Editor's note preceding the second installment , we took care to emphasize that the Nuding Vanous designed rocket-satellite was for ultimate efficiency and not the early race to get " something or anything  up there. (Continued from page #) One of the most provocative satires IF has published in its young life is Malice in Wonderland by Evan Hunter, who zoomed into notice with The Blackboard Jungle. Now it looks like we'll be reading "Malice" as a novel, as Hunter is now expanding it for the hardbacks. If it gets the promotion "Blackboard" received it will be a sensation. And if you can't or won't wait for the novel, look it up in the January, #, issue of IF. # marks the fifth birthday of IF Magazine and we are planning The First World of IF, an anthology of the best of the first five years, to commemorate the occasion. It will be a handsome paperback edition priced at #c, but the distribution will be rather limited -- so put your bid in early. -- jlq -- Continued from Back Cover with membership Science-Fiction Best-Sellers Only # Each! We make this amazing offer to prove how much you will enjoy membership in the exciting Science-Fiction Book Club. Each month the Club offers you the best of the newest Science-Fiction few cents shipping charge) -- even though they cost up to # and more in publishers' original editions. Each is described well in advance, in the Club's interesting free bulletin. You take only those books you really want -- as few as four a year, if you wish. ers -- each one a complete ScienceFiction Library in itself! Each is packed with rocket-swift stories that take you soaring in time and space... written by the greatest science-fiction authors of yesterday, today, and tomorrow. A # value, complete in handsome permanent bindings -- and all yours for only I on this amazing offer ! Omnibus of "The largest number of Science-Fiction stories to appear in one book" -- including the Wonders of the Universe and the Future... Outer Space, etc. The woman who became her own daughter... atomic power from beans... the man who lived # years... gambling on a strange planet, etc. complete play... scores of all-time great S-F stories -- shocker, "The Invasion from Mars." Just Mail Coupon V The pictures on the other side of this page give you just an inkling ot the size and scope of these three books. The partial list of authors is a mere suggestion of the great writers who contributed their most exciting tales. This most generous introductory offer is our way of welcoming new members to the Science-Fiction Rook Club. But the supply of these exciting new best sellers, worth # and offered to you lor only I -- is very limited. That's why  it s important for you to mail the coubooks immediately. ! Dept. IF#, Garden City, N. Y.   Dept. IFI #, Garden City, New York  described on this page, as my gift books and first selection. Rill me only  I for all # (plus few cents shipping charges) and enroll me as a member  of the Science-Fiction Rook Club. Every month send me the Club's free bulletin, "Things to Come," so that I may decide whether or not I wish to receive the coming monthly selection described therein. For each book I accept, I will pay only I plus shipping. I do not have to take a book every month (only four during each year I am a member) -- and I may resign at any time after accepting four selections. books in # days, pay nothing and this membership will be cancelled! Treasuries of Science-Fiction.  Over # Pages Crammed with Thrills of Tomorrow, Including # Rocket-Swift Stories.  Four Selections from the Wy.C Greatest Classics of Sciencewf Fiction. Written by the Outstandof Yesterday, Today and mm. Tomorrow. Hfej  Worth # in Publishers' Editions! See Other Side for Further Details Greatest Feast of Science-fiction  Will We Find Intelligent Life in Space? World's Foremost Aerophysicist Exciting New Worlds of Science Fiction! to be found onywhere in the world is now appearing regularly in IF. Also, you will find exclusive, factual, authoritative articles on the science of today and tomorrow -- by eminent scientists. Here (this copy is a sample), in a beautifully printed and i I I us trated magazine, is the world of the future in both fact and fiction. But -- have you enjoyed this issue? Then why not subscribe. If you do, we will send your -- Your subscription brings you (bimonthly) # issues for just #. But we will send the first issue as a gift, which means you get I # issues in all... So, don't miss a single one of the important issues to come. Send your subscription to -- IF Magazine All Stories New and Complete  A Symbolism of "This Lonely Earth", by Mel Hunter  IF is published bi-monthly by Quinn Publishing Company, Inc. Volume #, No. #. Copyright # by Quinn Publishing Co., Inc. Office of publication, # Lord Street, Buffalo, New York. Entered as Second Class Matter at Post Office, Buffalo, New York. Subscription # for # issues in U.S. and Possessions; Canada # for # issues; elsewhere #. Allow four weeks for change of address. All stories appearing in this magazine are fiction; any similarity to actual persons is coincidental. Not responsible for unsolicited artwork or manuscripts. #c a copy. Printed in U.S.A. Next (February) issue on sale December #th Editor's Not so many weeks ago "the greatest show on earth" folded its tents for the last time. Just a short time before this dramatic announcement, other major circuses went into bankruptcy or were forced to shut down. It was an era dying, an era of fanfare and color and superlatives and fun for all ages passing clamor of the midway, smell and roar of the animals, barking of pitchmen, swelling tones of the calliope, and the excited shrieks and laughter of children. Some reports say the major circuses will play hereafter in big air-conditioned arenas. Some say they will fold forever. But even if they do continue in the big arenas, they'll never be the same again. Not to me, anyway. I've seen the circus at Madison Square Garden and I've seen it under the big top pitched in country meadows. But the city arena of concrete and steel was never as exciting and suspenseful and filled with the spirit of holiday as the canvas and ropes. Every now and then an author will ask what is our approach to science fiction and the answer is the same as it has always been : A philosophical approach with good writing getting the call over gadgetry and scientific gimmicks. And I am always glad to receive a letter from an author reporting that at local gatherings of authors and artists the majority feel the same way. Fox B. Holden (his real name), who wrote Dearest Enemy (Oct. IF), and A Matter of Order (Aug. IF), recently said: "I began writing science fiction while still in college because I felt that science goes -- or can go -- a long way beyond the production of gadgets. Taken far enough it really, to my mind, becomes one with philosophy. And philosophy, after all, is just thinking -- the kind of thinking that is impossible for animals, but of which Man is allegedly capable. "It's the kind of thinking that can give us all a glimpse of the might-be -- which usually is a brighter subject than the mighthave-been. Hope, they call it -- and it does something to keep a guy's chin up -- even if it is sometimes worked through a negative "better not do that " approach. And how could you evaluate positiveness, anyway, if you didn't have a few minus signs here and there to go by? "So -- science-philosophy. And when it's put down by people who like to spin yarns, it becomes science fiction." Fox Holden, incidentally, lives in nearby Poughkeepsie and is a parttime science fictioneer whose fulltime job is that of publicity writer for the electronic research division of one of the world's large manufacturers of typewriters and computing machines. He is a graduate of Middlebury College in Vermont, getting his sheepskin after putting in four years in the Infantry, Air Force and Armored Forces. Before going to his present job, he served seven years as a newspaper man. In his present work he is as close to a push-button world of gadgets and technology as a writer could possibly be -- yet his science fiction writing reveals ideals far, far afield. Two new anthologies are due for early publication -- a collection of Richard Matheson's short stories and a variety of authors compiled by Ted Dikty. Included in the Matheson selections is Being one of the most suspenseful, eerie and Frank Reilly's The Cyber and Justice Holmes is included in the Dikty selection... Hero Driver by Alfred Coppel, who seems to have drifted from science fiction circles, will soon be released as a movie by United Artists... Bourgey and Curl, late comers to science fiction book publishing, will bring out For These , My Children by Raymond F. Jones. Ray Jones has appeared in these pages on a number of occasions, always with some top-notch entertainment... A writers' magazine recently reported Harlan Ellison's age as "just sixteen". If true, he sure got married mighty young and learned an awful lot at a tender age to have written The Crackpots (June IF)... Gordon Dickson has something of a lulu in Lulungomeena which is scheduled for X-Minus-One, the N.B.C. science fiction TV show... Head of what is perhaps America's largest stable of science fiction writers, among others, is a stocky, well-set, dark haired dynamo of an agent you sf readers seldom, if ever, hear about. His name is Scott Meredith and his staff of readers, located on the #th floor of a Fifth Avenue office building, outnumbers the personnel of many good-sized publishing houses... It becomes more evident each day that the most constant thing about science fiction is the interest of the American fans. May their tribe increase. Prime example: About the time you read this, The Los Angeles Science Fantasy Society will hold its #th meeting. That , brother, is being constant!... Two offers for Dr. Alan E. Nourse to practice in a "quiet town where there is time to write science fiction" -- one from California and one from Alaska (see August IF). By the way, Dr. Nourse is working on an outline for an article on the future of medical progress that promises to be one of the most fascinating you ever read. It will be in an early issue. And don't forget about The First World of IF, Wrap around cover and end papers are by Mel Hunter. Preliminary color sketch for the cover is a honey. We'll list proposed stories and authors in the next IF. Incidentally, it will be a rather small printing for newsstand distribution, so ask your news dealer to save you a copy. -- jiq Outside was miserably primitive , while the City-State was Utopia. What reason could a person have for swapping heaven for hell unless it was for laughs! ing in the city and he didn't like that. Oren had one of the few outdoor gardens remaining in Greater New York and he'd had to hook up an irrigation system fed by hose from a tap in his basement. While he was at it, he ran another hose up to sprinklers above the windows of his ground-floor study and arranged them so they could send a shower of water against the panes from outside. He turned the rain on hard so that water drummed against the glass with the realistic sound of a downpour. It was almost satisfying. The bright sunlight streaming through the drops spoiled it, somewhat. Oren had known people who'd missed more than the rain. Some had bid good-by to the city proper and moved to the suburbs, though they remained within the boundaries of the City-State. Others had fled Outside. But there were those who had wanted, or needed, the benefits of the super-metropolis -- and they compromised, as Oren and his wife had. They'd diverted the rain away from the cities because it was mostly a waste to have it fall there. It was better to shunt it over to where it could fill a reservoir or unparch a desert or put out a forest fire -- provided these places were on resources land belonging to one of the City-States. All very laudable, Oren supposed, but it was an interference with nature that he didn't care for. He was a conservative, an anti-progress crank. Actually, euphemisms aside, he knew he was an anti-regimentarian. Had he been one outside his private thoughts, though, he would have been considered an undesirable member of society. It wasn't illegal, yet, to question the Suggestions of the City-State Council. Thus far, the Suggestions lacked the force of law. They served, however, to establish customs which most citizens found it wise to follow if they cared to avoid harassment by the green-tunicked members of the Council Guard. It was no more illegal to be an anti-regimentarian in Greater New York in # than it had been to be a Jew in the early days of HitlerGermany, a Communist in the latter days of the United States, or a Conciliationist during the States' Rights Wars -- in which the victors became the City-States and the losers were banished Outside. But obviously it was healthier to keep quiet and follow Councildecreed custom than to seek justice in the letter of the law. Oren was just sitting there in the study, smoking, not really thinking consciously about any of this, when his wife came in. His body was cradled to the optimum relaxation point in the restochair, but he was nervous. "Oh, you've got the rain on," Edith said. "That's nice. But the sun kind of spoils it." "Yes, it does," Oren said. "Pull the blinds, will you, honey?" She darkened the room and curled up into a resto next to his. "That is better," she said. "Makes it more cozy." He lighted a cigaret for her and for a time they sat quietly while smoke rose to mingle with the shadows of the room. "It is today, isn't it, Oren?" she said finally. "I haven't been able to concentrate on a thing. I've got that orchestration sitting on the piano -- the one the maestro wants by tomorrow -- but I don't have the patience to finish it." "It's just routine, isn't it? Nothing you couldn't knock out in a couple of hours, I should think." "Yes, but I seem to be so jumpy," his wife said. "I know I'm not supposed to be. It isn't Modem, and all that, but I am." He laughed and reached out a hand to pat her flat waistline. "Old skinny-tummy," he said. "It used to be that only the husbands went through waiting and smoking themselves into a frazzle. Now the female of the species knows what it's like, too. Relax," he said. He tried to give it the casual touch. "Our baby will be bom at the proper moment, sanitary, strong and just as squally as the old-fashioned ones. The obby said he'd call immediately from the delivery lab and we'll probably see him tomorrow, when the little bugger's adjusted to things." "The obby!" Edith said. "What a terrible expression. Dr. Morales is the best obstetrician in Greater New York and you call him an obby, as if he were some kind of gadget." "Well, isn't he? I think I'm being very modern and enlightened about this whole impersonal business. Our first child is being bom six miles away in an antiseptic laboratory while its mother and father sit smoking and discussing terminology. Nine months ago they got a droplet of goo from me and one from you and mixed them up in a high-gear cocktail shaker and ever since it's been growing in a bowl of heat-controlled expandomush on a shelf where they look at it every so frequently and see that it's notgoing sour and agitate it a bit so it won't think its forgotten. If that doesn't entitle me to call Dr. Morales an obby I don't know what does." "Really, Oren, you're terrible," she said. "You talk as if somebody put something over on you. After all, you're the one who wanted to do to go about it in the old-fashioned way. There's no law against it -- not really. Just a Suggestion. And we could have moved Outside, if necessary. We'd have gotten along all right." "We've been over this so many times, Edith," he said. He was being angry in his icy-calm way. "Let me enumerate the points for you. One -- we're both Intellectuals, so called. You're a musician; I publish talking books. It just so happens that the seats of our culture -- the only places we could make a living -- are the city-states. We're not farmers or workers and we'd be of no use on the Outside. "Point two -- if we left Greater New York where would we go? Ghicagoland? The Bay? Dixieton? One's as bad as the other -- and besides none of them has a decent publishing house, even if you could write your music wherever you had a piano. "Point three -- although it would be socially unacceptable to have a natural baby here, it would be safe. You'd have the best facilities, even if you got lectured at while you used them. Who knows what would happen to you Outside?" "I'm sure people survive natural pregnancy on the Outside just as they used to," Edith said. "I think you've listened to the Council so long that you're beginning to believe everything you're told. Next they'll be telling you what kind of books to publish, if they haven't already." She had become angry herself, now, as she did when he assumed his superior-logic tone of voice. Instantly he was contrite. He realized that he had been sharp with her only because she had verbalized the dilemma he wanted to avoid having to recognize. "I'm sorry, Edie," he said. "I'm all tense. This waiting around for someone else to have our baby for us has me on edge. And you're right about the Council. They sent us a Suggestion last week. Very logical thing it was, too, on the surface. They'd noted that some of the titles on our back list haven't been moving well' lately. That's true enough. They rarely do. They're standards, though, and the sales are steady, if small. But the Council Suggested that we let them go out of print. In the interests of conservation, of course. It was just a Suggestion, mind you; we can take it or leave it." "And if you leave it?" "I don't know. I think it's just a feeler the Council is putting out, to see how far it can go. I suppose if enough publishers took it, instead of leaving it, the next step would be a Resolution, to bring the rest of us into line." "What kind of titles are they Suggesting you drop?" Edie asked. "Simply to help save tape, of course." "Oh, some works on politics and government, as you might expect, and some less likely -- such as a whole list of titles by Haskell, the naturalist." "You're resisting the Suggestion, I hope." "I don't know," he said. "We're having a conference on it tomorrow. We did take one of their Suggestions, but that was strictly meritwise." " h? " "It wasn't exactly a Suggestion. It was a letter of recommendation sent along with a manuscript by a Dr. Stern, the head of the Health Department. We're taping his book. It's about his pet theory, but it's sound. You know, the one about the creativity of women. I told you about it." "I don't remember," she said. "But I don't think I'll' like it." "It applies to you, though. Stern's theory is that for so many hundreds of centuries women had been conditioned to motherhood that as a group they had a block against other channels of creativity. Even the unmarried and childless couldn't break the pattern because they themselves were the products of motherhood. Theoretically, that would be why you're having such difficulty with your music." "But my mother was deconditioned," she protested. "She was born naturally, but I grew up in a bowl of mush, as you call it, and I intend to break the pattern." "It's a three-generation process, Stern thinks," Oren said. "Not that I agree with him necessarily, but if we had a daughter, and if she were an obbv baby, she might be the first to break the pattern in our family -- if she had any talent, of course." "You and your Dr. Stern can have his theory. I intend to break the pattern myself," Edith said. "Provided I don't fall back into it by having a baby myself in the normal way. I'll write that symphony yet, you'll see." "Now you're being inconsistent." She smiled as she recognized the truth of his remark. "All right," she said. "But that's my prerogative. They haven't bred that out of us yet. I'm still a woman." She became serious again. "And I guess that's why I don't know whether I want to have another baby this way. It's so impersonal, so cold -- like going shopping. This way is so easy; it saves so much time and makes everything so simple. But do you appreciate the things you get the easy way, or do things only become precious to you when you'd had to suffer to have them?" "Now don't give me any of that martyr talk," Oren said. "Were you any less precious to your mother because you were an obby baby?" He grinned. "As I recall, you were about the most spoiled creature in existence until I snatched you from the bosom of your family." His joke failed to return the smile to her face. "I'm worried about something else," she said. "Aside from the psychological aspects of the thing. I mean, have I deteriorated... as a woman? I don't want to be just a brain and a talent, if I am that. I want to be interesting in that other way, loo -- the way grandma was when she was a girl." He turned in his chair to look directly at her. "Believe me, Edie, you're interesting. Oh, yes. Believe me." Then he leaned over and kissed her soundly on the mouth. "If you wish," he said, "I'll elaborate on that comment." "Do that," she said. But the elaboration had to wait. There was a musical tone and a voice said: "Dr. Morales calling Mr. and Mrs. Oren Donn." "There he is," said Edith. "There he is!" "Now calm down," her husband said. "Are you ready? Would you like a drink or anything before we talk to him?" "No. Go ahead, answer him." Oren spoke the words that opened the communications circuits of their home to the doctor's call. "Donn Fourteen. Hello, Doctor, this is Oren Donn. Edith's here, too." "Hello," said Dr. Morales. "Your son has been born." "A son!" Oren cried. "Do you hear that, Edie? It's a boy!" "That's wonderful," she said. "How does he look, Doctor?" "Perfect," Dr. Morales said. "He's a lively little tike. Got good color, too. Not all red like these natural children. He's had his first cry and his first meal and now he's sleeping. You can see him tomorrow at -- say fourteen hundred. Will that be convenient for you?" "That'll be fine," Oren said. Edith nodded agreement. "I'd like to bring him a little present, if I may. A little gold wristband my father gave me when I was born. Sort of a family tradition, you know." "I'm afraid that won't be possible, Mr. Donn," the doctor said. "You know the rules. No foreign matter must touch him except what the laboratory provides. That's why you were advised not to buy any clothing or bedding in advance. We have all the things the child needs right here. In six weeks, when you take him home, you can dress him in an Indian suit, if you wish, but until then you must abide by our rules." "Of course, Doctor," Edith said. "We understand. Tomorrow at fourteen hundred, then." "Right. Goodby." "Goodby." The double goodby switched off the communicator and a single musical tone signalled that the connection was closed. "Well," said Oren, "there he is. Bom and everything. How do you feel?" "A little weak. Honestly," she said. "I feel as if something had happened to me physically, just now. A lightening of pressure, sort of, and yet a kind of frustration. I can't explain it, really." "It's strange," Oren said. "I don't know how a natural father used to feel, after he'd been sweating it out in a hospital corridor, but I'm pretty excited. But what bothers me is that I had the same sort of feeling when the dealer called up last year to say that our new gyro was ready to be delivered." "Funny," she said. "He won't really be ours for six weeks. And until then I won't even be able to hold him in my arms except half an hour a day. What is that horrible name they have for it?" "Parent Acclimatization." He took her hand and squeezed it. Then he got to his feet decisively. "I'll get you a drink. A good stiff one. Then I want you to go in and finish that orchestration. We've got to snap out of this." "All right," she said. "And while you're working, I'll go out. I feel like taking a walk in the rain." "But there isn't any rain," she said, "except just outside the window." She turned a switch and stopped the drumming of the Water on the panes. "You are in a State, aren't you?" "He laughed. "I certainly am. All right, then, I'll fix us both a drink." Later, when Edith had finished the orchestration, Oren asked: "Shall we see what's on the triveo?" "I don't care," she said. "If you Hke." When television first went threedimensional it was called tri-video, to distinguish it. In time this was shortened to triveo, first with a long i y then with a short one. And there were many, like Edith, who changed the word once more -- to trivia. There was always a discussion about the triveo before they switched it on. Sometimes weeks went by during which it lay silent and unseen. Probably it was the least-used piece of equipment in the house, a price it paid for its lack of intelligent programming. Oren pushed a button on the panel attached to the arm of his restochair and a section of the living room wall became the front page of the daily gazette. He dialed for the triveo section. "It says Jerry Hilarious is on," he said. Edith squinted at the projected page. There was a flat shot of a man in evening clothes, with his eyes crossed and his tongue held grotesquely in a corner of his mouth. "Looks more like a Jerry Gruesome," she said. "Who is he?" "A comic, it says. It's his triveo premiere. He's made a big hit in the pleasurants, it also says." "I'm glad we eat at home, then," she said, "where we don't have to have belly laughs with our roast beef." "Let's try him," Oren said. "We can always turn him off." "All right," she said. "But you never do. You hang on to the grim end of everything." "You've got to give them a chance. We wouldn't have any talent at all if everybody was condemned sight unseen." "Off with their heads!" said Edith cheerfully; and later, when Jerry Hilarious had made his debut, she asked: "You call this talent? The comedian was a short, skinny man who gave the appearance of brash boyishness, though he must have been well into his thirties. He had a crop of scarlet hair whose vividness resulted either from dye or the affinity of the triveo cameras for the primary colors. Jerry Hilarious also had an amazingly plastic face which he contorted at will and a repertory of startling gestures made still more fantastic by his apparent ability to throw each limb out of joint. One of the gestures, delivered as if from a pitcher's mound, sent his forefinger streaking out by triveo magic so it seemed to be only an inch from the viewer's nose. Then the outthrust arm and finger moved to the southwest and its owner's comic high-pitched voice would say to a stooge with the utmost scorn: "Aw, g'wan outside " The gesture and the gag line were used several times during the program and it was obvious that these had helped to win him a spot on the City-State Network. It also was obvious that a new catch phrase had been bom and that the Donns could expect to hear it often from amateur comedians among their acquaintances. M ark olafson had to be careful now. He had to use the utmost caution while appearing to be casual. Moving by night, it hadn't been too hard to cross open country undetected into the town on the outskirts of the City-State. From there, by stages, he had traveled nearly to the west bank of the Hudson River. At the bus terminal, Mark went to the men's room and, waiting for a moment when he was alone, quickly but carefully redusted his face with talcum to hide the redness of the skin that marked him as a man from Outside. That done, he rubbed the excess off his hands and adjusted his borrowed clothing. It was the best in the village and it had been pooled from among various owners for his mission. The village's best was only a seedy approximation of the everyday clothing of those he was among now. He pulled a telltale burr from the pants leg, wiped the shoes, adjusted the hat and, taking a deep breath, walked out into the terminal. Mark ignored the moving pavement as being too open to scrutiny, and too slow. He bought a ticket to Timesquare and found the right bus. There were plenty of empty seats and he chose one in the back next to a window and tried to sink into it inconspicuously. He saw the bus driver look back in his direction and he averted his eyes quickly. The driver seemed to be staring at him, but finally turned back. A few more people got on. No one sat beside him, luckily. The driver started the engine, closed the doors and the bus moved out onto the ramp leading to the tunnel under the river. Oren Donn was sitting in his temperature-controlled, windowless office trying to decide whether to use good old reliable Smithson, with his fine familiar voice, to read the new pot-boiling historical romance into the tapes, or to experiment with a new voice, when the reception screen announced a visitor. Oren pushed the papers to a corner of his desk and got up to greet the caller. The name, Mark Olafson, sounded familiar but he couldn't quite place it. But the man's face and the handclasp he gave him brought it all back. "Mark!" said Oren. "You old scoundrel! I haven't seen you since school." "That's right," the visitor said. He looked around the quiet, efficient office and dropped into a heavy lounge chair. "Hope you don't mind, I'm about beat." He sighed. "Been traveling." He looked carefully at Oren. "Make yourself at home," Oren said. "Brothers of the Oath don't stand on ceremony." Mark Olafson laughed. "Remember that, do you? It's been a long time since that schoolboy binge. You were pretty crocked." Oren pretended to look hurt. "Held my liquor as well as a certain other eighteen-year-old I could name." "Good old Donnie," said Mark. "Does the oath still hold?" He was serious suddenly. "Of course." Oren looked at his visitor's clothing. He saw the rubbed places in the cloth and the worn shoe-soles. "I don't have a lot of cash with me, but you're welcome to what I've got -- and I'll be here tomorrow." Mark grinned. "That's more than I can say. Thanks, Donnie, but it's not money I need. Principally I need a friend -- someone I can trust -- a brother." "Just a minute." Oren lifted a section of his desk and pressed a button. Mark jumped to his feet. Oren looked surprised. "Just wiping the tape. Don't be alarmed. I start it up in the morning and record all conversations. It's just a business gimmick." "Does it go anywhere else?" Mark asked. "No. I have it for my convenience. Lots of people do. Helps you remember things, if you've got a memory like mine. Here, take the spool. There's nothing important on it today." He unhooked it and handed it to his visitor. "I'm sorry," Mark said. He sank back into the chair. I've got a case of nerves." He took out a handkerchief and wiped his face. Some of the talcum came off. "You see, I'm from Outside." "Oh." Oren looked grave and drummed on the desktop with his fingers. "That's where you've been. Pretty grim, I imagine." "Yes and no. It depends on what you're used to -- and what you want. For instance, I'm used to not having much -- but I want a great deal. Does that sound paradoxical?" "Yes." "It's not, really," said Mark. "I don't have time to go into it right now, but one day we'll have a yam about it. In the meantime, old brother, what I need are clothes that will get me by without suspicion, sme kind of cosmetic to cover up my ruddy outdoor face that'll stay put for more than half an hour, and your solemn promise not to say a word to anyone -- not even your wife, if you've got one." "I have. She's Edith Riordan Donn, the composer." "So she's your wife? Well congratulations. We hear her music out there, once in a while. 'The Storm that Wasn't,' for instance. Good subversive stuff." Oren wasn't sure this was a joke. "Look, Mark," he said, "I'll help you all I can. I give you my word, which should be superfluous. I'll bring the clothes and the makeup and I won't say anything to anybody. But because I do have a family -- there's my little boy, too -- I don't want..." "I understand," his visitor said. "Don't worry. I'm deeply grateful and I wish I didn't have to be so mysterious. But that irt itself helps protect you. And I'd go a long way toward Death to avoid involving you and your family. I mean that." Oren felt a thrill of vicarious adventure, but it was short lived. "I believe you," he said. "Shall I bring the clothes and things tomorrow. Here?" "If you will. It's a busy office building, with people coming and going all day. Better than my going to your house, or meeting you someplace else." Mark Olafson stood up. "Now I've got to run. I'm very grateful to you." Oren waved away the gratitude. "Tell me," he said. "Do you think -- ? I mean if my family and I -- " Mark Olafson's glance was keen but impersonal as it swept up from Oren's good clothes to his pale, well-fed face and around the luxurious, gadgeted office. "Somehow, Donnie' he said. "I don't think you'd like it out there." Martin was a very good baby. He never cried, never was any trouble. He was sent to them in an ambulance ("Delivery truck!" Oren called it) from the hospital. He arrived in a cage of glass called a Sleeprplay. It was to be his home till he outgrew it. The thing regulated the temperature to the baby's needs, kept out insects, bathed him with anti-germ beams and made him inaccessible to random pats, cuddles and chin-chucks. There was also a switch they could have used to soundproof the cabinet if Martin had been too noisy. But even if he had been the worst wailer in the world they wouldn't have considered using it against him, they said, and wondered who would be so heartless. But though they derided the glass box, they found it a useful improvement over the old-fashioned crib and play pen. And much more sanitary. There was a Chango at one end of the gadget. Oren never quite lost his fear that it would swallow up his son whole one day. It was operated by plunging the baby into it up to his waist and holding him there. Then, behind the scenes, the old diaper was stripped off, the baby washed and oiled and a new, pinless diaper fastened to his loins. The whole operation took thirtyseven seconds and the manufacturers were looking for a safe short-cut which would reduce the time to half a minute flat. But they hadn't yet found anything to make the diaper itself obsolete. Martin was so little trouble that they sometimes forgot he was in the house. He ate without fuss and slept well and the glass box discouraged much playing. So Edith had plenty of time for her music. She worked hard and, sometimes when the baby was asleep and the piano was making a great racket, she would soundproof the Sleeprplay so he wouldn't be disturbed. But she was often discouraged in the evenings when Oren returned from work and soon he found it was better not to question her about her progress. Tonight he had tickets to a theater. It was a surprise for her -- a dance act was going to use some of her old music. She met him at the door and, before he could tell her about the tickets, she threw herself at him with a hug that almost tumbled him off his feet. "What's up, Edie?" he asked. "Martin been doing something precocious?" He sometimes was bitter about their son; about the machine-like way in which he was progressing, without mishap, through infancy. And he always called the baby Martin, never Marty or any pet name. "Now you stop that," Edith told him. "This isn't about the baby at all ; it's about me." "All right. I'll be good," he said. He followed his wife into the studio. She sat him down in a restochair, handed him a highball and went to the piano. "Now don't be too critical," she said. "This is just the theme, with a few embellishments." She sat for a moment with her hands poised over the keyboard, and then began to play. There were five majestic notes at the beginning. Edith wove them powerfully into a statement which spoke authoritatively of revelations to come. Her right hand was the harbinger of the calm future, her left the evoker of monumental discord, raging in the dying throes of the tortured present. There was strength in her playing and meaning in the music. It stirred him even on this first hearing. There was a kinship here with Beethoven, he thought, in the feeling, and yet it would be unfair to make a comparison on any other basis. He had sense enough not to mention it. She finished on a chord that echoed away in the big room, then picked up a pencil and made a change in the rough score propped on the stand beside her. Oren's face was serious when Edith looked at him. "Not so hot, was it?" she said. "Edie," he said, "you couldn't be more wrong. It's tremendous. I'm impressed more than I can say. I'm an old duffer about music -- all I know is what I like -- but you tell me I have good taste in good stuff. This is good stuff, Edie. It's the real thing." She went to sit next to him. "Do you really think so? Don't give me any malarky, Oren -- not about this. It's too important to if me. "Of course it is," he said. "And it's going to be important to a lot more people, I think. Did this all happen today?" "Sort of. It all went together today. I've had the theme -- those first five notes -- going through my mind for a week or more. I'd feel them pounding through me when I was doing something altogether irrelevant -- Tike dipping Marty into the Chango, or hydrating his formula -- but they didn't come out until I sat down at the piano today. Then there they were. They just came out of my fingers. I didn't even write them down, at first; they were so much a part of me I knew I'd never lose them." "That's wonderful," he said. Then he asked: "Where do you think it came from?" "What do you mean? The music? I wrote it, of course." "Of course you did. I mean, do you think it has anything to do with the Stem theory? The one about non-babying helping women create? You're a generation ahead of his schedule, if there's anything to it." "I think his theory is a lot of egotistical male nonsense," Edith said. "The only reason women haven't become great musicians or artists -- or generals, for that matter -- is that we never got a chance to show what we could do. Not till lately, anyhow. Remember, it's been less than a century since women were permitted to emerge from the cocoons that the men had spun for them." Oren smiled but said nothing. "My theory is that Dr. Stern is just a crackpot' Edith said. "It's a matter of environment and opportunity, that's all. Otherwise why did it take man so long to write his first novel from the time he spoke his first intelligible grunt as a caveman? I wrote that music myself, without any mystic help from a sublimated sex urge. And I'd have written it just as well if Marty had been born in me instead of in a laboratory." "Good for you," he said. "Then we've got a reason for celebrating." He told her about the theater tickets. She was pleased and ran to dress. The dance act wasn't good and Edith's music seemed to her to be badly played by the orchestra. But it was an evening out and Edith squeezed Oren's hand to reassure him. They hadn't expected to see a movie, too, but the curtains parted after intermission and there it was, in Ultra-Dimension, Authenticolor and Tactilivity, presented as a public service by the Department of Information, Greater New York. A breath of cooled, somewhat rancid air swept across the audience and the sound apparatus played a stylized theme borrowed from a Tin Pan Alley relic that Edith recognized at "Baby, It's Cold Outside." The title of the film, formed by blocks of ice, was, simply, Outside . The movie purported to be a travelog but they recognized it as propaganda. Nevertheless, after two reels of cineramic proximity to the gaunt, sullen-looking people who had chosen to live beyond the blessings of the City-States, they decided they were extremely fortunate to be living where they were. Oren, in addition, had the recent memory of Mark Olafson. His caller, whp had been so nervous, so suspicious in the office, might easily have been one of the people in the film. "That's not for me," Oren said later. "That's going back two hundred years -- going Outside. Those shacks they live in -- what did the commentator call them, quaint? -- they're not quaint, they're primitive." "I suppose that is the impression we're expected to go away with," Edith said. "But I don't see how we could have any other. The cameras don't lie. If that's freedom, they've changed the definition and they can have it." Oren recalled Mark Olafson's words. No, he and Edith wouldn't like it out there. for a time. But its progress was steady. Edith knew what she wanted to say through the music and she said it forcefully. Sometimes the statement came originally at her piano as she sat and coaxed the black and white keys to express a phrase that was throbbing through her body. At other times whole passages suggested themselves to Edith with such clarity that the piano was superfluous. The third movement was a revelation. The entire theme of it suggested itself to her in one home from a department store sale. She was riding the moving pavement, clutching a few parcels she hadn't wanted to entrust to the delivery tubes and hemmed in by a crowd of other women shoppers. There, one flight underground, moving north at the speed of fifteen miles an hour and trying to ignore the advertising placards set into the tunnel ceiling at an angle just overhead, she felt the music hit her. It came not as a phrase or snatch -- not as a tender seedling thrusting hopefully through a crack it had made in the soil -- but full-blown, like the bouquet of flowers a magician would produce from an empty fist. The movement exploded in her mind, in a fraction of a second, fully-developed. It was a natural outgrowth of the first and second movements, over which she had worked so hard, and, although it was similar to them thematically, it was a totally original concept of their potentials. It was as if the first two had mated and produced the third, spontaneously and perfectly. Edith was transfixed as the music throbbed through her. She was carried two exits beyond her own before she realized it and then in her excitement elbowed her way to the slow lane and off, where she took the escalator to the street. She walked home from there, quickly. She was running when the front door cushioned closed behind her. She threw the parcels to a couch, dropped her coat to a floor, sailed her hat across the room and was at the piano. She was still at the piano, the floor around her littered with paper and pencil stubs and the ashtrays piled with cigaret butts, when her husband came home. "Hi, Edie," he said. "How's the baby?" She was irritated that his first thought should be of the child. But then she said : "Oh my God! The baby!" "What's the matter?" Oren asked. Alarmed, he headed for the nursery. She followed him. "I plugged his sleeper into the sitter connection when I went shopping and when I came home -- frankly I forgot all about him." Martin was asleep, peacefully. If he was damp he didn't show it or object. "What a terrible mother I am," Edith said. Anxiously she pressed a button and a voice said, almost instantly: "Nursaway, Incorporated. Everything was just fine while you were gone. One moment, please." That was just Tape A, but it did mean there had been no trouble; no need to send a nurse in person from the central sitter office. "Electronic nursemaids," Oren snorted. He was about to elaborate when a viewscreen which could be seen from the baby's Sleeprplay went alight. The image of a young woman in a crisp white uniform appeared. She said: "Martin was wonderful while you were gone. He slept most of the time. Once he got a bit cranky, but we ran off a puppet film on the screen, which amused him, and then played a Soothe-tune. He went back to sleep. You have a very fine baby, Mrs. Donn." "Yes, I know," Edith said. "Thank you." "Will there be anything else?" "No. Thank you very much, Nurse." "Thank you." The screen darkened and Edith plugged out the connection. "So everything's under control," Oren said. "I'll change him and feed him later, if you like." They went back to the studio. "You seem to be busy." He looked around at the mess. She laughed and curled up on the couch, moving the parcels to the floor. "You have no idea," she said. "I've been going like a mad one all afternoon. And the reason why? This will kill you." She spoke selfconsciously. "Your strictly notalent wife thinks she has something good. She thinks she has it and she may not lose it, if only she keeps working at it like fury so as to keep it from getting away." "Of course you've got something," he said. "We both know that." "But this is different. It's the third movement. It's all there. Part of it's down on paper -- there," she pointed her chin at a mass of papers on the piano top, "and part of it's up here." She rapped her skull with her knuckles. "Or down here," she added. "I seem to feel it in my stomach, too. Is that the way great music is written -- with the stomach?" "I don't know," Oren said. "But if that's the way you write, that's the way you write." "Well, this is ulcer music. Maybe I'll give it a name. Symphony Number I by Edith Donn, subtitled The Brain and the Ulcer.' " "Good," he said. "Now you're relaxing. I'll get us a drink and you knock off for the day so you can go at it fresh in the morning." "Thanks," she said. "I'll take the drink, but I've got to get back to this. I can't risk losing it. If you don't mind getting your own supper, that is? I don't think I want anything." He came back from the portable bar and handed her a drink. "In the old days I'd have blown my stack," he said, grinning. "Work hard all day and then have to stand over a hot stove while my wife makes merry in the music room. But even though I'm Apologist Number One for the old-fashioned way, I must admit this modern cooking has grandma's methods beat all to hell." "You know how to do it, don't you?" his wife asked. "The freezer's full of all kinds of meals. All you have to do..." "I know," he said. "From the freezer into the Electronicook and orito the table in ten seconds flat. Then into me, and what's left into the Disposo. But just to be perverse, I think I'll have a couple of medieval sandwiches. If I fix you some and tiptoe in quietly with them, you'll eat them, won't you?" "You're a darling," Edith said. She gave him a quick kiss and went to the piano. "Yes, I will." At twenty-three thirty Oren Donn came out of the shower and peeked into the studio. Edith was still hard at work. He wrote a note, tiptoed in and put it on the piano top : "Baby's all tucked away. Now I'm tucking myself away. Please come to bed soon." glance, smiled, blew him a kiss and nodded vaguely. When he awoke the next morning the first thing he was conscious of was the muted sounds of the piano. He went in to her. "Honey, for God's sake!" Her face was pale and drawn but her eyes were bright. She would play a few bars, then write a line of notes in quick, expert strokes. There was a little box of tabodex She read the note at a quick on the piano top next to a glass. "I'm fine," Edith said. "Don't worry about me. It's a bit tricky in spots, but it's really coming along." "You've got to slow down -- have some rest," he protested. "I won't let you do this to yourself." "No," she said. "The music is more important. You run along. With luck, I'll be through with this movement by the time you're home." He conceded defeat, respecting her judgment and sense of values as she had always respected his. "All right, but don't overdo it. I'll make you some scrambled eggs and coffee. And I'm going to call Nursaway and get a sitter for Martin so you won't be disturbed. Except that she'll be instructed to feed you lunch -- forcibly if necessary." Edith put down her pencil, got to her feet, put her arms around him and rested her head on his chest. "I just want to tell you," she said softly, "that you're the most wonderful, perfect, sensational, terrifically colossal person in the whole world and I love you love you love you love you." Her tears wet the skin of his chest in the V of his bathrobe. "Thank you for you," she whispered. He kissed the top of her head and then on each wet cheek and gently on the mouth. "Okay," he said, considerably affected. "Okay, fine. I'll go fix the eggs. And you write this thing good, Edie. Give it hell, Sweetheart. Give it hell." Oren pushed open the door of the apartment that night and called : "Edith. Edie!" He went into the studio, but it was empty -- and clean. The piano lid was down. The ashtrays were empty and sparkling. The papers were gone from the floor. "Edie!" he cried. A nurse in starched white came from the bedroom. She had her finger to her lips. "She's in bed, Mr. Donn. I tried to call you at the office, but they told me you'd just left." "What is it? What's the matter?" "It's all right. Strain and fatigue is about all. I've given her a sedative and she's sleeping now. Dr. Harrons is on his way, but just as a precaution." He pushed past the nurse and into the bedroom. Edith lay quietly in the center of the double bed, breathing just a bit heavily. He stood at the edge of the bed, looking at her. The nurse followed him. She put her hand on Edith's forehead, in a gesture which she combined with the smoothing of the sleeping woman's hair, adjusted the covers and turned to smile at Oren. "I'm sure there's nothing to worry about," she said. "Poor kid," Oren said. "I put her to bed," the nurse said. "And called you and the doctor. But as I said, it's just strain, I'm sure." "Thank you, Miss Loring. I guess you didn't bargain for all this when you came to baby-sit." "I'm glad I could help," she said. "Would you like me to fix you some coffee or anything while we wait for the doctor?" "No, thanks. Fll go visit with Martin, I think, till he gets here. Has the baby been good?" "Perfect," she said. "A real doll." His son was asleep. Oren sat and looked at him and worried about Edith. Doctor Harrons was packing his things away in his bag. He refused a drink but accepted one of Oren's cigarets and sat down in a straightbacked chair. Oren stood and fidgeted in front of him. "It's as Miss Loring said." The doctor took out a prescription kit. "Fatigue, mostly. Your wife was driving herself on borrowed energy -- she'd taken a few of those Tabodex things, you know. Perfectly all right, of course, occasionally, but you do have to let yourself catch up afterwards. Mrs. Donn just went a bit too far before allowing herself to catch up. A good night's rest and a minimum of activity tomorrow and she'll be as good as new. Who is your regular doctor?" "We don't have one. We had Dr. Morales, but he was just the obby -- the obstetrician for the baby. A laboratory baby, of course." "Good man, Morales, in his field. But I would suggest another in this case. I mean no criticism of Morales whatsoever, but he is a specialist. He'd be the first to tell you so himself. No, if I may make a recommendation, I'd say Dr. Leif." "If you say so," Oren said. "I suppose you're too busy to take on another patient yourself?" The doctor carefully ground out his cigaret in an ashtray. He looked at Oren, began a smile, then stopped it in the middle. "Mr. Donn," he said, "apparently I have news for you. Have a drink yourself, Mr. Donn. Your wife is pregnant." Oren stiffened. His face went through a series of contortions as it adjusted itself to the emotions chasing around behind it. He ended his confusion by breaking out into a broad grin. "Pregnant!" he cried. "You mean pregnant? You mean she's going to have a baby? The way people used to do? The old-fashioned way? Naturally?" "Naturally," said Dr. Harrons, grinning back. "Oh, boy!" Oren exploded. "Oh, boy-oh-boy! That's wonderful!" He walked up and down the room in excitement. "Pregnant! Imagine that! The little devil! Doctor, I'm going to have a drink and you're going to have one with me." "Well," the doctor said, "all right. Just a weak one." Edith slept through the night. Oren sent word to his office that he was taking the day off and he was anxiously hovering over his wife when she stirred into wakefulness. "Hello, Maw," he said when her eyes opened. "Hello, darling," she said. She stretched out a hand to him and he put it to his lips. It was warm and soft. "I feel so lazy and relaxed," she said. "It's about time," he said. "And that's the way you're going to stay." "Oh, but I can't. I have so much work to do. I've -- " She frowned and looked around the sunlit room. "It's morning' she said. "I don't remember going to bed. What happened?" "It's all right. Just relax." "But it's not all right. I have work to do. I have to finish the symphony. I have a lot of work to do." "You finished it," he said. "You finished it last night. Before I came home." She frowned down at the covers. "I remember now. Yes, I did finish. But that was only the third movement. It was good. It came out all right, Oren. I remember. But I don't remember after that. Did I fall asleep in the studio?" "Yes," he said. "And the babysitter put you to bed. You were knocked out." "Well, I'm not knocked out any more. I've got to get right up and start the last movement. That's going to be a humdinger to tackle. I've got no ideas whatsoever. The third took everything out of me." "So I hear," he said. "Now you listen to me. You're going to stay in bed all day. That's an order. Doctor's order. Maybe tonight, if you're very good, you can get up for a little while. But not before. You've got to take care of yourself. You owe it to the baby." "Poor Marty. I've certainly been neglecting him. All right, I'll be good. I'll stay in bed and behave. And maybe you'll bring him in and he can stay with me, the way he's never had a chance to, in that damned old scientific box of his all the time." "Edith Riordan Donn," he said to her, grinning. "Mrs. Oren Donn, I want you to stop talking like an idiot. The doctor has been here, and he's told me everything, and there's no point in your trying to hide it any longer because I know. I, your husband Mr. Donn. I know." "Know what, silly? What doctor? What are you talking about?" "You know perfectly well what I'm -- Don't you? You mean you don't know? Don't you really?" She laughed. "No, I don't. And if you keep mumbling to yourself like a fool I never will. What are you talking about?" He took both her hands in his and said: "Edie, darling. The doctor was here. He examined you after you passed out. He said you'd been overworking yourself. He said you need a rest. But he also said -- He said, and I think it's wonderful -- he said we're going to have a baby." She looked at him, her eyes wide. "Oh, no!" she said. She withdrew one of her hands and pulled it down the side of her face. "Not no, yes. We're going to be real live parents. No bowl of mush stuff, with all due respect to Martin, but an honest-to-God old-fashioned baby." Her staring eyes were focused on nothing. When she spoke again her voice was barely audible. "Now I'll never finish the symphony," she said. "It's no good any more. I can't do it now." "Silly girl," he said. "You sound like Dr. Stern. Surely you can't agree with him now. You can have your baby and your symphony both. You can have a dozen babies and write a dozen symphonies, if you want to." "No," she said dully. "Not now. I was talking a lot of bravado then. Now I'm just an ordinary woman, like all the rest. We can't do two things at once. We're strictly onetrack people. It's our fate." "Fate hell!" Oren exploded. "What a lot of nonsense you're talking. You did three movements, didn't you? You can do anything you want to do, if you'll only get out of this defeatist frame of mind." "You're shouting at me." She looked at him, her eyes grown cold. "You did this thing to me and now you're shouting at me." Her voice rose and she had a wild look. "You're jealous of my work. I was doing something creative and you weren't and now you're jealous of my work and you're trying to destroy it. That's why I'm pregnant. You did it on purpose. You did it maliciously. Well, I won't let you destroy my music. I'll destroy your child first!" She thrust the bedclothes aside and got unsteadily to her feet. He sprang up to help her. She shoved him aside, with more strength than he thought she possessed. "Honey," he said. "Hypocrite!" she yelled. She clawed a dress from a hanger in the closet, gathered together other clothing and ran to the bathroom, where she locked the door against him. He pounded on it. "Edie," he said. "You're sick. Open the door. Come back to bed. I'll call the doctor." "You needn't bother," she said. "I'm going to the doctor. I'm going to have an abortion." Oren, pale and shaking, went to the communicator. He set it for private and whispered: "Medical emergency." A minute later the bathroom door opened and Edith came out, dressed for the street. Her face was ashen under its makeup. She carried her purse in her left hand and behind it she was shielding something she held in her right hand. Oren stood at the front door, barring her way. "You're not going out," he said softly. "Please, darling, be reasonable." She walked toward him. She lifted the purse so he could see the large pair of scissors in her other hand, the point of one blade just touching her body. "Open the door, my dear husband," she said. "Let me go out." He hesitated only a moment, watching her mad eyes, then opened the door for her. a stretcher ten minutes later. She was unconscious. At Oren's gesture the two men carrying the stretcher took it into the bedroom and the young medical officer with the gold badge on his white tunic helped them transfer her to the bed. "Preventive paralysis," the officer said to Oren. "She's all right. We tracked her from the street door as soon as we got your call and made contact in person a minute or two later." "But you had to use the para ray?" Oren asked. "She was carrying those shears and we couldn't take a chance. She seemed to be wandering aimlessly until she saw us. Then she began to run and we pre-parred her. No one saw and Dr. Soames caught her as she fell. There'll be no publicity, I think I can assure you." "Thank God for that." Oren knelt by the bed and pushed a lock of hair away from his wife's face. She was breathing peacefully and the mad look had gone. "There will be a few questions, though, if we can go into the next room. Dr. Soames will see that Mrs. Donn is made comfortable." "Questions?" "Just routine," the medical officer said. "For the department records. Confidential, of course." He took Oren's elbow and guided him out of the bedroom. The questions, if routine, were extensive. At one point Oren angrily crushed out a cigaret and said: "What is this, anyway? You make it sound like a police matter. If we're charged with anything let me know and I'll get a lawyer. I don't like this inquisition." "Well, now," soothed the medical officer, "you know that there's often a very fine line of demarcation between a medical case and a police matter. Our department must have the facts if the case is to be closed." "Don't call it a 'case.' You make me sorry I ever called you." "You might have been sorrier if you hadn't," the officer said coldly, his affability slipping for a moment "Our job is to safeguard all the citizenry and it's people like you who make things difficult." Oren jumped to his feet. "Listen, you young squirt," he began. But Soames came from the bedroom then and after a grave look at Oren whispered into the officer's ear. The medical officer frowned. "What is it?" asked Oren. "What's wrong?" "Mr. Donn," the officer said reproachfully, "you didn't tell us your wife was pregnant." "You didn't give me a chance to, with your stupid questions. Well, what of it?" "We should have had that fact in our possession at the time we answered your emergency call," the officer said sententiously. "Then we would have proceeded differently. As it is, you must take responsibility." "Responsibility for what? What do you mean?" "I mean this. Preventive paralysis is harmless, generally speaking, but its effect on a foetus or embryo is not completely known and may even be harmful. Therefore we disclaim responsibility for any injury or mutation which may occur in the course of this natural birth. I have a form here which I must ask you to sign, to absolve the departm -- " That was when Oren socked him in the jaw. It was thirty-six hours before the Donn household was back nearly to normal. Oren had been under house arrest for twenty-four of those hours. During that time the house had been aswarm with Council Guards, medics and medical officers, a lawyer, nurses, a baby-sitter and reporters from half a dozen news media. One reporter carrying a creepy-peepy sent the scene out for triveo. Finally all of them had gone except Oren's lawyer, in whose custody he was paroled. "Not only don't they have a case, Oren," the lawyer said, "but you might have a strong action against the Council. I say this in the strictly legal sense, of course, without consideration of such extra-legal litx tle gimmicks such as Suggestions and Resolutions they could whip out at the spur of a moment, and assuming that they'd allow a suit. I imagine, though, that all you want is peace and privacy again." "Exactly, Burt," Oren said. He kicked at a fax tabloid whose headline screamed: "You could sue that sheet, at least," Burt said. "Forget it." The bedroom door opened. Oren pushed the tabloid under the couch with his toe as he got to his feet. Edith came in, wearing a hostess gown and smiling uncertainly. "Hello, darling," she said. "Hello, Burt. I've been a bad girl, haven't I?" Oren went to her and led her to the couch. She was a bit unsteady on her feet. She relaxed gratefully. "We're not going to talk about anything unpleasant tonight," her husband said. "We'll pretend that Burt is here on one of his rare social evenings." They pretended as best they could but it was not a success. Oren was worried about his wife's condition and was not talkative. Edith, who had not been told there was anything to worry about, was pale under her makeup and wore a fixed half-smile which soon choked off Burt's attempts at conversation. So in desperation they switched on the triveo. It was Jerry Hilarious night and the scarlet-haired comedian was in rare form. His material usually was topical, and tonight it was right up to the minute. They had turned him on in the middle of a routine which obviously was a parody of the Donn case. Since they had missed the beginning, it wasn't too clear what was going on, but in the act with Jerry Hilarious were a couple wearing heavy glasses -- which he had made symbolic of the intellectuals the City-State so despised. Moreover, the girl was wearing as a costume a print dress polka-dotted with music notes and a hat that was a grand piano, while the man, obviously a snob, carried a heavy old-fashioned book under his arm. "Oh, he's subtle," said Burt. "Subtle as a kick in the teeth. Shall I turn him off?" "No," said Oren. "We might as well see ourselves as The Common Man sees us -- unless it upsets you, Edie?" "It's all right," she said. "It has a certain fascination." The triveo couple, with Jerry Hilarious laughing it up in the foreground, were singing: "We don't like the City-State But we think we are just first rate." The couple, with their faces fixed in expressions of the utmost gravity, were going through a series of insane antics as they sang the verses, and the studio audience was roaring with laughter as Jerry Hilarious mugged, cross-eyed, and danced around the pair with his arms and legs flailing fantastically. The production ended with a crash of music and a sudden silence in which Jerry Hilarious wound up and let fly his gesture of banishment. "Aw, g'wan outside!" he cried. A wind machine went into action and, as it howled, snowflakes pelted the ridiculous, bespectacled couple. They cringed away from the gesture and crept toward an icy gate. Edith, with a switch next to the couch, cut off the triveo. Her expression was angry and her lips were pressed into a firm line. "You know," she said, "I'd like to do just that." Health Department experts and the Donns' private physician -- couldn't tell what the effect of the para ray would be on Edith's unborn child. It was alive, they agreed, but whether it would be normal after birth was something they could not yet say. They put her through a Diagnosticon, they thumped on her belly with fingers and X-steths, they examined smears and slides and dials and they said they'd be back to run some more tests when she was five months pregnant. It was thoroughly humiliating. Oren was tried on the assault charge. The trial was held in chambers with the press barred. Nothing had appeared anywhere about the fact that Edith was pregnant when she was rayed down by preventive paralysis and the Council intended that nothing should. The case was handled as one of simple assault and the judge sentenced Oren to a year in Correction, then suspended the sentence. He was free then, but from that time on the Donns were under surveillance. They planned one Restday to go on a gyro trip with a picnic lunch. They hadn't ever made such a trip as a family unit, and little Marty seemed to sense their anticipation. His heels kicked against the lunch pack as they wheeled him the few blocks to the gyropark. But the plane wasn't there. A hostile attendant, speaking from the back of his booth as if fearing contamination, told them the Council Guards had confiscated it. Marty sensed their mood of frustration and bitterness as they wheeled him back home and he began to cry. He was still crying when they reached the house and Oren on an angry impulse put the infant in the Sleeprplay and cut off his yowls by turning the soundproof switch. Then Oren went intQ the study and turned on the artificial rain; the streams of water slammed against the window. But suddenly the sound stopped. He looked up and saw a Council Guard looking at him from outside the panes. The booted, green-tunicked guard motioned to him to open the window. He did, and asked belligerently, "Did you turn that off ? # "I did," the guard said. "As you must be aware, there's a Suggestion against artificial rain. In addition to being wasteful, it's naturalistic." The guard took out a pocket Listener and aimed it at Oren. "I didn't know about any such Suggestion," Oren said. He was leaning out the window and talking loudly to the guard standing in the garden below. "And if there is such a Suggestion, it's petty tyranny." "Oren Donn, with two n's," the guard said into the Listener. "And 'tyranny.' That was the word you used, wasn't it, Mr. Donn?" "Go to hell," exploded Oren. "And get the hell out of my garden. You have no right here at all." "And use of profanity to a guard in the performance of his duty," the guard said. "People under surveillance are subject to loss of certain rights. I'm sure that was explained to you at the time of your trial." Oren bit the inside of his cheek then, and was silent. The guard looked up at Oren, smiled faintly and put the Listener back in his pocket. "Nothing else to say, Mr. Donn. Too bad. I was enjoying your lecture, as I am sure the Council will when it is transcribed for them. Nice garden you have here. Very natural." The guard turned and on his way to the gate at the back of the garden his heavy boots tramped through a border of moss roses. Oren bit off a little piece of the inside of his cheek. A man had been standing in the street beyond the garden, watching the scene, and he walked on leisurely as the guard left. The guard gave him a passing glance and disappeared around a corner. Oren recognized the man. Mark Olafson, the man from Outside. Oren was about to speak when Mark shook his head almost imperceptibly. Then he, too, disappeared from view. At his office the next day Oren spent the entire morning failing to get anything accomplished. Half a dozen times he began to tackle the correspondence that had accumulated over the weekend and half a dozen times he yanked the page out of the voicewriter. He was still in his mood when the reception screen showed that he had a visitor. It was Mark Olafson, but the name he gave now was Ross Buckley and his appearance was that of a successful businessman. Oren looked his surprise. "Well," he said. "Made a go of it, have you?" "You might say so." Mark replied. "In a manner of speaking." "I saw you go by our place yesterday, but I had no idea you'd had such a complete change of fortune. Why didn't you come in? Or is that a stupid question? I'm not much of a conspirator." "You're not a conspirator at all, I'm afraid," Mark said. He lifted a flap in Oren's desk and pressed the button that wiped the conversation tape. "You'll pardon me. No, Donnie, you're just a victim of an evil, stupid government. I saw that little drama in the garden yesterday, and I know more about you and Edith than you might suppose -- never mind how. I've been busy since you and I last talked. In several ways. And I know that things have changed with you." "They have, Mar -- Buckley. They certainly have." "Good lad. Thanks for the 'Buckley.' We'll make a conspirator of you yet." "They're driving me into it," Oren said. "Or out of the CityState, at any rate. Edith is already half-way thinking about that Jerry Hilarious thing as being a good idea -- that 'g'wan outside' business. I guess you've been here long enough now to know about Jerry Hilarious." "Yes," said Mark. "Fve become very well acclimated. You know, Donnie, once I told you I didn't think you'd like it out there. Now I'm not so sure. It hasn't changed any Outside, except insofar as it's always changing -- for the better, we think -- but..." "I know," Oren said. "I've changed. I'm waking up." Mark Olafson looked at the other man intently. "I shouldn't do this," he said. "It's not my primary job, directly. But if you like, I'll help you go." "Oh?" Oren chewed his lip for a while. "I'd like to think about it, and talk to Edith. Could we make a living? We're not farmers or laborers, you know. And -- could we take it?" "Yes, to both. I suppose you've been saturated with the propaganda films about Outside. I'll not tell you they're fakes, because they're not exactly. They're factual as far as they go. But they only go as far with their cameras and spies as we let them go." "Oh?" Oren said again. "You mean there's more than -- " "Lots more. I think I can safely say -- to you -- that you'd be pleasantly surprised. Some of our people are farmers, of course, and some work in factories. But we have a thing called a Constitution, pretty much the same as the one a bunch of the boys hammered out back in the seventeen hundreds. It says things, for instance, about freedom of the press, and that means books, and books means somebody has to publish them." "Books?" said Oren. "Of course. Your business. Ours don't talk, yet. You still have to turn the pages and know how to read. But it's something you could do if you didn't mind going into the print shop once in a while and getting your hands inky." "Printer's ink," said Oren, "How I used to love that smell! But how about Edith's music?" "We're not barbarians, except maybe when the City-State turns its cameras on us. We have music, too." "Well." Oren's eyes had a far-off look in them. "Well?" Mark echoed the word, smiling. "I don't know what to say. I'm tempted, very much, to pack right up and move out there, but I don't know. This is my country, even if it's wrong in a lot of ways, and maybe I should stay and try to help make it right instead of deserting it." "That's a noble thought. I don't mean that flippantly," Mark added quickly. "I respect you for it. But can the few people like you who are left still do anything -- from Inside?" "I don't know," Oren said. "I'll have to think about it." "I'll be around," Mark said. "Now that I'm respectable, or almost, I'll be keeping in touch with you." "Good. What are you doing here -- as Ross Buckley, I mean?" "Officially -- at least as far as the City-State is concerned -- I'm in the talking book business. Just like you. That's why it'll be easy for me to see you often, after I've really got started. Unofficially -- you might say I'm in the business of counterpropaganda, or recruiting." Oren realized that he'd be of no use in the office the rest of the day, either, and decided to go home and talk to Edith. "You'd better let me go ahead, by about five minutes," Mark said. "I don't think we should be seen together in public until things have firmed up just a bit more." Oren never saw him again. When he reached the street he found a crowd of people watching the departure of a Council Guard van. He asked the doorman what had happened. "They got an Outsider. He puts up a struggle but they beats him over the head and takes him off." With his stomach squeezed tight Oren asked, "where did he come from?" "Somewheres in the building. Just by luck the same elevator jockey brings him down as takes him up and remembers the floor he comes from. The guards are up there now. They got the whole thirty-sixth floor sealed off and every last soul up there is getting their heads grilled off." Mark Olafson must have walked three flights before and after his visit. Oren's office was on the thirtyninth floor. tension into the Donn home. Oren knew Mark would never mention his name but he was frightened by the efficiency of the Council Guard in tracking down the Outsider despite his elaborate precautions. Apparently no one but the mechanical reception screen had seen Mark visit his office and fortunately it was not one that kept a permanent record. But presumably they knew where Mark Olafson lived and the clothes Oren had brought for him might be traced, if Mark had kept them. Although Oren tried to keep his new worry from Edith, she finally forced it from him. But with it went the picture of Outside as Mark had described it for him and that, at least, was a consolation. The couple talked more and more seriously about making the break with their once-comfortable life and fleeing to the wilderness that now seemed more a promise of paradise. But where once they could have made the emigration with no difficulty other than the scorn of their friends and the sneers of a government which would have confiscated their funds as it stamped their visas, they now were trapped in a land they had come to loathe. As a man under surveillance, Oren had only limited freedom. They'd already taken his gyro and he was sure that if he strayed far from the route between his home and office he'd soon be tapped on the shoulder by a Council Guard. In this atmosphere Edith's music stagnated. It was an academic question now whether the fact that she was naturally pregnant meant that she could not write a great symphony. She knew she could not write a bar now if she was a sixteenth generation obby baby whose female ancestors for three hundred years had been born in bowls of laboratory mush. Then, in the fifth month of her pregnancy, the Health Department specialists came back for the reexamination. All the exhaustive tests again were made but still there was none among them who could say with any certainty if Edith's child would be normal after birth. Preventive paralysis was a tricky thing. That was about all they could state positively, and there had been only a few cases of an expectant mother having been prepared. The specialists went into a conference and emerged with a Recommendation which they sent to the City-State Council. The Council deliberated and issued a Suggestion to Mr. and Mrs. Oren Donn. A Suggestion to a person under surveillance had the power of a Resolution and, of course, a Resolution was an Edict, backed by whatever force was needed to carry it out The Suggestion was that the mother should enter a Health Department hospital at the beginning of her ninth month and be subject to exhaustive tests under rigidlycontrolled conditions. Then, if it was indicated that the birth would be normal -- if something so oldfashioned as a natural birth could be considered "normal" -- a film record would be made of the birth and of the infant's progress. It would of course be necessary to have a complete record until such time as the child was found to be either normal or abnormal and therefore it was Suggested that the child would become a ward of the City-State while doubt remained. The mother would be free to return home after the birth. That was when Oren and Edith decided they'd had it. They read the copy of the Suggestion which had been brought to them for their signatures. They signed it, received the thanks of the medical officer for their intelligent cooperation, and then made their plans. There was to be, on the Restday after next, the annual Rededication Jubilee in State Square, a vast public amphitheater. It was the one day in the year when the Members of the Council made a public appearance and of course everyone went to pay his respects and add to the din of applause and cheers when the Members made their brief speeches. It was also the day awards were made in the form of medals and scrolls to citizens who had done most for the City-State during the preceding year. Mostly the recipients were officials of the government, but they never were the Council Members themselves, who year after year modestly refused their nomination by the awards committee. This alone should have been enough to guarantee attendance, but there was always entertainment besides. The greatest names in the movies and triveo appeared, each with a special new act never before seen anywhere. The star of stars this year was to be Jerry Hilarious, that sensational new triveo comic. There was no triveo of the Jubilee, however. It was thoroughly understood that it would be unpatriotic not to be one of the crowd personally taking part in the Oath of Rededication that climaxed the occasion. Therefore there would be no one at home to see a triveo cast of it. Films were made, though, for showing at a later date to those who had to work on the holiday and those in institutions. Jubilee Day dawned hot and sunny. Oren and Ethel knew that their best chance would come when the ceremonies ended and the mobs of people swarmed in all directions for home. They and little Marty in his baby buggy would be part of that anonymous crowd and they would let that part of it which swarmed west take them with it -- toward the setting sun, and Outside. Just exactly how they would escape notice when they reached the outskirts of the City-State, or how they would cross the boundary, they did not know. But if there was a way they would find it. It was a long day. They'd taken nothing with them except some changes of clothing for the baby, and only as much money as they would normally be expected to carry with them, and Edith's music -- the manuscript of the first three movements of her symphony. But though they were traveling light they had the weight of fear with them until they had worked themselves well into the center of the crowd in the great square. They found seats. Under the broiling sun -- the heat only slightly mitigated by the frigeration towers -- the program began. The vast audience was restless despite the brevity of the official speeches but when each ended the applause was deafening. Oren and Edith applauded, too, looking cautiously around to see if any guards were watching. None was in sight anywhere near them. Jerry Hilarious romped onto the stage and was welcomed with a roar of laughter. At first the Donns forced themselves to laugh at his antics, not to seem out of place, and as they watched they realized that the short, wiry redhead was genuinely an artist and not just a buffoon. He was giving a masterful performance and through his special material could be seen the man, warm-hearted, inventive, instantly responsive to the mood of the crowd. Oren and Edith relaxed and felt their tension ease off. They gained strength through the respite for the journey ahead. Only when Jerry Hilarious wound himself up and threw his familiar catch line at the crowd did Edith fail to laugh. "Aw," boomed the words, "g'wan outside !" "Amen," said Edith under her breath. Finally, after repeated encores, Jerry Hilarious left the stage. Act after act followed and at last, in late afternoon, the program ended with the solemn Oath of Rededication. The Donns mouthed the promissory, meaningless words, stood up froiri the folding chairs for the recessional music and then joined a throng that was heading west. The crush was so great that Oren took Marty up and carried him while Edith collapsed the baby buggy to briefcase size and carried it. They found a kiosk and, surrounded by humanity, made their way down to the westbound moving pavement. Clinging together so as not to lose each other, they were propelled along at a steady fifteen miles an hour. The pavement and the throng took them under the Hudson River and into what had once been New Jersey but which now was just another part of Greater New York. The crowd had begun to thin as the pavement branched north and south but there were still many thousands of people heading west. Marty was asleep with his head on his father's shoulder and Oren's arms were beginning to ache. Edith had a pain in the back of the neck, as if someone were staring at her there and any moment would tap her on the shoulder and say "Go back." Miles later the moving pavement ended, at the top of a rise. Nearby was a loading platform for buses. Neither of them knew where they were or in which direction to go next. A dilapidated old gasoline bus that still carried the lettering Pennsylvania Greyhound was marked Borderville and they boarded that one. They were exhausted when the bus reached its terminal. It had been crowded when it started off. The Donns had found seats but many others stood. At the end of the line, however, less than two dozen persons still were aboard. Wearily the Donns got up. When they left the bus it drove off. Their fellow riders melted away into the dusk and the Donns walked at random down a street of ancient houses and old-fashioned stores with full plate-glass windows. They tried to look as if they had a destination. Several blocks later they saw a sign in red neon tubing which once have to go in. They could do nothing more tonight. In the dimly lit lobby, an old man sat in a heavy armchair behind the counter, dozing. There was no one else. Oren cleared his throat and the man opened his eyes. "Hi, there," he said. "Customers, eh? Always get a customer or two on Jubilee Day. How was the show?" "Great," said Oren without enthusiasm. "Could we have a double room, please, with an extra cot for the baby? I don't suppose you have a crib." "Sure do," the old man said. "We ain't so antiquated as you might think, though we are a mite far off from the center of things. Like a room with a bath, or would down the hall do you? Five credits cheaper for down the hall." "With bath, please," Oren smiled. He couldn't remember that he'd ever had to make the choice before. "Right you are, sir. Sir," he repeated. "Sometimes forget to say that." He cackled. "You from Outside? Or maybe goin' there? I know you ain't from around here." Edith looked at Oren with weary, frightened eyes and Marty whimpered sleepily as Oren shifted him to the other shoulder.  The old man cackled again. "That's all right," he said. "You don't have to say nothin'. Lots of Outsiders sneak across on Jubilee Day. And vicey versa. Nobody pays much mind. I certainly ain't goin' to make a fuss about it. All I care about's you pay me twenty credits in advance, seein' as you got no luggage." Oren fished out his wallet and handed it to Edith, who counted out twenty credits to the old man, who put them in his pocket and took a key out of a cubbyhole. "Second floor," he said. "Elevator got cranky couple years ago and it ain't worked since. Hope you don't mind the stairs." The stairs creaked loudly as they climbed them. Their room was just off the stair well and there was a film of dust on the battered chest of drawers. When Edith took the spread off the big double bed, though, she found fresh linen underneath. Oren put the baby down with a grunt of relief. "I'll bring the crib up in a little while," the old man said. "Anything else you'd like?" He was dubious when Oren asked about the possibility of having a meal sent up to the room but finally agreed to see what he could do. Maybe the place down the street, if they weren't too busy. He went out. The food came sooner than they had dared hope. It was hot and good, although they had to eat off a rickety card table the old man brought up with the crib. They ate the meal, fed the baby and put him to bed and then, while Edith ran herself a hot bath, Oren went down to the lobby to buy cigarets. The stairs creaked under his feet but the sound was drowned out by a crash as the street door was thrown open and a crowd of people entered in a babble of loud talk. There were about a dozen of them. Two of them were women and all of them seemed to be drunk. All were well dressed. Oren froze on the landing, half in the shadow. He dared not go back up for fear of attracting attention to himself, so he stood and watched. One man, apparently the leader of the noisy group, went to the counter and pounded on it. "Innkeeper!" he commanded. He took off his hat and sailed it neatly onto the branch of a coattree across the room. The gesture revealed a flaming shock of red hair. There was no doubt of his identity. Jerry Hilarious. Oren drew himself farther back into the corner of the landing. The old man came around a corner of the lobby. "There you are' said Jerry Hilarious. "Throw open the bar for these good people, Innkeeper. They're beginning to run down." "Ain't got no bar, strictly speakin'," the old man said. "I have hung up my hat and I intend to stay," the red-haired man said. "You have tables in the lobby. These will do. Put liquor on them. Or would you rather" -- he wound up and let fly his gesture of banishment at the old man -- "g'wan outside !" One of the other men in the group slapped a third on the back and howled: "That Jerry Hilarious -- he kills me!" The old man spat calmly into a flaked enamel cuspidor. "Don't kill me," he said. "If you got money I guess I can rustle up some bar whisky from someplace. We get all kinds here. You come from the Jubilee, I take it?" A florid-faced man in a checkered tunic pushed importantly forward and slapped some credits on the counter. "Take it!" he cried, laughing drunkenly. "We brought the Jubilee with us -- hah, Jerry?" "I have brought this roistering company," Jerry Hilarious said, "to see the outside of the Outside. But if you don't hurry they'll start to unroister, which is a disheartening sight. So hasten with the liquor, Innkeeper." The comedian ended his little speech with a crazy dance that evoked more laughter. The old man brought bottles and glasses from under the counter and set them out on the tables. One of the women hiccupped in a moment of silence and leaned against her escort for support. "Music!" cried Jerry Hilarious. "Turn on the triveo!" "Trivia!" shouted the man in the checkered tunic. "Turn on the trivia!" "Sir," said Jerry Hilarious, pirouetting and jabbing a finger into one of the checks, "you slander my profession. G'wan outside!" "G'wan outside! G'wan outside!" the others echoed, laughing, and the company was roistering again. "Ain't got no triveo," the old man said without apology. "Got an old video, though." He switched it on. "I don't think this is a very good party," said the woman who had hiccupped. "I'm depressed." "Can't expect all the conveniences, dear, when you get so far from civilization," her escort said. "Can you, Jerry?" "Extemporaneous reply," Jerry Hilarious said. He sang: You'd feel worse in a hearse -- You'd be drab on a slab. That is the curse Of being inside the Outside. He went into one of his fantastic dances as music blasted out of the video. Oren took advantage of the diversion to slip back upstairs and into their room. Edith came out of the bathroom with a towel wrapped around her. "What's all that noise, Oren?" she asked. "It worried me." "It's Jerry Hilarious, of all people. He's got a crowd with him on the tail end of some private Jubilee." "Jerry Hilarious!" she said. "Did they see you?" "I don't think so." "Why did they come all the way out here?" she asked. "Educational tour, apparently. Slumming to see how it is in borderland so they can congratulate themselves on living where they do. We can't leave. About all we can do is try to get some sleep and see what happens in the morning. I don't think they'll make a night of it. A couple of them are pretty bored already." But an hour later, as they were dozing off, they heard the stairs creak. It wasn't the tired tread of the old man. Someone was taking the steps two at a time. They listened in alarm to the footsteps, then in dread as they stopped just outside their door. There was a knock, a brisk tattoo. They dressed quickly. Oren opened the door. Jerry Hilarious stood there. Oren's heart sank. Edith came to his side. "Oh," she said. She took Oren's hand. "Hello," Jerry Hilarious said. He was smiling. "May I come in? I could only get away for a minute." "So you found us," Oren said in despair. He opened the door wider, then closed it behind the comedian. "And we were laughing at you -- with you, really -- just this afternoon," Edith said. "I know you have to work for them that way, but I didn't think you were their bloodhound, too." "No, no," said Jerry Hilarious. "I've never hunted anything, except laughs. I'm sorry if I frightened you. I'm on your side, the way Mark Olafson was." "You know Mark?" Oren asked. "I knew him. He's dead. They beat him to death. They'd beat me to death, too, if they found out about me." "Then you're an Outsider, too?" Oren asked. Relief swept through him. Edith grasped the comedian's hand. "Mr. Hilarious," she said. "Oh, I could cry." "Call me Jerry. That's my real name. The Hilarious is strictly for laughs." "Poor Mark," Oren said. "It was (Continued on page #) What are the chances of Man finding intelligent life on other planets? Here is the answer by a world ranking aero physicist! Lonely Earth pitifully brief span of those few fully to acquire the ability to observe, contemplate, and deduce, he has become more and more selfconscious of his lone position in the midst of all other creatures. The first domestication of wild animals may have arisen as an answer to his psychological desire to find at least semi-intelligent creatures among other branches of the animal kingdom, just as much as through his physical need for a plentiful food supply which was not dependent on the vagaries of the hunt and chase. From this same psychological root may stem our present interest in all the animated world; our eager striving to unravel the mystery of the homing sense of migrating birds, or that of the world of social insects which solved complicated political and sociological problems several hunour simple love of the pooch in the parlor. Our evolution, from animal-like acceptance of our surroundings, to searching contemplation may have left entangled in our personality the deeply rooted vision of the Garden of Eden as a reflex of that long gone dawn age when preMan vigorously lived out his short life in ignorance, and often in terror, but as yet uncursed with the concept of loneliness. This perpetual loneliness of mankind, in the midst of teeming life, results in mythological contemplation, in religious endeavor, and in philosophical and scientific study. Modern science fiction often presupposes that extraterrestrial cultures and civilizations do exist in time coincident with ours, and that their locations in space will be within range of our future technology in travel and communications. This concept implicitly embodies three conditions which must be fulfilled if human space expeditions are to have any chance ever to encounter Extraterrestrial intelligence. We believe that today we are able to judge these three questions with sufficient reliability to secure answers which are likely to be close to reality. Starting with those beyond our own control, we have to judge: #. a. Chances for the existence of intelligent life in the Universe in our Galaxy, in our planetary system. #. Odds on the timely coincidence of outside intelligent cultures within the limited span of existence of our own species, Homo Sapiens. Dr. Walther Riedel is perhaps best known for his work on rockets during the second World War. Following a series of important posts during his earlier career, in # he became attached to the Rocket Research and Development Station at Peenemuende, becoming a key figure in the advancement of German rocketry. At this station he was Scientific Coordinator between the Technical University and Peenemuende for two years, then Chief Designer for one year; from #-# he was Director of Development and Design and vice-Director of Peenemuende Station, heading up some # technical personnel. From #-# he was Governmental Co-ordinator for all German rocket propulsion systems development and production. Following the war, he came to America and for ten years was engaged in the advanced development of American rockets and guided missiles. Dr. Riedel's article is a scholarly approach to the question of whether or not we will find intelligent life in outer space and gives us a startling concept of time, space and Man. #. Possible future range of human space expeditions. The elapsed span of some four oldest ancestors acquired the right to be called forerunners of modern man, can be divided into five periods of rapidly diminishing length: in animal-like acceptance of nature. logical explanation for nature's demonstrations. #. Several thousand years of religious world concept. #. A few thousand years of philosophical approach. #. A few hundred years of exact Science. Rudiments of these five epochs are mixed within modem man to varying degrees, and this individual composition in each of us is a part of our "world picture". This alloy of so many diverging influences gives us the strength, usually, to withstand the daily impact of quarreling impressions -- and gives us, now and again, the very common mental headache against which no remedial aspirin has been found, beyond a few infamous narcotics. Perhaps, out of this pot-pourri of thinking systems, arises also our gift of simultaneously considering the thought of Man as the "crown of creation" together with the reluctantly forgiven egotism implicit in such a notion. Intelligent life in this universe and within "our" galaxy ? Strange as it may seem, this question is simply answered. We shall have to think, for the moment, in well established large, even gigantic figures. Because of their enormous size, we will here give them in powers of ten. (that is, # #I is the short way of writing I followed by #I zeroes. Similarly, # # is the same as I followed by six zeroes, or in calculating the above figures the number of zeroes, indicated by the raised 'power' numeral immediately following each #, to the numeral #.) Modern scientific thinking has evolved a draft of the dimensions and content of our Universe which may be described in the following terms: In a volume of space # x # # light years in diameter are distributed # # grams of matter. (one light year is a figure close to # miles; i.e., the distance a beam of light travels in one year at the constant rate of approximately # miles per second.) About half of this total weight of existing matter is embodied in the form of stars, or suns, the total existing number of which we may estimate to be approximately # # . These suns are organized in large, separate groups, which we call galaxies, and which may be estimated to be roughly # # in number. Therefore, the average number of suns contained in an average galaxy is about # # . If we assume one is gifted with one planet upon whose surface exist conditions suitable to the maintainance of life (as we can presently define it), then it follows that in this Universe there are # #divided-by-# # , or # #C suns encircled by at least one planet which is capable of developing and supporting intelligent life. Just for impact, this last sentence means there are # such suns, with such planets capable of life, in existence throughout our Universe, right this moment. This stupendous number of planets in the Universe which display Earth-like conditions demands we answer a clear "yes # to the question of whether intelligent life exists in the Universe, and "yes" again, even when we narrow our field of consideration down to the single, more or less average, galaxy in which our own sun is a very unof others. The above figures show that, in our own galaxy alone -- just in our own Milky Way -- there are # #divided-by-# # , or apare likely to have planets which resemble Mother Earth with regard to conditions for life. Even if Nature should have only # success in developing intelligent life where conditions are favorable, we would still have to expect a minimum of a thousand planets gifted with intelligent life here in our own galaxy. Conclusion: The existence of intelligent life within the Universe, and within our own Milky Way galaxy is beyond doubt. Intelligent life in our planetary system? Within our Solar System, the climates of the four inner planets are fairly well known; i.e., Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars. Mars would appear to be the most feasible object for close study by human space expeditions, after they have reached our neighbor Moon. In comparing its climatological conditions with those of Earth, many experts may be found leaning over backwards to call them "unliveable". We should not underestimate the tenacity with which life can adjust itself to an enormous span of physical and chemical conditions. Man has populated the Earth from the Arctic Ice Gap to the sizzling heat of parched deserts and the soggy drip of brooding jungles, from sea level to the majestic peaks of the Andes. Lowering temperatures, rarification of the atmosphere, and depreciation of chemical resources can be mastered by capable civilizations to an amazing degree, as our still infinitesimal history already shows. The slow increase in the importance of problems seems to produce solutions to solve them. For instance, the decrease of easily available fuels, here on Earth, would eventually have resulted in the detection of nuclear energy sources, even if the Second World War had not brought about peaceful applications of atomic energy almost as a by-product. Therefore, such adjectives as "unliveable", when applied to a planet such as Mars, do not properly take into account the ability of life to adapt itself to changing conditions, particularly to those slow changes which are the result of the normal aging of a planet the size of Mars. Such aging, in the case of Mars, has been vastly more rapid than that of the larger Earth, as shown in the accompanying illustrations; but to our human senses, during the whole span of the existence of human life on Earth, it would have been almost imperceptible. T HE accompanying graphical illustration shows temperature plotted against the passage of time for both Earth and Mars. The dense canopy of primeval clouds, surrounding both hot planets, began to condense to heavy rainstorms after temperatures below #F. were reached -- very early on Mars (after # years) and only # to # years later on Earth. Early forms of primitive life may have evolved shortly after the water temperature passed beyears after "zero time" on Mars, on Earth. At an age of ten to temperature on Mars must have been close to that of the Earth when it reached an age of four billion years. If we assume that organic life developed on Earth after the average surface temperature sank below the coagulation point of protoyears after the birth of the Earth, the gigantic span of three thousand developed species whose residual remains were enduring enough to leave evidence of their existence scattered through the jumble of the upper strata of the Earth's crust in the form of fossils. Only a few of the first insects, ants, termites and bees had already reached an astonishing perfection. In the Eocene, the early Tertiary period, termites had already evolved winged versions to undertake the task of spreading the species by means of the deadly honeymoon flight. In the Oligocene, the existence of sterile 'workers' has been established. With regard to such ancient "archaic" inhabitants of Earth, Man, as such, is a very young newcomer. My graph shows Man at the right-hand end of the time axis, droplet of molten matter started its trajectory around Mother Sun to eventually become the Earth upon which we live. If we could spread the graph in such a way that the time axis would be as long as our distance around the equator of the Earth, then a distance on it of ten kilometers (# miles) would Therefore, only # kilometers, a tiny segment of this circumference, represent the time since a simianlike type of animal learned to walk erectly. In freeing its two front feet from the task of walking, it developed that most agile natural tool, the hand. The span of history from the far-off day of that most ancient primitive root from which the race of modern man has sprung, to the modern day in which we live, is thus seen to cover only a tiny ## of the total history of the planet Earth. And only within the last # years has a more advanced type started to spread over the planet's face... a type for which we have coined the name "Homo Sapiens". These # years correspond, on our expanded graph, to a distance of only # kilometers, out of roughly # for the total history of the planet. On the graph as it is printed, these # years would be represented by a dot less than # #" of an inch in width, which is far too small to be visible to the naked eye. The diameter of the dot for "Man", as years, or one hundred and fifty times the actual life span of the human species on this Earth. Who dares to say that Homo Sapiens will still exist when the steadily creeping time will have covered the full diameter of this little dot on the right-hand comer of the graph? numbers futile! Yet they establish that the time for intelligent life on our own, or other planets is extremely short; so short that any timely coincidence of intelligent life on two or more planets within our small planetary system is highly improbable. By the same logic, it is possible that, at this very time, intelligent life does exist elsewhere in the Universe. To clarify this apparent contradiction, notice that the graph illustrates the results of calculations of the temperature of identical age, as that temperature is influenced by their size only. The two circles illustrate the relative sizes of Earth and Mars which, for rough consideration, have diameters in the ratio of ##. Therefore, by the familiar calculations, Earth possesses # times the surface area of Mars, and # times its volume. These proportions indicate about twice the volume of matter per unit of surface for Earth in comparison to Mars. More exact figures in the graph show that one square mile of Earth surface must radiate the heat stemming from # cubic miles of earthen matter, while one square mile of Martian surface radiates the heat content of only # cubic miles of matter. Neglecting the influence of the different distances of both planets from the Sun, and assuming that heat-capacity, radiancy and nuclear processes are similar in both bodies, the resulting temperatureversus-time curves have been calculated. In the beginning, with both planets at a temperature of around # Fahrenheit, the cooling rate of Earth must have been on the order of #F. per year, and that of Mars about four times as high, #F. per year. Since the possible date for the beginning of protoplasmic life on Earth down to our present day, nearly four billion years have passed, resulting in an average-temperature drop to #F. on Earth, and to #F. for Mars. Even if Martian life succeeded in speeding up its development under the pressure of decreasing temperature and dissipating atmosphere, it must be very much doubted that this rapid development lead to intelligent beings which have managed to survive the enormously long time gap between the age of their first appearance and ours. The statement that Mars is an "old" planet becomes, in the light of these considerations, erroneous. Mars is a planet which is of the same geological age as the Earth, yet which possesses, due to the nature of its geometry, a higher cooling rate. Mars seems to us to be fairly unfavorable to life because of its low mean temperature (-# to-#F.), low density of atmosphere (surface atmospheric pressure on Mars equals that of the Earth at an altitude of eleven miles), rarity of gaseous oxygen (# # content of Mars' atmosphere seems to be # to ## that of Earth), and # m.p.h. sandstorms roaring across its eroded surface. But there is no necessity that a Martian-bom intelligence should feel the same way about his home climate as we do .now, from so far away, and as we still will when human expeditions first set foot on Martian soil. It is quite possible that intelligent beings years of evolution on Mars since the establishment of life on that planet, but that they died out under the pressure of increasingly severe climatological conditions, and have been gone for uncounted ages. The result of these conclusions is that the first expeditions which Man succeeds in throwing out to Mars will not, upon setting foot upon that barren planet, find traces of former civilization. Only after long and very detailed studies, and with equipment which will require several transits between Earth and Mars, might they possibly detect traces of former intelligent life, should such traces have survived accidentally or intentionally some chemical and physical attack by the natural forces of their environment. Not a single human product of today would be able to survive the ravages of such a tremendous length of time, in any form sufficient for some intelligent explorer of the faroff dim future to identify it as an artifact, or relic of our present civilization. The five thousand years since Cheops built his pyramid are not worth mentioning in this context. Even the twenty thousand years since the first crude Neolithic culture represent only ## of that gigantic span by which Martian culture may have preceded us. It would not be too surprising if, after centuries of careful studies on Mars, we may find that, if once there were Martians, they may have chosen to emigrate, rather than to die, to some other part of the Solar System and in doing so by-passed Earth because of her unfavorable climate for the Martian emigrant. The decades to come will increase and refine our knowledge about the climates of the planets in our Solar System. And, since the escape velocity of a space-bound rocket ship is only # m.p.h., or # times that of the two-stage Bumper fired several years ago (V # plus Wac Corporal), mankind will solve the problems of travel through space to the Moon, and then to Mars, within a short time. Yet the minimum energy route of # days for a one-way trip to Mars, or that to Venus, as she circles in her even that to the broiling Sunward face of Mercury, might be called still in the rubber band class, when compared to the task of spanning the tremendous distances between Earth and Jupiter and the other outer planets. Jupiter protects himself by this great distance from us (the one-way trip would require two years and nine months with the same techniques sufficient to cover the Earth-Mars run) and by his formidable gravity, which would necessitate an escape velocity of # m.p.h., or more than five times that necessary to leave Earth. An unmeasurable period of technological development will therefore be necessary -- as well as the development of propulsion methods completely unforeseeable today -- before mankind will find it possible to touch even the inmost of the outer planets, or one of their many satellites. Light covers the distance from the Sun to Jupiter in four minutes and thirty seconds. Yet it must travel # years to reach our nextdoor-neighbor sun within the galaxy. Only if it were possible for Man to span distances of many thousands of light-years in his explorations would a decent statistical chance evolve for him to encounter extraterrestrial intelligent life. This fact must be taken at face value, in spite of the great number of suns, even in our own galaxy, with planets on which intelligent life will have existed and died, may be active now, or will evolve in future. With these conclusions in mind, we can now answer our basic questions. We can predict that within the entire range of Mankind's future existence as a living species of this Earth, any chance for his physical contact with intelligent life outside this Solar planetary system is impossible, even though the chances for the existence of such remote-in-space, but congruent-in-time intelligent life are so high as to be beyond doubt. Whatever chances there are for Man to encounter intelligent life are limited to this planetary system which surrounds our own Sun ; and, for an extremely long period, to the inner planets alone. Unfortunately, the chances for the existence of any intelligent life on the inner planets, within the time-span of Man, would appear to be on the order of nil. But when did Man ever cast the die of his future according to logic. He will go and look.    It was a war of survival. Children against, old men. And not a chance in the world to bridge T H E chasm ing gray with fatigue under the wrinkled brown. He was beginning to get that deadly catching pain in his left chest. But he forced himself to move again, his ragged dusty uniform of the old Home Guard blending into the rubble the way a lizard merges with sand. He hobbled behind a pile of masonry and peered through the crack. He angled his bald head, listening. His hands never really stopped quivering these days and the automatic rifle barrel made a fluttering crackle on the concrete. He lowered the barrel, then wiped his face with a bandanna. He'd thought he heard a creeping rustle over there. But he didn't see any sign of the Children. He'd been picked to reconnoiter because his eyes were only comparatively good. The truth was he couldn't see too well, especially when the sun reflecting on the flat naked angles of the ruined town made his eyes smart and water and now his head was beginning to throb. A dust devil danced away whirling a funnel of dust. Sal Lemmon looked at it, and then he slid from behind the rubble and moved along down the shattered block, keeping to the wall of jagged holes and broken walls that had once been the Main Street of a town. He remembered with a wry expression on his face that he had passed his ninety-fourth birthday eight days back. He had never thought he could be concerned with whether he lived to see his ninety-fifth, because there had always been the feeling that by the time he was ninety-four he would have made his peace with himself and with whatever was outside. He moved warily, like a dusty rabbit, in and out of the ruins, shrinking through the sun's dead noon glare. He stopped, and crouched in the shade behind a pile of slag that had once been the iron statue of some important historical figure. He contacted Captain Murphy on the walkie-talkie. "Don't see any signs of Children." "Max said he saw some around there," Murphy yelled. "Max's getting too old. Guess he's seeing things." "He saw them right around there somewhere." "Haven't seen him either." "We haven't heard another word from Max here, Sal." The old man shrugged. "How could the Children have gotten through our post defenses?" He looked away down the white glare of the street. "You're supposed to be finding out," Murphy yelled. He had a good voice for a man two months short of being a hundred. He liked to show it off. Then Sal thought he saw an odd fluttery movement down the block. "I'll report in a few minutes," he said, and then he edged along next to the angled wall. A disturbed stream of plaster whispered down and ran off his shoulder. Near the comer, he stopped. "Max," he said. He whispered it several times. "Max... that you, Max?" He moved nearer to the blob on the concrete. Heat waves radiated up around it and it seemed to quiver and dance. He dropped the walkie-talkie. There wasn't even enough left of Max to take back in or put under the ground. He heard the metallic clank and the manhole cover moved and then he saw them coming up over the edge. He ran and behind him he could hear their screams and cries and their feet striking hard over the blisters, cracks, and dried out holes in the dead town's skin. He dodged into rubble and fell and got up and kept on running. The pain was like something squeezing in his belly, and he kept on running because he wanted to live and because he had to tell the others that the Children were indeed inside the post defenses. He knew now how they had come in. Through the sewers, under the defenses. He began to feel and hear them crawling, digging, moving all over beneath the ruins, waiting to come out in a filthy screaming stream. Sal was still resting in the comer of the old warehouse by the river. A lantern hung on a beam and the dank floor was covered with deep moving shadows. Captain Murphy was pacing in a circle, looking like something sewn quickly together by a nervous seamstress. Doctor Cartley sat on a canvas chair, elbows on knees, chin in his hands. He kept looking at the floor. He was in his early eighties and sometimes seemed like a young man to Sal. His ideas maybe. He thought differently about the Children and where things were going. "We're going to get out tonight," Captain Murphy said again. "We'll get that barge loaded and we'll get out." Sal sat up. The pills had made his heart settle down a bit, and his hands were comparatively calm. "Is the barge almost loaded now? It better be," Sal said. "They'll attack any minute now. I know that much." "Another hour's all we need. If they attack before then we can hold them off long enough to get that barge into the river. Once we get into the river with it, we'll be safe. We can float her down and into the sea. Somewhere along the coast we'll land and wherever it is will be fine for us. We'll have licked the Children. They know we've found the only eatable food stores in God knows how many thousands of miles in this goddamned wasteland. They can't live another month without this stuff, and we're taking it all down the river. That's right isn't it, Doc?" Cartley looked up. "But as I said before, squeezing a little more life out of ourselves doesn't mean anything to me. What do we want to get away and live a little longer for? It doesn't make sense, except in a ridiculous selfish way. So we live another month, maybe six months, or a year longer? What for?" Sal glanced at Murphy who finally sat down. "We want to live," Murphy said thickly, and he gripped his hands together. "Survival. It's a natural law." "What about the survival of the species?" Cartley asked. "By running out and taking the food, we're think I'll be with you, Murphy." "What are you going to do? Stay here? They'll torture you to death. They'll do to you what they did to Donaldson, and all the others they've caught. You want to stay for that kind of treatment?" "We ought to try. Running off, taking all this food, that means they're sure to die inside a few weeks. They might catch a few rats or birds, but there aren't even enough of those around to sustain life beyond a few days. So we kill the future just so we can go on living for a little longer. We've got no reason to live when we know the race will die. My wife refused to fight them. They killed her, that's true, but I still think she was right. We've got to make one more attempt to establish some kind of truce with the Children. If we had that, then we might be able to start building up some kind of relationship. The only way they can survive, even if they had food, is to absorb our knowledge. You know that. Without our knowledge and experience, they'll die anyway, even if they had a thousand years of food supplies." "It can't be done," Murphy said. Cartley looked at the shadows for a long time. Finally he shook his head. "I don't have any idea how to do it. But we should try. We can't use discipline and power because we're too weak. And too outnumbered. We'd have to do that first in order to teach them, and we can't. So there has to be some other way." "Faith?" Sal said. He shook his head. "They don't believe in anything. You can't make any appeal to them through faith, or ethics, any kind of code of honor, nothing like that. They're worse than animals." Cartley stood up wearily and started to walk away. "They hate us," he said. "That's the one thing we're sure of. We're the means and they're the ends. We made them what they are. They're brutalized and motivated almost completely by hatred. And what's underneath hatred?" He turned back toward Murphy. "Fear." Sal stood up. "I never thought of them as being afraid," he said. "That doesn't matter," Murphy said. "It's the hate and vicious brutality we have to deal with. You do whatever you want to do, Cartley. We've voted, and we've voted to move the stuff out tonight on the barge. The world we helped make is dead, Cartley. The Children grew up in a world we killed. We've all got bad consciences, but we can't do anything about it. The chasm between them and us is too wide. It was wide even before the bombs fell. And the bombs made it a hell of a lot wider. Too wide to put any kind of bridge across now." "Just the same, we ought to die trying," Cartley said. When he went outside, Sal followed him. The barge was about loaded. All outer defense units had been pulled in and were concentrated on the head of the pier behind walls of sandbags. Burp guns and machine guns were ready, and the barge lay along the side of the pier in the moonlight like a dead whale. There were several sewer openings near the head of the pier. Men were stationed around these sewers with automatic rifles, hand grenades and flame throwers. Sal walked to where Cartley stood leaning against the partly closed door of the rotting warehouse. Jagged splinters of steel and wood angled out against the sky. After a while, Sal said softly, "Well, what could we try to do, Doc?" Cartley turned quickly. Some of the anguish in his eyes had gone away, and he gripped Sal's shoulders in hands surprisingly strong for so old a man. "You want to help me try?" "Guess I do. Like you said, we only have a little time left anyway. And if we can't help the Children, what's the good of it?" They stood there in the shadows a while, not saying anything. "This way," Cartley said. He led Sal down away from the pier and along the water's edge. Dry reed rustled, and mud squished under their shoes. "Here," Cartley said. There was a small flat-bottomed rowboat, and in it were several cartons of food supplies, all in cans. There were also several large tins of water. "We'll need a little time," Cartley said. "We'll have to wait. I figure we'll row upstream maybe a few hundred yards, and hole up in one of those caves. We can watch, Sal. We can watch and wait and try to figure it out." "Sure," Sal said. "That seems the only way to start." Cartley sat down on the bank near the boat, and Sal sat down too. "The Children," Cartley said, "never had a chance to be any other way. But we're the oldsters, and we've got this obligation, Sal. Man's a cultural animal. He isn't bom with any inherent concepts of right, or wrong, or good or bad, or even an ability to survive on an animal level. We have to be taught to survive by the elders, Sal. And we're the elders." He hesitated, "We're the only ones left." A flare of horrid light exploded over the warehouse down river and it lit up Cartley's face and turned it a shimmering crimson. His hands widened to perfect roundness and he raised his hands in a voiceless scream to stop the sudden explosions of burp guns, grenades, machine guns, and rifles. Looking down river then, Sal could see the flames eating up through the warehouse. The pier, the barge, everything for a hundred square yards was lit up as bright as day, and the flare spread out over the river and made a black ominous shadow of the opposite bank. "They're getting away," Cartley said. Sal watched the barge move out. The Children came screaming out of the blazing warehouse, overran the pier, streamed into the water. But a steady blast of fire from the barge drove them back, and in a few more minutes the barge dissolved downriver into darkness. Cartley's hands were shaking as he gripped Sal's arm. "Let's go now. We need time. Time may help us a lot, Sal. We can wait and watch. We can figure something out." Sal heard the screams and mocking savage cries coming up over the water, and then the jagged cries of some oldsters who hadn't managed to get away. Still looking downstream toward the blazing pier, Sal pushed Cartley into the rowboat, and they shoved off. Sal started rowing, but he kept looking back. "They should have put them in the same shelters with us," Sal said, "that would have made a difference. But they put us in separate shelters." Only the oldest and the youngest had been saved. The old out of pity and because they were helpless, had been granted the safety of shelters. The young because they were the symbols of hope had been granted shelters, too. "No," Cartley said. "It started long before that. The chasm was building up long before the war. This alienation between the young and the old. Between the sun and ( Continued on page #I ) WMML Hurtling through space to meet the enemy in equipment too delicate to step on, without enough fuel to get back, and knowing you're completely expendable is just for a room, screaming off the metal their flat, metallic clang. Gressey its checkerboard to the floor. Running to the suitlocker, he wondered if the bells had to be loud enough to jar a man's mind. The other on-duty men in the wardroom were running with him, and the corridor outside reverberated to the sound of pounding feet on metal. As his hand automatically manipulated the zippers on his G-suit, he noticed that his heart was beating furiously. At this point, Gressey had never been able to tell whether he was frightened or not. As far as he could know from what his belly told him, there was no physical difference between plain old chicken fear and the body's normal preparation for action. The men pounded 'up' the metal stairs to the Hornet's Nest on the satellite's rim. The Hornet's Nest. Cressey thought suddenly how irrational it was. When a nickname stuck, it carried its aura to everything around it. He didn't know what live-wire journalist had first used the name Hornets for the Primary Interceptor Command, but now, inevitably, the launching racks were Hornet's Nests and the sleek missiles Stingers. He suddenly felt slightly nauseated. He hated this light-headed, slightly sick feeling, listening to the roaring of blood in his head and the thundering of his heart. The medics had told him these physical symptoms were just nature's way of preparing the body for sudden activity. Cressey didn't know. It felt like fear to him, and he was afraid now. and when he reached it the Stingers were just coming up the loading elevators. Long, slim, twentyfoot pencils of death, glistening in the harsh glare of the overheads. They had their own sort of lethal beauty, those Stingers, and a power about them, as if they were quiescently submitting to these puny men for now, for their own mechanical reasons. Each Hornet carried two Stingers, slung beneath the stubby deltawings. The Stingers were twice the length of the Hornet itself, projecting fore and aft of the ship for five feet in either direction. The Hornet looked ungainly, riding atop those slim needles, like some grotesque parasite hitching a ride on two silver arrows. They're -- quite small. Who had said that? Mackley. Captain Mackley, the glib Information Officer who'd told Cressey everything he was allowed to know about Hornets before he saw one. I'll be frank with you, Mr. Cressey. Strategic Command has Hornets listed not as aircraft, but as portable launching racks. Their job is to take Stingers to the Outspace ships. There's a man in them because we can't build a computer as efficient as man at such light weight. And we couldn't afford to if we had the necessary knowledge. Cressey remembered his shock at being told he was a light-weight computer, and some of the bitterness. He watched the loading crew lock the Stingers into position beneath the Hornet's wings and throw the hooked boarding ladder over the edge of the cockpit. Cressey mounted past the red-painted settled himself in the cramped cockpit. As the crew carried the ladder away, he flipped the switch by his left hand and listened to the hum as the canopy rolled forward and locked into place with a metalwearily. His own god-damned life, entrusted to a piece of equipment too delicate to step on. He swung the fish-bowl over his head and locked it into place. He coupled the hose leading from his right hip to a similar hose which disappeared into the floor of the cockpit, and partially inflated his suit. No detectable leaks. If his check crew had done their job, he was ready. Opening the communications channel, he listened to the other 'hot' Hornets checking off. "#." "Ready out." "#." "Ready out." "#." "Ready sir. Out." "#." "My fuel gauge doesn't register, sir." "Scratch #. #." "Ready out," replied Cressey. He wondered what was wrong with #. No fuel? Or gauge just out of whack somehow? The way the Hornets were built, you could never be sure of anything. They were made for one trip, no more. No matter how the intercept worked out, they never went home again. There was not much money wasted in their construction. Mackley had easily justified that, too. Cressey, you must understand one thing . We are desperate . The Out spacers caught us totally unprepared, and some of the measures we must resort to are not what we would normally desire , When the Outspacers came into the system, six years ago, we had only two manned satellites in operation, Within two years this was increased to six, and it was still inadequate, For this reason, another ring of stations was set up, this time one-man Detector Posts . There are twelve of them, two reporting to each Satellite Base . Their of bit is roughly half-way between the orbits of Earth and Mars . T wo concentric circles about the Earth, do you see? When an Outspacer crosses D-line, a signal is flashed to the nearest Satellite Base and the Hornets launched. The point Tm trying to make, Cressey, is this: it took nearly forty years to set up the first manned satellite, and that after all the means were in our hands. Then, in just over two years, we put up four more satellites and twelve D-Posts. We were not geared for that effort. Translated into personal terms, Mackley had meant that the planet could not afford to enclose Cressey in an adequate ship. Too much would be lost if the Outspacer weapons caught it. The loading crew had retreated into the sealed cubicle from which they would watch the launching. The huge, curved walls of the hull began to roll back, and even in the cockpit, Cressey could hear the air roar out into space with a brief explosion of sound. The air hissed out of his cockpit, and his suit inflated full. Still no leak. He felt a momentary panic as the launching rack swung him out, pointed away from the Satellite directly into the emptiness of space. Now he could not see the reassuring bulk of the mother ship. He was alone, with only the incredible myriads of stars before him, and the two needle points of the Stingers projecting full into their mass. The tens of thousands of bright specks that seemed so close gave no comfort. His eyes told him space was full, crammed to bursting with stars, and his mind told him it was as empty as death. Pointed out into loneliness, riding the two graceful arrows, Cressey heard the Communicator rasp, "Gentlemen, you are on an intercept to an Outspace ship. The safety of your world rides with you. Do your job well. ,, The hypocritical son-of-a-bitch, thought Cressey angrily, sitting in his snug control room telling us to do our job! Well, maybe it made an impression on the first-timers, he couldn't remember. This was his third, and he could no longer remember any farther back than when he climbed into the cockpit. It was better not to remember his other missions, much better. The roar seemed to come a split second before the pressure, and then Cressey was slammed into his acceleration cradle by the sudden impact. His body suddenly weighed over a thousand pounds, and his blood sloshed wearily in his veins as a straining heart refused to pump such a load. "Captain Mackley ," said Cressey, "I've heard it said that Earth is the aggressor in this war." "Have you ever seen the London Crater ?" asked the Information Officer . "Pictures, yes, but what I want to know is, who attacked first?" "It doesn't really matter, does it Cressey? There is a war, and we've got to fight it, no matter how it started." "Yes sir ," said Cressey, "but I wanted to know" "All right, I'll tell you then . The Outspacers contacted this system roughly six years ago . The first eighteen months they spent on the outer planets . During the second year they came in as far as Mars, and established a base there. Six months later, one of their ships left on an obvious course toward Earth . It was destroyed by a missile launched from Satellite II." Mackley shrugged. "You know the rest . They retaliated. Satellite II was vaporized ." "But Earth fired first?" "I told you, it doesn't make any difference now. One Outspacer later got through the defense rings, and now there's nothing from London to Cambridge but glass. Whatever the hell they use for weapons, they're effective." "So we don't know whether or not they were originally hostile ." "No, we don't. It had to be assumed they were. We were not in a position to make allowances. You must realize , Cressey, we were dealing with something totally unprecedented, a completely unknown force. Common sense is enough to tell you the Outspacer had to be considered inimical to us, until proven otherwise." "They weren't given much of a chance to prove it." "That may be. The point is irrelevant at the moment. We are committed to a line of action, and we must follow it through. On their part, the Outspacers are doing the same." Cressey was silent for a moment, and Mackley continued in a softer voice . "Look here, son . I don't have to tell you all this . J could just as easily shoot you full of starry eyed patriotism and send you out to save the world from the BugEyed Monsters, but the military isn't doing things that way any more . There is a possibility that we've made a mistake, I'll admit that, but we're stuck with the consequences of the original action . We're defending our planet with everything we've got. The Hornets are the only weapon that has proven even remotely effective." " I'll have to think it over, Captain." "Of course," said Mackley. "It's not an easy decision to make. Come back again, any time you like, and we'll talk it over some more." And Cressey had gone back. abated, and Cressey's face resumed its normal shape. The red haze in front of his eyes cleared, and he could see out through his canopy again. The thick blanket of stars remained motionless, though he knew he was moving with tremendous speed toward the Outspace ship. In front of him behind the instrument panel, he could hear the insect-like buzzing as his course computer was fed information from his Base Satellite. With both the outer D-Post and the Satellite tracking the enemy, fairly precise positioning was possible. Unfortunately, because of the enormous distances involved, not precise enough to pinpoint the Stingers themselves. You had to be closer to do that, and the way to get closer was in a Hornet. For a few minutes now, Cressey had only to watch his own scope for the first pip, and consider his insane position. It was his third mission. Of nearly a thousand Hornetmen, forty-three had more than one mission. If he got out of this one, he had two more before compulsory retirement. He was not sure he could go two more missions, even if he survived physically. Five missions, then retirement. It had looked good to him, a year ago. When he left college for Primary Interceptors, it had seemed the very best kind of an idea. Five missions as a Hometman, then home. Home as a hero, as a king. At twenty-one he would never have to worry about anything again. The pension Mackley had mentioned was so high as to be inconceivable. And that was just from the government. Being a hero had other, less official compensations. A shack in Beverly Hills, worth a hundred thousand or so? Hell, they'd force it on him, just for being a hero. A woman? What woman could resist a five-mission Hornetman? Every daydream he'd ever had, and a hundred he'd not thought of, free for nothing. Or free for running five intercepts. It had looked good to him until his first mission. Then it had suddenly lost its charm. He had learned why, so far, there were no fivemission Hometmen. Abruptly he heard the "ping" telling him his radar was tracking. The Satellite had guided him true enough. He was within the limited range of his own radar. "Radar contact made," he said into the lip mike. "# going on manual control. Out." He clicked the Com switch and settled down to fixing on his target. From the size of the blip on the screen, he could see the Outspace ship was huge, as all of them were. Funny, there had not even been enough contact to know how many different sorts of ship the Alien had. They were not battleships, nor cruisers, nor anything else specific. They were simply Outspace, and he had to seek them out and destroy them. A single ship, as usual. He wondered why they had never sent more than one ship at a time. Perhaps their thinking was so completely foreign it had never occurred to them. No one knew anything about how they thought, except that they retaliated when attacked. Cressey wondered how the conflict looked through Outspacer eyes. Perhaps they were completely bewildered by attack. Perhaps those god-awful disruptor beams were meant for some other, more peaceful purpose, and were being pressed into use as an emergency weapon by "frightened beings. It was even possible the aliens did not know they were under attack by sentient creatures, and wrote off the loss of their ships to natural calamity of some unknown nature. There were a thousand maybes. It useless to speculate in the total absence of data. You couldn't be sure of anything, so you couldn't take any chances. You hadto act as though they were hostile just to be on the safe side. The malignant neurosis of humanity, making it behave as though all things unknown were dangerous. Or perhaps just realistic thinking. You couldn't know, unless you knew all about the universe. Perhaps the idea of conscious animosity was incomprehensible to the Outspacers, but there was no way to tell. He reached between his legs to the cockpit floor and threw the switches there, arming the Stinger warheads. On his first mission he had actually gotten within visual range of the Outspace ship, launching the Stingers at not more than three miles range. The ship had been bulky, almost grotesque by his own standards, covered with lumps and bulges of indeterminate purpose. There had been no lights visible, no ports. Perhaps the Aliens did not see in our spectrum, or perhaps they had radiation screens across the ports, there was no way to tell. Cressey smiled ruefully. This miserable war was turning him into a philosopher. On his second mission he had not seen his target. He had launched at six miles, out of fear, trusting to the followers in the Stingers' noses to track. He did not know what the result had been either time. He had turned and run for home at full acceleration, and he fully intended to do the same on this mission. There was such a thing as pushing your luck too far, and he needed all he had. The pip on his screen drifted to the left, and he gave a short burst to center it He begrudged haittg to use his infinitesimal fuel on tracking when he needed it so desperately to go home. He looked through the canopy, but saw nothing, and returned his eyes to the screen. The telltale pip had drifted slightly to the right. He had overcorrected. Cursing, he fired another burst, shorter this time, with the left bank, and watched the pip center. That was good enough. His ranging said only twelve . miles, his speed two mps, relative to target. One second, two seconds, three -- there it was, occulting a tiny area of star patched sky. Out of the corner of his eye he saw a bright flare as some other Hornet disappeared in the wave of energy released by its molecular disruption. Then another, in another quadrant. The Alien was fighting back. He jabbed violently at the Stinger release, and saw the two pencils roar fiercely out ahead of him on their own power. He cut his flimsy launching rack into as tight a turn as it would take. The familiar red haze clouded his vision, and just before blacking out he fired another last long burst on the rockets to head him toward home. "You understand ," said Mackley , "that the amount of fuel we can pack into a Hornet is severely limited by the size of the craft. There is not enough to perform the complicated braking maneuvers necessary to return to the Satellite . "Therefore, the Hornets make no attempt to return to the Satellite from which they were launched . Instead, they return directly to Etirth. This may sound contradictory, but remember that the planet has a heavy envelope of air, which the Satellite Bases, of course, have not . We use that air to brake the ships, through friction " "But Captain, wouldn't the Hornet burn as soon as it touched atmosphere ?" "Ordinarily, if it plunged directly in, yes. But there are techniques for slowing your flight through friction without heating excessively . Basically, the operation is the same as skipping a flat stone on a lake . The Hornet actually only skims the atmosphere, entering at a very shallow angle. The entire deltawing of the ship is a control surface . That much area, even at such extreme heights, gives a certain amount of control, and the pilot can pull up out of the atmosphere again before heating has become too extreme . He has also been considerably slowed by the same friction which causes the heating. Do you follow me?" "Yes, I suppose so, but it seems pretty tricky ."  "It is tricky, Cressey, and you never want to forget it. It takes a very considerable amount of piloting skill, but it can be done." "Captain, how many Hornets do you lose trying to get in like that?" Mackley hesitated momentarily. "Our losses are right around thirtyseven percent. That's due to enemy fire. It's high, but under the circumstances, it isn't extreme. We're fighting at a disadvantage, and combat is not a gentle affair. Men's lives are lost. That's been true ever since two cave men took after each other with stone axes. It was true with hows and arrows and muzzle loaders. It was true with tanks and machine guns , and it is true now. "It is expected in a combat situation that men will die. One of the aims of military strategy has always been to keep as many of your own men alive as possible . This has not changed either. But combat is, after all, combat; and there are some unavoidable risks" " What's the total loss , Captain? I mean from enemy action and from the hazards of this skip approach you were talking about?" The Information Officer stared at Cressey for what seemed like a long time before he answered. "Our total losses, Mr. Cressey, are roughly ninety-three percent." consciousness, the Earth was of vision. He could not estimate his distance, though he thought he was within the Satellite ring. His speed would plunge him into atmosphere shortly, too shortly. Within seconds he began to feel the warmth as he entered the region where a few air molecules began to brush over the surfaces of his ship. He rotated the delta-wings full, but there was no response. He was not yet deep enough into the sea of air for the control surfaces to react. He watched the tips of the wings, so ridiculously close to him, though he knew he would not be able to see anything. Soon he begap to feel a gentle bucking motion as the wings met resistance. He flattened them out, horizontal, and began to draw them up again slowly, so they would move the tiny ship upward instead of simply tearing off at the roots. The heat was already uncomfortable, and he was slowing. Now he was pressed forward against the seat belt as deceleration increased. The control surfaces bit into the thin air more solidly now, and Cressey thought the nose had come up a bit, but it was so slight he couldn't be sure. The bucking motion was more pronounced, but there was nothing he could do about that. Slowly, slowly. The wings had to tilt so very slowly, or they would be ripped from the pod-like hull, leaving it to plummet into thick air and glow briefly like a cigarette in the dark before it plunged down to earth. His face was wet behind the fishbowl, but he could not reach it to wipe the sweat away. Nor could he have taken his hands away from the controls in any case. The nose had come up, he was certain of that now. He was definitely rising, but the heat was becoming unbearable. Imperceptibly, a thin shrieking had arisen in the cabin, almost out of sonic range, just enough to make a man's nerves feel as if they had been dragged across a rough file. The heat transmitted through the body of the pod and into the bucket was beginning to bum his legs. He was being held out of the seat itself by the force of his deceleration, but the backs of his calves still touched metal. He thought he could smell the fabric of his suit burning, but realized it was probably his overwrought imagination. His cheeks felt too large, puffed out, as though strong, implacable hands were pulling all his loose flesh forward. His eyes strained forward, threatening to come out of their sockets. The red haze began, and he had a sudden frightening thought that he might lose consciousness before the Hornet had well begun its rise out of atmosphere. The red darkened into black. He regained consciousness. The first skip had been made. The ship began to settle back into atmosphere again, and now its speed was lower. With each pass the heat would become more intense, as the plane would not have a chance to cool completely before it began to heat again. He had to maintain a delicate balance between going deep enough to slow him, but not so deep he couldn't bring the ship up before it burned, cherry-red. His body was drenched as by a shower, and the inner lining of his suit felt soggy from sweat. The second skip was worse than the first, and he lost consciousness almost too soon. The third was worse than the second. After the fourth, he could not lift high enough to clear atmosphere. He had gone too deep, and was now bound by the great mass of Earth below. He was still at a shallow angle, relative to the ground. He estimated he would make at least one complete orbit, perhaps two, before his spiralling trajectory brought him to the contact point on the surface. If he were still conscious, he would leave the aircraft at # feet, and hope. He knew his speed was still too high, well over Mach #, higher than it had been on either of his other approaches The ship was threatening to tear apart under the furious pounding it was taking from air and shock waves. Hobson's choice. Bail out high, and suffocate because the automatic chute release would not allow him to make a delayed opening. Bail out low, and the thick air would pound his body to a pulp, and below the steel webbed chute would hang nothing but a suit, full of a still, red messiness. The timing had to be precision itself, but it had to be done by guesswork. There was no training that could prepare a man for this. It was all new. He uncoupled the air hose leading to his suit, and placed his hand on the ejector lever. He knew he was too high, but the wings showed quivering signs of buckling under the strain. He pulled the lever, releasing the canopy and arming the seat cartridge. The canopy disappeared miraculously from over his head. He was deafened by the thunderous roar of air that entered the cramped cockpit, like an explosion peak that remained constant, not diminishing. Instinctively, he ducked his head, recoiling at the sound. He did not remember triggering the seat ejector. Cressey fell. The seat dropped away from him, the incredibly strong parachute opened, all automatically. He fell forty-five thousand feet into the Pacific Ocean, (Continued on page #) You don't like Darwin's theory of Evolution? Maybe you're right. Maybe Man's ancestors weren't monkeys after all... H OW DO you get rid of a superman? The method Masefield Truggles used was the tried-and-true Masefield Truggles method. Of course, he didn't know at the beginning that Blan Forsythe was a superman. But Forsythe had lived in Marston Hill most of his life -- born there, in fact -- while Truggles had been there only two years. So Truggles gave the case the full treatment with flourishes, including a careIllustrated by Paul Orban ful reconnaissance to determine vulnerable spots in Forsythe's reputation. Truggles determined that reform or removal of Forsythe would be his contribution to the moral welfare of Marston Hill as soon as he heard the rumors, some joking, some serious, about Forsythe's polygamous tendencies. This was a ready-made situation for Truggles. Truggles began his research with Forsythe's ex-wife, Phyllis Allison. He had learned from experience that an ex-wife usually is a good source of information about vulnerable spots. She served him tea in the parlor of her modest home. After a routine round of chit-chat designed to put her at ease, Truggies approached the point. "As you may know, Mrs. Allison, I am president of our Social Standards Protective League," he said, fixing his deep blue eyes on her face. "I've heard of it, Mr. Truggies," she said in a low voice. "My duties at home keep me too busy to belong to any organizations, though." As if to emphasize her point, she put her arm around the shoulders of her young son. The boy sat quietly beside her, watching Truggies like a young animal. Truggies figured he must be about five years old -- certainly he would be below school age, for school was in session -- but he was big for his age. There was something disturbing about his intent gaze. "I'm not here in the interest of your joining the League, Mrs. Allison, though we'd be glad to have you," said Truggies. "I came to ask you for some confidential information about the shameful way your former husband mistreated you." Her eyes opened wide. "Why, Blan never mistreated me!" she exclaimed. "Whoever told you such a thing? I loved Blan, and he loved me. I still love him." "If he loved you, why did he leave you?" demanded Truggies triumphantly. "I think you're asking questions about something that isn't any of your business, Mr. Truggies," said Phyllis Allison, her eyes flashing ominously. "Blan Forsythe is... different. We agreed to separate because it appeared I could give him no children. We were wrong, but it was too late, then." "So he turned to polygamy through a mad desire to produce children," murmured Truggies happily. "You say you were wrong? I thought the boy was your only child." "Donald is my only child, but he is Blan's child," said Phyllis, patting the boy on the shoulder. Truggies raised bushy eyebrows. "Wasn't it seven years ago you and Mr. Forsythe were divorced?" he asked pointedly. "Yes, and Donald is only five," she answered defiantly. "My husband -- Dr. Allison -- tells me I'm foolish to have the feeling I do that Donald is Blan's son. He says it's impossible. But I know it's true. I've been working with Donnie, and, Mr. Truggies..." She leaned forward intently and fixed her gaze gravely on Truggies' face. "... Donnie has the Power!" she said in a tense whisper. Truggies blinked. Phyllis Allison sat back and looked embarrassed, as though she had not intended to confide so much. Truggies asked no more questions. He did not pursue the line of inquiry this revelation at once brought to mind. He took his leave as graciously as possible and left the house. He knew that both Phyllis Allison and her son watched him as he walked out the door with shoulders bent in a show of humility. But it wks the boy's eyes he felt. Phyllis Allison. The fresh memory of her slender beauty, her wide, honest eyes, struck pain in Truggles' heart. They were rare -- but why did he seem to run across them so often? -- these women who reminded him of her. His lost love, his long-lost love, the smiling fairy with the dancing heart, without whom life never had been quite complete again. The woman really believed the boy was Blan Forsythe's child. It was pathetic. And that reference to Donald's having "the power:" Truggles wondered how many women he had known who thought their sons were "different," who even convinced themselves that the children had been sired by a dream prince or such like. Deluded souls, to so excuse their sins! He straightened and ran his fingers through his short-clipped gray hair as he strode along the walk. The extensive lawn of Blan Forsythe's mansion stretched only two doors away from the bungalow he had just left. It was decked with flower beds and evergreens. Truggles was too circumspect to do anything openly at this stage. But he shook a fist at the stone pile, mentally. Behind him, Truggles had a record of nothing but successes. There had been the alcoholic in Han town, the Negro fortuneteller in New Bacon, the member of some queer religious sect in Steckleville. Truggles had set his face against them. He had shown the people of these towns what manner of creatures they harbored in their bosoms. They had been driven out (it was unfortunate, in a way, that the alcoholic had been hit by a brick and killed in the confusion of public reaction, but such accidents happen) ; and eventually Truggles himself, purring inwardly at the consciousness of a job well done, had moved on to fields of further effort. Blan Forsythe was not big enough to escape his righteousness. If the mayor of Marston Hill would cooperate, it would save Masefield Truggles a lot of work and possibly some unpleasantness for everyone. Sometimes mayors did cooperate, especially when elections weren't far off. Truggles was not offended that Mayor Ben Sands received him in the garden of his home on the edge of town. He had known many fine gentlemen with dirt on their hands who abhorred dirt in the mind. "I haven't seen Blan much lately, but he used to spend a lot of time out here," said Sands, taking his battered pipe from his mouth to speak. "He was interested in the flowers. Those asters, now. They're tetraploid. He developed 'em. Used colchicine." He looked at Truggles inquiringly, to see if he understood. Truggles allowed a smile to quirk his lips and shook his head slightly. "Extract from the autumn crocus," said Sands. "Makes plants tend to double their chromosomes." Around them, the garden was a solid blaze of color. Zinnias, marigolds, phlox cast their colorful bounty to the air. "I'm afraid I'm not much of a horticulturist," apologized Truggles. "Well, it's like this," said Sands. "Every cell of every plant of the same species has the same number of chromosomes -- you know, those bright little threads that hold the guiding genes of growth and development. Mutations in plants come when there are changes in individual genes from time to time. But when you hit them with colchicine, the chromosomes sometimes double without the cell dividing. Creates a new species, usually bigger, stronger, slower growing. Call them tetraploids. I've heard it called 'cataclysmic evolution.' " "You mean man tampers with the basic laws of nature?" asked Truggles, awed and disturbed. "I reckon you could call it that. Lots of plants have been treated that way -- tomatoes, snapdragons, alyssum. Of course, it happens naturally, too. Wheat developed from the crossing of an inferior early species, eink'om, with a wild grass. Einkorn and the grass had seven chromosomes each, but in crossing the chromosomes were doubled. The result was Persian wheat, a superior variety with # chromosomes." Sands took the pipe from his mouth and knocked the ashes out against the sole of his shoe. Pulling a sack of tobacco thoughtfully from his hip pocket, he began to refill it. "Blan had a theory," he said, "that doubling of chromosomes in animals in the past could have given rise to new species and explain a lot of gaps in evolution. Man has # chromosomes in every cell, and Blan pointed out to me that # is double #, which is double #, which is double six, which is double three. He thought that was too much of a coincidence. I reckon I do, too." He paused and struck a wooden match, holding it against the bowl of his pipe and sucking noisily. "I don't hold with the evolutionary theory," said Truggles stiffly. "What I really wanted to ask you, Mayor Sands, was whether you are aware that Blan Forsythe is practicing polygamy, right here in Marston Hill?" "You've been listening to those old hens gossip," accused Sands. "Look, I knew Blan right well when he was married to Phyllis Allison. Phyllis is my niece and I was sorry to see them break up, but the young people have to live their own lives. Blan has some ideas us old stick-in-the-muds might not understand, Mr. Truggles, but he's all right." "A dozen women live with him in that big house of his," insisted Truggles. "I've found out there's a turnover, too. When one moves out, another moves in." "I don't poke my nose into other people's business," said Sands bluntly. "But Dr. Allison tells me Blan maintains a staff, and it's convenient for them to live in that big house. He's doing biological research, along the lines I just explained." "Biological research, I have no doubt," said Truggles, assuming his best organ-like tone. He fixed his blue eyes on Sands, but Sands' eyes were just as blue. They showed a gleam of anger. "You refuse to take any action against this abomination, then, Mayor?" "I refuse to believe idle rumors," said Sands firmly. "And before you attempt to stir things up around here with your Social Standards Protective League, Mr. Truggles, I would recommend that you make some effort to secure accurate information. Dr. Allison is Blan's research assistant, and he can tell you much more of Blan's current experiments than I can." Truggles bowed slightly and turned away. The sharp scent of the marigolds tickled his nostrils, making him want to sneeze. "Dr. Allison," said Sands behind him, raising his voice slightly as Truggles walked away, "may even consent to tell you why Blan Forsythe's face is liver-colored. From what I hear of you, Mr. Truggles, that probably is your principal complaint against him." Truggles straightened as though stabbed between the shoulder blades. He quickened his pace. That had been a telling blow. Could Sands know? No, it was impossible. The recurring waves of time and travel had long since obliterated Truggles' distant past. The Brazilian was a secret demon in his own heart, his private, bitter hatred, the swarthy ogre who had crushed the flower of his life and whose face arose to torment him only in times of bitterness. Sands was an idiot. All of these people in Marston Hill were idiots, letting a man like Forsythe fool them, liking him, looking up to him. They were empty shells, people, to be possessed alike by the strong, whether angel or demon. He, Truggles, would pit his strength against Forsythe. As for Sands... Old fool! Entrenched politician! Truggles had dealt with such civic laxity before. Direct action would be necessary. on the grass the evening Masefield Truggles went again to the Allison home. Dr. Alex Allison, a chubby man with rimless spectacles, admitted him. Truggles caught a glimpse of Phyllis Allison and the boy, Donald, in the kitchen as Allison led him through the dining room. They mounted a short flight of stairs to Allison's study. Allison offered him wine and a cigar. Truggles refused. Allison placed the wine decanter back on the shelf unopened, but lit a cigar and settled back comfortably in his chair. "Well, Mr. Truggles?" he asked briskly, with the air of a man who had no time to waste. Truggles looked him over, assessing him, and decided on the direct attack. "I wonder if you are aware, Dr. Allison," he said softly, "that your employer is breaking up your home?" He waited for the reaction. There was none. Allison puffed calmly on his cigar and waited. The light glinted from his spectacles as he kept his eyes fixed steadily on Truggles' face. "Dr. Allison, your wife confessed to me that she still loves her former husband, Blan Forsythe," said Truggles, emphasizing every word. "I was aware of that," said Allison unconcernedly. "Most women who know Blan are desperately in love with him. Is that all you came to see me about?" He half rose from his chair. Truggles made a hurried gesture of protest. He realized he had tried to move too fast. "No, no," said Truggles hastily. "Forgive me, Dr. Allison, but I was agitated over the situation. What I really came here for was to ask you to give me some information about Mr. Forsythe." "Why?" asked Allison. The flat question caught Truggles unprepared. He was aware that his mouth hung open foolishly as he tried desperately to frame an answer that would not be too revealing. "Why -- I was trying to lay to rest some rumors," he stammered at last. "Mayor Sands said you might tell me something about Mr. Forsythe." Allison was silent for a long minute. He took the cigar from his mouth, knocked half an inch of ash into an ashtray and resumed his puffing. "Mr. Truggles, how much do you know about mice?" Allison asked. Truggles stared at him, unable to answer. This interview was beginning to take on a nightmarish aspect. "What do you consider to be the principal difference between mice and men, Mr. Truggles?" pursued Allison. "Really, Dr. Allison, I don't see -- I don't know what point you're trying to make, but a mouse is an animal and a man is -- well, a man." "Nothing else?" "Well, a man is bigger than a mouse." He began to feel familiar ground under his feet. "A man is bigger more ways than physically. He is bigger spiritually, emotionally. He thinks. He has a -- " "Ben Sands told me about his talk with you. So you don't believe in evolution? You don't believe the ancestors of men and monkeys came from a common stock?" "I do not, sir. It is inconceivable..." "How would mice strike you, then? Would you rather believe that men descended from mice than monkeys?" Again the bewildered Truggles found himself physically incapable of answering. "I have done a great deal of research, with the kind assistance of Blan Forsythe," said Allison precisely. "Blan is my friend. He has been my associate, even my experimental animal. I am preparing a paper on what I consider a revolutionary contribution to the theory of evolution -- that men are related directly to the genus rodentia, and only more distantly so to the primates. "Blan Forsythe is the real originator of this theory, as a result of his very personal interest in sudden evolutionary changes through doubling of chromosomes. It is reasonable to suppose that the ancestor of man himself, with all of his survival advantages, arose through such a process. Man has # chromosomes. Now, Mr. Truggles, what sort of animal would you guess has half that number -- # chromosomes?" "Mice?" hazarded Truggles thinly"Precisely. Mice. The common house mouse. There is also a variety of squirrel that carries # chromosomes. The peromyscus and apode mus families of mice -- and some other animals, including the rhesus monkey -- have # -- cousins whose chromosome doubling eons ago started them up different paths from ours. Mr. Truggles, the ancestor of man was a rodent whose doubled chromosomes gave him new attributes that worked to his evolutionary advantage." "Is that what is called a mutation?" asked Truggles, interested in spite of himself. "Mutation? A mutation is a change in one gene. Men mutate would take simple mutations to build a man from a rodent -- or a lemur, either, for that matter?" "Well, really, Dr. Allison, I believe you misunderstand what I asked you. Your theory is fine, I'm sure, among scientists, but I'm interested in information about Blan Forsythe." "That's what I've given you. Blan Forsythe is a tetraploid man. His cells carry # chromosomes instead of the normal #. Every cell of his body is doubled." "Is that why his skin is livercolored?" asked Truggles, remembering what Sands had said. Allison smiled. "Coincidence," he said. "It's true that liver cells have doubled chromosomes, but that isn't the reason for the color." "What does all this mean, then?" asked Truggles. Allison laid his half-smoked cigar carefully on the edge of the ashtray and gazed at Truggles through his spectacles. "Blan Forsythe is a new species," he said slowly. "He is not man. Everyone has theorized that a superman might arise from a mutation, perhaps caused by radiation. My God, a hundred mutations of individual genes wouldn't make a superman overnight! But Blan Forsythe is one -- a tetraploid man -- a superman." "And what is a superman, Dr. Allison?" asked Truggles drily, thinking of Nietzsche and the Sunday comic strips. "Who knows? How can you and I comprehend the novel qualities, the undreamed-of abilities of such a creature? Do you think a mouse could understand a man's ability to reason, to talk, to build machines? Blan may not realize them himself. After all, he was reared in a human society, and no doubt the tetraploid rodent which is our ancestor seemed little different from his associates. There are two things I'm sure of: the differences are there, and they are qualities you and I could never point to and say, 'This is an ability of the superman. Truggles' mouth twisted in a crooked smile. Allison had allowed his enthusiasm to draw him out. Allison was vulnerable now. "And because this man -- this creature -- is different, you allow him to cuckold you?" he demanded in a low, ugly voice. Allison was not vulnerable. "Don't let Phyllis mislead you," he said quietly. "She thinks Donald is Blan's child because she always yearned to give Blan the child he wanted. Donald was bom two years after they were divorced." "She seems very sure," insinuated Truggles. "It is possible for a tetraploid to be fertile in a mating with a normal diploid," said Allison. "Persian wheat, with # chromosomes, crossed with a grass which has seven chromosomes, to produce common wheat. That was Blan's hope while he and Phyllis were married, and it's still his hope with the others. I was his doctor and associate then, as I am now. Neither Phyllis nor Donald has more than the normal number of chromosomes, and Blan has not seen Phyllis since they were divorced." "What, then, Dr. Allison, is this 'Power' that your wife says the boy has?" Allison's face froze. "That is a family matter, Mr. Truggles," he said icily. "I do not discuss my son's characteristics with strangers. Good night, sir." Truggles saw Phyllis Allison as he left the house. Dr. Allison remained in his study when Truggles left, and Phyllis stepped from the darkened doorway of the dining room as Truggles opened the front door. "Mr. Truggles," she said, placing her hand on his arm, "I don't know what your object is, but don't make any trouble for Blan Forsythe." "My poor child, I am not trying to make trouble for him," said Truggles sadly. "I hope only to convince him that his unfortunate differences do not privilege him to flout the sound social customs of other men. If there is any trouble, it will be made by the man himself." "You'll see him, then?" "Certainly, I intend to try to convince him personally that what he is doing is wrong." She sighed. "I wish I could see him again," she murmured. For this unhappy woman's sake if for no other reason, it would certainly be the thing to do to talk to Forsythe himself, Truggles thought as he left the house. The anticipation had a certain zest to it. Besides, Truggles believed in being fair. He always liked to give a man a chance to reform voluntarily, to bow to his righteous persuasion. As for Allison, Truggles detested a man like that. The "scientific" mind, always so sure of its own theories. Such men could not see beyond the material, into the living realm of possession and power, the struggle between good and evil. This theory that Forsythe was a superior creature... Truggles shivered with resentment. Man was the apex, the conqueror -- the conqueror through his service to the good way, the right way, through his militant demand that things be good and right. A superior being. Truggles trembled again, this time overwhelmed by a feeling he hated, the feeling of inferiority. It swept over him from long, long ago, that bitter night when he had stood in tears before the Brazilian, when he had implored on his knees the only woman he had ever loved. Something small and dark scurried across the walk in front of him. Mice, he thought. The idea that man descended from a mouse was even more repellant than that man descended from monkey. But, if evolution had any basis in fact, mice might have certain claims. They lived in human habitations, they ate human foods. Their psychology was studied in mazes, and their physical makeup made them good subjects for experimentation in human diseases. Mice. Truggles shrugged and walked on. M asefield truggles had seen Blan Forsythe at a distance, walking along the streets of Marston Hill, but Forsythe's appearance at close range was a severe shock. The tetraploid man's skin was, as Sands and Allison had described it, the deep red color and texture of liver. His hair was short, molegray fur over the top of his head, and his eyes were a jade green that glowed with inner fires. Truggles was a tall man, but Forsythe stood a head taller and was massively built. Forsythe's rugged features were not repulsive, when one became accustomed to their hue. Still, Truggles could not understand how a woman could be attracted to him. But the adoration that shone from the eyes of the pretty secretary who escorted him into Forsythe's office was unmistakable. It was a spacious office, on the second floor of the mansion Truggles had passed so often. Why a man needed a business office to conduct private biological research was something Truggles could not understand, but this one would have fitted very well in a metropolitan skyscraper. The weight of the pistol in its shoulder holster was comforting to Truggles. Others might not believe Forsythe dangerous. He did. He was protected. "I understand you are determined to run me out of town, Mr. Truggles," said Forsythe pleasantly, leaning back in his swivel chair and putting his fingertips together. With his back to the window, his face was in slight shadow and he looked like a well-tanned business executive. "You either have a well-organized spy network or some of the strange powers your associates attribute to you, Mr. Forsythe," replied Truggles easily. It would have been easier to deal with a man who did not exhibit such self-confidence, who was a little worried and nervous, but everyone seemed to be conspiring to make this project difficult for Truggles. Forsythe smiled, and his teeth were white as shining ivory in his dark face. "My extraordinary powers don't lie along those lines, " he said. "I'd be obliged to someone who could tell me along what lines they do lie. I've had flashes of them from time to time, but I'm afraid they couldn't be explained to you." "I don't want to see you run out of town, Mr. Forsythe," said Truggles. "I came here in the hope of offering you friendship and help. The people of Marston Hill are disturbed -- I might say, aroused -- at your insistence on polygamous practices. I hope to persuade you to abandon such unsocial behavior, so I may have some background for reasoning with them in your behalf." Truggles expected the usual retort -- that the people of . the town had minded their own business (i.e., been blind to what was going on) until Truggles came to town. Instead, Forsythe said: "I have conformed to human social standards. My formal religious affiliation is Mohammedan." Truggles quivered with shock. "Mohammedan!" he exclaimed, possibly more outraged by that than by his original suspicion of polygamy. "The Koran allows us four wives, Mr. Truggles. The rest must be concubines." "You admit it! You admit that your so-called research is only a blind for a den of iniquity!" . Forsythe rose, and stepped from behind his desk. Suddenly alarmed, Truggles cringed. Forsythe was a very big man. Truggles' fingers strayed toward the shoulder holster. But Forsythe smiled "The research is genuine," he said. "Come with me, Mr. Truggles. I'd like for you to meet several of my wives. You may ask them questions if you wish." He took the nervous Truggles firmly by the arm, lifted him almost bodily from his chair and escorted him into the anteroom. The pretty secretary looked up from her desk. "Mr. Truggles, this is Trella, my youngest wife," said Forsythe. "Fortunately, she has had secretarial training, so she fits well in this office." The young woman smiled at Truggles, without embarrassment. He was not so fortunate. He dropped his eyes, the deep blue eyes that had so often been the nemesis of evil-doers. "You said I might question the -- the young lady?" he murmured. Forsythe laughed. "I'll leave so you may feel more free," he said, and went back into his office. Truggles looked upon Trella Forsythe with more self-assurance. She was a pert, brown-eyed blonde, in her early twenties. Remembering Phyllis Allison, Truggles could not but admire Forsythe's appreciation of beauty. "How long have you been married to Mr. Forsythe, Mrs. -- uh, Miss Trella?" he asked. "Only about six months," she answered. "I hope I'll prove satisfactory." "Satisfactory?" "I don't want to have to leave Blan after two years," she said. "I love him." "My dear child, how can you love a man who has a dozen other wives? How can you lower yourself to be part of such a scheme ?" "Why is it that some men never understand women?" she countered, a little angrily. "A woman may be jealous of her man's other loves, but if he's a real man the thing that matters is that he loves her . I get along fine with Blan's other wives. We have something in common -- we all love him." Truggles resisted a strong temptation to attempt to convert her to sanity on the spot. His powers of convincing women were potent ones, as experience had proved. But, in this case, the root of the evil was Forsythe himself and there was no point in wasting any time on the wives. Truggles had expected Forsythe to conduct him on a tour of what he already had labeled, in his mind, "the harem." But Forsythe remained closeted in his office, and it was Trella who escorted Truggles through a portion of the building. They met three other women, busy at various tasks, all of them young and attractive. Truggles questioned them briefly. He found substantially the same reaction he had received from Trella. When they had mounted the wide stairs again, on their way back to the office, Truggles was introduced to another wife, Lois. The door of a room stood ajar as they came to it, and he happened to see her sitting inside, weeping. He thought Trella appeared reluctant when he stopped and pushed open the door, but she did not protest. "Why are you weeping, my child?" asked Truggles, after he had talked with her for a moment "I must leave," she explained, "I've been married to Blan twc years tomorrow, and I haven't given him a child." "That's the most inhuman thing I ever heard of!" he exclaimed. "Do you mean to say he gives you this little time of happiness, and then if you don't produce progeny for him he casts you off like an old shoe?" "It's Dr. Allison's advice to him," said Lois. "Dr. Allison thinks it would be bad for him to have too many wives around at one time, and he considers two years long enough to prove certainly whether a woman can be fertile with Blan. I'm not the first. I won't be the last. But it's hard to have to go away and never see him again." These women he had seen today, these wives of Forsythe: they aroused no bitter feelings in Truggles. He felt clean and strong talking to them. They were like the many women to whom he had held out sympathy and understanding over the years, who had been stubborn and wilful at first, only to melt at last and see the truth. If only he could get them from Forsythe's influence, he thought he could save these women. Truggles turned to Trella. "Do you see what's in store for you, young woman?" he demanded. "Do you still think it's worth ruining your life to live here in sin with . this man?" "I may be different," she answered calmly. "And if Tm not, tell me, Mr. Truggles: does a mouse have the right to question the motives of a man?" Truggles went back into Forsythe's office. The tetraploid man had swung his chair away from his desk and was staring moodily out the big window. He inclined his head at Truggles' entrance, but did not speak. "Forsythe, this has been the most amazing, the most revolting, revelation I have ever experienced," opened Truggles. His indignation fueled his courage now, and his voice held the commanding resonance of a pipe organ. "You claim to be superhuman. I say you are inhuman, to force these poor young women to live in servitude, sharing you with each other, and then to discard them with brutal unconcern when you find they cannot fulfill your insane dream of foisting others of your kind on the earth!" "They love me and I have a great affection for all of them," said Forsythe, not turning. "I provide for them when they leave me. Because the great experience of love cannot last a lifetime, should it be denied altogether?" The ancient bitterness swept over Truggles in a consuming wave. Yes, yes, cried his soul, far better never to have loved, never to have known the meaning of love, than to have it snatched from the grasp in full flower! Forsythe was a monster. How could he know? Did the superman have telepathic powers? Or was it again chance, this dropping of a remark that burned deep into his writhing memories? Forsythe's face was turned from him. One shot and this incredible thing, this liver-hued monstrosity that sat before him would be removed from the face of the earth. Truggles put his hand inside his coat. The butt of the pistol was cool under his fingers. No. A murderer in prison has no influence. He cannot battle evil, recruiting to his shining leadership an army of righteous people. Truggles dropped his hand to his lap and said calmly: "You speak as though they could love no one else. Is polygamy, then, to be a characteristic of the longheralded superman?" "Polygamy and monogamy, as such, have no moral values, for man or superman," replied Forsythe, speaking to the window. "Polygamy was a part of man's social scheme for centuries. Monogamy has been replacing it as a more desirable scheme; but to attribute moral values to it is propaganda. I challenge you to find an edict against polygamy in the basic writings of any religion -- Christianity, Judaism, any of them. Remember Solomon? Monogamy has the advantage of closer companionship between man and woman, and for that reason I would prefer it." A great thrill shot through Truggles' breast at these words. Was it possible that Forsythe had weakened? Was it possible that he could lead this strange man back to the path of truth? "Why not give it up, Forsythe?" he asked in a low, compelling voice. "Why not eschew your dream of a new race and leave such things to higher powers? Send these poor women back to their homes and turn back to your one true, legal wife, Phyllis, and your son." Forsythe swung to face him. The green eyes were deep and haunted. "Don't you think that's what I would prefer, above all else?" he asked in a low voice. "Perhaps you didn't know it, but I married Phyllis before I knew I was -- different; other than my appearance, I mean. The genuine love of a man for a woman does not die. Do you think even a superman -- it's your term, Truggles, not mine -- enjoys loneliness? The worship of other women, my affection for them as human beings, can't fill the gap left by the loss of someone who shared complete understanding with me." He laughed shortly. "Besides," he added, "you're trying to talk me into committing an immoral act, Truggles. You forget that Phyllis is Dr. Allison's wife now, and Donald is Dr. Allison's son. Truggles brushed that aside. "That's no excuse for what you're doing," he said. "One of the major duties of any individual, of whatever species, is to reproduce his kind, if he can," answered Forsythe soberly. "In the human community, safe as a race through its very numbers, that has been lost sight of and overlaid with social responsibilities. I'm different. I can't ignore it. "How was the misconception ever begotten that a superman -- again, it's your term, not mine -- would merely mate with the daughters of men and, lo! a new race? The superman is a new sDecies. Species do not interbreed fertilely very often, even when closely related. "Dr. Allison found I was tetraploid, while Phyllis and I were still married. He and I have been searching for a tetraploid woman, without success. Meanwhile, I try and still hope for fertile matings with a normal diploid woman, for the tetraploid has been fertile with the diploid sometimes in plants. "No, Donald can't be my son, whatever Phyllis says. There's more involved than the time of his birth -- two years after our divorce. Dr. Allison has tested him, and Donald has the normal # chromosomes." "Can't you accept the verdict of nature, Forsythe?" demanded Truggles. "If you were born a eunuch, you could never reproduce." "While there's hope, I have the responsibility," said Forsythe slowly. "If the stream of life is to progress, something greater than man must arise from him. I know, Truggles -- I know -- I am that superior thing. And I think back in history to the geniuses, the superior men, who died without progeny and I wonder how many of them were tetraploid, as I am, but could not pass on their new abilities to the world." Truggles shook his head angrily and arose. "You can't succeed by flouting the social conventions man has built up," he said stiffly. "I'm afraid you'll find that out to your sorrow, Forsythe." His mind caressed the gun inside his coat pocket. Such a direct solution appealed to him. But he resisted it. There was a better, safer way. He turned his back on Forsythe and left. As he walked past the Allison home, and covered half a block toward town, seething inwardly at Forsythe's stubbornness; a woman arose from a sidewalk bench to accost him. It was Lois, Forsythe's dark-haired wife to whom he had talked while she wept half an hour earlier. "Why, Mrs. For -- Miss Lois!" he exclaimed. "What are you doing here? Did you escape?" "Escape?" she repeated. Her eyes were shadowed from weeping. "Blan doesn't keep us prisoners. We come and go as we please. It's just that most of us prefer not to go out into town." "I can understand that," he said drily. "Can I help you, Miss Lois?" "Perhaps I can help myself, by helping you. Mr. Truggles, aren't you trying to stop Blan from keeping more than one wife?" "I am, indeed. I expect to seek an indictment against him on bigamy charges." "You won't succeed. He'll just sue you for false arrest, and ruin you. You don't think Blan would overlook something like that, do you? None of the girls would admit they lived with him as his wives. I wouldn't either, if it would hurt Blan." Truggles was taken aback. After a moment, he asked: "What did you have in mind?" "Nothing. But I thought if I could help you persuade him -- as the wife who's been with him longest, I'd be the one to stay, wouldn't I?" Thinking of an unknown number of others who might have been sent away previously, Truggles was inclined to doubt it. But he would not let such an opinion interfere with this opportunity. "Probably," he said. "Will you help me if I promise to take no legal action against Forsythe?" "What do you want me to do?" she asked. "You say you're free to come and go as you please?" "Yes." "I just want you to tell the truth about what he's doing, as I've learned it, at a few meetings of good, sympathetic citizens during the next few weeks." "I'll do it if you're sure it won't hurt Blan in any way," she said. "I'm positive it won't," Truggles lied. tective League was a small organization, composed largely of elderly women and a few men. Masefield Truggles had never meant for it to serve as anything more than a nucleus. Before he lit the flame, he spent a week building up his tinder pile. He announced, by word of mouth and through the columns of The Clarion , Marston Hill's small daily newspaper, that the Social Standards Protective League would hold a series of special meetings every afternoon for a week. The public would be welcome, he said, and there would be startling revelations of vice conditions in Marston Hill. Truggles rented the city's ancient, rickety auditorium for the meetings, and invited Mayor Ben Sands to speak at the first one. Lois Forsythe sat on the platform that first afternoon, but Truggles did not call on her. Sands made a routine talk, the kind any mayor of a small town might, on the conscientiousness of Marston Hill's three-man police force, the lack of crime in the town, the recreational facilities and educational methods being utilized to see that the young people did not stray on the wrong path. He received polite applause. When he had finished, Truggles arose and said: "Sometimes after talks of this kind, we throw our meetings open to questions from the audience. Instead, I would like to ask Mayor Sands one question. Does he recall that I complained to him not long ago about the activities of Blan Forsythe, and what the tenor of the conversation was?" "Why, yes," answered Sands, surprised. "You accused Blan of practicing polygamy. I told you that you'd been listening to too much gossip, and that Blan was doing biological research. I don't believe these good people would be interested in the nature of the research." "I do," answered Truggles, "and it will be the subject of tomorrow's meeting. I have investigated these experiments, and they are well worth hearing about. Thank you, Mr. Mayor." Truggles was a past master at building tension. The next day, he apologized for changing the program and gave a lecture on polygamy in human society. Backgrounded with considerable research at the Marston Hill public library, he described polygamy in Biblical times, in savage communities, in China and the Mohammedan world and among the early Mormons in the United States. He told of the social objections to polygamy and the progress made in eliminating it as a way of life. The following day, he described Forsythe's research with tetraploid plants -- not too accurately, but that didn't matter with this audience -- and skillfully translated chromosome doubling into human terms until his final revelation that Forsythe was a tetraploid man left them gasping. And, the fourth day, he told, with some embroidery, of Forsythe's polygamy. During each of these talks, Lois sat on the stage. Polygamy was a known, routine affair to her. Truggles was able to word his talks so that, to Lois, his revelations appeared calm and unbiased; but at the same time they were insinuating and inflammatory to his audiences, to whom polygamy was something strange and monstrous. During none of the first four talks did he call on Lois. But at the end of the fourth, he announced : "I have described to you what Forsythe told me himself. Perhaps you have been wondering who this attractive young lady is. She is none other than one of Forsythe's multiple wives, and tomorrow evening you shall hear a description of a polygamous household from her own lips." The first meeting had contained only the members of the small group which Truggles himself had organized, and two or three visitors attracted by the mayor's presence. But such words as "polygamy," "harem," "strange research," "monstrous plants and people" got around, as Truggles intended they should. The audience grew by leaps and bounds. By the night of the final meeting, the old auditorium was filled to overflowing; they were standing in the aisles. Calmly, and yet not without some hint of the tragedy she herself felt, Lois described the day-to-day life of Forsythe's household; the friendship among the wives, their jealousies, their hopes and regrets. She did not realize that her words, like those of Truggles the day before, were building anger in the breasts of her hearers at something they had not experienced and could not understand. When she had finished, Truggles took the stage, and now the calmness, the factualness, was gone from him. "You have heard what this poor woman told you!" he cried. "You have heard how this man, this Forsythe, took advantage of her. Remember, her sisters are as unfortunate as she. Shall this lecher, this monster, go unpunished?" Before he could say more, Lois was on her feet. "Mr. Truggles, wait!" she exclaimed. "You told me you were going to try to get Blan to give up polygamy. I wouldn't have come here and helped you if I'd known you were going to try to arouse his friends against him!" "My poor child, it's too late," answered Truggles loudly. "I tried to persuade the man to give up his life of sin, and his heart was as stone. He must feel the lash of just retribution!" She stared at him, her eyes widening in slow realization. Then she burst into tears and ran from the stage. She fled down the aisle and out of the auditorium. "Do you see?" cried Truggles to his audience. His blue eyes flashed and his voice rang like a trumpet. "Even now she cannot break his devilish hold on her! Think! Are your daughters safe from him? Are your wives, even? Do you know that the wife of his best friend, Dr. Allison, admits that her child is the child of this man, this monster?" For five minutes, he shouted, he wept, he shook his fists, he raised his hands to heaven. Then, striding to the edge of the platform, he demanded in a low, compelling tone: "Who will take up the sword of righteousness and go with me to drive this creature from our midst?" For a moment, there was dead silence. Then a young man stood up in the middle of the auditorium. "By God, I will!" he shouted... "I reckon I will, too," called an older man near the rear. One by one, then all at once, they were on around. Truggles leaped from the stage and forced his way through the crowd to the door. They surged out of the auditorium at his heels and poured down the middle of the street toward the home of Blan Forsythe, yelling. With Truggles in the lead, the excited citizens swept onto the broad lawn in front of the big mansion, spread out over the grass, trampling the flower beds. There were fifty to a hundred of them. Porch lights went on all over the neighborhood. From the same direction from which the crowd had come, two figures ran across the yards in the dimness and, circling the edge of the crowd, came up to Truggles. He recognized Phyllis Allison and her son, Donald. "What is this, Mr. Truggles?" she cried, peering into his face. "What are all these people doing?" "I'm sorry you came here, Mrs. Allison," he answered, shouting to make himself heard over the uproar of the people around them. "These people are determined to right the wrong this man has done you." Outside lights from the mansion suddenly lit the entire lawn, and the mob that stirred restlessly on it. A momentary silence feH. Their numbers did not seem as great, their ranks not so solid, in the glare of the lights. "Come on, Forsythe!" shouted Truggles in a great voice. "Come out and face your judges!" The front door opened and Allison stepped out on the railinged porch. Truggles, at the front of the crowd, was about seventy feet from him. "What is this?" demanded Allison. "What are you people doing here?" "We've come for Forsythe," answered Truggles, and a murmur from the crowd backed him up. "Where is he?" "I'm surprised at you, all of you," said Allison. "You people are my friends and Blan's friends. Why, you -- " He broke off as he caught sight of Phyllis and Donald. "Phyllis!" he exclaimed. "What are you doing here? Take that boy home!" Obediently, she turned away, but Truggles caught her by the arm. "Get Forsythe out here!" he cried. "Let him face the woman he wronged!" At that moment, Forsythe himself came out of the door and stood at Allison's side. A wordless cry ran through the mob at the sight of the tetraploid man's face, topped withits cap of mole-gray fuzz. "I see you're still taking an active interest in my affairs, Truggles," said Forsythe. He did not raise his voice, but it carried across the lawn. "Evil is every man's business," answered Truggles boldly. "These good people are enraged that you should flout the laws of society so brazenly." "Naturally," replied Forsythe, smiling. "And you enraged them. As long as everyone here minded his own business, no harm was done." "I expected you to take that attitude, Forsythe," shouted Truggles. "Have you no sense of responsibility, no respect for the customs that others have established for their protection?" "Certainly," said Forsythe, but he added, logically: "Would you be bound by the customs of a colony of mice, if they interfered with your pursuit of greater ends?" "Listen at him!" cried Truggles, turning to the crowd and spreading his hands. "'You see what high regard he has for you, who have befriended him? He scorns you! He calls you mice!" He turned back to the mansion with clenched fists and took a step forward. "You monster!" he shouted. "Even mice can be dangerous!" The crowd behind him surged forward with a roar. Forsythe's voice rang out above it. "Wait!" he cried. "I appeal to your reason! I have no higher power. I can't strike you dead, or vanish from your sight. All I can do is ask you one question. Will you destroy me because I violate your customs, when I represent the hope of your race to become something greater?" His words fell on deaf ears. The crowd inched forward, ugly, dangerous. A figure brushed past Truggles. It was Phyllis Allison, and she tugged the boy Donald with her. "Stop her!" cried Truggles. "Don't let her get in his clutches!" Alone, for these words seemed only to confuse those near him, Truggles ran after Phyllis and the boy. But they stopped, halfway to the porch, and Truggles reached them. He placed his hand on Phyllis' arm and pulled at her compellingly. He was close enough to her to hear her words to the boy. "Donnie!" she urged anxiously. "You remember the game we played? Use the Power!" The boy looked apprehensively toward the porch. "Daddy said don't," he demurred. Dr. Alex Allison stood, his hands gripping the rail of the porch, looking out over the ugly crowd. There was no mistaking the moment. At any instant, the mob would surge over the porch. "Blan, I can't let them kill you because I've wronged you," said Allison in a clear, agonized voice. "Donald is your son!" There was a cry from Phyllis and she clutched the boy convulsively, twisting free of Truggles' grip. The people on the lawn fell silent, their upturned faces white in the light, waiting, sensing the import of the revelation. "I told you there was the possibility that the tetraploid could reproduce with the diploid," said Allison. "It's true Donald's cells don't contain # chromosomes -- but neither do they contain just #. They contain # chromosomes -- an even number, a viable number! Not always, but sometimes the hybrid is superior to both diploid and tetraploid. Blan, with all your unexplored qualities, you're just the vehicle of the new race. Donald is the superman!" "But it's impossible!" exclaimed Forsythe. "I haven't even seen Phyllis since we were divorced." "Did you think the tetraploid, the new species, would have the same gestation period as man?" asked Allison. "The gestation period is thirty months. Phyllis was pregnant when you were divorced, Blan, but I loved her and I didn't let either of you know. I wanted her for myself." "So that's why you recommended polygamy so enthusiastically," remarked Forsythe. "That's why I recommended a two-year limit on keeping any of your wives, and why I made sure they were sent far away," admitted Allison. "I couldn't let you know. You have half a dozen sons and daughters now, Blan, and Lois is going to be a mother." There was happiness in Forsythe's dark face as he looked out over the crowd. To see happiness on his face cut Truggles' soul like a knife. And all this small talk was losing his crowd. The seething emotions he had nurtured so carefully were simmering down in harmless curiosity aroused by the small private drama that had unfolded before the people on the lawn. "It's a conspiracy to mislead you!" he howled. "If no one else will throw the first stone, I will!" It was a symbolic gesture, his scooping up a harmless clod and hurling it to explode against the porch as he marched on the man he hated. His back to the crowd, Truggles feared with a terrible fear that it was already too late. He was chancing making himself ridiculous. But his heart leaped as the voices of a few hotheads arose in his support behind him, and he felt, rather than heard, some of the people surge forward. How many? He didn't know, but a few would be enough to start the rest again. Allison was leaning over the porch rail, his face white, looking not at Truggles but past him. "Donald!" he cried in a low voice that carried intensely across the grass. "Do as your mother says! I won't punish you. Use the Power!" And Truggles faltered and stopped in his tracks. He looked around him, confused, as some unseen force seemed to take his will and disperse it. The harsh glare of the lights faded in the glow of a greater, softer, more glorious illumination. A soundless music filled the air, so deep and majestic that it was felt, rather than heard. Almost, Truggles expected the sky to open and a heavenly choir to appear. Around him, he saw the familiar things of Marston Hill with new eyes. Life coursed through the green grass, bade a winter's farewell from the turning leaves of the trees. He felt for the first time that he was not a creature alone, but a part of all life around him. The faces of the people around him showed that they, too, felt what he felt. They saw beauty in the air, in the world. As he looked on them, Truggles realized, for the first time in the heart of him, that their small faults were not vices, not innate evil -- not even the hatred and fear that had been in their hearts when they stormed here with him was evil. There were only the well-meaning flaws that sprang from earnest eagerness. Even the face of Forsythe, when Truggles looked at it, mirrored the ecstatic understanding of something that he had experienced only partially before. And Truggles knew that the type of understanding that had opened up to Forsythe was something he himself never could comprehend. And in the midst of this experience that transcended understanding, the boy Donald took his mother's hand and the two of them floated up, into the air, above Truggles' head, and forward to alight gently at Forsythe's side on the porch. But, amazing as that was, Truggles recognized it was only a small outward manifestation of the Power. The Power of the superman was what he and all these others felt, a weapon greater than fire or sword, greater than will or reason. Under its influence, no man could raise his hand against his brother, for he understood . The vision, if vision it was, faded, and only a crowd of murmuring people stood around sheepishly in the cold glare of the lights on Forsythe's lawn. "Truggles, you've won your point," said Forsythe, and there was no animosity in his voice. "I don't need to experiment any more. I'm leaving Marston Hill with my wife and son..." He caught himself and looked at Allison. "I can't hold her," said Allison in a low tone. "I won't try to. I'll give her a divorce." "... With my only wife and son," resumed Forsythe happily. "I'm going to find my other children. And I don't think any of you will ever hear of us again." He turned and entered the house with Phyllis and Donald. Allison followed them, his head bowed. Truggles sat in his small, sparsely-furnished room and fought his soul. For a long time, the memory of what the boy Donald had somehow shown the people of Marston Hill lingered with him: the conception of a world that was all good, all beauty, everything right. Truggles tried to cling to it, but gradually it slipped from him. There was something in him that prevented him holding it. At last, he still could remember it, but the memory was a logical thing, a thing that was incredible to him because it had no roots in emotion. As that happened, the old torment returned ten-fold, as though it had battered outside of the vision's barrier fruitlessly until it could burst on him with renewed vigor. Writhing inwardly, twisting his hands, Truggles stared unseeing at the room about him while he relived the agony of the past. He held Margaret -- how long, how many years had it been, since he had let himself even think that name? -- he held her in his arms and felt her cool lips against his. He talked with her, he felt the closeness of something infinitely good and right for him. He lived again the angry, shouting interview when she stood with the arm of the Brazilian, De Castro, around her shoulders and said : "I'm sorry, Masefield. I like you and for a while I thought it was something more. But I've found love with a man who's so far superior to either of us that I still can't believe he's mine." "That foreigner?" he shouted again, and tears sprang tq his eyes as they had then. "You turn me down for him? You think I'm inferior to him?" And again he lived through the shame of falling on his knees before her, turning up his weeping face to her, imploring her to no avail. He saw on her face and the Brazilian's face the pity, the scorn, before they walked out together, leaving him to sob alone. Truggles beat his hands helplessly on the arm of the chair. Of all the hapless people he had tracked down and tossed to the ravening, outraged contempt of the public, he had wanted most of all to conquer Forsythe. He had wanted to see Forsythe cower and whimper, beg before they hung him. And Forsythe had won. What mattered it that he was leaving Marston Hill? Truggles had thought that would be a victory, to make Forsythe run away. But Forsythe was not going alone and hunted. He was taking with him the woman he loved, who reminded Truggles of the clean beauty of Margaret; the one woman who understood him as none of those others could. And the boy. Was it a defeat to a man to know that his son was greater than he? Truggles knew it was not. A vision rose before him of a race of men and women who walked among the clouds, who saw only beauty in the world and looked down with sympathetic pity upon the poor creeping humans below. The new race, greater than Truggles could even imagine himself. Truggles stirred, and awoke to his surroundings, bitterly. He would have to leave Marston Hill himself. The people would not thank him for arousing them against Forsythe. From them, he could expect only anger, contempt, perhaps even... There was a sudden rattling behind him. Truggles jumped to his feet, alarmed, fearful, his heart beating fast. His apprehensive eyes searched the room. A paper moved in a corner. It was only a mouse.    copies of the first issue of IF, Volume #, No. #, dated March #. If your collection is missing this collector's item, you can get it for the published price. Send only #tf and your copy will be mailed at once. Other back issues available are: May and July #; March, April, July, October and November #; January, March and April #; February, April, June, August and October #. Address Circulation Dept., IF Magazine, Kingston, New York. Earthmen were considered stupid. But they knew something that the alien didn't -- and about his own planet! a little knowledge iences, Caesar could never have staged such a triumph, and in the face of world history-making, he wouldn't have reason to. Olbu's visit to the earth was certainly a bigger deal for the archives than anything Caesar ever did. "No one can say you aren't a good sport," commended Ralph Rodkey of the Interstate Broadcasting Network. "You had plenty of reason to be annoyed, especially when the mob tried to tear your clothes off. But, the people meant no harm; they just adore you." Olbu had learned English overnight and mastered it. He hardly had an accent: "I was a little disturbed, you might say." "Well, our people are hero worshippers," Rodkey explained. "And you're certainly a hero, being the first man from off the Earth to land on the Earth, you might say. And then too, given an opportunity to celebrate, an Earthman will take full advantage of the slightest excuse." "Rather barbaric," said Olbu. "You say you don't travel in space as yet?" "No, and you're the first visitor from space we've had. You see no planets of this solar system are inhabited by intelligent forms of Illustrated by Ed Emsh "But then this is a barbaric planet." "Uh? Oh, yes. Just joking, of course. Now we're about ready for our telecast with Cecil Burroughs, the greatest commentator in the business. You'll appear with one of our leading scientists." "I hope he can understand the things I shall talk about." "We may not know much about space flight, but we know a lot of things; my boy," said Rodkey. life." "You can say that again," said Olbu. "With the exception of the Earth, of course." Rodkey laughed. "We were very thrilled to have someone drop in on us." "How strange!" "In fact, many of our people figured that Man was unique. They thought he couldn't exist anywhere but here." "It would be nice if such were the case," said Olbu. "But I'm afraid the galaxy is not so fortunate. Many planets have men. Some are more like men than others, if you understand what I mean. But they all have his chief faults and good points." Rodkey had arranged for the interview in the Presidential suite of the Claremont Hotel and in the next room electricians were busy setting up the equipment. Presently the door opened and a man of about #, clean shaven and slightly bald, paused in the doorway. He looked at the confusion for a moment, hesitated as if he were checking an impulse to flee, then spotted Rodkey through the bedroom door. "Dr. Bruber!" exclaimed Rodkey. Dr. Alymir Bruber beamed, extended his hand and strode forward. He tripped over a cable, but caught himself on the doorframe with nothing worse than a bumped shoulder. Rodkey pumped his hand enthusiastically. "It's been a long time, Doctor!" he said, slapping him on the shoulder. "Remember, we met when I interviewed you on the nervous electron factor of your diatomic equivalent energy principle back in '#." "Oh," said Bruber. "Yes, I remember you well." He turned his head toward Olbu. One glance would have convinced anyone that Olbu was from space -- or at least another planet. He had an unusually large head, small neck, skinny arms and legs and a pot belly. Everyone knows that people from other planets have all of these things. The only thing wrong with Olbu was that his eyes were just like anyone's eyes, a little slanted, perhaps, but not more so than the average oriental, and of course Olbu had no feelers extending from his forehead. But those things weren't absolutely necessary in a man who looked the part, as Olbu did. "This must be our visitor!" Once more Dr. Bruber extended his hand and this time he tripped over the rug, but Rodkey was handy to catch him. "My glasses," explained Dr. Bruber. "They're only bifocals, and I have trouble adjusting to middle distances." "Olbu," said Rodkey, "allow me to present Dr. Bruber, the world's greatest living scientist." Dr. Bruber laughed nervously and shook hands with Olbu. "I'm afraid Mr. Rodkey is being extravagant. Actually I'm not the greatest. Only the greatest in my field. I'm second greatest in three others though." "Dr. Bruber is too modest," said Rodkey. "There's practically nothing that he doesn't know." "No one knows nothing," said Olbu. Dr. Bruber blinked as he tried to figure that one out. It doubtless hinged on a lingual difference to start with and so he gave up. "Well, gentlemen," said Rodkey, "our broadcast will start in thirty minutes. Perhaps we can go over briefly what topics we should talk upon. You know we don't want to get into anything too deep for our viewers to understand, yet we don't want to be too trivial, you know. Give them something interesting, I always say. Then if we have any time left, we might touch on some topics that go a little beyond that." "Did you have a nice trip?" asked Dr. Bruber. "It was beastly," said Olbu. "Thirty-two light years of space and not even an interesting meteor." "We're on the verge of making an interplanetary flight here on Earth," Dr. Bruber said. "The trouble is, no one that wants a flight has any money and those that have the money don't care about space flight." "You're probably better off all around," said Olbu. "Come now, gentlemen," said Rodkey. "We can do better than that. You can cut loose with a few scientific terms now and then. It gives the interview an authentic flavor. Ask Olbu his opinion of the quantum jump, Dr. Bruber." Dr. Bruber turned toward the director and blinked through his heavy glasses. "I'd rather ask our distinguished visitor why he came." "Yes, Dr. Bruber. Please do," said Olbu. "All right. Why did you come here?" "We wanted to decide whether to wipe out the solar system or not." For a moment it was silent in the room, except for the sound of the electricians outside the door. "Goddamit," said an electrician. "You can't use that hookup on the Y-circuit. You'll cut out the monitors." Ralph Rodkey tiptoed to the bedroom door and closed it. "Surely you're joking," said Dr. Bruber. "Quite a sense of humor. Ha-Ha." "No, I'm not. We discovered there was at least one habitable planet here -- and where there are habitable planets, there are likely to be human beings. Human beings are dangerous." Rodkey cleared his throat. "Gentlemen. Far be it from me to interfere in a scientific discussion like this, but if I were you I'd try another tack. A large number of our viewers might not understand it." "You think it would be better, perhaps, if we killed them all without warning?" Olbu said, turning toward the director. "Really, Mr. Olbu," said Rodkey. "You don't intend to blot us out, do you?" "That decision is hardly mine to make," said Olbu. "I'll have to report to my superiors. If you're dangerous, you'll have to be erased, and there's nothing that can be done about it." "Excuse me a moment." Rodkey rose, went to the phone and ordered liquor sent up to the room. He hung up the receiver. "I think it's best that we make your stay here a pleasant one, Olbu." "If you intend to bribe me, I'm afraid you'll have no success," said Olbu. "I was chosen because I am impeccable." "I'm quite sure of it," said Dr. Bruber. "And perhaps there is something in your premise that not all human beings are desirable. I should like to know how Earth is making out." Olbu shrugged his shoulders. "So far I've seen nothing worth saving," he said. "You're a vain lot. You're trivial. You have no respect for the dignity of Man. And your worst fault is ambition. I suppose you have wars?" "Not for a long time. Two or three years anyhow," said Rodkey. "How long is a year? Ah yes, I forgot. It is the period of the planet on its journey around the sun. And how long does that take? One year. The usual nonsensical way you have of defining things. You don't even know how to measure time." "How very interesting!" exclaimed Dr. Bruber. "Actually it never occurred to me that there might be an absolute method of measuring time. What is it?" "It's the Mpto. Fortythree and a third Mptos make an Anup, and Zorex. It's a lot simpler than seconds, minutes, hours, days, weeks and so on." "Yes, I see," said Dr. Bruber. "But getting back to our topic. Just what should we have that would make us worth saving?" "Stability," said Olbu. "Earthmen lack stability." "Don't you think you should talk more about your trip?" Rodkey asked. "How did Saturn look when you passed it?" "Saturn wasn't in the right place to be seen at all," Dr. Bruber said. "But you did see Pluto. How did it look?" "There was nothing about it and it looked awful," said Olbu. "I hate to be injecting my own personal ideas into this conversation," said Rodkey, "because after all, I know nothing about science. But don't you suppose it would please our viewers if we talked more about space flight than about the destruction of the human race?" "You see," said Olbu to Dr. Bruber. "That's what I mean. No stability." "After all, the poor man doesn't want to lose his job," Bruber explained. "I'd say that was a desire to be stable." "If he's going to be dead, which he will be when I get word from my superiors, he'll lose his job whether he wants to or not," said Olbu. "I'll go along with a joke as well as anyone," said Rodkey, "but gentlemen, we've only got twelve minutes till we go on the air. Now let's cut out this nonsense about destroying Earth and talk about something pleasant." "Certainly," said Dr. Bruber. "What planet did you come from?" "Xvik," said Olbu. "It's the fourth planet of a star you call GC#." "Good old GC#!" said Dr. Bruber. "Oh, you know that star?" "Yes, it's a minor variable loosely attached to Lyra." "There's no tiling loose about my star' said Olbu. Tm sure Dr. Bruber didn't mean it that way," said Rodkey hastily. He looked nervously at Dr. Bruber. "Did you, doctor?" "That's one of the things I don't know," he said, wiping his glasses on his handkerchief. "Tell me, Olbu, if you should decide we aren't worth saving, how would you communicate with your superiors, considering they're # light years away. Wouldn't it take # years -- thirty-two going and thirtytwo coming -- to get a message through?" "Oh, no! I communicate by instantaneous telepathy," said Olbu. "It's much faster than energy forms of communication." . "I wish you'd talk about something else," said Rodkey. "Only ten minutes to go." Dr. Bruber disregarded the request. "I don't know why people on a planet # light years away should consider Earth dangerous." "Oh Earth isn't. It's only the people on it," said Olbu. "How do you know about the people?" "We have a method of enlarging telescopic photos to bring out every detail. We know all about Man, we've watched you from the days when your ancestors lived in caves." "Goodness! You know more about us than we know ourselves." "Why don't you tell our viewers about that !" exclaimed Rodkey. "Yes," went on Olbu, who also seemed to have forgotten the existence of Rodkey, "we saw your ancestors fight with sticks and stones. We saw them use spears, then gunpowder. Then we saw the atom bomb and the Council decided to send me to see if anything could be salvaged." "But the bomb was # years ago," said Dr. Bruber. "Twelve Zorax," corrected Olbu. "I've been on the way here for twelve Zorax -- or if you will -- thirty-two light years, two hundred time years." "Surely the atom bomb can't affect your existence when we don't even have space flight," said Dr. Bruber. "My race has developed a type of logic that can look into the future," said Olbu. "We know that certain patterns develop from past events. In your case, you'll follow the Atom bomb with the Hydrogen bomb, and the Hydrogen bomb with the Cobalt bomb -- " "We have them both." "Ah! You see. Our logical foresight is infallible," said Olbu. "Next you'll wipe out nations, when only one is left, you'll fight neighboring planets. Since you haven't any inhabited near neighbors, you'll have to invade Alpha Centauri. After that you'll battle with other stars, until you've conquered the cluster, then the galaxy, finally the universe. It's a very unstable state of affairs." Slowly Dr. Bruber nodded. "You're right. I never realized where science was taking us. You have something ready to wipe us out with?" "Yes," said Olbu. "Just beyond the moon, circling the Earth and the moon as a satellite, is a missile which I can bring here by instantaneous telepathy, as soon as I have my orders from my superior." "I trust you'll postpone the fateful message until after our telecast?" Olbu smiled graciously. "A dying man is usually granted his last request." "Gentlemen," said Rodkey, wiping his brow with a damp handkerchief, "they're waiting for us in the next room. We're on in a minute." He opened the door, allowed Olbu to pass through first, and then whispered to Dr. Bruber. "I guess my job doesn't matter now. At least we'll scoop the other networks on the end of the world." "Tish, tosh, old man," said Dr. Bruber. "Your job's safe and so is the world. But if I should resort to murder in the next fifteen minutes, I hope you'll testify in my behalf." the door, tripped over a cable and sprawled in front of the television cameras. Rodkey helped him to his feet and steered him to a seat to the left of the distinguished news commentator, Cecil Burroughs. On the right of the commentator sat Olbu, bobbing his huge head and smiling. Rodkey barely got out of camera range in time to give the signal. Burroughs gave the commercial, which had nothing to do with interplanetary flight, or anything gentlemen," said Burroughs, "our two distinguished scientists have a great deal to tell us about two widely separated points in the universe." Dr. Bruber smiled into the camera. "Just before we went on the air, Mr. Burroughs," he said, "Ambassador Olbu and I had an interesting discussion about the merits of Earth. He contends that it is unstable -- " "You are twisting my words around, doctor," interpolated Olbu. "I made it clear that it was not the planet itself, but the people who are objectionable." "The people spoil the planet?" "In a sense. The people are dangerous, the planet is not." "Would it be possible for a planet to spoil the people?" Olbu seemed to digest the words in his mind before he spoke: "That is a rather weak effort to shift the blame from the shoulders of those responsible for a sad state of affairs, doctor. You are trying to say there is something in the air, or the water, that makes Earthmen what they are. "No, I was hinting that there might be something wrong with your planet, Mr. Olbu." "Nonsense! Nothing is wrong with my planet. My people would not be affected even if the air and water were bad. We, the children of Xvik, are the highest expression of the human race." "It's easy to see that," said Dr. Bruber. "You were pointing out to me that Earth's pattern of existence doesn't offer much hope for the future." "That is right," said Olbu. "Earth's future is not much to look forward to." "But the planet is worth saving?" "Definitely." "Yet the people are a part of the planet." "You should study logic, Dr. Bruber. You're trying to make me say things that are not logical." "Okay, let's forget logic and look at what Earth is likely to do if it follows its 'natural' trend. You say it will destroy itself." "If someone else doesn't do it first," said Olbu. "It will continue to have wars till it exhausts all opportunities for it on the planet. Then it will war in the skies, with other planets, with other stars, finally with other galaxies. Man has a thirst for power, and that thirst is never satisfied. On the other hand, knowledge leads to contentment. If the Earth should seek knowledge, it would forget war." "Perhaps war is necessary for survival," suggested Dr. Bruber. "War is seldom fought for survival. It is a result of a struggle for supremacy. And, might I ask, supremacy of what? After you've conquered all the galaxies, what do you have?" "Olbu seems to have a point there," said Burroughs. "It is now time for a brief message from our sponsor." The message had nothing to do with war, or knowledge. "Now, Olbu," began Burroughs, "we were talking about wars, knowledge, power and survival. Do you have anything else to add?" "Only that Earth has brought this on itself," said Olbu. "I don't quite understand -- " Cecil Burroughs wrinkled his massive brow. "What our distinguished visitor is trying to say," said Dr. Bruber, "is that a planet is only as stable as its people. And a star system is only as stable as its planets. Isn't that it Ambassador?" "You have a round-about method of stating nothing at all," said Olbu. "What I'm trying to tell you is that sometimes worlds must come to an end." "Exactly," said Dr. Bruber. "I've made a study of GC# for many years and I'm quite familiar with it. This star, as many scientists know, became a super nova about fifteen years ago." "What?" Olbu's eyes grew less slanting and more round. "It was an unstable star," said Dr. Bruber. "The Earth, with all its faults, is stable. It may be young, impulsive, inclined to play with fire -- atomic fire no less -- but it will grow up some day." "My star, my planet -- gone?" "You haven't been in contact with your home base since you arrived?" Dr. Bruber asked. "I was not supposed to contact my base," said Olbu, "until -- " He stopped abruptly, and those with him were aware of the fact that he was using his mental powers to call his superiors. -- The lengthening silence seemed to give proof to Bruber's words. "Since you have no world to go to," interrupted the Dr. gently, "I hope you'll be our guest. Perhaps (Continued on page #) Propaganda-wise, Newsear was a wonderful gadget. And a sinister one! seemed  amused at Danton's wide-eyed incredulity. "Let me get this straight," Danton said, tapping the sharp corner of the official envelope against the desk. "You mean I went through nine months of blistering basic for this?" The flush on his hard young face ended ludicrously at the hairline of his shaven head. "That's right," the Newsear director smiled. "Look. I took everything those at me. I walked through a # radioactive field. I pushed an atom tank halfway across Texas. You mean the Army is going to take all that training and -- and dump it into a desk job?" The man pointed. "You read the orders." "But it's crazy!" He looked down at the gray-green, metal-free uniform, as if to reassure himself of his status. "I'm a trained atom tanker -- an officer." He glared at the small, owlishlysmiling man, whose short legs barely touched the floor beneath the desk. "Angry, lieutenant?" The Director's name was Forbes. "Angry?" Forbes said. "Or relieved?" Mel Danton turned his head away, stung by the sharp truth. "What's the assignment?" "That will develop later. First we want to acquaint you with Newsear, so you'll better understand its strategic importance. You see, this war has many battlefields. We consider Newsear as important as any other -- and in some ways, even more trying." Danton snorted. "I know that's hard to believe. But Newsear operates directly under the office of the War Department. Don't be fooled by the civilian atmosphere. News dissemination has military importance. We're a government agency now." "Yeah? Which government?" The smooth voice crackled. "The government that put you in uniform. The Central Federal Gov"You can now. We've knocked the price down to practically nothing. But as a member of Newsear, you're entitled to a complimentary unit. Here." He opened a drawer arid removed a small clear-plastic envelope. He tore it open, removed another earfunnel, and extended it towards the man in uniform. "Put it in," Forbes coaxed. "It's indispensable these days. Nobody ever knows the score without Newsear." He put a hand to his mouth m m emment. and smiled behind it. "Go on, put it in. It's clean." Danton hesitated. Then  he slipped the gadget into l his left ear. I For a moment, there was I nothing. j Then : ... Canton , Seven Point . Four , Cleveland , Eighteen I Point Nine , Hillsboro , Four f Point Two... Fifth Army radiation clean-up battalions presently engaged in these sectors... residents advised to stay indoors... On the Appalachian front , a small force of enemy snipers have been destroyed by local Home Guard action... Truce Forbes' pinched face relaxed, and he reached into his left ear and removed the tiny, colorless funnel and held it up between two fingers. "This little gizmo," he grinned, "is one of the nation's most potent weapons. Don't ever underestimate that fact." Danton stared at it. "Ever use one?" The lieutenant shook his head. "No. I never could afford it." teams in the Aleutians report no progress with the Eastern-Coalition Government , warn of build-up near Dutch Harbor..." Danton yanked the earpiece out. "How do you shut the damned thing off?" "That's one way," Forbes admitted. "But most citizens prefer to keep tuned. We only broadcast on the average of three hours a day. This happens to be a busy hour." Danton examined the object curiously. "It's a lot better than the gadgets we used in basic. For field instructions." "That's part of our job, too. We're manufacturers as well as broadcasters. Newsear turns out something like five thousand earpieces a day for the military. Limited-frequency types. It's only recently that we've developed adequate subminiaturization techniques to produce the unit you're holding." "I can see its military importance." Danton, no longer so sure of himself, rubbed a hand over his head where the thick blond hair once grew. "But as far as civilian importance -- " "The Government doesn't agree with you," the Director said. "Newsear is virtually the only method left for informing the public. The radio-TV blackout took care of that. How else can we reach the people?" He shrugged, as if the argument was self-evident. He leaned forward, and his small features changed as if the light had shifted on his face. "And there's still another reason," he said mysteriously. "What's that?" "Ah," the Director said. He walked out from behind the desk and stumped forward towards the door. Danton hadn't noticed the artificial legs before. "That will all be clear to you in due course." He opened the door. "Sorry we don't have a free office at the moment. You'll have to share one with somebody else." His eyes twinkled. "You won't mind too much. Your companion will be a rather charming young lady." "But what am I supposed to do here?" Forbes blinked. "You have electronics training?" "Some." "You understand sonic problems?" "Ah. You're modest. We are in possession of both your military and academic records. We have reason to believe that you were a remarkably capable student." "That's not true. I was only an average student." Danton looked down the hallway. "What charming voung lady?" "Selena McKay is her name. She's been with Newsear almost three years. A very clever young girl. Come -- I'll introduce you." They walked down the barren hallway, with its dull lead-shielded walls. The Director's progress was slow and stilted, and his face reflected the effort. By the time they reached the small, two-desk office at the end of the corridor, he was puffing, and his face was moist. The girl, with plainly-cut black hair dramatically framing a white face, looked up from her desk and greeted him. "Welcome to Newsear," Selena McKay said. "Glad to meet you." Danton shook her hand, while the Director beamed. "It's all right for today," the girl said, with a fixed half-smile. "But after this -- don't ever wear that uniform in this office. Ever. Understand?" Danton turned a bewildered look at Forbes. The Director lifted his narrow shoulders. "It's purely optional, of course. But Miss McKay has an allergy to gray-green. It would only be common courtesy..." The lieutenant looked back at the girl. Her bold black eyes were staring at the front of his tunic with such loathing that he unconsciously recoiled. "All right," he mumbled. The Director had been correct. She was a lovely girl; but the left side of her face was paralyzed. Newsear building the next morning, Mel Danton wore mufti. It was the first time in almost a year, and the tweedy stuff caused his lean, tough body to itch. He squirmed with every step, and when he entered the office he shared with Selena McKay, he whipped off the jacket and flung it onto a hook. There was a murmur of quiet, professional activity throughout the four-story building. Men of widely disparate age were moving swiftly and noiselessly through the corridors. There were radiation detection barriers on every outside entrance, necessitating a patiencetrying wait for employees of the news center. The security precautions were even more elaborate than the Army's. Danton had done little on his first day. Mostly, he had listened to Selena's dry analysis of the operational importance of Newsear, a service she performed for him without interruption of her regular duties. The extent of his labor was to sharpen half a dozen pencils for her, the points of which she had promptly destroyed with her heavyhanded scrawls on sheets of ruled yellow paper. When she appeared this morning, she noted the tweed jacket on the hook and said: "Well. That's much better. "Her smile was strange and a trifle eerie; a halfsmile that warmed just one side of her lovely face. The effect was odd, and yet, somehow, still attractive. "I think you can do more than Sharpen pencils today. I think the fifty-cent tour is in order. All right with you?" "Fine." "I'll just clean up the desk a bit. Then we'll have a look at Newsear." When they left the office, he followed at a respectful distance. Her heels clicked along the corridors, and she flung open doors with the casual air of confidence. One of the doors led to a chart room. "This is Central Intelligence," she told Danton briskly. "We get our reports directly from the military on troop movements and enemy actions all over the world -- all filtered through a sort of double censorship. The Government's, and our own. Only the events considered of pertinent importance to the citizenry ever go into their receivers. Radiation counts in local areas are reported in another room; that's an important service, of course." "Impressive," Danton grunted, watching the men and women moving efficiently between the gigantic wall charts and the chattering teletypes. "It's not easy to make sense out of this war." "That's our biggest problem, of course. The distinctions between Enemy and Ally become increasingly difficult. The picture seems to change hourly; our staff of political analysts are probably the largest single group at Newsear. Come along." The next exhibit was a laboratory. "It's only a segment of our research organization," Selena said. "This happens to be our Sonar unit; there are some fifteen others. We're constantly seeking to improve the technical side of our service. The goal, of course, is perfection in Mass-Personal communications, striving for a single, foolproof link between every individual on Our Side." "You've done a remarkable job." She grimaced. "Far from perfect. You said it yourself yesterday. The military units presently in the field are sub-standard, clumsy, outdated. The civilian population is already equipped with subminiaturized funnels. But it will take months before their limited frequency equipment reaches the fighting men. And there are other problems... "This is the broadcasting section. Probably the least complex section of our activities." She glanced up at the flashing red sign over the door. "Sorry, no admittance for the moment. We'll come back some other time." "Do you have an earpiece? Mine's in the office." She fumbled in her pocket. "Sure. Want to listen?" "If you don't mind." He took the small funnel in his hand and placed it within his ear. He heard: "... Operation Icecube under attack... Alaskan patrols report enemy bombers sighted north-north east of... He flipped the gadget back into his palm. "The second floor is hundredpercent research," Selena said. "The third floor is a sort of hodgepodge of executive offices, including our political smart boys ; I won't bother taking you there. The fourth floor -- " Her face changed. "Administrative. I guess." "You guess?" The girl shrugged. "I've never been to Four. I only understand that it's administrative. Only what that means exactly... Danton grinned. "A Bluebeard floor, eh? Sounds interesting." "Don't get ideas, lieutenant. The floor is restricted." Back in their office, Danton broke a sudden depressed silence and asked: "But why am I here?" Selena looked up. "I haven't the faintest idea. Don't you know?" "No! I studied electronics, sure. But I left college a year before graduation, to join up. And I wasn't such a hot pupil, either. There were a hundred guys with more on the ball than I had. Why aren't they here?" "I wouldn't know." Tentatively, Danton said: "And how about you? What brings you to Newsear?" "Ability' she snapped. "I'm a psychologist. One of the best." D irector forbes sent for him in the afternoon. "Recognize these?" There was a folder in his hand, and he was spilling out papers. "Looks familiar," the lieutenant grunted. "My service records." "That's right. I understand that you made quite a mark in the mental energy tests." "So they tell me. Frankly, I never knew what the hell they were all about." "Few people do. But confidentially, the Army -- and Newsear, I might add -- consider it one of the most crucial tests in the entire examination. Even more important than psych ratings, or the standard Binet foolishness. They indicate something very important in this crazy world of ours -- the ability of concentration." Danton licked his lips. "If you're expecting some electronic miracle out of me, you're going to be sadly disappointed." The Director looked surprised. "I'm no psychologist, either. And no political analyst. I'm as confused as anybody as to who's fighting who. Maybe more than most." "How about broadcasting?" the Director smiled. "What?" "We always need broadcasters, you know." Danton swore. "You mean you want me for my dulcet tones? You must be kidding." "Maybe not." The Director stood up. "But we'll talk about that later." He snapped the switch on an intercom. "Harris. I'll be out of the office for an hour. Anything comes up, you can reach me on Four." He circled the desk and opened the door. Danton hesitated. "What's on the fourth floor?" "My dear young man." The Director chuckled and prodded him outside. "You're in too much of a hurry to learn everything." A month went by, and Mel Danton became wise in the ways of Newsear. Selena McKay was his mentor. Her knowledge of the broadcasting system was nothing short of encyclopedic. Her appreciation of the problems of war reporting was equally great. Her technical understanding was easily on par with his own college level. After a while, Danton was comfortably ensconced in the seemingly unhectic routine of the Newsear employees, performing odd jobs for the laboratories and the reporters, and even -- one nervous afternoon -- sitting in as broadcaster of Newsear's end product: the news itself. "Never again," he told Selena, after the chore was done. "I just don't have the voice." "You did all right," she said grudgingly. He was getting to like her more and more. But one thing bothered him. Since her first day. Selena McKay had stopped smiling. At the end of Mel Danton's first month in the new assignment, the Frozen People began to appear. He heard the story on his own Newsear, and only remarked it because of its incongruity in a broadcast filled with troop actions and bombardments and truce talks. The first Frozen man had appeared in Scranton, Pennsylvania. He was sixty-seven -- twelve years above draft age -- and he was discovered in the middle of an intersection, a hazard to traffic. He was removed to a local medical station, and diagnosed simply as a mental case -- a catatonic. Then three other cataleptics appeared in various districts, "frozen" people who had stopped in the midst of everyday activities, as if some inner motor had ceased to function. The incidence became widespread. On the date of the Newsear broadcast, the announcer registered the approximate total of catatonic victims at a hundred and eighty. " Government health authorities," the voice said in his ear, ( are investigating the possibility that these outbreaks are the result of some new enemy weapon..." Danton spoke to Selena about the news. She replied coldly. "Frankly, I don't believe there's any sort of secret weapon involved. I think it's the state of the world. These people are retreating from an almost unbearable situation." She returned to her work, but soon looked up again. "As a matter of fact -- this is strictly confidential -- but the total we heard is a slight understatement. The smart boys are trying to determine its relative importance as a news story, so we're waiting to release the complete facts." "You mean there are more of them?" "Many more. Nobody has an accurate count, of course. But the indications are that there are some two thousand..." Danton swallowed hard. "Two thousand catatonics?" "At least," the girl said grimly. "People seem to be freezing up all over the country. We don't have word of any cases in the services. That's why I can't believe it's any enemy weapon. Isn't that sensible?" "You'd think so." "Well, it's not our concern." "No," Danton said musingly. some sixteen thousand Frozen People had been officially tabulated, and Mel Danton was summoned again into the office of Newsear Director Forbes. "Okay, Mel," he said cheerfully. "We're going to Four. I think you've had enough of the preliminaries. Now it's time for the main event." He followed Forbes down the long corridor, and into the elevators. When the doors slid open, Danton had his first glimpse of the Bluebeard floor of the Newsear building. It looked exactly like the others. They entered an office which was bare except for a conference table with six wide armchairs. Forbes flopped into one, and invited the lieutenant to sit down. He offered him a cigarette, normally forbidden on the lower floors. They smoked in silence, until the door was opened and two men, strangers to the officer, entered the room. Forbes introduced them casually as Kirsch and Douglas, members of something called the "administrative Board." Kirsch was a heavy-set man with a clumsy manner. Douglas was tall, bony-thin, with a weary distinguished face and voice. "Ah," Kirsch said. "This is the man, hah?" "Perhaps," Forbes smiled. "How much do you know about this?" Douglas's fingers rapped the table. "I mean, about this side of Newsear?" "Not a thing," Danton said frankly. "I only know the lower level. Is there something else?" Kirsch made a grating noise in his throat. Douglas looked sharply at the Director, as if displeased. "Orientation is a luxury," Douglas said icily. "We need a new man, and we need him in a hurry. Standish is -- " He paused, and frowned. "Well, you know about Standish." "Who?" Danton said. "A broadcaster," Forbes answered hurriedly. "One whose capabilities we overestimated. We need a replacement as soon as we can find one. We were considering, perhaps, that your own mental energy record..." He trailed off, and puffed on his cigarette. "Do you have a Newsear?" the thin man said. Danton removed it from his ear. Douglas took it, examined it with something like contempt, and sent it skidding along the slippery surface of the table. It rolled onto the floor with a tiny clatter. Danton looked surprised. "Kirsch," the thin man said crisply. "Give me a dirty one." The other man reached into his pocket and handed his partner a Newsear apparently identical with the first. "Slip this on," Douglas said. "I'll give you a practical demonstration. That's worth more than talk." "What do you mean a 'dirty' one?" The lieutenant held the thing suspiciously. "It's just a word," Douglas answered. "We call the regular Newsear 'clean'. It was only natural that we call -- these -- dirty. Put it in." Danton followed orders. "We'll leave you alone for an hour," the thin man said. "Don't, under any circumstances, remove the Newsear. Do you understand?" "Look -- I think you ought to tell me -- "I'll tell you nothing more!" Douglas stood up, his face darkening. "This is an order, lieutenant. And if you don't like taking orders from civilians, rest easy. I hold the rank of Colonel." Danton slumped in his chair. "Yes, sir." They left the room without another display of disagreement. Danton felt foolish. The Newsear was silent. He got up from the chair and paced the room. At one point, he rattled the knob of the conference room door, and, as he expected, found it locked. The Director had left his cigarettes on the table. He smoked another one. He studied the room. The walls were cork-lined, the floor bare and hard, the table of sturdy oak. The room was windowless. It couldn't have been more than thirty feet by twenty. Yet he knew he was being watched. He whirled, suddenly tense. "Sniper!" he whispered. He circled the table cautiously. "Sniper!" he shouted. He ducked beneath the table, trembling. If he only had a gun He crawled on hands and knees, protected by the overhang, until his fingers touched the feet of a chair. "Kill the dirty snipers," he breathed. He skittered out of cover, dragging the chair with him. "Where are you?" he screamed. He tried to raise it over his head. It was too heavy, and crashed back to the floor. Without this makeshift weapon, he felt unprotected and afraid. He dived back beneath the shelter of the conference table. That was how they found him, ten minutes later. It was Kirsch who took the "dirty" Newsear out, and murmured something sympathetic. Forbes helped him into a chair, while Douglas watched them dispassionately. Then Douglas said: "Well? What happened to you?" "I don't know." He was still trembling. "I thought there were snipers -- " He looked wildly around the small room. "Snipers. In here . I wanted to kill them -- " "Mr. Kirsch," Douglas said. "Read the order of the day." The heavy-set man sighed and reached into his pocket. He withdrew a folded sheet of paper, and squinted to read the words. "Enemy snipers are everywhere" he read. "Kill them all..." "I don't understand." Douglas smiled for the first time. "This is our Newsear broadcast for today," he said. "The one you can't hear with your ears. Only your mind." went to the first floor to collect his gear, and more importantly, to say goodbye to Selena McKay. The office was empty. The man in the next cubicle, a whispy fellow with white hair and an apologetic manner, said: "She's gone for the day. Some trouble at home, I think." "Do you know her number?" "No. You might try registry." "Thanks," Danton said. Registry obliged. He dialed Selena's telephone, and was forced to wait the usual five minutes before the call could be completed. "Hello?" "Selena? It's Mel. Listen, I came down to see you this afternoon. To say goodbye..." "Yes." Her voice was dreamy. "Yes, of course..." "I'm going to Four," he said tightly. "I don't quite understand it -- but that's what they want." "I understand." "Selena -- is something wrong?" "What?" "I hear you have some trouble at home. Nothing serious?" "Yes. Yes," Selena said. "Fairly serious. My mother -- " "Is she ill?" "Frozen," the girl said faintly. "Catatonic. My mother..." "Oh, Lord!" Danton groaned. "Selena, I'm sorry." "She doesn't know me." Her voice was quivering dangerously. "She doesn't know me, Mel -- " "Look, Selena. Could I come over? Would you mind that?" "Law of averages," the girl replied, her voice sing-song. "It's only the law of averages, Mel. A thousand a day... Why not my mother?" She laughed abruptly, and the sound chilled him. "Selena, where do you live?" "De Kruif," Selena said, almost casually. "Seventh Street and De Kruif. Why do you want to come? She doesn't even know me, Mel -- " "I'll be there in fifteen minutes. Selena? Did you hear me?" He slammed down the receiver, grabbed his coat, and left the Newsear building on the run. The address was a semi-ruin, stripped of electrical power. Danton ran past the useless elevator, and up the stairs to Selena's fifthfloor apartment. He found her sitting cross-legged on the floor, weeping into her lap, the eternal picture of woman in grief. It was the first time he had ever seen so raw emotion on the girl's face. Tears poured from only one eye, but the entire effect on her lovely, tortured face was one of sorrow and desolation. He lifted her to her feet, gently, and she leaned against him. "Selena... " "Oh, Mel. It was so terrible -- seeing her like that -- " "I know, I know..." "Do you?" She backed off and studied him. "Do you know what my mother's gone through? We were on the perimeter of a blast area five years ago. My father and sister were killed outright. My mother lost the use of one hand. I got out -- with this." She gestured towards the unmoving side of her face. "She withstood it, Mel. Four awful tragedies -- and she came through it. And now -- " She began to sob again. Danton waited patiently until the tears subsided. "I'm sure they'll find a cure," he said softly. "There have been catatonics before. They'll help her," She was moaning hopelessly. "This is different... different..." She broke from him, and walked unsteadily to the window. She folded her arms, and looked out at the gray clouds hovering overhead. "She called me at the office this morning. Something she hardly ever does. She was so worried. About snipers, she said. She felt they were everywhere, surrounding her -- " Her hands covered her face. "Snipers?" Danton blinked. "Oh, there have been snipers in the neighborhood before. But that was almost two years ago." "Newsear..." the lieutenant said. "What?" "It happened to me -- today -- on the fourth floor." "What did?" She turned to face him. "I'm not supposed to talk about it -- " "Mel! If there's something I should know -- " "Selena, I've been ordered!" His voice was pained. "I'm not supposed to say a word." She came to him. "Mel, what are you talking about?" "Selena, listen. I can't tell you any details -- and God help me if you repeat any of this -- "There's another kind of News ear" "Another kind?" Her. eyes widened. "Yes, The earpieces the Newsear personnel wear are 'clean' -- that's what they call it. The earpieces everybody else gets are 'dirty'. They have a sub-unit -- a secondary function -- that reaches right into the mind itself." "What are you saying?" Her head was moving from side to side. "It's true! There's a secondary broadcast that takes place every day on the fourth floor. A message to the public... a daily thought... a directive..." "Why? What for?" "Don't ask me to explain. I've never known about it until today. It's a way of unifying the efforts of the people -- Newsear tells them what to think." "To think?" she repeated, her voice quivering. "Mel, that's horrible! You can't direct the mind! You can't force thought on people! It's wrong! It's worse than bombs!" "But they can , Selena! I've seen the proof -- " "We don't know enough," she whispered. "We don't know what such a thing can do. What the mind will do..." She took two backward steps, her eyes fixed on the man in front of her, her hands covering her ears. "Mel!" she screamed. "They did it. They did this to my mother!" At #:# a.m. the next day, the thin man named Douglas said to Danton : "This is your home now." Danton looked around. It appeared to be more of a laboratory than a business office. "You'll sit here, of course," Danton said smoothly, pointing to the well-padded leather chair. "Don't let all those gadgets frighten you. Only three of them will actually make contact with your person. These electrodes will clamp on your head ; they're quite painless. A very mild current, nothing alarming. And you'll get used to it in time." "I see," the lieutenant said. "It will be your ability to concentrate that matters here. You must work very hard to keep your mind free of nothing but the order of the day." "And what will they be?" "The General Staff determines that. They vary from outpourings of patriotic feeling, to very specific drives." Danton stroked the back of the chair. "Have you heard much about these Frozen People ?" "Enough  # Douglas said. "What about them ? # "What do you think is causing it ? # "I've no idea , # he snapped. "I'm sure the authorities are working on it . # Kirsch came in. "We're ready to start . # "The first day is the hardest," Douglas said. "Good luck." Strapped firmly into the chair, his arms imprisoned, his brain a tool of world affairs, Mel Dan ton waited for the signal to begin. "The order for today," Douglas said, "is -- beware of spies. No one is to be trusted. Report suspicious actions immediately to your Home Guard headquarters." He clapped Danton's back. "Now all you have to do is think." He grinned, and left the room. Danton closed his eyes. "Destroy your Newsear " he thought. "Destroy your Newsear..."    (Continued from page #) the seed. That's what we've got to bring back, Sal. Between us, we have stored up a hundred and seventy-nine years of human culture. There isn't a kid back there, Sal, more than twelve years old." "We'll find a way," Sal said. The rowboat was about fifteen feet away from the thick reeds growing in the marshy ooze of the bank. Cartley heard the sound first and turned, his face white. When Sal looked toward the bank, he saw the girl. She came on out from the curtain of reeds and looked at them. She was perfectly clear in the moonlight standing there. She wore a short ragged print dress and she had long hair that seemed silken and soft and golden in the moonlight even though it, her dress, her little legs and her face were streaked with mud. Sal hesitated, then pulled heavily on his left oar and the boat nosed toward her. Up close, Sal could see her face, the clear blue eyes wet, and the tears running down her cheeks. The girl reached out and asked in a sobbing breath, "Granpa? Is that you, Granpa?" "Oh God, Oh God," Cartley said. He was crying as he picked her up and got her into the boat. He was rocking her in his arms and half crying and half laughing as Sal rowed the boat upstream. "Yes, yes, honey," Sal heard Cartley say over and over. "I'm your granpa, honey. Don't cry. Go to sleep now. I'm your granpa and I've been looking for you, honey, and now everything's going to be all right." It's funny, Sal thought, as he kept on rowing upstream. It's a funny thing how one little girl remembered her granpa, and how maybe that was the beginning of the bridge across the chasm.    the patient into Dr. Walter Needzak's office. She punched her glasses higher onto the bridge of her nose, patted the bun of hair at the back of her head, and said : "This is Mr. Stallings, doctor." Dr. Needzak motioned the patient to a chair. Stallings sat down, slowly but limberly. He still held his hat, and placed it in the precise center of his lap. The receptionist handed a form to Dr. Needzak and returned to the waiting room, after looking once over her shoulder. "You're only #, Mr. Stallfelt got me so interested and excited that I forgot what I wanted at the office, once I was there. So I thought that that was a hopeful enough sign for me to come around and see you." Dr. Needzak, a young man at # and who looked even younger, hoisted the stethoscope amplifier onto his desk, turned it on, and signalled for Stallings to unbutton his shirt. He placed the stethoscope against the bony chest. The bumping of the heart filled the room, drew a wild pattern on the unfolding strip of paper in the visual secBut the patient lived ings?" Dr. Needzak asked. The patient nodded sadly. "Well, you should be hale and hearty for another # years, judging by the report on your preliminary exam. Are you sure that it's any use for you to consult me?" "I wouldn't bother you," Stallings said, age showing only in the high pitch of his voice, "except for the funny feeling in my chest the other day. I had to visit an office on the twelfth story. The elevator wasn't running, so I walked up. Just as an experiment, I went as fast as I could. The way my chest tion of the amplifier, and created magnetic patterns on the tape. Dr. Needzak listened for two minutes, then thumbed through a reference listing of visual heart patterns. Finally he switched off the amplifier, and said: "You have no history of heart trouble." "I'm afraid not." "Well, I don't want to raise false hopes. The only thing that I can suggest is more physical exertion. Really vigorous exertion, the kind that makes you pant and tremble and get a bit dizzy. Try that every day for a month and come back to see me. There's just a trace of a flutter now, and we might be able to speed up its development." The old man smiled for the first time, at something that his eyes saw behind the white plaster of the far wall. Finally, Stallings rose to leave. Buttoning himself up, he said: "You'll send the bill?" Dr. Needzak laughed genially. "I can see that you aren't accustomed to visiting doctors, young man. The better the doctor, the more risky it is to send the bill. My policy is to request full payment before the patient leaves the office, just in case I've given the right sort of advice. In cases where I prescribe medicine, of course, you may pay for the prescription and the consultation fee simultaneously. Before taking the medicine, you understand." Again he laughed. "I understand. I should have guessed. I work in a bank myself. I hate the work. I'm tired of everything, in fact. But I know how important it is to pay promptly." The doctor had just filed away Stallings' physical record when the receptionist ushered in an extremely elderly woman. Dr. Needzak smiled broadly, and said: "Mrs. Watkins! I didn't expect to see you again so soon." He waved in annoyance at the receptionist, who hovered behind the new patient. She left, reluctantly. Mrs. Watkins groped her way to the chair, wincing when the receptionist slammed the door. The old woman rubbed her bony forehead with a mottled hand that trembled and said: "I know that I wasn't supposed to come back for another three months. But did you realize that I'll have my #th birthday before those three months are up? When a person gets to be that old, she looks forward to seeing the doctor more than she used to look forward for Santa to arrive back in the old days." "No symptoms since your last visit?" Dr. Needzak spoke more loudly than usual in deference to her failing hearing, and turned up the light to aid weak, old eyes. "None." She spat out the word. "I'm going to change doctors, if this keeps up. I've heard of a couple of doctors who aren't as scrupulous as you are. After living all this time, I think that I could be permitted one little crime, lying to them about a symptom. Then I know that I'd be made happy. What's the use being moral when you're too frail and tottery to enjoy life?" Dr. Needzak shook his head, disapprovingly. "I don't think you're quite as miserable as you think you are. Don't go to those quack doctors. Suppose you're caught, halfway through a crime? You might linger for decades, half-well, halfsick, from the effects of what they'd give you. Even the quacks won't supply you with strychnine, you know." "I know. I shouldn't have suggested it. But I get so tired of liv  jj mg. "Well, I can't see any physical trouble that could have developed enough to warrant a complete exam since your last one. Maybe those arteries will start hardening by the time you have that #th birthday. Or you could take up chemistry as a hobby. Just think what a fine explosion you might get mixed up in!" "I thought of that." A couple of tears trickled down the wrinkled cheeks of Mrs. Watkins. "But the thrice-great-grandchildren watch me like a hawk. They don't let me do anything that might hiirt me. I suppose I'll just have to wait, and hope, and wait, and pray." She rose, very suddenly. Then she shook her head disgustedly. "I don't even get dizzy when I do that, like most people my age. Thank you, anyway, doctor." Mrs. Watkins walked out with dignity. Dr. Needzak noticed that his during the two seconds that Mrs. Watkins opened the door to leave. He fumed inwardly at his patience in dealing at length with cases like the last two, whom he couldn't possibly be sure of helping. But his ill-humor was replaced by astonishment. The receptionist introduced a woman even younger than he. She was very pale, but Dr. Needzak guessed that that pallor derived from tension, not some rare organic disturbance. "Are you sure that you haven't made a mistake, Miss Tillet?" He asked the question quietly, trying to catch her eyes. She kept them resolutely on her hands, which were folding and unfolding in her lap. "I talked with several good friends before coming to you, doctor," the girl said. Her voice was very low. "You had been a good doctor for their grandparents or great-grandparents. They told me that you could help me, if anybody could." "But your preliminary examination shows nothing whatsoever wrong with you," the doctor said. "It'll be another century before you would normally develop the slightest symptom on which I'd be allowed to work. And people of your age just don't go to doctors. It's only when you're past the century mark, and know that decade after decade stretches out ahead of you, that you start feeling that a doctor might -- " "Please," she interrupted, almost inaudibly. "I don't think that a physician should allow the consideration of a patient's age to enter into his course of action. For personal reasons, I may need a doctor more than the average person six times my age." "Will you tell me something about yourself? I'm not curious, except as far as knowledge might affect my recommendations." "I don't care to discuss personal problems. Now, doctor, your assistant who gave the preliminary examination overlooked the reason for my coming to you. Right here," and she carefully touched a spot on the well-tailored dress. "I think that it might be a tumor." "What good does it do to come to a doctor for that?" Dr. Needzak said. "Tumors are so rare that there's very little chance that it's more than your imagination. And the best physician can't speed up the growth of a tumor, or change it from benign to malign." "A physician can diagnose," she answered. "If it's malign, I'll be able to have patience. I won't need to break the law." Unexpectedly, grotesquely, she drew one finger across her throat in a cutting gesture, and looked squarely at him for the first time. Dr. Needzak walked softly to the door that led to the reception room. He drew noiselessly a bolt across the jamb, locking it. Then he pointed to another door, telling the girl: "Go in there and undress. I'll be ready for you in a moment." He whistled softly under his breath, as he pulled instruments and jars of colored substances from the deepest recesses of a cupboard. The girl already lay calmly on a metal table in the inner room when Dr. Needzak entered. He staggered a trifle under a precariously balanced pile of equipment in his arms. He explained : "I should let the receptionist do the hard work like this. But I don't let her snoop around in this private room." "Will you really need all those things?" the girl asked, uncertainly. "I thought that you just snip out a tiny specimen with a little gadget, to make a diagnosis." "I could probably get along with just that one gadget," the doctor said. He pulled a mask from a drawer and snapped on the sterilite. "But I'm an old boy scout at heart. Always prepared." Unexpectedly, he plopped the mask squarely over the girl's face. Her cry was almost inaudible, as the thick gauze clamped itself over her mouth, clung tightly beneath the jaw. Dr. Needzak pinioned her shoulders to the table, while her legs kicked wildly for a few seconds. The anesthetic stopped the kicking within five seconds. He waited for a count of ten, before he wrenched the mask free. Turning up the sterilite to full strength, Dr. Needzak began to line up surgical instruments in a neat row, humming under his breath. Fifteen minutes later, the physician made a pair of injections into the girl's upper arm. Then he swished oxygen into her face until she recovered consciousness. "Wonderful stuff, this new anesthetic," he told her placidly. "It works fast, wears off just as fast, doesn't leave the patient retching. Now, you can sit up slowly. If you don't try anything strenuous for the next day or two, you'll never know that you've had an operation." Miss Tillett's eyes widened. "Operation! I came here for a diagnosis. I didn't authorize -- " "I'm sorry. I operated without your consent. But I had a good reason. It wasn't even a benign tumor that you had. It was only a cyst. If I had merely diagnosed, and told you the truth, you would have kept clinging to the hope that it might be a malign tumor. You wouldn't have let me take it out. It would have grown big enough to disfigure you, not big enough to cause you any physical damage. You would have gone through the years with a new trouble, that of deformity, and you might have been mentally warped in the delusion that you had a fatal disease. You're as sound as a rock." Something inside the girl seemed to turn into liquid. She sat with slumped shoulders, arms dangling limply at her side, and head sunk so far that her chin rested against her chest. After a moment, she rose and walked slowly into the dressing cubicle. When she emerged, she ignored the doctor, unlocked the door with her own hands, and walked into the reception room, sobbing softly. Dr. Needzak cleaned up rapidly, and hustled into his main office to see his next patient. No one was there. He grumbled to himself and opened the door into the reception room. Blinking, he saw that it was not a half-hour earlier. The doctor had heard no noises indicating a commotion on the street outside; and that was the only reason he could think of for the sudden disappearance of his patients. To make sure, he strode through the reception room, walked briskly down the short hall, and stuck his head through the door leading into the street. Everything appeared normal in the bustling business district, until a large, black sedan ground to a stop at the curb in a no parking zone. The receptionist climbed from the vehicle, two men behind her. "Miss Waters!" Dr. Needzak exploded, when she reached the building's entrance. "What do you mean by leaving without my permission? All my patients have left. They must have thought that office hours were over." The receptionist gave him one baleful look, and shoved past him into the building. And Dr. Needzak suddenly recognized the two men. "Bill Carson! And Pop Manville! What brings you big doctors down here to see a small-time pill-dealer like me?" "Let's go into your office," Pop said, softly. He was old, tall and gaunt with a perpetual look of worry. Dr. Carson, younger and bustling, evaded Dr. Needzak's eyes. Miss Waters was shoveling personal belongings from her desk into a giant handbag, when they reached the reception room. Dr. Needzak felt her eyes upon him, as the other two physicians kept him moving by the sheer impetus of their bodies into his consultation room. "Where is it, Walt?" Dr. Manville asked, looking gloomily around the consultation room. "Where's what, Pop? The drinks? I keep them -- " "The door to your operating room," Dr. Carson interrupted, hurriedly. "Let's not drag this thing out. It's going to be painful enough, among old friends. Your private office has been wired for sight and sound for the past three weeks. You shouldn't have tried to get away with that kind of practice in a big city." Dr. Needzak felt the blood draining from his face. He reached fof a drawer. Dr. Manville grabbed hk arm with a tight, claw-like grasp f before it could touch the handle. "It's all right, Pop," he said. "Nothing but gin in there. I'm not the violent type." Dr. Carson pulled open the drawer toward which he had reached. He pulled out the tall bottle, slipped off the patent top, and sniffled. Handing it to Dr. Needzak, . he said : "Okay. You need some. Then save the rest for us. We'll feel like it, too, when we're done." Dr. Needzak coughed after three large swallows. He looked at the other two doctors. "Who ratted?" Dr. Carson nodded toward the reception room. Dr. Needzak instinctively clenched his fists. He half-rose from his chair, then sank back slowly. "I thought you guys were my friends," he said. "We are, Walt," Dr. Manville said thoughtfully. "But this is business. When someone charges violation of medical ethics, we're the investigation committee. It looks like a simple investigation this time, with those tapes on file." "What does she have against you, anyway?" Dr. Carson asked. "Usually a receptionist will go through hell to cover up little flubs for her boss. Were you mixed up with her in a personal way?" "Mixed up with her?" Dr. Needzak laughed mirthlessly. "She's worked for me fifteen years. I've never made a pass at her." Dr. Manville nodded sadly. "That was your mistake, Walt. Frustration. Disappointment. Worse than jealousy. Now, why not tell us everything?" "There's nothing to tell. Those tapes give a false impression, sometimes. I just take difficult cases back there where I'm sure there won't be any disturbance." "No tise," Dr. Carson interrupted. "Things will be harder for you, if we lose patience with you. We know you've been curing illness against the patient's wishes, time after time. We just saw you take out a tumor. The poor kid will probably drag through another hundred years before she develops anything else serious. You prescribed anticoagulants to a man with an obvious blood clot. You even talked a couple with weak lungs into moving to Denver." "All right, it was a tumor," Dr. Needzak admitted. "It was malign and it would have killed her in two or three years. But she's too young to make a decision for herself. Five years from now, she may have a different outlook on her personal problems. I have ethics, and I can't help it if they don't correspond in some details with the association's ethics." "You were given your medical license under an oath to respect the ethics of the profession," Dr. Manville said slowly, emphatically. "The license did not give you the right to practice under ethics of your own invention." "Ethics!" Dr. Needzak looked as if he wanted to spit. "Ethics is just a word. There was a time when physicians spent their time curing diseases and preventing them. They called that ethics. nNow that there aren't enough illnesses left to give us work, now that people live long past the time when they want to go on living, now that we make our money helping people commit suicide the legal way, we call that ethics." "You can't annihilate a concept simply by thinking it's only a word," Dr. Manville said. "There was a time when physicians used leeches for almost every patient. They fitted that nasty habit into their ethics. You wouldn't want to introduce leeches into this century would you? But you should, if you're so consistently opposed to anything that sounds like changes in ethics." "But I've done my part to get rid of human miseries," Dr. Needzak said, nodding toward a filing cabinet. "I can show you the data on hundreds of my patients. Old folks, who just got tired of living; I helped them die legally. Even younger people, who had a genuine reason for being tired of life. I couldn't have my fine home or pay rent in this building, if I went around curing every patient. There's no money in that." "You wouldn't keep a filing cabinet for the times you disobeyed the medical code," Dr. Carson broke in. "But we have some of those cases on tape. You didn't refuse to handle the cases. You went ahead and played God, going directly against the direct will of your patients. Did you follow up all of the patients who aren't in your file cabinets? We traced the later records of some of them. Several suicided right out in the open. Their families haven't gotten back on their feet from the disgrace yet." Dr. Needzak took two more deep swallows from the bottle. He looked glumly at the low level of the liquid through its dark side, saying: "You fellows are enjoying this conversation more than old friends should enjoy the job of taking action against a fellow-doctor. And I'll tell you why you aren't too unhappy about it. You're jealous of me. You're jealous of the fact that I've been following a physician's natural instincts and healing people. You're angry with me for doing the things that you'd really love to do yourselves, if you had the guts. You aren't worried about that girl; you're peeved because you'd give your shirts for a chance to take out a genuine tumor yourself." "Admitted," Dr. Carson said cheerfully. "I haven't seen a live tumor in three or four years. They're scarce. But we can't sit here chatting. We don't want to end up arguing." Dr. Needzak rose. "What do I do, then?" "The best action would be to come along with us to the association headquarters," Dr. Manville advised, avoiding Dr. Needzak's eyes. "In a half-hour or so, you can sign enough statements to avoid weeks of hearings. Otherwise, we'll be forced to bother lots of other physicians, hunt up your old patients, endure newspaper publicity, and have a general mess." "After that, I start pounding the pavements, hunting a job." Dr. Needzak flexed his long, lean fingers. "Is it hard to learn how to operate ditch diggers?" Dr. Carson stood up and slapped him on the back. "It isn't that bad. You can find a place in any pharmacy in the country, if we get through this disbarment without publicity. You'll never be rich, handing out irritants and hyperstimulants, but -- " Dr. Needzak was already striding toward the street. The other two doctors trailed after him, waiting while he locked up carefully. They glanced at one another significantly, noting that he had unconsciously brought along his little black bag. Dr. Needzak explained as they began the two-block walk to association headquarters : "The kids are married and away from home. I suppose that I can get enough income from sub-leasing the office to keep the wife and me eating until I find -- " A grating crash broke into his sentence. The three doctors whirled simultaneously. Thin wails drifted through the constant rumble of traffic, from somewhere around a comer. People erupted from buildings, running toward the source of the noise. The doctors instinctively trotted after them. coming upon a rare sight. It was a motor vehicle accident, first in the business district for months. A school bus lay on its side, just short of the intersection. Children were clambering cautiously from the emergency door. The uniformed driver was ignoring his passengers, staring in disbelief at the radar controls at the street comer, which had failed a moment earlier. The other vehicle involved in the crash was wrapped around a power pole. It was an auto of antique vintage, produced before full automatic driving provisions. There weren't more than a dozen such no vehicles remaining on the streets of the city. The radar controls almost never went on the blink. Only the combination of the vehicle and the inoperative controls could have created an accident. Dr. Needzak led the other doctors through the thickening crowd, to the side of the bus. Kids were no longer climbing through the emergency exist, but noises were coming from within the vehicle. His bag under his left arm, he hauled himself atop the overturned bus, and dropped through the emergency exit into its half-dark interior. He saw the other two doctors outlined against the sky, as they perched on the horizontal side of the vehicle, peering down, helpless without their bags. Dr. Needzak found a small boy sprawled awkwardly around a seat, bleeding rapidly from the leg, face ashen, unconscious. The physician clipped off the trousers leg, bound the leg tightly above the deep gash, and slipped on a bandage. Then he lifted the small boy up to Dr. Carson. A girl was struggling to raise herself from the next seat, obviously unaware that the leg wouldn't support her because it had suffered a compound fracture. Dr. Needzak forced a grin when he attracted her attention. He persuaded her to lie flat. With one quick motion, he rough-set the leg. Then he boosted her out of the vehicle, and looked down to investigate the source of the plucking at his coat. It was a small, chubby boy, standing beside him. "I'm hurt real bad," the boy said. Needzak ran his hands over the boy's body to make sure the bones were sound. "You better take care of me real quick' the child said, looking more worried than ever. Dr. Needzak made sure that the blood on the boy's cheek came from only a scratch, and found the heartbeat normal. So he pulled a a sugar wafer from his bag and ordered the boy to swallow it. "Think you can climb out now?" Dr. Needzak asked. The youngster, face brightening, leaped to the door and went out unassisted. The only child remaining in the vehicle hadn't uttered a sound. But the doctor sensed that her breathing was heavier. He bent over her, and pushed back the lid of her half-closed eye. When he saw the back of her head, he stopped his hasty examination. Her words were barely audible. "Am I hurt bad?" "Why, there won't even be any pain," Dr. Needzak told her cheerfully. Before he could yell to the other doctors to call for a stretcher, the girl's breathing stopped. Slowly, as if suddenly tired, Dr. Needzak climbed out of the vehicle. Police had already dispersed the crowd. Tow trucks were waiting to haul away the vehicles. The injured children were gone. The three doctors resumed their walk. Dr. Needzak felt the eyes of the other two men on him, lost patience after a moment, and said irritably: "Go ahead, start bawling me out. But I've not signed anything yet. I'm still a licensed physician. I had every right to help those kids." The other two doctors stopped, looking at one another, as if trying to probe each other's thoughts. Simultaneous smiles spread over their faces. Dr. Needzak stopped walking, when he heard them starting to laugh. He pushed between them with a frown, asking: "Look, if you -- " Dr. Carson slapped him on the back, hard. Dr. Manville grasped Dr. Needzak's hand and squeezed it with unexpected strength. "The same thing hit us both at the same time, I'll bet," the older doctor said. "It would be the ideal thing for you." Dr. Carson was pumping Dr. Needzak's other hand up and down. "Sure. Emergency physician! I don't know why we didn't think of that in the first place. Accidents still happen now and then. It isn't to specialize in them, because it isn't steady income and it doesn't pay a whole lot. But you have those screwball ideas about helping people to get well. And that's just what an emergency physician must do." "I'll talk to a couple of the men on the association board as soon as I can get to a telephone," Dr. Manville said. "I think I can persuade them to assign you to accidents without going through a disbarring procedure, as long as you agree to stay away from general Dr. Needzak pulled his hands free and looked at the spots of dried blood that remained on the fingers and palms. He hadn't been able A new type of bus will be built as soon as countries of the world have roads to take it. The new coach is to be built entirely of plastic and will be roofed with polarized glass, so that passengers will have an uninterrupted view without having to worry about the glare of the strongest sun. Passengers will be seated in individual armchairs that can be inclined or swiveled at will. The plastic construction will make for extreme lightness, but give the same strength now associated only with metal construction. 