Put the capsule back in the tooth. The poison would work slowly, painlessly, paralyzing the nervous system,finally the heart. Sometime during the beginning of the next sleep period he would be dead. That would leave six or seven hours of darkness and isolation for him to remain dead, so they couldn't get to him in time to bring him back. He mentioned suicide to the girl during the next work period. She moaned a little and curled up like a foetus on the floor. After an hour, she got up and began inserting punch cards into the big machine again. She avoided Marquis. Marquis looked around, went into a corner with his back to the room, slipped the capsule out and let one of the tiny, almost invisible grains, melt on his tongue. He replaced the capsule and returned to the machine. A quiet but exciting triumph made the remainder of the work period more bearable. Back on his bed, he drifted into sleep, into what he knew was the final sleep. He was more fortunate than the others. Within an hour he would be dead. screaming. The sounds rose higher and higher. A human body, somewhere... pain unimaginable twisting up through clouds of belching steam... muscles quivering,nerves twitching... and somewhere a body floating and bobbing and crying... sheets of agony sweeping and returning in waves and the horror of unescapable pain expanding like a volcano of madness... Somewhere was someone alive who should be dead. And then in the dark, in absolute silence, Marquis moved a little. He realized, vaguely, that the screaming voice was his own. He stared into the steamy darkness and slowly, carefully, wet his lips. He moved. He felt his lips moving and the whisper sounding loud in the dark. I'm alive! He managed to struggle up out of the bed. He could scarcely remain erect. Every muscle in his body seemed to quiver. He longed to slip down into the darkness and escape into endless sleep. But he'd tried that. And he was still alive. He didn't know how much time had passed. He was sure of the poison's effects, but he wasn't dead. They had gotten to him in time. Sweat exploded from his body. He tried to remember more. Pain. He lay down again. He writhed and perspired on the bed as his tortured mind built grotesque fantasies out of fragments of broken memory. The routine of the unceasing bells went on.' Bells, leap up. Bells, calisthenics. Bells, eat. Bells, march. Bells, work. He tried to shut out the bells. He tried to talk to #I . #I covered up his ears and wouldn't listen. The girl wouldn't listen to him. There were other ways. And he kept the poison hidden in the capsule in his hollow tooth. He had been counting the steps covering the length of the hall, then the twenty steps to the left, then to the right to where the narrow corridor led again to the left where he had seen the air-lock. After the bells stopped ringing and the darkness was all around him, he got up. He counted off the steps. No guards, no alarms, nothing to stop him. They depended on the conditioners to take care of everything. This time he would do it. This time they wouldn't bring him back. No one else could even talk with him about it, even though he knew they all wanted to escape. Some part of them still wanted to, but they couldn't. So it was up to him. He stopped against the smooth, opaque, up-curving glasite dome. It had a brittle bright shine that reflected from the Moon's surface. It was night out there, with an odd metallic reflection of Earthlight against the naked crags. He hesitated. He could feel the intense and terrible cold, the airlessness out there fingering hungrily, reaching and whispering and waiting. He turned the wheel. The door opened. He entered the air-lock and shut the first door when the air-pressure was right. He turned the other wheel and the outer lock door swung outward. The out-rushing air spun him outward like a balloon into the awful airless cold and naked silence. His body sank down into the thick pumice dust that drifted up around him in a fine powdery blanket of concealment. He felt no pain. The cold airlessness dissolved around him in deepening darkening pleasantness. This time he was dead, thoroughly and finally and gloriously dead, even buried, and they couldn't find him. And even if they did finally find him, what good would it do them? Some transcendental part of him seemed to remain to observe and triumph over his victory. This time he was dead to stay. This time he knew at once that the twisting body in the steaming pain, the distorted face, the screams rising and rising were all Charles Marquis. Maybe a dream though, he thought. So much pain, so much screaming pain, is not real. In some fraction of a fraction of that interim between life and death, one could dream of so much because dreams are timeless. Yet he found himself anticipating, even through the shredded, dissociated, nameless kind of pain, a repetition of that other time. The awful bitterness of defeat. was dark, the same darkness. He was on the same bed. And the old familiar dark around and the familiar soundlessness that was now heavier than the most thunderous sound. Everything around him then seemed to whirl up and go down in a crash. He rolled over to the floor and lay there, his hot face cooled by the cold metal. As before, some undeterminable interim of time had passed. And he knew he was alive. His body was stiff. He ached. There was a drumming in his head, and then a ringing in his ears as he tried to get up, managed to drag himself to an unsteady stance against the wall. He felt now an icy surety of horror that carried him out to a pin-point in space. A terrible fatigue hit him. He fell back onto the bed. He lay there trying to figure out how he could be alive. He finally slept pushed into it by sheer and utter exhaustion. The bells called him awake. The bells started him off again. He tried to talk again to #. They avoided him, ail of them. But they weren't really alive any more. How long could he maintain some part of himself that he knew definitely was Charles Marquis? He began a ritual, a routine divorced from that to which all those being indoctrinated were subjected. It was a little private routine of his own. Dying, and then finding that he was not dead. He tried it many ways. He took more grains of the poison. But he was always alive again. "You -- #I ! Damn you -- talk to me! You know what's been happening to me?" The man nodded quickly over his little canisters of food-concentrate. "This indoctrination -- you, the girl -- you went crazy when T talked about dying -- what -- ?" The man yelled hoarsely. "Don't... don't say it! All this -- what you've been going through, can't you understand? All that is part of indoctrination. You're no different than the rest of us! We've all had it! All of us. All of us! Some more maybe than others. It had to end. You'll have to give in. Oh God, I wish you didn't. I wish you could win. But you're no smarter than the rest of us. You'll have to give inf" It was #I 's longest and most coherent speech. Maybe I can get somewhere with him, Marquis thought. I can find out something. But #I wouldn't say any more. Marquis kept on trying. No one, he knew, would ever realize what that meant -- to keep on trying to die when no could would let you, when you kept dying, and then kept waking up again, and you weren't dead. No one could ever understand the pain that went between the dying and the living. And even Marquis couldn't remember it afterward. He only knew how painful it had been. And knowing that made each attempt a little harder for Marquis. He tried the poison again. There was the big stamping machine that had crushed him beyond any semblance of a human being, but he had awakened, alive again, whole again. There was the time he grabbed the power cable and felt himself, in one blinding flash, conquer life in a burst of flame. He slashed his wrists at the beginning of a number of sleep periods. When he awakened, he was whole again. There wasn't even a scar. He suffered the pain of resisting the eating bells until he was so weak he couldn't respond, and he knew that he died that time too -- from pure starvation. But I can't stay dead!... You'll have to give in!" He had no idea now how long he had been here. But a guard appeared, a cold-faced man who guided Marquis back to the office where the fat, pink-faced little Manager waited for him behind the shelf suspended by silver wires from the ceiling. The Manager said. "You are the most remarkable prisoner we've ever had here. There probably will not be another like you here again." Marquis' features hung slack, his mouth slightly open, his lower lip drooping. He knew how he looked. He knew how near he was to cracking completely, becoming a senseless puppet of the bells. "Why is that?" he whispered. "You've tried repeatedly to -- you know what I mean of course. You have kept on attempting this impossible thing, attempted it more times than anyone else here ever has! Frankly, we didn't think any human psyche had the stuff to try it that many times -- to resist that long." The Manager made a curious lengthened survey of Marquis' face. "Soon you'll be thoroughly indoctrinated. You are. for all practical purposes, now. You'll work automatically then, to the bells, and think very little about it at all, except in a few stereotyped ways to keep your brain and nervous system active enough to carry out simple specialized work duties. Or while the New System lasts. And I imagine that will be forever." "Forever..." "Yes, yes. You're immortal now," the Manager smiled. "Surely, after all this harrowing indoctrination experience, you realize that!" Immortal. I might have guessed I might laugh now , but I can't. We who pretend to live in a hell that is worse than death, and you, the Managerials who live in paradise. We two are immortal. "That is. you're immortal as long as we desire you to be. You'll never grow any older than we want you to, never so senile as to threaten efficiency. That was what you were so interested in finding out on Earth, wasn't it? The mystery behind the Managerials? Why they never seemed to grow old. Why we have all the advantage, no senility, no weakening, the advantage of accumulative experience without the necessity of re-learning?" "Yes," Marquis whispered. The Manager leaned back. He lit a paraette and let the soothing nerve-tonic seep into his lungs. He explained. "Every one of you political prisoners we bring here want, above everything else, to die. It was a challenge to our experimental social order here. We have no objection learned that even the will to die can be conditioned out of the most determined rebel. As it has been conditioned out of you. You try to die enough times, and you do die, but the pain of resurrection is so great that finally it is impossible not only to kill yourself, but even to think of attempting it. Marquis couldn't say anything. The memory called up by the mention of self-destruction rasped along his spine like chalk on a blackboard. He could feel the total-recall of sensation, the threatening bursts of pain. "No... he whispered over and over. "No -- please -- no -- " The Manager said. "We won't mention it anymore. You'll never be able to try any overt act of selfdestruction again... The bright light from the ceiling lanced like splinters into the tender flesh of Marquis' eyeballs, danced about the base of his brain in reddened choleric circles. His face had drawn back so that his cheekbones stood out and his nose was beaklike. His irises became; a bright painful blue in the reddened ovals of his eyes. The Manager yawned as he finished explaining. "Each prisoner entering here has an identification punch-plate made of his unique electro-magnetic vibratory field. That's the secret of our immortality and yours. Like all matter, human difference is in the electro-magnetic, vibratory rates. We have these punch-plates on file for every prisoner. We have one of you. Any dead human body we merely put in a tank which dissolves it into separate cells, a mass of stasis with potentiality to be reformed into any type of human being of which we have an identification punch-plate, you see? This tank of dissociated cells is surrounded by an electro-magnetic field induced from a machine by one of the identification punchplates. That particular human being lives again, the body, its mind, its life pattern identical to that from which the original punch-plate was made. Each time you have died, we reduced your body, regardless of its condition, to dissociated cells in the tank. The identification punchplate was put in the machine. Your unique electro-magnetic field reformed the cells into you. It could only be you, as you are now. From those cells we can resurrect any one of whom we have an identification plate. "That is all. No. #. Now that you're indoctrinated, you will work from now on in the food-mart, because of your experience. F OR AN undeterminable length of time, he followed the routines of the bells. In the big food-mart, among the hydroponic beds, and the canning machines; among the food-grinders and little belts that dropped cans of food-concentrate into racks and sent them off into the walls. He managed to talk more and more coherently with No. #. He stopped referring to suicide, but if anyone had the idea that Marquis had given up the idea of dying, they were wrong. Marquis was stubborn. Somewhere in him the flame still burned. He wouldn't let it go out. The bells couldn't put it out. The throbbing machines couldn't put it out. And now he had at last figured out a way to beat the game. During an eating period, Marquis said to #. "You want to die. Wait a minute -- I'm talking about something we can both talk and think about. A murder agreement. You understand? We haven't been other. It's only an overt act of selfdes -- all right, we don't think about that. But we can plan a way to kill each other." #I looked up. He stopped eating momentarily. He was interested. "What's the use though?" Pain shadowed his face. "We only go through it -- come back again -- " "I have a plan. The way I have it worked out, they'll never bring either one of us back." That wasn't exactly true. One of them would have to come back. Marquis hoped that #I wouldn't catch on to the fact that he would have to be resurrected, but that Marquis never would. He hoped that #'s mind was too foggy and dull to see through the complex plan. And that was the way it worked. Marquis explained. #I listened and smiled. It was the first time Marquis had ever seen a prisoner smile. He left what remained of the capsule of poison where #I could get it. During one of the next four eating periods, #I was to slip the poison into Marquis' food can. Marquis wouldn't know what meal, or what can. He had to eat. The bells had conditioned him that much. And not to eat would be an overt act of self-destruction. He wasn't conditioned not to accept death administered by another. And then, after an eating period, #I whispered to him. "You're poisoned. It was in one of the cans you just ate." "Great!" almost shouted Marquis. "All right. Now I'll die by the end of the next work period. That gives us this sleep period and all the next work period. During that time I'll dispose of you as I've said." #I went to his bed and the bells rang and the dark came and both of them slept. ditioners enough to follow Marquis past his regular work room into the food-mart. As planned, #I marched on and stood in the steaming shadows behind the hydroponic beds. Marquis worked for a while at the canning machines, at the big grinding vats. Then he went over to #I and said. "Turn around now." #I smiled. He turned around. "Good luck," he said. "Good luck -- to you!" Marquis hit #I across the back of the neck with an alloy bar and killed him instantly. He changed clothes with the dead man. He put his own clothes in a refuse incinerator. Quickly, he dragged the body over and tossed it into one of the food-grinding vats. His head bobbed up above the gray swirling liquid once, then the body disappeared entirely, was ground finely and mixed with the other foodstuff. Within eight hours the cells of #I would be distributed minutely throughout the contents of thousands of cans of food-concentrate. Within that time much of it would have been consumed by the inmates and Managers. At the end of that work period. Marquis returned to his cell. He went past his own bed and stopped in front of #'s bed. The sleep bells sounded and the dark came again. This would be the final dark. Marquis knew. This time he had beat the game. The delayed-action poison would kill him. He had on # l's clothes with his identification number. He was on #'s bed. He would die -- as #. The guards would finally check on the missing man in the food-mart. But they would never find him. They would find #I dead, a suicide. And they would put the body labeled #I in the tank, dissolve it into dissociated cells and they would subject those cells to the electro-magnetic field of #. And they would resurrect -- #. Not only have I managed to die, Marquis thought, but I've managed the ultimate suicide. There won't even be a body, no sign anywhere that I have ever been at all. Even my cells will have been resurrected as someone else. As a number #. "And that's the way it was," No. #I would tell new prisoners coming in. Sometimes they listened to him and seemed interested, but the interest always died during indoctrination. But No. #'s interest in the story never died. He knew that now he could never let himself die as a human being either, that he could never let himself become completely controlled by the bells. He'd been nearly dead as an individual, but No. # had saved him from that dead-alive anonymity. He could keep alive, and maintain hope now by remembering what # had done. He clung to that memory. As long as he retained that memory of hope -- of triumph -- at least some part of him would keep burning, as something had kept on burning within the heart of #. So every night before the sleep bells sounded, he would go over the whole thing in minute detail, remembering #'s every word and gesture, the details of his appearance. He told the plan over to himself every night, and told everyone about it who came in to the indoctrination ward. Swimming up through the pain of resurrection, he had been a little mad at # at first, and then he had realized that at least the plan had enabled one man to beat the game. "He will always be alive to me. Maybe, in a way, he's part of me. Nobody knows. But his memory will live. He succeeded in a kind of ultimate dying -- no trace of him anywhere. But the memory of him and what he did will be alive when the New System and the Managers are dead. That spirit will assure the Underground of victory -- someday. And meanwhile, I'll keep # alive. "He even knew the psychology of these Managers and their System. That they can't afford to make an error. He knew they'd still have that identification punch-plate of him. That they would have one more plate than they had prisoners. But he anticipated what they would do there too. To admit there was one more identification plate than there w'ere prisoners would be to admit a gross error. Of course they could dissolve one of the other prisoners and use #'s plate and (Continued on page # ) Women of earth had finally attained their objective: a new world all their own and -- without men! But was it?. Thy Name Is By Kenneth O'Hara Illustrated by Zimmerman the hypo and left the ship. Bowcare -- he would be changed by ren lay in absolute darkness wonthen. He would start turning any dering when the change would minute now, becoming something start. There would be pain, the else; he didn't know exactly what, Doctor had said. "Then you won't but that wouldn't matter. After it be aware of anything -- anything at was over, he wouldn't remember beall." cause the higher brain centers, the That was a devil of a thing, Bowcortex, the analytical mind, would ren thought, not to be aware of the be completely cut off, short-cirgreatest adventure any man ever cuited, during the alteration, had. He, Eddie Bowren, the first The cubicle was close, hot, to escape the Earth into space, the sound-proofed, like a tomb. "You first man to Mars! will probably make loud unpleasant He was on his back in a small noises," the Doctor had said, "but square steel cubicle, a secretly conno one will hear you." Don't worry structed room in the wall of the about anything until you get to cargo bin of the big spaceship Mars." cradled at the New Chicago Port. That was right, Bowren thought. He was not without fear. But beMy only problem is to observe, compute, and get back into this dungeon without being observed, and back to Earth. The idea was to keep it from the women. The women wouldn't go for this at all. They would object. The women would be able to bring into effect several laws dealing with spaceflight, among them the one against stowaways, and especially that particular one about aberrated males sneaking into space and committing suicide. A lot of men had tried it, in the beginning. Some of them had managed it, but they had all died. For a long time, the men's egos hadn't been able to admit that the male organism was incapable of standing the rigors of acceleration. Women had had laws passed, and if the women caught him doing this, the punishment would be extreme for him, personally, and a lot more extreme for Earth civilization in general. If you could call it a civilization. You could call it anything, Bowren groaned -- but it didn't make sense. A world without women. A birthrate reduced to zero. A trickle of sweat slid past Bowren's eyes, loosening a nervous flush along his back that prickled painfully. His throat was tense and his heart pounded loud in the hot dark. A sharp pain ran up his body and exploded in his head. He tried to swallow, but something gagged in his throat. He was afraid of retching. He lay with his mouth open, spittle dribbling over his lips. The pain returned, hammered at his entrails. He fought the pain numbly, like a man grappling in the dark. The wave subsided and he lay there gasping, his fists clenched. "The pain will come in increasingly powerful waves," the Doctor had said. "At a certain point, it will be so great, the analytical mind will completely short-circuit. It will stay that way enroute to Mars, and meanwhile your body will rapidly change into that of a beast. Don't worry about it. A catalytic agent will return you to normal before you reach the planet. If you live, you'll be human again." A male human couldn't stand the acceleration. But a woman could. Animals could. They had experimented on human males and animals in the giant centrifuges, and learned what to do. Animals could stand # "G" consistently, or centrifugal forces as high as I # revolutions a minute. About # "G" was the limit of female endurance. Less for men. It had never been thoroughly determined why women had been able to stand higher acceleration. But human females had the same physical advantages over men as female rats, rabbits, and cats over males of the same species. A woman's cellular structure was different; her center of gravity was different, the brain waves given off during acceleration were different. It was suspected that the autonomic nervous system in women could function more freely to protect the body during emergency situations. The only certainty about it was that no man had ever been able to get into space and live. But animals could so they had worked on it and finally they decided to change a man into an animal, at least temporarily. Geneti'-#  I i .nul biochemists and other spe i.i lots had been able to do a lot with hormones and hard radiation treatment. Especially with hormones. You could shoot a man full of some fluid or another, and do almost anything to his organism. You could induce atavism, regression to some lower form of animal life -- a highly speeded up regression. When you did that, naturally the analytical mind, the higher thought centers of a more recent evolutionary development, blanked out and the 'primal mind took oyer. The body changed too, considerably. Bowren was changing. Then the pain came and he couldn't think. He felt his mind cringing -- giving way before the onslaught of the pain. Dimly he could feel the agony in his limbs, the throbbing of his heart, the fading power of reason. He retched, languished through flaccid minutes. There were recurring spasms of shivering as he rolled his thickened tongue in the arid cavity of his mouth. And then, somewhere, a spark exploded, and drowned him in a pool of streaming flame. slowly -- much as it had gone -- in waves of pain. It took a long time. Elements of reason and unreason fusing through distorted nightmares until he was lying there able to remember, able to wonder, able to think. Inside the tiny compartment were supplies. A hypo, glucose, a durolene suit neatly folded which he put on. He gave himself a needle, swallowed the tablets, and waited until energy and a sense of well-being gave him some degree of confidence. It was very still. The ship would be cradled on Mars now. He lay there, relaxing, preparing for the real challenge. He thought of how well the Earth Investigation Committee had planned the whole thing. The last desperate attempt of man to get into space -- to Mars -- a woman's world. At least it was supposed to be. Whatever it was, it wasn't a man's world. The women didn't want Earth anymore. They had something better. But what? There were other questions, and Bowren' s job was to find the answers, remain unobserved and get back aboard this ship. He would then hypo himself again, and when the ship blasted off to Earth, he would go through the same transition all over again. He put on the soft-soled shoes as well as the durolene suit and crawled through the small panel into the big cargo bin. It was empty. Only a dim yellow light shone on the big cargo vices along the curved walls. He climbed the ladders slowly, cautiously, through a gnawing silence of suspense, over the mesh grid flooring along the tubular corridors. He wondered what he would find. Could the women have been influenced by some alien life form on Mars? That could explain the fact that women had divorced themselves completely from all men, from the Earth. Something had to explain it. There was one other possibility. That the women had found human life on Mars. That was a very remote possibility based on the idea that perhaps the Solar system had been settled by human beings from outer space, and had landed on two worlds at least. Bowren remembered how his wife, Lora, had told him he was an idiot and a bore, and had walked out on him five years before; taken her three months course in astrogation, and left Earth. He hadn't heard of her or from her since. It was the same with every other man, married or not. The male ego had taken a beating for so long that the results had been psychologically devastating. The ship seemed to be empty of any human being but Bowren. He reached the outer lock door. It was ajar. Thin cold air came through and sent a chill down his arms, tingling in his fingers. He looked out. It was night on Mars, a strange redtinted night, the double moons throwing streaming color over the land. Across the field, he saw the glowing Luciferin-like light of a small city. Soaring spherical lines. Nothing masculine about its architecture. Bowren shivered. He climbed down the ladder, the air biting into his lungs. The silence down there on the ground under the ship was intense. He stood there a minute. The first man on Mars. Man's oldest dream realized. But the great thrill he had anticipated was dulled somewhat by fear. A fear of what the women had become, and of what might have influenced their becoming. He took out a small neurogun and walked. He reached what seemed to be a huge park that seemed to surround the city. It grew warmer and a soft wind whispered through the strange widespreading trees and bushes and exotic blossoms. The scent of blossoms drifted on the wind and the sound of running water, of murmuring voices. The park thickened as Bowren edged into its dark, languid depth. It seemed as though the city radiated heat. He dodged suddenly behind a tree, knelt down. For an instant he was embarrassed seeing the two shadowy figures in each others arms on a bench in the moonlight. This emotion gave way to shock, anger, fear. One of them was a -- man! Bowren felt the perspiration start from his face. An intense jealousy surrendered to a start of fearful curiosity. Where had the man come from? Bowren's long frustration, the memory of his wife, the humiliation, the rejection, the abandonment, the impotent rage of loneliness -- it all came back to him. He controlled his emotion somehow. At least he didn't manifest it physically. He crept closer, listened. I I "This was such a sweet idea," the woman was whispering. "Bringing me here to the park tonight. That's why I love you so, Marvin. You're always so romantic." "How else could I think of you, darling," the man said. His voice was cultured, precise, soft, thick with emotion. "You're so sweet, Marvin." "You're so beautiful, darling. I think of you every minute that you're away on one of those space flights. You women are so wonderful to have conquered space, but sometimes I hate the ships that take you away from me." The woman sighed. "But it's so nice to come back to you. So exciting, so comfortable." The kiss was long and deep. Bowren backed away, almost smashing into the tree. He touched his forehead. He was sweating heavily. His beard dripped moisture, There was a hollow panicky feeling in his stomach. Now he was confused as well as afraid. Another couple was sitting next to a fountain, and a bubbling brook ran past them, singing into the darkness. Bowren crouched behind a bush and listened. It might have been the man he had just left, still talking. The voice was slightly difrent, but the dialogue sounded very much the same. "It must be wonderful to be a woman, dear, and voyage between the stars. But as I say, I'm glad to stay here and tend the home and mind the children, glad to be here, my arms open to you when you come back." "It's so wonderful to know that you care so much. I'm so glad you never let me forget that you love me." "I love you, every minute of every day. Just think -- two more months and one week and we will have been married ten years." "It's so lovely," she said. "It seems like ten days. Like those first over and over again." "I'll always love you. darling." "Always?" "Always." The man got up, lifted the woman in his arms, held her high. "Darling, let's go for a night ride across the desert." "Oh, you darling. You always think of these little adventures." "All life with you is an adventure." "But what about little Jimmie and Janice?" "I've arranged a sitter for them." "But darling -- you mean you -- Oh, you're so wonderful. You think of everything. So practical, yet so romantic... so -- " He kissed her and ran away, holding her high in the air, and her laughter bubbled back to where Bowren crouched behind the bush. He kept on crouching there, staring numbly at the vacancy the fleeing couple had left in the shadows. "Good God," he whispered. "After ten years -- " He shook his head and slowly licked his lips. He'd been married five years. It hadn't been like this. He'd never heard of any marriage maintaining such a crazy high romantic level of manic neuroticism as this for very long. Of course the women had always expected it to. But the men -- And anyway -- where did the men come from? ing lane between exotic blossoms, through air saturated with the damp scent of night-blooming flowers. He walked cautiously enough, but in a kind of daze, his mind spinning. The appearance of those men remained in his mind. When he closed his eyes for a moment, he could see them. Perfectly groomed, impeccably dressed, smiling, vital, bronzeskinned, delicate, yet strong features; the kind of male w'ho might be considered, Bowren thought, to be able to assert just the right degree of aggressiveness without being indelicate. Why, he thought, they've found perfect men, their type of men. He dodged behind a tree. Here it was again. Same play, same scene practically, only the players were two other people. A couple standing arm in arm beside a big pool full of weird darting fish and throwing upward a subdued bluish light. Music drifted along the warm currents of air. The couple were silhouetted by the indirect light. The pose is perfect, he thought. The setting is perfect. "You're so wonderful, darling," the man was saying, "and I get so lonely without you. I always see your face, hear your voice, no matter how long you're away." "Do you? Do you?" "Always. Your hair so red, so dark it seems black in certain lights. Your eyes so slanted, so dark a green they seem black usually too. Your nose so straight, the nostrils flaring slightly, the least bit too much sometimes. Your mouth so red and full. Your skin so smooth and dark. And you're ageless, darling. Being married to you five years, it's one exciting adventure." "I love you so," she said. "You're everything any woman could want in a husband. Simply everything, yet you're so modest with it all. I still remember how it used to be. Back there... with the other men I mean?" "You should forget about them, my dear." "I'm forgetting, slowly though. It may take a long time to forget completely. Oh, he was such an unpleasant person, so uninteresting after a while. So inconsiderate, so self-rentcred. He wasn't romantic at all. He never said he loved me, and when he kissed me it was mere routine. lie never thought about anything but his work, and when he did come home at night, he would yell at me about not having ordered the right dinner from the cafelator. He didn't care whether he used hair remover on his face in the mornings or not. He was surly and sullen and selfish. But I could have forgiven everything else if he had only told me every day that he loved me, that he could never love anyone else. The things that you do and say, darling." "I love you," he said. "I love you, I love you. But please, let's not talk about him anymore. It simply horrifies me!" Bowren felt the sudden sickening throbbing of his stomach. The description. Now the slight familiarity of voice. And then he heard the man say, murmuring. "Lois... darling Lois..." Bowren shivered. His jowls darkened, his mouth pressed thin by the powerful clamp of his jaws. His body seemed to loosen all over and he fell into a crouch. Tiredness and torn nerves and long-suppressed emotion throbbed in him, and all the rage and suppression and frustration came back in a wave. He yelled. It was more of a sound, a harsh prolonged animal roar of pain and rage and humiliation. "Lois..." He ran forward. She gasped, sank away as Bowren hit the man, hard. The man sighed and gyrated swinging his arms, teetering and flipped backward into the pool among the lights and the weird fish. A spray of cold water struck Bowren, sobering him a little, sobered his burst of mindless passion enough that he could hear the shouts of alarm ringing through the trees. He turned desperately. Lois cringed. He scarcely remembered her now, he realized. She was different. He had forgotten everything except an image that had changed with longing. She hadn't been too impressive anyway, maybe, or maybe she had. It didn't matter now. He tried to run, tried to get away. He heard Lois' voice, high and shrill. Figures closed in around him. He fought, desperately. He put a few temporarily out of the way with the neurogun, but there were always more. Men, men everywhere. Hundreds of men where there should be no men at all. Wellgroomed, strong, bronzed, eversmiling men. It gave him intense pleasure to crack off a few of the smiles. To hurl the gun, smash with his fists. Then the men were swarming all over him, the clean faces, the smiling fragrant men, and he went down under the weight of men. He tried to move. A blow fell hard and his head smashed against the rocks. He tried to rise up, and other blows beat him down and he was glad about the darkness, not because it relieved the pain, but because it curtained off the faces of men. though he was being carried through a dim half-consciousness, able to think, too tired to move or open his eyes. He remembered how the men of Earth had rationalized a long time, making a joke out of it. Laughing when they hadn't wanted to laugh, but to hate. It had never been humorous. It had been a war between the sexes, and the women had finally won, destroying the men psychologically, the race physically. Somehow they had managed to go on with a culture of their own. The war between the sexes had never really been a joke. It had been deadly serious, right from the beginning of the militant feminist movements, long before the last big war. There' had always been basic psychological and physiological differences. But woman had refused to admit this, and had tried to be the "equal" if not the better of men. For so long woman had made it strictly competitive, and in her subconscious mind she had regarded men as wonderful creatures, capable of practically anything, and that woman could do nothing better than to emulate them in every possible way. There was no such thing as a woman's role unless it had been the same as a man's. That had gone on a long time. And it hadn't been a joke at all. How ironic it was, there at the last! All of man's work through the ages had been aimed at the stars. And the women had assumed the final phase of conquest! For a long time women had been revolting against the masculine symbols, the levers, pistons, bombs, torpedoes and hammers, all manifestations of man's whole activity of overt, aggressive power. The big H-bombs of the last great war had seemed to be man's final symbol, destructive. And after that, the spaceships, puncturing space, roaring outward, the ultimate masculine symbol of which men had dreamed for so long, and which women had envied. And then only the women could stand the acceleration. It was a physiological fact. Nothing could change it. Nothing but what they had done to Bowren. All of man's evolutionary struggle, and the women had assumed the climax, assumed all the past wrapped up in the end, usurped the effect, and thereby psychologically assuming also all the thousands of years of causation. For being held down, being made neurotic by frustration and the impossibility of being the "equal" of men, because they were fundamentally psychologically and physiologically different, women had taken to space with an age-old vengeance. Personal ego salvation. But they hadn't stopped there. What had they done? What about the men? A man for every woman, yet no men from Earth. That much Bowren knew. Native Martians? What? He had been transported somewhere in a car of some kind. He didn't bother to be interested. He couldn't get away. He was held fast. He refused to open his eyes because he didn't want to see the men who held him, the men who had replaced him and every other man on Earth. The men who were destroying the civilization of Earth. The gimmicks whereby the women had rejected Earth and left it to wither and die in neglect and bitter, bitter wonderment. He was tired, very tired. The movement of the car lulled him, and he drifted into sleep. He opened his eyes and slowly looked around. Pretty pastel ceiling. A big room, beautiful and softly furnished, with a marked absence of metal, of shiny chrome, of harshness or brittle angles. It was something of an office, too, with a desk that was not at all business-like, but still a desk. A warm glow suffused the room, and the air was pleasantly scented with natural smelling perfumes. A woman stood in the middle of the room studying him with detached interest. She was beautiful, but in a hard, mature, withdrawn way. She was dark, her eyes large, liquid black and dominating her rather small sharply-sculptured face. Her mouth was large, deeply red. She had a strong mouth. He looked at her a while. He felt only a deep, bitter resentment. He felt good though, physically. He had probably been given something, an injection. He sat up. Then he got to his feet. She kept on studying him. "A change of clothes, dry detergent, and hair remover for your face are in there, through that door," she said. He said: "Right now I'd rather talk." "But don't you want to take off that awful -- beard?" "The devil with it! Is that so important? It's natural isn't it for a man to have hair on his face? I like hair on my face." She opened her mouth a little and stepped back a few steps. "And anyway, what could be less important right now than the way I look?" "I'm -- I'm Gloria Munsel," she said hesitantly. "I'm President of the City here. And what is your name, please?" "Eddie Bowren. What are you going to do with me?" She shrugged. "You act like a mad man. I'd almost forgotten what you men of Earth were like. I was pretty young then. Well, frankly, I don't know what we're going to do with you. No precedent for the situation. No laws concerning it. It'll be up to the Council." "It won't be pleasant for me," he said, "I can be safe in assuming that." She shrugged again and crossed her arms. He managed to control his emotions somehow as he looked at the smooth lines of her body under the long clinging gown. She was so damn beautiful! A high proud body in a smooth pink gown, dark hair streaming back and shiny and soft. a long time, for him, for all the others. "Let me out of here!" he yelled harshly. "Put me in a room by myself!" She moved closer to him and looked into his face. The fragrance of her hair, the warmth of her reached out to him. Somehow, he never knew how, he managed to grin. He felt the sweat running down his dirty, bearded, battered face. His suit was tom and dirty. He could smell himself, the stale sweat, the filth. He could feel his hair, shaggy and long, down his neck, over his ears. Her lips were slightly parted, and wet, and she had a funny dark look in her eyes, he thought. She turned quickly as the door opened, and a man came in. He was only slightly taller than Gloria and he nodded, smiled brightly, bowed a little, moved forward. He carried a big bouquet of flowers and presented them to her. She took the flowers, smiled, thanked him, and put them on the table. The man said. "So sorry, darling, to intrude. But I felt I had to see you for a few minutes. I left the children with John, and dashed right up here. I thought we might have lunch together." "You're so thoughtful, dear," she said. The man turned a distasteful look upon Bowren. He said. "My dear, what is this?" "A man," she said, and then added. "From Earth." "What? Good grief, you mean they've found a way -- ?" "I don't know. You'd better go back home and tend the yard today, Dale. I'll tell you all about it when I come home this evening. All right?" "Well I -- oh, oh yes, of course, if you say so, darling." "Thank you, dear." She kissed him and he bowed out. She turned and walked back toward Bowren. "Tell me," she said. "How did you get here alive?" Why not tell her? He was helpless here. They'd find out anyway, as soon as they got back to Earth on the cargo run. And even if they didn't find out, that wouldn't matter either. They would be on guard from now on. No man would do again what Bowren had done. The only chance would be to build secret spaceships of their own and everytime one blasted, have every member of the crew go through what Bowren had. It couldn't last. Too much injury and shock. As he talked he studied the office, and he thought of other things. An office that was like a big beautiful living room. A thoroughly feminine office. Nor was it the type of office a woman would fix for a man. It was a woman's office. Everything, the whole culture here, was feminine. When he had finished she said. "Interesting. It must have been a very unpleasant experience for you." He grinned. "I suffered. But even though I've failed, it's worth all the suffering, if you'll tell me -- where did all the ah -- men come from?" She told him. It was, to say the least, startling, and then upon reflection, he realized how simple it all was. No aliens. No native Martians. A very simple and thoroughly logical solution, and in a way, typically feminine. Hormone treatment and genetic manipulation, plus a thorough reconditioning while the treatment was taking place. And the women had simply turned approximately half of their number into men! She paused, then went on. "Ii was the only way we could see it, Mr. Bowren. Earth was a man's world, and we could never have belonged in it, not the way we wanted to. Men wouldn't stand it anyway, down there, having us going into space, usurping their masculine role. And anyway -- you men of Earth had become so utterly unsatisfactory as companions, lovers, and husbands, that it was obvious nothing could ever be done about it. Not unless we set up our own culture, our own civilization, our way." "But meanwhile we die down there," Bowren said. "Logic is nice. But mass murder, and the death of a whole world civilization seems pretty cold from where I'm standing. It's pathological, but it's too late to think about that. It's done now." "But we're happy here," she said. "For the first time in a long, long time, we women feel like ourselves. We feel truly independent. The men around us are the kind of men we want, instead of us being what they want us to be, or even worse, the men being what we want them to be but resenting it and making life unbearable for both. All through the process of being changed into men, our women undergo such a thorough conditioning that they can never be anything else but model men in every sense. Their attitude as women with which they started treatment helped. They knew what they wanted in men, and they became what we wanted them to be, as men." "Very logical," Bowren said. "It smells to heaven it's so logical." It was purely impulse, what he did then. He couldn't help it. It wasn't logical either. It was emotional and he did it because he had to do it and because he didn't see any reason why he shouldn't. He put his arm out suddenly, hooked her slim waist, and pulled her to him. Her face flushed and his eyes were very wide and dark as she looked up at him. "Listen," he said. "The whole thing's insane. The lot of you are mad, and though I can't help it, I hate to see it happen this way. What kind of men are these? These smiling robots, these goons who are nothing else but reflections in a woman's mirror? Who'd want to be a man like that. Who would really want a man like that? And who would want a woman who was just what a man wanted her to be? Where's the fire? Where's the individuality? Where's the conflict, the fighting and snarling and raging that makes living. All this is apathy, this is death! You don't grow by being agreeable, but by conflict." "What are you trying to sell now?" she whispered. He laughed. It was wild sounding to him, not very humorous really, but still it was laughter. "Selling nothing, buying nothing." He pulled her closer and kissed her. Her lips parted slightly and he could feel the warmth of her and the quick drawing of breath. Then she pushed him away. She raised her hand and brushed it over his face. She shook her head slowly. "It feels rather interesting," she said, "your face. I've never felt a man's face before, that wasn't smooth, the way it should be." He laughed again, more softly this time. "Why reform your men? You women always wanted to do that." "We don't reform men here," she said. "We start them out right -- from the beginning." She backed away from him. She raised her hand to her face and her fingers touched her lips. Wrinkles appeared between her eyes and she shook her head again. Not at him, but at something, a thought perhaps, he couldn't tell. Finally she said. "That was an inexcusable, boorish thing to do. A typical thoughtless egomanical Earth-male action if there ever was one. Our men are all perfect here, and in comparison to them, you're a pretty miserable speciman. I'm glad you showed up here. It's given me, and other women, a good chance for comparison. It makes our men seem so much better even than they were to us before." He didn't say anything. "Our men are perfect! Perfect you understand? What are you smiling about? Their character is good. They're excellent conversationalists, well informed, always attentive, moderate, sympathetic, interested in life, and always interested in us." "And I suppose they are also -- human?" "This is nonsense," she said, her voice rising slightly. "You will take that door out please. The Council will decide what's to be done with you." He nodded, turned, and went through the door. There were two men there waiting for him. They were both blond, with, light blue eyes, just medium height,, perfectly constructed physically, perfectly groomed, impeccably dressed. They smiled at him. Their teeth had been brushed every morning. One of them wrinkled his nose, obviously as a reaction to Bowren. The other started to reach, seemed reluctant to touch him. "Then don't touch me, brother," Bowren said. "Put a hand on me, and I'll slug you." The man reached away, and it gave Bowren an ecstatic sensation to send his fist against the man's jaw. It made a cracking sound and the man's head flopped back as his knees crumbled and he swung around and stretched out flat on his face on the long tubular corridor. "Always remember your etiquette," Bowren said. "Keep your hands off people. It isn't polite." The other man grunted something, still managing to smile, as he rushed at Bowren. Bowren sidestepped, hooked the man's neck in his arm and ran him across the hall and smashed his head into the wall. He turned, opened the door into Munsel's office, dragged both of them in and shut the door again. He walked down the corridor several hundred feet before a woman appeared, in some kind of uniform, and said. "Will you come this way please?" He said he would. ably furnished. Food came through a panel in the wall whenever he pressed the right button. A telescreen furnished entertainment when he pushed another button. Tasty mixed drinks responded to other buttons. He never bothered to take advantage of the facilities offered for removing his beard, bathing, or changing clothes. Whatever fate was going to befall him, he would just as soon meet it as the only man on Mars who looked the part -- according to Bowren's standards, at least -- at least by comparison. He thought of trying to escape. If he could get away from the city and into the Martian hills, he could die out there with some dignity. It was a good idea, but he knew it was impossible. At least so far, it was impossible. Maybe something would come up. An opportunity and he would take it. That was the only thing left for him. He was in there for what seemed a long time. It was still, the light remaining always the same. He slept a number of times and ate several times. He did a lot of thinking too. He thought about the men on Earth and finally he decided it didn't matter much. They had brought it on themselves in a way, and if there was anything like cause and effect operating on such a scale, they deserved no sympathy. Man had expressed his aggressive male ego until he evolved the H-bombs and worse, and by then the whole world was neurotic with fear, including the women. Women had always looked into the mirror of the future (or lack of it), of the race, and the more she had looked, the more the insecurity. The atomic wars had created a kind of final feeling of insecurity as far as men were concerned, forced them to become completely psychologically and physiologically self-sufficient. They had converted part of their own kind into men, their own kind of men, and theoretically there wouldn't be any more insecurity brought on by the kind of male psychology that had turned the Earth around for so long. All right, drop it right there then, he thought. It's about all over. It's all over but the requiem. Sometime later he was in a mood where he didn't mind it when an impersonal face appeared on the screen and looked right at him and told him the Council's verdict. It was a woman, and her voice was cold, very cold. "Mr. Eddie Bowren. The Council has reached a verdict regarding what is to be done with you. You are to be exterminated. It is painless and we will make it as pleasant as possible." "Thanks," Bowren said. A woman's world was so polite, so mannerly, so remembering of all the social amenities. It yvould be so difficult after a while to know when anyone was speaking, or doing anything real. "Thanks," he said again. "I will do all in my power to make my extermination a matter of mutual pleasure." By now he was pretty drunk, had been drunk for some time. He raised his glass. "Here's to a real happy time of it, baby." The screen faded. He sat there brooding, and he was still brooding when the door unlocked and opened softly. He sat there and looked at Gloria Munsel for a while, wondering why she was here. Why she would look so provocative, so enchanting, so devastating, whatever other words you cared to dream up. She moved toward him with a slight swaying motion that further disturbed him. He felt her long white fingers rubbing over the stiff wiry beard of his face. "I dreamed about the way that beard felt last night," she said. "Silly of me wasn't it? I heard of the way you smell, of the way you yelled at me, so impolitely. Why did I dream of it, I said this morning, so now I'm here to find out why." "Get out and let me alone," Bowren yelled. "I'm going to be exterminated. So let me alone to my own company." "Yes, I heard about that verdict," she said. She looked away from him. "I don't know why they made that choice. Well, I do in a way, they're afraid of you, your influence. It would be very disruptive socially. Several of our men -- " "It doesn't matter why," Bowren said. "What matters is that it will be as pleasant as possible. If you're going to kill a man, be nice about it." She stared down at him. Chills rippled down his back as her warm soft fingers continued to stroke his bearded chin and throat. He got up. It was too uncomfortable and it was torture. He said, "Get out of here. Maybe I'm not a conformist, but I'm damn human!" She backed away. "But -- but what do you mean?" He got up and put the flat of his hands cupping her shoulder blades. Her eyes stared wildly, and her lips were wet and she was breathing heavily. He could see the vein pulsing faster in her slim throat. She had an exciting body. He saw it then, the new slow smile that crept across her face. His left hand squirmed at the thick piled hair on her shoulders and he tugged and her face tilted further and he looked at the parted pouting lips. The palm of his right hand brushed her jaw and his fingers took her cheeks and brought her face over and he spread his mouth hard over her mouth. Her lips begged. Hammers started banging away in his stomach. Music from the screen was playing a crescendo into his pulse. They swayed together to the music, her head thrown back, her eyes closed. She stepped back, dropped her arms limply at her sides. There was the clean sweet odor of her hair. "I'd better go now," she whispered. "Before I do something that would result in my not being President anymore." he thought. The devil with her and the rest. A man could lose everything, all the women, not one, but all of them. He could live alone, a thousand miles from nowhere, at the North Pole like Amundsen, and it didn't matter. He could be killed pleasantly or unpleasantly, that didn't matter either. All that mattered was that he maintain some dignity, as a man. He stood there, not saying anything. He managed to grin. Finally he said, "Goodbye, and may your husband never say a harsh word to you or do anything objectionable as long as you both shall live, and may he love you every hour of every day, and may he drop dead." She moved in again, put her arms around him. There were tears in her eyes. She placed her cheek on his shoulder. "I love you," she whispered. "I know that now." He felt a little helpless. Tears, what could you do with a woman's tears? She sobbed softly, talking brokenly. Maybe not to him, but to someone, somewhere. A memory, a shadow out of a long time back... "Maybe it's... it's all a mistake after all... maybe it is.' I've never been too sure, not for a while now. And then you -- the way you talked and looked -- the excitement. I don't know why. But the touch of your beard -- your voice. I don't know what happened. We've carried it to extremes, extremes, Eddie. It was always this way with us -- once we were sure of our man, and even before, when he was blinded by new love, we tried to make him over, closer to our idea of what was right. But now I know something... those faults and imperfections, most of them were men's, the real mens' chief attractions. Individuality, that's the thing, Eddie, that's it after all. And it's imperfections too, maybe more than anything else. Imperfections... Oh, Eddie, you're close, much closer to human nature, to real vitality, through your imperfections. Not imperfections. Eddie -- your beard is beautiful, your dirt is lovely, your yelling insults are wonderful -- and..." She stopped a minute. Her hands ran through his hair, "When you get a man made over, he's never very nice after that, Eddie. Never -- " She sobbed, pulled his lips down. "Eddie -- I can't let them kill you." "Forget it," he said. "No one can do anything. Don't get yourself in a jam. You'll forget this in a little while. There's nothing here for a guy like me, and I'm not for you." She stepped way, her hands still on his shoulders. "No -- I didn't mean that. I've got to go on living in the world I helped make, among the men we all decided we would always want. I've got to do that. Listen, Eddie, how did you intend to get back to Earth?" He told her. "Then it's just a matter of getting back aboard that same ship, and into this secret room unobserved ?" "That's all, Gloria. That and keep from being exterminated first." "I can get you out of here. We'll have to do it right now. Take that beard off, and get that hair smoothed down somehow. I hate to see it happen, but I've got to get you out of here, and the only way to do it is for you to be like one of the men here." He went to work on his face and hair. She went out and returned with a suit like the other men wore. He got into it. She smiled at him, a hesitant and very soft smile, and she kissed him before they left the room and cautiously went out of the City. The way was clear across the moonlit field and under the deep dark shadow of the ship. He kissed her and then took hold of the ladder. She slipped a notebook of velonex, full of micro-film, into his hands. "Goodbye, Eddie," she said. "Take this with you. It may give you men down there a way out. I never thought much before of how mad it must be for you." He took the folder. He looked up at the double moons painting the night a fantastic shifting wave of changing light. And then he looked down at Gloria Munsel again, at the glinting shine of her hair. "Goodbye," he said. "I might stay after all -- except that a lot of men on Earth are waiting for me to tell them something. They'll be surprised. I -- " He hesitated. Her eyes widened. Warmth of emotion moved him and he said, or started to say, "I love you," and many other things, but she interrupted him. "Don't please, Eddie. Anything you said now would sound just like what my devoted husband says, every day. I'd rather you wouldn't say anything at all now, Eddie, just goodbye."  "Goodbye then," he said again. He looked back from the opened door in the ship's cargo bin. Her face was shining up at him, her lips slightly parted, her cheeks wet. It was a picture he would never be able to forget, even if he wanted to. "When you forget to shave in the mornings, Eddie, think of me." dressed the investigation committee which had sent him to Mars. He hadn't made any statements at all up to this moment. The ten members of the Committee sat there behind the half-moon table. None of them moved. Their faces were anxious. Some of them were perspiring. Eddie told them what he had seen, what he had heard, his own impressions about the whole thing, about his escape. He left out certain personal details that were, to him, unnecessary to this particular report. The Committee sat there a while, then started to talk. They talked at once for a while, then the Chairman rapped for order and stood up. His face had an odd twist to it. and his bald head was pocked with perspiration. Eddie Bowren took the book of micro-film from under his arm, the one Gloria Munsel had given him. He put it on the table. "That has been thoroughly checked by scientists, and their report is included. I thought it surely was a false report, until they checked it. The first page there gives a brief outline of what the micro-film contains." The Chairman read, then looked up. He coughed. He mopped at his head. Eddie said. "As I saw it up there, this is the way it's going to stay. We'll never get into space, not without using the methods that were used with me. And they're too destructive. I've been examined. I could never go through it again and live. And that's the only way Earth men can ever get into space. The women aren't coming back to us. They have husbands of their own now. Believe me, those women aren't going to leave their perfect husbands. They've set up a completely feminine culture. It's theirs, all theirs. They'll never give it up to return to a masculine world, and that's what Earth will always be to them. There are only a few women left on Earth, and they're of such subnormal intelligence as to be only a menace to any possible future progeny. Our birthrate has stopped. We arc living under extremely abnormal circumstances without women. I have, as I said before, but one recommendation to this Committee, and you take it for what it's worth. I personally don't care -- much -- and that isn't important either." "What i your recommendation, Bowren?" "I assure you that the formulas in that book will work for us, Mr. Chairman. Will you accept the reports of the scientists who investigated those formulas?" "I will," the Chairman said hoarsely. "I'll accept it. Why not -- ?" Bowren grinned thinly at the ten men. "There's the secret of doing what the women have done. It'll work for us too. Our only chance for survival is to follow their procedure. We've got to start turning at least a percentage of ourselves into women." One man leaned forward and put his head on his arms. The others sat there, in a kind of stunned numb attitude, their eyes drifting vaguely. The Chairman coughed and looked around the silent hall, and at the other ten men in it. "Any volunteers?" he whispered. There were but three days in which to decipher the most cryptic message ever delivered to earth . the flashing red light on the instrument panel as he turned onto the bridge to Balboa Island. Just over the bridge, he pulled the car to the curb and flipped the switch with violence. "Harrison," he muttered. "How's the water, fella?" asked the voice of Bob Mills, his assistant. There was a beautiful moon over the island. The surf lapped at the tiers of the picturesque bridge. Soft music was playing somewhere. There was a tinkle of young laughter on the light sea breeze. Harrison was vacationing and he viewed the emergency contact from Intersolar Spaceport with annoyance. "What do you want, Bob?" "Sorry, George," Bob Mills said more seriously. "I guess you got to come back." "Listen -- " protested Harrison. "Orders, George -- orders from upstairs." Harrison took a long look at the pleasant island street stretching out before him. Sea-corroded street lamps lit the short, island thoroughfare. People in light blue jeans, bronzed youths in skipper caps, deep-tanned girls in terry-cloth. "What the hell is it?" "Don't know, but it's big. Better hurry." He clicked off. Harrison skidded the car into a squealing turn. Angrily, he raced over the bridge and onto the roaring highway. Thirty minutes later Intersolar Spaceport, Los Angeles, blazed ahead of him. The main gate guards waved him in immediately and two cycle guards ran interference for him through the scores of video newsmen who lined the spaceport street. Bob Mills met him at the entrance to the Administration building. "Sorry, George, but -- " "Yeah. Oh, sure. Now what the hell is it all about?" Mills handed him a sheaf of teletransmittals. They bore heavy secret stamps. Harrison looked up quizzically. "You saw the video boys," Mills said. "The wheels think there might be some hysteria." "Any reason for it?" "Not that we know of -- not that I know of anyway. The thing is coming in awfully fast -- speed of light times a factor of at least two, maybe four." Harrison whistled softly and scanned the reports frowning. "They contacted us -- " "What?" " -- in perfect Intersolar Convention code. Said they were coming in. That's all. The port boys have done all they could to find out what to expect and prepare for it. Somebody thought Engineering might be needed -- that's why they sent for you." "Used Intersolar Convention code, eh," mused Harrison. "Yes," said Mills. "But there's nothing like this thing known in the solar system, nothing even close to this fast. Besides that, there was a sighting several days ago that's being studied. "One of the radio observatories claims to have received a new signal from one of the star clusters..." to a perfect contact with its assigned strip. It hovered over the geometric center of the long runway and touched without raising a speck of dust. Not a sound, not a puff of smoke issued from any part of it. Immediately it rose a few feet above the concrete and began to move toward the parking strip. It moved with the weightless ease of an ancient dirigible on a still day. It was easily the largest, strangest object ever seen before at the spaceport. A team of searchlight men swivelled the large spot atop the tower and bathed the ship in orange light. "What's that mean?" asked Mills paging his way through a book. " 'Halt propulsion equipment,' I think," said Harrison. "It's a good thing the code makers were vague about that," smiled Mills. "It's a good thing they didn't say jets or rockets -- 'cause this thing hasn't got any." " Attention !" That single word suddenly issued from the alien ship. "The Races of Wan greet you." It might have been the voice of a frog. It was low, gutteral, entirely alien, entirely without either enthusiasm or trace of human emotion. "Jesus!" muttered Mills. Scores of video teams focused equipment on the gleaming alien. "The Races of Wan desire contact with you." "In English yet!" amazed Mills. "The basis of this contact together with its nature are dependent upon you!" The voice had become ugly. There was nothing human about it save only the words, which were in flawless English. "Your system has long been under surveillance by the Races of Wan. Your -- progress has been noted." There was almost a note of contempt, thought Harrison, in the last sentence. "Your system is about to reach others. It therefore becomes a matter of urgency that the Races of Wan make contact. "Your cultural grasp is as yet quite small. You reach four of your own system's planets. You have attempted -- with little success -- colonization. You anticipate further penetrations. "You master the physical conditions of your system with difficulty. You are a victim of many of the natural laws -- natural laws which you dimly perceive. "But you master yourselves with greatest difficulty, and you are Infinitely more a victim of forces within your very nature -- forces which you know almost not at all." "What the hell -- " began Mills. "Because of this disparity your maturity as a race is much in doubt. There are many among the cultures of the stars who would consider your race deviant and deadly. There are a very few who would welcome you to the reaches of space. "But most desire more information. Thus our visit. We have come to gather data that will determine your -- disposition -- "Your race accepts the principle of extermination. You relentlessly seek and kill for commercial or political advantage. You live in mistrust and envy and threat. Yet, as earthlings, you have power. It is not great, but it contains a threat. We wish now to know the extent of that threat. "Here is the test." Suddenly an image resolved itself on the gleaming metal of the ship itself. It was a blueprint. A hundred cameras focused on it. "Construct this. It is defective. Correct that which renders it not useful. We shall return in three days for your solution ." "Good God!" exclaimed Harrison. "It's a -- sword!" "A what?" asked Mills. "A sword -- people used to chop each other's heads off with them." Almost at once the metal giant was seen to move. Quickly it retraced its path across the apron, remained poised on the center of the runway, then disappeared almost instantaneously. T he intersolar council weathered the storm. The representative of the colony on Venus was recalled, his political life temporarily ended. A vigilante committee did for a time picket the spaceport. But the tremendous emotional outbursts of the first day gradually gave way to a semblance of order. Video speakers, some of them with huge followings, still dealien to land in the first place. Others clamored for a fleet to pursue the arrogant visitor. And there were many fools who chose to ignore the implications of the strange speech and its implied threat. Some even thought it was a gigantic hoax. But most men soon came to restore their trust in the scientists of the Intersolar Council. Harrison cast down the long sheet of morning news that had rolled out of the machine. "The fools! They'll play politics right up to the last, won't they?" "What else?" asked Mills. "Playing politics is as good a way as any of avoiding what you can't figure out or solve." "And yet, what the hell are we doing here?" Harrison mused. "Listen to this." He picked up a stapled sheaf of papers from his desk. " 'Analysis of word usage indicates a complete knowledge of the isn't it? "The ideational content and general semantic tone of the alien speech indicates a relatively high intelligence. "'Usage is current, precise...' Bob, the man who wrote that report is one of the finest semantics experts in the solar system. He's the brain that finally broke that ancient Martian ceremonial language they found on the columns." "Well, mastermind," said Mills. "What will the Engineering report say when you get around to writing it?" "Engineering report? What are you talking about?" "You didn't read the memo on your desk then? The one that requested a preliminary report from every department by # today." "Good God, no," said Harrison snapping up the thin yellow sheet. "What in hell has a sword got to do with Engineering?" "What's it got to do with Semantics?" mocked Robert Mills. Construct this. It is defective. Correct that which renders it not useful. Harrison's eyes burned. He would have to quit pretty soon and dictate the report. There wasn't any use in trying to go beyond a certain point. You got so damned tired you couldn't think straight. You might as well go to bed and rest. Bob Mills had gone long before. He poured over the blueprint again, striving to concentrate. Why in hell had he not given up altogether? What possible contribution could an engineer make toward the solution of such a problem? Construct this. You simply made the thing according to a simple blueprint. You tried out what you got, found out what it was good for, found out then what was keeping it from doing that. You fixed it. Well, the sword had been constructed. Fantastic effort had been directed into producing a perfect model of the print. Every minute convolution had been followed to an incredible point of perfection. was less than a ten thousandths error -- even in the handle, where the curves seemed to be more artistic than mechanical. It is defective. What was defective about it? Nobody had actually tried the ancient weapon, it was true. You didn't go around chopping people's heads off. But experts on such things had examined the twelve-pound blade and had pronounced it "well balanced" -- whatever that meant. It would crack a skull, sever arteries, kill or maim. Correct What was there to correct? Could you make it maim or kill better? Could you sharpen it so that it would go through thick clothing or fur? Yes. Could you make it a bit heavier so that it might slice a metal shield? Yes, perhaps. All of these things had been half-heartedly suggested. But nobody had yet proposed any kind of qualitative change or been able to suggest any kind of change that would meet the next admonition of the alien: Correct that which renders it not useful. What actually could be done to a weapon to make it useful? Matter of fact, what was there about the present weapon that made it not useful. Apparently it was useful as hell -- useful enough to cut a man's throat, pierce his heart, slice an arm off him . What were the possible swords; what was the morphology of concept sword? Harrison picked up a dog-cared report. There was the rapier , a thin, light, extremely flexible kind of sword (if you considered the word "sword" generic, as the Semantics expert had pointed out). It was good for duels, man-to-man combat, usually on what the ancients had called the "field of honor." There were all kinds of short swords, dirks, shivs, stilettos, daggers. They were the weapons of stealth men -- and sometimes women -- used in the night. The assassin's weapon, the glitter in the darkened alley. There were the machetes. Jungle knives, cane-cutting instruments. The bayonets... You could go on and on from there, apparently. But what did you get? They were all more or less useful, Harrison supposed. There was nothing more you could do with any kind of sword that was designed for a specific purpose. Harrison sighed in despair. He had expected vastly more when he had first heard the alien mention "test". He had expected some complex instrument, something new to Terra and her colonies. Something involving complex and perhaps unknown principles of an alien technology. Something appropriate to the strange metal craft that traveled so very fast. Or perhaps a paradox. A thing that could not be constructed without exploding, like a lattice of U# of exactly critical size. Or an .instrument that must be assembled in an impossible sequence, like a clock with a complete, single-pieced outer shell. Or a part of a thing that could be "corrected" only if the whole thing were visualized, constructed, and tested. No, the blueprint he held now involved an awareness that must prove beyond mere technology, or at least Terran technology. Maybe it involved an awareness that transcended Terran philosophy as well. Harrison slapped the pencil down on his desk, rose, put his coat on, and left the office. "... we are guilty as the angels of the bible were guilty. Pride! That's it, folks, pride. False pride..." Harrison fringed the intent crowd of people cursing when, frequently, someone carelessly bumped into him in an effort to get nearer the sidewalk preacher. "We tried to live with the angels above. We wanted to fly like the birds. And then we wanted to fly like the angels... Someone near Harrison muttered an "Amen". Harrison wove his way through them wondering where the hundreds of such evangelists had come from so suddenly. "Ya know, folks, the angels themselves got uppity once. They wanted to be like Gawd himself, they did. Now, it's us." There was a small flutter of laughter among the crowd. It was very quickly suppressed -- so quickly that Harrison gained a new appreciation of the tenor of the crowd. "That's right, laugh! Laugh at our folly!" continued the thinfaced, bright-eyed man. "It was a sword that the angel used to kick Adam and Eve out of the garden. The sword figures all through the bible, folks. You ought to read the bible. You ought to get to know it. It's all there. All there for you to read..." By Christ , thought Harrison. Here was an aspect of the concept, sword, he had not considered. Morphological thinking required that all aspects of a concept be explored, all plotted against all others for possible correlation... No. That was silly. The bible was a beautiful piece of literature and some people believed it inspired. But the great good men who wrote the bible had little scientific knowledge of a sword. They would simply describe the weapon as a modern fiction writer would describe a blaster -- without knowing any more about one than that it existed and was a weapon. could be trusted to know his swords. "Go on home," Mills pleaded. "You're shot and you know it. You said yourself this isn't our show." "You go home. Bob. I'm all right." "George... you're acting strange. Strange as hell." "I'm all right. Leave me alone," snapped Harrison becoming irritable. Mills watched silently as the haggard man slipped a tablet into his mouth. "It's all right, Bob," smiled Harrison weakly. "I know how to use Benzedrine." "You damn fool, you'll wreck yourself... But the engineer ignored him. He continued paging his way through the book -- the bible, no less. George Harrison and the bible! Mills was awakened by the telephone. Reaching in the dark for it he answered almost without reaching consciousness. It was Harrison. "Bob, listen to me. If an angel were to look at us right now, what would he think?" "For God's sake!" Mills cried into the instrument. "What's up? You still at the office?" "Yeah, answer the question." "Hold on, George. I'll be down and get you. What you been drinking?" "Bob, would he -- she -- think much of us? Would the angel figure we were..." "How the hell would I know?" "No, Bob, what you should have asked is 'how the hell would he know.' " In a daze Mills heard the click as the other hung up. "Mr. Harrison, your assistant is looking for you." "Yes, I know, Kirk. But will you do it?" "Mr. Harrison, we only got one of them. If we screw it up it'll take time to make another and today's the day, you know." "I'll take the blame." "Mr. Harrison, you look kind of funny. Hadn't I better..." Harrison was sketching a drawing on a piece of waste paper. He was working in quick rough strokes, copying something from a book. "They'll blame us both, Mr. Harrison. Anyway, it might hold up somebody who's got a real idea..." "# have a real idea, Kirk. I'm going to draw it for you." The metal worker noticed that the book Harrison was copying from was a dictionary, a very old and battered one. "Here, can you follow what I've drawn?" The metal worker accepted it reluctantly, giving Harrison an odd, almost patronizing look. "This is crazy." "Kirk!" "Look, Mr. Harrison. We worked a long time together. You..." Harrison suddenly rose from the chair. "This is our one chance of beating this thing, no matter how crazy it seems. Will you do the job?" "You believe you got something, eh," the other said. "You think you have?" "I have to have." "Gentlemen," said the President of the Intersolar Council. "There is very little to say. There can be no denying the fact that we have exhausted our efforts at finding a satisfactory solution. "The contents of this book of reports represents the greatest concentration of expert reasoning perhaps ever applied to a single problem. "But alas, the problem remains -- unsolved." He paused to glance at his wristwatch. "The aliens return in an hour. As you very well know there is one action that remains for us. It is one we have held to this hour. It is one that has always been present and one that we have been constantly urged to use. "Force, gentlemen. It is not insignificant. It lies at our command. It represents the technology of the Intersolar alliance. I will entertain a motion to use it." There were no nay votes. ule. The ship grew from a tiny bright speck in the sky to full size. It settled to a graceful landing as before on the strip and silently moved into the revetment. Again it spoke in the voice of the frog, but the tone was, if anything, less human this time. "Earthmen, we have come for your solution." At that instant a hundred gun crews stiffened and waited for a signal behind their carefully camouflaged blast plates and inside dummy buildings... Harrison was running. The Administration building was empty. His footsteps echoed through the long, silent halls. He headed for an emergency exit that led directly to the blast tunnel. All doors were locked. The only way was over the wall. He paused and tossed the awkward, heavy object over the ten-foot wall. Then, backing toward the building, he ran and jumped for a hold onto the wall's edge. He failed by several inches to reach it. "Earthmen, we have come for your solution." He ran at the wall once more. This time he caught a fair hold with one hand. Digging at the rough concrete with his feet he was able to secure the hold and begin pulling his body upward. Quickly he was over the wall and onto the apron, a hundred yards from the shining metal ship. "Wait!" he shouted. "Wait, for God's sake!" Picking up the object he had tossed over the wall, he raised it above his head and ran toward the alien ship. "Wait! Here is the solution," he gasped. Somehow the command to fire was not given. There was a long moment of complete silence on the field. Nothing moved. Then the voice of the frog boomed from the alien ship. "The solution appears to be correct." The alien left three days later. Regular communications would begin within the week. Future meetings would work out technical difficulties. Preliminary trade agreements, adequately safe, guarded, were drafted and transmitted to the ship. The Races of Man and the Races of Wan were in harmony. "It was simply too obvious for any of us to notice," explained Harrison. "It took that street-comer evangelist to jar something loose -- even then it was an accident." "And the rest of us -- " started Mills. "While all of us worked on the assumption that the test involved a showing of strength -- a flexing of technological muscle." "I still don't see -- "  "Well, the evangelist put the problem on the right basis. He humbled us, exalted the aliens -- that is, he thought the alien was somehow a messenger from God to put us in our places." "We were pretty humble ourselves, especially the last day," protested Mills. "But humble about our technology" put in Harrison. "The aliens must be plenty far beyond us technologically. But how about their cultural superiority. Ask yourself how. a culture that could produce the ship we've just seen could survive without -- well destroying itself." "I still don't understand." "The aliens developed pretty much equally in all directions. They developed force -- plenty of it, enough force to kick that big ship through space at the speed of light plus. They must also have learned to control force, to live with it." "Maybe you better stick to the sword business," said Mills. "The sword is the crux of the matter. What did the alien say about the sword? 'It is defective.' It is defective, Bob. Not as an instrument of death. It will kill a man or injure him well enough. "But a sword -- or any other instrument of force for that matter -- is a terribly ineffectual tool. It was originally designed to act as a tool of social control. Did it -- or any subsequent weapon of force -- do a good job at that? "As long as man used swords, or gunpowder, or atom bombs, or hydrogen bombs, he was doomed to a fearful anarchy of unsolved problems and dreadful immaturity. "No, the sword is not useful. To fix it -- to 'correct that which renders it not useful' -- meant to make it something else. Now what in the hell did that mean? What can you do with a sword?" "You mean besides cut a man in two with it," said Mills. "Yes, what can you do with it besides use it as a weapon? Here our street-corner friend referred me to the right place: The bible! " They shall beat their swords into ploughshares, and their spears into pruning-hooks; nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more. "The aliens just wanted to know if we meant what we said." "Do we?" "We better. It's going to take a hell of a lot more than a silly ploughshare to convince those babies on that ship. But there's more to it than that. The ability of a culture finally to pound all of its swords -- its intellectual ones as well as its steel ones -- into ploughshares must be some kind of least common denominator for cultures that are headed for the stars." Beneath the stagnant water shadowed by water rotifers -- but it was their world, and they resented intrusion. the rotifers By Robert Abernathy Illustrated by Virgil Finlay H enry Chatham knelt by the brink of his garden pond, a glass fish bowl cupped in his thin, nervous hands. Carefully he dipped the bowl into the green-scummed water and, moving it gently, let trailing streamers of submerged water weeds drift into it. Then he picked up the old scissors he had laid on the bank, and clipped the stems of the floating plants, getting as much of them as he could in the container. When he righted the bowl and got stiffly to his feet, it contained, he thought hopefully, a fair cross-section of fresh-water plankton. He was pleased with himself for remembering that term from the book he had studied assiduously for the last few nights in order to be able to rope with Harry's inevitable  I I I  : ions. I here was even a shiny black water beetle doing insane circles on the surface of the water in the fish bowl. At sight of the insect, the eyes of the twelve-year-old boy, who had been standing by in silent expectation, widened with interest. "What's that thing, Dad?" he asked excitedly. "What's that crazy bug?" "I don't know its scientific name, I'm afraid," said Henry Chatham. "But when I was a boy we used to call them whirligig beetles." "He doesn't seem to think he has enough room in the bowl," said Harry thoughtfully. "Maybe we better put him back in the pond. Dad." "I thought you might want to look at him through the microscope," the father said in some surprise. "I think we ought to put him back," insisted Harry. Mr. Chatham held the dripping bowl obligingly. Harry's hand, a thin boy's hand with narrow sensitive fingers, hovered over the water, and when the beetle paused for a moment in its gyrations, made a dive for it. But the whirligig beetle, saw the hand coming, and, quicker than a wink, plunged under the water and scooted rapidly to the very bottom of the bowl. Harry's young face was rueful; he wiped his wet hand on his trousers. "I guess he wants to stay," he supposed. The two went up the garden path together and into the house, Mr. Chatham bearing the fish bowl before him like a votive offering. Harry's mother met them at the door, brandishing an old towel. "Here," she said firmly, "you wipe that thing off before you bring it in the house. And don't drip any of that dirty pond water on my good carpet." "It's not dirty," said Henry Chatham. "It's just full of life, plants and animals too small for the eye to see. But Harry's going to see them with his microscope." He accepted the towel and wiped the water and slime from the outside of the bowl; then, in the living-room, he set it beside an open window, where the life-giving summer sun slanted in and fell on the green plants. stood nearby, in a good light. It was an expensive microscope, no toy for a child, and it magnified four hundred diameters. Henry Chatham had bought it because he believed that his only son showed a desire to peer into the mysteries of smallness, and so far Harry had not disappointed him; he had been ecstatic over the instrument. Together they had compared hairs from their two heads, had seen the point of a fine sewing needle made to look like the tip of a crowbar by the lowest power of the microscope, had made grains of salt look like discarded chunks of glass brick, had captured a house-fly and marvelled at its clawed hairy feet, its great red faceted eyes, and the delicate veining and fringing of its wings. Harry was staring at the bowl of pond water in a sort of fascination. "Are there germs in the water, Dad? Mother says pond water is full of germs." "I suppose so," answered Mr. Chatham, somewhat embarrassed. The book on microscopic freshwater fauna had been explicit about Paramecium, and Euglena, diatomes and rhizopods, but it had failed to mention anything so vulgar as germs. But he supposed that which the book called Protozoa, the one-celled animalcules, were the same as germs. He said, "To look at things in water like this, you want to use a well-slide. It tells how to fix one in the instruction book." He let Harry find the glass slide with a cup ground into it, and another smooth slip of glass to cover it. Then he half-showed, half-told him how to scrape gently along the bottom sides of the drifting leaves, to capture the teeming life that dwelt there in the slime. When the boy understood, his young hands were quickly more skillful than his father's; they filled the well with a few drops of water that was promisingly green and murky. Already Harry knew how to adjust the lighting mirror under the stage of the microscope and turn th# focusing screws. He did so, bent intently over the eyepiece, squinting down the polished barrel in the happy expectation of wonders. Henry Chatham's eyes wandered to the fish bowl, where the whirligig beetle had come to the top again and was describing intricate patterns among the water plants. He looked back to his son, and saw that Harry had ceased to turn the screws and instead was just looking -- looking with a rapt, delicious fixity. His hands lay loosely clenched on the table top, and he hardly seemed to breathe. Only once or twice his lips moved as if to shape an exclamation that was snatched away by some new vision. "Have you got it, Harry?" asked his father after two or three minutes during which the boy did not move. Harry took a last long look, then glanced up, blinking slightly. "You look, Dad!" he exclaimed warmly. "It's -- it's like a garden in the water, full of funny little people!" Mr. Chatham, not reluctantly, bent to gaze into the eyepiece. This was new to him too, and instantly he saw the aptness of Harry's simile. There was a garden there, of weird, green, transparent stalks composed of plainly visible cells fastened end to end, with globules and bladders like fruits or seed-pods attached to them, floating among them; and in the garden the strange little people swam to and fro, or clung with odd appendages to the stalks and branches. Their bodies were transparent like the plants, and in them were pulsing hearts and other organs plainly visible. They looked a little like sea horses with pointed tails, but their heads were different, small and rounded, with big, dark, glistening eyes. All at once Mr. Chatham realized that Harry was speaking to him, still in high excitement. "What are they, Dad?" he begged to know. His father straightened up and shook his head puzzledly. "I don't know, Harry," he answered slowly, casting about in his memory. He seemed to remember a microphotograph of a creature like those in the hook he had studied, but the name that had gone with it eluded him. He had worked as an accountant for so many years that his memory was all for figures now. He bent over once more to immerse his eyes and mind in the green water-garden on the slide. The little creatures swam to and fro as before, growing hazy and dwindling or swelling as they swam out of the narrow focus of the lens; he gazed at those who paused in sharp definition, and saw that, although he had at first seen no visible means of propulsion, each creature bore about its head a halo of thread-like, flickering cilia that lashed the water and drew it forward, for all the world like an airplane propeller or a rapidly turning wheel. "I know what they are!" exclaimed Henry Chatham, turning to his son with an almost boyish excitement. "They're rotifers! That means 'wheel-bearers', and they were called that because to the first scientists who saw them it looked like they swam with wheels." Harry had got down the book and was leafing through the pages. He looked up seriously. "Here they are," he said. "Here's a picture that looks almost like the ones in our pond water." "Let's see," said his father. They looked at the pictures and descriptions of the Rotifera; there was a good deal of concrete information on the habits and physiology of these odd and complex little animals who live their swarming lives in the shallow, stagnant waters of the Earth. It said that they were much more highly organized than Protozoa, having a discernible heart, brain, digestive system, and nervous system, and that their reproduction was by means of two sexes like that of the higher orders. Beyond that, they were a mystery; their relationship to other lifeforms remained shrouded in doubt. "You've got something interesting there," said' Henry Chatham with satisfaction. "Maybe you'll find out something about them that nobody knows yet." He was pleased when Harry spent all the rest of that Sunday afternoon peering into the microscope, watching the rotifers, and even more pleased when the boy found a pencil and paper and tried, in an amateurish way, to draw and describe what he saw in the green water-garden. Beyond a doubt, Henry thought, here was a hobby that had captured Harry as nothing else ever had. pleased. When her husband laid down his evening paper and went into the kitchen for a drink of water, she cornered him and hissed at him: "I told you you had no business buying Harry a thing like that! If he keeps on at this rate, he'll wear his eyes out in no time." Henry Chatham set down his water glass and looked straight at his wife. "Sally, Harry's eyes are young and he's using them to learn with. You've never been much worried over me, using my eyes up eight hours a day, five days a week, over a blind-alley bookkeeping job." He left her angrily silent and went back to his paper. He would lower the paper every now and then to watch Harry, in his corner of the living-room, bowed obliviously over the microscope and the secret life of the rotifers. Once the boy glanced up from his periodic drawing and asked, with the air of one who proposes a pondered question: "Dad, if you look through a microscope the wrong way is it a telescope?" Mr. Chatham lowered his paper and bit his underlip. "I don't think so -- no, I don't know. When you look through a microscope, it makes things seem closer -- one way, that is ; if you looked the other way, it would probably make them seem farther off. What did you want to know for?" "Oh -- nothing," Harry turned back to his work. As if on afterthought, he explained, "I was wondering if the rotifers could see me when I'm looking at them." Mr. Chatham laughed, a little nervously, because the strange fancies which his son sometimes voiced upset his ordered mind. Remembering the dark glistening eyes of the rotifers he had seen, however, he could recognize whence this question had stemmed. At dusk, Harry insisted on setting up the substage lamp which had been bought with the microscope, and by whose light he could go on looking until his bedtime, when his father helped him arrange a wick to feed the little glass-covered well in the slide so it would not dry up before morning. It was mother's strenuous complaints, that the boy went to bed at ten o'clock. In the following days his interest became more and more intense. He spent long hours, almost without moving, watching the rotifers. For the little animals had become the sole object which he desired to study under the microscope, and even his father found it difficult to understand such an enthusiasm. During the long hours at the office to which he commuted, Henry Chatham often found the vision of his son, absorbed with the invisible world that the microscope had opened to him, coming between him and the columns in the ledgers. And sometimes, too, he envisioned the dim green water-garden where the little things swam to and fro, and a strangeness filled his thoughts. On Wednesday evening, he glanced at tire fish bowl and noticed that the water beetle, the whirligig beetle, was missing. Casually, he asked his son about it. "I had to get rid of him," said the boy with a trace of uneasiness in his manner. "I took him out and squashed him." "Why did you have to do that?" "He was eating the rotifers and their eggs," said Harry, with what seemd to be a touch of remembered anger at the beetle. He glanced toward his work-table, where three or four well-slides with small green pools under their glass covers now rested in addition to the one that was under the microscope. "How did you find out he was eating them?" inquired Mr. Chatham, feeling a warmth of pride at the thought that Harry had discovered such a scientific fact for himself. The boy hesitated oddly. "I -- I looked it up in the book," he answered. His father masked his faint disappointment. "That'S fine," he said. "I guess you find out more about them all the time." "Uh-huh," admitted Harry, turning back to his table. There was undoubtedly something a little strange about Harry's manner; and now Mr. Chatham realized that it had been two days since Harry had asked him to "Quick, take a look!" at the newest wonder he had discovered. With this thought teasing at his mind, the father walked casually over to the table where his son sat hunched and, looking down at the litter of slides and papers -- some of which were covered with figures and scribblings of which he could make nothing. He said diffidently, "How about a look?" Harry glanced up as if startled. He was silent a moment; then he slid reluctantly from his chair and said, "All right." Mr. Chatham sat down and bent over the microscope. Puzzled and a little hurt, he twirled the focusing vernier and peered into the eyepiece, looking down once more into the green water world of the rotifers. under the lens, and they swam lazily to and fro, their cilia beating like miniature propellers. Their dark eyes stared, wet and glistening; they drifted in the motionless water, and clung with sucker-like pseudo-feet to the tangled plant stems. Then, as he almost looked away, one of them detached itself from the group and swam upward, toward him, growing larger and blurring as it rose out of the focus of the microscope. The last thing that remained defined, before it became a shapeless gray blob and vanished, was the dark blotches of the great cold eyes, seeming to stare full at him -- cold, motionless, but alive. It was a curious experience. Henry Chatham drew suddenly back from the eyepiece, with an involuntary shudder that he could not explain to himself. He said haltingly, "They look interesting." "Sure, Dad," said Harry. He moved to occupy the chair again, and his dark young head bowed once more over the microscope. His father walked back across the room and sank gratefully into his armchair -- after all, it had been a hard day at the office. He watched Harry work the focusing screws as if trying to find something, then take his pencil and begin to write quickly and impatiently. It was with a guilty feeling of prying that, after Harry had been sent reluctantly to bed, Henry Chatham took a tentative look at those papers which lay in apparent disorder on his son's work table. He frowned uncomprehendingly at the things that were written there; it was neither mathematics nor language, but many of the scribblings were jumbles of letters and figures. It looked like code, and he remembered that less than a year ago, Harry had been passionately interested in cryptography, and had shown what his father, at least, believed to be a considerable aptitude for such things... But what did cryptography have to do with microscopy, or codes with -- rotifers? Nowhere did there seem to be a key, but there were occasional words and phrases jotted into the margins of some of the sheets. Mr. Chatham read these, and learned nothing. "Can't dry up, but they can," said one. "Beds of germs," said another. And in the corner of one sheet, "I -- Yes. # -- No." The only thing that looked like a translation was the note: "rty#pr is the pond." Mr. Chatham shook his head bewilderedly, replacing the sheets carefully as they had been. Why should Harry want to keep notes on his scientific hobby in code? he wondered, rationalizing even as he wondered. He went to bed still puzzling, but it did not keep him from sleeping, for he was tired. Then, only the next evening, his wife maneuvered to get him alone with her and burst out passionately: "Henry, I told you that microscope was going to ruin Harry's eyesight ! I was watching him today when he didn't know I was watching him, and I saw him winking and blinking right while he kept on looking into the thing. I was minded to stop him then and there, but I want you to assert your authority with him and tell him he can't go on." Henry Chatham passed one nervous hand over his own aching eyes. He asked mildly, "Are you sure it wasn't just your imagination, Sally? After all, a person blinks quite normally, you know." "It was not my imagination!" snapped Mrs. Chatham. "I know the symptoms of eyestrain when I see them, I guess. You'll have to stop Harry using that thing so much, or else be prepared to buy him glasses." "All right, Sally," said Mr. Chatham wearily. "I'll see if I can't persuade him to be a little more moderate." He went slowly into the livingroom. At the moment, Harry was not using the microscope; instead, he seemed to be studying one of his cryptic pages of notes. As his father entered, he looked up sharply and swiftly laid the sheet down -- face down. Perhaps it wasn't all Sally's imagination; the boy did look nervous, and there was a drawn, white look to his thin young face. His father said gently, "Harry, Mother tells me she saw you blinking, as if your eyes were tired, when you were looking into the microscope today. You know if you look too much, it can be a strain on your sight." Harry nodded quickly, too quickly, perhaps. "Yes, Dad," he said. "I read that in the book. It says there that if you close the eye you're looking with for a little while, it rests you and your eyes don't get tired. So I was practising that this afternoon. Mother must have been watching me then, and got the wrong idea." "Oh," said Henry Chatham. "Well, it's good that you're trying to be careful. But you've got your mother worried, and that's not so good. I wish, myself, that you wouldn't spend all your time with the microscope. Don't you ever play baseball with the fellows any more?" "I haven't got time," said the boy, with a curious stubborn twist to his mouth. "I can't right now, Dad." He glanced toward the microscope. "Your rotifers won't die if you leave them alone for a while. And if they do, there'll always be a new crop." "But I'd lose track of them," said Harry strangely. "Their lives are so short -- they live so awfully fast. You don't know how fast they live." "I've seen them," answered his father. "I guess they're fast, all right." He did not know quite what to make of it all, so he settled himself in his chair with his paper. But that night, after Harry had gone later than usual to bed, he stirred himself to take down the book that dealt with life in pondwater. There was a memory pricking at his mind; the memory of the water beetle, which Harry had killed because, he said, he was eating the rotifers and their eggs. And the boy had said he had found that fact in the book. Mr. Chatham turned through the book; he read, with aching eyes, all that it said about rotifers. He searched for information on the beetle, and found there was a whole family of whirligig beetles. There was some material here on the characteristics and habits of the Gyrinidae, but nowhere did it mention the devouring of rotifers or their eggs among their customs. He tried the topical index, but there was no help there. Harry' must have lied, thought his father with a whirling head. But why, why in God's name should he say he'd looked a thing up in the book when he must have found it out for himself, the hard way? There was no sense in it. He went back to the book, convinced that, sleepy as he was, he must have missed a point. The information simply wasn't there. He got to his feet and crossed the room to Harry's work table; he switched on the light over it and stood looking down at the pages of mystic notations. There were more pages now, quite a few. But none of them seemed to mean anything. The earlier pictures of rotifers which Harry had drawn had given way entirely to mysterious figures. Then the simple explanation occurred to him, and he switched off the light with a deep feeling of relief. Harry hadn't really known that the water beetle ate rotifers; he had just suspected it. And, with his boy's respect for fair play, he had hesitated to admit that he had executed the beetle merely on suspicion. That didn't take the lie away, but it removed the mystery at least. H enry Chatham slept badly that night and dreamed distorted dreams. But when the alarm clock shrilled in the gray of morning, jarring him awake, the dream in which he had been immersed skittered away to the back of his mind, out of knowing, and sat there leering at him with strange, dark, glistening eyes. He dressed, washed the flat morning taste out of his mouth with coffee, and took his way to his train and the ten-minute ride into the city. On the way there, instead of snatching a look at the morning paper, he sat still in his seat, head bowed, trying to recapture the dream whose vanishing made him uneasy. He was superstitious about dreams in an up-to-date way, believing them not warnings from some Beyond outside himself, but from a subsconscious more knowing than the waking conscious mind. During the morning his work went slowly, for he ket pausing, sometimes in the midst of totalling a column of figures, to grasp at some mocking half-memory of that dream. At last, elbows on his desk, staring unseeingly at the clock on the wall, in the midst of the subdued murmur of the office, his mind went back to Harry, dark head bowed motionless over the barrel of his microscope, looking, always looking into the pale green watergardens and the unseen lives of the beings that... All at once it came to him, the dream he had dreamed. He had been bending over the microscope, he had been looking into the unseen world, and the horror of what he had seen gripped him now and brought out the chill sweat on his body. For he had seen his son there in the clouded water, among the twisted glassy plants, his face turned upward and eyes wide in the agonized appeal of the drowning; and bubbles rising, fading. But abound him had been a swarm of the weird creatures, and they had been dragging him down, down, blurring out of focus, and their great dark eyes glistening wetly, coldly... He was sitting rigid at his desk, his work forgotten; all at once he saw the clock and noticed with a start that it was already eleven a.m. A fear he could not define seized on him, and his hand reached spasmodically for the telephone on his desk. But before he touched it, it began ringing. After a moment's paralysis, he picked up the receiver. It was his wife's voice that came shrilly over the wires. "Henry!" she cried. "Is that you?" "Hello, Sally," he said with stiff lips. Her voice as she answered seemed to come nearer and go farther away, and he realized that his hand holding the instrument was shaking. "Henry, you've got to come home right now. Harry's sick. He's got a high fever, and he's been asking for you." He moistened his lips and said, "I'll be right home. I'll take a taxi." "Hurry!" she exclaimed. "He's been saying queer things. I think he's delirious." She paused, and added, "And it's all the fault of that microscope you bought him!" "I'll be right home," he repeated dully. to meet him; she must be upstairs, in Harry's bedroom. He paused in the living room and glanced toward the table that bore the microscope; the black, gleaming thing still stood there, but he did not see any of the slides, and the papers were piled neatly together to one side. His eyes fell on the fish bowl; it was empty, clean and shining. Fie knew Harry hadn't done those things; that was Sally's neatness. Abruptly, instead of going straight up the stairs, he moved to the table and looked down at the pile of papers. The one on top was almost blank; on it was written several times: rty#pr... rty#pr... His memory for figure combinations served him; he remembered what had been written on another page : "rty#pr is the pond." That made him think of the pond, lying quiescent under its green scum and trailing plants at the end of the garden. A step on the stair jerked him around. It was his wife, of course. She said in a voice sharp-edged with apprehension: "What are you doing down here? Harry wants you. The doctor hasn't come; I phoned him just before I called you, but he hasn't come." He did not answer. Instead he gestured at the pile of papers, the empty fish bowl, an imperative question in his face. "I threw that dirty water back in the pond. It's probably what he caught something from. And he was breaking himself down, humping over that thing. It's your fault, for getting it for him. Are you coming?" She glared coldly at him, turning back to the stairway. "I'm coming," he said heavily, and followed her upstairs. Harry lay back in his bed, a low mound under the covers. His head was propped against a single pillow, and his eyes were half-closed, the lids swollen-looking, his face hotly flushed. He was breathing slowly as if asleep. But as his father entered the room, he opened his eyes as if with an effort, fixed them on him, said, "Dad... I've got to tell you." Mr. Chatham took the chair by the bedside, quietly, leaving his wife to stand. He asked, "About what, Harry?" "About -- things." The boy's eyes shifted to his mother, at the foot of his bed. "I don't want to talk to her. She thinks it's just fever. But you'll understand." Henry Chatham lifted his gaze to meet his wife's. "Maybe you'd better go downstairs and wait for the doctor, Sally." She looked hard at him, then turned abruptly to go out. "All right," she said in a thin voice, and closed the door softly behind her. "Now what did you want to tell me, Harry?" "About them... the rotifers," the boy said. His eyes had drifted half-shut again but his voice was clear. "They did it to me... on purpose." "Did what?" "I don't know... They used one of their cultures. They've got all kinds: beds of germs, under the leaves in the water. They've been growing new kinds, that will be worse than anything that ever was before... They live so fast, they work so fast." Henry Chatham was silent, leaning forward beside the bed. "It was only a little while, before I found out they knew about me. I could see them through my microscope, but they could see me too... And they kept signaling, swimming and turning... I won't tell you how to talk to them, because nobody ought to talk to them ever again. Because they find out more than they tell... They know about us, now, and they hate us. They never knew before -- that there was anybody but them... So they want to kill us all." "But why should they want to do that?" asked the father, as gently as he could. He kept telling himself, "He's delirious. It's like Sally says, he's been wearing himself out, thinking too much about -- the rotifers. But the doctor will be here pretty soon, the doctor will know what to do." "They don't like knowing that they aren't the only ones on Earth that can think. I expect people would be the same way." "But they're such little things, Harry. They can't hurt us at all." The boy's eyes opened wide, shadowed with terror and fever. "I told you, Dad -- They're growing new ones... And they kept telling me to take them back to the pond, so they could tell all the rest, and they could all start getting ready -- for war." He remembered the shapes that swam and crept in the green water gardens, with whirling cilia and great, cold, glistening eyes. And he remembered the clean, empty fish bowl in the window downstairs. "Don't let them. Dad," said Harry convulsively. "You've got to kill them all. The ones here and the ones in the pond. You've got to kill them good -- because they don't mind being killed, and they lay lots of eggs, and their eggs can stand almost anything, even drying up. And the eggs remember what the old ones knew." "Don't worry," said Henry Chatham quickly. He grasped his son's hand, a hot limp hand that had slipped from under the coverlet. "We'll stop them. We'll drain the pond." "That's swell," whispered the boy, his energy fading again. "I ought to have told you before, Dad -- but first I was afraid you'd laugh, and then -- I was just... afraid..." His voice drifted away. And his father, looking down at the flushed face, saw that he seemed asleep. Well, that was better than the sick delirium -- saying such strange, wild things -- Downstairs the doctor was saying harshly, "All right. All right. But let's have a look at the patient." Henry Chatham came quietly downstairs; he greeted the doctor briefly, and did not follow him to Harry's bedroom. When he was left alone in the room, he went to the window and stood looking down at the microscope. He could not rid his head of strangeness: A window between two worlds, our world and that of the infinitely small, a window that looks both ways. After a time, he went through the kitchen and let himself out the back door, into the noonday sunlight. He followed the garden path, between the weed-grown beds of vegetables, until he came to the edge of the little pond. It lay there quiet in the sunlight, green-scummed and walled with stiff rank grass, a lone dragonfly swooping and wheeling above it. The image of all the stagnant waters, the fertile breedingplaces of strange life, with which it was joined in the end by the tortuous hidden channels, the oozing pores of the Earth. And it seemed to him then that he glimpsed something, a hitherto unseen miasma, rising above the pool and darkening the sunlight ever so little. A dream, a shadow -- the shadow of the alien dream of things hidden in smallness, the dark dream of the rotifers. The dragonfly, having seized a bright-winged fly that was sporting over the pond, descended heavily through the sunlit air and came to rest on a broad lily pad. Henry Chatham was suddenly afraid. He turned and walked slowly, wearily, up the path toward the house. Personalities in Science he was a man of diversified talents The Persecuted almost equal to those of the great Leonardo da Vinci. His family had a starring role whenever the overtaken his parents; and like unstory of the discovery of the law of told thousands of such parents they gravity is told; yet there is another wanted their son to have a good, object which deserves a place in the solid education as a doctor in order annals of history that is equal to to insure his future. The one big that now famous apple. There's a worry that they had was that this splendid bronze lamp which hangs son of theirs, who showed such today, as it did in the #th century, great mechanical aptitude at an from the roof of the cathedral in early a g e  would become interested Pisa. The slightest motion will make in mathematics and so be drawn this lamp sway. This object was to away from the security of the career Galileo what the apple was to Newthey had chosen for him. The fear ton. Putting the index finger of one was obviously a well-founded one. hand on the wrist of the other and, Besides his skill in mechanics, using this natural clock, Galileo Galileo was far above average in found that always, whether the such arts as sculpture and music, lamp was describing large arcs or He painted with such skill and small ones, each swing or vibration imagination that he defied his partook exactly the same time as any ents, as so many of us do, and chose other. This seemingly simple discovan artist's career for himself. When ery was the cornerstone of the scihe entered the University of Padua ence of motion. It was the humble to begin his studies, he realized that beginning which served as the inin order to be a really good artist he spiration for such men as John would have to study geometry. Now Keppler, who gave us the laws of a whole new field was opened beplanetary motion, and for Newton's fore him. laws of gravity and motion. He was able to solve the most difSomehow, in the minds of most ficult problems with ease, and he down through the centuries vaguetions of others which had stood as examples of greatness for hundreds of years. Naturally there was no more talk about being either a doctor or an artist; he had found the mistress who was to hold him until the end of his days. Galileo found his work bound by laws and systems which had stood as irrefutable evidences of truth for almost two thousand years. When he rebelled against accepting these laws as gospel, he proved his contentions with experiments and facts so salient that he could scarcely be doubted. He climbed to the top of the leaning tower of Pisa to refute Aristotle. He invented a telescope to refute Ptolemy. A ristotle had taught that when two bodies, of the same substance but differing weights, were dropped from an equal height, the heavier body would reach the earth first. Believe it or not, no one had questioned this statement for I ,# years ! When Galileo had satisfied himself that the theory was all wrong he set out to prove his point. He used the now famous Leaning Tower as a proving ground. He dropped two shots of different weights from the top of the tower, and when they reached the ground at the same time he felt that he had definitely been vindicated. But all this step toward the real truth earned him was enmity. From all over the then civilized w'orld professors and students rose in a body against him. Aristotle had said that the objects would not reach the earth at the same time -- it said so right in his books. Progress such as this w'as too fast for the times and Galileo w'as hounded from the scene of his victory and forced to seek refuge in Florence. Now his lot was miserable. He had his Mother, a brother, and tw'o sisters depending on him for support; and for a radical such as he was there wasn't much of anything like money coming his way. He tutored pupils to help stretch his meager earnings, and as he taught them he continued to learn himself. He had never disputed Ptolemy's laws -- those that stated that the vaults of heaven revolved about the Earth -- because he'd believed it himself. But now he began to believe that Copernicus had been right. Although he knew that to teach these theories was dangerous heresy, he began to teach that the Earth revolved about the sun, as did all the other known planets of the time. To prove his theory he invented a far better telescope than had ever before been made. With this new telescope he saw for the first time that the moon was not round and flat and smooth as both Aristotle and Ptolemy had said; but that it had mountains and hollow's like the Earth. He was the first to see the rings of Saturn, and found that there were lesser planets revolving around Jupiter just as other planets revolve around the sun. He proposed the theory of an unlimited universe, too, and one noble critic tried to crush him by saying : "There are only seven openings in the head -- two ears, two eyes, tw'o nostrils, and one mouth, there are only seven metals, and only seven days of the week, therefore there can be only seven planets." When Galileo made the unbelievers look through the telescope, and the scoffers saw exactly what he had told them they would see in the heavens, they cried, "Oh, well, they aren't visible to the naked eye, and so they cannot influence the Earth; and being useless, they do not exist." When our stargazer went on to announce that not only did the Earth revolve around the sun, but that the sun also revolved; the Church stepped in. An investigating commission was established to study the teachings of Copernicus. They called in Galileo and warned him that this was pure heresy which he was teaching; they ordered him to return to the teaching of Ptolemy's nine-hundred year old theory that the vaults of heaven revolved around the Earth. If he refused he was warned that he would have to take the consequences ; which in those days consisted of burning at the stake, or being crushed to death in an iron maiden. these consequences for the next # years, which he spent in study and in strengthening his theories even more. In # he could no longer contain himself under this thought control and wrote a book defending Copernicus. The inquisition pounced, and for his disobedience he was made to wear sackcloth and to kneel in ashes and required to swear that he would never say or believe again that the Earth revolved around the sun. He was told that should be refuse to swear this oath he would be condemned to torture and burning. The inquisition won, fear of torture drove Galileo to vow that he would do that which they required of him. He was carted off to prison, and though later released he spent the rest of his days with spies watching him to keep him on the path that the Church had said he must follow. He died at #, blind so that he could no longer see the wonders of the skies, and thoroughly crushed. But not before he had given the world a heritage of knowledge that man after man used as a foundation for the progress of the natural sciences. Galileo was so far ahead of his time that he had put forth the theory that there were no elements in the universe that differed from those on the Earth. The final establishment of this proof was made by Dr. Ira Bowen as recently as #! -- ew Space in its far dark reaches can be fickle with a man; it can shatter his dreams, fill him with fear and hate. It can also cure a man -- if he is strong enough. By Arthur G. Stangland Illustrated by Ed Valigursky of space. Twirling slowly in awesome majesty, the meteor scintillated like a massive black diamond. And with its onrush came a devastating sense of doom. He looked everywhere. To the front, to the side, and below -- there was no escape. Transfixed, he stared at the great rock flashing in the fire, of myriad suns as it -- Bill Staker, passenger rocket captain for Interplanetary Lines, came fully awake in his New York hotel room. For a minute, he lay unmoving on his bed, savoring the delicious sensation of weight. No queazy stirring in the pit of his belly for lack of gravity, no forced squinting because of muscular reorientation. With a muttered curse he unwound himself from his covers and sat up. For a moment he rested his head in his hands, thinking, only a nightmare, thank God, only a nightmare. He lifted his head, and found cold sweat on his hands. Then sighing in relief he swung his feet over the edge of his bed. A glance at the clock showed #:# p.m. Monday, June #th, #. Heavily, he clumped across the room in the peculiar flat-footed gait of a spaceman accustomed to magnetic contact shoes. Cigarette in hand he sank into a heavy chair, touched a button on the arm, then sat back to watch the telescreen. It was a rehash of the day's news. In nasal tones a senator was accusing the Republicrats of raising taxes. Then followed scenes from a spectacular fire. Suddenly, Bill's drooping eyelids popped open. A commentator was saying, "... the two rockets of the Staker The small meteor ripped through the Space Bird's crew compartment, blinding the radar scope and severing communication with Earth. Space Mining Company, ready for a scouting trip to the asteroid Beta Quadrant." A close-up of Tom Staker followed. Tall, rangy, with blond hair like straw in the wind. Bill laid his cigarette in a tray and with critical interest leaned forward to look at his brother. "We figure to find uranium," Tom was saying, with a glance toward the vertical rockets, "all through the Beta Quadrant. Our departure is waiting on the return of my brother, Bill, from his Marsto-Earth run." A reporter asked Tom, "Private enterprise is unique in these days of virtual monopolies. What's the story behind it?" "Well, our great-grandfather, George Staker, believed passionately in private enterprise," Tom began. "Somewhere around # or # he established a trust fund for his third generation descendants to finance any project they think worthwhile. And he got an ironclad guarantee from the government that the trust fund for private enterprise would be honored in the future. You see, my ancestor was quite a romanticist. In one of his books entitled 'The Philosophy of Science' he says 'People of this dawning Atomic Age little realize they are living in a vast dream. A dream that is slowly taking objective shape. A tool here, a part there, a plan on some drafting table. Men of ideas are pointing the way, structuring the inner dream world of a generation. Even today's science fiction literature contains important ideas for the dreams-become-reality of tomorrow.' " Tom finished up. "With our Project Venture, Bill and I are going to bring a dream into reality -- making a little on the side, of course!" The commentator ended his interview with: "And so, we await with great interest the carrying out of George Staker's dream, a man whose Twentieth Century ideas of private enterprise have blown a breath of fresh air into an age of dull dreams and little imagination." Bill Staker pressed the control button, darkening the screen. "Dream boy. Tom, you damned fool." He got up and scuffed into the bathroom to stare into the mirror. Twenty-five years old, and already lines were grooving both sides of his nostrils. Tousled black hair like brush hanging over a high bank, and ridged creases in his forehead. Little lumps of flesh bulging over the corners of his mouth from constant tension. The tension of outwitting space on each trip 'tween the planets. But worst of all was the look in his gray eyes. The look that never went away anymore. The look of a man who has spent too much time staring into the enigma of the Universe and -- thinking. "I'm scared -- scared as hell!" he blurted at his reflection. "And if I don't get hold of myself, I'm through -- washed up!" Space was no place for a man with imagination -- too much imagination. You stared into the empty blackness here, you stared into the inky blackness there, behind you the Earth a tiny pinpoint, the Earth that meant rock solid footing, the caress of wind and land in all directions. But out there in the aching void you raced for Mars like a mouse scuttling across a lighted floor. Raced because of what you couldn't see, couldn't fathom. Yet, you knew It was out there, staring back inscrutably. He rubbed the flat of his hand across his right cheek, sighing from emotional weariness. Then he scuffed back into the room. On the way he collected a bottle of bourbon, mixer and glass, and dropped into the big chair. As he worked on the bottle, all the anxiety and apprehension in him faded. Once he stared at the bottom of his empty glass. Funny how a guy could panic all of a sudden. He remembered it clearly now. Riding into town yesterday from the rocket port, he started brooding over details of Project Venture. Suddenly, an overwhelming black tide of fear worse than he had ever experienced confronted him. Like a man on the verge of insanity he licked his dry lips, staring about him and feeling as if something strange and terrible were taking possession of his mind. And in the middle of his spell a cloud blacker than space itself started reaching for him. That was when he yelled to the startled bus driver to let him out at this hotel. Maybe he could get hold of himself here. Now, his arms sprawled over the sides of the heavy chair, he drifted ofl into a snoring stupor. I N Till',, morning he awoke to a splitting headache. Somehow it helped to hold his head between both hands and swear at it in a running mutter. Finally he roused himself to go to the bathroom for a cold shower. Afterward, donning his powder blue Captain's uniform, he went down to breakfast. He dawdled over crisp bacon and eggs, glanced at morning editions, and all the while the ashes of last night's emotional holocaust drifted through him. Drifted in fitful vagrant thoughts. He should have said no that first day a year ago. The big law firm made a great to do over the old document from his ancestor. Unique, they said. The chance of a lifetime. And by the end of the first meeting Tom was all fired up. Mining atomic power metals in the asteroid belt would bring the biggest returns, he said. They would be the only ones allowed to compete with the Asteroid Mining Corporation monopoly. And now Tom was building up public excitement in the venture, as if it were a circus. The damned fool. Why had he let his brother talk him into -- Suddenly, his line of thought snapped, and he was acutely aware of staring eyes. He looked to his left, then felt a warm flush technicolor his cheeks. "Christy!" Her blond curls making a soft halo around her jauntily raked hat, the space hostess from his ship gave him a warm smile. She was adequately stacked, Bill reflected, but there was levelheaded firmness and resolution in her too. That was why she was hard to handle. "Good morning, Bill." He didn't like the accusing gleam in her eye but he was glad to see her. "Sit down, Christy. Have some coffee." He held her hands a moment, then eased her into the opposite chair. He tried disarming her with a show of great enthusiasm. But the way she settled herself into the seat, all the while regarding him with those clear penetrating blue eyes, told him she was going on no snipe hunt. "When you kissed me goodby at the port yesterday, Bill, you said you were going directly to the field to be with Tom." It wasn't a statement -- it was an accusation. With an elaborate show of casualness he shrugged his shoulders. "Well, I was fagged out from this last trip. Decided I'd do better getting a full night's rest by myself at a hotel." The waiter brought her coffee, and she left it to cool. She folded her long tapering fingers on the table, and a delicate lift to her fine brows gave her an expression of sympathetic concern. Her smile was regretfuL "Rocket men don't drink. Bill. You know it too. Bad for muscular coordination." He said in some surprise, "You mean it's that loud?" "Uh-huh." Christy leaned forward. "What is it, Bill? You haven't been yourself for weeks. You looked haggard yesterday and when you left the ship you were almost running, as if trying to escape from something. And now this strange avoidance of Tom. He got hold of me this morning early, wanting to know where you were. And I guess it's pretty important that he sees you, Bill. Seems there's been trouble at the field." It was as if someone had prodded him in an agonizingly sore place and he reacted instinctively. He let his knife clatter on his plate, aware that he was dramatizing himself. "When I'm ready for a woman's sticking her nose into my affairs. I'll send her a special invitation!" Christy's delicate nostrils flared, and her bosom rose and fell rapidly. Then she seemed to get hold of herself. "I'm sorry if you got that impression, Bill. I was only trying to help you both." i lierishing his irritation, Bill went on, "Seems to me you're bending over backward helping Tom. playing messenger, private eye -- " Christy broke in with a catch in her throat, "Oh, Bill, please! Let's not quarrel as soon as we get back." Bill shoved his dishes aside, the tone of her voice reaching into him to dampen down the fires of anger. Then he managed a slow faint grin. "Okay, Christy." He reached for the check, saying, "Well, if you can stand my company, would you like to come along out to the field?" With her eyes glistening, she answered, "I'd love to." field of the Staker Space Mining Company was an hour's drive north of the city. Three miles from the field they made out the two gleaming snouts of the rockets pointing skyward. Then as they approached the edge of the field, Bill turned off toward a two story frame structure that served as office and warehouse, Bill said, "Might as well check to see if Tom is in the office first." At the door Bill poked his head in and shouted up the stairwell, "Hi -- Tom?" A chair scraped, and footsteps sounded across the upstairs floor. "Yeah -- that you. Bill? C'mon up!" They found Tom at a desk before a wide window view of the field. On the office walls hung big graphs of fuel consumption curves, trajectory plots from Earth to the asteroid belt, ballistics computations, oxygen consumption curves per unit metabolism per man. ' Christy looking at the rockets, said, "Gee, Tom, they look beautiful. Like monsters straining their tethers." Tom looked up at the girl's profile, and to Bill who was watching, he bore the look of a man savoring what he saw. "Yes, they are. That first one's mine, the Space Bird. The other is Bill's, the Space Dragon Bill cast a professional eye over the charts and graphs on the wall, while far down in his subconscious a sharp twinge of jealousy fulminated, tangling with his fears of space in a hybrid monstrosity. Then like lava in a plugged volcano his obsession found a new outlet. The fear of space now came up disguised as hatred for Tom. In an unusually calm voice Bill said, "Well, I see you have everything just about completed." "Yeah," Tom glanced up with a significant look. "Someone else was interested in those charts and graphs too the other day. Someone who didn't bother to use the door." "What d'you mean -- somebody break in?" Tom nodded. "Yep. Jimmied a window downstairs. But I don't think they got anything, because the door to the office was still locked when the watchman surprised them. They got away in the dark." Christy's eyes grew large and round. "Who do you suppose it was?" Hitching his long body erect, Tom said with a gesture of his right hand, "Well, there's only one outfit interested in our destination -- and that's Asteroid Mining." "Good heavens," Christy said in great surprise. "You don't mean a big corporation like that would stoop so low?" Tom smiled at her. "With a monopoly on power metals Asteroid has been gouging the world. People have become resigned to the situation. But if we can supply uranium ore cheaper there's going to be a clamor for private enterprise again. Under the present system private enterprise has been withering on the vine. This is our big chance and the public is pulling for us." Bill's hold on his temper slipped another notch. "Yeah, I saw that interview with the television news you had. Saw it last night." He folded his arms across his chest. "If that's your conception of winning support for our venture then you better take up circus advertising." For a moment Tom looked like a man who's taken a bucket of ice water in the face. Then his feet hit the floor. "Say, now, wait a minute, Bill!" he said, half in anger. "Who d'you think's been shouldering the big share of Project Venture -- while you've hung on to your job and a pretty salary?" "Didn't we agree you'd spend full time on the Project while I acted as consultant between trips?" Bill shot back. "Yeah, I quit a fair job as first officer on a freighter to handle it." "And you are guaranteed fair wages and a fat slice of any profits we make," Bill snapped. "The thing I didn't like in that interview of yours was that starry-eyed eyewash about our ancestor being a man of vision, a philosopher and a dreamer. That's a helluva tag to put on us -- 'The Dream Boys'! Good God!" Tom stood up, facing his brother in icy silence. Finally he said, "Is that all you've got to offer -- a lotta carping criticism?" The planes of Bill's cheeks flattened under the downward pull at his mouth corners. The black ugly tide was running in him now and he could not stop its sweep. His fear of space, the frantic will to escape from it again, all the irritation and anger were deep currents and he was a mere piece of flotsam tossing on the advancing wave of the black tide. He said, "No, damn you. I've got something else in my craw too. ft's Christy. I've seen the way you look at her, and I know that whenever my back is turned you're doing your damnedest to break us up!" Tom's face turned gray and suddenly his eyes were wide open. Knots stood out on the points of his jaws. In a strange half choked voice he said, "That's a blasted lie -- and you know it. It's an excuse to cover up for your own peculiar behavior lately. I think -- " Christy broke in with. "Bill -- Tom, for heaven's sake stop it!" Her beseeching eyes were glancing sharply from one to the other in growing panic. Bill stood lightly on his feet, his fingers curling and uncurling into balled fists. Tom went on, a bleak look in his eyes. "I think you've been in a soft berth too long. The monopoly you work for has softened you, taken out the guts a man needs to stand on his own feet -- " Bill suddenly stiffened. His right shot out in a hard, sharp blow' that crashed against Tom's chin. Tom grunted, a surprised look in his eyes, and sagged to the floor. For a moment Bill stood over him, nostrils flaring, his whole body tense and waiting. But Tom was too groggy to get up. "Oh, Bill, how could you!" Christy cried out, dropping to her knees beside Tom. Bill strode with measured step to the door. There he turned, and looking back with a sneer, said. "Sweet dreams, Dream Boy!" I N A luxurious office of Asteroid Mining Corporation on the twenty-third floor of a Manhattan skyscraper a furious official of the corporation faced an uncomfortable underling. "I've heard of some pretty crude tricks in my time, Heilman, but breaking into the Staker Company's office like a common house thief takes the tin medal for low grade brains!" the official ranted, pounding his desk. "I suppose you thought that was an excellent way to advance yourself in the corporaIt!-, tif'ii ell? Finesse, Heilman, finesse. Tiit's what it takes in matters like this. Asteroid Mining, before it got the monopoly, stopped competition, but not by common housebreak  # J ln g "But -- but I thought," Heilman explained lamely, "that we could get a copy of their trajectory and then deal with them after they got out to the quadrant. You know, fire a 'meteor' at them, blanket them with radio jamming, ruin their radar sighting -- " The official snorted and leaned disgustedly back in his leather chair. "No, no you big dumb ox! You're retired from the team, benched. Now you can sit on the sidelines and watch how the first string fix Staker and Company." When Bill asked for his key, the clerk handed him the key and a faintly lavender tinted envelope. Mystified by the feminine handwriting, Bill sat in a lobby chair, and tore open the jasmine scented envelope. The note was brief. It said, "Dear Captain Staker: Please call on me at your earliest convenience, Apt. #B. It is a matter of utmost importance to both of us. Margo." Ever since leaving Tom's office, Bill's mind had been spinning about a center of hatred and ugly rumination. But now the stimulus of the jasmine fragrance struck a spark of adventure on the edge of his churning mind. The tangential path led off into inviting mysterious shadows and he was going to follow. The elevator stopped at the apartment floor of the hotel's north Tower. In the softly lighted corridor his feet fell soundlessly on the deep pile rug. He turned a corner, then walked up a short flight of steps to the door of Apt. #B. In response to his knock the door was opened by a vision in white satin. She was startlingly beautiful. Dark heavy lashes, creamy skin, white even teeth in a flashing smile, a lithe body poised with the ease of a jungle cat. She was fulsome and high breasted, and as she followed Bill's quick appraising glance, she seemed to smile knowingly that all he saw was displayed to best advantage. Hat in hand Bill said, "I'm -- I'm Captain Staker." With a throaty laugh that could have been carefully timed, she said, "And I'm Margo. Come right in Captain." Bill walked onto a white rug, and unobtrusively took in the rich furniture Twenty First Century Modern, the warm brown of the logarithm ruled walls, paintings in the style of Van Gogh, sharply angled table lamps, the gold drapes at the windows. "It was kind of you to come so promptly," Margo continued, settling into a chair. Bill brought his glance back to her. "Well, frankly, I was curious to know what a perfect stranger could have in common with me." She laughed indulgently. "Nasty of me, wasn't it? -- taking advantage of a human weakness." She gestured at Scotch and bourbon on the coffee table. "I'll let you do us the honors, Captain. Bourbon for me." Presently, glass in hand and a spreading warmth in him, Bill fixed the girl with a quizzical look. "Tell me, Margo, just what is this matter of utmost importance to both of us?" She put her glass on the table, then sat back and Bill felt the full impact of her dark lustrous eyes. "It's a business matter. Captain. You've been recommended a? a man of high purpose and dependability. As the heir to my father's controlling interest in Intercontinental Lines I am badly in need of a man with your experience to handle traffic details." Bill lifted a brow. "Intercontinental Lines? Never heard of it. Exclusively airline traffic on Earth"? "It's a new company formed under monopoly regulations. Of course, I realize you're a spaceman, but staying on Earth would have its compensations. You can name your own salary." Bill leaned forward and mixed another drink. This was something unexpected and pretty tempting too. No more fighting his fear of space. He downed the drink in a few gulps, then stood up. "Well, I -- I'd like to think things over," he said with hesitation, walking slowly to the window. Margo followed, saying, "I don't mean to rush you, Bill -- yet the situation needs your experienced hand." "I know, but my brother and I are all set to make a scouting trip to Beta Quadrant." Margo leaned against the window drapes, smiling with frank admiration. "I know you are. How in the world you can take off from Earth and hit a target far out in space is beyond me. Is it something like firing artillery?" The warm glow already suffusing Bill's senses took on added lustre when he looked into her questioning eyes. Expansively, he began drawing diagrams, and explaining the elements of space navigation. "Now here's the trajectory my brother and I are planning to use," he went on, drawing a complex curve with loading figures and fuel consumption and point of contact with the Beta Quadrant. When he paused once, Margo touched the gold sunburst emblem on his arm. "That's fascinating, Bill, but making a trip like yours is all a gamble. I'm not offering you a gamble. I'm offering you a sure thing." "Yes, I realize that." Bill got to his feet. "But just the same I want to think your proposition over, Margo." She leaned toward him putting her hands on his lapels. "Bill, don't risk your neck out there in space. I need you desperately in the company." Suddenly, Bill was electrically aware of cool, smooth arms sliding up and around his neck and her soft red mouth within fragrance distance. And he was exquisitely aware of the full soft length of her pressing against him. The scent of jasmine reached him with bewitching stealth. That was when he closed the gap to her mouth in a sudden rush. Bill came out of a whirling state of pure feeling to hear the visiphone buzzing insistently. "The phone," he mumbled. Margo opened her eyes dreamily, then comprehended. She walked over to the phone, picked up the receiver. After a moment she turned around looking at him questioningly. "It's for you. Bill." He took the phone and said, "Captain Staker speaking." The desk clerk said, "A gentleman to see you, sir. Shall I send him to Apt. #B?" "No" Bill answered. "I'll be down to my room in a few moments and see him there." He turned to Margo. "I guess business comes before idyll, Margo. I've got to go." Her lustrous dark eyes searched his face intently. "How long must I wait for an answer. Bill?" "Can you wait until Thursday -- three days?" Time enough to thresh things out with Tom. "I guess I can," Margo said, touching him with an inviting glance, "but do I have to wait that long before I see you again?" Bill grinned and shook his head in wonder. "My lord, what persistence! I got an idea any visiting would not be entirely social. Somewhere along the line business would rear its shaggy head. Okay, how about dinner at the Wedgewood Room tomorrow night?" "Wonderful!" Later at his own floor to his surprise he found Tom pacing the. corridor. In a strained voice he said, "The clerk said a gentleman -- " Tom came back in a conciliatory tone, "And I don't fit the description, eh? Well, anyway. Bill, we got things to talk over. How about it?" Bill shrugged noncommittally, unlocked his door and the two entered. Perched on the arm of a chair. Bill lighted a cigarette and pulled deeply of it. "Well, what is it?" He glanced coolly at his brother sitting with his left leg dangling over the arm of his chair. Tom cleared his throat and said, "I -- er, came to see how we're stacking up. Bill. After all we got a big show on our hands and the whole world is waiting for the curtain to go up. But we can't be squabbling between ourselves when we go on stage. Let's settle matters now and get on with our job -- after all we both got a lot at stake in the company." Bill studied the end of his cigarette a long moment. "I guess you might as well count me out, Tom. I'm quitting the show." Furrows appeared above Tom's brows. "Quitting! And after all you've put into the venture? Bill, have you gone nuts?" He stopped a moment. Then he said, "Oh, I guess I see the light. Christy eh? Well, Bill, honest -- and I really mean this -- you can have all the profits of the trip if I'm guilty of trying to take Christy away from you. You've got the wrong slant on things." Bill shrugged, saying, "It's not that -- and I still am not convinced -- it's just that I'm considering another proposition." Tom got to his feet in agitation, looking down at Bill incredulously. "My God, Bill, you sure have changed! What about all those bull sessions we had reading and rereading the George Staker philosophy of free enterprise? The world needs an object lesson to show how far it has strayed from those first wonderful days of the Atomic Age. We are heirs. Bill by special franchise, Old George saw the shape of things to come pretty clearly, and it's up to us to carry out his vision of things as they should be." Bill ground out his cigarette in a tray. His underlip crowded out stubbornly. 'T'm not going." For a moment Tom stared hard at Bill, and a heavy singing silence lay between them. Then Tom strode to the door and opened it. "All right, Bill -- you and I are through!" The door slammed. For awhile Bill sat looking at it, wondering why the slammed door reminded him of looking at his reflection in the bathroom mirror and telling himself "I'm scared -- scared as hell. And if I don't get hold of myself. I'm through -- washed up!" busily dressing, the ultrafax popped out the breakfast edition. "Space Bird takes off for Beta Quadrant. Tom Staker gambles all." Bill stared at the pictures of the rocket climbing savagely at the head of a column of fire. The crazy, stubborn fool. Going it alone-, risking his neck and everybody else's aboard. Well, let him go out there and break his blasted neck on the Asteroid Belt. For the next three days Bill saw much of Margo. She was the most exciting thing he had ever discovered, and he indulged her laughingly when she took to speaking of his position in Intercontinental Lines as an accomplished fact. On the third day he took Margo to lunch, a Margo with shining eyes, for this was Bill's day of decision. She had done her work well. He ordered for them, and added, "Also a bottle of champagne." The waiter brought the champagne first. There was no doubt on Margo's features what this was about, even though it had always been "if", "maybe" "possibly" in Bill's discussions with her about the new job. In the midst of picking up his glass and proposing a toast, "Here's to my new -- " Bill stopped. The ultrafax had popped out a sheet. Carefully putting the glass down, he said, "That's a special bulletin." Picking it up he read aloud, "Staker Rocket in serious trouble. Home field reports damage by small meteor. Crew on emergency air bottles. Mysterious emanations blind radar scope and disrupt communication with Earth." Tom -- and the others, out there fighting for their lives against suffocation and intense cold. Their quarrel seemed like the antics of teenagers now. He had to get out to the field, see if he c ould help. "What are you going to do?" Margo was watching him intently, the knuckles of her small hands white. "I'm going to the field." "But -- but what about that toast you were making to your new -- job, that's what you were going to say, wasn't it?" Her eyes were intense spots of jet. "I guess that'll have to wait, Margo," he told her. "I can't stand by when Tom needs help." Margo clutched his hands convulsively. "Bill, don't take a rocket up or you'll die in the same trap he's dying in!" The words rushed out as if through a trapdoor she could not control. Bill glanced at her with sharp, new interest. "How do you know it's a trap, and how do you know he's going to die?" Tears began to well up in her large eyes. "All I can tell you is don't go out there, Bill. I don't want to lose you -- now." Dawning realization filled Bill with horror. "Margo -- Margo, for God's sake, what kind of a game have you been playing with me!" Margo's shoulders sagged, and she began to sob out her story. "Bill, please, please believe me. I love you. That was not my part of the agreement with Asteroid Mining -- to fall in love with you. Yes, I was hired to separate you and your brother, break up your company." Before Bill could snarl an answer to that, a hotel service clerk came with a portable phone. "Call for you, sir." With his eyes fixed steadily on Margo, he spoke into the transmitter, "Captain Staker." Christy's strained and tearful voice came over the wire. "Bill, oh, Bill, we're getting terrible news here at the field. Tom's ship is losing oxygen!" "Yes, I know," he answered. "I just got the Ultra on it. I'll be right out, Christy." As he replaced the phone he looked at Margo with a grim, loathing expression. "A female trick as old as the universe and I had to fall for it. You and your innocent questions about our Quadrant trajectory! What a sucker I was!" He drew back his hand to slap her but decided against it. She was crying when he left. On the way to the field the familiar but forgotten black tide of fear rose up like a spectre once more to scatter his gathering ideas for helping Tom. Resigning himself to its power and pulling over to the roadside, he sat still, gripping the wheel. Yes, he told himself tensely, here I sit while Tom and the others drift in space needing help. The realization of their need slowly gave him a greater objective clarity than he had ever had before. He began to see himself now for what he was -- a cringing weakling stripped naked of all manliness at the first show of evil. Though he perhaps had been worse than the average, this was the trouble with his whole security minded generation. They never dreamed great dreams like George Staker and his era which wrested atomic power from the treasure house of nature. No, this generation carefully followed safe, charted paths in the world of ideas. It had given up its freedom to a world of government controlled monopolies. And Tom, taking up the torch left by their creatively imaginative ancestor, was trying to recapture a small facet of that golden age, Mid-Twentieth Century mind. as the black tide receded over the horizon of his inner world. He took a new firm grip on the wheel, and took off again at high speed. Christy was at the field office waiting outside. As he stepped out of the car, she threw her arms around him. "Oh, Bill, what can you do for Tom now?" He said gently, "I'll bring him back for you." She drew back her head to look at him incredulously, "You still think -- ! Oh, Bill, you foolish guy, you're the one I love, the one I've always loved." For a moment he searched her eyes and saw only a revelation of honest feeling. A surging gladness flooded through him, releasing an unconscious hard ball of tension inside. "Christy, what a knothead I've been!" He gathered her up to kiss her fervently. "So long, Christy. Old Staker was a piker at dreaming compared to what I'm dreaming for you and me!" The field men had the rocket fueled up and provisioned to go. "This'll be no picnic, but there's a prize out there if we want it bad enough. You'll all have a share in it, instead of handing it all over to the government. Are you with Tom and me?" "Sure, Bill. Let's go!" "Yeah, let's open ! er wide up!" They all clambered up the ship's access ladder in high spirits. In a moment a warning red signal rocket shot into the sky and burst, warning all local aircraft. Another five minutes and the rocket leapt off the Earth with a long, shattering roar. Bill kept the fissioning metals pouring through the atomic explosive after-chambers until the men screamed at the acceleration. Finally he eased it off to free flight and the Space Dragon followed the trajectory of the Space Bird. All the way he hovered over the radar scope. Then after long hours of fatiguing watching he crawled into his bunk. Later he woke up to Radarman Jones' voice in his ear. "Captain -- wake up. We've picked up a ship on the scope!" Bill piled out and forced his floating feet to magnetic contact with the steel deck. He followed Jones down the short corridor to the communications cabin. At the radar scope Bill studied the ship, then gave orders decelerating the Space Dragon. "There's another ship!" Jones exclaimed, pointing at the edge of the scope. Bill peered at the new ship, studying its characteristics. Then he nodded his head. "It's the Space Bird all right. But that first one -- I got an idea it must be an Asteroid Mining ship.Margo must have transmitted the Space Bird trajectory to Asteroid Mining. I don't see how anybody would know where to find us in such immense distances as Beta Quadrant." Stepping over to the communications panel he called the Space Bird. No answer, and though he kept calling he could not raise the ship. Then he called Staker Field on Earth. "Caxton?" The field came back. "Staker Field. Go ahead." I # "Caxton, we've found the Space Bird but can't speak them, so I'm cutting you in on communications with an Asteroid Mining ship that's hanging around. Tape pictures and sound -- the whole works." "Okay." Flipping another switch. Bill called the strange ship on the allinterplanetary frequency. Suddenly after long minutes of silence the dark screen lighted up with the impassive features of a round faced, cold eyed man. "Yeah? This is the Pluton. What d'you want -- and who are you?" "This is the Space Dragon -- sister ship to the Space Bird there in your vicinity. What's the matter with our ship?" The man's eyes darkened and his jaws tightened. "There's plenty wrong with it, Space Dragon. And the same thing's going to be wrong with your ship, too. A 'meteor' is going to hit your ship the same as hit the Space Bird. Asteroid Mining doesn't like competitors horning in their business!" Bill shot back grimly, "I'm glad to hear your views on competition. Mister. The whole world is interested in our Project Venture, and when they hear what you said there's going to be hell to pay. Because, you see, everything you say and how you look saying it is being recorded back at Staker Field on Earth!" The other man's impassive face suddenly turned into a ludicrous mask of a man burning his fingers on hot chestnuts. The two way hook-up abruptly ended. On the scope Bill and Jones watched the image of the Pluton begin to move across the scope and finally out of range in the opposite direction toward Asteroid Mining's Omega Quadrant. Hours later the Space Dragon made physical contact with Tom's ship. Bill was the first one through the communicating airlock. Tom, his face drawn and haggard, met him as he emerged in the ship. The rest of the crew were ly ing still to conserve air. "Hi, Bill. Boy, are we glad to see you. That 'meteor' they threw at us confined us on air bottles in the forward compartments." Bill shook his hand warmly. "We got enough air for all of us. After we patch tilings up here, let's start carving us a chunk of private enterprise." Tom's tired eyes lighted up. "Hm, say, you're so right! Our geigers have found enough floating ore in Beta Quadrant already to make a big nick in Asteroid's business. Bill gave him a mock salute, "Okay, skipper. You've earned the title of Head Dreamer, and I'll help make your dreams come true!" who enters T racy's Department Store is not always right, but as far as you are concerned, he is. By Waldo T. Boyd blinked three times. Trevor Anson arranged his tie at just the nattily precise angle, waved his hand before a hidden lighting-effect switch in the smooth marble pillar at the entrance to the display room, and faced the elevator. This would be a "green light" customer -- a firsttime prospect, and three blinks indicated a very difficult individual. Anson quickly practiced his most beguiling smile. "Welcome to Tracy's Roboid Department," he said, enthusiastically, as the elevator doors slid open. His practiced smile was just right. He quickly noted the man's conservative dress, the flaming red tie. Aggressive type, Anson decided. A shock of red hair that didn't want to lie down hinted that he was stubborn as well. "Heard you've got a sale on robots," Red-tie said, challengingly, as he stepped aside for his wife. The woman who stepped off the elevator smiled, showing a lovely dimple, and Anson beamed on her. The tiny flake ol a hat perched atop her auburn hair reminded Anson of the comb on a Rhode Island Red. "Not robots, sir," Anson corrected diplomatically. "The PlastiCast Roboid is not exactly a robot." "Well, anyhow, trot one out, and will never be satisfied until she's seen one of the things." He glared dramatically in the general direction of his w'ife, who pretended not to notice. Anson led them into the Gray Room. He mentally went over the applicable rule: Rule #; Always introduce the marked-down merchandise first. It may provide the customer with an incentive lor buying something better. "These are last year's models," he said, with just the right flavor of distaste in his voice. "Of course, you may expect a slight reduction... a small percentage... Red-tie was muttering. "Damned mechanical things, full of wheels and wires. What's to keep 'em from "But dear, they don't have wheels anymore," protested the woman, timidly. Her face was pretty, Anson decided, but it was obvious that the man would be the deciding factor in this sale. He made a mental note: Rule #: Pick the individual of a family group who seems to hold the decidbered a portion of a sales talk he had memorized a few days before, and took it up, almost chanting: "... our Roboids are grown, much as crystals are grown, in great vats in New Chicago. A Plasti-Cast Roboid is guaranteed..." "A fat chance we'd have of collecting the guarantee if we were chopped into mincemeat," Red-tie interrupted, shuddering slightly as the implication of his own words hit him. Anson felt a moment of panic as he failed to remember an applicable rule from the Salesman's Guide, but it formed in his mind at the last moment: Rule #: Never argue with a customer -- change the subject. "Why don't you come with me to the Green Room?" he asked. "The very latest models are on display." He walked slowly at first, then more quickly as the couple allowed themselves to be led. He slid his hand near a hidden switch in the archway, and floodlights came on just as they entered. The woman uttered a little squeal of delight at the sight of a very handsome figure dressed in a cutaway, standing in an attitude of service. "Oh!" she breathed dreamily. "He would make such a wonderful bulter." "Well, wind him up and let's see what he'll do," growled the man, his face florid in the colored light of the Green Room. "I'm so very sorry," Anson said, slightly flustered, remembering that this was always the crucial moment in a sale. "The Roboid cannot be activated for demonstration purposes." "What?" roared Red-tie, incredulously. "Do you mean to say you want me to buy the damned thing without knowing whether it ticks or not?" Anson tried desperately to remember the best rule for such an answer, but failed. He plunged desperately into his own explanation. "You see, our Roboids are matched to your family personality at the time of purchase, and activated then. We cannot erase a personality once it has been transferred to their sensitive minds." He saw the disbelieving smirk on the man's mouth and felt that the sale was indeed lost. But he plunged on, desperately. "They're very economical. They don't require any upkeep, like food. When they become tired they will sit or lie down near an electric outlet and plug in a power cord, and in a few minutes they are as rested and tireless as..." "Bosh!" Red-tie retorted. "I've still have time to try Bonn's new Helio-rotor. At least they'll give us a demonstration." Anson escorted them to the Magna-lift. He felt better as he recalled the last rule in the Guide, the one that seemed to cover the situation so well: Rule #: If they balk because of the no-demonstration rule, let them go. They will be back when they have seen one of their friends with a Plasti-Casi Roboid. "Good-bye, Sir; Madam," Anson said wearily, as the Magna-lift doors closed, "Come again soon." He breathed a sigh of relief as the elevator cage dropped them from sight. A salesman, who had been standing by, spoke to Anson. "People are such dears at times, aren't they?" he said. "How'ever, it's time for your rest period. I'll take over now." "Thank you so much," Anson replied tiredly. He walked to a tiny room at the far end of the great showroom and closed the door. He stretched wearily out on a low, folding cot, the only piece of furniture, and reached for a tiny black power cord hanging nearby. Deftly he plugged it into the socket under his armpit, and breathed deeply, relaxedly. "Yes," he chanted softly, drifting off to sleep," people are such dears sometimes." Of I, published bi-monthly at Buffalo, New York, for October #, #. The names and addresses of the publisher, editor, maim i  dltnr. and business managers are: Publisher, Quinn Publishing Company, Inc., #  Union Ave., Kingston, N. Y. ; Editor, James L. Quinn, # Clinton Avenue, Kingston, N. Y. ; Managing editor. None ; Business manager, None... #. The owner is: (if owned by a corporation, its name and mM must be stated and also immediately thereunder the names and addresses of stockln-M th owning or holding I percent or more of total amount of stock.) Quinn Publishing Company, Inc., # Clinton Avenue, Kingston, N. Y. ; .Tames L. Quinn, # Clinton Avenue, Kingston, New York. #. The known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders owning or holding I percent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are : None. #. The two paiagraphs next above, giving the names of owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain not only the list of stockholders mu security holders as they appear upon the books of the company but also, in cases where I lie stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the coin puny ns trustee nr in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is given; also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing affiant's full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the books of tin company ns trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner; and this affiant has no reason to believe that any. other person, association, or corporation has any interest direct or indirect in the said stock, bonds, or other securities (lion ns so stated by him. #. The average number of copies of each issue of this publication sold or distributed, through the mails or otherwise, to paid subscribers during the # # months preceding the date shown above was: (This information is required from daily, weekly, semiweekly, and triweekly newspapers only). James L. Quinn, Editor . Sworn to and subscribed before me this #th day of September, #. (seaIj) Evelyn Dorothy Hubbard (My commission expires March #) The Sea Between the Planets space, no one will be able to tell about the condition of weightlessness, the absence of gravity, the state of "free fall" that can be experienced. We know that antigravity devices seem improbable. Yet it is extremely desirable to know how a human being feels and behaves in free fall, in a state of null-gravity. Scientists have been beating their heads against a solid wall endeavoring to think up some way, no matter how inadequate, of simulating this situation. Parachute jumpers offer one possibility. In a sense, when they are falling freely, before their parachutes open, they are in the equivalent situation of a rocket man floating free in his space suit. Unfortunately they can't fall for a very long time without having to open their chutes. In addition, even during the moments of so-called free fall, they are too conscious of the highspeed air-stream flowing around them. Shock, wind, cold -- all such conditions -- lessen the sensation of true free fall. The idea of a freely falling elevator also simulates gravity-less-ness. But here too the duration of unhindered fall is slight. Even if an artificial elevator structure of great height were constructed, the period of being in free fall would be short, because in a short time the snubbers and shock absorbers would have to take hold and ease the freely falling elevator to rest. There is a strong possibility, however, that such a structure might be built in the not very distant future, for it would enable space surgeons and medical men interested in human reactions to space flight to get some accurate observed data on biological behavior under no gravity. In fact, this will probably be done soon, for medical men are clamoring for data which they just can't get in any other way. The free-floating of a rubbersuited swimmer whose bouyancy in water is just one, is a rough simulation, in a sense, of weightlessness and free fall, although here the presence of the water medium is highly deceptive. At least the tremendous freedom of motion with the consequent loss of sense of direction helps a lot in giving the feeling of free fall. The sea between the planets is of a far more tenuous stuff than water! The free-fall elevator mentioned above is about the one chance we on Earth will have of experiencing free fall. Constructed vertically along the side of a cliff or high mountain, say, only as high as ten thousand feet -- by no means an impossible engineering feat -- an elevator system would provide a considerable amount of information on how the human body reacts to weightlessness, at least for periods of a few minutes. The falling elevator, stream-lined and projectileshaped, could avoid acquiring the conventional terminal velocity for quite a while, and thus duplicate considerably the conditions within a space ship in free space without acceleration. As soon as the plans for actual manned rockets come a little closer to reality, we arc likely to see and hear a lot of organizations trumpeting for one of these space duplicators. The technicians and medical men will have a hard time trying to prevent people from sneaking a ride one way or another. Come to think of it, if an amusement park were to install such an elevator, it might do a hearty business! Skyrocket #-#... is the better word -- catapulted across the sky at the incredible speed of thirteen hundred miles an hour! This recently released news shows that we are finally beginning to produce sound original research in rocket engines instead of being content merely to copy and modify German rockets. The behavior and use of the new experimental craft compares with the plane-intercepting rockets the Germans were using in the last days of World War II. The Skyrocket is a small plane, with the barest traces of swept-back wings; it is powered solely by rockets and was launched from the belly of a B-# at thirty thousand feet. From this altitude it climbed almost vertically to eighty thousand feet and then zoomed in a series of maneuvers designed to test its strength. It came through with flying colors, and despite a flight-duration measured in minutes -- about four for this plane -- it showed great promise as the ultimate interceptor type. When the fuel was exhausted the pilot glided to a safe landing and reported on the behavior of the rocket. He reported that the rocket shot through the "sonic" barrier without any of the yawing, vibration or other faults which have characterized that operation with jets. His personal reactions to the flying qualities of the rocket were slight, since he was basically operating from instruments and, to all intents and purposes, flying blind. This single flight is not in itself extraordinarily spectacular, but it is indicative of what is in the cards. If such information has been released it is safe to assume that considerably more progressive work has already been done on other straight rocket craft. It is interesting to consider that all that holds rocketry back is the matter of fuel nothing else. In a way, it is as though we knew all about airplanes and their flight but didn't have powerful enough engines. That is exactly the position of rocketry. Chemical fuels, no matter how they are concocted, still haven't the "oomph" to take rockets where they are able to go. We won't see reafly startling advances in rocket flight until one of two things happens: either some government will decide to build a chemical steprocket to go to the Moon, and hang the expense, or some geniuses will tie atomic energy to rocket engines. Until then rockets are doomed to be chained by gravity to the relatively thin shell of Terran air. Greatly encouraging is the fact that the military are growing concerned with the uses to which rockets may be put. Maybe they can persuade Uncle Sam to finance Lunar flight! Transistor in Transition... "ramis in the framus" gadgets which, in the course of time, is going to change the lives of all of us -- and which, because of its unspectacular, technical nature, will rarely be appreciated by any but the technician. Yet every thinking person should be acquainted with it. It is the gadget which is inheriting the mantle of the Twentieth Century's most important invention, the vacuum tube. The gadget is called a "transistor" and was invented in the Bell Telephone Labs only a few years ago. Since then every laboratory on Earth has been working madly on it, and now it is ready to be applied on a wide scale. The transistor is nothing but a substitute for a vacuum tube -- "only it don't got no vacuum !" Physically the transistor is a sliver of germanium metal, sealed within a capsule scarcely as large as a sixth of a cigarette and with three or four tiny "cat's whisker" wires touching it. That's all there is to it. It has no filament or grid or plate like an ordinary radio tube. It requires no power input except a simple plate voltage. It gives off hardly any heat. It is insensible to shock and violence. It is small. It is not made of delicate glass. It is rugged. It is cheap. And its virtues could be recited ad infinitum. What does it do? It does everything ordinary radio tubes do! You take it from there, compiling, if you can, a small list of the things modern vacuum tubes do. You'll have a fabulous list! Electronics has burst on the world with miracles, but generally these have been dampened somewhat by the need for using tender tubes. The transistor overcomes this obstacle and wherever . a vacuum tube control can be substituted for human muscles or human mind, the new industrial transistor, a mere three years out of the development stage, can take over the job. If you think we live in an electronics age now, watch the next decade and note particularly that the vacuum tube will be limited to power applications. The transistor, simple to build, harder to understand in terms of its operation ( its theory involves "holes in space") is coming... Coming in the May issue: The author of that famous work, The Exploration of Space, brings to IF readers an exciting years ago. Don't miss -- (Continued from page #) mass and location has least effect on all solar systems outside its own." The young Lobian, obviously jubilant at having so far managed to be correct, studied his computations, adjusted several dials below the scanning screen and brought a single solar system into view. Twisting other dials, he brought the image nearer and nearer until only the sun could be seen on the small screen. Then he made a careful final adjustment, touched a switch, and one by one the planets of the solar system singly popped into view. With an apparatus resembling a four-dimensional slide rule. Junior made rapid calculations as each of the nine appeared. Then he laid aside the apparatus and watched the parade of planets begin to move by a second time. Halfway through he touched a button, stopping one planet on the screen. This he pointed at hopefully. It was the planet known on Earth as Mars. Plorace shook his head with a kind of triumphant sadness. "You see?" he telegraphed George. "He has the right solar system, but the wrong planet, though the one he indicated does have the least effect on all solar systems outside its own." George looked puzzled. "I don't quite follow that myself." "I specified provable planet. The one Junior picked is too small for a practical experiment with the equipment we have available." The teacher glanced at George. "It is only natural you would miss that point, for of course you don't know our school equipment. But only yesterday its limitations were explained to Junior. You see how forgetting to include all the data in his calculations causes your son to err?" George nodded reluctantly. His antennae blushing a fiery red, Junior again fiddled with dials and brought the planet we call Earth into view. "There!" he telegraphed. Horace radioed his approval, an affirmative grunt. George beamed his pride. A door in back of Marshall Igor Matoshek opened and his watching and listening audience saw the tall, soldierly figure of General Serge Marik appear on the screen. Silently the aide-de-camp banded a slip of paper to the most important man in all the world. The Marshall adjusted his spectacles, frowned at the note and a flush of anger mounted to his cheeks. He waved the general away. "Comrades," he announced. "I have just received the answer the President of the Tri-federation of North America has made to our reasonable offer of peaceful terms. I will not bore you with the full context, but it amounts to a categorical refusal." "You will wait for my signal, of course," Horace radioed Junior. "When your adjustments are complete, please transmit them to me clearly." "Yes Sir," Junior sent back. "Azimuth two-hundred seventeen mils, five-hundred and two micromils. Elevation minus eight mils, thirty-six micromils." "It is necessary to check students' data very carefully," Horace explained to George. "If by error we destroyed the entire solar system, it might throw us off our orbit sufficiently to cause mild weather changes. Conceivably it could even cause slight Lobequakes. The elimination of the single planet's mass will have only slight effect on its own solar system, however. Not enough to seriously incommode any life there may be on the other planets. And of course it will have no effect whatever on solar systems other than its own." "Comrades and citizens of the world," Marshall Igor Matoshek said, "you are about to witness an event beside which all other events of the past pale to insignificance." He raised one arm and spoke in a thunderous voice. "Fire!" "Fire," Horace transmitted absently, and as Junior touched the proper button, turned apologetically to George. "I am afraid you don't find this very interesting. After all, it's pretty elementary stuff." ( Continued from page #) resurrect #. But they'd gain nothing. There would still be an extra plate. You see? "So they destroyed the plate. He knew they would. And they also had to go back through the records, to Earth, through the security files there, through the birth records, everything. And they destroyed every trace, every shred of evidence that No. # ever existed." So he kept the memory alive and that kept #I alive while the other prisoners become automatons, hearing, feeling, sensing nothing except the bells. Remembering nothing, anticipating nothing. But #I could remember something magnificent, and so he could anticipate, and that was hope, and faith. He found that no one really believed him but he kept on telling it anyway, the story of the Plan. "Maybe this number didn't exist," someone would say. "If there's no record anywhere -- " #I would smile. "In my head, there's where the record is. # know. # remember." And so it was that #I was the only one who still remembered and who could still smile when sometime after that -- no one in the prison colony knew how long -- the Underground was victorious, and the Managerial System crumbled. I 'Padtmcut  Dear Mr. Quinn : I wish to take issue with the opinions expressed by "pwf" on pages # and # of your November issue. "You understand the law... or you... stop eating," pwf says. But he evidently does not understand the law. He proves this by a comparison of historical technological progress with the stock market. He must be aware that an analogy is good only if the points of resemblance are demonstrated so rigorously that some other form of argument would usually be less involved and require no additional reasoning. In other words, the chief use of an analogy is to impress the unthinking. Mr. pwf, by depending entirely on analogy without any demonstration, shows he realizes the weakness of his argument. The reasons for rises and falls in the stock market are fairly simple and obvious, and can be expressed as an almost entirely uncomplicated feedback equation. Can pwf do the same for the causes of technological progress? Until he can, where is his analogy. (The equation mentioned above shows the conditions of a collapse, but it is extremely difficult to determine by observation whether these conditions are present. Hence the early wolf-crying mentioned by pwf.) Rise and fall is not the pattern of every action known. Until pwf can show that technological progress has the characteristics of actions showing this pattern rather than of those showing other patterns, his argument must remain suspect. I have concentrated on technological progress because this seems to have been all taken in by pwf's very narrow view. Actually, I think the prospect of decline in other fields much more likely. We may well be heading for a period of superscientific moronism. You can see from this I am not being merely Pollyanna-ish. I think the prospects of decline excellent and frightening, and would appreciate seeing some real debate on this question, provided that it is conducted on a somewhat more concrete level than was done in Mr. pwf's undoubtedly well-written article. Some attention must be paid to facts, such as now existing trends in all fields, the cycles of past civilizations, and the level to which knowledge and dispersion thereof must reach before becoming no longer totally destructible; less to ghostly and unreliable analogies. -- Michael Wigodsky Houston, Texas We think pwf was writing of generalities and the over-all cycles of I # human progress and decline rather than attempting to make a specific analogy of humanity , reduced to a common denominator , and its foreshadoived doom. However, there can be interesting debate -- and we'd like to hear froth someone who wishes to take it up with Mr. Wi god sky. Dear Editor: The November issue of IF was excellent, in my opinion. I congratulate you on the pictures on the inside back and front covers. It looks so much better than when it was plain. When I pick up an IF mag I read it from cover to cover. I just finished the November issue and I find I like "The Image and the Likeness" best... Please remember to run lots of short stories... One complaint -- Why didn't the cover have anything to do with the rest of the book? You put out a good mag... It is the best science fiction magazine in the United States. Keep up the good work. -- Richard F. Allen Framingham, Mass, That's a mighty fine compliment. We thank you!... Now, about the covers on IF: beginning with the November issue, our policy is to vary our covers. Some will be symbolical (November issue) some will illustrate a story, some will suggest a theme -- whichever offers the strongest approach to originality and effectiveness. Dear Mr. Quinn : A letter in "The Postman Cometh" (November issue) literally drove me to compose my first "letter to the editor". This letter represents, in my opinion, the height of bigotry and intolerance! The writer is "chagrined" to find that fanzine reviews are requested. His "worst fears are realized". He is "nauseated" at letters using "slangy drivel". The presumptuousness of such readers is astonishing. They are, in effect, demanding that a mass circulation magazine be tailored to their personal specifications without regard to the interests of others. The fact that I enjoy fanzines is beside the point. I do not like your Science Briefs section, but I would not dream of suggesting that your other readers be deprived of the enjoyment and instruction they find therein. I have no sympathy for "nausea" caused by letters using "infantilisms" such as "terrif", "groovy", etc. Or even "egad", "gazooks", or "goshwowoboyoboyoboy" ! The average adolescent science fiction reader is, as a rule, considerably advanced intellectually beyond his age level. The fact that they express their enthusiasm and opinions in the patois of their contemporaries should not deprive them of the right to self-expression that you offer all buyers and readers of your magazine. Science fiction belongs to youth -- let them speak! -- P. H. Economou Miami, Florida miles from base, approximately # miles above surface of the Moon. Televised image reveals it to be hostile. Base Command switches to automatic pilot control and both missiles converge on target for crash dive. Pursuit is similar to principle of dog hunting rabbit, only instead of following a scent, missiles follow a metallic surface and image of the craft. Two missiles insure complete destruction. (Drawings by Ed Vatigursky.) Puzzles in Every Issue! America's greatest value in puzzle pleasure, # pages chock full of brand new puzzles of every variety and fascinating articles of interest to puzzle lovers everywhere! Just ask your local news dealer -- only #c at all stands. EiaSNB"Zl i U m t p #"  A fjt z' fy  l standpoint. Its eroded hills and ice caps would be the only relief in the monotonous horizon of barren wasteland. Perpetual dust storms, insufficient atmosphere, and blinding sun would inflict physical discomforts. Here, explorers study the terrain as their space ship makes aerial studies. The deep crevices that split the desert could be the "canals" that form geometric patterns in the astronomers telescope. On the horizon is one of the ice, or polar, caps. All Stories New and Complete Cover by Ken Fagg IF is published bi-monthly by Quinn Publishing Company, Inc. Volume #, No. #. Copyright # by Quinn Publishing Co., Inc. Office of publication, # Lord Street, Buffalo, New York. Entered as Second Class Matter at Post Office, Buffalo, New York. Subscription # for # issues in U.S. and Possessions; Canada # for # issues; elsewhere #. Allow four weeks for change of address. All stories appearing in this magazine are fiction; any similarity to actual persons is coincidental. Not responsible for unsolicited artwork or manuscripts. #c a copy. Printed in U.S. A. Next issue on sale May #th of faith in that old adage that says "it is difference of opinion that makes horse races". I think the coiner of that was a great American named Samuel Clemens, who was bom in Florida, Missouri, over a hundred years ago. He wrote a lot of kinda wonderful stuff about the Mississippi and other things under the pseudonym of Mark Twain. Remember it? Well, I guess I didn't take that "difference of opinion" quite literally enough. I shoulda known that when it says horse races it means horse races. Anyhow, IF ain't a horse-racing sheet -- so I've been wrong. About disagreeing, or difference of opinion, that is. Especially about the writers who write for IF. But I've seen the light... The light was in a letter I got recently from a gentleman up in Houlton, Maine, who seems to have read a science fiction magazine for the first time. He says he wouldn't have bothered reading it but for his "very persuasive brother, who, like others, is very fanatic about this kind of literature". Well, all that's okay. There's them what likes science fiction and them what don't. It's a free country and all that, you know. But here's the part that showed me the light. Quote: "It seems to me as though your writers must be slightly crazy. They all disagree about the future in particular." Now, can you imagine anybody putting out a magazine with writers who disagree? It's absurd. Writers should all think and write alike. Anybody knows that if one writer says the human race is going to have green hair, lavender skin, three arms and five legs in the year #, by golly they're all gonna say it. The manuscript that says it's going to happen in # or # gets sent back. And I think I'd better get busy and write all our authors to the effect that anybody who fools around with ideas about future experiments in nuclear fission or gravity or brassieres without coming to an agreement with the others appearing in that issue is due for a blackball. at last. Now about our stories being "too fantastic to consider". I'll also have to correct that right away. Practically everybody knows that great writers of past centuries never dreamed up such fantastic things as steam power, air travel, underwater craft, radio, gravity, biotics, atomic power, astronomy. etc., etc. Anybody who ever read a history book knows that the immortals of science -- da Vinci, Faraday, Edison, Galileo, Newton, to name a few -- always got a unanimous vote of confidence from their readers and critics. Nobody considered their dreams fantastic. They never cooked up a broth that was centuries ahead of their times. For example, suppose somebody had put a television set down in front of George Washington, with Dagmar doing her stuff. Would he have cried fantastic! Not about the television set, he wouldn't. Television, which practically everybody has got a set of these days, wasn't fantastic in those days. This thing of writers letting their imaginations run off is bad stuff. They ought to stick to solid facts, something you can put your feet in. Like a pair of old galoshes or something. Come to think of it, somebody had to dream those up -- or did they? Remind me to ask a boot manufacturer sometime just how we got galoshes. However, an idea just barged into that thing I hang my hat on: Why not get out a reprint of the Podunk telephone directory? Then you can really check your facts. All you need is a pocketful of nickels and dimes. Whether the thought in the final paragraph applies to all science fiction magazines or not, I don't know, but here's how it goes: "A magazine like yours is hardly sensible reading for anyone." And he signs off with "truthfully", so I guess he means it. Now that dum right hurts. But I'm gonna take it to heart and request an IQ from everybody around the office. So I took this letter seriously and I hope our readers do, too. And when this gentleman from Maine borrows the next issue of IF, he'll be happy to see that all the writers therein have certificates stating that they have never been within # miles of a laughing academy, and what's more they'll all agree in their plots and ideas concerning the future. They're going to get their slide rules out and everyone is going to come up with the identical answer. run into a friend of mine last night who was one of "hell's angels" way back in # and #. His name is Henry Jones and he was one of those daredevil knights of the skies who formed part of that elite flying group known as the Lafayette Escadrille. Well, we got to chinning about flying in those days, when their "kites" were covered with a cloth fabric and painted with a substance known as "dope" and a #-calibre bullet came in one side and went out the other and they came back plenty mornings looking like a piece of Swiss cheese. Anyhow, we talked aviation clean up through the jet jobs of today that can crowd a thousand miles per hour. When the chin music was over, we had it all figured out how, ten years hence, we'd be crossing the Atlantic in better than three hours, with #passenger ram jets doing # miles per at # feet. You know, that's too fantas Now, about that little ole light. I'd a sworn it was around here some place. -- jlq A captivating new story, by the author of The Exploration of Space, in which a stubborn archeologist and an equally stubborn magazine reporter get delightfully inpdage about possession being nine-tenths of the law. By Arthur C. Clarke Illustrated by Ed Valigursky a small man that a special spacesuit had to be made for him. But what he lacked in physical size he more than made up -- as is often the case -- in sheer drive and determination. When I met him, he'd spent twenty years pursuing a dream. What is more to the point, he had persuaded a whole succession of hard-headed business men, World Council Delegates and administrators of scientific trusts, to underwrite his expenses and to fit out a ship for him. Despite everything that happened later, I still think that was his most remarkable achievement... The Arnold Toynbee had a crew of six aboard when we left Earth. Besides the Professor and Charles Ashton, his chief assistant, there was the usual pilot-navigator-engineer triumvirate and two graduate students -- Bill Hawkins and myself. Neither of us had ever gone into space before, and we were still so excited over the whole thing that we didn't care in the least whether we got back to Earth before the next term started. We had a strong suspicion that our tutor had very similar views. The reference he had produced for us was a masterpiece of ambiguity, but as the number of people who could even begin to read Martian script could be counted on the fingers of one hand, we'd got the job. As we were going to Jupiter, and not to Mars, the purpose of this particular qualification seemed a little obscure, though knowing something about the Professor's theories we had some pretty shrewd suspicions. They were partly confirmed when we were ten days out from Earth. The Professor looked at us very thoughtfully when we answered his summons. Even under zero g he always managed to preserve his dignity, while the best we could do was to cling to the nearest handhold and float around like drifting seaweed. I got the impression (though I may of course be wrong) that he was thinking "What have I done to deserve this?" as he looked from Bill to me and back again. Then he gave a sort of "It's too late to do anything about it now" sigh and began to speak in that slow, patient way he always does when he has something to explain. At least, he always uses it when he's speaking to us. "Since we left Earth," he said, "I've not had much chance to tell you the purpose of this expedition. Perhaps you've guessed it already." "I think I have," said Bill. "Well, go on," replied the Professor, a peculiar gleam in his eye. I did my best to stop Bill, but have you ever tried to kick anyone when you're in free fall? "You want to find some proof -- I mean, some more proof -- of your diffusion theory of extra-terrestrial culture." "And have you any idea why I'm going to Jupiter to look for it?" "Well -- not exactly. I suppose you hope to find something on one of the moons." are fifteen known satellites, and their total area is about half that of Earth. Where would you start looking if you had a couple of weeks to spare? I'd rather like to know." Bill glanced doubtfully at the Professor, as if he almost suspected him of sarcasm. "I don't know much about astronomy," he said. "But there are four big moons, aren't there? I'd start on those." "For your information, Io, Europa, Ganymede and Callisto are each about as big as Africa. Would you work through them in alphabetical order?" "No," Bill replied promptly. "I'd start on the one nearest Jupiter and go outwards." "I don't think we'll waste any more time pursuing your logical processes," sighed the Professor. He was obviously impatient to begin his set speech. "Anyway, you're quite wrong. We're not going to the big moons at all. They've been photographically surveyed from space and large areas have been explored on the surface. They've got nothing of archeological interest. We're going to a place that's never been visited before." "Not to Jupiter!" I gasped. "Heavens, no -- nothing as drastic as that! But we're going nearer to him than anyone else has ever been." He paused thoughtfully. "It's a curious thing, you know -- or you probably don't -- that it's nearly as difficult to travel between Jupiter's satellites as it is to go between the planets, although the distances are so much smaller. This is because Jupiter's got such a terrific gravitational field and his moons are traveling so quickly. The innermost moon's moving almost as fast as Earth and the journey to it from Ganymede costs almost as much fuel as the trip from Earth to Venus, even though it takes only a day and a half. "And it's that journey which we're going to make. No one's ever done it before because nobody could think of any good reason for the expense. Jupiter Five is only eighteen miles, in diameter, so it couldn't possibly be of much interest. Even some of the outer satellites, which are far easier to reach, haven't been visited because it hardly seemed worth while to waste the rocket fuel." "Then why are we going to waste it?" I asked impatiently. The whole thing sounded like a complete wild-goose chase, though so long as it proved interesting, and involved no actual danger, I didn't greatly mind. Perhaps I ought to confess -- though I'm tempted to say nothing, as a good many others have done -- that at this time I didn't believe a word of Professor Forster's theories. Of course, I realized that he field, but I did draw the line at some of his more fantastic ideas. After all, the evidence was so slight and the conclusions so revolutionary that one could hardly help being skeptical. Perhaps you can still remember the astonishment when the first Martian expedition found the remains not of one ancient civilization, but of two. Both had been highly advanced, but both had perago. The reason was unknown (and still is) : it did not seem to be warfare, as the two cultures appear to have lived amicably together. One of the races had been insectlike, the other vaguely reptilian. The insects seem to have been the genuine, original Martians: the reptile-people -- usually referred to as "Culture X" -- had arrived on the scene later. So, at least, Professor Forster maintained. They had certainly possessed the secret of space travel, because the ruins of their peculiar cruciform cities had been found on -- of all places -- Mercury. Forster believed that they had tried to colonize all the smaller planets -- Earth and Venus having been ruled out because of the excessive gravity. It was a source of some disappointment to the Professor that no traces of Culture X had ever been found on the Moon, though he was certain that such a discovery was only a matter of time. The "conventional" theory of Culture X was that it had originally come from one of the smaller planets or satellites, had made peaceful contact with the Martians -- the only other intelligent race in the known history of the System -- and had died out at the same time as Martian civilization. But Professor Forster had more ambitious ideas: he was convinced that Culture X had entered the Solar System from interstellar space. The fact that no one else believed this annoyed him, though not very much, for he is one of those people who is only happy when in a minority. could see Jupiter through the cabin porthole as Professor Forster unfolded his plan. It was a beautiful sight: I could just make out the equatorial cloud belts and three of the satellites were visible as little stars close to the planet. I wondered which was Ganymede, our first port of call. "If Jack will condescend to pay attention," the Professor continued, "HI tell you why we're going such a long way from home. You know that last year I spent a good deal of time poking among the ruins in the twilight belt of Mercury. Perhaps you read the paper I gave on the subject at the London School of Economics. You may even have been there -- I do remember a disturbance at the back of the hall. "What I didn't tell anyone then was that while I was on Mercury I discovered an important clue to the origin of Culture X. I've kept quiet about it, although I've been sorely tempted when fools like Dr. Haughton have tried to be funny at my expense. But I wasn't going to risk letting someone else get here before I could organize this expedition. "One of the things I found on Mercury was a rather well-preserved bas-relief of the Solar System. It's not the first that's been discovered -- as you know astronomical motifs are common in true Martian and Culture X art. But there were certain peculiar symbols against various planets, including Mars and Mercury. I think the pattern had some historic significance, and the most curious thing about it is that little Jupiter Five -- one of the least important of all the satellites -- seemed to have the most attention drawn to it. I'm convinced that there's something on Five which is the key to the whole problem of Culture X, and I'm going there to discover what it is." As far as I can remember now, neither Bill nor I was particularly impressed by the Professor's story. Maybe the people of Culture X had left some artifacts on Five for obscure reasons of their own. It would be interesting to unearth them, but hardly likely that they would be as important as the Professor thought. I guess he was rather disappointed at our lack of enthusiasm: if so it was his fault since, as we discovered later, he was still holding out on us. We landed on Ganymede, the third and largest moon, about a week later. Ganymede is the only one of the satellites with a permanent base on it -- there's an observatory and a geophysical station with a staff of about fifty scientists. They were rather glad to see visitors, but we didn't stay long, as the Professor was anxious to refuel and set off again. The fact that we were heading for Five naturally aroused a good deal of interest but the professor wouldn't talk and we couldn't -- he kept too close an eye on us. Ganymede, by the way, is quite an interesting place and we managed to see rather more of it on the return journey. But as I've promised to write an article for another magazine about that, I'd better not say anything else here. Five took just over a day and a half, and it gave us an uncomfortable feeling to see Jupiter expanding hour by hour until it seemed as if he was going to fill the sky. I don't know much about astronomy, but I couldn't help thinking of the tremendous gravity field we were falling into. All sorts of things could go wrong so easily. If we ran out of fuel we'd never be able to get back to Ganymede, and we might even drop into Jupiter himself. I wish I could describe what it was like seeing that colossal globe, with its raging storm belts spinning in the sky ahead of us. Luckily there have been so many color close-ups of Jupiter published by You might lie to Keep your eyes on the "National Geographic" next spring . now that you're bound to have seen some of them. You may even have seen the one which, as I'll explain later, was the cause of all our trouble. At last Jupiter stopped growing: we'd swung into the orbit of Five and would soon catch up with the tiny moon as it raced around the planet. We were all squeezed in the control room waiting for our first glimpse of our target -- at least, all of us who could get in were doing so. Bill and I were crowded out into the corridor and could only crane over other people's shoulders. Kingsley Searle, our pilot, was in the control seat looking as unruffled as ever: Eric Fulton, the engineer, was thoughtfully chewing his mustache and watching the fuel gauges, and Tony Groves was doing complicated things with his navigation tables. And the Professor appeared to be rigidly attached to the eyepiece of the teleperiscope. Suddenly he gave a start and we heard a whistle of indrawn breath. After a minute, without a word, he beckoned to Searle, who took his place at the eyepiece. Exactly the same thing happened, and then Searle handed over to Fulton. It got a bit monotonous by the time Groves had reacted identically, so we wormed our way in and took over after a bit of opposition. I don't know quite what I'd expected to see, so that's probably why I was disappointed. Hanging there in space was a tiny gibbous moon, its "night" sector lit up faintly by the reflected glory of Jupiter. And that seemed to be all. Then I began to make out additional markings, in the way that you do if you look through a telescope for long enough. There were faint criss-crossing lines on the surface of the satellite, and suddenly my eye grasped their full pattern. For it was a pattern: those lines covered Five with the same geometrical accuracy as the lines of latitude and longitude divide up a globe of the Earth. I suppose I gave my whistle of amazement, for then Bill pushed me out of the way and had his turn to look. The next thing I remember is Professor Forster looking very smug while we bombarded him with questions. "Of course," he explained, "this isn't as much a surprise to me as it is to you. Besides the evidence I'd found on Mercury, there were other clues. I've a friend at the Ganymede Observatory whom I've sworn to secrecy and who's been under quite a strain these last few weeks. It's rather surprising to anyone who's not an astronomer that the Observatory has never bothered much about the satellites. The big instruments are all used on extra-galactic nebulae, and the little ones spend all their time looking at Jupiter. "The only thing the Observatory had ever done to Five was to measure its diameter and take a few photographs. They weren't quite good enough to show the markings we've just observed, otherwise there would have been an investigation before. But my friend Lawton detected them through the hundred centimeter reflector when I asked him to look, and he also noticed something else that should have been spotted before. Five is only eighteen miles in diameter, but it's much brighter than it should be for its size. When you compare its reflecting power -- its aldeb -- its -- " "Its albedo!" "Thanks, Tony -- its albedo with thaf of the other moons, you find that it's a much better reflector than it should be. In fact, it behaves more like polished metal than rock." "So that explains it!" I said. "The people of Culture X must have covered Five with an outer shell -- like the domes they built on Mercury, but on a bigger scale." The Professor looked at me rather pityingly. "So you still haven't guessed!" he said. I don't think this was quite fair. Frankly, would you have done any better in the same circumstances? on an enormous metal plain. As I looked through the portholes, I felt completely dwarfed by my surroundings. An ant crawling on the top of an oil storage tank might have had much the same feelings -- and the looming bulk of Jupiter up there in the sky didn't help. Even the Professor's usual cockiness now seemed to be overlaid by a kind of reverent awe. The plain wasn't quite devoid of features. Running across it in various directions were broad bands where the stupendous metal plates had been joined together. These bands, or the criss-cross pattern they formed, were what we had seen from space. About three hundred yards away was a low hill -- at least, what would have been a hill on a natural world. We had spotted it on our way in after making a careful survey of the little satellite from space. It was one of six such projections, four arranged equidistantly around the equator and the other two at the Poles. The assumption was pretty obvious that they would be entrances to the world below the metal shell. I know that some people think it must be very entertaining to walk around on an airless, low-gravity planet in space-suits. Well, it isn't. There are so many points to think about, so many checks to make and precautions to observe, that the mental strain outweighs the glamour -- at least as far as I'm concerned. But I must admit that this time, as we climbed out of the airlock, I was so excited that for once these things didn't worry me. The gravity of Five was so microscopic that walking was completely out of the question. We were all roped together like mountaineers and blew ourselves across the metal plain with gentle bursts from our recoil pistols. The experienced astronauts, Fulton and Groves, were at the two ends of the chain so that any unwise eagerness on the part of the people in the middle was restrained. It took us only a few minutes to reach our objective, which we discovered to be a broad, low dome at least six hundred yards in circumference. I wondered if it was a gigantic airlock, large enough to permit the entrance of whole spaceships. Unless we were very lucky, we might be unable to find a way in since the controlling mechanisms would no longer be functioning -- and even if they were, we would not know how to operate them. It would be difficult to imagine anything more tantalizing than being locked out, unable to get at the greatest archeological find in all history. We had made a quarter circuit of the dome when we found an opening in the metal shell. It was quite small -- only about seven feet across -- and it was so nearly circular that for a moment we did not realize what it was. Then Tony's voice came over the radio: "That's not artificial. We've got a meteor to thank for it." "Impossible!" protested Professor Forster. "It's much too regular." Tony was stubborn. "Big meteors always produce circular holes, unless they strike very glancing blows. And look at the edges -- you can see there's been an explosion of some kind. Probably the meteor and the shell were vaporized -- we won't find any fragments." "You'd expect this sort of thing to happen," put in Kingsley. "How long has this been here? Five million years? I'm surprised we haven't found any other craters." "Maybe you're right," said the Professor, too pleased to argue. "Anyway, I'm going in first." "Right," said Kingsley, who as captain had the last say in all such matters. "I'll give you seventy feet of rope and will sit in the hole so that we can keep radio contact. Otherwise this shell will blanket your signals." So Professor Forster was the first man to enter Five, as he deserved to be. We crowded close to Kingsley so that he could relay news of the Professor's progress. He didn't get very far. There was another shell just inside the outer one, as we might have expected. The Professor had room to stand upright between them, and as far as his torch could throw its beam he could see avenues of supporting struts and girders, but that was about all. It took us twenty-four exasperating hours before we got any further. Near the end of that time I remember asking the Professor why he hadn't thought of bringing any explosives. He gave me a very hurt look. "There's enough aboard the ship to blow us all to glory," he said. "But I'm not going to risk doing any damage if I can find another way." That's what I call patience, but I could see his point of view. After all, what was another few days in a search that had already taken him twenty years? ple, who found the way in when we had abandoned our first line of approach. Near the North Pole of the little world he discovered a really giant meteor hole -- over a hundred yards across and cutting through both the outer shells surrounding Five. It had revealed still another shell below those, and by one of those chances that must happen if one waits enough aeons, a second, smaller, meteor had come down inside the crater and penetrated the innermost skin. The hole was just big enough to allow entrance for a man in a space-suit. We went through head first, one at a time. I don't suppose I'll ever have a more weird experience than hanging from that tremendous vault, like a spider suspended beneath the dome of St. Peter's. We only knew that the space in which we floated was vast: just how big it was we could not tell, for our torches gave us no sense of distance. In this airless, dustless cavern the beams were, of course, totally invisible and when we shone them on the roof above, we could see the ovals of light dancing away into the distance until they were too diffused to be visible. If we pointed them "downwards" we could see a pale smudge of illumination so far below that it revealed nothing. Very slowly, under the minute gravity of this tiny world, we fell downwards until checked by our safety ropes. Overhead I could see the tiny glimmering patch through which we had entered: it was remote but reassuring. And then, while I was swinging with an infinitely sluggish pendulum motion at the end of my cable, with the lights of my companions glimmering like fitful stars in the darkness around me, the truth suddenly crashed into my brain. Forgetting that we were all on open circuit, I cried out involuntarily: "Professor -- I don't believe this is a planet at all! It's a spaceship!" Then I stopped, feeling that I had made a fool of myself. There was a brief, tense silence, then a babble of noise as everyone else started arguing at once. Professor Forster's voice cut across the confusion and I could tell that he was both pleased and surprised. "You're quite right, Jack. This is the ship that brought Culture X to the Solar System." I heard someone -- it sounded like Eric Fulton -- give a gasp of incredulity. "It's fantastic! A ship eighteen miles across!" "You ought to know better than that," replied the Professor, with surprising mildness. "Suppose a civilization wanted to cross interstellar space -- how else would it attack the problem? It would build a mobile planetoid out in space, taking perhaps centuries over the task. Since the ship would have to be a self-contained world, which could support its inhabitants for generations, it would need to be as large as this. I wonder how many suns they visited before they found ours and knew that their search was ended? They must have had smaller ships that could take them down to the planets, and of course they had to leave the parent vessel somewhere in space. So they parked it here, in a close orbit near the largest planet, where it would remain safely forever -- or until they needed it again. It was the logical place : if they had set it circling the Sun, in time the pulls of the planets would have disturbed its orbit so much that it might have been lost. That could never happen to it here." "Tell me, Professor," someone asked, "did you guess all this before we started?" "I hoped it. All the evidence pointed to this answer. There's always been something anomalous about Satellite Five, though no one seems to have noticed it. Why this single tiny moon so close to Jupiter, when all the other small satellites are seventy times further away? Astronomically speaking, it didn't make sense -- but enough of this chattering. We've got work to do." That, I think, must count as the understatement of the century. There were seven of us, faced with the greatest archeological discovery of all time. Almost a whole world -- a small world, an artificial one, but still a world -- was waiting for us to explore. All we could perform was a swift and superficial reconnaissance: there might be material here for generations of research workers. The first step was to lower a powerful floodlight on a powerline running from the ship. This would act as a beacon and prevent us getting lost, as well as give local illumination on the inner surface of the satellite. (Even now, I still find it hard to call Five a ship.) Then we dropped down the line to the surface below. It was a fall of about a mile, and in this low gravity it was quite safe to make the drop unretarded. The gentle shock of the impact could be absorbed easily enough by the spring-loaded staffs we carried for that purpose. I simply can't remember what I was feeling when we came across the first of the great mushroomcapped entrance shafts. I suppose I was so excited and so overwhelmed by the wonder of it all that I've forgotten everything else. But I can recall the impression of sheer size -- something which mere photographs can never give. The builders of this world, coming as they did from a planet of low gravity, were giants -- about four times as tall as men. We were pigmies crawling among their works. We never got below the outer levels on our first visit, so we met few of the scientific marvels which later expeditions discovered. That was just as well: the residential areas provided enough to keep us busy for several lifetimes. The globe we were exploring must once have been lit by artificial sunlight pouring down from the triple shell that surrounded it and kept its atmosphere from leaking into space. Here on the surface the Jovians (I suppose I cannot avoid adopting the popular name for the peoples of Culture X) had reproduced, as accurately as they could, conditions on the world they had left, unknown ages ago. Perhaps they still had day and night, changing seasons, rain and mist. They had even taken a tiny sea with them into exile. The water was still there, forming a frozen lake two miles across. I hear that there is a plan afoot to electrolize it and provide Five with a breathable atmosphere again, as soon as the meteor holes in the outer shell have been plugged. The more we saw of their work, the more we grew to like and admire the race whose possessions we were disturbing for the first time in giants from another sun, they had much in common with man, and it is a great tragedy that our races missed each other by what is, on the cosmic scale, such a narrow margin. We were, I suppose, more fortunate than any archeologists in history. The vacuum of space had preserved everything from decay and -- this was something which could not have been expected -- the Jovians had not emptied their mighty ship of all its treasures when they had set out to colonize the Solar System. Here on the inner surface of Five everything still seemed intact, as it had been at the end of the ship's long journey. Perhaps the travelers had preserved it as a shrine in memory of their lost home -- or perhaps they had thought that one day they might have to use these things again. Whatever the reason, everything here was as its makers had left it. Sometimes it frightened me. I might be photographing, with Bill's help, some great wall carving when the sheer timelessness of the place would strike into my heart. I would look round nervously, half expecting to see giant shapes come stalking in through the pointed doorways, to continue the tasks that had been momentarily interrupted. lery on the fourth day. That was the only name for it; there was no mistaking its purpose. When Groves and Searle, who had been doing rapid sweeps over the southern hemisphere, reported the discovery we decided to concentrate all our forces there. For, as somebody or other had said, the art of a people reveals its soul, and here we might find the key to Culture X. The building was huge, even by the standards of this giant race. Like all the other structures on Five, it was made of metal, yet there was nothing cold or mechanical about it. The topmost peak climbed half way to the remote roof of the world, and from a distance -- before the details were visible -- the building looked not unlike a Gothic cathedral. Misled by this chance resemblance, some later writers have called it a temple: but we have never found any trace of what might be called a religion among the Jovians. Yet there seems something appropriate about the name "The Temple of Art", and it's stuck so thoroughly that no one can change it now. It has been estimated that there individual exhibits in this single building -- the harvest garnered during the whole history of a race that may have been much older than Man. And it was here that I found a small, circular room which at first sight seemed to be no more than the meeting place of six radiating corridors. I was by myself (and thus, I'm afraid, disobeying the Professor's orders) and taking what I thought would be a shortcut back to my companions. The dark walls were drifting silently past me as I glided along, the light of my torch dancing over the ceiling ahead. It was covered with deeply cut lettering, and I was so busy looking for familiar character groupings that for some time I paid no attention to the chamber's floor. Then I saw the statue and focussed my beam upon it. The moment when one first meets a great work of art has an impact that can never again be recaptured. In this case the subject matter made the effect all the more overwhelming. I was the first man ever to know what the Jovians had looked like, for here, carved with superb skill and authority, was one obviously modeled from the life. The slender, reptilian head was looking straight towards me, the sightless eyes staring into mine. Two of the hands were clasped upon the breast as if in resignation : the other two were holding an instrument whose purpose is still unknown. The long, powerful tail -- which, like a kangaroo's, probably balanced the rest of the body -- was stretched out along the ground, adding to the impression of rest or repose. There was nothing human about the face or the body: there were, for example, no nostrils -- only gilllike openings in the neck. Yet the figure moved me profoundly: the artist had spanned the barriers of time and culture in a way I should never have believed possible. "Not human -- but humane" was the verdict Professor Forster gave. There were many things we could not have shared with the builders of this world, but all that was really important we would have felt in common. Just as one can read emotions in the alien but familiar face of a dog or a horse, so it seemed that I knew the feelings of the being confronting me. Here was wisdom and authority -- the calm, confident power that is shown, for example, in Bellini's famous portrait of the Doge Loredano. Yet there was sadness also -- the sadness of a race which had made some stupendous effort, and made it in vain. We still do not know why this single statue is the only representation the Jovians have ever made of themselves in their art. One would hardly expect to find taboos of this nature among such an advanced race : perhaps we will know the answer when we have deciphered the writing carved on the chamber walls. Yet I am already certain of the statue's purpose. It was set here to bridge time and to greet whatever beings might one day stand in the footsteps of its makers. That, perhaps, is why they shaped it so much smaller than life. Even then they must have guessed that the future belonged to Earth or Venus, and hence to beings whom they would have dwarfed. They knew that size could be a barrier as well as time. A few minutes later I was on my way back to the ship with my companions, eager to tell the Professor about the discovery. He had been reluctantly snatching some rest, though I don't believe he averaged more than four hours sleep a day all the time we were on Five. The golden light of Jupiter was flooding the great metal plain as we emerged through the shell and stood beneath the stars once more. "Hello!" I heard Bill say over the radio, "the Prof's moved the ship." "Nonsense," I retorted. "It's exactly where we left it." Then I turned my head and saw the reason for Bill's mistake. We had visitors. down a couple of miles away, and as far as my non-expert eyes could tell it might have been a duplicate of ours. When we hurried through the airlock, we found that the Professor, a little bleary-eyed, was already entertaining. To our surprise, though not exactly to our displeasure, one of the three visitors was an extremely attractive brunette. "This," said Professor Forster, 'a little wearily, "is Mr. Randolph Mays, the science writer. I imagine you've heard of him. And this is -- " he turned to Mays. "I'm afraid I didn't quite catch the names." "My pilot, Donald Hopkins -- my secretary, Marianne Mitchell." There was just the slightest pause before the word "secretary", but it was long enough to set a little signal light flashing in my brain. I kept my eyebrows from going up, but I caught a glance from Bill that said, without any need for words "If you're thinking what I'm thinking, I'm ashamed of you." Mays was a tall, rather cadaverous man with thinning hair and an attitude of bonhomie which one felt was only skin deep -- the protective coloration of a man who has to be friendly with too many people. "I expect this is as big a surprise to you as it is to me," he said with unnecessary heartiness. "I certainly never expected to find anyone here before me -- and I certainly didn't expect to find all this" "What brought you here?" said Ashton, trying to sound not too suspiciously inquisitive. "I was just explaining that to the Professor. Can I have that folder please, Marianne? Thanks." He drew out a series of very fine astronomical paintings and passed them round. They showed the planets from their satellites -- a common enough subject, of course. "You've all seen this sort of thing before," Mays continued. "But there's a difference here. These pictures are nearly a hundred years, old: they were painted by an artist named Chesley Bonestell and appeared in Life back in # -- long before space travel began, of course. Now what's happened is that Life has commissioned me to go round the Solar System and see how well I can match these imaginative paintings against the reality. In the centenary issue, they'll be published side by side with photographs of the real thing. Good idea, eh?" I had to admit that it was. But it was going to make matters rather complicated, and I wondered wha the Professor thought about it. Then I glanced again at Miss Mitchell, standing demurely in the corner, and decided that there would be compensations. In any other circumstances, we would have been glad to meet another party of explorers, but here there was the question of priority to be considered. Mays would certainly be hurrying back to Earth as quickly as he could, his original mission abandoned, and all his films used up here and now. It was difficult to see how we could stop him, and not even certain that we desired to do so. We wanted all the publicity and support we could get -- but we would prefer to do things in our own time, after our own fashion. I wondered how strong the Professor was on tact, and feared the worst. Yet, at first, diplomatic relations were smooth enough. The Professor had hit on the bright idea of pairing each of us with one of Mays' team, so that we acted simultaneously as guides and supervisors. Doubling the number of investigating groups also greatly increased the rate at which we could work. It was unsafe for anyone to operate by himself under these conditions, and this had handicapped us a good deal. The Professor outlined his policy to us the day after the arrival of Mays' party. "I hope we can get along together," he said a little anxiously. "As far as I'm concerned they can go where they like and photograph what they like -- as long as they don't take anything, and as long as they don't get back to Earth with their records before we do." "I don't see how we can stop them," protested Ashton. "Well, I hadn't intended to do this, but I've now registered a claim to Five. I radioed it to Ganymede last night, and it will be at The Hague by now." "But no one can claim an astronomical body for himself. That was settled in the case of the Moon, back in the last century." The Professor gave a rather crooked smile. "I'm not annexing an astronomical body , remember. I've put in a claim for salvage, and I've done it in the name of the World Science Organization. If Mays takes anything out of Five, he'll be stealing it from them. Tomorrow I'm going to explain the situation gently to him, just in case he gets any bright ideas." It certainly seemed peculiar to think of Satellite Five as salvage, and I could imagine some pretty legal quarrels developing when we got home. But for the present the Professor's move should have given us some safeguards and might discourage Mays from collecting souvenirs -- so we were optimistic enough to hope. izing, but I managed to get paired off with Marianne for several trips round the interior of Five. Mays didn't seem to mind : there was no particular reason why he should. A space-suit is the most perfect chaperon ever devised, confound it! Naturally enough, I took her to the art gallery at the first opportunity, and showed her my find. She stood looking at the statue for a long time while I held my torch beam upon it. "It's very wonderful," she breathed at last. "Just think of it -- waiting here in the darkness all have to give it a name." "I have. I've christened it 'The Ambassador'." "Why?" "Well, because I think it's a kind of envoy, if you like, carrying a greeting to us. The people who made it knew that one day someone else was bound to come here and find this place." "I think you're right. 'The Ambassador -- yes, that was clever of you. There's something noble about it -- and something very sad, too. Don't you feel it?" I could tell that Marianne was a veij intelligent woman : it was quite remarkable the way she saw my point of view, and the interest she took in everything I showed her. But The Ambassador fascinated her most of all, and she kept on coming back to it. "You know, Jack," she said (I think this was sometime the next day, when Mays had been to see it as well) "you must take that statue back to Earth. Think of the sensation it would cause." I sighed. "The Professor would like to, but it must weigh a ton. We can't afford the fuel. It will have to wait for a later trip." She looked puzzled. "But things hardly weigh anything here," she protested. "That's different," I explained. "There's weight, and there's inertia -- two quite different things. Now inertia -- oh, never mind. We can't take it back, anyway. Captain Searle's told us that, definitely." "What a pity," said Marianne. I forgot all about this conversation until the night before we left. We had had a busy and exhausting day packing our equipment (a good deal, of course, we left behind for future use). All our photographic material had been used up: as Charlie Ashton remarked, if we met a live Jovian now we'd be unable to record the fact. I think we all wanted a breathing space, an opportunity to relax and sort out our impressions and to recover from our head-on collision with an alien culture. Mays' ship, the Henry Luce , was also nearly ready for take-off. We would leave at the same time, an arrangement which suited the Professor admirably as he did not trust Mays alone on Five. Everything had been settled when, while checking through our records, I suddenly found that six rolls of exposed film were missing. They were photographs of a complete set of transcriptions in the Temple of Art. After a certain amount of thought I recalled that they had been entrusted to my charge, and I had put them very carefully on a ledge in the Temple, intending to collect them later. It was a long time before takeoff, the Professor and Ashton were canceling some arrears of sleep, and there seemed no reason why I should not slip back to collect the missing material. I knew there would be a row if it was left behind, and as I remembered exactly where it was I need be gone only thirty minutes. So I went, explaining my mission to Bill just in case of accidents. The floodlight was no longer working, of course, and the darkness inside the shell of Five was somewhat oppressive. But I left a portable beacon at the entrance, and dropped freely until my handtorch told me it .was time to break the fall. Ten minutes later, with a sigh of relief, I gathered up the missing films. It was a natural enough thing to pay my last respects to The Ambassador: it might be years before I saw him again, and that calmly enigmatic figure had begun to exercise an extraordinary fascination over me. Unfortunately, that fascination had not been confined to me alone. For the chamber was empty and the statue gone. I suppose I could have crept back and said nothing, thus avoiding awkward explanations. But I was too furious to think of discretion, and as soon as I returned we woke the Professor and told him what had happened. He sat on his bunk rubbing the sleep out of his eyes, then uttered a few harsh words about Mr. Mays and his companions which it would do no good at all to repeat here. "What I don't understand," said Searle "is how they got the thing out -- if they have, in fact. We should have spotted it." "There are plenty of hiding places -- and they could have waited until there was no one around before they took it up through the hull. It must have been quite a job, even under this gravity," remarked Eric Fulton, in tones of admiration. "There's no time for postmortems," said the Professor savagely. "We've got five hours to think of something. They can't take off before then, because we're only just past opposition with Ganymede. That's correct, isn't it Kingsley?" Searle nodded agreement. "Yes. We must move round to the other side of Jupiter before we can enter a transfer orbit -- at least, a reasonably economical one." "Good. That gives us a breathing space. Well -- has anyone any ideas?" Looking back on the whole thing now, it often seems to me that our subsequent behavior was, shall I say, a little peculiar and slightly uncivilized. It was not the sort of thing we could have imagined ourselves doing a few months before. But we were annoyed and overwrought, and our remoteness from all other human beings somehow made everything seem different. Since there was no other law here, we had to make it. "Can't we do something to stop them taking off? Could we sabotage their rockets, for instance?" asked Bill. Searle didn't like this idea at all. "We mustn't do anything drastic," he said. "Besides, Don Hopkins is a good friend of mine. He'd never forgive me if I damaged his ship. There'd be the danger, too, that we might do something that couldn't be repaired." "Then pinch their fuel," said Groves laconically. "Of course! They're probably all asleep -- there's no light in the cabin. All we've got to do is to connect up and pump." "A very nice idea," I pointed out "but we're nearly two miles apart. How much pipeline have we got?" The others ignored this interruption as if it was beneath contempt and went on making their plans. Five minutes later the technicians had settled everything: we only had to climb into our space-suits and do the work. the Professor's expedition, that I should end up like an African porter in one of those old adventure stories, carrying a load on my head. Especially when that load was a sixth of a spaceship (being so short, Professor Forster wasn't able to provide very effective help.) Now that its fuel tanks were half empty, the weight of the ship, in this gravity, was about # pounds. We all squeezed underneath, heaved, and up she went -- very slowly, of course, because her inertia was still unchanged. Then we started marching. It took us quite a while to make the journey, and it wasn't as easy as we'd thought it would be. But presently the two ships were lying side by side, and nobody had noticed us. Everyone in the Henry Luce was fast asleep, as they had every reason to expect us to be. Though I was still rather short of breath, I found a certain schoolboy amusement in the whole adventure as Searle and Fulton drew the refueling pipeline out of our airlock and quietly coupled up to the other ship. "The beauty of this plan," explained Groves to me as we stood watching, "is that they can't do anything to stop us, unless they come outside and uncouple our line. We can drain them dry in five minutes -- and it will take them half that time to wake up and get into their space-suits." A sudden horrid fear smote me. "Suppose they turned on their rockets and tried to get away?" "Then we'd both be smashed up. No -- they'll just have to come outside and see what's going on. Ah, there go the pumps." The pipeline had stiffened like a fire-hose under pressure, and I knew that the fuel was pouring into our tanks. Any moment now the lights would go on in the Henry Luce and her startled occupants would come scuttling out. It was something of an anticlimax when they didn't. They must have been sleeping very soundly not to have felt the vibration from the pumps, but when it was all over nothing had happened and we just stood round looking rather foolish. Searle and Fulton carefully uncoupled the pipeline and put it back into the airlock. "Well?" we asked the Professor. He thought things over for a minute. "Let's get back into the ship," he said. When we had climbed out of our suits and were gathered together in the control room, or as far in as we could get, the Professor sat down at the radio and punched out the Emergency signal. Our sleeping neighbors would be awake in a couple of seconds as their automatic receiver sounded the alarm. The TV screen glimmered into life. There, looking rather frightened, was Randolph Mays. "Hello, Forster," he snapped. "What's the trouble?" "Nothing wrong here," replied the Professor in his best dead-pan manner, "but you've lost something important. Look at your fuel gauges." The screen emptied, and for a moment there was a confused mumbling and shouting from the speaker. Then Mays was back, annoyance and alarm competing for possession of his features. "What's going on?" he demanded angrily. "Do you know anything about this?" The Prof, let him sizzle for a moment before he replied. "I think you'd better come across and talk things over," he said. "You won't have far to walk." Mays glared back at him uncertainly, then retorted "You bet I will!" The screen went blank. "He'll have to climb down now!" said Bill gleefully. "There's nothing else he can do!" "It's not so simple as you think," warned Fulton. "If he really wanted to be awkward, he could just sit tight and radio Ganymede for a tanker." "What good would that do him? It would waste days and cost a fortune." "Yes, but he'd still have the statue, if he wanted it that badly. And he'd get his money back when he sued us." The airlock light flashed on and Mays stumped into the room. He was in a surprisingly conciliatory mood: on the way over, he must have had second thoughts. "Well, well," he said affably. "What's all this nonsense in aid of?" "You know perfectly well," the Professor retorted coldly. "I made it quite clear that nothing was to be taken off Five. You've been stealing property that doesn't belong to you." "Now let's be reasonable. Who does it belong to? You can't claim everything on this planet as your personal property." "This is not a planet -- it's a ship and the laws of salvage operate." "Frankly, that's a very debatable point. Don't you think you should wait until you get a ruling from the lawyers?" The Professor was being icily polite, but I could see that the strain was terrific and an explosion might occur any moment. "Listen, Mr. Mays," he said with ominous calm. "What you've taken is the most important single find we've made here. I will make allowances for the fact that you don't appreciate what you've done, and don't understand the viewpoint of an archeologist like myself. Return that statue, and we'll pump your fuel back and say no more." Mays rubbed his chin thoughtfully. "I really don't see why you should make such a fuss about one statue, when you consider all the stuff that's still here." It was then that the Professor made one of his rare mistakes. "You talk like a man who's stolen the Mona Lisa from the Louvre and argues that nobody will miss it because of all the other paintings. This statue's unique in a way that no terrestrial work of art can ever be. That's why I'm determined to get it back." You should never, when you're bargaining, make it obvious that you want something really badly. I saw the greedy glint in Mays' eye and said to myself "Uh-huh! He's going to be tough." And I remembered Fulton's remark about calling Ganymede for a tanker. "Give me half an hour to think it over," said Mays, turning to the airlock. "Very well," replied the Professor stiffly. "Half an hour -- no more." I must give Mays credit for brains. Within five minutes we saw his communications aerial start slewing round until it locked on Ganymede. Naturally we tiied to listen in, but he had a scrambler. These newspaper men must trust each other. The reply came back a few minutes later : that was scrambled, too. While we were waiting for the next development, we had another council of war. The Professor was now entering the stubborn, stop-atnothing stage : he realized he'd miscalculated and that had made him fighting mad. I think Mays must have been a little apprehensive, because he had reinforcements when he returned. Donald Hopkins, his pilot, came with him, looking rather uncomfortable. "I've been able to fix things up, Professor," he said smugly. "It will take me a little longer, but I can get back without your help if I have to. Still, I must admit that it will save a good deal of time and money if we can come to an agreement. I'll tell you what. Give me back my fuel and I'll return the other -- er -- souvenirs I've collected. But I insist on keeping Mona Lisa, even if it means I won't get back to Ganymede until the middle of next week." The Professor then uttered a number of what are usually called deep-space oaths, though I can assure you they're much the same as any other oaths. That seemed to relieve his feelings a lot and he became fiendishly friendly. "My dear Mr. Mays," he said, "you're an unmitigated crook, and accordingly I've no compunction left in dealing with you. I'm prepared to use force, knowing that the law will justify me." Mays looked slightly alarmed, though not unduly so. We had moved to strategic positions round the door. "Please don't be melodramatic," he said haughtily. "I must ask you," the Professor continued, "to consider yourself under detention while we decide what is to be done. Mr. Searle, take him to Cabin B." Mays sidled along the wall with a nervous laugh. "Really, Professor, this is too childish! You can't detain me against my will." He glanced for support at the captain of the Henry Luce . Donald Hopkins dusted an imaginary speck of fluff from his uniform. "I refuse," he remarked for the benefit of all concerned, "to get involved in vulgar brawls." Mays gave him a venomous look and capitulated with bad grace. We saw that he had a good supply of reading matter, and locked him in. When he was out of the way, the Professor turned to Hopkins, who was looking enviously at our fuel gauges. "Can I take it, Captain," he said politely, "that you don't wish to get mixed up in any of your employer's dirty business?" "I'm neutral. My job is to fly the ship here and take her home. You can fight this out among yourselves." "Thank you: I think we understand each other perfectly. Perhaps it would be best if you returned to your ship and explained the situation. We'll be calling you in a few minutes." Captain Hopkins made his way languidly to the door. As he was about to leave he turned to Searle. "By the way, Kingsley," he drawled. "Have you thought of torture? Do call me if you get round to it -- I've some jolly interesting ideas." Then he was gone, leaving us with our hostage. he could do a direct exchange. If so, he had not bargained on Marianne's stubbornness. "It serves Randolph right," she said. "But I don't really see that it makes any difference. He'll be just as comfortable in your ship as in ours, and you can't do anything to him. Let me know when you're fed up with having him around." It seemed a complete impasse. We had been too clever by half, and it had got us exactly nowhere. We'd captured Mays, but he wasn't any use to us. The Professor was standing with his back to us, staring morosely out of the window. Seemingly balanced on the horizon, the immense bulk of Jupiter nearly filled the sky. "We've got to convince her that we really do mean business," he said. Then he turned abruptly to me. "Do you think she's actually fond of this blackguard?" "Er -- I shouldn't be surprised. Yes, I really believe so." The Professor looked very thoughtful. Then he said to Searle : "Come into my room. I want to talk something over." They were gone quite a while. When they returned, they both had an indefinable air of gleeful anticipation, and the Professor was carrying a piece of paper covered with figures. He went to the radio and called the Henry Luce . "Hello," said Marianne, replying so promptly that she'd obviously been waiting for us. "Have you decided to call it off? I'm getting so bored." The Professor looked at her gravely. "Miss Mitchell," he replied. "It's apparent that you have not been taking us seriously. I'm therefore arranging a somewhat -- er -- drastic little demonstration for your benefit. I'm going to place your employer in a position from which he'll be only too anxious for you to retrieve him as quickly as possible." "Indeed?" replied Marianne non-committally -- though I thought I could detect a trace of apprehension in her voice. "I don't suppose," continued the Professor smoothly, "that you know anything about celestial mechanics... No? Too bad, but your pilot will confirm everything I tell you. Won't you, Hopkins?" "Go ahead," came a painstakingly neutral voice from the background. "Then listen carefully, Miss Mitchell. I want to remind you of our curious -- indeed our precarious -- position on this satellite. You've only got to look out of the window to see how close to Jupiter we are, and I need hardly remind you that Jupiter has by far the most intense gravitational field of all the planets. You follow me?" "Yes," replied Marianne, no longer quite so self-possessed. "Go on." "Very well. This little world of ours goes round Jupiter in almost exactly twelve hours. Now there's a well-known theorem stating that if a body falls from an orbit to the center of attraction, it will take point one seven seven of a period to make the drop. In other words, anything falling from here to Jupiter would reach the centre of the planet in about two hours seven minutes. I'm sure Captain Hopkins can confirm this." There was a long pause. Then we heard Hopkins say: "Well, of course I can't confirm the exact figures, but they're probably correct. It would be something like that, anyway." "Good," continued the Professor. "Now I'm sure you realize," he went on with a hearty chuckle, "that a fall to the center of the planet is a very theoretical case. If anything really was dropped from here, it would reach the upper atmosphere of Jupiter in a considerably shorter time. I hope I'm not boring you?" "No," said Marianne, rather faintly. "I'm so glad to hear it. Anyway, Captain Searle has worked out the actual time for me, and it's one hour thirty five minutes -- with a #  Mays found himself ascending helplessly toward the ominous bulk of Jupiter . few minutes either way. We can't guarantee complete accuracy, ha, ha! "Now it has doubtlessly not escaped your notice that this satellite of ours has an extremely weak gravitational field. Its escape velocity is only about thirty-five feet a second, and anything thrown away from it at that speed would never come back. Correct, Mr. Hopkins?" "Perfectly correct." "Then, if I may come to the point, we propose to take Mr. Mays for a walk until he's immediately under Jupiter, remove the reaction pistols from his suit, and -- ah -- launch him forth. We will be prepared to retrieve him with our ship as soon as you've handed over the property you've stolen. After what I've told you, I'm sure you'll appreciate that time will be rather vital. An hour and thirty-five minutes is remarkably short, isn't it?" "Professor!" I gasped. "You can't possibly do this." "Shut up!" he barked. "Well, Miss Mitchell, what about it?" Marianne was staring at him with mingled horror and disbelief. "You're simply bluffing," she cried. "I don't believe you'd do anything of the kind! Your crew won't let you!" The Professor sighed. "Too bad," he said. "Captain Searle -- Mr. Groves -- will you take the prisoner and proceed as instructed." "Aye-aye, sir," replied Searle with great solemnity. Mays looked frightened but stubborn. "What are you going to do now?" he said, as his suit was handed back to him. Searle unholstered his reaction pistols. "Just climb in," he said. "We're going for a walk." I realized then what the Professor hoped to do. The whole thing was a colossal bluff: of course he wouldn't really have Mays thrown into Jupiter -- and in any case Searle and Groves wouldn't do it. Surely Marianne would see through the bluff and then we'd be left looking mighty foolish. Mays couldn't run away: without his reaction pistols he was quite helpless. Grasping his arms and towing him along like a captive balloon, his escorts set off towards the horizon -- and towards Jupiter. I could see, looking across the space to the other ship, that Marianne was staring out through the observation windows at the departing trio. Professor Forster noticed it too. "I hope you're convinced, Miss Mitchell, that my men aren't carrying along an empty space-suit. Might I suggest that you follow the proceedings with a telescope? They'll be over the horizon in a minute, but you'll be able to see Mr. Mays when he starts to -- er -- ascend." There was a stubborn silence from the loudspeaker. The period of suspense seemed to last for a very long time. Was Marianne waiting to see how far the Professor really would go? By this time I had got hold of a pair of binoculars and was sweeping the sky beyond the ridiculously close horizon. Suddenly I saw it -- a tiny flare of light against the vast yellow back-cloth of Jupiter. I focussed quickly, and could just make out the three figures rising into space. As I watched, they separated : two of them decelerated with their pistols and started to fall back towards Five. The other went on ascending helplessly towards the ominous bulk of Jupiter. I turned on the Professor in horror and disbelief. "They've really done it!" I cried. "I thought you were only bluffing!" "So did Miss Mitchell, I've no doubt," said the Professor calmly, for the benefit of the listening microphone. "I hope I don't need to impress upon you the urgency of the situation. As I've remarked once or twice before, the time of fall from our orbit to Jupiter's surface is ninety-five minutes. But, of course, if one waited even half that time, it would be much too late..." He let that sink in. There was no reply from the other ship. "And now," he continued, "I'm going to switch off our receiver so we can't have any more arguments. We'll wait until you've unloaded that statue -- and the other items Mr. Mays was careless enough to mention -- before we'll talk to you again. Good-bye." minutes. I'd lost track of Mays, and was seriously wondering if we'd better overpower the Professor and go after him before we had a murder on our hands. But the people who could fly the ship were the ones who had actually carried out the crime. I didn't know what to think. Then the airlock of the Henry Luce slowly opened. A couple of space-suited figures emerged, floating the cause of all the trouble between them. "Unconditional surrender," murmured the Professor with a sigh of satisfaction. "Get it into our ship," he called over the radio, "I'll open up the airlock for you." He seemed in no hurry at all. I kept looking anxiously at the clock -- fifteen minutes had already gone by. Presently there was a clanking and banging in the airlock, the inner door opened, and Captain Hopkins entered. He was followed by Marianne, who only needed a bloodstained axe to make her look like Glytaemnestra. I did my best to avoid her eye, but the Professor seemed to be quite without shame. He walked into the airlock, checked that his property was back, and emerged rubbing his hands. "Well, that's that," he said cheerfully. "Now let's sit down and have a drink to forget all this unpleasantness, shall we?" I pointed indignantly at the clock. "Have you gone crazy!" I yelled. "He's already half-way to Jupiter!" Professor Forster looked at me disapprovingly. "Impatience," he said, "is a common failing in the young. I see no cause at all for hasty action." Marianne spoke for the first time : she now looked really scared. "But you promised," she whispered. The Professor suddenly capitulated. He had had his little joke, and didn't want to prolong the agony. "I can tell you at once, Miss Mitchell -- and you too. Jack -- that Mays is in no more danger than we are. We can go and collect him whenever we like." "Do you mean that you lied to me?" "Certainly not. Everything I told you was perfectly true. You simply jumped to the wrong conclusions. When I said that a body would take ninety-five minutes to fall from here to Jupiter, I omitted -- not, I must confess, accidentally -- a rather important phrase. I should have added "a body at rest with respect to Jupiter ." Your friend Mr. Mays was sharing the orbital speed of this satellite -- and he's still got it. A little matter of sixteen miles a second, Miss Mitchell. "Oh yes, we threw him completely off Five and towards Jupiter. But the velocity we gave him then was trivial. He's still moving in practically the same orbit as before. The most he can do -- I've got Captain Searle to work out the figures -- is to drift about sixty miles inward. And 'in one revolution -- twelve hours -- he'll be right back where he started, without us bothering to do anything at all." There was a long, long silence. Marianne's face was a study in frustration, relief, and annoyance at having been fooled. Then she turned on Captain Hopkins. "You must have known all the time! Why didn't you tell me?" Hopkins gave her a wounded expression. "You didn't ask me," he said. an hour later. He was only fifteen miles up, and we located him quickly enough by the flashing light on his suit. His radio had been disconnected, for a reason that hadn't occurred to me. He was intelligent enough to realize that he was in no danger, and if his set had been working he could have called his ship and exposed our bluff. That is, if he wanted to. Personally, I think I'd have been glad enough to call the whole thing off even if I had known that I was perfectly safe. It must have been awfully lonely up there. To my great surprise, Mays wasn't as mad as I'd expected. Perhaps he was too relieved to be back in our snug little cabin when we drifted up to him on the merest fizzle of rockets and yanked him in. Or perhaps he felt that he'd been worsted in fair fight and didn't bear any grudge. There isn't much more to tell -- except that we did play one other trick on him before we left Five. He had a good deal more fuel in his tanks than he really needed, noW that his payload was substantially reduced. By keeping the excess ourselves, we were able to carry the Ambassador back to Ganymede after all. Oh, yes, the Professor gave him a check for the fuel we'd borrowed. Everything was perfectly legal. There's one amusing sequel I must tell you, though. The day after the new gallery was opened at the British Museum I went along to see The Ambassador, partly to discover if his impact was still as great in these changed surround( Continued on page #) Mary might have learned a more ladylike trade , but one thing is certain: she had a shining faith in that space guy from Earth. Now, about that cake she baked... she knew he was coming By Kris Neville Illustrated by Ed Emsh low across the green dust of the Martian desert, its last rays sparkling on the far mountain tops. One by one, lights flickered on in the city. Mary must be expecting that Earthman," Anne said. She held her glastic blouse tight together over her breasts and leaned a little out of the window. Milly nodded. "The Azmuth landed this morning." The noises of commerce were fading. From the window Anne saw the neon blaze up over the door. For the thousandth time she blinked between the equivocal false, filtered up from the tea bars along the street. She looked westward, toward the spaceport, and made out the shadowy nose of the berthed space liner looming against the night. She could picture the scene -- a thousand stevedores unloading cargo, refill men and native spacewriters scurrying over the sleek hull, the Earth voyageurs shouting orders and curses. "Maybe he isn't even on it." Anne turned from the window. She crossed to the couch and sat down, fluffing out the green crinkly glass of her skirt; pendant, multicolored birds flashed from the rings in her ears. She tucked rosy feet under her scented body. "I don't like Earthmen," she said. "They spend money." "They make me sick," Anne said. "With their pale skins and ugly eyes and hairy bodies." "They have strong arms." Anne's wide, red mouth curled in distaste. "They're like a bunch of kids." The room was lighted by soft, overhead fire. Heavy drapes hung from the walls. Sweet, spicy incense curled bluely from the burners by the window. Before the mirror, Milly edged in the narrow line of her pink eyebrows with a pencil. She folded her lips in, rubbing them together, licked them, making them a glistening red. She pinched her cheeks. "I wonder when they'll catch Crescent?" she said. Anne yawned languorously. "It won't be long." "I wouldn't want to be in her shoes," Milly said. Anne patted her mouth lazily. "She ought to have known she couldn't run away." "What do you think Miss Bestris will do to her?" Anne stood up, brushing out the wrinkles in her dress. "I should care." "But what will she do?" Anne shrugged. "Whip her, maybe. How should I know?" "Don't you feel you'd like to run away, once in a while?" Milly asked, turning to look at the other girl. Anne laughed coldly. "I've got better sense." "But don't you want to?" Anne tossed her purple hair. "Where is there to go? Who is there to go to?" "Yes... I guess you're right." Milly turned back to her reflection. Buzzzzzz... Both girls turned their heads to the buttons on the wall. The white one was glowing. "It's Miss Bestris." "We'd better go," Milly said. Together they walked down the heavily carpeted stairs to the sitting room. The Madame was waiting. She was a large woman, rolling in creases of fat, and her pink hair was rough and clipped short. She had a pair of dimples in her cheeks and a single gold band around her right wrist. She was leaning against the piano. "Hurry now, girls, hurry right along," she said. More girls were entering the room; they spread out, sitting on the chairs, curling at the Madame's feet. Their eyes -- amethyst, gray or golden -- were on her face. Many had pink hair, others had tresses of purple or salmon. "Now, girls, I suppose you know there's an Earth ship in port?" The girls nodded. "So I expect we'll have visitors tonight. I want you to all look your very best." She smiled at them. "Anne, why don't you wear that low-cut, orange plastic with the spangles, and June, you the prim white one? You look like an angel in it." June smiled. "And Mary... ?" "Yes, Miss Bestris?" "Mary. Did you buy that neonylon I told you about?" "No, Miss Bestris." "Mary, Mary, Mary. I just don't understand you at all." "I'm saving my money, Miss Bestris," Mary said intently. "Yes, dear, I know that. We're all saving our money. But we simply must look presentable. We have a reputation to hold up." "Yes, Miss Bestris." "Then, Mary, dear, d# -- do, please , buy yourself something decent." "Yes, Miss Bestris. I will... Tomorrow. Tomorrow morning, if I..." "Child? If you what?" "Nothing, Miss Bestris." "Well. See that you get it tomorrow. If you don't, I'm afraid I'll have to take some of your money and get it for you." Mary looked down at the floor. The flaming glow of the hydrojet torches cast golden lights in her softly purple hair. "By the way, Mary. Is that your cake in the oven?" "Yes, Miss Bestris." The other girls snickered. "Let her alone," said the Madame. "If she wants to bake a cake, why shouldn't she?" No one answered. Miss Bestris went on around the room, discussing the girls' clothing, brushing this girl's hair, pinching that girl's cheek, chucking this one under the chin, smiling, frowning. Then finally she stepped back and nodded. "You all look quite good, I think. I can be proud of you. And now, I want you all to go to your rooms and make them extra attractive, and then try to get a little rest, so you'll all be especially beautiful when the boys come. Run along now." The girls filed out, and night continued to settle. After a while, her cigarette glowing in the gloom, the Madame waddled to her office. There three people were waiting for her. nesslike, masculine; no lace, no ribbons, no perfume, only the crisp smell of new paper, the tangy odor of ink, the sweet smell of eraser fluid. When she came in the door the three people stood up. She waved her cigarette hand with a once delicate gesture and flame light glinted dully on the gold band. "Please don't get up for me," she said, but her tone was condescending and the three visitors sat down respectfully. Miss Bestris crossed to her desk; she perched on a comer of it, leaned back, blew smoke. "You wanted to see me about your girls?" Two of the people, man and wife, looked at each other. "Yes," they said. And the other man said, "Yes." "Did you bring any pictures?" They handed her pictures, and she held them up to the overhead torch. She studied them critically, pursing and unpursing her lips in secret calculation. "This one," she said finally, holding out one of the pictures. The man and wife rustled their clothing; they smiled faintly proud at each other. The other man got up slowly, retrieved his picture, left the room without saying a word. "We can't do for little Lavada," the woman whined. "She was a late child, and we're getting old, and we thought she would be better here. It's hard to do for a growing girl when you get old. And my husband can't keep steady work, because of his health and..." "I'm sure she will be happy here," the Madame said, smiling. "Yes," the man agreed. "It's for the best. But -- you know -- well, we hate to do it. "How old is she?'... Fourteen." Miss Bestris studied the picture again. "She doesn't look over twelve." "She's fourteen." "And healthy -- " "We have doctors to see to that," the Madame said. "How much did you have in mind?" "Well," the man said, "it's been a month now since I worked, and with debts and everything... "And something to put aside for winter," his wife added. "We couldn't take less than a "And we wouldn't even think of it, but we don't have a scrap of bread in the house." "And all our bills, and winter coming on..." Miss Bestris turned the picture this way and that. The parents waited. The woman cleared her throat. The man shuffled his feet. The clock on the wall went ticktick, tick-tick. "I'll give you eight hundred and thirty dordocs" the Madame said. "Well..." Miss Bestris bent forward, holding out the picture. "Here, then. Take it. I wouldn't offer that, but I need a girl right now. One of mine ran away last week, and I'm afraid she won't be able to work for a month or so after they bring her back. I'm being generous. Eight hundred and thirty, or take your picture and don't waste my time." The man and woman stared at her. And the clock went tick-tick . "Take it. Chav."... All right," the man said. "We need the money." Miss Bestris leaned across the desk, pressed a button on her panel. Almost immediately, a door slid silently open and her lawyer entered with a white, printed, standard-form sales contract in his hand. Efficiently and rapidly, he entered the particulars. "Sign here," he said, and the parents signed. "Now," said the Madame, "if you'll bring in Lavada tomorrow at nine, I'll arrange for a doctor to be here. If his examination is satisfactory, the money will be ready." The lawyer left, and the woman said, "You understand, we wouldn't do this but for..." "I understand, perfectly," Miss Bestris said. "You don't need to worry. This is the best kind of house -- Earthmen only, you know, and they're very particular. My girls are given the best of care. I'm like a mother to them, and if they are thrifty and diligent, they'll be able to save enough money in a -- a very short time to redeem their contract as provided by law. You needn't worry at all." "Well," the woman said, "I feel better after talking to you. I feel better about the whole thing to hear you talk like that." The clock went tick-tick . "Uh," the man said, "you won't -- ? That is, our little daughter is sometimes wilful and... uh... well... Sometimes." Miss Bestris smiled. "We know how to handle girls." "You'll treat her... ?" "As I would my own child," Miss Bestris said; she took out another cigarette, lit it. "I think we'll call her -- well -- Poppy. Earthmen like to feel at home, you know." The clock went tick-tick . "Well, uh," the man said. "Uh. Thank you." Mary sat before the dressing table with her back to the mirror, while June and Adele occupied the two overstuffed chairs. Night sounds drifted up from the yellow canal, and fresh flower scents whispered on the warm air. The diaphanous glass curtains rustled at the open window. "They're too expensive," Mary said. "I'm sure Miss Bestris overcharges us for them." "Hush," said June, glancing around at the walls nervously. "Hush, Mary." She smoothed at the delicate, plutolac lace fringe above her breasts. "Imported material like this costs money. You can't get it for nothing, and we have to have the best." "I still think she charges too much." Adele shrugged delicately and crossed shapely ankles. "I think Miss Bestris must like you, or she wouldn't let you wear that dress again tonight. You ought to watch out that you don't get on the wrong side of her." Mary laughed, her amethyst eyes sparkling. "I won't care. Not after tonight." "You're not going to run away?" June asked breathlessly. "You wouldn't dare do that. You'd catch it, sure!" Mary shook her head. "Not run away." Adele leaned forward and said huskily, "You got enough money to redeem your contract?" Again Mary shook her head. "No. It's nine hundred and ten dordocs. I have only ninety-three. But I'll have enough in the morning!" She stood up and crossed to the window, looked out toward the spaceport. "How?" "Tell us, Mary!" "Tell you what?" Anne asked, coming into the room. Languidly she drew the door closed behind her and rested against it. "Tell you what?" she insisted, narrowing milky eyes. "Mary says she can redeem her contract tomorrow." Anne's wide mouth curled contemptuously. "Nonsense!" "It's not," said Mary without turning; Anne glided sensuously across the room to the bed, her tight fitting plastic rippling with her tigerish muscles. She sat down. "He said he'd take me away, this trip," Mary continued. "He'll sign off, and then we'll both get a ship and go to one of the frontier planets. Where it won't matter about -- all this." Anne laughed harshly. "My God! You believe that?" "We've both been saving our money," Mary said dreamily. "He's in love with me. He said so." "Honey, that's what they all say." Smiling, Mary turned from the window and leaned backward, stretching. "You don't know him. He's different." "They're all the same," Anne said, her mouth twisting bitterly. "They're just alike. Don't believe any of them." And Mary said, "With him, it's different. You'll see." After a moment, Anne said, "That Earthman? That what's-hisname?" Mary nodded, and Anne brushed an imaginary something off her knee. "An Earthman," Anne said. "They're the worst of all." "You don't know him, or you wouldn't say that." Adele looked away from Anne. "You love him, don't you, Mary?" "Yes." "You're a fool," Anne said. "Listen to me. Love a man? God! You'll see. After him, there'll be another and another, and -- just like Rosy -- you'll watch 'em leave you and laugh at you until finally you're hurt so bad you don't think you can stand being hurt any more, and then along comes another one, and it starts all over again, and then one night you take a razor blade and go to the sink and stick out your throat and..." "No! No! You're wrong! He's not like the rest!" Anne leaned back carelessly, resting, propped on one hand. "See. You know I'm right, already." "You're not!" Anne shrugged. "Honey, tell me that tomorrow night." "I better go take my cake oqt," Mary said. She fled the room in a swirl of shimmering glastic. Anne sneered, "I don't see why Miss Bestris puts up with her the way she does." "You're jealous," June said quietly. Anne did not answer. "Mary's decent," Adele said. "Maybe that's why. She's from the sticks, and her parents still come to see her on visiting days, and there's something about her so -- so innocent. Maybe that's why Miss Bestris likes her." June said, "I think she's better than the rest of us. I think Miss Bestris feels sorry for her in a way." "Don't make me laugh," Anne said, facing June. "The only one that'll ever feel sorry for her is herself!" "You shouldn't have talked like that to her!" June snapped. "Why don't you let her alone? She'll feel bad enough without you helping!" Anne rolled over on the bed and stared up at the ceiling. June took a helox lamp from her drawer and started to bake her hair darker. Those Earthmen were so funny about colors. In the kitchen, Mary took die cake out of the oven. It was steamy and light and fluffy, and it smelled sweet and warm. She set it on the table and mixed a two-minute green frosting which she spread, carefully, over the cake. She patted here and there with the spatula and stood back, her eyes proud and serious. She hummed a little tune under her breath as she scrubbed the pots and pans. Her hands moved in practiced rhythm, and the water splashed and gurgled. When the kitchen was again spotless, she looked once more at the cake, and then, turning out the light, she went back to her room. Anne and Adele had left, but June was sitting quietly in the dusky moonlight. Her white dress seemed vaguely luminous. Laughing, Mary flicked on the light. "It's a wonderful cake," she said. "The best one I ever made. Just the way it should be." "I wouldn't feel too bad, Mary, if he doesn't come to eat it," June said. "I don't want to sound like Anne, but there was a lot of sense in what she said." "It's just like a real wedding cake." She hummed the snatch of Martian tune. "Like in the telepapers." She laughed with her eyes. "The bridegroom takes the silver knife and cuts two large pieces of the cake while the bride, dressed in filament coral, stands at his right hand. She carries a bouquet of -- Anne just likes to be mean!" June frowned. Mary crossed to the dressing table. She studied her face in the mirror. It was heart shaped, elfin; her purple hair was a riot of curls, and her eyes were amethyst and gold. She smiled at herself. "I want to look as pretty as I can tonight." She twisted around. "You don't think he'll come either, do you?" "I -- no, Mary." Mary looked back at the mirror. "He likes our canal blossom perfume." She dabbed some of it on her ear lobes. "I like it best, too." June stood up, crossed to the musikon, found a slow five-toned waltz. She turned the music very low, and left the color mixer dim enough so that only the faintest ghosts projected hues moved on walls and ceiling. Mary continued to stare into the mirror. "But he will come. I know it." June said nothing. "Don't you see. I just know he'll come." June crossed back to her seat. Mary turned from the mirror. "I'm sure he will. He's -- I mean..." June smiled wanly. "Well, he will! You'll see!" June said, "Even if it is an old dress, you look very nice in it." "I've been learning his language. I can say 'thank you' and 'yes' and 'no' and 'I love you' and all kinds of things in it. He gave me a book, and I've been studying. I want to be able really to talk with him. We've got a lot to talk about. I want to find out about his parents, and what he likes for supper and what kind of music he likes to hear, and -- and all sorts of things. I want to find out all about his planet, and..." "Yes," June said wearily, "I know." The music played on. The moving lights on the walls were like colored reflections from a sunlit river. "He may be a little late tonight ; he has a lot to do, first. But he'll be here." Buzzzzz... It was the red button; it blinked on and off. "Visitors," June said. "Look -- " Mary said. "Look, June. I'm not half ready yet. Look. Tell Miss Bestris I'll be down a little late. Tell her I have a special boy, and it'll be all right. He wants me to wait for him." June was on her feet... All right. You'd better not wait too long!" "I won't." After June was gone, Mary returned to the task of making her face pretty, but after a moment, she turned from the mirror, leaned back, and tried to relax. Underneath her dress, her heart was pounding. The warm air carried sounds of the night creatures. One of the great canal insects, screeching, flapped by the window. The tiny third moon crept up over the horizon, and the buildings cast triple shadows. Buzzz. Buzzzz . Still Mary waited. Buzzz . Buzzzz. Buzzzzzz... She was afraid to wait any longer. But by now she was sure that he would be down stairs. There was a last-minute flurry of combing and primping, and then she rustled out of the room, her head erect, her eyes shining. gan threw shimmering, prismatic beams on the ceiling. Beneath it, stiff, embarrassed spacemen, mostly officers dressed in parade uniforms, chatted in space-pidgin with the laughing, rainbow-haired girls. Miss Bestris sat in one corner, her eyes roving the room: settling here for a second, there for a second, checking, approving, disapproving, silently. Occasionally she would smile or nod at one of the girls or one of the spacemen, and once she frowned ever so slightly and shook her head. Anne was reclining on a couch, eating a golden Martian apple, listening to a second mate; she played with a lock of his hair and smiled her wide smile. June, angelic, sat primly in a straight-backed chair, the captain at her feet, a boyish, space-pale Earthman, drew embarrassed circles on the carpet with his index finger. In the next room, three couples were dancing to the slow music of an Earth orchestra. An inner door opened, and a uniformed native sheriff stepped in, a crisp, military figure. "Miss Bestris?" She stood up. "Yes?" The Earthmen fell silent, waiting. "We think we have your runaway." He turned to the door. "Bring her in." Two more sheriffs entered, and between them, there was a young, slender girl. Her face was gaunt and tear-stained. Her body trembled. She looked at the Madame fearfully. "You idiots!" Miss Bestris screamed. "Get her out of here! You'll ruin my party! Take her out!" The two men removed the girl. To the remaining sheriff, Miss Bestris said, "Damn you, if you ever do anything like that again, I'll... I'll..." "I'm sorry, Madame. But we wanted immediate identification. Would you want us to hold the wrong girl?" "That's her, all right! Now, get out! Wait for me in my office." When they were gone Miss Bestris turned to the silent room. In quite passable Esperanto she said, "I -- am sorry. A misunderstanding. I assure you, nothing. Go on with the party, and I'll see what I can do for the poor girl." She stood up and in her own language said, "Lively, girls! Smile! You, Rita, hurry and serve tea!" She made her exit. The spacemen grumbled among themselves, coughed uneasily, watched the closed door through which the Madame had gone. Listening, they could hear only a muted mumble of sing-song sounds in several voices. With determined animation, the girls moved about, smiled, chatted. Rita came in, wheeling the tea tray, and the girls converged on it, each trying to be the first to serve her escort. The tea was the Martian stuff, concocted of a kind of local hemp. The Earthmen found it harsh and bitter to the taste, but gentle on the soul. Anne had filled two cups and returned to the second mate when she caught sight of Mary coming down the stairs. On the lowest step, Mary stood for a long time; her eyes eagerly searched the crowd. Slowly a puzzled, hurt look came over her face. June came to her side after a little while. "Isn't he here?" "No. Not yet." "I'm sorry," June said, touching Mary's arm lightly. "It's all right. It's early yet. I'll just sit down by Miss Bestris chair and wait for him." She turned from June and went to the chair. Before she could sit down, a space corporal came over, bowed, tried to take her hand. She shook her head. He smiled twistedly and walked stiffly away. Another man smiled at her. She shook her head slowly. Someone came in the front door, and she leaned forward. Then she slumped back limply. She heard a tinkly laugh. She looked in its direction. She met Anne's eyes, bright and amused. Just then Miss Bestris came in, her eyes angry and her cheeks flushed. She strode across the room. "Well," she said. "I'm glad to see you finally came down." She sank heavily into her chair. "(Present's back. They just brought her in. The idiots came right in here with her. I'll bet I lost half-a-dozen customers. These Earthmen are sensitive about such things." Mary was still staring at the door; Miss Bestris looked down at her. "Well, what are you sitting here for?" "Please, Miss Bestris. I'm waiting for my special boy friend tonight." She snorted and looked away. "Why isn't he here?" "He will be." "He'd better. I'll let you wait another -- half an hour. That's all." "Thank you, Miss Bestris. You're very kind to me." "I indulge you more than I ought to, child," she said. "More than is good for you, if the truth were known." A man came in; Mary stiffened and then relaxed. The mutter of voices blended into a steady hum. More couples were dancing. Miss Bestris moved around the room. The music was tinny. Another man came in. "Your time's up," the Madame told Mary. "Please, let me just wait for another few minutes." Miss Bestris fixed her lips grimly. "I've had enough nonsense for tonight. You heard me!" "Please!" "You heard what I said." "Miss Bestris, I couldn't. Not tonight. Honest, I couldn't. If I had to talk to anybody, I'd break down and cry. He'll... come. I know he will." Miss Bestris whirled on her. "Listen, you little -- " But she stopped, suddenly. "All right," she said, gritting her teeth. "I can't afford another scene tonight. But you'll be sorry for this." Miss Bestris stormily looked away. The dancers danced ; the music swelled louder. Gradually, deliberately, the lights were waning. "Haven't I always been good to you, Mary?" the Madame asked. "Yes." "Then like an obedient girl, do as I say. If he hasn't come by now, he just won't. He's gone to some other house." "No!" Mary said doggedly. "Just remember, tomorrow, how you deliberately disobeyed me. Your silly emotions are costing me money, and that's one thing I simply won't stand for." "He'll come." Mary said. "You won't lose money." Couples sat side by side, laughing, talking in whispers. Occasionally there were giggles. The room began to empty slowly. The lights continued to dim until the rooms were gloomy. Even the shifting shades of the color organ were no more than a faint lambence. Anne, laughing, helped her second mate to his feet. "I'll give you one more chance," Miss Bestris said. "The next man that comes in..." "No! I just couldn't! Not tonight!" A few more customers drifted in. Then even the stragglers stopped coming. It was very late. "He's deserted you; you see that now?" Madame Bestris sneered. Mary stood up. There were tears in her eyes. "You can't -- you don't -- know -- how I feel," she choked. "You don't care!" She turned and ran up the stairs, crying. Several Earthmen, still in the big room, turned to watch. The torches were misty twinkles now. The last couples climbed the stairs and then Miss Bestris, too, went to bed. town awoke; commerce began. At seven, Miss Bestris lay in bed frowning, considering the events of the previous evening. But she was not so annoyed that she forgot to call a doctor on the teleview and arrange for him to come at nine to give a physical examination. Her bulk out of bed, she dressed and went to the kitchen to brew a pot of hemp tea. The cleaning maid, moving about in the next room, heard Miss Bestris call sharply: "Flavia! Come in here!" Flavia appeared with a dust rag in her hand. "Did you cut this cake?" "No, ma'am." Miss Bestris glowered. "That little idiot! She must have slipped down here after we were all asleep and sat here and cried her silly little eyes out! If she thinks she can pull that love-sick act on me she'll soon find out different. Am I supposed to put up with having her moon over every space tramp that comes in? Why, I've taken more from her -- !" "Yes, ma'am." Miss Bestris waddled to the stairs, climbed them determinedly. At Mary's door she stopped and twisted the knob. Locked! Miss Bestris hammered. "Open up, Mary!" The door rattled under her hand. "Open that door at once!" No answer. Miss Bestris pounded harder. "Open up, I say!" Anne sauntered into the hall, her dressing gown swishing. "She really made you look the fool last night, didn't she?" Anne said lazily. "You -- you slut! Mind your own business." Anne smiled and shrugged. "Open the door, Mary! Do you hear me! Open it!" "Maybe she killed herself," Anne said. "It has happened." "My God! No... She wouldn't dare. You think she would?" Anne shrugged again. "They do funny things sometimes." Miss Bestris' face was red. "Run down and get my keys. In my desk. You know where they are." Then, "For God's sake , hurry!" While she waited Miss Bestris rattled the door, pleading and cursing. Finally Anne returned. Miss Bestris snatched the key with a shaking hand. She hurled the door open and burst inside. "See here, you little -- !" She stopped. The room was empty. On the neatly made bed reposed a little stack of money. When Miss Bestris got around to counting it, she found that it contained exactly nine hundred and ten dordocs . as you've ever seen in a science fiction magazine. For instance: about the Central Investigation Bureau and the new World Government of the #nd Century; there's a short classic, by curl your hair; also top-notch stories by Mark Clifton and Alex Apostolides, Edward W. Ludwig, H. B. Fyfe and others. There's a song that says " it's later than you think" and it is perhaps lamentable that someone didn't sing it for Henry that beautiful morning... Pipe of Peace By. James McKimmey, Jr. His wife, a short thin woman with worried eyes, watched him while he sat before the kitchen table. He was thin, too, like his wife, but tall and tough-skinned. His face, with its leather look was immobile. "Why?" asked his wife. "Good reasons," the farmer said. He poured yellow cream into a cup of coffee. He let the cup sit on the table. "Henry?" said the woman, as though she were really speaking to someone else. She walked around the kitchen in quick aimless bird steps. "My right," said Henry. He lifted his cup, finally, tasting. "We'll starve." crazy," she said, as though it were "Not likely. Not until everybody a half-question, a half-pronounceelse does, anyway." ment. The woman circled the room and The farmer was relaxing now, came back to her husband. Her leaning back in his chair. "Might eyes winked, and there were lines have. Might have, at that." between them. Her fingers clutched "Why?" she asked, the edge of the table. "You've gone The farmer turned his coffee cup carefully. "Thing to do, is all. Each man in his own turn. This is my turn." The woman watched him for a long time, then she sat down on a chair beside the table. The quick, nervous movement was gone out of her, and she sat like a frozen sparrow. The farmer looked up and grinned. "Feels good. Just to sit here. Does well for the back and the arms. Been working too hard." "Henry," the woman said. The farmer tasted his coffee again. He put the cup on the table and leaned back, tapping his browned fingers. "Just in time, I'd say. Waited any longer, it wouldn't have done any good. Another few years, a farmer wouldn't mean anything." The woman watched him, her eyes frightened as though he might suddenly gnash his teeth or leap in the air. "Pretty soon," the farmer said, "they'd have it all mechanical. Couldn't stop anything. Now," he said, smiling at his wife, "we can stop it all." "Henry, go out to the fields," the woman said. "No," Henry said, standing, stretching his thin, hard body. "I won't go out to the fields. Neither will August Brown nor Clyde Briggs nor Alfred Swanson. None of us. Anywhere. Not until the food's been stopped long enough for people to wake up." The farmer looked out of the kitchen window, beyond his tractor and the cow bam and the windmill. He looked at rows of strong com, shivering their soft silk in the morning breeze. "We'll stop the corn. Stop the wheat. Stop the cattle, the hogs, the chickens." "You can't." "I can't. But al! of us together can." "No sense," the woman said, wagging her head. "No sense. "It's sense, all right. Best sense we've ever had. Can't use an army with no stomach. Old as the earth. Can't fight without food. Takes food to run a war. "You'll starve the two of us, that's all you'll do. Nobody else will stop work." The farmer turned to his wife. "Yes, they will. Everywhere a farmer is the same. He works the land. He reads the papers. He votes. He listens to the radio. He watches the television. Mostly, he works the land. Alone, with his own thoughts and ideas. He isn't any different in Maine than he is in Oregon. We've all stopped work. Now. This mom  #) mg. "How about those across the ocean? Are they stopping, too? They're not going to feed up their soldiers? To kill us if we don't starve first? To -- " "They stopped, too. A farmer is a farmer. Like a leaf on a tree. No matter on what tree in what country on whose land. A leaf is a leaf. A farmer's the same. A farmer is a farmer." "It won't work," the woman said dully. "Yes, it will." "They'll make you work." "How? It's our own property." "They'll take it away from you." "Who'll work it then?" The woman rocked in her chair, her mouth quivering. "They'll get somebody." The farmer shook his head. "Too many people doing other things, like making shells and guns, like sitting in fox-holes or flying planes." The woman sat rocking, her hands together in her lap. "It won't work," she repeated. "It'll work," said the farmer. "Right now , it'll work. Yes, we've got milkers and shuckers, and we've got hatchers for the chickens. We've got tractors and combines and thrashing machines. They're all mechanical, all right. But we don't have mechanical farmers, yet. The pumps, the tractors, the milkers don't work by themselves. In time, maybe. Not now. We're still ahead of them on that. It'll work." "Go out to the fields, Henry," his wife said, her voice like the sound of a worn phonograph record. "No," the farmer said, taking a pipe from his overalls. "I think instead, I'll just sit in the sun and watch the corn. Watch the birds on top of the bam, maybe. I'll fill my pipe and sit there and smoke and watch. And when I get sleepy, I'll sleep. After while I might go see August Brown or Clyde Briggs or maybe Alfred Swanson. We'll sit and talk, about pleasant things, peaceful things. We'll wait." The farmer put the pipe between his teeth and walked to the door. He put on his straw hat, buttoned the sleeves of his blue shirt and stepped outside. His wife sat at the table, staring at nothing in the room. The farmer walked across the barnyard, listening to the sound of the chickens and the sound of the breeze going through the com. Near the bam, he sat upon an old tree stump and filled his pipe with tobacco. He lit the pipe, cupping his hands, and sat there, smoking, the smoke spiraling up into the bright warm air. He took his pipe from his teeth and looked at it. "Pipe of peace," he said, laughing inside himself. The breeze was soft and the sun warm on his back. He sat there, smoking, feeling the quiet of the morning, the peace of the great sky above. He had no time to stand or to take his pipe from his mouth, when the two men crossed the yard and lifted him up by the arms. He dropped the pipe, while he was dragged past the house, to the road beyond. He had no time to yell or scream, before his hat was swept from his head, the overalls and the blue shirt stripped from his body. He had not even thought about what it was that had happened, before he was thrust inside a white truck, with strong steel sides and with grilled windows like those of a cell. He was just sitting there, in the truck, without his clothes, speeding away with August Brown and Clyde Briggs and Alfred Swanson. upon the earth. Chickens clucked in their pens, while birds fluttered about the top of the bam. A pig squealed. The corn rustled. ( Continued on page #I ) mm  A xfwviV ; A He was a reporter from Venus with an assignment on Earth. He got his story but, against orders, he fell in love -- and therein lies this story. The Huddlers Illustrated by Ernie Barth them, where I come from, huddlers. Damnedest thing to see from any distance, the way they huddle. They had one place, encrusting the shore line for miles on one of the land bodies they called the Eastern Seaboard. A coagulation in this They called it New York, and it was bigger than most of the others, but typical. It wasn't bad enough living side by side; the things built mounds and lived one above the other. Apartments they called them. What monstrosities they were. We couldn't figure this huddling, at first. All our attention since Akers' first penetration into space had been directed another way in the galaxy, and though I'll grant you unified and universal concentration may be considered unwise in some areas, it's been our greatest strength. It's brought us rather rapidly to the front, I'm sure you'll agree, and we're not the oldest planet, by a damned sight. Well, by the time we got to the huddlers, Akers was dead and Murten was just an old man with vacant eyes. Jars was handling the Department, though you might say Deering ran it, being closer to most of the gang. Jars was always so cold ; nobody ever got to know him really well. They divided on the huddling. Fear, Jars said, and love, Deering said, but who could say for sure? As Deering said to me, "What could they fear? They've got everything they need, everything but knowledge and their better specimens are getting closer to that, every day." In the laboratory, Deering said this, and how did we know old Jars was in a corner, breaking down a spirigel? "They fear each other," Jars said, as though it was an official announcement, as though any fact is permanent. "And they fear nature. It's the most fear ridden colony of bipeds a sane mind could imagine." Deering looked at me, and winked. Jars went back to the spirigel. Deering said, "Love, love, love. All they sing about, all they write about, all they talk about, love, love, love." Jars was just tracing a z line on the spirigel and he put down his legort at that. "Rather superficial thinking, from a scientist," he said quietly. "Surface manifestations to be considered as indicative. Oral and verbal camouflage to be accepted as valid. Deering, old thing, please -- " Deering shrugged. "So I am -- what do they call it, a Pollyanna. Isn't that a pretty word? So, I'm a Pollyanna." "I rather think that describes you partially," Jars said, "and with this particular planet we're discussing, it can be a dangerous attitude." "So?" Deering said, nudging me. "And could I ask why?" "Ask it." "I ask." "You've recorded the state of their development. They have, among other things, achieved nuclear fission." "So? In the fourth grade we are teaching nuclear fission." "We are a scientific people. They haven't been, until very, very recently. You have noted, I hope, their first extensive use of this new discovery?" "Hero -- Helo -- " Deering shrugged. "My memory." "Hiroshima," Jars supplied. "Love -- , my friend?" "I have noted it," Deering said. "We spoke, a while ago, of surface manifestations." "We shall continue to. You have witnessed the mechanical excellence of their machines, in some ways beyond ours, because of their greater element wealth. You have noted the increased concentration of their better minds, their scientific minds. How long do you think it will be, friend, before they are ready for us?" "Ready, ready -- ? In what way, ready?" "The only way they know, the only thing they seem to have time for -- ready for war." "War -- ," Deering said, and sighed. "Oh, Jars, they will be beyond war, certainly, before they are cognizant of us. They are no tribe of incompetents; they grow each day." "They -- ?" Jars' smile was cynical. "Their scientists grow. Are their scientists in command, sir?" That "sir" had been unnecessary; Jars was the senior mind, here. Deering didn't miss it, and he flushed. Jars said softly, "I apologize. It was not a thing to say. I have spent too much time in the study of these -- monsters." They had gone to school, together, those two, and the bond was there and the respect, but they were different, mentally, and each knew it. "You have a sharp tongue," Deering said, "but a sharper mind. I believe I can stand it." He smiled. "Love, fear, hate -- what does it matter to us, except as phenomena?" "It matters to us, believe me, please. It concerns us very much, Am." When Jars got to first names, he was emotionally wrought. I looked at him in surprise. And so did Deering. We weren't ever going to warm up to him, but he was our best mind and there wasn't a man in the department who didn't appreciate that. We stared at him, and he sat down on the high bench near the Maling converters. He looked old and he was tired, we could see. "Evil," he said quietly. "Fear, hate, evil -- which of the three is the father and which are the sons? I suppose fear is the father." "I'd always thought so," Deering said, "though my education was almost completely confined to the technical. I'm rather skimpy on the humanities." "And I," Jars said, and now looked at me. "But not you, Werig " "I don't know them, sir," I said. "Surface manifestations, as we've said before, today. It would need a closer study. Their huddling is what intrigues me the most." One of the rare smiles came to Jars' lined face as he looked at Deering. "Huddling, the lad says. If you don't say it, I won't, Arn." Deering smiled in return. "We'll change the routine, this time; you say 'love' and I'll say 'fear. But seriously, Jars, you fear these -- people?" "I fear them," Jars said. "Scientifically, perhaps, they are tyros, but mechanically they are not. They have discovered forces and developed machines which they do not understand, and yet, have achieved efficiency with them. I fear any monster that powerful even though it is blind." "And you think there is a possibility of their becoming -- aware of us within any determinable time?" "I do. You will remember how quickly the Algreans developed, once they achieved unity? You will remember how quickly they became a threat?" "Yes," Deering said quietly, "and I have been trying a long time to forget what we did to that planetoid." "It was necessary for survival," Jars said simply. "I think, by any standards, we would be the ones chosen to survive." Deering's smile was cynical. "At least, by our standards. We had a closer communication with them. About the huddlers, we know only what we convert from their stronger video broadcasts. It is a device they seem to use more for entertainment than for information." Jars nodded, and stood up. "And love is their major entertainment, perhaps. Love and war. But we gabble. I had a plan in mind, a plan to put before the assembly." was part of it. The humanities had been no major with me, but they didn't want a scholar, they wanted a reporter, anyway. Or perhaps I could be called a recorder. Jars talked and the assembly listened. They always do, when Jars talks. And I was their boy, and went into a concentrated and complete briefing. They put me under the lucidate and poured it to me, night and day, all the information we had on the huddlers and all the theories based on that information. They put me into a space sphere, and said "good luck" and do our people proud, young man. Oh, yes. And don't fall in love. Oh, no. They'd pick me up, again, when they got a signal. They didn't expect to wait too long for that, I guess, at the time. The sphere was a relic of the Algrean business, and Algrea hadn't been this much of a trip. But Mechanics said it would do, and it did. I landed in the Pacific, about three-quarters of a mile off the Santa Monica yacht basin, and let the sphere float north for a while until I reached a secluded spot. In a small curve of the shore line, a few miles above Santa Monica, I beached her, and opened the dissolving cocks. I watched her melt into the surging water, and turned to face the red and green light almost immediately overhead. I walked up from the beach to the road, not even knowing what they looked like. Their evolution should have matched ours, but who could be sure? For all I knew, I might be a freak to them. I should have thought of that before dissolving the ship. Above, the light changed from red to green and across the street, I saw a sign. This was Sunset Boulevard, and the Pacific Coast Highway. This was open country, but Los Angeles. Along the Coast Highway, a pair of lights were bearing down on me, and they seemed to waver, as though the machine were under imperfect control. I moved back, out of the way, and the light overhead turned to red. The car stopped about even with me, its motor running. I couldn't see the occupants nor the driver. The light changed, the car jerked, and the motor stopped. "Damn," somebody said. It was a female voice. There was a grinding noise, and another damn, and then a head appeared through the open window on my side of the road. It was a blond head, and what I could see of the face looked attractive. "Are you sober?" she asked. "Not always," I answered. "Some times I'm quite cheerful. But I'm some distance from home, and have nothing to be cheerful about, at the moment." "Try not to be a Cerf," she said angrily. "What I mean is, are you -- have you been drinking?" "Not recently, though I could use some water." I could see her face more clearly now, and it was like the faces of our women, only prettier than most, I thought. "Look," she said, "Pm drunk. Could you drive this thing? Could you drive me home?" "I'd be glad to," I answered, "if you will tell me where you live." She gave me an address on Sunset, and this was Sunset, this lateral street, ending at the ocean. So, quite obviously, it was an address I could find. I went over to climb in behind the wheel. There were two smells in that pretty car with the canvas top. One smell was of gasoline, the other was of alcohol. "There's obviously alcohol in the gasoline," I said, "though that shouldn't prevent it from igniting." "A funny, funny man," she said. "Keep the dialogue to a minimum, will you, Bogart? Fm not exactly sharp, right now." I depressed the starter button, and the motor caught. I swung left onto Sunset, and started up the hill. The car was clearly a recent model, but Jars had been wrong about the mechanical excellence of these huddlers. The machine simply had no life, no zest. around two curves, climbing all the while, past some huddled houses on the left, and the whole shining sea spread out on the right. The woman said, "If you know a place where the coffee is drinkable, stop." "I have no money," I said. Diamonds I had, a bagful of them, for AVe knew that huddlers treasured diamonds. But no money. "I've got money," she said. "I've got a hell of a lot more money than I have sense. Have you ever been in love, Bogart?" "Never," I said. We were coming into a small huddled area, now. A sign read. Pacific Palisades . "I have," she said. "I still am. Isn't it a miserable rotten world?" "This one?" I asked, and then said quickly, "I mean -- this part of it?" "Any part of it," she said. "I've seen most of it, and any part where there's men is bad, Bogart." "My name," I told her, "is not Bogart. My name is Fred Werig." "A pleasure, Fred," she said. "My name is Jean Decker. And I'm beginning to feel better." "It couldn't be my company," I said, "so it must be the air. I haven't seen any coffee places that are open." I caught a flare of light from the comer of my eye, and turned to see her applying flame to something in her mouth. I remembered from our history; she was smoking. It was a habit long dead where I came from. And then I remembered what she'd said about being drunk, and knew that, too, as one of our long disused vices. What was it Akers had said about 'being directed'? A theory, but discredited now, since our scientific advance. But this almost parallels evolution? "Cigarette?" she said, and I said, "No, thanks. I -- don't smoke." "You're the only thing in Los Angeles that doesn't," she said bitterly. "Where are you from, Fred?" "New York," I said. "Where are you from, Jean?" "Believe it or not, I was bom here," she said. "Fm one of the three people in this town who was Bom here." "It's a big town, isn't it?" I said. "Less huddled than the others." "Huddled," she said, and laughed. "Huddled. I like that. They huddle, all right, and not just the football teams. The gregarious instinct, Freddy boy." "Well, yes," I agreed, "but why, Jean? Why haven't they outgrown it? Is it -- fear?" "You would have to ask somebody bright," she said. "When you get to Bundy, turn over toward Wilshire. We'll find an eating place that's open." "You tell me when I get to Bundy," I said. "I'm not exactly familiar with this part of town." She told me, and we got to Wilshire, eventually, and on Wilshire there were many eating places. We went into one; it was too cold to eat outside. And it was bright in there, and I got my first really clear look at the face and figure of Jean Decker. Well, it was ridiculous, the attraction that seemed to emanate from her. It actually made me weak. And she was staring at me, too. backed benches, and she sat down. I sat across from her. "I don't have a tailor," I said. "Your lips are so red, Jean." She frowned. "Slowly, sailor." Then a waitress was there, and I saw how red her lips were, too, and I realized it was another of the old vices I'd forgotten, cosmetics. "Just coffee, for me, black," Jean said. "Golden boy over there will have a beef barbecue, probably, won't you, Fred?" "I guess," I said. "And some milk, cow's milk." Jean laughed. "It's my money. Have canary milk." "Not tonight," I said. The waitress went away, and there was a noticeable period of silence. Jean was tracing some design on the table top with her index finger. Her nails, too, were painted, I saw. I liked the effect of that. She looked up, and faced me gravely, "Fred, you're a very at"If you're hungry," she said finally, "get a sandwich. You won't find me stingy... What in the world is that material in that suit, Fred?" "I don't know," I said. "You are beautiful, Jean." She smiled. "Well, thanks. You can have a piece of pie, too, for that. That certainly is a fine weave in that material. What did your tailor call it?" We were next to a sort of alcove, furnished with a table and two hightractive gent, which you undoubtedly know. Are you connected with pictures?" I shook my head. "Just a traveler, a tourist." She said, "Oh" and went back to tracing the design. I thought her finger trembled. A very dim smile on her face, and she didn't look away from the table top. "You've been -- picked up before, undoubtedly." "No. What kind of talk is this, Jean?" Now, she looked up. "Crazy talk. You're no New Yorker, Freddy lad. You're a Middle Westerner; you can't fool me. Fresh from the farm and craving cow's milk." "I never saw a cow in my life," I told her truthfully, "though I've heard about them. What makes you think I'm from a farm?" "Your freshness, your complexion and -- everything about you." The waitress brought our food, then, and I didn't answer. I tried to keep my eyes away from Jean as I ate; I had a mission, here, and no time for attachments beyond the casual. I was sure, even then, that loving Jean Decker would never qualify as casual. She drank her coffee and smoked; I ate. She asked, "Where are you staying, in town, Fred? I'm sober enough to drive, now." "I'll get public transportation," I said. "You get home, and to bed." She laughed. "Public transportation? Freddy, you don't know this town. There isn't any. Did you just get here, tonight?" I looked at her, and nodded. "On the bum?" she said quietly. "I -- suppose," I said honestly, "though the word has connotations which don't describe me." I put my hand in my jacket pocket and fumbled in the open bag for one of the smaller diamonds. I brought one out about the size of my little finger nail, and placed it on the table. All the light in the room seemed to be suddenly imprisoned there. She stared at it, and up at me. "Fred -- for heaven's sake -- that's not -- real, is it?" I nodded. "But -- it -- " She glanced from the diamond to me, her mouth partially open. "Fred, what kind of monstrous gag is this? God, I thought I'd seen everything, growing up in this town. Fred -- " "I'd like to sell it," I said. "You, Jean, are my only friend in this town. Could you help me arrange for its sale?" She was looking at me with wonder now, studying me. "Hot?" she asked. "Hot -- ?" "Stolen -- you know what I mean." "Stolen? Jean, you didn't mean to accuse me of that." Skepticism was ugly on her lovely face. "Fred, what's your angle? You step out of the darkness like some man from Mars in a strange suit, with no money, but a diamond that must be worth -- " "We'll learn what it's worth," I said. "Mars isn't inhabited, Jean. Don't you trust me? Have I done anything to cause you to distrust me?" "Nothing," she said. "Do you distrust all men, Jean?" "No. Just the ones I've met. Oh, baby, and I thought you were a farmer." She was crushing out her cigarette. "You haven't a place to stay, but I've got a guest house, and you'll stay there, tonight. You aren't stepping back into the darkness, tonight, Fred Werig. You, I want to know about." The words held a threat, but not her meaning, I was sure. And what better way to orient myself than in the home of a friend? Massive, in an architecture I'd assumed was confined to the southeastern United States. Two-story place, with huge, two-story pillars and a house-wide front porch, the great lawn studded with giant trees. And she lived there alone, excepting for the servants. She was no huddler, and I told her that. "Dad owned a lot of property in this town," she said. "He was a great believer in the future of this town." At the time I didn't understand what that had to do with her lack of huddling. The guest house was small, but very comfortable, a place of three bedrooms and two baths and a square living room with a natural stone fireplace. I had my first night of sleep on this planet, and slept very well. I woke to a cloudy morning, and the sound of someone knocking on the front door. It was a servant, and she said, "Miss Decker sent me to inform you that breakfast will be ready any time you want it, sir. We are eating inside, this morning, because of the cold." "I'll be there, soon, thank you," I said, and she went away. Showering, I was thinking of Akers for some reason and his directed theory and what was that other theory he'd had? Oh, yes, the twin planets. Senile, he was, by that time and not much listened to, but a mind like that? And who had he been associated with at that time? It was before my birth, but I'd read about it, long ago. The Visitor, Akers had called this man. The Earth man who had come to Venus. And what had his name been? Beer -- ? Beers -- ? No, but like that -- and it came. Ambrose Bierce. Jean wore a light green robe, for breakfast, and it was difficult for me to take my eyes away from her. "I'm not usually this informal at mixed breakfasts," she told me, smiling, "but I thought it might warm up enough for a swim a little later." She threw the robe aside, and I saw she was wearing a scanty garment beneath it. Evidently the huddlers didn't swim naked, and I wondered at a moral code that sanctioned drinking alcohol but was ashamed of the human body. I was glad the house had been cold when I answered the maid's summons, for I had worn a robe I'd found there. Fruit juice and wheat cakes and sausage and toast and jelly and eggs and milk. We ate in a small room, off a larger dining room, a small room whose walls were glass on two sides. "It's too old a house to modernize completely," Jean told me. "I grew up in this house." "You don't -- work, Jean?" "No. Should I?" "Work or study. Life must be very dull if you don't do one of those." "You might have a point there," she said. "I tried everything from the movies to sculpture. I wasn't very good at anything. What do you do, Fred?" "I'm a perpetual guest," I said lightly. "Do you read much, Jean?" "Too much, though nothing very heavy, I grant you." "Have you ever read about a man named Ambrose Bierce?" "I've read everything he ever wrote. Why did you ask that, Fred?" "I -- heard about him. I wondered who he was." "Where did you hear about him, Fred? In Mexico?" "No. I don't remember where I heard about him." "He disappeared," she said quietly, "some time right before the first world war. I've forgotten the exact year. I think it was #." Before the war, before the "first" war... And I thought of Jars' wife, who had come to us just before this last planetary war -- the "second" world war. And what was his pet name for her? Guest, he called her, and joked about her coming from another world. But didn't Jars defend the discredited late-in-life theories of Akers? I tried to remember the name of Jars' wife, and then it came. I asked, "And Amelia Earhart?" Jean's voice was rough. "July #nd, #. I guess I'll never forget that, when my god died. What are you trying to say? Is it some new damned cult you're promoting, Fred?" "You called her a god. Why, Jean?" "I don't know. I was only thirteen when she died. But she was so clean, so -- so free and windswept, so -- oh, what the spirit of America should be -- and isn't." I looked up to see tears in her eyes. Why was she moved? This girl who certainly knew corruption, this worldly, lovely girl. I smiled at her. She wiped the tears with the back of her hand. "Fred, you are the strangest -- I know this town's a zoo, but you, Fred -- " I continued to smile at her. "I'm just a guy trying to learn. May I repeat something I said last night? You're beautiful, Jean." "You're no three-headed calf, yourself," she said. Twin planets and parallel evolution... Parallel destiny? Not with a third planetary war shaping up here. Three major wars in less than fifty years. Why, why, why... She said, "Thinking, again? You do a lot of thinking, don't you?" "I have to think of something besides you," I told her honestly. "I can't afford to fall in love with you, Jean. I've too many places to go and too many things to see." She just stared at me. It must have been a full minute before she said, "Well, I'll be damned." After breakfast, it was still cold, and she said, "There'll be no swim this morning, I see. If you want to get an appraisal on that diamond, Fred, I'll phone one of our jewelers to come out." "I'd appreciate that," I said. "Would it be all right if I took these newspapers back to my room, now?" "Just dandy," she said. "Sorry to be boring you." "You're not," I told her earnestly. "Believe me, you're not." Nowhere was it stated, but a glance at the front pages showed they were on opposite sides of the political fence. On my planet, we keep the editorial opinion in the editorial columns. Not so with these. The wire services were impartial and the accounts in both papers identical. That was as far as the similarities went. Reading the other accounts was like living in two worlds. An informed people will always be free. Well, perhaps these weren't typical. I was to see papers a lot worse than these before long. I was just starting the want ads when the knock came at the door. It was the maid, again; the jeweler was at the house. A small man, suave and dark, with the manners of a diplomat, fawning like a puppy. It was a perfect stone, he decided. He had, he was sure, a customer who would be interested. Would I accept eight thousand dollars for it? I said I would, and he left. We were in the living room, and Jean stood near the tall front windows. She had changed to a suit of some soft blue material. "As soon as I get the money," I said, "we're going out for some fun, aren't we? I owe you for a beef barbecue." "You don't owe me anything," she said. She didn't look at me. "You'll get over him," I said. "Him -- ?" He turned to look at me curiously. "That man you're in love with, that man you told me about last night." "Oh," she said. "Oh. I was drunk last night, Fred. I'm not in love." Silence. That attraction of hers pulling at me like some localized gravity, silence, and the beating of my heart. Silence, my hands trembling, my knees aching. "I'd like to see some fights," I said. "Would you like to?" She frowned. "Not particularly." She stared at me, shook her head, and looked away. "Well," I said, "I haven't finished the want ads." "Of course," she said. "Get right back to them, Freddy. You never know when you'll find a bargain." They weren't very interesting. I kept seeing her standing next to the window, looking unhappy, frustrated, somehow. I kept seeing the soft fabric of the suit clinging to her beautiful body and the proud grace of her posture. I went back to the house, and she was sitting on the davenport near the fireplace. She looked up without expression. I asked, "Is there a library around here?" She sighed, and rose. She said, "Follow me." She led me to a room whose four walls were lined with books. There was a wide glass door leading out from this to the patio. "Dad's old retreat," she said. "Everything from Aristotle to Zola. If there's something you don't see, don't hesitate to ask. We aim to please." She closed the door behind her. I didn't gorge; I only nibbled. But fed enough to realize this was a deep, rich culture; this planet had produced some first rate minds and exceptional talents. But still, with all this to choose from, the people seemed to prefer Milton Berle. And the people were in command. I was reading Ambrose Bierce when she came in. She looked at the book, and at me. "Lunch," she said quietly. I put the book down, and rose. "The unwelcome guest?" "I'd tell you, if you were." "Would you, honestly?" She didn't answer that. She smiled, and said, "There are some fights at Ocean Park, tonight." We saw those, and later, some amateur fights. Strange spectacles they were, men belaboring each other, but fascinating, too. The amateurs were less talented, but more friendly, leaving the ring arm in arm, if both were still conscious. The professionals displayed no such amicability. Why? I asked Jean. What was the difference between the amateurs and the professionals? "Money," she said, and looked at me strangely. "Didn't you really know that?" I lied with a nod. "I wanted you to see it, and to word it for yourself." "Look," she said with controlled irritation, "if I want any curbstone philosophy, I can read one of those corny columnists. I certainly don't have to sit in a screaming mob watching a couple of morons pound each other bloody to arrive at a stupid generality like that." "Let's get a hamburger," I said. She just stood there, on the sidewalk. "You -- you -- " People were turning to stare. "Farmer?" I suggested. "Oh," she said, "oh, oh -- " "Or a cheeseburger," I added. There was a small crowd, now, openly watching. One man said, "Hey, this is better than them jerks inside. Slug him, lady." Jean started to laugh, and so did I, and then all of us were laughing, the whole crowd. We didn't go to a hamburger place. We went to a place where we could dance, too, and I had a small glass of wine, and wondered why we'd outgrown alcohol, on our planet. It was a night I will never forget. It was a night I learned how much she meant to me. There wasn't ever going to be anybody else for me, after that night. at five-thirty the next morning. And still, I didn't tell her where I was from. When the time came, she could go back with me, but I couldn't risk sharing that secret with her. I didn't have the right to jeopardize my people by giving her information she might divulge unintentionally. The world was our playground, and my study hall American first. We drove east, taking our time, while I tried to get the temper of the people. I never overlooked a chance to talk to people ; the papers were no subsitute for that. And between the papers and the people, I found that only the hysterics were voluble, only the biased articulate. And yet, it was a country with a liberal and progressive tradition, a country that should have been informed beyond the average. Knowledge had been made too easy; the glib were in command. Fear, Jars had said, and it was becoming increasingly clear to me that he was closer to it than Deering. For Deering's viewpoint, I had a working model, I had Jean. In the canyon city, New York, high in our room at the EmpireHudson, she said, "You're an awfully nosy guy, Dream Boat." "I like to talk to people," I said. "Haven't you been getting enough attention?" "As much as I can handle," she said. "And I'm enjoying every second of it. But it seems to be getting you down." "You or the people?" I asked, and mussed her hair. She didn't answer that. "Fred," she said, "do you remember that day at breakfast, long ago? Do you remember asking about Ambrose Bierce and Amelia Earhart?" "I guess I do." "Don't be evasive, Fred. You know you do." I pulled her close. "Is this going to be a questioning period? Is this one of those marriages?" "Now, Fred -- " she said, against my shoulder. "Be serious, please, Fred. Please be serious -- oh, you, Fred -- " that phrase they have -- "muddling through"? That's what they were doing. Proudly, with a minimum of complaint, with no thought of rebellion, with no rationalizing or projection, living as the submerged tenth lives in America, and seeming to think that -- well, things could be worse. In Italy, it was the kids, the beggars and procurers and thieves and even murderers who were kids. In Spain we found much of the same. In France it was all the heat and no light, charges and countercharges, lies and counter-lies, confusion and corruption. In Berlin, it was Russia. The cloud that darkens the world looms darkest in Berlin. The apathy that grips the world is epitomized in Berlin. A people with no sense of guilt and no reason for hope, nor stirring to the promise of a re-armed Germany. A bled and devastated people, shorn of their chief strength, their national pride. Jean said, "I've seen enough. Haven't you, Fred? How much can you take?" "One more," I said. "Russia." "Don't be silly," she said. "How would we get into Russia?" "We wouldn't. But I would." "Look, baby, whither though goest, I -- " "Up to here," I said. "Who's the big boss in this family?" "Now, Fred -- " "Now, Jean -- " "Get away from me. This time, it won't work. If you think that for one second you're going into that no man's land alone -- and -- " It took some talking, to convince her, it took some lies. She'd wait, she agreed finally, in Switzerland. In comfort for a change. It took two diamonds to get to the right man, and it took a formula from there. A formula that is learned in the first year of college chemistry on my planet, a formula for converting an element. A formula this planet couldn't have been more than a decade short of learning, anyway. The last man I saw in Berlin went along, for which I was grateful, though he didn't know that. I don't speak Russian, but he did. They were careful, they don't even trust themselves. I told Nilenoff the formula came from America, and there were more, but I needed money. I didn't tell him the fallacy in the formula ; it had taken us three years to realize what it was. My trips were limited, directed, and avoided the seamier side. I saw the modern humming factories, and the mammoth farms. No unemployment, no waste, no "capitalistic blood sucking" -- and the lowest standard of living in the industrialized world. A vast, bleak land peopled with stringless puppets, with walking cadavers. I remembered the faces of the crowds and the strangely mixed people in America, their obvious feelings, emotions and rivalries. There was nothing strange about these people of Russia -- they were dead, spiritually dead. The country that could have been a cultural and industrial center of the world was a robot-land of nine for war, getting ready to take over the dreams of Hitler and make them come true. I came out with a promise of ten thousand American dollars for every one of the future formulas I had assured them I could get to. I came out with the knowledge that I'd be a watched man from now on. In Switzerland, Jean said, "Well -- ?" "I'm ready to go home," I told her. "America, you mean?" "Where else?" "I've been alone," she said, "and thinking. I've gone back to Sunset and Pacific Coast Highway and traced it all forward from there. And I don't think America's your home." Very cool her voice, very tense her face. I smiled at her. She didn't smile in return. "Fred -- we're married." "I'm glad," I said. "Aren't you?" "It's no time for the light touch." Tears in her eyes. "Fred, are you a -- a Russian spy?" I shook my head. "But -- " It was a clear night, and I went to the window. How it shone, in that clear air. Jean came over to stand next to me. I pointed, and said, "There's my home." "Venus," she said. "Fred, for heaven's sake -- Vm serious !" "Some day," I said, "this planet will learn how to see through our manufactured fog. Some day they will develop the vision we developed a century ago. And -- " "Damn it, Fred, be serious. If you'd know what I've gone through, alone here, thinking back on all the crazy things you've said and done. What have you told me about yourself, what do I know?" "Nothing," I said. "And what have I asked you about yourself? It's a matter of faith, Jean." "Faith? Running all over the country like fugitives, financed by those damned diamonds, nosing into this and into that, and then running off to Russia, all alone. With what you'd learned , Fred?" I shook my head, resentment stirring in me. "Remember when we met? In Santa Monica -- right there, next to the beach. You didn't have a thing but the clothes on your back and a bagful of diamonds. Was it a sub that brought you that far, Fred?" "No," I said, "and you wouldn't believe me if I told you." "Try me, and see," she said. She was rigid, and near hysteria. "All right. I came there in a space sphere from Venus." She started to sob, a wild, lonely sound and I moved forward to take her in my arms. Her fingers clawed my face, her high heel smashed my instep. "Get out," she screamed, "get out, get out, get out -- " I got out. I went to the first floor washroom and cleaned up my bloody face, and then went into the bar. This was one habit I'd picked up on the planet. When I came up to the suite, later, I didn't even check to see if she was in the washroom. I flopped down on the davenport and didn't know anything for the next twelve hours. She was gone, when I came to. She'd checked out before I'd come back to the room, the night before. I missed the plane she took from France. I missed her by a day in New York. I went back to the big house with the high pillars on Sunset Boulevard. And she wasn't there. She'd come back to it, I knew. I moved in, to wait. I wasn't going home without her; I wasn't even sure I was going home with her. I was involved, now, in this planet, almost as crazy as the rest of them. I sat. I did some drinking, but mostly I sat, going back over all our days, reading nothing, enjoying nothing, just remembering. The Korean business started and the headlines grew uglier, and the jackals screamed and the people grew more confused. One day, the maid told me I had a visitor. I was in the library and I told her to send him back. When he came in, he closed the door behind him. I'd never seen him, before, but he said, "We've been looking for three weeks." "We?" "Thirty of us," he said. "What happened? Jars sent me." "Oh," I said. "I can't come, now. I'm -- married -- " He smiled. "If you knew what a mess it's been. We've got men all over the planet. Does your wife -- know?" "She thinks I'm crazy," I said. "Look, I -- " the huddlers "I'm not to argue," he said. "Just make your report, and I'll pick it up, tonight." Five minutes after he was gone, I was packing. I knew he wasn't coming back for any report. He was coming back for me, and it didn't much matter to him if I wanted to come, or not. I was coming, or staying here -- dead. What I didn't realize is that they wanted me to run, to get out where I could be taken with a minimum of interference. They got me the other side of Blythe, in the middle of nowhere. A clear night in the desert, and headlights coming up from behind and then the big, black car crowding me off the flat road, into the sand... And darkness. head. "Corruption, Werig? Was it the corruption, or the girl?" "I've made my report," I said. "Don't worry about them. They've got enough to worry about without worrying about us." "Another war, it looks like," Deering said. "It could be the last one, you know. What was the girl -- your wife like, Fred? Was she pretty?" "Beautiful," I said. "And the people -- fear, is it fear?" "I don't know. Their vice is fear, but they have some virtues." Deering's voice was quiet. "Jars wanted me to ask you -- about your wife. Where is she? Is she coming with you? It was forbidden." "I don't know where she is, she's not coming with me, and I know it was forbidden. But where is Jars? He has been avoiding me, hasn't he? Why?" "He has been pleading for you, before the assembly." Deering rose, and went to the window, to look out. "Who will win this war that's shaping up among the huddlers, Fred?" "I don't know. I'm not sure I give a damn." Deering continued to look out the window. "The gray nation, the mixed nation, this America; they have some promise of the light, have they not?" "Some." "But this black nation, this nation of robots, there is no chance of of light there?" "Not under their present leaders. If they should win the war the planet would be set back five hundred years." Deering shook his head, and turned to face me sadly. "It would be worse than that. If they should win this war shaping up, there would be no planet for them to rule." I stared at him, not believing, still so bound up in my trip I couldn't believe his words. Love , -- faith, fear, Jean -- were running through my mind. And Jean... ? Deering answered everything for me. "We can't take the chance," he said. "We will abolish the planet. The assembly so decided this mom  jj ing. His "Nature of Things " Is History's Largest Class K. Marshall was living the Dr . Roy K. Marshall hold equipment, he illustrates such diverse subjects as synthetic rubber, the fourth dimension, vacuum, new and interesting properties of metals and the causes and distributions of earthquakes. His talent as a modem classroom lecturer is remarkable. His programs are of only # minutes duration, and yet, in even that short time, some of the most complex phases of science are made clear and interesting -- opening up a whole new world of understanding for his vast audience, no matter what the age or education. T HE gray-haired, keen-eyed profour years ago, raised in Ohio, graduated from Ohio Wesleyan University and got his Ph.D. from the University of Michigan. Incidentally, the thesis for his doctorate was a dissertation on astrophysics. Galled "The best planetarium man in America" by the famed Dr. Harlow Shapely of Harvard, the youthful Doctor has been the director of two plane tariums -- Fels Planetarium in Philadelphia, and Moorehead at the University of North Carolina. When he's not writing newspaper articles, delivering lectures, or appearing as a guest on various radio and television shows (he's flown over # miles to meet such commitments in the last two years) Roy Marshall handles a job as educational director of a radio and television station in Philadelphia. Here he supervises, expedites and very often produces and directs approximately nine hours of educational radio and television shows. These shows are used regularly by teachers as assignments and have aided the further understanding of countless children. He also must, of course, prepare his own script and arrange and rehearse the network show "The Nature of Things". He recently completed a book titled "The Nature of Things -- from the hearts of the atoms to the ends of the universe", and is now hard at work on a second book. Dr. Marshall resigned his position as director of the Morehead Planetarium and Chairman of the Department of Astronomy at the University of North Carolina last year because he felt he needed more leisure time, in which to concentrate on broadcasting and raising, with his wife Phyllis, three growing sons. "I just didn't have any home life," he explained. Today Mrs. Marshall and the three boys feel that the home front situation hasn't improved at all noticeably. -- epw If this story has a moral, it is: " Leave well enough alone" Just look what happened to Kenzie " mad about-ants" McKenzie, who didn't... By Mark Clifton Illustrated by Kelly Freas a mad scientist hardly showed at all. To see him ambling down the street in loose jointed manner, with sandy hair uncombed, blue eyes looking vaguely beyond normal focus, you might think here was a young fellow dreaming over how his gal looked last night. It might never occur to you that he was thinking of -- ants. Of course, we fellows in the experimental lab all knew it, but Kenzie wasn't too hard to get along with. In fact, he could usually be counted on to pull us out of a technical hole. We put up with him through a certain fondness, maybe even a little pride. It gave us a harmless subject to talk about when security was too rigid on other things. Our Department Chief knew it, but Kenzie had solved quite a few knotty electronics problems. The Chief never has been too particular to see credit get back to the guy who earned it. We guessed he figured having Kenzie there was profitable to him. In fact, the little redhead in payroll told me the Chief was drawing quite a few bonus checks. Personnel probably didn't know about it. Kenzie's papers, buried deep in the files, wouldn't show it; because about the only question they had not asked us was, "Where do you stand on the matter of ants?" There was an unwritten law in the lab for nobody ever to mention insects, or even elderly female relatives. I guess that was why it wasn't mentioned to the new guy, name of Robert Pringle. This fellow Pringle worked along for a couple weeks and showed us he had the old know-how in his fingers. A capable tech, a good joe, and we thought we were lucky to get him. On this particular morning, it happened that Pringle was working at the bench next to Kenzie. Being a talented tech, like the rest of us, his mind naturally ran along more than one channel at the same time. I expect he was really surprised at the reaction he got when he shouted out to the room at large. "Hey, fellows," he yelled. "I got little green bugs on my roses. What do you do about it?" The silence made him look up from his work, and he couldn't help npticing we all stood there with clinched hands and gritted teeth. We were watching Kenzie, who snapped the juice off his soldering iron and pointed the iron at Pringle. "Those," said Kenzie in a hollow, impressive voice, "are aphis. If you will look closer, Pringle, you will see among them -- ants. The aphid is to the ant as the dairy cow is to the human. Those ants are aphid herders, carefully tending and milking their flock." "Here we go again," moaned one of the fellows across the lab. "The ants are a highly intelligent life form," Kenzie went on. "I would explain it to you in detail, but I am in the middle of a problem at this moment." "Thank heaven for that," another tech ground out the words. "Suffice it to say," Kenzie ignored all interruptions, "Man would well occupy himself trying to communicate with them." The Chief came to the doorway of his little office down at the end of the lab. He looked us all over patiently and knowingly. "Now give him your syllogism, Kenzie," he said quietly, "so we can all get back to work." "You may reflect on this, Pringle," Kenzie stated and waved his soldering iron in the air. "One: Man wants to communicate with intelligent life from other planets or the stars. "Two: We know from observation the ants communicate with one another. "Ergo : Before we reach so far as to contact extra terrestrial intelligence, had we not better occupy our time with solving a much simpler communications problem; to wit: communicate with the ants? How can we expect to solve communication with really alien beings from the stars, when we have not learned to communicate with the intelligent beings at our very feet?" All over the room we sighed heavily with relief. We knew the syllogism was the conclusion, the Sunday punch. The boy had really cut it short this time. Usually he was good for a solid hour with facts and figures about how ants built bridges and such stuff. We all looked at Pringle's face, expecting to see the embarrassed and sheepish grin. This was the usual reaction of a stranger when he first met up with Kenzie's syllogism. It horrified us to see, instead, his shining eyes. We heard him say enthusiastically. "That's just how I've always felt about it, Kenzie. It's a pleasure to meet a man who isn't afraid of thinking." "Oh, no-o-o!" we all groaned out in a chorus. "Only," Pringle said dubiously, and our hopes began to arise again. "Only I've been thinking more along the line of termites." Our hopes fell and were shattered. We heard the Chief moan to himself and saw him turn and almost run back into his office. "Two of 'em now," he was mumbling over and over. "Two of 'em now. It ain't worth it. It ain't worth it." He sat down heavily and buried his head in his arms across the top of his desk. Kenzie was watching him too, like he was wondering what had got into the Chief. Then Kenzie turned back to Pringle. "Ants," he said with determination. "Termites," Pringle answered him stubbornly. Kenzie glared at Pringle for a minute, then his face cleared. "Why not both of them?" he asked, like a fellow who was willing to be big about it. "Sure, why not?" Pringle came his half way also. Then, like he wasn't to be outdone in generosity. "Ants first, then termites later." Solemnly the two shook hands. They went back to their work at the bench, and there was an aura of understanding and accord at that end of the room thick enough to be felt. "I hope you insect lovers will be very happy together," the grid expert mumbled to their backs. The rest of us also settled back into our varied jobs and problems. But we worked as if we momentarily expected an earthquake to rock us. Our hands were not quite steady. Our eyes were not firm and piercing. We almost held our breaths. For a wonder, we agreed with the Chief. Two of 'em now. The days passed and nothing more was said. More than ever now, we enforced the taboo on insects. We didn't mention trees, or wood, or even the conditional subjunctive. Would sounded like wood. Wood might bring up the thought of termites. We could see the Chief was weighing the advantages of keeping them against the risks of upsetting the department constantly. As we expected, greed won. We knew he would not risk giving up the prestige and extra bonuses he got for Kenzie' s work. And he knew he had to keep those discoveries coming, because our management has a short memory of what a guy has done in the past. The Chief even let Kenzie have Pringle as his own personal tech. It served two purposes. It isolated them from the rest of us. It made Kenzie happy. I will say for the lads, they spent most of their time on Company problems, at first. But gradually, on one corner of Kenzie's bench, a gadget began to take shape. The two of them worked on it when there were no urgent, frantic, must-be-outtodaywithoutfail problems to be solved first. None of us could figure out the purpose of the mechanism. We knew if we couldn't figure it, the Chief couldn't. But we could practically see him rub his hands in glee when he thought of the extra bonus he might get for this new gadget. Of course the Chief wasn't a complete slouch as an electronics engineer. But it was a long time since he did his study, and he had grown hazy by spending too many years as an administrator. The word got around that for hours at a time, after we had gone home, the Chief would stand at Kenzie's bench. The way we reasoned it, he figured he ought to know something about the gadget when he took it in to Old Rock Jaw, and palmed it off as his latest discovery. We also reasoned that since we couldn't figure it, the Chief must have been an awfully troubled man. Obviously, it had something to do with microwave transmission and reception. There was the usual high-frequency condensor, the magnatron tubes, the tuning cavities. All company stock, of course. But then none of us ever worried about cost. That was the Chiefs problem. He didn't worry much about it either, except at budget time. Then there were screams of anguish from the front office over experimental requisitions. Every year, Old Rock Jaw promised to fire us all, if we didn't cut costs, but in a couple of weeks we always forgot about it. Trouble was, the Chief had been getting edgy about costs lately, so we knew it was about time for the annual budget battle. Significantly, he didn't say a word to Kenzie about the gadget. working late one night on a special permit. My bench is over in a wing of the lab, and I guess the Chief forgot I was around. I saw a very pretty scene. The Chief had built up a habit of staying late so he could stand and study over the Kenzie gadget. He never touched it, though. He knew enough not to bother anything, because we all knew how bitter Kenzie was when anybody touched his things. The Chief was standing there this evening when the General Manager, Old Rock Jaw, was showing some important personages through the plant after hours. They came through the lab door, and I saw scrambled eggs and fruit salad shining all over bulging uniforms. There was also one little, geezik in a pin-striped suit. Old Rock Jaw was talking, as usual... and it is from this room, gentlemen," he was saying, "That some of those revolutionary discoveries emanate!" Then he caught sight of the Chief, who had hastily picked up a cold soldering iron and was tentatively touching a random point on the new mechanism. "Ah-h!" Old Rock Jaw exclaimed with satisfaction. "Here is our chief scientist now. Still at work. He watches no clock, gentlemen, He knows no time. His whole life is wrapped up in his research!" The Chief didn't look around, but bent closer to the soldering point. He looked like he hoped they would limit their inspection to a cursory look about and then retire. I hoped they would too, I didn't want them to see me. But Old Rock Jaw, in more of a blowhard mood even than usual, couldn't let well enough alone. He came up close to the Chief, and looked over his shoulder at the mechanism. He was even more ignorant than the Chief, so I knew he wouldn't recognize any of it. "Don't let us disturb you, Alfred," he breathed in a hushed voice. "But could you tell the gentlemen what you are working on now?" He cleared his throat importantly and said, "I might add that everyone here has been security cleared, Alfred, so you may speak freely." The Chief still did not lift his eyes from his work. He didn't dare. He carefully turned an unconnected control knob a hairsbreadth with utmost deliberation and precision. "Multimicrofrequidometer," the Chief mumbled, and buried his head still deeper into the mechanism. "Ah yes, of course. But you have a new hook up," the General Manager bluffed. "I hardly recognized it at first. Startling!" he breathed. He looked around triumphantly at the impressed brass and braid. He looked pointedly at the pinstriped suit who probably controlled congressional purse strings. "Apparently he is at a point where he cannot divert his attention to us, gentlemen," he breathed in a hushed voice. He placed his fingers to his lips and began to tiptoe backwards toward the door. The beef trust in fancy uniform came up on their own toesies, and also tiptoed away from the genius scientist. By now, the genius was beginning to exude large drops of sweat. The door closed behind them, and the Chief dropped the cold soldering iron with a sigh of relief. He took hold of his tongue, where he must have been biting into it. He wiped his forehead and fingers with his breast-pocket handkerchief. Both the Chief and I heard the party walking down the hall and into another wing of the building. I still didn't make a sound. It would never do for the Chief to know he had been observed. After a suitable time, the Chief, also, tiptoed out of the lab, and he was mumbling to himself as I have never seen him mumble before. thing appeared on Kenzie's work bench. This time it was a large rectangular glass aquarium. It was filled with moist earth. Now here was something new in electronics! We shook our heads. One of the techs, who fancied himself a psychologist, said the boys were suffering from retrogressive dementia. They had gone so far back into childhood, they had to play sand box. The Chief overheard the tech, and spoke up plaintively. "But I don't see any celluloid spade and bucket," he said. He seemed relieved when we burst out laughing. His relief didn't last long, however. It changed to more worry when he saw the boys carefully sprinkling bread and meat crumbs over the surface of the sand. Then on top of that they dropped moist bits of cake icing. When Pringle brought down a marigold plant, all covered with aphis, and transplanted it in a comer of the aquarium, the Chief again ran into his office and began to hold his head in his hands. More days passed. The gadget became a bristling porcupine of test clips. By now the boys had forgotten they were working for the Company and spent practically all their time on the whoozits. The Chief became so fascinated, in a kind of horror-stricken manner, that he did not mention the aquarium to Kenzie at all. The rest of us also kept away from that side of the lab. Ever since Kenzie had started on the gadget, he had no time for us, or helping us with our problems. If we spoke to him he snapped back at us, until I guess all our noses were out of joint. By the time the aquarium appeared, we were ignoring him and everything he did. In a few more weeks the aquarium was swarming with ants. It was easy to see their tunnels running up and down the sides of the glass. I will say this for the boys. They set it in a huge pan of water. None of us could legitimately squawk about getting ants mixed up with our anatomy. The Chief showed he was mixed with disappointment and elation when the boys asked clearance to work nights in the lab. Disappointed since he could no longer stay late and follow the progress; elated because the boys must really be getting hot. Annual budget time was getting closer, and we could see the wheels going around in his mind. It would be a nice thing if he could deliver the multiwhoozits gadget just before the big fight for appropriations. As far as we knew, the only interest the General Manager had shown was the time he asked the Chief in the hall how that multiwhoozits was coming along. Even in that question, it was evident Old Rock Jaw was asking out of a rare politeness only -- there being no big shots around to impress. It was doubtful if the G.M. heard the Chief's vague answer, because the old boy was mumbling to himself about rising costs and having to cut down expenses. He waddled on down the hall. He was still mumbling as he went, but both the Chief and I heard one sentence clearly. "And certain salaries and bonuses will have to be cut." The Chief turned pale. So he granted Kenzie' s request with alacrity -- and hoped he would finish the gadget in time. For two more weeks the Chief waited patiently, or maybe impatiently. He knew the boys were working every night, because the security police complained about their pinochle game being interrupted to let Kenzie and Pringle in and out. Both the boys began to get a feverish look in their faces. Their cheeks grew hollow. Their eyes were bloodshot. Their regular work suffered even more. The Chief thought he was being considerate when he lifted some of their work and shoved it over to the rest of us. We were already sore at the boys and we didn't take it too kindly. Just the same, we didn't let our squawk get beyond the walls of the lab. No use letting that nosy Personnel Department get an excuse to start holding hands, patting on the back, and radiating aid and comfort to all. Then -- a certain Monday came. as usual. Some of the newer guys pretended to be busy, but we were all watching to see what he would do. There is a back door to the Chiefs office which he seldom uses and which he always keeps locked. But it opens into the lab wing right at my table. It wasn't my fault, in fiddling around a little with the lock, it came unstuck and the door opened a little so I could hear what went on. When the Chief came in, both the boys were busy dismantling the gadget. Discouragement and hopelessness were written all over their faces, in the dejected slope of their shoulders, in the lackadaisical movements of their arms. Piece by piece, through the glass partition of his office wall, the Chief watched the gadget being taken apart. Each piece was carefully taken back and placed in stock for re-use. That alone was enough to create great alarm for their sanity. Imagine a technician putting a piece back to be used over! Finally the Chief could bear it no longer. He called them into his office. He carefully shut the door, but he didn't notice the back door swung open a little farther. I found it necessary to work close to the crack, and if I turned around, I could get a good view of the entire office. The Chief waved the boys into chairs across from his desk. He sat down and placed his fingertips together. Even then, I could see his hands were shaking. He leaned forward and asked with careful sympathy in his voice. "Didn't it work?" "Yeah," Kenzie answered in a bored voice. "It worked." I was surprised at Kenzie's voice. Usually he talked with the concise enunciation of a professor. Now he sounded like maybe just a good lab tech. "Then why are you dismantling it?" the Chief asked with a worried frown. "It wouldn't be good for people to know about it," Pringle burst out. "I don't understand," the Chief faltered. Then desperately, "Look, fellows. I've given you a lotta leeway. You've sluffed your work something terrible. That's all right to an extent. I've covered for you." "Thanks, Chief," Kenzie said drily. "But Old Rock -- er -- the General Manager," the Chief complained, "knows I've been working on something. Now what with budgets coming on, and all, I gotta have something to show!" "You've been working on something -- " Pringle exclaimed. "I mean my department has," the Chief covered himself hastily. "I'm responsible for what goes on in my department, you know. I gotta have some kind of an explanation." He was almost wailing now. "What with budgets coming on, and all." "Make up your own explanation," Kenzie answered disinterestedly. "It's a cinch you can't give out with the real one." The Chief began to wheedle. "You two boys know the explanation. Why can't you tell me? This is your Chief who's talking, boys. The one who has always stood by you and covered for you. Remember? You just gotta tell me, boys." I saw Pringle and Kenzie look at one another. "I guess he's right, Ken," Pringle said. "That is, if he promises never to tell anybody." "Yeah. I guess so." Kenzie nodded his head in agreement. "We owe him that much for just letting us alone." The Chief let out a big sigh of relief. "It's about ants," Kenzie began. "Now, now, Kenzie boy," the Chief interrupted hurriedly. "Let's stay on the subject, shall we? Let's not get off on that tangent again, Kenzie boy. Shall we?" "Nuts," Kenzie said. "But this is about ants, Chief," Pringle answered. Then shrewdly, "But first you gotta promise, Chief." "All right, I promise," the Chief acceded testily. "It's about ants," Kenzie repeated stubbornly. The Chief winced, but he held his peace. "They're intelligent," Kenzie said profoundly, and stopped. "I know," the Chief prompted. "I know, Kenzie boy. You've been saying that all along." "I communicated with them," Kenzie said flatly. "You what?" The Chiefs eyes bugged out. I guess mine did too. "Sure," Kenzie answered. "After a fashion, that is. In their anthers they've got a chitin cell diaphragm. Modified cellular structure. They communicate with a sort of microwave. Roughly you might say it generates and radiates like our brain wave. Roughly, very roughly. This chitin diaphragm picks up the microwave like our ears pick up sound. Roughly, that is." "But that's wonderful," the Chief glowed. It didn't take much imagination to see him in the General Manager's office explaining how his multiwhoozits gadget worked. Maybe nothing immediately commercial about it, but when the publicity office got hold of it -- man, it would mean plenty of free publicity for the Company. And how Old Rock Jaw loved free publicity! "We tuned in on them," Kenzie was saying. "By putting different kinds of food around, and by making different kinds of disturbances, we worked out a crude sort of vocabulary." "You did -- " the Chief exclaimed. "Nothing fancy, you understand," Kenzie belittled his achievement. "But enough so when we broadcast a sugar wave, they came running to the surface to see where it was. When we broadcast a water wave, they rushed to the ant nursery and started carrying eggs to high ground." "Glory be -- " the Chief breathed. In his eyes there was the vision of world renowned scientists patting him on the back. Maybe even more important, Old Rock Jaw was actually smiling, and telling him he could have unlimited funds in his budget. "Sure," Kenzie said bitterly. "Sure that was all very fine. Big shots, we were going to be, Pringle and me. First time in history man had talked with an insect. Maybe even get our pictures in the paper, same as if we'd murdered somebody. Fame!" "Yeah," Pringle chimed in. "First step in learning how to communicate with an alien mind. Nuts!" "I don't get it," the Chief stammered. "What's wrong with that?" "Well, we went on perfecting the vocabulary," Kenzie said. "You know. Fining it down. Had the little beggars practically standing on their heads at times with our wave." He grinned at the memory and seemed to shake off some of his lethargy. "You shoulda been here the night Pringle had them marching in formation." His face fell again. "We kept on improving the gadget," he said with hangdog attitude. "We still hadn't made direct communication, you understand. Nothing like 'How do you do, Mrs. Ant? This is Kenzie MacKenzie, human, talking.' " Then he sneered at his memory. "With our microwave we could make them do things. But hell, you can make them run out of the ground by pouring water down their hole. That's not communication! We couldn't seem to contact them direct -- make them know we were communicating." "But you still -- " the Chief said. He had visions of every home using a gadget to broadcast "keep away" signals to ant pests. "Our gadget was still crude at that point," Kenzie interrupted. "We fined it down, more and more. That's when we began to pick up the star static." "Star static?" the Chief faltered. "He wouldn't know about that," Pringle said, and I could detect contempt in his voice, even if the Chief didn't. "Sure he would," Kenzie corrected. "Everybody knows about the fifty or so stars that send out continuous radio signals, and how we've been trying for years to unscramble them." "Why certainly," the Chief said, so positively I knew he hadn't heard of it before. "Anyway," Kenzie said. "The more we worked out the vocabulary code, the more the star signals began to fit right into it. So we decided to break up the thing, and forget all about ants. Honest Chief, you'll never hear me mention the word again." "Termites either," Pringle chimed in. "But I still don't understand," the Chief complained. "It still all sounds marvelous. I just don't understand." "Draw him a picture," Pringle said disgustedly. "Okay," Kenzie acceded. "How many years would you say ants have been on earth, Chief?" "Oh, I don't know," the Chief answered. "Quite a few, I'd say." "Yeah," Kenzie . said drily. Unchanged. A perfect life form with a perfect civilization. So perfect, nature hasn't seen any need to "So what?" the Chief asked. "They're nothing. We come along and make them do nip ups." "Yeah," Kenzie was bitter again. "We humans go around talking about how brave and smart we are. How someday we might even get so smart we'll contact other intelligent races on other worlds. Yeah, we're smart. You know those star radiations?" "That's not my specialty, you know," the Chief answered cautiously. "Some of those radiations started out from their home planet a million light years ago," Pringle said quietly. "So what again?" the Chief asked. "Those radiations," Kenzie said, "happen to be communications between the galaxies -- beamed at the ants. Sort of a continuous radio program broadcast universe wide. It happens the ants, maybe termites, maybe other insects, are spread through all the galaxies. It happens they are the dominant intelligent race throughout the universe." He shrugged in disgust. "Us big brave humans," he said contemptuously. "Someday we might even reach Mars. Hell, those ants have been colonizing for hunstill communicating. They are the real intelligence on the earth!" He crushed a cigarette fiercely into a glass ash tray on the desk. "Only thing man has got, or ever had, was his ego. He's got to believe he's top dog, or else he folds and quits. Yeah, we're smart all right. Hell, we're so far down the scale the ants don't even recognize us as a life form at all." Pringle nodded soberly. "Yeah," he said to the Chief, "how would you like to explain a gadget that proved ants have more brains than you have?" The Chief looked at them with incredulous eyes. He was still staring at them silently, with a bloodless face, when the office messenger came in and told him the General Manager wished to see him in his office to discuss budgets. I closed the back office door quietly and went back to work. The other guys clustered around and wanted to know what I heard. "Nothing," I said, and looked them straight in the eye. "Nothing at all." propriations committee for nothing. He had an eye for results, and right now that eye was sharper than ever. for space. His final report?... Well, maybe you'd better Apostolides in the next issue! It is rumored that technology might eliminate many useless items from our regulated life of the future -- including good, old-fashioned sex. However, let's kibitz for a moment... By Gene Hunter slow, cumbersome train. He disliked using this uncomfortable means of travel, but since he wanted to learn more about these strange creatures who were his ancestors, he had decided to try to become used to their ways. He was lonely in this strange, backward age and when he unexpectedly saw another being like himself in the same coach, he hastened to make his presence known. He introduced himself and asked politely : "When are you from?" "#," the other replied. self," Kial said. "Just a country boy. But # -- that's only a period ahead of my own time. Maybe you could tell me..." "Ah, ah!" the other admonished. "Remember the First Law of Thek!" "Oh, Center," Kial grumbled. "I know: 'One may not divulge any scientific, technical or social information to anyone from his own past whom he may meet at an equidistant point in a Thek-travel.' I forgot." "Bad," Broyk said. Then he added, almost jokingly: "You wouldn't want to be marooned in this dismal era, would you?" Kial shuddered. "Of course not. But the Laws seem so ridiculous." "Not a bit," Broyk said, warming up to the subject. "It's very simple, really. Same principle that doesn't allow anyone to Thektravel into the future. "Look. I'm from #. Say that I went into #, where I memorized as much information as I could on some subject such as medicine. So I return to #, retaining all such knowledge in my mind that's been learned in four periods. Therefore, I'd have knowledge that wasn't dreamed of in my own time, but was discovered sometime during the next four peripds. But then it couldn't be discovered. because I'd brought it back to # and -- well, I'm no Logician, but you see my point." "Oh, it's reasonable, I suppose," Kial admitted. "I realize the Laws are really for our own good. By the way -- Pm here on a field trip to gather material for my thesis on Advanced Therapeutical Psychology and its development since the Twentieth Century. What phase of this era are you here to study?" "I -- Fm afraid I couldn't tell you that," Broyk said. "It's of rather a secret nature and..." "You mean we might violate a Law and be stuck here for good -- is that it?" "Yes -- in a way." Frightened, Kial let the matter drop. His gaze wandered through the coach, examining the other passengers with interest. As time travelers from a different spacetime plane from their #th Century ancestors, he and Broyk were naturally invisible to their fellow travelers. Two pompous old gentlemen were lighting cigars and Kial was about to remark on the habit of smoking when he noticed an even more remarkable phenomenon. A few seats ahead of them sat a goodlooking young couple, oblivious to others about them. "Look!" Kial cried excitedly. "Lovers! Honey mooners! I've read about such things! Isn't it disgusting?" "Oh, I don't know," Broyk said, a little wistfully. "I sometimes think it was a mistake for Center to do away with sex. It must have been interesting." "Atavist!" Kial snapped in horror. Had his peoples' emotional make-up provided for blushing, Kial would undoubtedly have turned beet-red. Broyk's words had caused him acute embarrassment. strange companion, he suddenly began to feel a sensation he had often heard about but never before had experienced. Terror and dismay filled him as he sought to throw off the probing finger that was penetrating his mind. He looked at Broyk. There was the faintest notion of a smile on the other's face as he said: "Yes, Kial -- I am a Telepath." Kial's mind reeled. He felt himself on the brink of some gigantic abyss and then, as suddenly as it had come, the searching sensation faded away. "Since you are unable to enter my mind," Broyk said calmly, "it's only fair that I tell you about myself. You were right -- I'm an atavist. Even in period #, such things can happen. Always such creatures are destroyed after their first psychotests, but my case was different. The Controller who bred me was only a dabbler in such things. I was a failure, but he took a fancy to me. I was allowed to mature secretly -- few people knew of my existence. When I reached my majority my presence became dangerous and I was sent back into time to try and find the proper place for myself. And I think I've found it -- here!" Kial was a very amazed young man. "But such a barbarous age," he complained. "Sex and atom bombs and everything..." "Remember," Broyk smiled, "these people are the forebears of the geniuses who created Center and the Galactic Empire. They'll survive, despite their barbarism. The existence of Center is proof." "It's rather horrible to contemplate," Kial said thoughtfully, calmer now, "and yet, this might really be a great age. In a way I almost envy you." "Of course you do," Broyk said. "You have certain tendencies -- they bother you, although you manage to hide them well. I discovered them when I took the liberty of telepathing you. Artificial Genetics isn't perfect, even in our time -- perhaps because we originally sprang from man. Perhaps we'll never be quite perfect, because of that, even after thousands of periods of breeding." Kial took another look at the loving young couple. "It -- it might be fun, after all." Broyk laughed. "You needn't envy me at all, you know." Kial frowned. "I'm telling you about myself," Broyk went on, "I have also told you of a specific condition existing a period ahead of your own time. Remember the First Law?" "Center!" "We're marooned in the Twentieth Century. You have to accept it." "But what will we do ?" Kial's mind was reeling again. "Since we've already broken the First Law," Broyk said, "we may just as well break the Second: 'No Thek-traveler may enter the body of a native of a foreign spacetime...' " The young lovers kissed again and this time there seemed to be an added zest, even to their passionate embrace. (Continued from page #) ings. (For the record, it wasn't -- though it's still considerable and Bloomsbury will never be quite the same to me again.) A huge crowd there in the middle of it were Mays and Marianne. It ended up with us having a very pleasant lunch together in Holborn. I'll say this about Mays -- he was very pleasant and treated the affair on Five as a huge joke. And Marianne was pretty as she could be. She laughed too. But I'm still rather sore about Marianne. "Frankly, I can't imagine what she sees in him . m m t'  # V.Vv'AiVi' Aji'i f i mSi I  m . I '  I i  jCw: B ', piil teiiwS What was the mystery of this great ship from the dark, deep reaches of space? For, within its deathfilled chambers -- was the avenue of life! By Alan E. Nourse Illustrated by Ed Emsh mand, sat bolt upright in his bunk, blinking wide-eyed at the darkness. The alarm was screaming through the Satellite Station, its harsh, nervejarring clang echoing and re-echoing down the metal corridors, penetrating every nook and crevice and cubicle of the lonely outpost, screaming incredibly through the dark sleeping period. Sabo shook the sleep from his eyes, and then a panic of fear burst into his mind. The alarm! Tumbling out of his bunk in the darkness, he crashed into the far bulkhead, staggering giddily in the impossible gravity as he pawed about for his magnaboots, his heart pounding fiercely in his ears. The alarm! Impossible, after so long, after these long months of bitter waiting -- In the corridor he collided with Brownie, looking like a frightened gnome, and he growled profanity as he raced down the corridor for the Central Control. Frightened eyes turned to him as he blinked at the bright lights of the room. The voices rose in a confused, anxious babble, and he shook his head and swore, and ploughed through them toward the screen. "Kill that damned alarm!" he roared, blinking as he counted faces.' "Somebody get the Skipper out of his sack, pronto, and stop that clatter! What's the trouble?" The radioman waved feebly at the view screen, shimmering on the great side panel. "We just picked it   up -- It was a ship, moving in from beyond Saturn's rings, a huge, gray-black blob in the silvery screen, moving in toward the Station with ponderous, clumsy grace, growing larger by the second as it sped toward them. Sabo felt the fear spill over in his mind, driving out all thought, and he sank into the control chair like a well-trained automaton. His gray eyes were wide, trained for long military years to miss nothing; his fingers moved over the panel with deft skill. "Get the men to stations," he growled, "and will somebody kindly get the Skipper down here, if he can manage to take a minute." "I'm right here." The little graying man was at his elbow, staring at the screen with angry red eyes. "Who told you to shut off the alarm?" "Nobody told me. Everyone was here, and it was getting on my nerves." "What a shame." Captain Loomis' voice was icy. "I give orders on this Station," he said smoothly, "and you'll remember it." He scowled at the great gray ship, looming closer and closer. "What's its course?" "Going to miss us by several thousand kilos at least. Look at that thing! It's traveling " "Contact it! This is what we've been waiting for." The captain's voice was hoarse. Sabo spun a dial, and cursed. "No luck. Can't get through. It's passing us -- " "Then grapple it, stupid! You want me to wipe your nose, too?" Sabo's face darkened angrily. With slow precision he set the servo fixes on the huge gray hulk looming up in the viewer, and then snapped the switches sharply. Two small servos shoved their blunt noses from the landing port of the Station, and slipped silently into space alongside. Then, like a pair of trained dogs, they sped on their beams straight out from the Station toward the approaching ship. The intruder was dark, moving at tremendous velocity past the Station, as though unaware of its existence. The servos moved out, and suddenly diverged and reversed, twisting in long arcs to come alongside the strange ship, finally moving in at the same velocity on either side. There was a sharp flash of contact power; then, like a mammoth slowmotion monster, the ship jerked in midspace and turned a graceful end-for-end arc as the servo-grapplers gripped it like leeches and whined, glowing ruddy with the jolting power flowing through them. Sabo watched, hardly breathing, until the great ship spun and slowed and stopped. Then it reversed direction, and the servos led it triumphantly back toward the landing port of the Station. Sabo glanced at the radioman, a frown creasing his forehead. "Still nothing?" "Not a peep." He stared out at the great ship, feeling a chill of wonder and fear crawl up his spine. "So this is the mysterious puzzle of Saturn," he muttered. "This is what we've been waiting for." There was a curious eager light in Captain Loomis' eyes as he looked up. "Oh, no. Not this." "What?" "Not this. The ships we've seen before were tiny, flat." His little eyes turned toward the ship, and back to Sabo's heavy face. "This is something else, something quite different." A smile curved his lips, and he rubbed his hands together. "We go out for trout and come derelict back with a whale. This ship's from space, deep space. Not from Saturn. This one's from the stars." the side of the Satellite Station, silent as a tomb, still gently rotating as the Station slowly spun in its orbit around Saturn. In the captain's cabin the men shifted restlessly, uneasily facing the eager eyes of their captain. The old man paced the floor of the cabin, his white hair mussed, his face red with excitement. Even his carefully calm face couldn't conceal the eagerness burning in his eyes as he faced the crew. "Still no contact?" he asked Sparks. The radioman shook his head anxiously. "Not a sign. I've tried every signal I know at every wave frequency that could possibly reach them. I've even tried a dozen frequencies that couldn't possibly reach them, and I haven't stirred them up a bit. They just aren't answering." Captain Loomis swung on the group of men. "All right, now, I want you to get this straight. This is our catch. We don't know what's aboard it, and we don't know where it came from, but it's our prize. That means not a word goes back home about it until we've learned all there is to learn. We're going to get the honors on this one, not some eager Admiral back home -- " The men stirred uneasily, worried eyes seeking Sabo's face in alarm. "What about the law?" growled Sabo. "The law says everything must be reported within two hours." "Then we'll break the law," the captain snapped. "I'm captain of this Station, and those are your orders. You don't need to worry about the law -- I'll see that you're protected, but this is too big to fumble. This ship is from the stars. That means it must have an Interstellar drive. You know what that means. The Government will fall all over itself to reward us -- " Sabo scowled, and the worry deepened in the men's faces. It was hard to imagine the Government falling all over itself for anybody. They knew too well how the Government worked. They had heard of the swift trials, the harsh imprisonments that awaited even the petty infringers. The Military Government had no time to waste on those who stepped out of line, they had no mercy to spare. And the men knew that their captain was not in favor in top Government circles. Crack patrol commanders were not shunted into remote, lifeless Satellite Stations if their stand in the Government was high. And deep in their minds, somehow, the men knew .they couldn't trust this little, sharp-eyed, white-haired man. The credit for such a discovery as this might go to him, yes -- but there would be little left for them. "The law -- " Sabo repeated stubbornly. "Damn the law! We're stationed out here in this limbo to watch Saturn and report any activity we see coming from there. There's nothing in our orders about anything else. There have been ships from there, they think, but not this ship. trying to find an Interstellar, and never gotten to first base." The captain paused, his eyes narrowing. "We'll go aboard this ship," he said softly. "We'll find out what's aboard it, and where it's from, and we'll take its drive. There's been no resistance yet, but it could be dangerous. We can't assume anything. The boarding party will report everything they find to me. One of them will have to be a drive man. That's you, Brownie." The little man with the sharp black eyes looked up eagerly. "I don't know if I could tell anything -- " "You can tell more than anyone else here. Nobody else knows space drive. I'll count on you. If you bring back a good report, perhaps we can cancel out certain -- unfortunate items in your record. But one other should board with you -- " His eyes turned toward John Sabo. "Not me. This is your goat." The mate's eyes were sullen. "This is gross breach, and you know it. They'll have you in irons when we get back. I don't want anything to do with it." "You're under orders, Sabo. You keep forgetting." "They're illegal orders, sir!" "I'll take responsibility for that." Sabo looked the old man straight in the eye. "You mean you'd sell us down a rat hole to save your skin. That's what you mean." Captain Loomis' eyes widened incredulously. Then his face darkened, and he stepped very close to the big man. "You'll watch your tongue, I think," he gritted. "Be careful what you say to me, Sabo. Be very careful. Because if you don't, you'll be in irons, and we'll see just how long you last when you get back home. Now you've got your orders. You'll board the ship with Brownie." The big man's fists were clenched until the knuckles were white. "You don't know what's over there!" he burst out. "We could be slaughtered." The captain's smile was unpleasant. "That would be such a pity," he murmured. "I'd really hate to see it happen -- " lent, like a shadowy ghost. No flicker of light could be seen aboard it; no sound nor faintest sign of life came from the tall, dark hull plates. It hung there, huge and imponderable, and swung around with the Station in its silent orbit. The men huddled about Sabo and Brownie, helping them into their pressure suits, checking their equipment. They had watched the little scanning beetles crawl over the surface of the great ship, examining, probing every nook and crevice, reporting crystals, and metals, and irons, while the boarding party prepared. And still the radioman waited alertly for a flicker of life from the solemn giant. Frightened as they were of their part in the illegal secrecy, the arrival of the ship had brought a change in the crew, lighting fires of excitement in their eyes. They moved faster, their voices were lighter, more cheerful. Long months on the Station had worn on derelict their nerves -- out of contact with their homes, on a mission that was secretly jeered as utter Governmental folly. Ships had been seen, years before, disappearing into the sullen bright atmospheric crust of Saturn, but there had been no sign of anything since. And out there, on the lonely guard Station, nerves had run ragged, always waiting, always watching, wearing away even the iron discipline of their military background. They grew bitterly weary of the same faces, the same routine, the constant repetition of inactivity. And through the months they had watched with increasing anxiety the conflict growing between the captain and his bitter, sulleneyed second-in-command, John Sabo. And then the ship had come, incredibly, from the depths of space, and the tensions of loneliness were forgotten in the flurry of activity. The locks whined and opened as the two men moved out of the Station on the little propulsion sleds, linked to the Station with light silk guy ropes. Sabo settled himself on the sled, cursing himself for falling so foolishly into the captain's scheme, cursing his tongue for wandering. And deep within him he felt a new sensation, a vague uneasiness and insecurity that he had not felt in all his years of military life. The strange ship was a variant, an imponderable factor thrown suddenly into his small world of hatred and bitterness, forcing him into unknown territory, throwing his mind into a welter of doubts and fears. He glanced uneasily across at Brownie, vaguely wishing that someone else were with him. Brownie was a troublemaker, Brownie talked too much, Brownie philosophized in a world that ridiculed philosophy. He'd known men like Brownie before, and he knew that they couldn't be trusted. The gray hull gleamed at them as they moved toward it, a monstrous wall of polished metal. There were no dents, no surface scars from its passage through space. They found the entrance lock without difficulty, near the top of the ship's great hull, and Brownie probed the rim of the lock with a dozen instruments, his dark eyes burning eagerly. And then, with a squeal that grated in Sabo's ears, the oval port of the ship quivered, and slowly opened. Silently, the sleds moved into the opening. They were in a small vault, quite dark, and the sleds settled slowly onto a metal deck. Sabo eased himself from the seat, tuning up his audios to their highest sensitivity, moving over to Brownie. Momentarily they touched helmets, and Brownie's excited voice came to him, muted, but breathless. "No trouble getting it open. It worked on the same principle as ours." "Better get to work on the inner lock." Brownie shot him a sharp glance. "But what about -- inside? I mean, we can't just walk in on them -- " "Why not? We've tried to contact them." Reluctantly, the little engineer began probing the inner lock with trembling fingers. Minutes later they were easing themselves through, moving slowly down the dark corridor, waiting with pounding hearts for a sound, a sign. The corridor joined another, and then still another, until they reached a great oval door. And then they were inside, in the heart of the ship, and their eyes widened as they stared at the thing in the center of the great vaulted chamber. "My God!" Brownie's voice was a hoarse whisper in the stillness. "Look at them, Johnny!" Sabo moved slowly across the room toward the frail, crushed form lying against the great, gleaming panel. Thin, almost boneless arms were pasted against the hard metal; an oval, humanoid skull was crushed like an eggshell into the knobs and levers of the control panel. Sudden horror shot through the big man as he looked around. At the far side of the room was another of the things, and still another, mashed, like lifeless jelly, into the floors and panels. Gently he peeled a bit of jelly away from the metal, then turned with a mixture of wonder and disgust. "All dead," he muttered. Brownie looked up at him, his hands trembling. "No wonder there was no sign." He looked about helplessly. "It's a derelict, Johnny. A wanderer. How could it have happened? How long ago?" Sabo shook his head, bewildered. "Then it was just chance that it came to us, that we saw it -- " "No pilot, no charts. It might have wandered for centuries." Brownie stared about the room, a frightened look on his face. And then he was leaning over the control panel, probing at the array of levers, his fingers working eagerly at the wiring. Sabo nodded approvingly. "We'll have to go over it with a comb," he said. "I'll see what I can find in the rest of the ship. You go ahead on the controls and drive." Without waiting for an answer he moved swiftly from the round chamber, out into the corridor again, his stomach almost sick. It took them many hours. They moved silently, as if even a slight sound might disturb the sleeping alien forms, smashed against the dark metal panels. In another room were the charts, great, beautiful charts, totally unfamiliar, studded with star formations he had never seen, noted with curious, meaningless symbols. As Sabo worked he heard Brownie moving down into the depths of the ship, toward the giant engine rooms. And then, some silent alarm clicked into place in Sabo's mind, tightening his stomach, screaming to be heard. Heart pounding, he dashed down the corridor like a cat, seeing again in his mind the bright, eager eyes of the engineer. Suddenly the meaning of that eagerness dawned on him. He scampered down a ladder, along a corridor, and down another ladder, down to the engine room, almost colliding with Brownie as he crossed from one of the engines to a battery of generators on the far side of the room. "Brownie!" "What's the trouble?" Sabo trembled, then turned away. "Nothing," he muttered. "Just a thought." But he watched as the little man snaked into the labyrinth of dynamos and coils and wires, peering eagerly, probing, searching, making notes in the litderelict tie pad in his hand. Finally, hours later, they moved again toward the lock where they had left their sleds. Not a word passed between them. The uneasiness was strong in Sabo's mind now, growing deeper, mingling with fear and a premonition of impending evil. A dead ship, a derelict, come to them by merest chance from some unthinkably remote star. He cursed, without knowing why, and suddenly he felt he hated Brownie as much as he hated the captain waiting for them in the Station. But as he stepped into the Station's lock, a new thought crossed his mind, almost dazzling him with its unexpectedness. He looked at the engineer's thin face, and his hands were trembling as he opened the pressure suit. longer than was necessary to give his report to the captain, dwelling on unimportant details, watching with malicious amusement the captain's growing annoyance. Captain Loomis' eyes kept sliding to Brownie, as though trying to read the information he wanted from the engineer's face. Sabo rolled up the charts slowly, stowing them in a pile on the desk. 'That's the picture, sir. Perhaps a qualified astronomer could make something of it; I haven't the knowledge or the instruments. The ship came from outside the system, beyond doubt. Probably from a planet with lighter gravity than our own, judging from the frailty of the creatures. Oxygen breathers, from the looks of their gas storage. If you ask me, I'd say -- " "All right, all right," the captain breathed impatiently. "You can write it up and hand it to me. It isn't really important where they came from, or whether they breathe oxygen or fluorine." He turned his eyes to the engineer, and lit a cigar with trembling fingers." The important thing is how they got here. The drive, Brownie. You went over the engines carefully? What did you find?" Brownie twitched uneasily, and looked at the floor. "Oh, yes, I examined them carefully. Wasn't too hard. I examined every piece of drive machinery on the ship, from stem to stem." Sabo nodded, slowly, watching the little man with carefully blank face. "That's right. You gave it a good going over." Brownie licked his lips. "It's a derelict, like Johnny told you. They were dead. All of them. Probably had been dead for a long time. I couldn't tell, of course. Probably nobody could tell. But they must have been dead for centuries -- " The captain's eyes blinked as the implication sank in. "Wait a minute," he said. "What do you mean, centuries?" Browrfie stared at his shoes. "The atomic piles were almost dead," he muttered in an apologetic whine. "The ship wasn't going any place, captain. It was just wandering. Maybe it's wandered for thousands of years." He took a deep breath, and his eyes met the captain's for a brief agonized moment. "They don't have Interstellar, sir. Just plain, simple, slow atomics. Nothing different. They've been traveling for centuries, and it would have taken them just as long to get back. The captain's voice was thin, choked. "Are you trying to tell me that their drive is no different from our own? That a ship has actually wandered into Interstellar space without a space drive?" Brownie spread his hands helplessly. "Something must have gone wrong. They must have started off for another planet in their own system, and something went wrong. They broke into space, and they all died. And the ship just went on moving. They never intended an Interstellar hop. They couldn't have. They didn't have the drive for it." The captain sat back numbly, his face pasty gray. The light had faded in his eyes now; he sat as though he'd been struck. "You -- you couldn't be wrong? You couldn't have missed anything?" Brownie's eyes shifted unhappily, and his voice was very faint. "No,  jj sir. The captain stared at them for a long moment, like a stricken child. Slowly he picked up one of the charts, his mouth working. Then, with a bitter roar, he threw it in Sabo's face. "Get out of here! Take this garbage and get out! And get the men to their stations. We're here to watch Saturn, and by god, we'll watch Saturn!" He turned away, a hand over his eyes, and derelict they heard his choking breath as they left the cabin. Slowly, Brownie walked out into the corridor, started down toward his cabin, with Sabo silent at his heels. He looked up once at the mate's heavy face, a look of pleading in his dark brown eyes, and then opened the door to his quarters. Like a cat, Sabo was in the room before him, dragging him in, slamming the door. He caught the little man by the neck with one savage hand, and shoved him unceremoniously against the door, his voice a vicious whisper. "All right , talk! Let's have it now!" Brownie choked, his eyes bulging, his face turning gray in the dim light of the cabin. "Johnny! Let me down! What's the matter? You're choking me, Johnny -- " The mate's eyes were red, with heavy lines of disgust and bitterness running from his eyes and the corners of his mouth. "You stinking little liar! Talk, damn it! You're not messing with the captain now, you're messing with me, and I'll have the truth if I have to cave in your skull -- " "I told you the truth! I don't know what you mean -- " Sabo's palm smashed into his face, jerking his head about like an apple on a string. "That's the wrong answer," he grated. "I warn you, don't lie! The captain is an ambitious ass, he couldn't think his way through a multiplication table. He's a little child. But I'm not quite so dull." He threw the little man down in a heap, his eyes blazing. "You silly fool, your story is so full of holes you could drive a tank through it. They just up and died, did they? I'm supposed to believe that? Smashed up against the panels the way they were? Only one thing could crush them like that. Any fool could see it. Acceleration. And I don't mean atomic acceleration. Something else." He glared down at the man quivering on the floor. "They had Interstellar drive, didn't they, Brownie?" Brownie nodded his head, weakly, almost sobbing, trying to pull himself erect. "Don't tell the captain," he sobbed. "Oh, Johnny, for god's sake, listen to me, don't let him know I lied. I was going to tell you anyway, Johnny, really I was. I've got a plan, a good plan, can't you see it?" The gleam of excitement came back into the sharp little eyes. "They had it, all right. Their trip probably took just a few months. They had a drive I've never seen before, non-atomic. I couldn't tell the principle, with the look I had, but I think I could work it." He sat up, his whole body trembling. "Don't give me away, Johnny, listen a minute -- " Sabo sat back against the bunk, staring at the little man. "You're out of your mind," he said softly. "You don't know what you're doing. What are you going to do when his Nibs goes over for a look himself? He's stupid, but not that stupid." Brownie's voice choked, his words tumbling over each other in his eagerness. "He won't get a chance to see it, Johnny. He's got to take our word until he sees it, and we can stall him -- " Sabo blinked. "A day or so -- maybe. But what then? Oh, how could you be so stupid? He's on the skids, he's out of favor and fighting for his life. That drive is the break that could put him on top. Can't you see he's selfish? He has to be, in this world, to get anything. Anything or anyone who blocks him, he'll destroy, if he can. Can't you see that? When he spots this, your life won't be worth spitting at." Brownie was trembling as he sat down opposite the big man. His voice was harsh in the little cubicle, heavy with pain and hopelessness. "That's right," he said. "My life isn't worth a nickle. Neither is yours. Neither is anybody's, here or back home. Nobody's life is worth a nickle. Something's happened to us in the past hundred years, Johnny -- something horrible. I've seen it creeping and growing up around us all my life. People don't matter any more, it's the Government, what the Government thinks that matters. It's a web, a cancer that grows in its own pattern, until it goes so far it can't be stopped. Men like Loomis could see the pattern, and adapt to it, throw away all the worthwhile things, the love and beauty and peace that we once had in our lives. Those men can get somewhere, they can turn this life into a climbing game, waiting their chance to get a little farther toward the top, a little closer to some semblance of security -- " "Everybody adapts to it," Sabo snapped. "They have to. You don't see me moving for anyone else, do you? I'm for me, and believe me I know it. I don't give a hang for you, or Loomis, or anyone else alive -- just me. I want to stay alive, that's all. You're a dreamer, Brownie. But until you pull something like this, you can learn to stop dreaming if you want to -- " "No, no, you're wrong -- oh, you're horribly wrong, Tohnny. Some of us can't adapt, we haven't got what it takes, or else we have something else in us that won't let us go along. And right there we're beat before we start. There's no place for us now, and there never will be." He looked up at the mate's impassive face. "We're in a life where we don't belong, impounded into a senseless, neverending series of fights and skirmishes and long, lonely waits, feeding this insane urge of the Government to expand, out to the planets, to the stars, farther and farther, bigger and bigger. We've got to go, seeking newer and greater worlds to conquer, with nothing to conquer them with, and nothing to conquer them for. There's life somewhere else in our solar system, so it must be sought out and conquered, no matter what or where it is. We live in a world of iron and fear, and there was no place for me, and others like me, until this ship came -- " Sabo looked at him strangely. "So I was right. I read it on your face when we were searching the ship. I knew what you were thinking..." His face darkened angrily. "You couldn't get away with it, Brownie. Where could you go, what could you expect to find? You're talking death, Brownie. Nothing else -- " "No, no. Listen, Johnny." Brownie leaned closer, his eyes bright and intent on the man's heavy face. "The captain has to take our word for it, until he sees derelict the ship. Even then he couldn't tell for sure -- I'm the only drive engineer on the Station. We have the charts, we could work with them, try to find out where the ship came from; I already have an idea of how the drive is operated. Another look and I could make it work. Think of it, Johnny! What difference does it make where we went, or what we found? You're a misfit, too, you know that -- this coarseness and bitterness is a shell, if you could only see it, a sham. You don't really believe in this world we're in -- who cares where, if only we could go, get away? Oh, it's a chance, the wildest, freak chance, but we could take it -- " "If only to get away from him ," said Sabo in a muted voice. "Lord, how I hate him. I've seen smallness and ambition before -- pettiness and treachery, plenty of it. But that man is our whole world knotted up in one little ball. I don't him, just to stop that voice from talking, just to see fear cross his face one time. But if we took the ship, it would break him for good." A new light appeared in the big man's eyes. "He'd be through, Brownie. Washed up." "And we'd be free -- " Sabo's eyes were sharp. "What about the acceleration? It killed those that came in the ship." "But they were so frail, so weak. Light brittle bones and soft jelly. Our bodies are stronger, we could stand it." Sabo sat for a long time, staring at Brownie. His mind was suddenly confused by the scope of the idea, racing in myriad twirling fantasies, parading before his eyes the long, bitter, frustrating years, the hopelessness of his own life, the dull aching feeling he felt deep in his stomach and bones each time he set back down on Earth, to join the teeming throngs of hungry people. He thought of the rows of drab apartments, the thin faces, the hollow, hunted eyes of the people he had seen. He knew that that was why he was a soldier -- because soldiers ate well, they had time to sleep, they were never allowed long hours to think, and wonder, and grow dull and empty. But he knew his life had been barren. The life of a mindless automaton, moving from place to place, never thinking, never daring to think or speak, hoping only to work without pain each day, and sleep without nightmares. And then, he thought of the nights in his childhood, when he had lain awake, sweating with fear, as the airships screamed across the dark sky above, bound he never knew where; and then, hearing in the far distance the booming explosion, he had played that horrible little game with himself, seeing how high he could count before he heard the weary, plodding footsteps of the people on the road, moving on to another place. He had known, even as a little boy, that the only safe place was in those bombers, that the place for survival was in the striking armies, and his life had followed the hard-learned pattern, twisting him into the cynical mold of the mercenary soldier, dulling the quick and clever mind, sponses of order and obey, stripping him of his heritage of love and humanity. Others less thoughtful had been happier; they had succeeded in forgetting the life they had known before, they had been able to learn easily and well the lessons of the repudiation of the rights of men which had crept like a blight through the world. But Sabo, too, was a misfit, wrenched into a mold he could not fit. He had sensed it vaguely, never really knowing when or how he had built the shell of toughness and cynicism, but also sensing vaguely that it was built, and that in it he could hide, somehow, and laugh at himself, and his leaders, and the whole world through which he plodded. He had laughed, but there had been long nights, in the narrow darkness of spaceship bunks, when his mind pounded at the shell, screaming out in nightmare, and he had wondered if he had really lost his mind. His gray eyes narrowed as he looked at Brownie, and he felt his heart pounding in his chest, pounding with a fury that he could no longer deny. "It would have to be fast," he said softly. "Like lightning, tonight, tomorrow -- very soon." "Oh, yes, I know that. But we can do it -- " "Yes," said Sabo, with a hard, bitter glint in his eyes. "Maybe we can." tense. For the first time in his life, Sabo knew the meaning of real fear, felt the clinging aura of sudden death in every glance, every word of the men around him. It seemed incredible that the captain didn't notice the brief exchanges with the little engineer, or his own sudden appearances and disappearances about the Station. But the captain sat in his cabin with angry eyes, snapping answers without even looking up. Still, Sabo knew that the seeds of suspicion lay planted in his mind, ready to burst forth with awful violence at any slight provocation. As he worked, the escape assumed greater and greater proportions in Sabo's mind; he knew with increasing urgency and daring that nothing must stop him. The ship was there, the only bridge away from a life he could no longer endure, and his determination blinded him to caution. Primarily, he pondered over the charts, while Brownie, growing hourly more nervous, poured his heart into a study of his notes and sketches. A second look at the engines was essential; the excuse he concocted for returning to the ship was recklessly slender, and Sabo spent a grueling five minutes dissuading the captain from accompanying him. But the captain's eyes were dull, and he walked his cabin, sunk in a gloomy, remorseful trance. The hours passed, and the men saw, in despair, that more precious, dangerous hours would be necessary before the flight could be attempted. And then, abruptly, Sabo got the call to the captain's cabin. He found the old man at his desk, regarding him with cold eyes, and his heart sank. The captain motioned him to a seat, and then sat derelict back, lighting a cigar with painful slowness. "I want you to tell me," he said in a lifeless voice, "exactly what Brownie thinks he's doing." Sabo went cold. Carefully he kept his eyes on the captain's face. "I guess he's nervous," he said. "He doesn't belong on a Satellite Station. He belongs at home. The place gets on his nerves." "I didn't like his report." "I know," said Sabo. The captain's eyes narrowed. "It was hard to believe. Ships don't just happen out of space. They don't wander out interstellar by accident, either." An unpleasant smile curled his lips. "I'm not telling you anything new. I wouldn't want to accuse Brownie of lying, of course -- or you either. But we'll know soon. A patrol craft will be here from the Triton supply base in an hour. I signalled as soon as I had your reports." The smile broadened maliciously. "The patrol craft will have experts aboard. Space drive experts. They'll review your report." "An hour -- " The captain smiled. "That's what I said. In that hour, you could tell me the truth. I'm not a drive man, I'm an administrator, and organizer and director. You're the technicians. The truth now could save you much unhappiness -- in the future." Sabo stood up heavily. "You've got your information," he said with a bitter laugh. "The patrol craft will confirm it." The captain's face went a shade greyer. "All right," he said. "Go ahead, laugh. I told you, anyway." Sabo didn't realize how his hands were trembling until he reached the end of the corridor. In despair he saw the plan crumbling beneath his feet, and with the despair came the cold undercurrent of fear. The patrol would discover them, disclose the hoax. There was no choice left -- ready or not, they'd have to leave. Quickly he turned in to the central control room where Brownie was working. He sat down, repeating the captain's news in a soft voice. "An hour! But how can we -- " "We've got to. We can't quit now, we're dead if we do." Brownie's eyes were wide with fear. "But can't we stall them, somehow? Maybe if we turned on the captain -- " "The crew would back him. They wouldn't dare go along with us. We've got to run, nothing else." He took a deep breath. "Can you control the drive?" Brownie stared at his hands. "I -- I think so. I can only try." "You've got to. It's now or never. Get down to the lock, and I'll get the charts. Get the sleds ready." He scooped the charts from his bunk, folded them carefully and bound them swiftly with cord. Then he ran silently down the corridor to the landing port lock. Brownie was already there, in the darkness, closing the last clamps on his pressure suit. Sabo handed him the charts, and began the laborious task of climbing into his own suit, panting in the darkness. And then the alarm was clanging in his ear, and the lock was stopped short, a cry on his lips, staring at the entrance to the control room. The captain was grinning, a nasty, evil grin, his eyes hard and humorless as he stood there flanked by three crewmen. His hand gripped an ugly power gun tightly. He just stood there, grinning, and his voice was like fire in Sabo's ears. "Too bad," he said softly. "You almost made it, too. Trouble is, two can't keep a secret. Shame, Johnny, a smart fellow like you. I might have expected as much from Brownie, but I thought you had more sense -- " Something snapped in Sabo's mind, then. With a roar, he lunged at the captain's feet, screaming his bitterness and rage and frustration, catching the old man's calves with his powerful shoulders. The captain toppled, and Sabo was fighting for the power gun, straining with all his might to twist the gun from the thin hand, and he heard his voice shouting, "Run! Go, Brownie , make it go!" The lock was open, and he saw Brownie's sled nose out into the blackness. The captain choked, his face purple. "Get him! Don't let him get away!" The lock clanged, and the screens showed the tiny fragile sled jet out from the side of the Station, the small huddled figure clinging to it, heading straight for the open port of the grey ship. "Stop him! The guns, you fools, the guns!" The alarm still clanged, and the control room was a flurry of activity. Three men snapped down behind the tracer-guns, firing without aiming, in a frenzied attempt to catch the fleeing sled. The sled began zig-zagging, twisting wildly as the shells popped on either side of it. The captain twisted away from Sabo's grip with a roar, and threw one of the crewmen to the deck, wrenching the gun controls from his hands. "Get the big ones on the ship! Blast it! If it gets away you'll all pay." Suddenly the sled popped into the ship's port, and the hatch slowly closed behind it. Raving, the captain turned the gun on the sleek, polished hull plates, pressed the firing levels on the war-head servos. Three of them shot out from the Satellite, like deadly bugs, careening through the intervening space, until one of them struck the side of the gray ship, and exploded in purple fury against the impervious hull. And the others nosed into the flame, and passed on through, striking nothing. Like the blinking of a light, the alien ship had throbbed, and jerked, and was gone. With a roar the captain brought his fist down on the hard plastic and metal of the control panel, kicked at the sheet of knobs and levers with a heavy foot, his face purple with rage. His whole body shook as he turned on Sabo, his eyes wild. "You let him get away! It was your fault, yours! But you won't get away! I've got you, and you'll pay, do you hear that?" He pulled himself up until his face was bare inches from Sabo's, his teeth bared in a frenzy of hatred. "Now we'll see who'll laugh, my friend. You'll laugh in the death chamber, if you can still laugh by then!" He turned to the men around him. "Take him," he snarled. "Lock him derelict in his quarters, and guard him well. And while you're doing it, take a good look at him. See how he laughs now." They marched him down to his cabin, stunned, still wondering what had happened. Something had gone in his mind in that second, something that told him that the choice had to be made, instantly. Because he knew, with dull wonder, that in that instant when the lights went on he could have stopped Brownie, could have saved himself. He could have taken for himself a piece of the glory and promotion due to the discoverers of an Interstellar drive. But he had also known, somehow, in that short instant, that the only hope in the world lay in that one nervous, frightened man, and the ship which could take him away. And the ship was gone. That meant the captain was through. He'd had his chance, the ship's coming had given him his chance, and he had muffed it. Now he, too, would pay. The Government would not be pleased that such a ship had leaked through his fingers. Captain Loomis was through. And him? Somehow, it didn't seem to matter any more. He had made a stab at it, he had tried. He just hadn't had the luck. But he knew there was more to that. Something in his mind was singing, some deep feeling of happiness and hope had crept into his mind, and he couldn't worry about himself any more. There was nothing more for him; they had him cold. But deep in his mind he felt a curious satisfaction, transcending any fear and bitterness. Deep in his heart, he knew that one man had escaped. And then he sat back and laughed. (Continued from, page #) And beside the farmhouse, on the ground, lay a pipe, its tobacco spilled, the last of its smoke swirling out of its bowl into the air, disappearing. The woman sat in the kitchen of the farmhouse and turned her head when the door opened. She widened her eyes and caught at her throat with her hand. The sun through the doorway shone down on metallic hands and a metallic face, gleaming on the surface which the straw hat and the overalls and the blue shirt didn't hide. The door snapped shut, and there was a sound of heavy metal footsteps against the kitchen floor. The woman pressed against her chair. "Who are you?" she screamed. "Henry," said the mechanical thing. Thorns, the vengeful, had determined his way. Aria, the healer, had determined her way. Which determined this classic meeting of the twain. By Richard E. Stockham Illustrated by Ed Emsh for years as they were arguing tonight. The man paced back and forth chain-smoking cigarettes; the woman sat motionless, watching him. They glanced at their watches with fearful eyes. They heard, with acutely alert ears, the goings and comings of people in the hall ; heard the shattering blast of rockets in the sky above the city. And they argued. "So you're going through with it tonight," he said heavily, "in your own way." "Yes." "Perhaps I should stop you." He crushed out his cigarette. "If the police were to hear -- " "No!" The word was thrown at him. "I know you don't mean that. But it's unworthy of you even to say it." She covered her face with nervous hands. "After all I am your wife." He stood over her, his lips tight. There was something of the fragile, finely made puppet about her, he thought, as though she had been refashioned a hundred times by some artisan seeking after perfect delicacy and precision. He softened momentarily. "Come with me then," he said. "No." "Why? Why?" "Your way is wrong" "We're the last two leaders of the opposition alive." His voice came swiftly and low. "The authority's beaten us. Their setup for killing, imprisonment, bribery and blackmail functions too well. Our whole organization's been scattered like matchsticks. The police are closing in on us. We're finished here on earth. We'll be lucky if we're killed quickly." He waited a moment for his words to take effect. "We go along together that far." She stood, clasping her hands. "Of course. Of course." "Look. I know you've finished that damned contraption of yours that'll take you into the atoms. I know you've been working on it for years. But I've been working too. My ship's been ready to take off into super-space for two days. But I haven't gone. I've been waiting for you. To wait at a time like this is to ask for death or worse. Now I demand you give up this insane idea of going into the atoms. You've got to come with me." "I've told you I can't escape with you out into the macrocosm. It's not my way ! # "The word 'escape' doesn't apply," he snapped, "to what I'm doing. You # re escaping. You'll creep into the microcosm and sit there like a seed that won't grow. You can't fight the Authority from the microcosm. That way is utter passivity and death. My way is fighting back. I'm going into hyperspace. My ship and I'll become so huge and powerful I'll throw suns around like snowballs. I'll toss meteors around like grains of corn. I'll upset gravities and warp time. I'll stretch and straighten space. I'll turn dimensions inside out -- " "Yes. You'll destroy. You'll ruin everything, you'll break the innocent as well as the guilty." "I'll have to take that chance," he said grimly. "But I'll destroy the Authority and everything that goes with it." She pulled from his grasp. "Violence and destruction are not my way. They never have been." Slowly now she sank into the chair, looked past him as she spoke. "You've always worshipped spaces and vacuums and voids. I've always been happy working with flowers and trees, the life of the meadow and valley, the rain and the new, small buds in springtime. We have always gone in opposite directions." She paused and smiled a bit wistfully. "It's funny. Now we find, too late to help our marriage, that there's a whole universe between us. You refuse, or perhaps you're afraid, I don't know, to go to the source of everything -- this table, this chair, this gown, your own. flesh. You don't want to understand life ; any more than you want to understand me. You must conquer it -- or destroy it. You must be a giant that can kick the earth around like a football. But I do want to understand, for in understanding lies the cure. My machine will take me into the atoms. I'll become part of the fabric and tapestry of the very warp and woof of our world. By becoming a part of it, I will know. I'll find the secret of life in inner space and I'll return and release our people from the Authority. And you? You'll never really understand anything. You'll be a wild comet, yes, but I'll be a raindrop in a deep well, learning patience. I'll be a true healer." For a moment sadness rose and softened his face. "There's nothing more to say, is there." "I'm afraid not." "We'll make the goodbys quick." He came to her. "At least we're being honest with each other. No lies. No pettiness. We've developed pretty powerful ideals. And they just won't fit together. It's that simple -- and that good." She looked up at him and smiled. "At least I haven't lost you to another woman." He returned her smile. "We're getting sentimental. This isn't good. It's weakening." He bent and lightly kissed her hair. For an instant her breathing stopped. "Goodby." "Goodby," she whispered. He strode to the door and opened it. His body snapped taut. drawn blaster, stood a man in the shining red garb of the police command. He resembled Mephisto with his flowing cape and snug trousers. His face was dark, his nose thin, his eyes black and very bright. "You seem surprised," said the man in red. Aria had half risen from the chair... As the eyes of the policeman turned on her, she sank back. "How opportune," the policeman continued. "The eve of your departures." The smile set on his mouth. His gun snapped up on a line with Thorus' heart. "No sudden moves, or you'll be burnt to a cinder. But no. That's what you want -- a quick death. So let me threaten you with merely burning your legs off." The blaster lowered. "It may interest you to know we have a recording of your whole conversation. But there's something else." His eyes holding Thorus, he gave a sharp command to two burly, bullnecked policemen. They stepped from the shadows and stood behind the commander. One held a small, black box. "I see," the commander said, "You've had experience before with the truth clamps. You're frightened." Thorus motioned the commander inside. "A little fear trickles through my hate." The door swung shut behind the three policemen. Thorus glanced at Aria. Her fingers clutched the arms of the chair. He knew she was thinking of the blocks that had recently been installed in their minds by X-ray hypnosis. Would the blocks hold after three days? Three days, they both knew was the limit. "It's your methods of escape we must have," said the commander. He motioned to one of the policemen. Thorus watched the man step in front of him and raise the clamps to his forehead. He saw features that were thick and heavy, as though they had been roughly moulded out of too wet clay. "You can see," the commander went on, "the tremendous advantage to us of being able to go into the macrocosm and toss meteors around like bits of com, as you say." He glanced at Aria, who sat huddled in the chair, like a porcelain doll. "And then into the microcosm. Unlimited power. A whole new universe to conquer and colonize. Aria did not move or speak. "I see she refuses to face reality." He turned to Thorns. "But you will face reality -- and so will she when we've finished. Had you conducted your experiments in behalf of the Authority, you would have been well rewarded. But no, you have been working against us -- however, it has been for the Authority after all." Thorus felt the clamps tight on his temples, like two steel fingers. Sitting stiffly on a chair, he felt sweat on his back and chest, felt it seep from his forehead down into his eyes, felt the bum of salt. There was tightness all through him as he waited for the first shock. His fingernails cut his palms. His breath stopped. His shoulders and arms hardened, stretched tight his tunic. The commander flicked his finger at the one kneeling before the little black box. This one tripped a lever. A soft hum seemed to rise from the box and fill the room. Thorus listened to the hum grow until it was a soft, high pitched scream. He closed his eyes. The next instant a shattering blow ripped through every inch of his body. Fire ran along his nerves. He felt his lips grimacing away from his teeth, felt the comers of his mouth stretching back to his ears. Oh God, oh God, he cried out in silent agony. Hold back my screams. Then he heard himself groan. He cut off the sound of it. Choked. Heard a growl deep in his chest. Lights flashed in his eyes and there was a tearing apart through his whole body. A squeezing together rushed all around him and an insane pounding and pulling as though his flesh were being beaten and clawed from his bones. Time dropped away from him until it seemed he had never been aware of anything but this agony. Then he was empty of sensation. He felt himself fall forward, felt heavy hands catch him roughly and set him upright. The soft voice of the commander flowed into his mind like a voice from outer space: "You will tell us your method of going into the macrocosm. The equations, the type ship, its propellent, where the ship is hidden. Thorus felt enveloped in a void. The voice of the commander droned on. "All we need is a clue. We'll work out the rest." Life and feeling and thought were surging back into Thoms now. Strength filled his muscles again. Sight came into his eyes. Again he sat straight and stiff on the chair. The block held, he thought. It held and they cannot know now!" "Speak!" The commander's voice rose. "Damn you!" He seized Thorus by the hair. "You've blocked off the information. I'll see both of you tortured until you'll wish to kill each other. Then we'll try the clamps again. He smashed his fist into Thoms' face. On the instant the commander pulled back his fist, Thoms reached out and jerked the blaster from his belt. His foot came up hard against the man's groin. There was a grunting cry of pain. Thorus fell backward off the stool, pressing the blaster trigger as he hit the floor. He saw blood gush from the commander's middle, saw him pitch sideways, like a broken statue, heard Aria's scream. The clamps pulled from his head. He swung the gun's muzzle to the two policemen, clawing at their holsters. The blaster struck out, a long coughing hiss, a spray of flame. There were cries and gasps and jerking and clutching and the scrambling fall of the two bodies. Then silence. Thorus crawled unsteadily to his feet, stood swaying. The gun hung loosely in his hand. Now he felt Aria close to him, heard her voice trembling and breathy. "Thorus! Are you all right?" "Yes." "The blocks held! They held!" Steadying himself, he saw Aria glance at the bodies on the floor. "Destruction!" she shuddered. "Nothing but destruction. Oh God, I'm sick of it!" Thorus let the gun drop to the floor. "There's no time to talk. Your laboratory." He grasped her by the shoulders and turned her toward a bright steel door across the room. " You'll save time to go into your damned microcosm. You'll make it. Good luck. If I have any luck at all, I'll make it too." He gave her a push. Without speaking or turning back, she moved across the room, as though sleep walking... The gleaming door slab slid back as she approached it, closed behind her. The memory of her face stayed in his mind for a long moment after she had disappeared, and from the room's atmosphere he seemed to breathe in regret and a sense of their failure. He turned abruptly, looked down at each crumpled body. Opening the door a crack, he searched the brightly lighted street for the figure of a policeman, saw none, stepped outside and ran. deftly, swiftly at the transparent body-length cylinder. She checked wire connections, dials, buttons, then opened one end of the tube, lowered herself into place, when she had closed the tube, she lay still, the forefinger of her right hand resting on a button. During all these preparations, she was viewing, with her inner sight, Thorus' tiny ship streaking through the night toward a distant mountain peak where a small metal ball, large enough for one man, sat shrouded by a screen of invisibility. Now she saw the streak of flame die in the night and the tiny ship sitting motionless beside the metal ball; saw Thorus open a hatch in the ball's side, let himself through the opening and swing shut the circle of steel. "Thank God," she said. "Whatever comes now, at least he's made it." Wiping away the vision of him, she hesitated a moment, said goodby to earth and life as she'd known it and would never know it again. A moment of yearning for a chance to live safely and well as a wife and mother swept her with sadness. The yearning held her finger from the button; a final hugging of human love and full human life, a last lonely cry for earth as she had known it in childhood with the press of wind and the touch and sight of green growing things and the depth of blue above and the ground beneath. Feeling then as though she were plunging into midnight ocean depths, she thrust her finger hard against the button! Instantly light shimmered all about! The room dissolved. A sense of dreaming too vividly, yet of being deep in a sleep that was a thousand times more acutely awake than any awakeness she had ever known filled all her being. She felt herself sinking into a great bottomless depth and yet at the same time soaring through space to the ends of the universe, until both falling and soaring flowed into each other and became suspension. And then suddenly she saw all things as one. She saw the intricate design of a snowflake that was the snows of all the earth and a drop of water that held all the oceans. There was the rhythmic beating all around as though of a great, omnipresent heart and the surge and flow of oceans of lifeblood and the rise and fall of eternal breathing. A speck of soil was the soil of all the earth, from which grew forests and fields of green. She let herself out into the space of all this and was merely there, like time is, where there is the motion and change of birth and death and birth again and death again. She felt a gentle touch on her body that was the body of all mankind and knew it for the touch of air, a single element of all earth's winds that yet was all the clear winds of earth. The next moment a thundrous roar crashed like a tidal wave. She felt a gigantic shaking in all the snow and water, in the oceans and mountains, in the air and wind, in the blood and life and beating heart. A faltering of the rhythm and flow went, like a cosmic shudder, through all this life and through her own being so that she was conscious of nausea and ache and a violent flinging about. She had a sense then of pulling within herself, like a sea anemone that has been touched by an enemy. And in her silent voice, she cried out, "Thorns!" In the macrocosm. Thorus destroying! Destroying! The next instant her inner sight swung back to where Thoms' ship, the shining metal ball, had leapt up off the mountain of earth; leapt, in the fraction of a second, through the blue earth covering into black, outer space. Her inner sight saw the metal ball inflating, a cosmic baloon, flashing like the sun, then seeming to fill the space between all the suns! conscious of being a colossus that could step from planet to planet as though he were using them for stones to cross a pond of earth water. Step past the solar system, he thought, out into the universe. Now the sun became a tiny ball of fire, a lightning bug, the earth a grain of dust. He could blow out the light of the sun, flick Earth and the other planets into nothingness. "I've broken through," he thought. "I've done it! I've been released." And looking out and away, he saw universe upon universe extending past infinity, it seemed, an ocean without a horizon. Now, said his thought, I will destroy all evil and I shall begin with the evil of earth. As though he were looking through a microscope, he focused his sight on the grain of dust that was earth. His fingers made delicate adjustments on a dial, and earth, softly green and blue, swam clearly into his vision. He magnified his sight of earth until he could see all of it like a gigantic relief map. He saw the fortified places of the Authority -- great, spreading, shining, metal domes; saw them dotting the earth; saw the lines of vehicles speeding back and forth between them. He saw too the hamlets of the people, in the spaces between the forts of the Authority, all places of squalor with row upon row of boxlike houses, each exactly like the other. There were not any green lawns or shade trees, only houses and streets and people moving about. Thorus felt his anger rise. He pressed a button that flung out fields of gravity. Earth rocked and heaved, like an animal in convulsions. Volcanos exploded, shot out their flaming, poisonous refuse. Oceans were monsters writhing and rolling in their troughs, reaching onto the land, as though to pull it beneath them. And the land itself split wide and snapped shut great, yawning jaws. There was a wild rushing about among all the people, a madness, as though frantic motion would save them. They looked up off the convulsed earth with panic stricken eyes, their voices raised in agony. Thorus' voice sounded, "The time for the death of the Authority has come. I will crush them as though I were crushing snails. He reached out from the ship with rays that seized meteors and flung them like a schoolboy flinging stones at bottles, one by one against the massive, shining domes of the Authority. The domes cracked and split and were crushed. The atomic bombs broke open with flame that leapt up yellow tongues and grew mushrooms in the sky, and a burning death spread all around. Then Thorus was quiet, watching all that he had destroyed. But suddenly, he became aware of Aria's thought within him, crying out. "Destroyer! Murderer! In moments you've set humanity back a hundred thousand years. You're worse than the Authority. There'll never be any peace for you or for the earth or even the universe after what you've done. Other Authorities will come and you'll have to destroy them and others and others. Destruction for you forever, on and on, until you fill the universe with it..." In his mind, Thorus saw her among the falling snowflakes and the drops of cool water and the green, growing atoms; saw her in the transparent tube sink deeper and deeper into the microcosm, away and away like a minnow swimming down into a beautiful lake on a summer's day. Deeper, ever deeper, until there was nothing but the blue, sleepy water. As Thorus looked upon the earth again and saw the terrible destruction he had wrought, he trembled. There was the realization in him that, beneath his consciousness, had lain the hope that, after he had wiped clean the earth, Aria's healing power would remake it. But now there would be no healing, and for thousands of years earth would lie a smoking ruins with the people crawling about its shattered surface like bugs. He turned from all he saw. He closed his eyes and threw his ship out into space, threw it away into the fathomless void. He must escape from the universe, must flee from the horror that filled him at the desolation he had wrought. Straight out into space, out into the forever, where earth would cease to exist, where he and his remorse would be lost. streaked past yet he seemed within himself to be hanging motionless in an infinite sea of blackness while he knew that the speed of him cracked through the barrier of time and space; knew that it was a speed beyond any conceived by the mind of man. On into forgetfulness, escape beyond his memory, faster and farther away than his mind, so far away that even earth would disappear in his thought. As incredible distances stretched almost to breaking between himself and earth, he thought : So this is the end. For all I've been and wanted to be, this is it. A nothingness beyond the universe. But as the last word went from his thought, he saw a greenish blue ball of light rush toward him. He watched it inflate in the port. It enveloped the whole ship. The suns and the galaxies had faded into nothingness. He was aware of sinking into eternal depths but at the same time he felt himself soaring until sinking and soaring flowed into each other. After a time, he saw shimmering white crystals encircling his ship. And then the encircling crystals became one snowflake reflecting light like the moon. A great wonder filled him and he stared in overwhelming awe. He heard his own heartbeat in his body and outside the ship, holding the ship in an eternal throbbing; heard the flowing of his own blood like a turbulent river; heard his breathing become the ebb and flow of wind, like the sound of surf. His body too became the soil of earth and its rock and water and he was deeply conscious of growth all through him. He was birth and death and he was both in one and he was the life of mankind, of animals, of plants. As he waited in what seemed to be eternity, sunlight broke into his sight and he saw a field of grass forming around his ship. Blue sky swam into focus above him. White cloud patches formed in the blue as though they had been ordered there by the word of creation. Thorns knew then that he was on earth again, that he had come up from deep inside it. Rising up, like one awakening uncertainly from sleep in a strange room, he opened the ship's hatch and looked out upon the land. A flash of light caught his eyes then, from above, and he looked up in wonder. He gasped. der, sinking down through the blue, like a leaf, settling gently to the earth a hundred feet away. She crawled out and stood looking across the field of grass at him, a strange, smile on her face. Thoms leaped from his ship and ran toward her. He ran silently. She held out her hands and he grasped them tenderly, as he would grasp the hands of a child. And all he could say was, "Aria. Aria." "Thoms," she said, and there was courage and joy in her voice. "We've come back." They stared into each other's eyes for a long moment and then they were close, and they held to each other and swayed. "Do you know what's happened?" she said. "Yes. You came back through hyper-space while I came back through the atoms." His voice was quiet. "Oh, Lord. Oh good and strange Lord. We forgot that one of the great men twenty thousand years ago, proved that space was curved." "Yes." She stood away from him now, yet held to his hand. "We couldn't escape from our place in life or ourselves or the good and the evil that we have done. We came back to our earth and now we must do what we have left undone." There was much to be done. Thoms looked around. He saw in the distance a cmshed and smoking mins. "I've destroyed the Authority, but I've destroyed too much. Now the people are in chaos." Aria stood silently awhile, and then moved his arm. "But now you can help me to heal them. You've seen in the microcosm, as I have in the macrocosm that all life is one. Now we can show the people that outer and inner space are not separate. We can show them how they exist together and how there can be no escape in either or from either. It will take a long time. But we will do it. And the doing will be grand." She paused. "The beginning and the end, Thorns. The greatness and the smallness. The light and the darkness. It's all here." "And all that's in between. That too." "Yes," she answered quietly. "That too." They turned to the smoking ruins and arm in arm began walking toward it. Twenty years is a long time to live in anticipation. At least , Professor Pettibone thought so -- until the twenty years were up. Say "Hello" for Ale of course Professor Pettibone had no way of knowing it. He arose, as he had been doing for the previous twenty years, donned the tattered remnants of his space suit, and went out into the open. He stood erect, bronzed, magnificent, faced distant Earth, and recited : "Good morning bright sunshine, We're glad you are here. You make the world happy, And bring us good cheer." It was something he had heard as a child and, isolated here on Mars, he had remembered it and used it to keep from losing his power of speech. The ritual finished, he walked to the edge of the nearest canal, and gathered a bushel or so of dried Martian moss. He returned and began polishing the shiny exterior of the wrecked space ship. It had to really glitter if it was to be an effective beacon in guiding the rescue ship. Professor Pettibone knew -- had known for years -- that a ship would come. It was just a matter of time, and as the years slipped by, his faith diminished not a whit. With his task half completed, he glanced up at the sun and quickened the polishing. It was a long walk to the place the berry bushes grew, and if he arrived too late, the sun would have dried out the night's crop of fragile berrys and he would wait until the morrow for nourishment. But on this day, he was fated to arrive at the bush area not at all, because an alien sound from above again drew the Professor's eyes from his work, and he knew that the day had arrived. The ship was three times as large as any he had ever visualized, and its futuristic design told him, sharply, how far he fallen behind in his dreaming. He smiled and said, quite calmly. "I daresay I am about to be rescued." And he experienced a thrill as the great ship set down and two men emerged therefrom. A thrill tinged with a guilt-sense, because emotional experiences were rare in an isolated life and seemed somehow indecent. The two men held weapons. They advanced upon Professor Pettibone, looked up into his face, reflected a certain wary hostility. That the hostility was tinged with instinctive respect, even awe, made it no less potent. One of them asked. "Fella -- man came in ship -- sky boat -- long time ago. Him dead? Where?" Appropriate gestures accompanied the words. Professor Pettibone smiled down at the little men and bowed. "You are of course referring to me. I came in the ship. I am Professor Pettibone. It was nice of you to hunt me up." The eyes of the two Terran spacemen met and locked in startled inquiry. One of them voiced the reaction of both when he said, "What the hell -- " "You no doubt are curious as to the fate of the other members of the expedition. They were killed, all save Fletcher, who lasted a week." Professor Pettibone waved a hand. "There -- in the graveyard." But their eyes remained on the only survivor of that ill-fated first expedition. It was hard to accept him as the man they sought, but, faced with undeniable similarity between what they expected and what they had found, the two spacemen had no alternative. "I hope your food supply is ample -- and varied," Professor Pettibone said. This seemed to bring them out of their bemusement. "Of course, Professor. Would you care to come aboard?" The other made a try at congenial levity. "You must be pretty hungry after twenty years." "Really -- has it been that long? I tried to keep track at first..." "We can blast off anytime you say. You're probably pretty anxious to get back." "Indeed I am. The changes, in twenty years -- must be breathtaking. I wonder if they'll remember me?" A short time later, the Professor said, "It's amazing. A ship of this size handled by only two men." Then he sat down to a repast laid out by one of the awed spacemen. But, after nibbling a bit of this, a forkful of that, he found that satisfaction lay in the anticipation moreso than in the eating. "We'll look around and see what we can find in the way of clothing for you, Professor," one of the spacemen said. Then the man's bemusement returned. His eyes traveled over the magnificent physique before him. The perfect giant of a man; the great, Apollo-like head with the calm, clear eyes; the expression of complete contentment and serenity. The space man said, "Professor -- to what do you attribute the changes in your body. What is there about this planet -- ?" "I really don't know." Professor Pettibone looked down his torso with an impersonal eye. "I think the greenish skin pigmentation is a result of mineral-heavy vapors that occur during certain seasons. The growth. As to my body -- I real( Continued on page # ) :#m This story concerns a contest, a contestant and a beautiful wife; also, perhaps, that ancient Biblical quotation that says " take therefore no thought for the morrow ; for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself". The Contest By Gavin Hyde Illustrated by Orban center of the city in the yellow early afternoon, increasingly annoyed by the intrusion of unimportant domestic memories that his mind relived, not without embarrassment, and a sense of his own failing. Today, when he had turned to her at the door, he could have said, "Goodbye, I'll see you in an hour or so." There were many things he could have said which would have freed him from his conscience during his walk down. But he couldn't. He tightened up and could say nothing of how he felt. For his mind was tense with the anticipated combat to soon take place in a cubicle behind the great hanging thought-transmission screen. The cubicle and thoughttransmission screen had been in use continuously until yesterday, but now they were idle, along with the two TT machines, waiting for the last round in the contest. She should understand -- on today, of all days! He never spoke to anyone before a match. Speech disturbed the strength and color of one's thoughts because it was more difficult than thinking. It also involved the acceptance of another personality. In the contest, acceptance was a very bad thing. So was this memory analysis, Cyl thought. Asking himself why he hadn't spoken to his wife! This slipping back in the train of thought would never do in the contest. That was the theory of Jons, the foremost analyst of developments, anyway. What was it he said in the Thought-Transmission Annual? "The contest consists of the conflict between two imaginations. Each must analyze the interest and logic of the other, trying to possess the resultant theme through complex development of thought. The drive, the momentum of the imagination is the telling factor in the contest." Cyl had studied that statement! It had been released by Jons after his tragic retirement. Like other philosophers who had dreamed of perpetual control and championship, he had been eliminated soon after the birth of the contest -- when the powerful and mercenary sponsors moved in, bringing with them their strange assortment of thinkers. One year the contest was won by a barber who could maintain the most powerful (and infinitely boring) thought train based on current events, suicides, wrecks, filibusters, sports, and scandals. Rumor said that his simple training consisted of a glance at the morning paper. Then there was the fisherman who could turn from the most delicate winding of a gold silken thread on a trout fly to the baleful glare of a giant squid, almost, it seemed, "faster than the transmission of thought." People had only heard about the new and exciting thought-transmission device when a last holdout of the decadent "Quiz" show M.C.'s decided it would be a good gag to get a married man from the audience, put him on-stage with a beautiful girl, and telecast the interchange of ideas. It was imperative his wife be in the audience. Oh, yes! That was half the fun, watching her reaction to her husband's futile attempt to avoid what might be called a public mental infidelity. Well, the booming growth of the contest was past, but even now Cyl never knew what to expect during the first rounds of elimination. Three months before this final day, Cyl had been faced with hopeful after hopeful, never knowing what sort of attack was coming with the sound of the buzzer. A roller-skater had thrown a scare into him with that infernal organ giving off its regular, unconquerable squeals, plus the sound of all the skates the pudgy boy could muster into his mind, rolling and rolling! Every time Cyl began to get the upper hand by, say, increasing the speed until it was impossible to imagine that one was on skates and then switching to skis, or something like that, the boy would proCyl would be, back in the rink. However, by a stroke of luck Cyl had broken his leg once in his amateurish attempts to go backward, and he was able to bring back the terrible ring of hot, oversympathetic faces that immediately surrounded him. He just continued the idea of the injury, the ride in the copter-ambulance, the hospital, ether, blood. Rather a rude way to treat a child, but what was one to do? To Cyl this was a business. Children had to take their chances with the rest. Cyl remembered the semi-finals, and one of those people who continually turned up at the contest, experts in a certain field, like glassblowers, taxidermists, diamond cutters, even orchid fanciers. He almost paid dearly for his love of the strange, the beautiful. When the buzzer sounded he had found himself submerged in a light-green place, in a struggle with what seemed a tremendous piece of carved jade. It had four paddles sticking out which waved, pushed and scratched. In all his life his opponent had had but one job, that of removing tortoises from the canneries' holding-tanks by turning them on their backs. Cyl had diminished the size of the shell, transforming it laboriously into a girl's bathing suit. Then he had started at top and bottom developing her body, and had managed just in time to gain dominance. The judges' decision had been long in coming even though they were experts at perceiving the telltale "unexpected metamorphosis of a thought", as Jons called it. was only Cyl's brain against one more. He looked at their pictures on the program. It was funny, those two heads, awkward-looking things, being capable of waging a battle against each other. Cyl knew what was in the head on the right. That was his. The other one was his opponent. He would have to be powerful to have come so far. Cyl, for his part, had worried about every opponent. He must have the sure sweep of dreams to hurl at his last adversary. He had to win for his wife. He kept telling himself it wasn't prestige he was after. He had to do it for Lin, because he felt he must somehow pay for the gulf that had widened between them because of his preoccupation with the contest. He had practically stopped talking altogether! He loved her. He knew it as he watched her moving around the house. But he could not afford the distraction involved in giving her his love. There he was, night after night, his mind rising to a point of secure joy in having her and then receding into the problems of the contest. Cyl knew that everything had to be sacrificed. A few weeks before, in a state of exasperation at the thought of facing a chess champion, he had taken his chess pieces out to try to figure some way to foil his opponent. Chessplayers and scientists in specialized fields had a quality called conformance. It helped them, but it was also a weakness. Every time these people won by the use of the same image. From one round to the next, they projected the one idea that obsessed them. What they hoped for was that they would draw either a sequence of men who could comprehend their theories, or that those who didn't would be too stupid to distract them. Cyl had to break down the chessplayer's conformance, somehow, think of something that would wreck the precision of a chess game. The answer had come to him. He decided he would simply create a physical experience here and now which he could bring to mind during his mental struggle with the master. So he scooped up the chess pieces and walked to the kitchen, savoring the experience as much as possible. He dropped the little dolls into the disposal unit, one by one, as if he were supposed to be absolutely sure of their death. It was evident from the gritty, staccato whine that the appliance was not made for grinding plastatron. It soon stopped dead. That had been unfortunate, but to Cyl's joy, he found it enabled him to retrieve the chips and dust that used to be chessmen. This treasure he carried back to the board. He played a couple of mock-serious games with the rubble. He pushed a little bit of dust here, captured a chip there, and finally checkmated a beheaded King. The crazy thing about it was that when he had finished and jumbled the remains off onto the floor, he had felt sure his idea would be a success. It was understandable that Lin would take a dim view of the insane operation, but Gyl had really been surprised at her that time. She became very emotional, cried, said he didn't understand her. What a peculiar thing to say! Anyway, he couldn't worry about something like that now. If he won there would be lots of time to make up for the strain. C YL bent close to the picture on the program again. What he knew about his opponent wasn't going to be of much use because this man was one of those frightening dark horses. Hardly anyone went to see him. Why? Everybody liked Cyl's projections. They were varied, subtle. He liked them that way. Sometimes they were full of the conversation of things that had never talked before, almost going out of control as though he were just a loudspeaker, through which one could hear, at last, the sound of a clam working its way into the sand, or a goose's bill rattling at the corn in some far and frosty field. And the other man? His name was Grus. Those who had been curious enough to watch him at work had come back with an old story. Surely it could not be true that he had come so far on some sort of sexual pitch! But they all assured Cyl there was nothing out of the ordinary about the man. Each time he started the round with a very dull series of transmissions, identified by most people as being connected with the mechanics of common machines. That was plausible. The paper had said Grus was a home-appliance repairman. Anyway, they went on, Grus would continue these occupational ramblings until his opponent overpowered them. Then he would switch to the image of a woman, the switch being effected with apparent ease. From that moment on Grus' competitors had little power over the development of the thought. The most peculiar quality in the women Grus imagined was the plain, unexciting appearance -- no beautiful bodies or come-hither looks. These were just old or young, bored or sad, forgotten or unloved women. Many of his opponents had been questioned after the round. Who was the woman? What was the power of Grus' thought? Not one of the men had an answer. Naturally the beaten ones didn't feel much like talking to reporters and curious contestants, but from what they did say it was definite the woman on the screen was no acquaintance, living, dead, or dreamed. A voice from the instrument over  the door said, "Mr. Mar, you have five minutes." Then he heard his wife's steps click-clicking down the smooth, white hall. She came into the room and sat down, with her purse, as though the setting-down of the purse was just as important as the seating of the body. She knew she mustn't speak... Gyl would either have to invent TT machines that could be carried by husband and wife or quit the contest. He wasn't worried about himself. He could live among the suspended splinters of his mind. Reactions were conversation. But then there was love, which could never be kept within the safe confines of the mind. Love was too frantic. It broke through the skull and left its hard cloven hoofprints everywhere, never forgetting, though, to return to rest, to sleep, and to play its surprising part in the drama of dreams as a young African girl swimming, or a red-skirted maid who has lingered a moment too long in the garden, who stops just once on the walk under the ivory wall, to look into your eyes. Cyl walked past Lin. He almost said something to her as he paused before stepping out into the hall, but he knew she would have released a flood of words. He couldn't afford to think about what she said now. Her white-gloved hand was lightly closed on the orange frontrow ticket. There was no cheering when Cyl walked across the stage and sat down. The Contest Board had asked that noise be kept to a minimum. But there was always a heavy murmur, feet scuffling and coughing. It was soothing to Cyl. He had been a favorite in his long fight and he knew they wanted to see him crowned. Especially since most of them had seen Grus at the projection and had developed a firm dislike for him. Grus seemed to be calm, had his helmet adjusted, and was chatting with one of the technicians. audience quieted. Cyl thought of the hum of bees working in a group of white, weatherbeaten hives. He hoped this would emerge well on the screen after the buzzer and also attack at close quarters by the white enamel kitchen that he expected from Grus. There was the buzzer. It was chaotic, like the beginning of every round between strong imaginations. Cyl worked to establish two levels of thought. One dictated his course of action. The other was the actual, projected thought which would affect the screen picture. This was usual, because if one's strategy got mixed up with one's projection he would become easy prey to the simplest idea from his opponent. He had guessed almost right. Grus started with the inner parts of the hamper of a common laundry system. It was sorting the clothes into different groups, delicate rayons one way, denim workclothes another. Cyl's hives were petrifying the cloth and his bees were becoming more and more numerous, so that when he had thought them all out of the hives there was a cloud of humming. walking, flying, seething bees that was shutting out the whiteness of the laundry. Grus backed his clothes down through the machine until they reached the washing element and began turning CyPs bees into dirty suds, flowing and pushing. It was time for Cyl to make his play for dominance. The sea. He was looking back over the stern of a ship. The water was boiling away from him with the ferocity that only the sea has. The clothes became translucent eels, falling over each other in their effort to feed on the remaining bees. They leaped out and slimed against each other. They dove in the white froth. Grus was trying to bring back the precision of his machine. He tried to ram Cyl head-on with the image of black pistons and sharp cogs soaking and dripping in oil. The machine parts became obvious only at intervals, in the dark lines that surrounded the white foam, but the viscosity was ruining CyPs spray, and his eels were flowing together into a conveyor belt. So out of the sleek pistons Cyl made darting sharks with black, black fins that slashed among the eels, dividing them and throwing their mauled, bloody bodies aside into the greener brine. Cyl relaxed, but realized moments later that Grus was not the pushover he had seemed so far. For CyPs sharks, which had promised to be unapproachable in speed and ferocity, had, with perfect subtlety, been turned into a group of men in tails enjoying a Christmas party. The dazzling foam was a swirling snowfall, the blood a spray of holly berries here and there among green spears of pine and fir. Grus was doing his best work in black and white. His stiff, black men were like dolls, perambulating around a Christmas tree. Grus was not sympathetic with the green and red that had been left over from CyPs image, for those colors were suffering a snow change, becoming colder, whiter, crisper as the winter fell in upon them. The walls disappeared into the gloomy whiteness, the tree was heavier with snow, but the men who before seemed festive took on a funereal quality. The slow flakes passed them, for they were just visiting. The background remained a dark void. The tree never reached the formless stage, but shook itself and weaved from side to side. It was a huge white bear. The men stopped their slow traveling at this and as though at a signal filed into the dark cave. The animal turned, hunched and shook himself once more, and followed them. As a man wakes who has been forbidden to sleep, Cyl escaped the other man's mind with a feeling of total fear, mental and physical. He looked apprehensively at the clock. Grus had managed only to catch up what he had lost in the beginning of the round. But why did he stop? He must have tired his mind, until his thoughts just fell from the peak of imaginative power into that shaded opening, fatigue. Cyl was reassured of this as he let his mind slip back to the projection. Grus had returned to a sleek, silent home-freezer. Cyl threw himself into the effort to reach Grus with some thought that would be familiar to him. He had to do that before he could metamorphose the idea for his own purposes. By imagining the storage contents of the box, Cyl brought into the projection a lot of waxed cartons of ice cream. As he reveled in their cold, sweet smell he saw himself as the head on a coin, buried in a large, square, white birthday cake. He heard the muffled voices of the children singing "Happy Birthday to You," the girls fairly well oriented to the words and rhythm of the song, the boys lagging behind or forging ahead, as well as the voice of one misguided child who was familiar only with the words, "Home, Home on the Range," for he used these lyrics for each line. and he could hear the candles snapping and fluttering above him. Suddenly there was noise. The table shuddered, forks and knives clanged together, fists pounded on the crepe tablecloth and pieces of gum were pressed against the underside of the table with a faint squashing sound. The knife hissed through the airy cake, but contrary to tradition, it caught Cyl on his serrated edge and rolled him out on the plate, bared. All that remained was the knife which lay beside him and his wife's face. She looked down at him from above with gray indifference. Cast out of dominance by his wife's image? It was she! Yet it wasn't. She didn't look like that, walking down the street. That wasn't the way she looked when she sat and watched him perform. He glanced quickly at her seat. It was empty. The projection now showed her lying on their bed. For an instant Cyl felt embarrassed at the idea of her being held up in front of the public, but then he realized that to them it was just any old midmorning housewife. Cyl looked down again, searching the auditorium seats. Then he saw her. She wasn't out yet. But she was walking quickly away, a small back in the shadows of the great hall. All the faces were turned to him except one. She moved toward the little door so far up the aisle. There was a flash of white light. She was gone. Gone? The word echoed in his mind like the bell on the door of a grocery store. It rang. Someone had left, left him among the sweet smells of coffeecake and wheat crackers. So much alone, here. He wanted to run to the jingie door and yell, "Come back! What about all these wonderful things? These wonderful things we are going to have? Lin! These..." But the bell had tinkled. It had already said, "gone." Cyl's mind wandered, crazed, over the events of the last few moments. Grus. Grus. What had he done? Something like the chessmen. That's what Cyl and Lin were like now, wasn't it? Grus had picked them up before, sliced them up. Then he had strewn the pieces. Grus, come a-riding to Cyl's door on one of his cement mixers. See this! You have a silver candlestick, mister? He'll make dimes of it, and for half price! Grus dominating the screen, for Cyl could no longer focus on the contest of thoughts... his thoughts were now only of Lin. No reason to go on trying, nothing down here in the ashes, in the obsidian loneliness where the flowers, once so red and yellow, are black and painful -- for the lack of the lovely eyes to look upon them. Lin's eyes. And when he saw her eyes again for that fleeting moment, he saw a light. It was a light of memory only, now that everything was over, but he had to cling to it. Anything to save him from the utter darkness. He saw a plain with stars overhead, and down below the myriad lights of a festival. For Cyl, a beginning. A beautiful memory, Lin, the first time he had looked at her. She was a young girl standing near the crowd that had gathered to watch one of those rocket launchings. They were all jabbering. The danger. The chances one took! Oh, the bravery. Except for the children, of course, who were stealing things to take back to their bedrooms. The police were working their way around the circle trying to keep people from breaking into the flash zone. She was standing near the knot of pilots, who were attaching to their bodies the equipment they could put on outside of the rocket. It was obvious she wanted to go nearer but was too self-conscious to do so, or perhaps afraid she might touch one of them strangely, on the shoulder, and thus enchant him forever. Yes, she was afraid that some part of her might go with these heroes and yet she was loath to believe she could give them nothing. Then one of them said, "Take a good look, wonderboys. That may be the last chick you'll see, let alone get close to." At this she turned away with a look of infinite pity and resignation that left her eyes burning in the night, there on the plain, and walked back into the city. Once more. Cyl saw her eyes, luminous. Springtime. Springtime, and the contest had ended for the year. He was in one of his favorite haunts, the Museum of Natural History, in the room of the luminous minerals. It was wonderful to stand there, in the dark, with thousands of eternal eyes looking at you, all impassive. There was no accusation there; only a silent, heavenly atmosphere of immortality  Someone was standing on the other side of the room. Silhouetted against pale green stones etched with fantastic pink lines, was the girl he had seen the year before. He couldn't see her features, but he knew from the shock to his senses that it must be she. Soon Cyl stood very near her. He wanted to go on, really, go on around and out into the sunlight of the courtyard. It would be much simpler than marrying this woman, after all. But it was too late to go on. He looked past her hair, a last time, at the doorway. But his eyes returned to her face. Now he had to take her with him. He had to find out what she did all day. He was unaccountably afraid to look at her as he said this, so he squinted at his watch and said, "Why don't we have a drink somewhere? It's time." Lin had made flowery days of the summer. Intense, electric evenings sprang fiercely into the sheltered heart of the dense foliage outside Cyl's window. The nights slid away from the circle of the week as quickly as the delicate balance of midnight was disturbed. In the fall, when Cyl looked out and saw the ice-cream man and the children and the shoppers running before red leaves in the wind, he told Lin that he was determined to marry her immediately. Every day Cyl discovered that he was wrong when he decided that one or another part of her face or body was most beautiful. One morning he was convinced her lips were so cool and fragrant that the rest of the day must be evil to soften them. And that night as he watched sleep invade that same flesh he was sorry to see the effects of the day's experiences erased... noises in the great ThoughtTransfer machine were unwelcome in CyPs life now, because there was no life. None that he wanted. The loud speakers were blaring the name of Cyl Mar! The Board had written his name on the blank check and had cast a huge picture of it on the back wall of the auditorium, for the spectators to see on their way out. The contest was over. He had forgotten all about the contest. Grus? He had forgotten all about Grus. There was only memory and Lin. Stunned, Cyl heard himself being asked for a few words and he felt his lips say the same things he had always said. They let him go, he stumbled past Grus, who was collecting all his certificates, credit cards, and prizes for runner-up. The crowd was leaving in a vast, swelled murmur. He wanted to get away, lock himself in his cubicle and rave at himself as a fool screams at a fool, louder, louder! Make faces at himself, feel his face with his hands, as though the physical world which he had seemed to reject would believe this sort of proof that he recognized it. But all the indirect, mystic, or magical tricks would never bring her back. Exhausted, he stood on the edge of the stage, where the gray seats stretched away from him like waves in a sea. The crowd was gone, the auditorium empty. The technicians behind him were testing the equipment, before switching off. One of the mechanics wore the thought helmet, projecting plush leather, red wine, and ivory women on the screen, smiling. Cyl did not move. He looked up and yet further up through the empty auditorium. It was not quite empty. His breath tightened, and his heart moved in the hollowness. A single person sat alone in the very last row. The person did not move. The person looked back down over the emptiness, reaching as Cyl was reaching. She was very beautiful. Lin. She had decided to go, had walked out forever, because she had thought Grus was right, because she was ashamed. But once outside, she had paused, thought Cyl, and gone to the balcony to watch, to see all of it, to know the rest. Lin. Lin. She sat above, quiet. He did not trust himself to call out to her. He turned to the machine, the technicians, the helmet. Quietly, he took the helmet, placed it on his head. He closed his eyes. He knew what he could, what he must, paint there on the screen. And there it was for her. There it happened for her eyes. On the screen, a picture of himself walking off the stage and up the aisle. And a picture of her getting up from her place in the balcony and walking out through the door and down the quiet stairs. Himself coming out into the lobby, their meeting. And now they were taking each others' hands, warm and belonging, and now they were kissing, now moving silently past the cool fountains, out of the theatre. He opened his eyes and removed the helmet. A glance told him that, in the balcony, Lin was already suiting action to the image. She rose. She was smiling. She turned and walked. Cyl stepped down from the stage. He started up the aisle. Then, he was running. (Continued from page #) ly don't know." But the two spacemen, though they didn't refer to it -- were not concerned with the body so much as the aura of completeness, the radiation of contentment which came from somewhere within. And it was passing strange that nothing more was said about the Professor returning to Earth. No great revelation, suddenly arrived at, that he would not go. Rather, they discussed various things, that three gentlemen, meeting casually, would discuss. Then Professor Pettibone arose from his chair and said, "It was kind of you to drop off and see me. And one of the spacemen replied, "A pleasure, sir. A real pleasure indeed." Then the Professor left the ship and watched it lift up on a tail of red fire and go away. He raised an arm and waved. "Say hello for me," he called. Then he turned away and, from force of habit, he began again to polish the hull, knowing that he would keep it shining, and be proud of it, for many years to come. Almost beyond reach of the planet, one of the spacemen flipped a switch and put certain sensitive communication mechanisms to work. So sensitive, they could pick up etheric vibrations far away and make them audible. But only faintly, came the pleasant voice of a contented man : "Good morning bright sunshine, We're glad you are here. You make the world... Specific Gravity of Space # miliar concept of comparing the weight of a thing or substance with an equal volume of water, is widely used, but it isn't often that you find such a computation made in connection with all of space! Cosmologists, however, are interested in discovering the distribution of matter throughout the universe and it is a valuable piece of knowledge to have some idea of the "specific gravity", or density (to be correct), of matter in that vast volume of nothingness. Someone will immediately question the idea with "but you don't know how big Space is!" That's true; yet telescopes can probe hunof light-years into space and they can sample a big enough volume to make the concept "density of the universe" perfectly valid. Subsequent penetration of space -- if that's possible and the universe is not finite -- is not likely to change the figure by much. It turns out that the density is -- as you would suspect -- fantastically low. After all there is a lot of empty space to consider. In technical terms the density is about ten to the centimeter -- or, in familiar terms, about a pound of matter to the volume occupied by thirty thousand Earths! That is rareness and vacuity indeed! Nevertheless, when you consider the total volume of the known universe, that's a lot of stuff. Assuming that the light-years in diameter -- and it's certainly more than this -- all you need do is apply the formula for the volume of a sphere -- fourthirds pi times the radius cubed -- and you come up with an answer in cubic light-years which literally takes your breath away. The specific gravity of the universe is mighty, mighty low... Who Needs Gravity? Force recently revealed data and photographs showing that live animals -- mice and monkeys -- had been sent up in V-# and Aerobee rockets to altitudes of # miles, to test their reactions at zero gravity. Even though they were subjected to a brief, one-second acceleration of about # g and a force of # to # g, which lasted for # seconds, the animals showed absolutely no unusual aftereffects from the experimental flight. One of the photographs made available shows a mouse floating in a plastic drum. Since the walls of the drum were glassy smooth, the animal was unable to gain a foothold and was undoubtedly in a state of helpless panic. Another photograph shows a mouse in an adjoining section of the drum. This section had a shelf, and the second mouse was able to take firm hold, stay calm, and keep his equilibrium while the rocket shot through the weightless period. The results of these experiments, plus others in which several humans took part in jet fighter planes, lead to the conclusion that it is undoubtedly possible for man to be able to stand for brief periods the gravity-free state expected in rocket flight to the outer atmosphere. But he must have something to hang on to. Properly secured in the aircraft, he should be able to function normally during brief periods of zero gravity, and without difficulty should be able to perform any operations that would be necessary to pilot the craft. Why Rotation Varies tuation occurring periodically in the earth's rate of rotation has puzzled scientists. Recent studies of the optical properties of the mineral olivine under high pressures, however, give some idea of what the electrical conductivity at earth's center is like -- and there is now a possible explanation to the fluctuations : It may be due to the activity of an electromagnetic coupling which is located between the mantle of the earth and earth's liquid center. According to evidence which scientists have carefully gathered, it is probable that the earth's mantle consists in great part of the mineral olivine. Under normal conditions olivine acts as an insulator, but the high temperatures raging within the earth are strong enough to change its properties there so that it becomes a conductor. The electrical conductivity of the earth's mantle plays an important role in many geophysical phenomena, one of which of course is to provide the electromagnetic coupling between the mantle of the earth and the center of the earth, and the resulting activity of the coupling, which may possibly explain the variance in the earth's rate of rotation. Unknown Universe? astronomers have been working on for almost # years, there are stars in the sky that do not twinkle. This means there may be as many invisible as visible stars in the universe, thus indicating that it is entirely possible that there exists a duplicate universe, of which we have no knowledge. A British research foundation, in conjunction with the British government, has recently announced they are building a giant radio-telescope, at a cost of approximately #. With this huge instrument, scientists will try to locate the invisible stars. These may be radio stars, or dark stars. They may be stars in the process of being born or of dying. They may even be some completely new type of object of which our astronomers have no previous knowledge. Birth of a Star Nature's offspring, a star is formed almost purely by accident. It begins to be created when interstellar gases in a cloud are brought together unevenly. The embryo star adds to its mass by picking up other gases as it makes its way through the cloud. It grows fast, and eventually moves out of its parent cloud and into a free space which has only irregular dottings of gas clouds. According to a recent lecture by Professor Fred Hoyle of St. John's College in Cambridge, England, further growth of the star by the addition of external material, once it has left its parent cloud, is fairly rare. Perhaps one star in a hundred will experience a second period of growth, while only one in a ond and a third growth. The second period stars become moderately large. The stars that get to an exceptionally high mass, however, are the three-period stars. That Old Bloodthirsty Mother Goose ture's benign old lady of letters -- is actually a bloodthirsty vampire. Very few persons realize that the traditional nursery rhymes, which have been used for generations to amuse and entertain innocent childhood, are filled with an overwhelming amount of villainous references, of death and violence and shocking horrors, masquerading under a mask of innocence. Geoffrey Handley-Taylor, founder of the British Poetry-Drama Guild, is an active crusader for the reform of the old-fashioned nursery rhymes. Out of # famous traditional nursery rhymes which he recently studied in detail, he says at least # of them contain "unsavory elements". A detailed listing of their contents include : # allusions to death, violence and depravity, including eight cases of murder, two cases of choking to death, three of death by drowning, one each of death by devouring, decapitation, squeezing, cutting a human being in half, starvation, shrivelling, boiling, and hanging. There's even a blow for starryeyed newlyweds, in one rhyme, which contains an allusion to marriage being another form of death. Today's radio and television programs of horror and suspense -- which are bringing such loud protests of disapproval from parents -- can well take a back seat to the old classics for children. -- Peter Dakin I #t#KCl#l  Dear Sirs: An item in IF, September # issue (Science Briefs) on the subject of optical sandblasting proved to be of considerable interest to me. Mr. Recour refers to the technique devised by Dr. Wm. A. Rhodes. I have made many telescope mirrors (all by the "old hat" method) and quite naturally the Doctor's technique (and its apparent time-saving) opens up new possibilities for amateur telescope makers, including myself. As Director of the Amateur Telescope Makers' Group in Toronto, Ontario, I have watched the rapid growth of public interest in the hobby, hand in hand with the also rapid development of time-and-effort-saving apparatus for making the mirror. The process of grinding has by no means been the least of the deterrents to amateurs, because of the relatively long period of work required without any apparent approach to the finished product. Consequently, I feel sure that my fellow amateurs will consider Dr. Rhodes' method of sandblasting the base curve a useful advance in the mirror technique, especially in the larger sizes. While the possibility of sandblasting is not entirely new to us, no actual experimentation (that I know of) has ever proved successful in Canada. Hence, we would appreciate any information you can give us on the Doctor's method. -- L. H. Clarke # Hillsdale Ave. Toronto, Canada No doubt Dr. Rhodes and other interested readers would like to exchange notes with Mr. Clarke. Dear Sir: Enclosed you will find one slightly battered and beat-up money order. It was originally bought in Korea # # months ago but, just as it was about to be put into an envelope, several incoming rounds of enemy artillery followed by a call for a rather actively interesting combat patrol caused it to be misplaced. It finally turned up when I was looking through some old letters a few days ago. It is made out for #, enough for a subscription for # issues. I have just finished the November issue of IF. Very good; I liked especially the makeup and clear type which made the issue very easy to read. I won't list the stories in order of preference except to say that "The Image and the Likeness" was definitely the best and the feature on Leonardo da Vinci was very interesting. A full length article with a few diagrams of some of his inventions would be good for a later issue. Or how about Nostradamus and his predictions? You have an attractive, flexible magazine. Keep up the good work. #, Jacksonville, Florida That poor little old money order was good as gold. We hope you # ll find IF comparably good. Sirs: Inclosed find my check for #, for which please send me # issues of IF, beginning with the January number. The November number is the only copy of any science fiction magazine which does not use the word "extrapolate" even once -- for which receive my congratulations. What is it about that word that bewitches science fiction writers? One doesn't encounter it often in other fiction. Is it a sort of code in sf? Even writers whose knowledge of English grammar is a bit shaky manage to use it; in fact, especially writers in that category. The Image and the Likeness is a beautiful bit of allegory as well as a touching story. Such flights of fancy justify science fiction as literature. With good wishes to your magazine (but I do hate the sexy covers). -- Phoebe H. Gilkyson Mont Clare, Penn. Dear Mr. Quinn: The modem Gulliver story titled The Image and the Likeness is quite well written. My congratulations to Campbell for achieving verisimilitude in the character Kazu. Most characters in stf make me think of the joke (?) concerning the comment of an editor on a manuscript. Remember it? The Writer had inserted the law-suit preventative "All characters appearing in this story are fictional. Any similarity to actual persons is cofticidental." The plagued editor penciled a note, "That's the trouble," and tearfully inserted said script in the outgoing mail basket. The sketch on da Vinci is excellent. The cover is poor in all over effect for me, although the balance of color is excellent. The staring eyes convey neither attraction nor horror and the foreshortened arms look like flippers. The bodies are neither opaque (witness planet line on legs) nor transparent, since solid continents in background are obliterated by trunks and Bell-jarred headdress. -- Alice Bullock # Gildersleeve Santa Fe, New Mexico To the Editor: I was very impressed with your leading novel in the November issue. It was easily the most absorbing story I have yet read on the theme of Atomic mutation. The best story in the issue, though, was The Running Hounds . Indeed a vivid portrayal of the changes which could take place in a culture as the result of highly technological warfare. I'd like to commend IF on its good discretion in stories. It's good to see that, as is true in some magazines, the so-called gimmick is not allowed to overshadow the characterization and the interplay of people. For my money, although I know you can't please everybody, you can dispense with the humorous stories. I've read very few in my time which I believe were very successful. Your covers are improving with each issue, the November one being the best so far. I think, and again I realize that you can't please everyone, that the cover should illustrate one of the stories, not necessarily the leading novel. You'll be receiving my subscription. -- Robert Maider Hamilton College Clinton, New York Our cover policy was explained in the March issue. Regarding humor  we need it sometimes , hut agree that it has to he well handled. Dear Sir: Your November issue of IF was tops in my opinion. I've read the mag ever since its inception and have followed its progress with interest. The cover... is absolutely the best yet. It attracted me with such intensity at the newsstands that I frankly felt the interior could not live up to such a dazzling cover-picture. Happy to say, the stories were of equal calibre. The Image and the Likeness was the best of the issue by a good # feet. Seldom have I read a story as realistic and enthralling as this one during my ten years of avid stf reading. This one was so good that even raving about it would be an understatement... The Running Hounds was next on my list. A well turned tale, one that stays in my mind and suggests the possibility of a sequel... Brother to the Machine was next in preference; a hauntingly written story. If this issue of IF is any yardstick I would say you have achieved what some of the other mags in the field are clamoring (falsely) that they have... quality in material. Your inside covers are very welcome. I hope they continue. Your Personalities in Science feature is excellent. This is quite a statement coming from someone who avoids features like the plague. This one is being handled very nicely. The Postman Cometh is just right in length. I find when a mag starts printing poor quality stories they enlarge their readers' column, probably so the readers will have some reason to buy the mag. Keep yours short and your stories good and you'll have few complaints from this comer. Definitely compliments on the November IF. -- Jan Gardner Apredelon Canterbury, N. H. explorer. Its hostile atmosphere of ammonia and methane, coupled with a seething volcanic surface, promises to make any attempt at landing highly improbable. In this space scene, an exploration rocket streaks over Jupiter's bulk, approximately # miles above its equator. In the background above the rocket are three of Jupiter's eleven moons, all of which seem to invite comparatively safe exploration. (Drawings by Ed Valigursky) Why puzzle lovers are having more fun than ever before are these two unusual puzzle publication One of America's greatest values! Chock full of fun -- # pages with over # puzzles of every variety in every issue. Also articles and special features of fascinating interest to every puzzle lover. Another wonderful puzzle magazine with a new and exciting selection of puzzles, quizzes, brain teasers, articles and features! # pages of delightful excursion into puzzle pleasure. Try it and see for yourself. # mm newt eUafotf only #c everywhere  probable completely airless. Jagged cliffs rise thousands of feet above a surface pockmarked with volcanic craters. The men pictured are scaling one of the less formidable peaks, while their ship lies in the valley far below, A Mercurian day is of the same duration as its year -- # Earth days. Ail Stories New and Complete Cover by Ken Fagg: A Volcanic Eruption on Titan, Sixth Moon of Saturn I Apostolides s IF is published bi-monthly by Quinn Publishing Company, Inc. Volume #, No. #. Copyright # by Quinn Publishing Co., Inc. Office of publication, # Lord Street, Buffalo, New York. Entered as Second Class Matter at Post Office, Buffalo, New York. Subscription # for # issues in U.S. and Possessions; Canada # for # issues; elsewhere #. Allow four weeks for change of address. All stories appearing in this magazine are fiction; any similarity to actual persons is coincidental. Not responsible for unsolicited artwork or manuscripts. #c a copy. Printed in U.S. A. Next issue on sale July #th # I # I # I # I #I I # I # I #I I # I # I # I # I # I # I S ometimes a body gets to wondering just what progress really is. In this case, my confusion is about one of those new, super-duper fountain pens, made by one of America's oldest pen and pencil makers. The one I have in mind is right on the desk before me. It's a desk pen -- a pretty thing, black, onyx-like base, magnetic marble, which holds the penholder in any position, and a slim, sleek, black pen with a chrome band around the middle. It has a truly graceful, futuristic, pace-setting feel and appearance. But, boy-oh-boy-oh-boy! That pretty thing is more trouble to fill than an old-fashioned Saturdaynight-bath tub with an old oaken bucket from an old time, pulleyworking dug-well. You've no doubt had experiences with one like it. If you haven't, here's how it works: First, you gotta have special ink for it -- made by the maker of the pen. Then, you unscrew the top of the pen and find a plunger. This plunger is special. No once-down-and-release like the good old-time pens of fifteen, twenty or twenty-five years ago. This special, super plunger requires nine plunges, holding the point submerged all the while. And each time you "plunge", you gotta allow a couple seconds on the release for it to suck in ink. The ninth time, you remove it from the ink and then release the plunger. No variations, now, and no short cuts ! Should you lose count because your phone rings or something, you have to start all over from scratch. You can't fool that pen! Oh, you get used to it after a while. All you gotta do is practice. Like on Saturdays and Sundays and during your lunch hour. You gradually become quite proficient. I've had mine for two years and I'm pretty good. I average a penful of ink three out of every five times I perform the operation. And yet, no matter how assinine I think it is, I reckon it is probably better than the old fashioned type that had a little lever or plunger, which you worked once -- with your eyes shut and without mumbling a count and using anybody's ink -- and you had a penful that would write a long time. After all, that was much too simple. Oh, yes, I've also got a pocket job, with a super, trick-redoesn't take in as much ink as any self-respecting wreck you use to fill out money order forms in post offices around the country. But it looks nice when I take it out of my pocket and let it rest on the table while I borrow somebody else's equipment to write with. said, "Everybody complains about the weather, but nobody does anything about it". That pretty much applies to this thing we call "time". You've heard that familiar gripe: "Where the heck does the time go?" Or, "How time flies!" Or, "There ought to be more than # hours in a day!" Anyhow, you get the idea. But did you ever stop to think that we're putting the cart before the horse. Time ain't flying at all. We're flying. "Time" is an invention of our civilization. It is relative to action, movement, music, geology, mathematics, life, etc., etc. Out in space, out in the infinite, there is no time -- as we know it. Let the earth change its rotation and we'd have a heck of a "time" with our clocks, calendars, sundials, egg cookers, etc. Anyhow, I suppose this thought was suggested by a line I remembered from a swell movie I saw recently. The movie was Breaking Through the Sound Barrier, and the scene is that of the test pilot looking through a telescope, stationed in the private observatory of a manufacturer of jet planes. After a while of intense watching, he says something to the years out there, they are living in the past. The manufacturer, sitting nearby, hears him and looks up. There is a dreamy expression on his face. "My boy," he said, "out there is the past, the present, and the future." We make our own time. So It is we who fly. Breaking Through the Sound Barrier, incidentally, is a picture anyone interested in science, factual or fictional, will enjoy seeing. It has all the basic emotions, plus some new ones. I've been up in planes doing over # miles per hour, at over # feet, but that was nowhere near the thrill of watching this movie. The camera takes you through phases of man's breathless quest for speed, it gives you a lookin on the development of mighty engines, and it introduces you to a philosophical equation of man, nature and machinery. And when the camera takes you inside a plane screaming through space # feet up, hurtling life and machine against the sound barrier -- well it's the next best thing to actually being up there. In fact, it's better. Personally, you couldn't get me up surance policy. Watching it from a safe, comfortable seat in a movie house was enough for me. flying seems to me to be in these small personal jobs. A friend of mine has a small four-seater Stinson and the time he took me up I behaved like a three-year old on his first ride on a merry-go-round. Flying at # to # miles per hour at # to # feet gives you the excitement of contrast. You follow roads, rivers, railroad tracks, pick out familiar landmarks; you see life below with a fascinating perspective which is never possible in the big, fast planes. Besides, to reiterate, I never am in #-miles-per-hour worth of hurry. -- jlq Wilbur Murphy sought romance, excitement, and an impossible Horseman of Space. With polite smiles, the planet frustrated him at every turn -- until he found them all the hard way! By Jack Vance duction Director of Know Your Universe!, was a man of sudden unpredictable moods; and Sam Gatlin, the show's Continuity Editor, had learned to expect the worst. "Sam," said Frayberg, "regarding the show last night..." He paused to seek the proper words, and Gatlin relaxed. Frayberg's frame of mind was merely critical. "Sam, we're in a rut. What's worse, the show's dull!" Sam Gatlin shrugged, not committing himself. "Seaweed Processors of Alphard IX -- who cares about seaweed?" "It's factual stuff," said Sam, defensive but not wanting to go too far out on a limb. "We bring 'em everything -- color, fact, romance, sight, sound, smell... Next week, it's the Ball Expedition to the Mixtup Mountains on Gropus." Frayberg leaned forward. "Sam, we're working the wrong slant on this stuff... , . We've got to loosen up, sock 'em! Shift our ground! Give 'em the old human angle -- glamor, mystery, thrills!" Sam Gatlin curled his lips. "I got just what you want." "Yeah? Show me." Gatlin reached into his waste basket. "I filed this just ten minutes ago..." He smoothed out the pages. " 'Sequence idea, by Wilbur Murphy. Investigate "Horseman of Space," the man who rides up to meet incoming spaceships'." Frayberg tilted his head to the side. "Rides up on a horse?" "That's what Wilbur Murphy says." "How far up?" "Does it make any difference?" "Nev -- I guess not." "Well, for your information, it's up ten thousand, twenty thousand miles. He waves to the pilot, takes off his hat to the passengers, then rides back down." "And where does all this take place?" "On -- on -- " Gatlin frowned. "I can write it, but I can't pronounce it." He printed on his scratch"Sirgamesk," read Frayberg. Gatlin shook his head. "That's what it looks like -- but those consonants are all aspirated gutturals. It's more like 'Hrrghameshgrrh'." "Where did Murphy get this tip?" "I didn't bother to ask." "Well," mused Frayberg, "we could always do a show on strange superstitions. Is Murphy around?" "He's explaining his expense account to Shifkin." "Get him in here; let's talk to him." blond crew-cut, a broad freckled nose, and a serious sidelong squint. He looked from his crumpled sequence idea to Gatlin and Frayberg. "Didn't like it, eh?" "We thought the emphasis should be a little different," explained Gatlin. "Instead of 'The Space Horseman,' we'd give it the working title, 'Odd Superstitions of Hrrghameshgrrh'." "Oh, hell!" said Frayberg. "Gall it Sirgamesk." "Anyway," said Gatlin, "that's the angle." "But it's not superstition," said Murphy. "Oh, come, Wilbur..." "I got this for sheer sober-sided fact. A man rides a horse up to meet the incoming ships!" "Where did you get this wild fable?" "My brother-in-law is purser on the Celestial Traveller. At Riker's Planet they make connection with the feeder line out of Girgamesg." "Wait a minute," said Gatlin. "How did you pronounce that?" "Girgamesg. The steward on the shuttle-ship gave out this story, and my brother-in-law passed it along to me." "Somebody's pulling somebody's leg." "My brother-in-law wasn't, and the steward was cold sober." "They've been eating bhang. Sirgamesk is a Javanese planet, isn't it?" "Javanese, Arab, Malay." "Then they took a bhang supply with them, and hashish, chat, and a few other sociable herbs." "Well, this horseman isn't any drug-dream." "No? What is it?" "So far as I know it's a man on a horse." "Ten thousand miles up? In a vacuum?" "Exactly." "No space-suit?" "That's the story." Gatlin and Frayberg looked at each other. "Well, Wilbur," Gatlin began. Frayberg interrupted. "What we can use, Wilbur, is a sequence on Sirgamesk superstition. Emphasis on voodoo or witchcraft -- naked girls dancing -- stuff with roots in Earth, but now typically Sirgamesk. Lots of color. Secret rite stuff..." "Not much room on Girgamesc for secret rites." "It's a big planet, isn't it?" "Not quite as big as Mars. There's no atmosphere. The settlers live in mountain valleys, with airtight lids over 'em." Gatlin flipped the pages of Thumbnail Sketches of the Inhabited Worlds. "Says here there's When the atmosphere went, the population went with it." Frayberg became animated. "There's lots of material out there! Go get it, Wilbur! Life! Sex! Excitement! Mystery!" "Okay," said Wilbur Murphy. "But lay off this horseman-inspace. There b a limit to public credulity, and don't you let anyone tell you different." port, twenty thousand miles ahead. The steward leaned over Wilbur Murphy's shoulder and pointed a long brown finger. "It was right out there, sir. He came riding up -- " "What kind of a man was it? Strange looking?" "No. He was Cirgameski." "Oh. You saw him with your own eyes, eh?" The steward bowed, and his loose white mantle fell forward. "Exactly, sir." "No helmet, no space-suit?" "He wore a short Singhalut vest and pantaloons and a yellow Hadrasi hat. No more." "And the horse?" "Ah, the horse! There's a different matter." "Different how?" "I can't describe the horse. I was intent on the man." "Did you recognize him?" "By the brow of Lord Allah, it's well not to look too closely when such matters occur." "Then -- you did recognize him!" "I must .be at my task, sir." Murphy frowned in vexation at the steward's retreating back, then bent over his camera to check the tape-feed. If anything appeared now, and his eyes could see it, the Know Your Universe! could see it with him. When he looked up, Murphy made a frantic grab for the stanchion, then relaxed. Cirgamesg had taken the Great Twitch. It was an illusion, a psychological quirk. One instant the planet lay ahead; then a man winked or turned away, and when he looked back, "ahead" had become "below"; the planet had swung an astonishing ninety degrees across the sky, and they were falling! Murphy leaned against the stanchion. " 'The Great Twitch' ," he muttered to himself, "I'd like to screens!" Several hours passed. CirgamesQ grew. The Sampan Range rose up like a dark scab; the valley sultanates of Singhalut, Hadra, New Batavia, and Boeng-Bohot showed like glistening chickentracks ; the Great Rift Colony of Sundeman stretched down through the foothills like the trail of a slug. A loudspeaker voice rattled the ship. "Attention passengers for Singhalut and other points on Cirgamesg! Kindly prepare your luggage for disembarkation. Customs at Singhalut are extremely thorough. Passengers are warned to take no weapons, drugs or explosives ashore. This is important!" T he warning turned out to be an understatement. Murphy was plied with questions. He suffered search of an intimate nature. He was three-dimensionally Xrayed with a range of frequencies calculated to excite fluorescence in whatever object he might have secreted in his stomach, in a hollow bone, or under a layer of flesh. His luggage was explored with similar minute attention, and Murphy rescued his cameras with difficulty. "What're you so damn anxious about? I don't have drugs; I don't have contraband..." "It's guns, your excellency. Guns, weapons, explosives..." "I don't have any guns." "But these objects here?" "They're cameras. They record pictures and sounds and smells." The inspector seized the cases with a glittering smile of triumph. "They resemble no cameras of my experience; I fear I shall have to impound..." A young man in loose white pantaloons, a pink vest, pale green cravat and a complex black turban strolled up. The inspector made a swift obeisance, with arms spread wide. "Excellency," The young man raised two fingers. "You may find it possible to spare Mr. Murphy any unnecessary formality." "As your Excellency recommends..." The inspector nimbly repacked Murphy's belongings, while the young man looked on benignly. Murphy covertly inspected his face. The skin was smooth, the color of the rising moon; the eyes were narrow, dark, superficially placid. The effect was of silken punctilio with hot ruby blood close beneath. Satisfied with the inspector's zeal, he turned to Murphy. "Allow me to introduce myself, Tuan Murphy. I am Ali-Tomas, of the House of Singhalut, and my father the Sultan begs you to accept our poor hospitality." "Why, thank you," said Murphy. "This is a very pleasant surprise." "If you will allow me to conduct you..." He turned to the inspector. "Mr. Murphy's luggage to the palace." M urphy accompanied AliTomas into the outside light, fitting his own quick step to the prince's feline saunter. This is coming it pretty soft, he said to himself. I'll have a magnificent suite, with bowls of fruit and gin pahits, not to mention two or three silken girls with skin like rich cream bringing me towels in the shower... Well, well, well, it's not so bad working for Know Your Universe! aiter all! I suppose I ought to unlimber my camera... Prince Ali-Tomas watched him with interest. "And what is the audience of Know Your Universe IT' "We call 'em 'participants'." "Expressive. And how many participants do you serve?" "Oh, the Bowdler Index rises and falls. We've got about two hundred "Fascinating! And tell me -- how do you record smells?" Murphy displayed the odor recorder on the side of the camera, with its gelatinous track which fixed the molecular design. "And the odors recreated -- they are like the originals?" "Pretty close. Never exact, but none of the participants knows the difference. Sometimes the synthetic odor is an improvement." "Astounding!" murmured the prince. "And sometimes... Well, Carson Tenlake went out to get the myrrhblossoms on Venus. It was a hot day -- as days usually are on Venus -- and a long climb. When the show was run off, there was more smell of Carson than of flowers." Prince Ali-Tomas laughed politely. "We turn through here." They came out into a compound paved with red, green and white tiles. Beneath the valley roof was a sinuous trough, full of haze and warmth and golden light. As far in either direction as the eye could reach, the hillsides were terraced, barred in various shades of green. Spattering the valley floor were tall canvas pavilions, tents, booths, shelters. "Naturally," said Prince AliTomas, "we hope that you and your participants will enjoy Singhalut. It is a truism that, in order to import, we must export; we wish to encourage a pleasurable response to the 'Made in Singhalut' tag on our batiks, carvings, lacquers." They rolled quietly across the square in a surface-car displaying the House emblem. Murphy rested against deep, cool cushions. "Your inspectors are pretty careful about weapons." Ali-Tomas smiled complacently. "Our existence is ordered and peaceful. You may be familiar with the concept of adak?" "I don't think so." "A word, an idea from old Earth. Every living act is ordered by ritual. But our heritage is passionate -- and when unyielding adak stands in the way of an irresistible emotion, there is turbulence, sometimes "An amok." "Exactly. It is as well that the amok has no weapons other than his knife. Otherwise he would kill twenty where now he kills one." The car rolled along a narrow avenue, scattering pedestrians to either side like the bow of a boat spreading foam. The men wore loose white pantaloons and a short open vest; the women wore only the pantaloons. "Handsome set of people," remarked Murphy. Ali-Tomas again smiled complacently. "I'm sure Singhalut will present an inspiring and beautiful spectacle for your program." Murphy remembered the keynote to Howard Frayberg's instructions: "Excitement! Sex! Mystery!" Frayberg cared little for inspiration or beauty. "I imagine," he said casually, "that you celebrate a number of interesting festivals? Colorful dancing? Unique customs?" Ali-Tomas shook his head. "To the contrary. We left our superstitions and ancestor-worship back on Earth. We are quiet Mohammedans and indulge in very little festivity. Perhaps here is the reason for amoks and sjambaks.' "Sjambaks?" "We are not proud of them. You will hear sly rumor, and it is better that I arm you beforehand with truth." "What is a sjambak?" "They are bandits, flouters of authority. I will show you one prescntly." "I heard," said Murphy, "of a man riding a horse up to meet the spaceships. What would account for a story like that?" "It can have no possible basis," said Prince Ali-Tomas. "We have no horses on Cirgames. None whatever." "But..." "The veriest idle talk. Such nonsense will have no interest for your intelligent participants." The car rolled into a square a hundreds yards on a side, lined with luxuriant banana palms. Opposite was an enormous pavilion of gold and violet silk, with a dozen peaked gables casting various changing sheens. In the center of the square a twenty-foot pole supported a cage about two feet wide, three feet long, and four feet high. Inside this cage crouched a naked man. The car rolled past. Prince AliTomas waved an idle hand. The caged man glared down from bloodshot eyes. "That," said AliTomas, "is a sjambak. As you see," a faint note of apology entered his voice, "we attempt to discourage them." "What's that metal object on his chest?" "The mark of his trade. By that you may know all sjambak. In these unsettled times only we of the House may cover our chests -- all others must show themselves and declare themselves true Singhalusi." Murphy said tentatively, "I must come back here and photograph that cage." Ali-Tomas smilingly shook his head. "I will show you our farms, our vines and orchards. Your participants will enjoy these; they have no interest in the dolor of an ignoble sjambak." "Well," said Murphy, "our aim is a well-rounded production. We want to show the farmers at work, the members of the great House at their responsibilities, as well as the deserved fate of wrongdoers." "Exactly. For every sjambak there are ten thousand industrious Singhalusi. It follows then that only one ten-thousandth part of your film should be devoted to this infamous minority." "About three-tenths of a second, eh?" "No more than they deserve." "You don't know my Production Director. His name is Howard Frayberg, and... H oward frayberg was deep in conference with Sam Gatlin, under the influence of what Gatlin called his philosophic kick. It was the phase which Gatlin feared most. "Sam," said Frayberg, "do you know the danger of this business?" "Ulcers," Gatlin replied promptJyFrayberg shook his head. "We've got an occupational disease to fight -- progressive mental myopia." "Speak for yourself," said Gatlin. "Consider. We sit in this office. We think we know what kind of show we want. We send out our staff to get it. We're signing the checks, so back it comes the way we asked for it. We look at it, hear it, smell it -- and pretty soon we believe it ; our version of the universe, full-blown from our brains like Minerva stepping out of Zeus. You see what I mean?" "I understand the words." "We've got our own picture of what's going on. We ask for it, we get it. It builds up and up -- and finally we're like mice in a trap built of our own ideas. We cannibalize our own brains." "Nobody'll ever accuse you of being stingy with a metaphor." "Sam, let's have the truth. How many times have you been off Earth?" "I went to Mars once. And I spent a couple of weeks at Aristillus Resort on the Moon." Frayberg leaned back in his chair as if shocked. "And we're supposed to be a couple of learned planetologists !" Gatlin made grumbling noise in his throat. "I haven't been around the zodiac, so what? You sneezed a few minutes ago and I said gesundheit, but I don't have any doctor's degree." "There comes a time in a man's life," said Frayberg, "when he wants to take stock, get a new perspective." "Relax, Howard, relax." "In our case it means taking out our preconceived ideas, looking at them, checking our illusions against reality." "Are you serious about this?" "Another thing," said Frayberg, "I want to check up a little, ffiaifkin says the expense accounts are frightful. But he can't fight it. When Keeler says he paid ten munits for a loaf of bread on Nekkar IV, who's gonna call him on it?" "Hell, let him eat bread! That's cheaper than making a safari around the cluster, spot-checking the super-markets." Frayberg paid no heed. He touched a button; a three foot .sphere full of glistening motes appeared. Earth was at the center, with thin red lines, the scheduled space-ship routes, radiating out in all directions. "Let's see what kind of circle we can make," said Frayberg. "Gower's here at Canopus, Keeler's over here at Blue Moon, Wilbur Murphy's at Sirgamesk..." "Don't forget," muttered Gatlin, "we got a show to put on." "We've got material for a year," scoffed Frayberg. "Get hold of Space-Lines. We'll start with Sirgamesk, and see what Wilbur Murphy's up to." ing presented to the Sultan of Singhalut by the Prince Ali-Tomas. The Sultan, a small mild man of seventy, sat crosslegged on an enormous pink and green air-cushion. "Be at your ease, Mr. Murphy. We dispense with as much protocol here as practicable." The Sultan had a dry clipped voice and the air of a rather harassed corporation executive. "I understand you represent Earth-Central Home Screen Network?" "I'm a staff photographer for the Know Your Universe! show." "We export a great deal to Earth," mused the Sultan, "but not as much as we'd like. We're very pleased with your interest in us, and naturally we want to help you in every way possible. Tomorrow the Keeper of the Archives will present a series of charts analyzing our economy. Ali-Toms shall personally conduct you through the fish-hatcheries. We want you to know we're doing a great job out here on Singhalut." "I'm sure you are," said Murphy uncomfortably. "However, that isn't quite the stuff I want." "No? Just where do your desires lie?" Ali-Tomas said delicately. "Mr. Murphy took a rather profound interest in the sjambak displayed in the square." "Oh. And you explained that these renegades could hold no interest for serious students of our planet?" Murphy started to explain that clustered around two hundred million screens tuned to Know Your Universe! were four or five hungreater part of them neither serious nor students. The Sultan cut in decisively. "I will now impart something truly interesting. We Singhalusi are making preparations to reclaim four more valleys, with an added area of six hundred thousand acres! I shall put my physiographic models at your disposal; you may use them to the fullest extent!" "I'll be pleased for the opportunity," declared Murphy. "But tomorrow I'd like to prowl around the valley, meet your people, observe their customs, religious rites, courtships, funerals..." The Sultan pulled a sour face. "We are ditch-water dull. Festivals are celebrated quietly in the home; there is small religious fervor; courtships are consummated by family contract. I fear you will find little sensational material here in Singhalut." "You have no temple dances?" asked Murphy. "No fire-walkers, snake-charmers -- voodoo?" The Sultan smiled patronizingly. "We came out here to Cirgamesg to escape the ancient superstitions. Our lives are calm, orderly. Even the amoks have practically disappeared. "But the sjambaks -- " "Negligible." "Well," said Murphy, "I'd like to visit some of these ancient cities." "I advise against it," declared the Sultan. "They are shards, weathered stone. There are no inscriptions, no art. There is no stimulation in dead stone. Now. Tomorrow I will hear a report on hybrid soybean plantings in the Upper Kam District. You will want to be present." or even excelled his expectation. He had four rooms and a private garden enclosed by a thicket of bamboo. His bathroom walls were slabs of glossy actinolite, inlaid with cinnabar, jade, galena. pyrite and blue malachite, in representations of fantastic birds. His bedroom was a tent thirty feet high. Two walls were dark green fabric; a third was golden rust; the fourth opened upon the private garden. Murphy's bed was a pink and yellow creation ten feet square, soft as cobweb, smelling of rose sandalwood. Carved black lacquer tubs held fruit; two dozen wines, liquors, syrups, essences flowed at a touch from as many ebony spigots. The garden centered on a pool of cool water, very pleasant in the hothouse climate of Singhalut. The only shortcoming was the lack of the lovely young servitors Murphy had envisioned. He took it upon himself to repair this lack, and in a shady wine-house behind the palace, called the Barangipan, he made the acquaintance of a girlmusician named Soek Panjoebang. He found her enticing tones of quavering sweetness from the gamelan, an instrument well-loved in Old Bali. Soek Panjoebang had the delicate features and transparent skin of Sumatra, the supple long limbs of Arabia and in a pair of wide and golden eyes a heritage from somewhere in Celtic Europe. Murphy bought her a goblet of frozen shavings, each a different perfume, while he himself drank white rice-beer. Soek Panjoebang displayed an intense interest in the ways of Earth, and Murphy found it hard to guide the conversation. "Weelbrrr," she said. "Such a funny name, Weelbrrr. Do you think I could play the gamelan in the great cities, the great palaces of Earth?" "Sure. There's no law against gamelans." "You talk so funny, Weelbrrr. I like to hear you talk." "I suppose you get kinda bored here in Singhalut?" She shrugged. "Life is plea.sant, but it concerns with little things. We have no great adventures. We grow flowers, we play the gamelan." She eyed him archly sidelong. "We love... We sleep..." Murphy grinned. "You run amok." "No, no, no. That is no more." "Not since the sjambaks, eh?" "The sjambaks are bad. But better than amok. When a man feels the knot forming around his chest, he no longer takes his kris and runs down the street -- he becomes sjambak." This was getting interesting. "Where does he go? What does he do?" "He robs." "Who does he rob? What does he do with his loot?" She leaned toward him. "It is not well to talk of them." "Why not?" "The Sultan does not wish it... Everywhere are listeners. When one talks sjambak, the Sultan's ears rise, like the points on a cat." "Suppose they do -- what's the difference? I've got a legitimate interest. I saw one of them in that cage out there. That's torture. I want to know about it." "He is very bad. He opened the monorail car and the air rushed out. Forty-two Singhalusi and Hadrasi bloated and blew up." "And what happened to the sjambak?" "He took all the gold and money and jewels and ran away." "Ran where?" "Out across Great Pharasang Plain. But he was a fool. He came back to Singhalut for his wife; he was caught and set up for all people to look at, so they might tell each other, 'thus it is for sjambaks.' " "Where do the sjambaks hide out?" "Oh," she looked vaguely around the room, "out on the plains. In the mountains." "They must have some shelter -- an air-dome." "No. The Sultan would send out his patrol-boat and destroy them. They roam quietly. They hide among the rocks and tend their oxygen stills. Sometimes they visit the old cities." "I wonder," said Murphy, staring into his beer, "could it be sjambaks who ride horses up to meet the spaceship?" Soek Panjoebang knit her black eyebrows, as if preoccupied. "That's what brought me out here," Murphy went on. "This story of a man riding a horse out in space." "Ridiculous; we have no horses in Cirgamesg." "All right, the steward won't swear to the horse. Suppose the man was up there on foot or riding a bicycle. But the steward recognized the man." "Who was this man, pray?" "The steward clammed up... The name would have been just noise to me, anyway." "I might recognize the name... "Ask him yourself. The ship's still out at the field." She shook her head slowly, holding her golden eyes on his face. "I do not care to attract the attention of either steward, sjambak -- or Sultan." Murphy said impatiently. "In any event, it's not who -- but how. How does the man breathe? Vacuum sucks a man's lungs up out of his mouth, bursts his stomach, his ears..." "We have excellent doctors," said Soek Panjoebang shuddering, "but alas! I am not one of them." M urphy looked at her sharply. Her voice held the plangent sweetness of her instrument, with additional overtones of mockery. "There must be some kind of invisible dome around him, holding in air," said Murphy. "And what if there is?" "It's something new, and if it is, I want to find out about it." Soek smiled languidly. "You are so typical an old-lander -- worried, frowning, dynamic. You should relax, cultivate napau, enjoy life as we do here in Singhalut." "What's napau?" "It's our philosophy, where we find meaning and life and beauty in every aspect of the world." "That sjambak in the cage could do with a little less napau right now." "No doubt he is unhappy," she agreed. "Unhappy! He's being tortured!" "He broke the Sultan's law. His life is no longer his own. It belongs to Singhalut. If the Sultan wishes to use it to warn other wrongdoers, the fact that the man suffers is of small interest." "If they all wear that metal ornament, how can they hope to hide out?" He glanced at her own bare bosom. "They appear by night -- slip through the streets like ghosts... She looked in turn at Murphy's loose shirt. "You will notice persons brushing up against you, feeling you," she laid her hand along his breast, "and when this happens you will know they are agents of the Sultan, because only strangers and the House may wear shirts. But now, let me sing to you -- a song from the Old Land, old Java. You will not understand the tongue, but no other words so join the voice of the gamelan,"  Murphy. "Instead of a .garden suite with a private pool, I usually sleep in a bubble-tent, with nothing to eat but condensed food." Soek Panjoebang flung the water out of her sleek black hair. "Perhaps, Weelbrrr, you will regret leaving Cirgames?" "Well," he looked up to the transparent roof, barely visible where the sunlight collected and refracted, "I don't particularly like being shut up like a bird in an aviary... Mildly claustrophobic, I guess." After breakfast, drinking thick coffee from tiny silver cups, Murphy looked long and reflectively at Soek Panjoebang. "What are you thinking, Weelbrrr?" Murphy drained his coffee. "I'm thinking that I'd better be getting to work." "And what do you do?" "First I'm going to shoot the palace, and you sitting here in the garden playing your gamelan." "But Weelbrrr -- not me!" "You're a part of the universe, rather an interesting part. Then I'll take the square..." "And the sjambak?" A quiet voice spoke from behind. "A visitor, Tuan Murphy." Murphy turned his head. "Bring him in." He looked back to Soek Panjoebang. She was on her feet. "It is necessary that I go." "When will I see you?" "Tonight -- at the Barangipan." Rube Trimmer, Tuan." Trimmer was small and middleaged, with thin shoulders and a paunch. He carried himself with a hell-raising swagger, left over from a time twenty years gone. His skin had the waxy look of lost floridity, his tuft of white hair was coarse and thin, his eyelids hung in the off-side droop that amateur physiognomists like to associate with guile. "I'm Resident Director of the Import-Export Bank," said Trimmer. "Heard you were here and thought I'd pay my respects." "I suppose you don't see many strangers." "Not too many -- there's nothing much to bring 'em. CirgamesQ isn't a comfortable tourist planet. Too confined, shut in. A man with a sensitive psyche goes nuts pretty easy here." "Yeah' said Murphy. "I was thinking the same thing this naorning. That dome begins to give a stand it? Or do they?" Trimmer pulled out a cigar case, Murphy refused the offer. "Local tobacco," aid Trimmer. "Very good." He lit up thoughtfully. "Well, you might say that the Cirgamcski are schizophrenic. They've got the docile Javanese blood, plus the Arabian elan. The Javanese part is on top, but every once in a while you see a flash of arrogance... You never know. I've been out here nine years and Fm still a stranger." He puffed on his cigar, studied Murphy with his careful eves. "You work for Know Your Universe! y I hear," "Yeah. I'm one of the leg men," "Must be a great job." "A man sees a lot of the galaxy, and he runs into queer talcs, like this sjambak stuff." Trimmer nodded without surprise. "My advice to you, Murphy, is lay off the sjambaks. They're not healthy around here." Murphy was startled by the bluntness. "What's the big mystery about these sjambaks?" Trimmer looked around the room. "This place is bugged." "I found two pick-ups and plugged 'em," said Murphy. Trimmer laughed. "Those were just plants. They hide 'em vhere a man might just barely spot 'em. You can't catch the real ones. They're woven into the cloth -- pres suresensi tive wires .' ' Murphy looked critically at the cloth walls. "Don't let it worry you," said Trimmer. "They listen more out of habit than anything else. If you're fussy we'll go for a walk." The road led past the palace into the country. Murphy and Trimmer sauntered along a placid river, overgrown with lily pads, swarming with large wLite ducks. "This sjambak business," said Murphy. "Everybody talks around it. You can't pin anybody down." "Including me," said Trimmer. "I'm more or less privileged around here. The Sultan finances his reclamation through the bank, on the basis of my reports. But there's more to Sinahalut than the Sultan." "Namely?" Trimmer w'aved his cigar waggishly. "Now w-e're getting in where I don't like to talk. I'll give you a hint. Prince Ali thinks roofing-in more valleys is a waste of money, when there's Hadras and New Batavia and Sundaman so close," "You mean -- armed conquest?" Trimmer laughed. "You said it, not me." "They can't carry on much of a war -- unless the soldiers commute bv monorail." j "Maybe Prince Ali thinks he's got the answer." "Sjambaks?" "I didn't say it," said Trimmer blandly. Murphy grinned. After a moment he said, "I picked up with a girl named Soek Panjoebang who plays the gamelan. I suppose she's working for cither the Sultan or V J Pl'ince Ali. Do you know wliich?" Tiimmer's eyes sparkled. He shook his head. "Might be either one. There's a w'ay to find out." "Yeah?" "Get her off where you're sure there's no spy-cells. Tell her two things -- one for Ali, the other for the Sultan. Whichever one reacts you know you've got her tagged." "For instance?" "Well, for instance she learns that you can rig up a hypnotic ray from a flash-light battery, a piece of bamboo, and a fewlengths of wire. That'll get Ali in an awful sweat. He can't get weapons. None at all. And for the Sultan," Trimmer was warming up to his intrigue, chewing on his cigar with gusto, "tell her you're on to a catalyst that turns clay into aluminum and oxygen in the presence of sunlight. The Sultan would sell liis right leg for something like that. He tries hard for Singhalut and Cirgamesc." "And Ali?" Trimmer hesitated. "I never said what I'm gonna say. Don't forget -- I never said it." "Okay, you never said it." "Ever hear of a jehad "Mohammedan holy wars." "Believe it or not, Ali wants a jehad" "Sounds kinda fantastic." "Sure it's fantastic. Don't forget, I never said anything about it. But V suppose someone -- strictly unofficial, of course -- let the idea percolate around the Peace Office back home," "Ah," said Murphy. "That's why you came to see me."  injured innocence, "Noy, Murphy, you're a little unfair. I'm a friendly guy. Of course I don't like to see the bank lose what we've got tied up in the Sultan." "Why don't you send in a report yourself?" "I have! But when they hear the same thing from you, a Kiioiv Your Universe! man, they might make a move." Murphy nodded. "Well, we understand each other," said Trimmer heartily, "and everything's clear." "Not entirely. How's AH going to launch a jehad when he doesn't have any weapons, no warships, no supplies?" "Now," said Trimmer, "we're getting into the realm of supposition." He paused, looked behind him. A farmer pushing a rotary tiller, bowed politely, trundled ahed. Behind was a voung man in a black turban, gold earrings, a black and red vest, white pantaloon.s, black curl-toed slippers. He bowed, started past. Trimmer held up his hand. "Don't waste your time up there : we're going back in a few minutes." "Thank you, Tuan." "Who are you reporting to? The Sultan or Prince Ali?" "The Tuan is sure to pierce the veil of my evasions. I shall not disp semble. I am the Sultan's mam" Trimmer nodded. "Now. if you'll kindly remove to about a hundred yards, where your whisper pick-up won't work." "By your leave, I go." He retreated without haste. "He's almost certainly working for Ali," said Trimmer, "Not a very subtle lie." "Oh yes -- third level. He figured I'd take it second level," "How's that again?" "Naturally I wouldn't believe him. He knew I knew that he knew it. So when he said 'Sultan', I'd think he wouldn't lie simply, but that he'd lie double -- that he actually was working for the Sultan." Murphy laughed. "Suppose he told you a fourth level lie?" "It starts to be a toss-up pretty soon," Trimmer admitted. "I don't think he gives me credit for that much subtlety... What are you doing the rest of the day?" "Taking footage. Do you know where I can find some picturesque rites? Mystical dances, human sacrifice? I've got to work up some glamor and exotic lore." "There's this sjambak in the cage. That's about as close to the medieval as you'll find anywhere in Earth Commonwealth." "Speaking of sjambaks..." "No time," said Trimmer. "Got to get back. Drop in at my office -- right down the square from the palace." suite. The shadowy figure of his room servant said, "His Highness the Sultan desires the Tuan's attendance in the Cascade Garden." "Thank you," said Murphy. "As soon as I load my camera." The Cascade Room was an ppen patio in front of an artificial waterfall. The Sultan was pacing back and forth, wearing dusty khaki puttees, brown plastic boots, a yellow polo shirt. He carried a twig which he used as a riding crop, slapping his boots as he walked. He turned his head as Murphy appeared, pointed his twig at a wicker bench. "I pray you sit down, Mr. Murphy." He paced once up and back. "How is your suite? You find it to your liking?" "Very much so." "Excellent," said the Sultan. "You do me honor with your presence." Murphy waited patiently. "I understand that you had a visitor this morning," said the Sultan. "Yes. Mr. Trimmer." "May I inquire the nature of the conversation?" "It was of a personal nature," said Murphy, rather more shortly than he meant. The Sultan nodded wistfully. "A Singhalusi would have wasted an hour telling me half-truths -- distorted enough to confuse, but not sufficiently inaccurate to anger me if I had a spy-cell on him all the time." Murphy grinned. "A Singhalusi has to live here the rest of his life." A servant wheeled a frosted cabinet before them, placed goblets under two spigots, withdrew. The Sultan cleared his throat. "Trimmer is an excellent fellow, but unbelievably loquacious." Murphy drew himself two inches of chilled rosy-pale liquor. The Sultan slapped his boots with the twig. "Undoubtedly he confided all my private business to you, or at least as much as I have allowed him to learn." "Well -- he spoke of your hope to increase the compass of Singhalut." "That, my friend, is no hope; it's absolute necessity. Our population density is fifteen hundred to the square mile. We must expand or smother. There'll be too little food to eat, too little oxygen to breathe." Murphy suddenly came to life. "I could make that idea the theme of my feature! Singhalut Dilemma: Expand or Perish!" "No, that would be inadvisable, inapplicable." Murphy was not convinced. "It sounds like a natural." The Sultan smiled. "I'll impart an item of confidential information -- although Trimmer no doubt has preceded me with it." He gave his boots an irritated whack. "To expand I need funds. Funds are best secured in an atmosphere of calm and confidence. The implication of emergency would be disastrous to my aims." "Well," said Murphy, "I see your position." The Sultan glanced at Murphy sidelong. "Anticipating your cooperation, my Minister of Propaganda has arranged an hour's program, stressing our progressive social attitude, our prosperity and financial prospects..." "But, Sultan... "Well?" "I can't allow your Minister of Propaganda to use me and Know Your Universe! as a kind of investment brochure." The Sultan nodded wearily. "I expected you to take that attitude... Well -- what do you yourself haye in mind?" 'Tve been looking for something to tie to," .said Murphy. "I think it's going to be the dramatic contrast between the ruined cities and the new domed valleys. How the Earth settlers succeeded where the ancient people failed to meet the challenge of the dissipating atmosphere." "Well," the Sultan said grudgingly, "that's not too bad." "Today I want to take some shots of the palace, the dome, the city, the paddies, groves, orchards, farms. Tomorrow I'm taking a trip out to one of the ruins." "I see," said the Sultan. "Then you won't need my charts and statistics?" "Well, Sultan, I could film the stuff your Propaganda Minister cooked up, and I could take it back to Earth. Howard Frayberg or Sam Gatlin would tear into it, rip it apart, lard in some head-hunting, a little cannibalism and temple prostitution, and you'd never know you where watching Singhalut. You'd scream with horror, and I'd be fired." "In that case," said the Sultan, "I will leave you to the dictates of your conscience." H oward frayberg looked around the gray landscape of Riker's Planet, gazed out over the roaring black Mogador Ocean. "Sam, I think there's a story out there." Sam Gatlin shivered inside his electrically heated glass overcoat. "Out on that ocean? It's full of man-eating plesiosaurs -- horrible things forty feet long." "Suppose we worked something out on the line of Moby Dick? The White Monster of the Mogador Ocean. We'd set sail in a catamaran -- " "Us?" "Naturally I wouldn't believe him. He knew I knew that he knew it. So when he said 'Sultan', I'd think he wouldn't lie simply, but that he'd lie double -- that he actually was working for the Sultan." Murphy laughed. "Suppose he told you a fourth level lie?" "It starts to be a toss-up pretty soon," Trimmer admitted. "I don't think he gives me credit for that much subtlety... What are you doing the rest of the day?" "Taking footage. Do you know where I can find some picturesque rites? Mystical dances, human sacrifice? I've got to work up some glamor and exotic lore." "There's this sjambak in the cage. That's about as close to the medieval as you'll find anywhere in Earth Commonwealth." "Speaking of sjambaks..." "No time," said Trimmer. "Got to get back. Drop in at my office -- right down the square from the palace." suite. The shadowy figure of his room servant said, "His Highness the Sultan desires the Tuan's attendance in the Cascade Garden." "Thank you," said Murphy. "As soon as I load my camera." The Cascade Room was an ppen patio in front of an artificial waterfall. The Sultan was pacing back and forth, wearing dusty khaki puttees, brown plastic boots, a yellow polo shirt. He carried a twig which he used as a riding crop, slapping his boots as he walked. He turned his head as Murphy appeared. pointed his twig at a wicker bench. "I pray you sit down, Mr. Murphy." He paced once up and back. "How is your suite? You find it to your liking?" "Very much so." "Excellent," said the Sultan. "You do me honor with your presence." Murphy waited patiently. "I understand that you had a visitor this morning," said the Sultan. "Yes. Mr. Trimmer." "May I inquire the nature of the conversation?" "It was of a personal nature," said Murphy, rather more shortly than he meant. The Sultan nodded wistfully. "A Singhalusi would have wasted an hour telling me half-truths -- distorted enough to confuse, but not sufficiently inaccurate to anger me if I had a spy-cell on him all the time." Murphy grinned. "A Singhalusi has to live here the rest of his life." A servant wheeled a frosted cabinet before them, placed goblets under two spigots, withdrew. The Sultan cleared his throat. "Trimmer is an excellent fellow, but unbelievably loquacious." Murphy drew himself two inches of chilled rosy-pale liquor. The Sultan slapped his boots with the twig. "Undoubtedly he confided all my private business to you, or at least as much as I have allowed him to learn." "Well -- he spoke of your hope to increase the compass of Singhalut." "That, my friend, is no hope; it's absolute necessity. Our population density is fifteen hundred to the square mile. We must expand or smother. There'll be too little food to eat, too little oxygen to breathe." Murphy suddenly came to life. "I could make that idea the theme of my feature! Singhalut Dilemma: Expand or Perish!" "No, that would be inadvisable, inapplicable." Murphy was not convinced. "It sounds like a natural." The Sultan smiled. "I'll impart an item of confidential information -- although Trimmer no doubt has preceded me with it." He gave his boots an irritated whack. "To expand I need funds. Funds are best secured in an atmosphere of calm and confidence. The implication of emergency would be disastrous to my aims." "Well," said Murphy, "I see your position." The Sultan glanced at Murphy sidelong. "Anticipating your cooperation, my Minister of Propaganda has arranged an hour's program, stressing our progressive social attitude, our prosperity and financial prospects..." "But, Sultan... "Well?" "I can't allow your Minister of Propaganda to use me and Know Your Universe! as a kind of investment brochure." The Sultan nodded wearily. "I expected you to take that attitude... Well -- what do you yourself have in mind?" "I've been looking for something to tie to," said Murphy. "I think it's going to be the dramatic contrast between the ruined cities and the new domed valleys. How the Earth settlers succeeded where the ancient people failed to meet the challenge of the dissipating atmosphere." "Well," the Sultan said grudgingly, "that's not too bad." "Today I want to take some shots of the palace, the dome, the city, the paddies, groves, orchards, farms. Tomorrow I'm taking a trip out to one of the ruins." "I see," said the Sultan. "Then you won't need my charts and sta-' tistics?" "Well, Sultan, I could film the stuff your Propaganda Minister cooked up, and I could take it back to Earth. Howard Frayberg or Sam Gatlin would tear into it, rip it apart, lard in some head-hunting, a little cannibalism and temple prostitution, and you'd never know you where watching Singhalut. You'd scream with horror, and I'd be fired." "In that case," said the Sultan, "I will leave you to the dictates of your conscience." around the gray landscape of Riker's Planet, gazed out over the roaring black Mogador Ocean. "Sam, I think there's a story out there." Sam Gatlin shivered inside his electrically heated glass overcoat. "Out on that ocean? It's full of man-eating plesiosaurs -- horrible things forty feet long." "Suppose we worked somSthing out on the line of Moby Dick? The White Monster of the Mogador Ocean. We'd set sail in a catamaran -- " "Us?" "No," said Frayberg impatiently. "Of course not us. Two or three of the staff. They'd sail out there, look over these gray and red monsters, maybe fake a fight or two, but all the time they're after the legendary white one. How's it sound?" "I don't think we pay our men enough money." "Wilbur Murphy might do it. ing a horse up to meet his spaceships." "He might draw the line at a white plesiosaur riding up to meet his catamaran." Frayberg turned away. "Somebody's got to have ideas around here..." "We'd better head back to the space-port," said Gatlin. "We got two hours to make the Sirgamesk shuttle." Barangipan, watching marionettes performing to xylophone, Castanet, gong and gamelan. The drama had its roots in proto-historic Mohenjo-Dar#. It had filtered down through ancient India, medieval Burma, Malaya, across the Straits of Malacca to Sumatra and Java; from modern Java across space to CirgamesQ, five thousand years of time, two hundred lightyears of space. Somewhere along the route it had met and assimilated modern technology. Magnetic beams controlled arms, legs and bodies, guided the poses and posturings. The manipulator's face, by agency of clip, wire, radio control and minuscule selsyn, projected his scowl, smile, sneer or grimace to the peaked little face he controlled. The language was that of Old Java, which perhaps a third of the spectators understood. This portion did not include Murphy, and when the performance ended he was no wiser than at the start. Soek Panjoebang slipped into the seat beside Murphy. She wore musician's garb: a sarong of brown, blue, and black batik, and a fantastic headdress of tiny silver bells. She greeted him with enthusiasm. "Weelbrrr! I saw you watching..." "It was very interesting." "Ah, yes." She sighed. "Weelbrrr, you take me with you back to Earth? You make me a great picturama star, please, Weelbrrr?" "Well, I don't know about that." "I behave very well, Weelbrrr." She nuzzled his shoulder, looked soulfully up with her shiny yellowhazel eyes. Murphy nearly forgot the experiment he intended to perform. "What did you do today, Weelbrrr? You look at all the pretty girls?" "Nope. I ran footage. Got the palace, climbed the ridge up to the condensation vanes. I never knew there was so much water in the air till I saw the stream pouring off thosp vanes! And hot" "We have much sunlight; it makes the rice grow." "The Sultan ought to put some of that excess light to work. There's a secret process... Well, I'd better not say." "Oh come, Weelbrrr! Tell me your secrets!" "It's not much of a secret. Just a catalyst that separates clay into aluminum and oxygen when sunlight shines on it." Soek's eyebrows rose, poised in place like a seagull riding the wind. "Weelbrrr! I did not know you for a man of learning!" "Oh, you thought I was just a bum, eh? Good enough to make picturama stars out of gamelan players, but no special genius... "No, no, Weelbrrr." "I know lots of tricks. I can take a flashlight battery, a piece of copper foil, a few transistors and bamboo tube and turn out a paralyzer gun that'll stop a man cold in his tracks. And you know how much it costs?" "No, Weelbrrr. How much?" "Ten cents. It wears out after two or three months, but what's the difference? I make 'em as a hobby -- turn out two or three an hour." "Weelbrrr! You're a man of marvels! Hello! We will drink!" And Murphy settled back in the wicker chair, sipping his rice beer. I into a space-suit, and ride out to the ruins in the plain. Ghatamipol, I think they're called. Like to come?" "No, Weelbrrr." Soek Panjoebang looked off into the garden, her hands busy tucking a flower into her hair. A few minutes later she said, "Why must you waste your time among the rocks? There are better things to do and see. And it might well be -- dangerous." She murmured the last word offhandedly. "Danger? From the sjambaks?" "Yes, perhaps." "The Sultan's giving me a guard. Twenty men wiffi crossbows." "The sjambaks carry shields." "Why should they risk their lives attacking me?" Soek Panjoebang shrugged. After a moment she rose to her feet. "Goodbye, Weelbrrr." "Goodbye? Isn't this rather abrupt? Won't I see you tonight?" "If so be Allah's will." Murphy looked after the lithe swaying figure. She paused, plucked a yellow flower, looked over her shoulder. Her eyes, yellow as the flower, lucent as waterjewels, held his. Her face was utterly expressionless. She turned, tossed away the flower with a jaunty gesture, and continued, her shoulders swinging. Murphy breathed deeply. She might have made picturama at that... One hour later he met his escort at the valley gate. They were dressed in space-suits for the plains, twenty men with sullen faces. The trip to Ghatamipol clearly was not to their liking. Murphy climbed into his own suit, checked the oxygen pressure gauge, the seal at his collar. "All ready, boys?" No one spoke. The silence drew out. The gatekeeper, on hand to let the party out, snickered. "They're all ready, Tuan." "Well," said Murphy, "let's go then." Outside the gate Murphy made a second check of his equipment. No leaks in his suit. Inside pressure : #. Outside pressure; zero. His twenty guards morosely inspected their crossbows and slim swords. The white ruins of Ghatamipol lay five miles across Pharasang Plain. The horizon was clear, the sun was high, the sky was black. Murphy's radio hummed. Someone said sharply, "Look! There it goes!" He wheeled around; his guards had halted, and were pointing. He saw a fleet something vanishing into the distance. "Let's go," said Murphy. "There's nothing out there." "Sjambak." "'Well, there's only one of them." "Where one walks, others follow." "That's why the twenty of you are here." "It is madness! Challenging the sjambaks!" "What is gained?" another argued. "I'll be the judge of that," said Murphy, and set off along the plain. The warriors reluctantly followed, muttering to each other over their radio intercoms. T he eroded city walls rose above them, occupied more and more of the sky. The platoon leader said in an angry voice, "We have gone far enough." "You're under my orders," said Murphy. "We're going through the gate." He punched the button on his camera and passed under the monstrous portal. The city was frailer stuff than the wall, and had succumbed to the thin storms which had raged a million years after the passing of life. Murphy marvelled at the scope of the ruins. Virgin archaeological territory! No telling what a few weeks digging might turn up. Murphy considered his expense account. Shifkin was the obstacle. There'd be tremendous prestige and publicity for Know Your Universe! if Murphy uncovered a tomb, a library, works of art. The Sultan would gladly provide diggers. They were a sturdy enough people; they could make quite a showing in a week, if they were able to put aside their superstitions, fears and dreads. Murphy sized one of them up from the comer of his eye. He sat on a sunny slab of rock, and if he felt uneasy he concealed it quite successfully. In fact, thought Murphy, he appeared completely relaxed. Maybe the problem of securing diggers was a minor one after all... And here was an odd sidelight on the Singhalusi character. Once clear of the valley the man openly wore his shirt, a fine loose garment of electric blue, in defiance of the Sultan's edict. Of course out here he might be cold... Murphy felt his own skin crawling. How could he be cold? How could he be alive? Where was his space-suit? He lounged on the rock, grinning sardonically at Murphy. He wore heavy sandals, a black turban, loose breeches, the blue shirt. Nothing more. Where were the others? Murphy turned a feverish glance over his shoulder. A good three miles distant, bounding and leaping toward Singhalut, were twenty desperate figures. They all wore space-suits. This man here... A sjambak? A wizard? A hallucination? feet, strode springily toward Murphy. He carried a crossbow and a sword, like those of Murphy's fleet-footed guards. But he wore no space-suit. Could there be breathy able traces of an atmosphere? Murphy glanced at his gauge. Outside pressure: zero. Two other men appeared, moving with long elastic steps. Their eyes were bright, their faces flushed. They came up to Murphy, took his arm. They were solid, corporeal. They had no invisible force fields around their heads. Murphy jerked his arm free. "Let go of me, damn it!" But they certainly couldn't hear him through the vacuum. He glanced over his shoulder. The first man held his naked blade a foot or two behind Murphy's bulging space-suit. Murphy made no further resistance. He punched the button on his camera to automatic. It would now run for several hours, recording one hundred pictures per second, a thousand to the inch. The sjambaks led Murphy two hundred yards to a metal door. They opened it, pushed Murphy inside, banged it shut. Murphy felt the vibration through his shoes, heard a gradually waxing hum. His gauge showed an outside pressure of #, #, #, #, #. An inner door opened. Hands pulled Murphy in, undamped his dome. "Just what's going on here?" demanded Murphy angrily. Prince Ali-Tomas pointed to a table. Murphy saw a flashlight battery, aluminum foil, wire, a transistor kit, metal tubing, tools, a few other odds and ends. "There it is," said Prince AliTomas. "Get to work. Let's see one of these paralysis weapons you boast of." "Just like that, eh?" "Just like that." "What do you want 'em for?" "Does it matter?" "I'd like to know." Murphy was conscious of his camera, recording sight, sound, odor. "I lead an army," said Ali-Tomas, "but they march without weapons. Give me weapons! I will carry the word to Hadra, to New Batavia, to Sundaman, to BoengBohdt!" "How? Why?" "It is enough that I will it. Again, I beg of you..." He indicated the table. Murphy laughed. "I've got myself in a fine mess. Suppose I don't make this weapon for you?" "You'll remain until you do, under increasingly difficult conditions." "I'll be here a long time." "If such is the case," said AliTomas, "we must make our arrangements for your care on a longterm basis." Ali made a gesture. Hands seized Murphy's shoulders. A respirator was held to his nostrils. He thought of his camera, and he could have laughed. Mystery! Excitement! Thrills! Dramatic sequence for Know Your Universe! Staff-man murdered by fanatics! The crime recorded on his own camera! See the blood, hear his death-rattle, smell the poison! The vapor choked him. What a break! What a sequence! Frayberg, "bigger and brighter every minute." "It must've been just about in here," said Gatlin, "that Wilbur's horseback rider appeared." "That's right! Steward!" "Yes, sir?" "We're about twenty thousand miles out, aren't we?" "About fifteen thousand, sir." "Sidereal Cavalry! What an idea! I wonder how Wilbur's making out on his superstition angle?" Sam Gatlin, watching out the window, said in a tight voice, "Why not ask him yourself?" "Eh?" "Ask him for yourself! There he is -- outside, riding some kind of critter..." "It's a ghost," whispered Frayberg. "A man without a spacesuit... There's no such thing!" "He sees us... Look. , ." Murphy was staring at them, and his surprise seemed equal to their own. He waved his hand. Gatlin gingerly waved back. Said Frayberg, "That's not a horse he's riding. It's a combination ram-jet and kiddie car with stirrups!" "He's coming aboard the ship," said Gatlin. "That's the entrance port down there... captain's stateroom, taking careful breaths of air. "How are you now?" asked Frayberg. "Fine. A little sore in the lungs." "I shouldn't wonder," the ship's doctor growled. "I never saw anything like it." "How does it feel out there, Wilbur?" Gatlin asked. "It feels awful lonesome and empty. And the breath seeping up out of your lungs, never going in -- that's a funny feeling. And you miss the air blowing on your skin. I never realized it before. Air feels like -- like silk, like whipped cream -- it's got texture..." "But aren't you cold? Space is supposed to be absolute zero!" "Space is nothing. It's not hot and it's not cold. When you're in the sunlight you get warm. It's better in the shade. You don't lose any heat by air convection, but radiation and sweat evaporation keep you comfortably cool." "I still can't understand it," said Frayberg. "This Prince Ali, he's a kind of a rebel, eh?" "I don't blame him in a way. A normal man living under those domes has to let off steam somehow. Prince Ali decided to go out crusading. I think he would have made it too -- at least on Girgames." "Certainly there are many more men inside the domes..." "When it comes to fighting," said Murphy, "a sjambak can lick twenty men in spacesuits. A little nick doesn't hurt him, but a little nick bursts open a spacesuit, and the man inside comes apart." "Well," said the Captain. "I imagine the Peace Office will send out a team to put things in order now." Gatlin asked, "What happened when you woke up from the chloroform?" "Well, nothing very miKh. I felt this attachment on my chest, but didn't think much about it. Still kinda woozy. I was halfway through decompression. They keep a man there eight hours, drop pressure on him two pounds an hour, nice and slow so he don't get the bends." "Was this the same place they took you, when you met Ali?" "Yeah, that was their decompression chamber. They had to make a sjambak out of me; there wasn't anywhere else they could keep me. Well, pretty soon my head cleared, and I saw this apparatus stuck to my chest." He poked at the mechanism on the table. "I saw the oxygen tank, I saw the blood running dirough the plastic pipes -- blue from me to that carburetor arrangement, red on the way back in -- and I figured out the whole arrangement. Carbon dioxide still exhales up through your lungs, but the vein back to the left auricle is routed through the carburetor and supercharged with oxygen. A man doesn't need to breathe. The carburetor flushes his blood with oxygen, the decompression tank adjusts him to the lack of air-pressure. There's only one thing to look out for; that's not to touch anything with your naked flesh. If it's in the sunshine it's blazing hot; if it's in the shade it's cold enough to cut. Otherwise you're free as a bird." "But -- how did you get away?" "I saw those little rocket-bikes, and began figuring. I couldn't go back to Singhalut; I'd be lynched on sight as a sjambak. I couldn't fly to another planet -- the bikes don't carry enough fuel. "I knew when the ship would be coming in, so I figured I'd fly up to meet it. I told the guard I was going outside a minute, and I got on one of the rocket-bikes. There was nothing much to it." "Well," said Frayberg, "it's a great feature, Wilbur -- a great film! Maybe we can stretch it into two hours." "There's one thing bothering me," said Gatlin. "Who did the steward see up here the first time?" Murphy shrugged. "It might have been somebody up here skylarking. A little too much oxygen and you start cutting all kinds of capers. Or it might have been someone who decided he had enough crusading. "There's a sjambak in a cage, right in the middle of Singhalut. Prince Ali walks past; they look at each other eye to eye. Ali smiles a little and walks on. Suppose this sjambak tried to escape to the ship. He's taken aboard, turned over to the Sultan and the Sultan makes an example of him..." "What'll the Sultan do to Ali?" Murphy shook his head. "If I were Ali I'd disappear." A loudspeaker turned on. "Attention all passengers. We have just passed through quarantine. Passengers may now disembark. Important: no weapons or explosives allowed on Singhalut!" "This is where I came in," said Murphy. There's no such thing as a weapon too horrible to use; weapons will continue to become bigger, and deadlier. Like other things that can't be stopped... By H. B. Fyfe dome of the colossal command ship just beyond Pluto, every nervous clearing of a throat rasped through the silence. Telescopes were available but most of the scientists and high officials preferred the view on the huge telescreen. This showed, from a distance of small moons of the frigid planet, so insignificant that it had not been discovered until man had pushed the boundaries of space exploration past the asteroids. The satellite was about to become spectacularly significant, however, as the first target of man's newest, most destructive weapon. "I need not remind you, gentlemen," white-haired Co-ordinator Evora of Mars had said, "that if we have actually succeeded in this race against our former Centaurian colonies, it may well prevent the imminent conflict entirely. In a few moments we shall know whether our scientists have developed a truly irresistible weapon." Of all the officials, soldiers, and scientists present, Arnold Gibson was perhaps the least excited. For one thing, he had labored hard to make the new horror succeed and felt reasonably confident that it would. The project had been given the attention of every first class scientific mind in the Solar System ; for the great fear was that the new states on the Centaurian planets might win the race of discovery and... And bring a little order into this old-fashioned, inefficient fumbling toward progress, Gibson thought contemptuously. Look at them -- fools for all their degrees and titles! They've stumbled on something with possibilities beyond their confused powers of application. A gasp rustled through the chamber, followed by an even more awed silence than had preceded the unbelievable, ultra-rapid action on the telescreen. Gibson permitted himself a tight smile of satisfaction. Now my work really begins, he reflected. A few quick steps brought him to Dr. Haas, director of the project, just before the less stunned observers surrounded that gentleman, babbling questions. "I'll start collecting the Number Three string of recorders," he reported. "All right, Arnold," agreed Haas. "Tell the others to get their ships out too. I'll be busy here." Not half as busy as you will be in about a day, thought Gibson, heading for the spaceship berths. signed the recording machines drifting in space at the greatest distance from the command ship. The others would assume that he needed more time to locate and retrieve the apparatus -- which would give him a head start toward Alpha Centauri. His ship was not large, but it was powerful and versatile to cope with any emergency that may have been encountered during the dangerous tests. Gibson watched his instruments carefully for signs of pursuit miles between himself and the command ship. Then he eased his craft into subspace drive and relaxed his vigilance. He returned to normal space many "days" later in the vicinity of Alpha Centauri. They may have attempted to follow him for all he knew, but it hardly mattered by then. He broadcast the recognition signal he had been given to memorize long ago, when he had volunteered his services to the new states. Then he headed for the capital planet, Nessus. Long before reaching it, he acquired a lowering escort of warcraft, but he was permitted to land. "Well, well, it's young Gibson!" the Chairman of Nessus greeted him, after the newcomer had passed through the exhaustive screening designed to protect the elaborate underground headquarters. "I trust you have news for us, my boy. Watch outside the door, Colonel!" One of the ostentatiously armed guards stepped outside and closed the door as Gibson greeted the obese man sitting across the buttonstudded expanse of desk. The scientist was under no illusion as to the vagueness of the title "Chairman." He was facing the absolute power of the Centaurian planets -- which, in a few months' time, would be the same as saying the ruler of all the human race in both systems. Gibson's file must have been available on the Chairman's desk telescreen within minutes of the reception of his recognition signal. He felt a thrill of admiration for the efficiency of the new states and their system of government. He made it his business to report briefly and accurately, trusting that the plain facts of his feat would attract suitable recognition. They did. Chairman Diamond's sharp blue eyes glinted out of the fat mask of his features. "Well done, my boy!" he grunted, with a joviality he did not bother trying to make sound overly sincere. "So they have it! You must see our men immediately, and point out where they have gone wrong. You may leave it to me to decide who has gone wrong!" voluntarily before reminding himself that he had seen the correct answer proved before his eyes. He had stood there and watched -- more, he had worked with them all his adult life -- and he was the last whom the muddled fools would have suspected. The officer outside the door, Colonel Korman, was recalled and given orders to escort Gibson to the secret state laboratories. He glanced briefly at the scientist when they had been let out through the complicated system of safeguards. "We have to go to the second moon," he said expressionlessly. "Better sleep all you can on the way. Once you're there, the Chairman will be impatient for results!" Gibson was glad, after they had landed on the satellite, that he had taken the advice. He was led from one underground lab to another, to compare Centaurian developments with Solarian. Finally, Colonel Korman appeared to extricate him, giving curt answers to such researchers as still had questions. "Whew! Glad you got me out!" Gibson thanked him. "They've been picking my brain for two days straight!" "I hope you can stay awake," retorted Korman with no outward sign of sympathy. "If you think you can't, say so now. I'll have them give you another shot. The Chairman is calling on the telescreen." Gibson straightened. Jealous snob! he thought. Typical military fathead, and he knows I amount to more than any little colonel now. I was smart enough to fool all the so-called brains of the Solar System. "I'll stay awake," he said shortly. Chairman Diamond's shiny features appeared on the screen soon after Korman reported his charge ready. "Speak freely," he ordered Gibson. "This beam is so tight and scrambled that no prying jackass could even tell that it is communication. Have you set us straight?" "Yes, Your Excellency," replied Gibson. "I merely pointed out which of several methods the Solarians got to yield results. Your -- our scientists were working on all possibilities, so it would have been only a matter of time." "Which you have saved us," said Chairman Diamond. His ice-blue eyes glinted again. "I wish I could have seen the faces of Haas and Coordinator Evora, and the rest. You fooled them completely!" Gibson glowed at the rare praise. "I dislike bragging. Your Excellency," he said, "but they are fools. I might very well have found the answer without them, once they had collected the data. My success shows what intelligence, well-directed after the manner of the new states of Centauri, can accomplish against inefficiency." The Chairman's expression, masked by the fat of his face, nevertheless approached a smile. "So you would say that you -- one of our sympathizers -- were actually the most intelligent worker they had?" He'll have his little joke, thought Gibson, and I'll let him put it over. Then, even that sour colonel will laugh with us, and the Chairman will hint about what post I'll get as a reward. I wouldn't mind being in charge -- old Haas' opposite number at this end. "I think I might indeed be permitted to boast of that much ability. Your Excellency," he answered, putting on what he hoped was an expectant smile. "Although, considering the Solarians, that is not saying much." The little joke did not develop precisely as anticipated. "Unfortunately," Chairman Diamond said, maintaining his smile throughout, "wisdom should never be confused with intelligence." G ibson waited, feeling his own smile stiffen as he wondered what could be going wrong. Surely, they could not doubt his loyalty! A hasty glance at Colonel Korman revealed no expression on the military facade affected by that gentleman. "For if wisdom were completely synonymous with intelligence," the obese Chairman continued, relishing his exposition, "you would be a rival to myself, and consequently would be -- disposed of -- anyway!" Such a tingle shot up Gibson's spine that he was sure he must have jumped. "Anyway?" he repeated huskily. His mouth suddenly seemed dry. Chairman Diamond smiled out of the telescreen, so broadly that Gibson was unpleasantly affected by the sight of his small, gleaming, white teeth. "Put it this way," he suggested suavely. "Your highly trained mind observed, correlated, and memorized the most iiitricate data and mathematics, meanwhile guiding your social relations with your former colleagues so as to remain unsuspected while stealing their most cherished secret. Such a feat demonstrates ability and intelligence." Gibson tried to lick his lips, and could not, despite the seeming fairness of the words. He sensed a pulsing undercurrent of cruelty and cynicism. "On the other hand," the mellow voice flowed on, "having received the information, being able to u.se it effectively now without you, and knowing that you betrayed once -- I shall simply discard you like an old message blank. That is an act of wisdom. "Had you chosen your course more wisely," he added, "your position might be stronger." By the time Arnold Gibson regained his voice, the Centaurian autocrat was already giving instructions to Colonel Korman. The scientist strove to interrupt, to attract the ruler's attention even momentarily. Neither paid him any heed, until he shouted and tried frenziedly to shove the soldier from in front of the telescreen. Korman backhanded him across the throat without looking around, with such force that Gibson staggered back and fell. He lay, half-choking, grasping his throat with both hands until he could breathe. The colonel continued discussing his extinction without emotion. "... so if Your Excellency agrees, I would prefer taking him back to Nessus first, for the sake of the morale factor here. Some of them are so addled now at having been caught chasing up wrong alleys that they can hardly work." Apparently the Chairman agreed, for the screen was blank when the colonel reached down and hauled Gibson to his feet. "Now, listen to me carefully!" he said, emphasizing his order with a ringing slap across Gibson's face. "I shall walk behind you with my blaster drawn. If you make a false move, I shall not kill you." Gibson stared at him, holding his bleeding mouth. "It will be much worse," Korman went on woodenly. "Imagine what it will be like to have both feet charred to the bone. You would have to crawl the rest of the way to the ship; I certainly would not consider carrying you!" In a nightmarish daze, Gibson obeyed the cold directions, and walked slowly along the underground corridors of the Centaurian research laboratories. He prayed desperately that someone -- anyone -- might come along. Anybody who could possibly be used to create a diversion, or to be pushed into Korman and his deadly blaster. The halls remained deserted, possibly by arrangement. Maybe I'd better wait till we reach his ship, Gibson thought. I ought to he able to figure a way before we reach Nessus. I had the brains to fool Haas and... He winced, recalling Chairman Diamond's theory of the difference between intelligence and wisdom. The obscene swine! he screamed silently. Colonel Korman grunted warningly, and Gibson took the indicated turn. They entered the spaceship from an underground chamber, and Gibson learned the reason for his executioner's assurance when the latter chained him to one of the pneumatic acceleration seats. The chain was fragile in appearance, but he knew he would not be free to move until Korman so desired. More of their insane brand of cleverness! he reflected. That's the sort of thing they do succeed in thinking of. They're all crazy! Why did I ever... But he shrank from the question he feared to answer. To drag out into the open his petty, selfish reasons, shorn of the tinsel glamor of so-called "service" and "progress," would be too painful. A fter the first series of accelerations, he roused himself from his beaten stupor enough to note that Korman was taking a strange course for reaching Nessus. Then, entirely too close to 'the planet and its satellites to ensure (Continued on page #) A grim tale of a future in which everyone is desperate to escape reality, and a hero who wants to have his wine and drink it, too. OU Wine By Richard O. Lewis self more comfortably in his easy chair, extended his short legs further toward the fireplace, and let his eyes travel cautiously in the general direction of his wife. She was in her chair as usual, her long legs curled up beneath her, the upper half of her face hidden in the bulk of her personalized, three-dimensional telovis. The telovis, of a stereoscopic nature, seemingly brought the performers with all their tinsel and color directly into the room of the watcher. Hyrel had no way of seeing into the plastic affair she wore, but he guessed from the expression on the lower half of her face that she was watching one of the newer blackmarket sex-operas. In any event, there would be no sound, movement, or sign of life from her for the next three hours. To break the thread of the play for even a moment would ruin all the previous emotional build-up. There had been a time when he hated her for those long and silent evenings, lonely hours during which he was completely ignored. It was different now, however, for those hours furnished him with time for an escape of his own. His lips curled into a tight smile and his right hand fondled the unobtrusive switch beneath his trouser leg. He did not press the switch. He would wait a few minutes longer. But it was comforting to know that it was there, exhilarating to know that he could escape for a few hours by a mere flick of his finger. He let his eyes stray to the dim light of the artificial flames in the fireplace. His hate for her was not bounded merely by those lonely hours she had forced upon him. No, it was far more encompassing. He hated her with a deep, burning savagery that was deadly in its passion. He hated her for her money, the money she kept securely from him. He hated her for the paltry allowance she doled out to him, as if he were an irresponsible child. It was as if she were constantly reminding him in every glance and gesture, "I made a bad bargain when I married you. You wanted me, my money, everything, and had nothing to give in return except your own doltish self. You set a trap for me, baited with lies and a false front. Now you are caught in your own trap and will remain there like a mouse to eat from my hand whatever crumbs I stoop to give you." But some day his hate would be appeased. Yes, some day soon he would kill her! He shot a sideways glance at her, wondering if by chance she suspected... She hadn't moved. Her lips were pouted into a half smile; the sex-opera had probably reached one of its more pleasurable moments. Hyrel let his eyes shift back to the fireplace again. Yes, he would kill her. Then he would claim a rightful share of her money, be rid of her debasing dominance. H e let the thought run around through his head, savoring it with mental taste buds. He would not kill her tonight. No, nor the next night. He would wait, wait until he had sucked the last measure of pleasure from the thought. It was like having a bottle of rare old wine on a shelf where it could be viewed daily. It was like being able to pause again and again before the bottle, hold it up to the light, and say to it, "Some day, when my desire for you has reached the ultimate, I shall unstopper you quietly and sip you slowly to the last soul-satisfying drop." As long as the bottle remained there upon the shelf it was symbolic of that pleasurable moment... He snapped out of his reverie and realized he had been wasting precious moments. There would be time enough tomorrow for gloating. Tonight, there were other things to do. Pleasurable things. He remembered the girl he had met the night before, and smiled smugly. Perhaps she would be awaiting him eVen now. If not, there would be another one... He settled himself deeper into the chair, glanced once more at his wife, then let his head lean comfortably back against the chair's headrest. His hand upon his thigh felt the thin mesh that cloaked his body beneath his clothing like a sheer stocking. His fingers went again to the tiny switch. Again he hesitated. Herbert Hyrel knew no more about the telporter suit he wore than he did about the radio in the corner, the TV set against the wall, or the personalized telovis his wife was wearing. You pressed one of the buttons on the radio; music came out. You pressed a button and clicked a dial on the TV ; music and pictures came out. You pressed a button and made an adjustment on the telovis; three diitiensional, emotion-colored pictures leaped into the room. You pressed a tiny switch on the telporter suit ; you were whisked away to a receiving set you had previously set up in secret. He knew that the music and the Images of the performers on the Tv and telovis were brought to his room by some form of electrical impulse or wave while the actual musicians and performers remained in the studio. He knew that when he pressed the switch on his thigh something within him -- his ectoplasm, higher self, the thing spirits use for materialization, whatever its real name -- streamed out of him along an invisible channel, leaving his body behind in the chair in a conscious but dream-like state. His other self materialized in a small cabin in a hidden nook between a highway and a river where he had installed the receiving set a month ago. He thought once more of the girl who might be waiting for him, smiled, and pressed the switch. was chill to Herbert Hyrel's naked flesh. He fumbled through the darkness for the clothing he kept there, found his shorts and trousers, got hurriedly into them, then flicked on a pocket lighter and ignited a stub of candle upon the table. By the wavering light, he finished dressing in the black satin clothing, the white shirt, the flowing necktie and tarn. He invoiced the contents of his billfold. Not much. And his monthly pittance was still two weeks away... He had skimped for six months to salvage enough money from his allowance to make a down payment on the telporter suit. Since then, his expenses -- monthly payments for the suit, cabin rent, costly liquor -- had forced him to place his nights of escape on strict ration. He could not go on this way, he realized. Not now. Not since he had met the girl.